35:US	49355567	RX6OWUF8EFZ72	0060820810	774905491	The Stranger House	Books	5	27	28	N	N	PART ENGLISH HISTORY...PART ENGLISH MYSTERY...	This is a marvelous and beautifully realized work of fiction. As someone who enjoys mysteries, as well as historical fiction and gothic novels of suspense, I was quite taken with this book. Intricately plotted, the book is clever in its premise. Two disparate human beings, a highly independent, red-headed slip of a woman, Samantha Flood, Australian by birth, and a serious, fervently religious Spaniard, Miguel Madero, who is half-English, find themselves thrust together, as each explores the tiny, remote Cumbrian village of Illthwaite in England, looking for answers to their individual quests.  Both are in Illthwaite to get information relative to that which each is seeking. Both are staying in the local inn, called The Stranger House.<br /><br />Samantha is a brilliant but brash mathematician in her early twenties. Fondly known as Sam to her friends, she is interested in tracing her familial roots. She has recently discovered that her paternal grandmother was from this part of the world,  having been a part of a huge number of children migrants that had been unceremoniously shipped from England to other parts of its Empire, including Australia. Samantha is interested in finding out more about her paternal grandmother and the mystery surrounding her.<br /><br />Miguel, or Mig, as he is known to his family and friends, is the scion of a well-known house of vintners in Spain and is in his late twenties. He is a former seminarian who has suffered from manifestations of what he believes to be stigmata. He also, on occasion, sees ghostly manifestations or visions. Recovering from a serious alpine accident that nearly killed him, he is now in Illthwaite ostensibly to do research  for his thesis on the experience of English Catholics during the Reformation. He is, however, actually in Illthwaite to find out more about an ancestor of his who mysteriously disappeared there centuries ago during the reign of Queen Elizabeth I.<br /><br />In Illthwaite, Both Sam and Mig find themselves up against obstacles placed in their way. It seems that its residents are not totally forthcoming or are reluctant to part with information relative to their respective quests. What they each individually discover is that things are not always as they seem in Illthwaite.  Moreover, their divergent interests are more intertwined than they could ever have imagined. They will discover that they have more in common than they realized, having come full circle in a cosmic design not of their making.<br /><br />This book has well-drawn characters that come alive under the author's expert hand. The plot is unusual, as well as complex, containing many layers that the discerning reader will enjoy exploring. Well-written, as well as intricately plotted, this book crosses a number of genres. With its supernatural portents, historical underpinnings, underlying mystery, as well as its gothic type  suspense and sensibilities, infused with just a dollop of  romance, this book will appeal to those readers who favor these genres. In particular, I found the parts of the book that transcended into historical fiction to be the most compelling. This is not a book for everyone, but to  those for whom its themes have inherent appeal, it is a book to be relished.mselves up against obstacles placed in their way. It seems that its residents are not totally forthcoming or are reluctant to part with information relative to their respective quests. What they each individually discover is that things are not always as they seem in Illthwaite.  Moreover, their divergent interests are more intertwined than they could ever have imagined. They will discover that they have more in common than they realized, having come full circle in a cosmic design not of their making.<br /><br />This book has well-drawn characters that come alive under the author's expert hand. The plot is unusual, as well as complex, containing many layers that the discerning reader will enjoy exploring. Well-written, as well as intricately plotted, this book crosses a number of genres. With its supernatural portents, historical underpinnings, underlying mystery, as well as its gothic type  suspense and sensibilities, infused with just a dollop of  romance, this book will appeal to those readers who favor these genres. In particular, I found the parts of the book that transcended into historical fiction to be the most compelling. This is not a book for everyone, but to  those for whom its themes have inherent appeal, it is a book to be relished.	2005-10-14
6141:US	49355567	RT0FC28XG5U6F	8535900705	405213649	No Coração do Mar: a História Real que Inspirou Moby Dick de Melville	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A WHALE OF A TALE...	This is the Portuguese text edition of \\"In the Heart of the Sea\\",  a first rate, well crafted work of non-fiction. The author has a gift for putting together a compelling narrative about the unusual ordeal of the whale ship, Essex, which sailed out of Nantucket and was done in on the high seas by an extremely aggressive sperm whale who attacked it. So complete was the damage that the ship sank, its crew of twenty cast adrift upon a seemingly infinite ocean to find their way back home in three small boats. This real life, unheard of attack by a whale was the basis for Herman Melville's classic work of fiction, \\"Moby Dick\\".<br /><br />What the author does is ground what happened to these most unfortunate of men in the historical context of the time. He paints a picture of the milieu in which they lived. Their lives were governed entirely by the whaling industry that was the bread and butter for Nantucket Island, the whaling capital of the world.<br /><br />Drawing upon narratives by some of the survivors, as well as other historical data, he paints in intricate detail what life must have been like for these men. He weaves a tapestry of early nineteenth century life on the island of Nantucket and the preeminence of whaling in the lives of those who lived there, as well as the role of the Quakers. In essence, he brings the men, who were involved in this most notorious of survival at sea stories, to life for the reader.<br /><br />It is a balanced narrative. This was to be the first voyage as Captain for the democratic George Pollard, who was teamed up with a very aggressive and ambitious first mate, Owen Chase. This was later to prove to be a poor combination. Nearly a third of the crew was African-American, which was an interesting twist, arising out of the abolitionist views of the Quakers, whose views were the mainstay of Nantucket. Most of the crew was very young, the cabin boy, Thomas Nickerson, being but fourteen years of age.<br /><br />When the Essex was attacked while on the high seas by a gigantic, aggressive sperm whale and destroyed in the process, the story of the what happened to the crew makes for one of the most engrossing and amazing stories of survival ever to be told. Against the odds, eight of them survived their ordeal, which lasted for months. Dehydration and starvation were to drive them to  a new frontier of human behavior. That threshold, however, once crossed, was one that would forever haunt those who survived. Their agonizing journey and foray into anthropophagy is chillingly chronicled.<br /><br />This is a riveting and triumphant book. It is a tale richly told by a masterful storyteller, who is able to make this work of non-fiction come to life for the reader. This is simply a great book.d while on the high seas by a gigantic, aggressive sperm whale and destroyed in the process, the story of the what happened to the crew makes for one of the most engrossing and amazing stories of survival ever to be told. Against the odds, eight of them survived their ordeal, which lasted for months. Dehydration and starvation were to drive them to  a new frontier of human behavior. That threshold, however, once crossed, was one that would forever haunt those who survived. Their agonizing journey and foray into anthropophagy is chillingly chronicled.<br /><br />This is a riveting and triumphant book. It is a tale richly told by a masterful storyteller, who is able to make this work of non-fiction come to life for the reader. This is simply a great book.	2005-10-10
7373:US	49355567	R3T7Q9759IOEKX	2742729046	345157902	Le Médecin personnel du roi	Books	5	0	0	N	N	SOMETHING IS ROTTEN IN THE STATE OF DENMARK...	Having read \\"Lost Queen\\" by Norah Lofts, which book was a work of historical fiction that covered much of the same story told by this author, there could not be two books more different, though both are riveting. The major difference is in the writing style. The book by Ms. Lofts is superlative and tells an interesting, intriguing, though somewhat superficial story about the love triangle consisting of the mad king of Denmark, Christian VII, his wife, Queen Caroline Mathilde, and the royal physician, Johann Struensee. This author, on the other hand, rips the reader's guts out with its angst filled, staccato telling of the same story. It is a more literary book than that of Ms. Lofts and compelling in its own way, a beautifully written work of historical fiction that will keep the reader riveted to its pages until the very end.<br /><br />It, too, tells the story of Princess Caroline Mathilde of England, sister to King George III. At the age of fifteen she was wed to young King Christian VII, who eventually became known as the mad king of Denmark. Temperamental, high strung, and given to strange outbursts, his predilection for odd behavior was known early on, but despite this the two kingdoms would still see these two wed, as the unification of England and Denmark was more important than individual happiness.<br /><br />King Christian VII was a truly pitiable figure who had survived a childhood fueled by rank cruelty and was easy prey for the sycophants of the Danish court. He developed a peculiar aversion to his wife and, consequently, had conjugal relations with her only once, which propitiously resulted in the birth of a son nine months later. Alone in a foreign country, whose language she was only beginning to learn, and estranged from a King surrounded by sycophants, the young queen gravitated to the one person who treated her as a person in her own right, the King's physician, Johann Struensee.<br /><br />An advocate of the philosophy of Enlightenment that was overtaking Europe, the idealistic Struensee had many ideas that were introduced as reforms in Denmark, through his influence with the King, who by now was easily led, since his madness left a void in leadership that Struensee was all to happy to fill. These reforms were to make many enemies for him, as they upset the established feudal system that still existed in eighteenth century Denmark. As he gained power through his influence, resentment against him grew within those circles that had formerly been close to the King. Unaware of the growing animosity against him and lacking political canniness, Struensee and the Queen became close intimates, bound by shared ideas and interests.<br /><br />Struensee's relationship with the Queen, who was lonely and starved for affection, eventually transgressed the bounds set by propriety. Now lovers in fact, their relationship became grist for the rumor mill. She even gave birth to a daughter who the King acknowledged as his own but who was actually Stuensee's. As gossip and innuendo about their relationship swirled across royal circles in Europe, it ultimately became the focal point for a political coup that saw them both arrested and charged with treason. It was a relationship that was to have great personal and political ramifications for the protagonists, as well as for Denmark. What ultimately happened to each of them was tragic, governed as it was by the initial reluctance of the Danes to give up their feudal system. Even those whom Struensee championed through his reforms, the peasant class, turned against him in the end.<br /><br />This is the French text edition of \\"The Royal Physician's Visit\\", a richly atmospheric work of historical fiction, filled with political intrigue, historical personages and events, shadowed by darkness and a palpable sorrow apparent in each and every one of its pages. It is as if the individual psyche of each of the protagonists were driving the book, giving it texture, shadings, and glimpsesinto the psyche of those involved in this high drama. It is an angst filled, almost surreal, rendering of lives that were to come together and leave a mark on the world, making for a story that to this day has the power to captivate the reader. Bravo!into the psyche of those involved in this high drama. It is an angst filled, almost surreal, rendering of lives that were to come together and leave a mark on the world, making for a story that to this day has the power to captivate the reader. Bravo!	2005-10-10
7674:US	49355567	R1RQSF15Y24IDW	078591966X	443679824	Assurances Sur la Mort	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A KILLER PLOT...	This book, more novella than novel, is the French text edition of \\"Double Indemnity\\", an intricately plotted, very quick read . Wholly plot-driven, the book is a classic morality tale. A seductive woman, Phyllis Nirdlinger, desires to kill her wealthy husband. An otherwise intelligent insurance agent, Walter Huff,  falls under her spell. Together they put together a seemingly failsafe plan to do the dastardly deed, making it appear as if it were an accident, so that the double indemnity clause in an insurance policy will kick into play. The problem is that all is not as it initially seems.<br /><br />Written as a first person narrative by the insurance agent, the writing is tight, spare, and lean. No word is wasted. Yet, the minimalism works to the advantage of the story, as it makes the intricacy of the plotting clear to the reader. Having seen the film with Fred MacMurray and Barbara Stanwyck in the lead roles, I kept hearing Fred MacMurray's voice in my head as I read the book. While the film deviates from the book in a number of ways, it is classic film noir at its best and well-worth viewing. Likewise, the book is a classic in its own right, and those who like hard-boiled crime fiction will not be disappointed.	2005-10-10
7946:US	49355567	R3SSVEDCK3KIO8	B0007EFKLS	412606618	The good earth (Pocket books)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A PROFOUND TALE SIMPLY TOLD...	This 1932 Pulitzer Prize winning novel is still a standout today. Deceptive in its simplicity, it is a story built around a flawed human being and a teetering socio-economic system, as well as one that is layered with profound themes. The cadence of the author's writing is also of note, as it rhythmically lends itself to the telling of the story, giving it a very distinct voice. No doubt the author's writing style was influenced by her own immersion in Chinese culture, as she grew up and lived in China, the daughter of missionaries.<br /><br />This is the story of the cyclical nature of life, of the passions and desires that motivate a human being, of good and evil, and of the desire to survive and thrive against great odds. It begins with the story of an illiterate, poor, peasant farmer, Wang Lung, who ventures from the rural countryside and goes to town to the great house of Hwang to obtain a bride from those among the rank of slave. There, he is given the slave O-lan as his bride.<br /><br />Selfless, hardworking, and a bearer of sons, the plain-faced O-lan supports Wang Lung's veneration of the land and his desire to acquire more land. She stays with him through thick and thin, through famine and very lean times, working alongside him on the land, making great sacrifices, and raising his children. As a family, they weather the tumultuousness of pre-revolutionary China in the 1920s, only to find themselves the recipient of riches beyond their dreams. At the first opportunity, they buy land from the great house of Hwang, whose expenses appear to be exceeding their income.<br /><br />With the passing of time, Wang Lung buys more and more land from the house of Hwang, until he owns it all, as his veneration of the land is always paramount. With O-lan at this side, his family continues to prosper. His life becomes more complicated, however, the richer he gets. Wang Lung then commits a life-changing act that pierces O-lan's heart in the most profoundly heartbreaking way.<br /><br />As the years pass, his sons become educated and literate, and the family continues to prosper. With the great house of Hwang on the skids, an opportunity to buy their house, the very same house from where he had fetched O-lan many years ago, becomes available. Pressed upon to buy that house by his sons, who do not share Wang Lung's veneration for the land and rural life, he buys the house. The country mice now have become city mice.<br /><br />This is a potent, thematically complex story, brimming with irony, yet simply told against a framework of mounting social change. It is a story that stands as a parable in many ways and is one that certainly should be read. It illustrates the timeless dichotomy between the young and the old, the old and the new, and the rich and the poor. It is no wonder that this beautifully written book won a Pulitzer Prize and is considered a classic masterpiece. Bravo!ay.<br /><br />As the years pass, his sons become educated and literate, and the family continues to prosper. With the great house of Hwang on the skids, an opportunity to buy their house, the very same house from where he had fetched O-lan many years ago, becomes available. Pressed upon to buy that house by his sons, who do not share Wang Lung's veneration for the land and rural life, he buys the house. The country mice now have become city mice.<br /><br />This is a potent, thematically complex story, brimming with irony, yet simply told against a framework of mounting social change. It is a story that stands as a parable in many ways and is one that certainly should be read. It illustrates the timeless dichotomy between the young and the old, the old and the new, and the rich and the poor. It is no wonder that this beautifully written book won a Pulitzer Prize and is considered a classic masterpiece. Bravo!	2005-10-09
7990:US	49355567	R2ZIYAGUCESL29	1597371394	584095688	My Ántonia (Classic Collection (Brilliance Audio))	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A TIMELESS CLASSIC	I first read this book when I was in junior high school. I admit that, at the time, I did not appreciate the strengths of the book and the quality of its writing. I am quite glad that I decided to give it another chance, as, having re-read it,  I now understand why it is considered to be a classic in literature. It is simply a beautifully written book, covering many of the themes that one stumbles across in life and coalescing them into a work of extraordinary breadth.<br /><br />The book is the story of two young people, Jim Burden and Antonia Shimerda. They meet for the first time when Jim is ten years old and Antonia is fourteen. Recently orphaned, Jim has moved to the Great Prairie to live with his grandparents in Nebraska. Antonia, on the other hand, has been wrenched from her homeland in Bohemia, emigrating with her parents to the United States and finding herself in Nebraska. Jim and Antonia's chance encounter on a train sets the stage for the forging of a friendship and unconditional love that time will not diminish.<br /><br />The book relates the harshness of immigrant life through the eyes of Jim, who narrates the events contained in the book. There is a relentless stoicism about the book, which is written in spare, clear prose. With intense imagery and descriptive exactitude, late nineteenth century Nebraska comes to life. It also relates the paths that each of the characters choose to follow, as well as the vicissitudes of life that mold and shape them in ways that no one would have imagined.<br /><br />The focus of the book, which is also a coming of age tale, seems to be on the female characters and their strengths. All the women in it seem to be survivors, despite the hardships that they encounter. This is, without a doubt, a life affirming book, wrought with great feeling and a decided sense of time and place. Yet, despite its poignancy, the book is surprisingly unsentimental and straightforward. It is a testament to the author's literary talent that this book has emerged as a timeless classic. Bravo!t this book has emerged as a timeless classic. Bravo!	2005-10-09
8435:US	49355567	R2A8MJOFGAG3KE	B000BAWO5I	385174541	Portrait of Jennie	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	A HAUNTING STORY...	This book, first published in 1940, was adapted to film in 1948, which film starred Joseph Cotton and Jennifer Jones. I was sufficiently intrigued by the film, so as to want to read the book upon which the film was based but was surprised to discover, however,  that the book is more of a novella, as it runs a scant one hundred and twenty-five pages in length. While not lengthy, it is, nonetheless, a haunting story, although it differs is some respects from the film.<br /><br />The book tells the story of a young, struggling artist in New York named Eben Adams, who is really little more than a hack. One winter night in 1938, a down and out Eben is in Central Park, having been  unsuccessful in selling his paintings. There, he encounters a very young girl named Jennie Appleton, who is mysteriously in the park by herself, playing hopscotch. Thus, begins Eben's acquaintance with Jennie.<br /><br />Eben sketches a picture of Jennie, which to his surprise, he is able to sell. Periodically, Jennie begins appearing in his life at odd times, always swathed in mystery as to her origins and always appearing somehow older than expected each time he sees her.  Eben continues to sketch her, finding that he can sell those sketches with ease. Inspired by his muse, he paints her portrait, a masterpiece that eventually lands in the Metropolitan Museum of Art.<br /><br />He is puzzled, nonetheless, by the anomaly and mystery that surrounds Jennie, who has an air of being from another time.  Yet,  an unusual bond is developing between them, one that not even the vagaries of time can break. It is also one that becomes increasingly romantic over time, as Jennie quickly grows into womanhood. The fates, however, Eben finds, can be cruel.<br /><br />Those who enjoy romantic stories with supernatural portents will very much enjoy this haunting tale of two star crossed individuals.	2005-10-09
8543:US	49355567	RM4ITP6GAQPBB	B0007HHUWC	59773996	The daughter of time	Books	5	0	0	N	N	PART ENGLISH HISTORY...PART ENGLISH MYSTERY...	This is a wonderful genre bending book...part mystery, part history. Written by Scotswoman Elizabeth MacIntosh, who wrote under the pen name Josephine Tey, it was first published in 1951. It is tragic that the author died in 1952 and was never to know the pleasure that this book would bring to generations of readers and that the Mystery Writers of America would ultimately rank it fourth among the one hundred best mysteries ever written.<br /><br />The title of the book is derived from a historical source, as it is attributable to Sir Francis Bacon, \\"For truth is rightly named after the daughter of time, and not of authority.\\" The book itself is not a traditional mystery but rather an application of deductive reasoning to an actual historical event. The event in question is the murder of the princes in the tower, sons of King Edward IV, allegedly by their uncle, Richard III, who eventually usurped the English throne after the death of his brother. It has been widely held that Richard III did, indeed, murder the two young princes, his nephews, in order to secure his claim to the throne.<br /><br />The reader is introduced to Scotland Yard Inspector Alan Grant, who is hospitalized and recovering from injuries sustained in the line of duty. While convalescing, he becomes intrigued by a picture of a portrait of Richard III, a likeness with which he is unfamiliar. Grant is puzzled that someone with such a sensitive face could have been such a monster as to murder his two nephews in cold blood. So, our intrepid Inspector decides that he will reconsider the evidence upon which such a dastardly assumption has been based. With the help of an American researcher doing the necessary legwork, Grant compiles enough archival historical fact that incrementally helps him formulate a new theory as to who actually may have murdered the princes in the tower.<br /><br />This analysis and reformulation is done as though it were being argued to a jury. Indeed, so persuasive is Inspector Grant through the application of some insightful deductive reasoning and clever dialogue that the reader comes away thinking that Grant has solved one of the most intriguing historical mysteries of all time. This is certainly an unusual book conceptually but one that succeeds brilliantly. It should appeal to those readers who enjoy having a mystery unraveled, as well as to those who harbor a love of English history. Bravo!rant through the application of some insightful deductive reasoning and clever dialogue that the reader comes away thinking that Grant has solved one of the most intriguing historical mysteries of all time. This is certainly an unusual book conceptually but one that succeeds brilliantly. It should appeal to those readers who enjoy having a mystery unraveled, as well as to those who harbor a love of English history. Bravo!	2005-10-09
8556:US	49355567	R21GUR55464BEU	0606340181	693064101	Flores Para Algernon/flowers for Algernon (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	PROFOUNDLY MOVING AND THOUGHT PROVOKING...	This is the Spanish text edition of a wonderful and highly original novel, \\"Flowers for Algernon\\", which is  about a mentally challenged man named Charlie who wanted to be smart. One day, his wish was granted. A group of scientists selected him for an experimental operation that raised his intelligence to genius level. Suddenly, Charlie found himself transformed, and life, as he knew it, changed.<br /><br />His story is told entirely through Charlie's eyes and perceptions in the form of progress reports. The reader actually sees the change in Charlie take place, as his progress reports become more complex, well written, and filled with the angst of personal discovery and growth, as well as with his gradual awareness of his amazing and accelerated intellectual development.<br /><br />The progress reports are a wonderful contrivance for facilitating the story, and the reader is one with Charlie on his voyage of self-discovery. What happens to Charlie in the long run is profoundly moving and thought provoking. It is no wonder that this author was the recipient of the Nebula Award which is given by the Science Fiction Writers of America for having written the Best Novel of the Year. This is definitely a book well worth reading.	2005-10-09
8601:US	49355567	R2IRPTJ7YBJ2O	2226134034	504666896	Nanny, Journal D'Une Baby-Sitter (Romans, Nouvelles, Recits (Domaine Etranger)) (English and French Edition)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING...	This is the French text edition of a book that I had originally thought was going to be a work of non-fiction in a nanny tell all. It turned out, instead, to be a mildly funny look at the rich and obnoxious and their young children through the eyes of a spineless nanny. While some of this book is amusing, it is not particularly well written. It is the kind of book you read once, and then promptly forget. It is not a bad book, as it is somewhat entertaining. What this book really represents is what happens when a book grabs the attention of the media. It becomes a best seller. Long after the dust settles, I anticipate that this book will be to the publishing world, what a one hit wonder is to the music industry.<br /><br />This work of fiction provides caricatures of selfish, self-absorbed, wealthy parents and a peek into the life of their overly-structured and overly-managed offspring. The nanny in question is also a caricature, as she struggles to be appear good hearted, but in the end is just a spineless jellyfish who goes along with the program, no matter how offensive she may find her employers and their demands to be. The nanny tries to come across as an underprivileged, put upon employee, but is, in reality, part of the problem, as she is certainly not a part of the solution. She is an upper middle class young woman who attends a prestigious university. She is hardly one of the hoi polloi, no matter how much she may empathize with those who are truly at the mercy of employers such as the ones found in this book. As social satire this book falls short. Borrow it from the library. Do not bother to buy it, as it is a one note book. If you feel that you must buy it, do yourself a favor and buy the paperback, as it is not a book that you would want to keep. It is a quick, throwaway read.	2005-10-09
8944:US	49355567	R2MM7BZOBTRZU6	B0007I1X5Q	801828201	The other America: poverty in U.S	Books	4	1	1	N	N	THE POOR ARE WITH YOU ALWAYS...	This is the seminal work on the poor in America, analyzed within the context of government proffered, anti-poverty programs. It is a scathing critique and analysis of the war on poverty, where bold rhetoric and political grandstanding have often supplanted action. The author in his analysis categorizes poverty as a cultural and often institutional way of life that would require radical innovations, social planning, and long term financial investment, were the government really serious about eradicating poverty in America. What is amazing is that the arguments made by the author, when he wrote this book forty years ago, are still sound today.	2005-10-09
9108:US	49355567	R2T7DXM2D8O5CT	0812415019	399926886	Alive: The Story of the Andes Survivors (Avon Nonfiction)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	I GET BY WITH A LITTLE HELP FROM MY FRIENDS...	Time has not diminished the drama of the tale of the Uruguayan rugby team whose plane crashed in the Andes Mountains. Of the forty five people on the plane at the time of the crash, sixteen came down from the mountain about seventy days later with a saga of survival not easily forgotten.<br /><br />Theirs is a journey born of tragedy and human endurance. The author unfolds a tale that is gripping in the telling, as enthralling as it is almost unbelievable. It is investigative reporting at its best, because it does not fail to convey the human drama and pathos behind the story of this remarkable struggle for survival high up in the Andes Mountains. Masterfully written, it is a well balanced narrative that takes great pains to ground the experience of the survivors in the context out of which it arose.<br /><br />The plane had crashed in the Andes Mountains on Argentinian territory. It was an exercise in terror for those on the plane, as it barreled down the mountain, before finally coming to rest in a valley of snow high up in the Andes. Of the forty five persons on board, thirty two had initially survived the crash. Some, however, had sustained serious injuries. Time would not be their friend. Moreover, with little warm clothing (keep in mind that October is springtime in South America), the survivors were exposed to the extreme cold of the night air, high up in the Andes. Though spring, this still meant temperatures well below freezing. Damp, cold, and hungry, amid the anguished cries of the injured, thus began the first of many such nights.<br /><br />By their tenth day in the Andes, the limited food supplies, which they had rationed with all the care of a miser, had virtually run out. Starving and ravenously hungry, they voiced what they all knew to be true, but had not dared to voice before. They must eat, or they would die. The only thing left for them to eat, however, was abhorrent and deeply repugnant to them. Digging deep into their conservative, religious souls, they found a way to justify actions that would have them transcend a new reality. Their fallen comrades would now provide the means of their sustenance. All eventually succumbed to this only means of survival.<br /><br />This, while one of the most dramatic parts of their story, is just that, a part. Their survival entailed much more. They had to endure other deprivations. They had to survive the elements. They had to overcome a profound despair over being seemingly forgotten by the outside world. Ultimately, only sixteen were able to do so. How they did so will fascinate all readers of adventure literature. The means that they took to let the world know that they were still alive will astound even the most jaded of readers. It is an account of human endurance that is thought provoking and compelling, a quest to reconcile physical needs with the spiritual. It is, above all, a riveting testament to life.ouls, they found a way to justify actions that would have them transcend a new reality. Their fallen comrades would now provide the means of their sustenance. All eventually succumbed to this only means of survival.<br /><br />This, while one of the most dramatic parts of their story, is just that, a part. Their survival entailed much more. They had to endure other deprivations. They had to survive the elements. They had to overcome a profound despair over being seemingly forgotten by the outside world. Ultimately, only sixteen were able to do so. How they did so will fascinate all readers of adventure literature. The means that they took to let the world know that they were still alive will astound even the most jaded of readers. It is an account of human endurance that is thought provoking and compelling, a quest to reconcile physical needs with the spiritual. It is, above all, a riveting testament to life.	2005-10-09
9161:US	49355567	R2W8I846XDD9LZ	9871144334	799167340	El Perfume (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A DAZZLING AND COMPELLING NOVEL...	This is a beautifully written novel. Ingenious in its conception and carefully crafted, the author has created a unique and dazzling work of fiction. Divided into three parts, the book tells the story of a most unusual life, that of Jean-Baptiste Grenouille.<br /><br />The first part of the book establishes that he was born to a woman who was hung from a gibbet for having left him to die. It turns out that Jean-Baptiste is an unusual baby. He gives people the willies, because, unlike most babies, Jean-Baptiste has no scent.<br /><br />Over time, Jean-Baptiste develops into a boy with a secret gift. His olfactory sense is developed to a degree unheard of in humans. He delights in parsing the odors around him. Ugly, friendless, and a loner, he eventually ventures into the city of Paris, a malodorous and pungent cornucopia of smells. Believe me, there is plenty to sniff out in eighteenth century Paris! Jean-Baptiste savors each whiff, and the book conveys these olfactory delights with meticulous, descriptive precision.<br /><br />His bleak existence is transformed, however, when he one day captures a heady scent of such exquisite beauty that he finds himself obsessed with it. Determined to have that scent at all costs, he eventually sniffs it out. It turns out to be the scent of a young virgin on the cusp of flowering into a woman. It is a scent that he must possess. What he does to do so will surely chill the reader.<br /><br />Jean-Baptiste eventually maneuvers to get himself apprenticed to a perfumer, so that he can have the opportunity to learn the trade and create scents. He leads a bleak existence, subsisting as little more than a slave to the perfumer for whom he works.<br /><br />The second part of the book begins when Jean-Baptiste leave his employer and goes on a personal pilgrimage, leading an austere existence away from civilization for many years. There, he withdraws into himself even further, living a totally self-sustaining, hermitic existence. He ultimately realizes what other have sensed about him. Jean-Baptiste has no personal scent. He simply does not smell.<br /><br />With this knowledge, he returns to civilization where, having lived as practically an animal for many years, he creates a fictitious and adventurous scenario to account for his filthy and disgusting appearance. Subsequently, he is taken under the wing of some local nobility and feted and pampered. Realizing the importance of scent, he creates a personal scent for himself. He now realizes that he who has the power over scent can rule supreme. He intends to do so.<br /><br />The third part of the book has Jean-Baptiste migrating to a town that is the hub for the scent trade. Perfumes, oils, and soaps are the stock in trade for this town and, as such, beckon brightly to Jean-Baptiste. Once there, he again smells a scent so delectable that he longs to possess it. He knows that scent for what it is and now knows that it is the scent, and not the personal charms of its bearer, that captures the attention and devotion of others. Jean Baptiste wants to harness that scent at all costs. He desperately desires the power to make others love him. He wants to be supreme.<br /><br />It is his desperate desire to harness and possess that celestial scent that causes Jean-Baptiste, a socio-path with little empathy for others, to prey upon the maidens of the town in order to obtain that which he needs. It is his obsession that lays at the heart of the vortex that arises in the town, as murder after murder occurs. Yet, no one suspects him. What ultimately happens leads to an almost unbelievable climax, when Jean-Baptiste finds himself consumed by the passion he has managed to arouse in others through scent.<br /><br />This is a heady, quirky, and compelling debut novel, like nothing I have ever before read. Complex and lyrical in its telling, it is a novel that stays with the reader long after the last page is turned. Bravo!tely realizes what other have sensed about him. Jean-Baptiste has no personal scent. He simply does not smell.<br /><br />With this knowledge, he returns to civilization where, having lived as practically an animal for many years, he creates a fictitious and adventurous scenario to account for his filthy and disgusting appearance. Subsequently, he is taken under the wing of some local nobility and feted and pampered. Realizing the importance of scent, he creates a personal scent for himself. He now realizes that he who has the power over scent can rule supreme. He intends to do so.<br /><br />The third part of the book has Jean-Baptiste migrating to a town that is the hub for the scent trade. Perfumes, oils, and soaps are the stock in trade for this town and, as such, beckon brightly to Jean-Baptiste. Once there, he again smells a scent so delectable that he longs to possess it. He knows that scent for what it is and now knows that it is the scent, and not the personal charms of its bearer, that captures the attention and devotion of others. Jean Baptiste wants to harness that scent at all costs. He desperately desires the power to make others love him. He wants to be supreme.<br /><br />It is his desperate desire to harness and possess that celestial scent that causes Jean-Baptiste, a socio-path with little empathy for others, to prey upon the maidens of the town in order to obtain that which he needs. It is his obsession that lays at the heart of the vortex that arises in the town, as murder after murder occurs. Yet, no one suspects him. What ultimately happens leads to an almost unbelievable climax, when Jean-Baptiste finds himself consumed by the passion he has managed to arouse in others through scent.<br /><br />This is a heady, quirky, and compelling debut novel, like nothing I have ever before read. Complex and lyrical in its telling, it is a novel that stays with the reader long after the last page is turned. Bravo!	2005-10-09
9164:US	49355567	RVI1U1FKOMRI9	2253933716	827160417	La Traversee (La Saga Des Emigrants, Tome 2) (Ldp Bibl Romans) (French Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	THE SWEDISH OCCUPATION OF MINNESOTA...	This is the French text edition of an epic work by its Swedish author. Translated from Swedish into English, this beautifully written book of historical fiction was first published in 1954 and met with excellent reviews at the time. It is the second part of a four part opus, the first of which is \\"The Emigrants\\". This book, \\"Unto a Good Land\\", is followed by two additional books, \\"The Settlers\\" and \\"Last Letter From Home\\".<br /><br />In the first volume, \\"The Emigrants\\", the author detailed the emigration of a Swedish family to the New World, grounding it in the reasons for the exodus of so many Swedes from their mother country in the middle of the 19th century. The focus of the first book in this four part opus is on the family, relatives, and friends of Karl Oscar Nilsson, a peasant farmer who unceasingly worked his farm, only to find that, no matter what he did, he could not progress and would continue to live on the cusp of total poverty. The focus of the first book is on their life in Sweden. Gathering up his family and friends of the family, the Nilsson family decides to take the monumental step of making a fresh start by emigrating to the new world, specifically the United States of America.<br /><br />The second volume, \\"Unto a Good Land\\", focuses on the arrival of the Nilsson family and friends in the United States of America. It details their journey from New York, a journey that was to take them across the Midwest by rail, steamer, and foot to arrive in the wilds of what would one day be the State of Minnesota. It is in this wilderness that the Nilsson family and friends would homestead and struggle to make a new home. The author regales the reader with the travails this hardy group of settlers would encounter in their efforts to create by the sweat of their brow a new home in the wilderness. The early struggles of the Nilsson family to succeed in what was an unknown frontier is engagingly chronicled. I have enjoyed the first and second volumes so much that I look forward to continuing their journey with them by reading the remaining two volumes. This is a book that those who love historical fiction will greatly enjoy.at I look forward to continuing their journey with them by reading the remaining two volumes. This is a book that those who love historical fiction will greatly enjoy.	2005-10-09
9431:US	49355567	R2UB2P4TS5L1FT	060627622X	378345448	Secret Life of Bees	Books	5	1	3	N	Y	THE MADONNA AS QUEEN BEE...	This New York Times best selling novel is a beautifully written, coming of age story, set in rural South Carolina in 1964 against the back drop of the civil rights movement. It is the touching story of a young white girl, fourteen year old Lily Owens, whose mother died in a tragic accident when Lily was about four. Lily lives with her father, a harsh man with whom no love is lost, on a peach farm outside Sylvan, South Carolina. Her mother's death stands between them.<br /><br />Neglected by her father, Lily is brought up by Rosaleen, a big-hearted black woman, who loves Lily and whom Lily loves. Yet, hers is a lonely existence, compounded by her unquenched thirst for information about her mother, Deborah. All she has left of her mother are some cloudy memories and a box containing a few mementos, among them a picture of a Black Madonna, inscribed with the words, \\"Tiburon, S.C.\\"<br /><br />When Rosaleen goes into town to register to vote, she feels empowered by the passing of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and has a run-in with the town's three biggest racists, resulting in Rosaleen being taken into custody. Lily arranges for her to break free. Together, they seek sanctuary in Tiburon, South Carolina, where Lily discovers the mystery of the Black Madonna.<br /><br />Taken in by a trio of middle-aged black women who are sisters, as well as beekeepers, Lily is introduced to the secret life of bees and begins to learn some important life lessons. She also learns something about her mother and finds love where she least expected.<br /><br />This is simply a beautifully realized novel, written in a true Southern voice by a wonderful writer with a story to tell. It is little wonder that this compelling book has received so many accolades. It is a stunning fiction debut by the author.	2005-10-09
9461:US	49355567	R2GYLU4NUEHKEU	074323815X	592016606	21 Dog Years: A Cube Dweller's Tale	Books	1	26	56	N	Y	WITLESS DRIVEL...	I bought this book, thinking that it would offer some insight into Amazon.com in terms of what it was like to work there during its halcyon days.  Touted as a funny memoir, among other things, I was to discover that it was none of what was promised. In fact, the book was painfully difficult to read, as it was very poorly written, decidedly not funny, and offered little insight into what it really was like to work at Amazon. It was totally sophomoric in terms of what it did say.<br /><br />The author should be thankful that he was not fired by Amazon, as that is what he richly deserved to have happen based upon his own account of what he was like as an employee. He was a total  slacker who treated customers with the contempt that he felt that they deserved. He was totally wasteful of the company's resources. He proudly stole supplies in bulk from the company. When toys were given to him for review purposes, he not only did not bother to review them, he then refused to return the toys to Amazon. He may think that all this is hilarious. Unfortunately, I do not. Reading this drivel felt like it took twenty-one dog years.<br /><br />Moreover, this book was so poorly written, I am surprised that a reputable publisher went ahead with the expense of actually publishing it. Don't waste your time with this drivel. If you want to read a well-written, interesting book about working at Amazon, read \\"Amazonia: Five Years at the Epicenter of the Dot. Com Juggernaut\\" by James Marcus.	2005-10-09
14822:US	49355567	R3VYCJ8X73GR9V	B0008A0SWM	16111957	Ordeal by hunger: The story of the Donner party (Armed Services edition)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	SURVIVAL AND CANNABILISM IN THE SIERRA MOUNTAINS...	This book presents an account of the Donner Party, a wagon train of about eighty-seven people who in July 1846 started off for California via a new, untried route through the Sierras. Unfortunately, this particular wagon train of pioneers would go down in history due to the horror and tragedy that it was to meet along its way. Stranded in the Sierras amidst its harshest winter in years, with unparalleled snowfall and frigid temperatures, only little more than half, mostly women and children, were to survive their unbelievable deprivation and suffering.<br /><br />This wagon train was a loose confederation of strangers who originally were part of another wagon train, but who collectively branched off by consensus to try a new, though untried and unproven, overland route through the Sierras that was alleged to be shorter. Their decision to take this new route was one that would haunt them for the rest of their journey, as it was not what it was purported to be. The inexperience of these travelers, the poor decisions that were sometimes made, and their seeming inability to truly unify as one entity contributed to their ultimate debacle. They were, after all, representative of humanity at large. Some of them were good, brave, and unselfish. Some were people with whom one would not wish to shake hands.<br /><br />Beleaguered by thirst as they trekked across a desert, marauded by Indians along the way, plagued by the loss of necessary oxen and cattle, beset by accidents and personal squabbles that would sometimes turn deadly, they would finally reach the Sierras and begin their perilous crossing, only to find themselves snowbound at the summit while within sight of the pass that they needed to cross to be home free. Trapped by the weather in early November, they would set up a make-shift camp, never thinking about just how long their encampment would last. With minimal food supplies at their disposal, these intrepid, westward-ho emigrants would find themselves trapped for months, facing incredible hardships that would tax them beyond human endurance. Some would resort to cannibalism in order to survive.<br /><br />This is a riveting story about survival of the fittest, about personal sacrifice, and human foibles. It is a story not only of those ill-fated pioneers but of those who would attempt to rescue them, often at great personal cost. It is a story that reflects the human spirit, both good and bad, in time of crisis. It is a story of often selfless heroism. It is also a story of greed and craven opportunism. While some of the book is politically incorrect, it is reflective of the times in which these pioneers lived, as well as that of when this book was first written.<br /><br />It is, however, remiss that the maps included in this book do little to illustrate the deadly journey undertaken by these pioneers. Still, the lack of comprehensive maps does not unduly detract from the powerful impact that this story has on the reader. Those who enjoy tales of survival will, undoubtedly, find this gripping tale well worth reading.months, facing incredible hardships that would tax them beyond human endurance. Some would resort to cannibalism in order to survive.<br /><br />This is a riveting story about survival of the fittest, about personal sacrifice, and human foibles. It is a story not only of those ill-fated pioneers but of those who would attempt to rescue them, often at great personal cost. It is a story that reflects the human spirit, both good and bad, in time of crisis. It is a story of often selfless heroism. It is also a story of greed and craven opportunism. While some of the book is politically incorrect, it is reflective of the times in which these pioneers lived, as well as that of when this book was first written.<br /><br />It is, however, remiss that the maps included in this book do little to illustrate the deadly journey undertaken by these pioneers. Still, the lack of comprehensive maps does not unduly detract from the powerful impact that this story has on the reader. Those who enjoy tales of survival will, undoubtedly, find this gripping tale well worth reading.	2005-10-05
27554:US	49355567	R3HC9T26IYG8VD	0719561779	772203017	Heat and Dust	Books	4	1	1	N	N	THE HEAT OF THE ROMANCE...THE DUST OF ITS ASHES...	This is a well-written book that explores Anglo-Indian relations through the power of romance. Set in two distinct eras, colonial India of the nineteen twenties, during the time of the Raj, and the independent, freewheeling India of the seventies, during the time when India was a mecca for disenfranchised youth, it tells the story of two women.<br /><br />One story is that of Olivia, the wife of a minor district official in colonial India, who in 1923 caused great scandal by running off with the Nawab, a local Indian prince. Divorced by her husband, Douglas, for this scandalous transgression, Olivia remains in India, while Douglas remarries. The second story is that of the narrator, a descendant of Douglas and his second wife. During the nineteen seventies, fascinated by the story of the now deceased Olivia, she goes to India, visiting those locations where Olivia had lived and those that would have been a part of her existence at the time. As did Olivia, she falls under India's spell. As did Olivia, she, too, has an Anglo-Indian love affair, and picks up where Olivia left off, giving the reader a powerful sense of de-ja vu.<br /><br />The book is a beguiling story of two women from two different generations who come under the spell of India. The book is evocative of British colonial India, as well as of India of the nineteen seventies. During both eras, Anglo-Indian relations are pivotal to the budding romances. The book is evocative of the rhythms of Indian life in all its richness and tumultuousness, as well as its lingering poverty and superstitions. It is redolent of a time gone by and hopeful of what is to come. It is also an interesting dichotomy of the good and bad in both cultures, Anglo and Indian, and the influence that both cultures have on these two women, who are so different, yet so alike.<br /><br />This is a book that whets the appetite, leaving the reader wanting more than the author is prepared to give. It is, nonetheless, a book well worth reading. The book was also made into a Merchant Ivory film starring Julie Christie and Greta Scacchi that is well worth watching.g. The book was also made into a Merchant Ivory film starring Julie Christie and Greta Scacchi that is well worth watching.	2005-09-28
31475:US	49355567	RXNW1KLOCH7Q9	0739454595	829325009	Velocity	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A PAGE-TURNING THRILL RIDE OF TERROR AND SUSPENSE...	Once I started this book, the plot grabbed me right from the beginning and would not let go. Even though it is a plot driven book, the main character is well developed, even though others, perhaps, are not. It makes no difference, however, as it is the intricate, tightly constructed plot that will grab the reader. This is quintessential Koontz at his best, producing a riveting page-turner, once again.<br /><br />Billy Wiles is a formerly promising writer turned barkeep. He has experienced a goodly amount of tragedy in his life. Orphaned at fourteen, he is haunted by the unusual circumstances surrounding the death of his parents. He is also devoted to his fiancee, Barbara, who lies in a comatose state in a nursing home, the victim of the fickle finger of fate. She has been given little hope of recovery. While Billy appears to be an easygoing, hardworking regular Joe, he goes through life with despair etched in the very way that he lives.<br /><br />One night, however, a pivotal event occurs that will forever change Billy's life. A note is left under the windshield wipers of his car. The note gives him a most unusual ultimatum. It tells him that if he does not take the note to the police, securing their involvement, \\"a lovely blonde schoolteacher from the Napa Valley\\" will be murdered. The note also conversely tells Billy that if he does take the note to the police, \\"an elderly woman active in charity work\\" will, instead, be murdered. These are the two choices for which Billy has been given six hours to decide.<br /><br />What Billy chooses to do and what follows are the stuff of which nightmares are made. Suddenly, Billy's formerly quiet, prosaic life takes on a new dimension, one in which reality is suspended, as the first note is followed by a series of them. Each note ups the ante, leaving Billy with having to make choices no human being should have to make. The ingenious plot takes the reader on a thrill ride of terror and suspense.<br /><br />This was a book that I could not put down, so intriguing, original, and mesmerizing was the plot. Fans of the author, as well as those of Stephen King, should find much to like about this brilliantly plotted, fast-paced book, which puts a new spin on the age old struggle between good and evil. Written by a master storyteller at the top of his game, the book should keep the enthralled reader turning the pages, until the very last one has been turned. This is, without a doubt, one of the author's best books.t I could not put down, so intriguing, original, and mesmerizing was the plot. Fans of the author, as well as those of Stephen King, should find much to like about this brilliantly plotted, fast-paced book, which puts a new spin on the age old struggle between good and evil. Written by a master storyteller at the top of his game, the book should keep the enthralled reader turning the pages, until the very last one has been turned. This is, without a doubt, one of the author's best books.	2005-09-26
31750:US	49355567	R1EHFENBF62BX4	3257228244	237654854	Astas Tagebuch.	Books	5	0	0	N	N	SOME SECRETS ARE WORTH TELLING...	This is the German text edition of \\"Asta's Book\\", a beautifully written, well nuanced novel of mystery and suspense that seamlessly moves between the past and the present. The past is told through the diaries of a Danish immigrant named Asta, who went to live in Edwardian England with her husband, Rasmus, and two young sons at the turn of the century. Settling down in East London in 1905, her loveless marriage and loneliness drove Asta to keep a journal of her innermost thoughts and experiences.<br /><br />Though married to a man who spent a great deal of time away from home on business and with whom she seemed to have little in common, Asta added two more children to her family, daughters, Swanny, her favorite, and Maria, the youngest. Asta's lyrically written journals would chronicle of her life, her struggles as an immigrant, her hopes and dreams, and her adoration of Swanny. They would also tantalizingly hint at a secret that would, ultimately, impact on her daughter, Swanny, later in life.<br /><br />Over seventy years later, those diaries, all forty nine of them, would be discovered and become a publishing sensation and a bestseller. Within its many pages would lie the missing pieces to a turn of the century murder mystery and the leads to the whereabouts of a missing child, as well as tantalizing clues to the puzzling circumstances surrounding Swanny's birth. This information would lie dormant until nearly a century after Asta first put pen to paper, when Asta's granddaughter, Maria's daughter Ann, would review the diaries and discover not only the secret of Swanny's birth, but the identity of a missing child, as well as that of a killer, who nearly a century earlier had butchered two women.	2005-09-26
31761:US	49355567	R3ITUJL1SF0JGU	0553198246	993207297	Virgin	Books	1	2	4	N	N	ONE RELEASE OF THIS BOOK WAS ENOUGH	This is a bad book with a story line that is fairly simple. There are two young girls, both pregnant and both claiming to be virgins. One, Kathleen, rich and privileged, lives in the United States. The other, Colleen, lives in a small country village in Ireland. According to a secret missive from Our Lady of Fatima, one virgin will give birth to Satan's child, the Anti-Christ, while the other will give birth to the child of God, a new Messiah.<br /><br />Meanwhile, all over the world apocalyptic manifestations are sprouting up. Pestilence, drought, famine, and and other evil portents seem to dominate the global landscape. Something strange is going on, and it appears as if the forces of good and evil are gathering about, girding themselves for one final battle.<br /><br />Father Rosetti, an emissary from the vatican, has been entrusted with a secret mission by the Pope relative to these two young virgins, and it is one that will sorely try his faith. Meanwhile, former nun turned private investigator, Anne Fitzgerald, has been retained by the Archdiocese of Boston to look into the phenomena of a possible immaculate conception with regards to these two young women who inhabit disparate worlds. Anne must not only confront the unknown in order to assist these two young women, she must also confront her own powerful emotions and a destiny she could not have imagined.<br /><br />Written in 1980 and originally released under the the title, \\"Virgin\\", this book has been updated by the author to make it appear as if it were a more contemporary work and recently released again under the title \\"Cradle and All\\". The book is riddled with ridiculous cliches from the horror genre and lacks any real tension. It has been released again to capitalize on the author's success with his Alex Cross series of thrillers. Unfortunately, it is not cut from the same bolt of cloth and lacks the quality of both writing and plot that earmarks his Alex Cross novels.	2005-09-26
31885:US	49355567	R2SG89L9HGFB9E	2841112772	19419442	Buffalo soldier	Books	3	1	1	N	N	BUFFALO SOLDIERS OF THE 92ND DIVISION...	The author, who penned the classic international bestseller, \\"The Color of Water: A Black Man's Tribute to His White Mother\\", and was the recipient of the prestigious Anisfield-Wolf Book Award, now turns to a story inspired by an incident that took place during World War II in the war torn, Italian village of St. Anna di Stazzema in the region of Tuscany. This is the French text edition of \\"Miracle at St. Anna\\", a war yarn with a twist, as it features a certain segment of our nation's army at the time, the Buffalo Soldiers of the 92nd Division.<br /><br />The Buffalo soldiers were men of color in the segregated army of yesteryear. On top of fighting enemy soldiers, they were also subjected not only to racist stereotyping but to poor battle decisions by their white commanding officers, which decisions reflected just how dispensable the army thought these Buffalo soldiers to be. This is a story primarily viewed through the eyes of these very soldiers.<br /><br />In the town of St. Anna di Stazzema, something very bad happened, something that would affect all those who would encounter those connected to the town and its events. It would affect Germans, Americans, Italians, partisans, and collaborators in different ways. Its impact would carry through the years and last until the present day.<br /><br />This is a story about those Buffalo soldiers, the village in Tuscany nestled in a war zone, the enemy soldiers, villagers, collaborators, and partisans whom they encounter. At the heart of all that transpires is a little Italian boy, traumatized by war, whose fate would touch all with whom he came in contact and who would be at the heart of the miracle that was to take place. It is through him that they all learn that miracles do, indeed, exist.<br /><br />The book gets off to a great start. In present day New York, an older postal worker, for seemingly no reason, blows away a customer at point blank range with the single pull of a trigger. An investigative reporter runs with a lead and finds that the postal worker has, hidden in his home, a famous piece of statuary, an exquisitely sculpted head, which has been missing from a bridge in Italy since World War II. The mystery deepens.<br /><br />The book then reverts to World War II and the cast of characters that are central to the story. It is here that the author runs into some difficulties. When a number of Buffalo soldiers get caught behind enemy lines, the story start to fall apart. Though it is an interesting story, it is simply dully told. Excruciatingly pedestrian in its telling, the book takes its toll on the reader, turning what could have been a vivid, riveting account into a soporific one.<br /><br />It is not until towards the end of the book that the story again picks up and is able to deliver the same one two punch that it does in the beginning. By then, however, it is too late, and the book never reaches the promise so incipient in its beginning pages. Still, for those readers willing to put up with some disappointment, the book ultimately delivers at the end.with a lead and finds that the postal worker has, hidden in his home, a famous piece of statuary, an exquisitely sculpted head, which has been missing from a bridge in Italy since World War II. The mystery deepens.<br /><br />The book then reverts to World War II and the cast of characters that are central to the story. It is here that the author runs into some difficulties. When a number of Buffalo soldiers get caught behind enemy lines, the story start to fall apart. Though it is an interesting story, it is simply dully told. Excruciatingly pedestrian in its telling, the book takes its toll on the reader, turning what could have been a vivid, riveting account into a soporific one.<br /><br />It is not until towards the end of the book that the story again picks up and is able to deliver the same one two punch that it does in the beginning. By then, however, it is too late, and the book never reaches the promise so incipient in its beginning pages. Still, for those readers willing to put up with some disappointment, the book ultimately delivers at the end.	2005-09-26
32220:US	49355567	R1HP7MLAD2HJDB	0671006576	897586614	Pearl Buck's the Good Earth (Monarch Notes)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A PROFOUND TALE SIMPLY TOLD...	This 1932 Pulitzer Prize winning novel is still a standout today. Deceptive in its simplicity, it is a story built around a flawed human being and a teetering socio-economic system, as well as one that is layered with profound themes. The cadence of the author's writing is also of note, as it rhythmically lends itself to the telling of the story, giving it a very distinct voice. No doubt the author's writing style was influenced by her own immersion in Chinese culture, as she grew up and lived in China, the daughter of missionaries.<br /><br />This is the story of the cyclical nature of life, of the passions and desires that motivate a human being, of good and evil, and of the desire to survive and thrive against great odds. It begins with the story of an illiterate, poor, peasant farmer, Wang Lung, who ventures from the rural countryside and goes to town to the great house of Hwang to obtain a bride from those among the rank of slave. There, he is given the slave O-lan as his bride.<br /><br />Selfless, hardworking, and a bearer of sons, the plain-faced O-lan supports Wang Lung's veneration of the land and his desire to acquire more land. She stays with him through thick and thin, through famine and very lean times, working alongside him on the land, making great sacrifices, and raising his children. As a family, they weather the tumultuousness of pre-revolutionary China in the 1920s, only to find themselves the recipient of riches beyond their dreams. At the first opportunity, they buy land from the great house of Hwang, whose expenses appear to be exceeding their income.<br /><br />With the passing of time, Wang Lung buys more and more land from the house of Hwang, until he owns it all, as his veneration of the land is always paramount. With O-lan at this side, his family continues to prosper. His life becomes more complicated, however, the richer he gets. Wang Lung then commits a life-changing act that pierces O-lan's heart in the most profoundly heartbreaking way.<br /><br />As the years pass, his sons become educated and literate, and the family continues to prosper. With the great house of Hwang on the skids, an opportunity to buy their house, the very same house from where he had fetched O-lan many years ago, becomes available. Pressed upon to buy that house by his sons, who do not share Wang Lung's veneration for the land and rural life, he buys the house. The country mice now have become city mice.<br /><br />This is a potent, thematically complex story, brimming with irony, yet simply told against a framework of mounting social change. It is a story that stands as a parable in many ways and is one that certainly should be read. It illustrates the timeless dichotomy between the young and the old, the old and the new, and the rich and the poor. It is no wonder that this beautifully written book won a Pulitzer Prize and is considered a classic masterpiece. Bravo!ay.<br /><br />As the years pass, his sons become educated and literate, and the family continues to prosper. With the great house of Hwang on the skids, an opportunity to buy their house, the very same house from where he had fetched O-lan many years ago, becomes available. Pressed upon to buy that house by his sons, who do not share Wang Lung's veneration for the land and rural life, he buys the house. The country mice now have become city mice.<br /><br />This is a potent, thematically complex story, brimming with irony, yet simply told against a framework of mounting social change. It is a story that stands as a parable in many ways and is one that certainly should be read. It illustrates the timeless dichotomy between the young and the old, the old and the new, and the rich and the poor. It is no wonder that this beautifully written book won a Pulitzer Prize and is considered a classic masterpiece. Bravo!	2005-09-26
33106:US	49355567	RPPRZ8C8AUUU2	1593080247	584095688	My Antonia (Barnes & Noble Classics)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A TIMELESS CLASSIC OUT OF AMERICA'S HEARTLAND	I first read this book when I was in junior high school. I admit that, at the time, I did not appreciate the strengths of the book and the quality of its writing. I am quite glad that I decided to give it another chance, as, having re-read it, I now understand why it is considered to be a classic in literature. It is simply a beautifully written book, covering many of the themes that one stumbles across in life and coalescing them into a work of extraordinary breadth.<br /><br />The book is the story of two young people, Jim Burden and Antonia Shimerda. They meet for the first time when Jim is ten years old and Antonia is fourteen. Recently orphaned, Jim has moved to the Great Prairie to live with his grandparents in Nebraska. Antonia, on the other hand, has been wrenched from her homeland in Bohemia, emigrating with her parents to the United States and finding herself in Nebraska. Jim and Antonia's chance encounter on a train sets the stage for the forging of a friendship and unconditional love that time will not diminish.<br /><br />The book relates the harshness of immigrant life through the eyes of Jim, who narrates the events contained in the book. There is a relentless stoicism about the book, which is written in spare, clear prose. With intense imagery and descriptive exactitude, late nineteenth century Nebraska comes to life. It also relates the paths that each of the characters choose to follow, as well as the vicissitudes of life that mold and shape them in ways that no one would have imagined.<br /><br />The focus of the book, which is also a coming of age tale, seems to be on the female characters and their strengths. All the women in it seem to be survivors, despite the hardships that they encounter. This is, without a doubt, a life affirming book, wrought with great feeling and a decided sense of time and place. Yet, despite its poignancy, the book is surprisingly unsentimental and straightforward. It is a testament to the author's literary talent that this book has emerged as a timeless classic. Bravo!this book has emerged as a timeless classic. Bravo!	2005-09-26
53863:US	49355567	R44WM76ZKO363	8500007850	849876528	Sexo Trocado: A História Real do Menino Criado Como Menina	Books	5	0	0	N	N	NO HAPPY ENDINGS...	This is the Portuguese text edition of  \\"As Nature Made Him\\", a wonderfully written book and a fascinating look into the debate of nature versus nurture in the area of gender assignment. Intelligent and insightful, the author draws a compassionate portrait of a family who, faced with a decision in the wake of a tragedy, relies upon the advice of a well-respected doctor, which reliance turned out to be misplaced. The book details the aftermath of the family's fateful decision and the impact it was to have on them all.<br /><br />In August 1965, Canadians Janet and Ron Reimer gave birth to identical twin boys, whom they named Brian and Bruce. When they were about eight months old, they arranged to have them circumcised due to a medical condition that caused them pain during urination. Circumcision was to remedy the problem. Little did they know that the circumcision for Bruce would be botched, resulting in the loss of his penis.<br /><br />A plastic surgeon with whom the Reimers had consulted in connection with the catastrophe that had struck Bruce had spoken to a sex researcher who had recommended that they raise Bruce as a girl. Doctors at the Mayo Clinic had suggested that they ought to get a second opinion with regards to that suggestion. The parents then consulted with a doctor affiliated with John Hopkins Hospital, Dr. John Money, a renowned doctor in the area of gender transformation, who had been the driving force behind the then controversial surgical gender re-assignment procedure for which the hospital was becoming known.<br /><br />In 1967, the distraught parents met with Dr. Money and shortly after, Bruce became Brenda and clinical castration followed. Thus, their child, who genetically and anatomically had been born a boy, was for all extent and purposes now deemed to be a girl. Brian was now on the other side of the gender divide of his identical twin brother, the twin formerly known as Bruce.<br /><br />Moreover, Dr. Money now had a dream scientific experiment, because he had a set of twins for which the unafflicted twin could act as a control by which to measure the afflicted one. In 1972, Dr. Money disclosed his \\"twins case\\" to the medical world, giving a slanted version of the experiment that made it appear to be an unqualified success. Unfortunately, his analysis of the situation did not disclose the difficulties that Brenda was having and her seeming inability to adjust to being a girl.<br /><br />Apparently, though Brenda had no idea as she was growing up that she had originally been born a boy, she never felt that she was a girl. Years of follow-up visits with Dr. Money for both twins proved to be unsettling for them, as Dr. Money employed somewhat bizarre methods and procedures. Moreover, as Brenda grew older, she would resist additional surgeries and initially resisted the hormone therapy that was introduced on the eve of puberty. Even when confronted with a totally rebellious Brenda, Dr. Money, however, remained in denial about the failure of his experiment. He would continue to tout his treatment of Brenda as an unqualified success.<br /><br />It was not until March of 1980 that Brenda was finally informed by her father about what had happened to her years ago and what had been decided in light of the circumstances. It was a revelation that was to dramatically change Brenda's life. What followed was a repudiation of Dr. Money's assertions with respect to his treatment. The book details the changes that Brenda was to make in her life, changes that would find her living the life she was originally meant to lead. Brenda would now become David and live the life of a male. Unfortunately, happiness would continue to elude him.<br /><br />This is a simply wonderful, intimate look at a family that survived a hideous tragedy. It also sympathetically and sensitively details the personal journey of one family through the labyrinthine differences in opinion surrounding the age old debate over nature versus nature.I would certainly assert that nature, and not nurture, controls. This is a very well thought out book on the issue, grounded in the experience of one family. Bravo!I would certainly assert that nature, and not nurture, controls. This is a very well thought out book on the issue, grounded in the experience of one family. Bravo!	2005-09-14
53921:US	49355567	R2IDFOEAAEIJO3	0736687467	244886090	The Nanny Diaries	Books	3	1	4	N	N	MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING...	I had originally thought that this was going to be a work of non-fiction in a nanny tell all. It turned out, instead, to be a mildly funny look at the rich and obnoxious and their young children through the eyes of a spineless nanny. While some of this book is amusing, it is not particularly well written. It is the kind of book you read once, and then promptly forget. It is not a bad book, as it is somewhat entertaining. What this book really represents is what happens when a book grabs the attention of the media. It becomes a best seller. Long after the dust settles, I anticipate that this book will be to the publishing world, what a one hit wonder is to the music industry.<br /><br />This work of fiction provides caricatures of selfish, self-absorbed, wealthy parents and a peek into the life of their overly-structured and overly-managed offspring. The nanny in question is also a caricature, as she struggles to be appear good hearted, but in the end is just a spineless jellyfish who goes along with the program, no matter how offensive she may find her employers and their demands to be. The nanny tries to come across as an underprivileged, put upon employee, but is, in reality, part of the problem, as she is certainly not a part of the solution. She is an upper middle class young woman who attends a prestigious university. She is hardly one of the hoi polloi, no matter how much she may empathize with those who are truly at the mercy of employers such as the ones found in this book. As social satire this book falls short. Borrow it from the library. Do not bother to buy it, as it is a one note book. If you feel that you must buy it, do yourself a favor and buy the paperback, as it is not a book that you would want to keep. It is a quick, throwaway read.	2005-09-14
53923:US	49355567	R2I2NQ8RTPRQ96	0736683194	598224178	One Door Away From Heaven (Unabridged)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A MUMBO JUMBO GUMBO...	I enjoyed this book and wavered on the rating. I had a difficult time deciding whether to rate it a three or a four. I finally decided on three because, while it is an enjoyable read, it is not one of his best. Those who read and enjoyed the author's last book, \\"From the Corner Of His Eye\\", as I did, will, undoubtedly, enjoy this one, though it is not as good. If it is a great book by this author for which you are looking, then read his latest book, \\"Velocity\\". You will not be disappointed.<br /><br />Here, this genre bending book, written with wry humor, has a series of subplots and colorful characters with improbable names that propel the story forward. Twenty-eight year old Michelina Birdsong is a young and beautiful woman with a troubled past. Living in a trailer park with her eccentric aunt, Geneva, she lacks focus and is overly fond of lemon flavored vodka. It is as if she has lost the will to live.<br /><br />When she gets new neighbors in the mobile home next door, one of whom is the precocious and physically deformed nine year, Leilani Klonk, her heart is touched most unexpectedly by the pathos of her young life. As Leilani is living with a drug crazed mother and step-father, a sociopathic \\"doctor\\" who may be a serial killer, Mickey finds herself wanting to make Leilani's life better and in doing so, redeeming her own. When Leilani and her family precipitously abandon their mobile home one night, Michelina, fearing the worst for Leilani, springs into action and finds herself in hot pursuit of this family, hoping to avert a tragedy.<br /><br />Meanwhile, a young motherless boy, who calls himself Curtis, and his dog, a Labrador with whom he has a most unique relationship, are racing away from their own potential Armageddon. This boy, too, is precocious and quite gifted, but seems to lack a true understanding of the ways and customs of those whom he meets. He is just a beat off. Still, while there is something odd about him, it is clear that, though he seems to have unusual gifts, he has a pure spirit and is a good boy running from a great evil. His pursuers, seemingly invincible and other worldly, will stop at nothing to get a hold of Curtis and keep him from his mission. The journey that Curtis makes is quite astonishing.<br /><br />At some point the paths of these main characters improbably cross and all is made somewhat, though not totally, clear. The book, which is an imaginative blend of suspense, science fiction, and bioethical philosophy, has somewhat religious or quasi-spiritual overtones, as it boils down to the quintessential battle between good and evil. In this book, Koontz continues on the path he forged with his previous book, \\"From the Corner of His Eye\\". To where that path will ultimately lead, however, remains to be seen.o have unusual gifts, he has a pure spirit and is a good boy running from a great evil. His pursuers, seemingly invincible and other worldly, will stop at nothing to get a hold of Curtis and keep him from his mission. The journey that Curtis makes is quite astonishing.<br /><br />At some point the paths of these main characters improbably cross and all is made somewhat, though not totally, clear. The book, which is an imaginative blend of suspense, science fiction, and bioethical philosophy, has somewhat religious or quasi-spiritual overtones, as it boils down to the quintessential battle between good and evil. In this book, Koontz continues on the path he forged with his previous book, \\"From the Corner of His Eye\\". To where that path will ultimately lead, however, remains to be seen.	2005-09-14
54435:US	49355567	R3TVRPM6FHZGKA	0739409204	95144783	Cradle and All	Books	1	1	1	N	N	A STINKER BY ANY OTHER NAME...	This is a bad book with a fairly simple story line. There are two young girls, both pregnant and both claiming to be virgins. One, Kathleen, rich and privileged, lives in the United States. The other, Colleen, lives in a small country village in Ireland. According to a secret missive from Our Lady of Fatima, one virgin will give birth to Satan's child, the Anti-Christ, while the other will give birth to the child of God, a new Messiah.<br /><br />Meanwhile, all over the world apocalyptic manifestations are sprouting up. Pestilence, drought, famine, and other evil portents seem to dominate the global landscape. Something strange is going on, and it appears as if the forces of good and evil are gathering about, girding themselves for one final battle.<br /><br />Father Rosetti, an emissary from the Vatican, has been entrusted with a secret mission by the Pope relative to these two young virgins, and it is one that will sorely try his faith. Meanwhile, former nun turned private investigator, Anne Fitzgerald, has been retained by the Archdiocese of Boston to look into the phenomena of a possible immaculate conception with regards to these two young women who inhabit disparate worlds. Anne must not only confront the unknown in order to assist these two young women; she must also confront her own powerful emotions and a destiny she could not have imagined.<br /><br />The book is riddled with ridiculous cliches from the horror genre and lacks any real tension. First released in 1980 under the title, \\"Virgin\\", this book has been updated by the author to make it appear as if it were a more contemporary work. It has now resurfaced under the title \\"Cradle and All\\" in order to capitalize on the author's success with his Alex Cross series of thrillers. Unfortunately, it is not cut from the same bolt of cloth and lacks the quality of both writing and plot that earmarks his Alex Cross novels.	2005-09-14
54437:US	49355567	R2TCMOOY0EMW24	0736642498	408200678	When the Wind Blows	Books	3	1	1	N	N	I CAN FLY!...I CAN FLY!...LIKE A BIRD IN THE SKY...	This is a fairly tepid audio book that has new life breathed into it by the spirited narration of Kimberly Schraf. The plot revolves around secret, government sanctioned experiments on humans, dealing with some of the ethical themes of today: cloning, genetic engineering of humans, and cross species hybrids.<br /><br />The plot is simple. Two of the test subjects have escaped the confines of the closely guarded, secret laboratory. Matt and Max, a brother and sister team who can fly, are on the loose and being hunted down. Yet, they need only spread their wings, and, as did Icarus, Max and Matt can soar high up into the wild blue yonder. The only problem is that hunters must bring them back to the secret lab, before anyone sees them. To further complicate things, Matt and Max do not wish to be caught, because they know that bad things happen in the lab and that people, who are deemed dispensable and no longer necessary, are \\"put to sleep\\" and never seen again.<br /><br />In the outside world, the children separate. Eleven year old Max has the good fortune to run into Frannie O'Neill, a compassionate veterinarian who immediately realizes that there is something extraordinary about Max, beyond the fact that she has real, honest-to-goodness wings and can fly. Frannie is aware that Max is more than the sum of her parts. Together with the help of an FBI agent who calls himself Kit Harrison, they will do everything they can to help Max evade her pursuers, only to become earmarked for death themselves.<br /><br />The content of the book merits a rating of two stars as it is mediocre fare, at best, but the fervent and animated reading by the narrator merits four stars, so I am awarding this book three stars, overall.	2005-09-14
54581:US	49355567	R54KY74DOKUZR	B0007AP328	571312355	The Other America: Poverty in the United States	Books	4	3	4	N	N	THE POOR ARE HERE TO STAY...	This is the seminal work on the poor in America, analyzed within the context of government proffered, anti-poverty programs. It is a scathing critique and analysis of the war on poverty, where bold rhetoric and political grandstanding have often supplanted action. The author in his analysis categorizes poverty as a cultural and often institutional way of life that would require radical innovations, social planning, and long term financial investment, were the government really serious about eradicating poverty in America. What is amazing is that the arguments made by the author, when he wrote this book forty years ago, are still sound today.	2005-09-14
54736:US	49355567	R28IEMDWJDAJR5	0788771701	621198908	The Ice House	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A WORTHY DEBUT NOVEL...	Winner of Britain's John Creasey Award for Best First Crime Novel, this splendid debut novel by the author is a tough act to follow. She weaves a marvelous mystery surrounding three women who live together in an English Country manor house, one of whom, Phoebe Maybury, is suspected of having murdered her bounder of a husband ten years ago. More recently, a corpse in found in an old icehouse on their property, and rumors begin flying fast and furious about these three women.<br /><br />Ostracized by the community in which they live, these three women become larger than life in the minds of the local townsfolk. The charming and artistic Diana Goode and the earthy, no nonsense Anne Catrell hunker about their housemate, Phoebe Maybury, as the events of the past threaten to crop up again and overwhelm her.<br /><br />The police, led by Chief Inspector Walsh, a man with his own underlying agenda, seem intent upon putting the screws to these three women, fixating upon Phoebe. Only Sergeant Detective McLoughlin seems to be genuinely interested in discovering the truth. In order to do so, however, he must confront his own personal demons, as he finds himself drawn into a snare of deceit, good intentions gone awry, loyalty, and a secret that threatens to ruin the lives of three women.<br /><br />The author cleverly uses the discovery of the corpse as a catalyst for a voyage of self-discovery for some of her characters. Brimming with a cornucopia of subplots and one or two red herrings, the author grips the reader with a literate and compelling narrative. She is a welcome addition to the ever growing list of British mystery novelists. This author's work should appeal to those who enjoy mysteries written by Ruth Rendell.	2005-09-14
55013:US	49355567	R2UTXGE9MBC4YB	849575245X	372433866	Silencios y Mentiras (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	WHOSE CHILD ARE YOU?...	This is the Spanish text edition of \\"Whose Little Girl Are You?\\", a gripping, page turner that is hard to put down, once the reader has picked it up. Fast paced and highly suspenseful, the story revolves around a female character named Jaye Garrett. Independent, intelligent, and resourceful, the epitome of a modern woman, thirty three year old Jaye is stunned to learn that not only is her beloved brother, Patrick, practically on his death bed with leukemia, but that only a bone marrow transplant can save him. When she quickly offers hers up, she is stunned to find out that both she and her brother are not related by blood , as they were both adopted in private \\"black market\\" adoptions.<br /><br />Determined to find Patrick's blood relatives in the hope of finding one who is a match for a bone marrow transplant that could save his life, Jaye embarks on a journey that takes her to Cawdor, Oklahoma, where she teams up with an attorney from Philadelphia who is there on his own similar quest on behalf of a client. In Cawdor, their investigation brings them into conflict with a group of people who will do anything to stop the past from being revived. When Jaye relentlessly rakes up the past in order to find those who have the potential to save her beloved brother's life, she sets in motion a series of events that could cost her her own life. These people will stop at nothing, not even murder, to quell inquiry into a part of the town's history that will not withstand scrutiny.<br /><br />This book will appeal to those readers who enjoy thrillers, mysteries, novels of suspense, or just a good, quick, page turning read. This one delivers!	2005-09-14
55421:US	49355567	R37DXT7IUPALC7	1857027086	529493659	The Kiss	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	DISTURBING AND PROFOUNDLY SAD...	This is an elegantly written memoir, searingly painful, yet, at the same time, strangely compelling, about a young woman who grew up in a dysfunctional household, raised primarily by her grandparents. Her undemonstrative mother, who lived apart from her daughter during her formative years, was emotionally distant, and her father, from whom her mother was divorced, was physically absent.<br /><br />When she was reunited with her father at the age of twenty, her hunger for love and affection was such that an unfatherly kiss led to a consensual and obsessive sexual affair with her biological father, an ordained minister. It was an obsession in which her own mother was seemingly complicit, treating her daughter as if she were a rival for the affection of the man that they both loved. The author's unseemly obsession with her father would torment and haunt her for years.<br /><br />This is a beautifully told story about a parental betrayal so incomprehensible that it will leave the reader aghast. The author infuses the book with a sadness that is heartbreakingly palpable. Her evocative and lyrical prose, spare and intense, elevates this otherwise sordid and tawdry tale, making it a haunting memoir of a past that is best forgotten.	2005-09-14
60292:US	49355567	R32KZSA7I74D1U	3257228007	249342842	Das Parfum: Die Geschichte Eines Morders (Fiction, Poetry & Drama) (German Edition)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A DAZZLING AND INGENIOUS WORK OF FICTION....	This is the original German text edition of a novel so beautifully written that it transcends into literature. Ingenious in its conception and carefully crafted, the author has created a unique and dazzling work of fiction. Divided into three parts, the book tells the story of a most unusual life, that of Jean-Baptiste Grenouille.<br /><br />The first part of the book establishes that he was born to a woman who was hung from a gibbet for having left him to die. It turns out that Jean-Baptiste is an unusual baby. He gives people the willies, because, unlike most babies, Jean-Baptiste has no scent.<br /><br />Over time, Jean-Baptiste develops into a boy with a secret gift. His olfactory sense is developed to a degree unheard of in humans. He delights in parsing the odors around him. Ugly, friendless, and a loner, he eventually ventures into the city of Paris, a malodorous and pungent cornucopia of smells. Believe me, there is plenty to sniff out in eighteenth century Paris! Jean-Baptiste savors each whiff, and the book conveys these olfactory delights with meticulous, descriptive precision.<br /><br />His bleak existence is transformed, however, when he one day captures a heady scent of such exquisite beauty that he finds himself obsessed with it. Determined to have that scent at all costs, he eventually sniffs it out. It turns out to be the scent of a young virgin on the cusp of flowering into a woman. It is a scent that he must possess. What he does to do so will surely chill the reader.<br /><br />Jean-Baptiste eventually maneuvers to get himself apprenticed to a perfumer, so that he can have the opportunity to learn the trade and create scents. He leads a bleak existence, subsisting as little more than a slave to the perfumer for whom he works. But no matter, for he learns all that he needs to know.<br /><br />The second part of the book begins when Jean-Baptiste leave his employer and goes on a personal pilgrimage, leading an austere existence away from civilization for many years. There, he withdraws into himself even further, living a totally self-sustaining, hermitic existence. He ultimately realizes what other have sensed about him. Jean-Baptiste has no personal scent. He simply does not smell.<br /><br />With this knowledge, he returns to civilization where, having lived as practically an animal for many years, he creates a fictitious and adventurous scenario to account for his filthy and disgusting appearance. Subsequently, he is taken under the wing of some local nobility and feted and pampered. Realizing the importance of scent, he creates a personal scent for himself. He now realizes that he who has the power over scent can rule supreme. He intends to do so.<br /><br />The third part of the book has Jean-Baptiste migrating to a town that is the hub for the scent trade. Perfumes, oils, and soaps are the stock in trade for this town and, as such, beckon brightly to Jean-Baptiste. Once there, he again smells a scent so delectable that he longs to possess it. He knows that scent for what it is and now knows that it is the scent, and not the personal charms of its bearer, that captures the attention and devotion of others. Jean Baptiste wants to harness that scent at all costs. He desperately desires the power to make others love him. He wants to be supreme.<br /><br />It is his desperate desire to harness and possess that celestial scent that causes Jean-Baptiste, a socio-path with little empathy for others, to prey upon the maidens of the town in order to obtain that which he needs. It is his obsession that lays at the heart of the vortex that arises in the town, as murder after murder occurs. Yet, no one suspects him.<br /><br />What ultimately happens leads to an almost unbelievable climax, when Jean-Baptiste finds himself consumed by the passion he has managed to arouse in others through scent. This is a heady, quirky, and compelling debut novel, like nothing I have ever before read. Complex and lyrical in its telling, it is a novel that stays with the reader long after the last page is turned. Bravo!ing, it is a novel that stays with the reader long after the last page is turned. Bravo!	2005-09-11
60345:US	49355567	R2CVW7FRYBM2BP	0671814753	317289062	Ordeal by Hunger	Books	4	3	3	N	N	THE DONNER PARTY TRAGEDY...	This book presents an account of the Donner Party, a wagon train of about eighty-seven people who in July 1846 started off for California via a new, untried route through the Sierras. Unfortunately, this particular wagon train of pioneers would go down in history due to the horror and tragedy that it was to meet along its way. Stranded in the Sierras amidst its harshest winter in years, with unparalleled snowfall and frigid temperatures, only little more than half, mostly women and children, were to survive their unbelievable deprivation and suffering.<br /><br />This wagon train was a loose confederation of strangers who originally were part of another wagon train, but who collectively branched off by consensus to try a new, though untried and unproven, overland route through the Sierras that was alleged to be shorter. Their decision to take this new route was one that would haunt them for the rest of their journey, as it was not what it was purported to be. The inexperience of these travelers, the poor decisions that were sometimes made, and their seeming inability to truly unify as one entity contributed to their ultimate debacle. They were, after all, representative of humanity at large. Some of them were good, brave, and unselfish. Some were people with whom one would not wish to shake hands.<br /><br />Beleaguered by thirst as they trekked across a desert, marauded by Indians along the way, plagued by the loss of necessary oxen and cattle, beset by accidents and personal squabbles that would sometimes turn deadly, they would finally reach the Sierras and begin their perilous crossing, only to find themselves snowbound at the summit while within sight of the pass that they needed to cross to be home free. Trapped by the weather in early November, they would set up a make-shift camp, never thinking about just how long their encampment would last. With minimal food supplies at their disposal, these intrepid, westward-ho emigrants would find themselves trapped for months, facing incredible hardships that would tax them beyond human endurance. Some would resort to cannibalism in order to survive.<br /><br />This is a riveting story about survival of the fittest, about personal sacrifice, and human foibles. It is a story not only of those ill-fated pioneers but also of those who would attempt to rescue them, often at great personal cost. It is a story that reflects the human spirit, both good and bad, in time of crisis. It is a story of often selfless heroism. It is also a story of greed and craven opportunism. While some of the book is politically incorrect, it is reflective of the times in which these pioneers lived, as well as that of when this book was first written.<br /><br />It is, however, remiss that the maps included in this book do little to illustrate the deadly journey undertaken by these pioneers. Still, the lack of comprehensive maps does not unduly detract from the powerful impact that this story has on the reader. Moreover, although the book was published in 1936, the author, a trained historian, added a supplement in 1960, which is included in this edition of his book. This supplement serves to correct errors, as well as incorporate additional relevant material not available at the time of original publication.<br /><br />Those who enjoy tales of survival will, undoubtedly, find this gripping tale well worth reading.months, facing incredible hardships that would tax them beyond human endurance. Some would resort to cannibalism in order to survive.<br /><br />This is a riveting story about survival of the fittest, about personal sacrifice, and human foibles. It is a story not only of those ill-fated pioneers but also of those who would attempt to rescue them, often at great personal cost. It is a story that reflects the human spirit, both good and bad, in time of crisis. It is a story of often selfless heroism. It is also a story of greed and craven opportunism. While some of the book is politically incorrect, it is reflective of the times in which these pioneers lived, as well as that of when this book was first written.<br /><br />It is, however, remiss that the maps included in this book do little to illustrate the deadly journey undertaken by these pioneers. Still, the lack of comprehensive maps does not unduly detract from the powerful impact that this story has on the reader. Moreover, although the book was published in 1936, the author, a trained historian, added a supplement in 1960, which is included in this edition of his book. This supplement serves to correct errors, as well as incorporate additional relevant material not available at the time of original publication.<br /><br />Those who enjoy tales of survival will, undoubtedly, find this gripping tale well worth reading.	2005-09-11
60465:US	49355567	R3CMHYF72P8VXN	0671623931	412606618	The Good Earth	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A PULITZER PRIZE WINNING MASTERPIECE...	This 1932 Pulitzer Prize winning novel is still a standout today. Deceptive in its simplicity, it is a story built around a flawed human being and a teetering socio-economic system, as well as one that is layered with profound themes. The cadence of the author's writing is also of note, as it rhythmically lends itself to the telling of the story, giving it a very distinct voice. No doubt the author's writing style was influenced by her own immersion in Chinese culture, as she grew up and lived in China, the daughter of missionaries.<br /><br />This is the story of the cyclical nature of life, of the passions and desires that motivate a human being, of good and evil, and of the desire to survive and thrive against great odds. It begins with the story of an illiterate, poor, peasant farmer, Wang Lung, who ventures from the rural countryside and goes to town to the great house of Hwang to obtain a bride from those among the rank of slave. There, he is given the slave O-lan as his bride.<br /><br />Selfless, hardworking, and a bearer of sons, the plain-faced O-lan supports Wang Lung's veneration of the land and his desire to acquire more land. She stays with him through thick and thin, through famine and very lean times, working alongside him on the land, making great sacrifices, and raising his children. As a family, they weather the tumultuousness of pre-revolutionary China in the 1920s, only to find themselves the recipient of riches beyond their dreams. At the first opportunity, they buy land from the great house of Hwang, whose expenses appear to be exceeding their income.<br /><br />With the passing of time, Wang Lung buys more and more land from the house of Hwang, until he owns it all, as his veneration of the land is always paramount. With O-lan at this side, his family continues to prosper. His life becomes more complicated, however, the richer he gets. Wang Lung then commits a life-changing act that pierces O-lan's heart in the most profoundly heartbreaking way.<br /><br />As the years pass, his sons become educated and literate, and the family continues to prosper. With the great house of Hwang on the skids, an opportunity to buy their house, the very same house from where he had fetched O-lan many years ago, becomes available. Pressed upon to buy that house by his sons, who do not share Wang Lung's veneration for the land and rural life, he buys the house. The country mice now have become city mice.<br /><br />This is a potent, thematically complex story, brimming with irony, yet simply told against a framework of mounting social change. It is a story that stands as a parable in many ways and is one that certainly should be read. It illustrates the timeless dichotomy between the young and the old, the old and the new, and the rich and the poor. It is no wonder that this beautifully written book won a Pulitzer Prize and is considered a classic masterpiece. Bravo!ay.<br /><br />As the years pass, his sons become educated and literate, and the family continues to prosper. With the great house of Hwang on the skids, an opportunity to buy their house, the very same house from where he had fetched O-lan many years ago, becomes available. Pressed upon to buy that house by his sons, who do not share Wang Lung's veneration for the land and rural life, he buys the house. The country mice now have become city mice.<br /><br />This is a potent, thematically complex story, brimming with irony, yet simply told against a framework of mounting social change. It is a story that stands as a parable in many ways and is one that certainly should be read. It illustrates the timeless dichotomy between the young and the old, the old and the new, and the rich and the poor. It is no wonder that this beautifully written book won a Pulitzer Prize and is considered a classic masterpiece. Bravo!	2005-09-11
60674:US	49355567	RCTBVL2THUP6L	0393967905	584095688	My Ántonia (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A TIMELESS CLASSIC...	I first read this book when I was in junior high school. I admit that, at the time, I did not appreciate the strengths of the book and the quality of its writing. I am quite glad that I decided to give it another chance, as, having re-read it,  I now understand why it is considered to be a classic in literature. It is simply a beautifully written book, covering many of the themes that one stumbles across in life and coalescing them into a work of extraordinary breadth.<br /><br />The book is the story of two young people, Jim Burden and Antonia Shimerda. They meet for the first time when Jim is ten years old and Antonia is fourteen. Recently orphaned, Jim has moved to the Great Prairie to live with his grandparents in Nebraska. Antonia, on the other hand, has been wrenched from her homeland in Bohemia, emigrating with her parents to the United States and finding herself in Nebraska. Jim and Antonia's chance encounter on a train sets the stage for the forging of a friendship and unconditional love that time will not diminish.<br /><br />The book relates the harshness of immigrant life through the eyes of Jim, who narrates the events contained in the book. There is a relentless stoicism about the book, which is written in spare, clear prose. With intense imagery and descriptive exactitude, late nineteenth century Nebraska comes to life. It also relates the paths that each of the characters choose to follow, as well as the vicissitudes of life that mold and shape them in ways that no one would have imagined.<br /><br />The focus of the book, which is also a coming of age tale, seems to be on the female characters and their strengths. All the women in it seem to be survivors, despite the hardships that they encounter. This is, without a doubt, a life affirming book, wrought with great feeling and a decided sense of time and place. Yet, despite its poignancy, the book is surprisingly unsentimental and straightforward. It is a testament to the author's literary talent that this book has emerged as a timeless classic. Bravo!t this book has emerged as a timeless classic. Bravo!	2005-09-11
61042:US	49355567	R1MEOJM4H4KYAP	0553804154	829325009	Velocity	Books	5	18	23	N	Y	A PAGE-TURNER...	Once I started this book, the plot grabbed me right from the beginning and would not let go. Even though it is a plot driven book, the main character is well developed, even though others, perhaps, are not. It makes no difference, however, as it is the intricate, tightly constructed plot that will grab the reader. This is quintessential Koontz at his best, producing a riveting page-turner, once again.<br /><br />Billy Wiles is a formerly promising writer turned barkeep. He has experienced a goodly amount of tragedy in his life. Orphaned at fourteen, he is haunted by the unusual circumstances surrounding the death of his parents. He is also devoted to his fiancee, Barbara, who lies in a comatose state in a nursing home, the victim of the fickle finger of fate. She has been given little hope of recovery.  While Billy appears to be an easygoing, hardworking regular Joe,  he goes through life with despair etched in the very way that he lives.<br /><br />One night, however, a pivotal event occurs that will forever change Billy's life. A note is left under the windshield wipers of his car. The note gives him a most unusual ultimatum. It tells him that if he does not take the note to the police, securing their involvement, \\"a lovely blonde schoolteacher from the Napa Valley\\" will be murdered. The note also conversely tells Billy that if he does take the note to the police, \\"an elderly woman active in charity work\\" will, instead, be murdered. These are the two choices for which Billy has been given six hours to decide.<br /><br />What Billy chooses to do and what follows are the stuff of which nightmares are made. Suddenly, Billy's formerly quiet, prosaic life takes on a new dimension, one in which reality is suspended, as the first note is followed by a series of them.  Each note ups the ante, leaving Billy with having to make choices no human being should have to make. The ingenious plot takes the reader on a thrill ride of terror and suspense.<br /><br />This was a book that I could not put down, so intriguing, original,  and mesmerizing was the plot. Fans of the author, as well as those of Stephen King, should find much to like about this brilliantly plotted, fast-paced book, which puts a new spin on the age old struggle between good and evil. Written by a master storyteller at the top of his game, the book should keep the enthralled reader turning the pages, until the very last one has been turned. This is, without a doubt, one of the author's best books.that I could not put down, so intriguing, original,  and mesmerizing was the plot. Fans of the author, as well as those of Stephen King, should find much to like about this brilliantly plotted, fast-paced book, which puts a new spin on the age old struggle between good and evil. Written by a master storyteller at the top of his game, the book should keep the enthralled reader turning the pages, until the very last one has been turned. This is, without a doubt, one of the author's best books.	2005-09-11
61327:US	49355567	RTFEO0UYYLQXJ	857164991X	447398446	Eu, Malika Oufkir: Prisioneira do Rei	Books	2	0	0	N	N	A POORLY WRITTEN, POORLY EDITED BOOK...	This is the Portuguese text edition of a book that, on its face, held a lot of promise. Any story in which a mother and her children, as well as faithful family retainers, are unjustly imprisoned in squalid conditions for twenty years for an ostensible crime committed by the familial patriarch would certainly be of interest. Wrong! This is a tepid and disappointing book, poorly written and, most certainly, poorly edited. It is so filled with contradictions and inconsistencies, as to create somewhat of a credibility gap for the reader.<br /><br />The story revolves around the Oufkir family, who were, at one time, a prominent, highly respected, and well known Moroccan family. Their story is told by Malika Oufkir, who is the eldest daughter of the late General Oufkir, who was executed in August 1972, immediately following an aborted attempt to assassinate King Hassan II of Morocco, for whom he was the Minister of Defense. General's Oufkir's treasonous action was the catalyst for the tragic turn of events that were to engulf his family.<br /><br />After the aborted coup, the General's immediate family was placed under house arrest and four months later, along with two loyal family retainers who volunteered to share their fate, were whisked away to the first of several desert prisons that were to house them for the next fifteen years.<br /><br />As Malika tells it, hers was initially almost a fairy tale story. Brought up in luxurious surroundings, she suffered early heartbreak when, at the age of five, she was separated from her family and \\"adopted\\" by then King Muhammad V, so as to be a live in playmate for the King's daughter. This adoption is never really explained, and one has no idea what her parents' thoughts were on this issue. Malika lived in the Palace in the lap of luxury for many years. As a teenager, however, she moved back with her family, where, there too, she continued to live a very privileged life, steeped in luxury and money.<br /><br />After the Oufkirs' circumstances changed, theirs is truly a tragic story. There is little doubt that the conditions in their desert prisons were deplorable and squalid. With inadequate sanitation, insufficient food, no medical care, or educational provisions, the family was truly living a life of privation. Cutoff from the outside world, as they were, they truly were disenfranchised.<br /><br />Their escape from their last desert prison, an escape that brought their plight to the consciousness of the public, was amazing. But for their escape, there is no doubt in my mind that they would still be languishing in a desert prison today, barely alive, if not already dead. I salute their determination and ingenuity in making a desperate break for freedom.<br /><br />The problem lies in the telling of the story, which is so poorly told. Many things are left unexplained. No effort is made to ground the events that led to their family's downfall in a historical context. Whatever Malika said seems to have been what went into the final draft of this book, even if she contradicted herself a page or two later, which is the main problem with the book. There are so many inconsistencies with what Malika herself says, that the discerning reader is left to question much of what she represents.<br /><br />Malika comes across as a somewhat self-absorbed, vapid woman to whom fate dealt a harsh and unusually cruel hand. Her self absorption is most evident in that she barely acknowledges the sacrifice of the two faithful family retainers, who voluntarily shared their fate, nor does she discuss the impact that this had on them. It is also a little disconcerting that more does not come through about the perceptions the other family members had about this hellish experience. Their insight might have provided a little more balance and interest to the narrative. In the hands of a good writer and  excellent editor, this book might have withstood scrutiny and met expectations.<br /><br />Sorry, Oprah, your bookclub selections are usually excellent. This one fails to make the grade.club selections are usually excellent. This one fails to make the grade.	2005-09-11
61487:US	49355567	R18I504XPHIBPP	B0008BIFZ8	651296590	Cold Comfort farm (The Longman stories of laughter)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	SOMETHING NASTY HAPPENED IN THE WOODSHED...	Published in 1932, this novel is a hysterically funny, tongue in cheek parody of the heavy handed, gloomy novels of some early twentieth century English writers who had previously been so popular. Tremendously successful when first published, \\"Cold Comfort Farm\\" caused quite a stir in its time.<br /><br />The novel starts out innocuously enough, when well-educated Flora Poste finds herself orphaned at the age of twenty. Discovering that her father was not the wealthy man she believed him to be, she is resigned to the fate of having to live on a hundred pounds a year. Opting to live with relatives, rather than earn her bread, she seeks out a most unlikely set of relations, the odd Starkadder family who live in Howling, Sussex.<br /><br />Therein begins what is certainly one of the funniest novels ever written. When Flora arrives in Howling, she meets her odd relatives, who live in neglected, ramshackle \\"Cold Comfort Farm\\", where they still wash the dishes with twigs, and have cows named Graceless, Pointless, Feckless, and Aimless. Headed by a seventy-nine year old matriarch, Flora's aunt, Ada Doom Starkadder, who has not been right in the head since she \\"saw something nasty happen in the woodshed\\" nearly seventy years ago, they are a motley and strange crew indeed. Confronted with their dismal and gloomy existence, Flora sets about trying to put things to right.<br /><br />Peppered with eccentric, memorable characters, this book will take the reader on a journey not easily forgotten. It is one that is sure to make the reader revisit this novel yet again, like an old friend who is missed too soon.	2005-09-11
61710:US	49355567	R2G8WLYCYA3K4D	B0007EPKWC	59773996	The daughter of time,	Books	5	1	1	N	N	ENGLISH HISTORY AND MYSTERY ALL ROLLED INTO ONE...	This is a wonderful genre bending book...part mystery, part history. Written by Scotswoman Elizabeth MacIntosh, who wrote under the pen name Josephine Tey, it was first published in 1951. It is tragic that the author died in 1952 and was never to know the pleasure that this book would bring to generations of readers and that the Mystery Writers of America would ultimately rank it fourth among the one hundred best mysteries ever written.<br /><br />The title of the book is derived from a historical source, as it is attributable to Sir Francis Bacon, \\"For truth is rightly named after the daughter of time, and not of authority.\\" The book itself is not a traditional mystery but rather an application of deductive reasoning to an actual historical event. The event in question is the murder of the princes in the tower, sons of King Edward IV, allegedly by their uncle, Richard III, who eventually usurped the English throne after the death of his brother. It has been widely held that Richard III did, indeed, murder the two young princes, his nephews, in order to secure his claim to the throne.<br /><br />The reader is introduced to Scotland Yard Inspector Alan Grant, who is hospitalized and recovering from injuries sustained in the line of duty. While convalescing, he becomes intrigued by a picture of a portrait of Richard III, a likeness with which he is unfamiliar. Grant is puzzled that someone with such a sensitive face could have been such a monster as to murder his two nephews in cold blood. So, our intrepid Inspector decides that he will reconsider the evidence upon which such a dastardly assumption has been based. With the help of an American researcher doing the necessary legwork, Grant compiles enough archival historical fact that incrementally helps him formulate a new theory as to who actually may have murdered the princes in the tower.<br /><br />This analysis and reformulation is done as though it were being argued to a jury. Indeed, so persuasive is Inspector Grant through the application of some insightful deductive reasoning and clever dialogue that the reader comes away thinking that Grant has solved one of the most intriguing historical mysteries of all time. This is certainly an unusual book conceptually but one that succeeds brilliantly. It should appeal to those readers who enjoy having a mystery unraveled, as well as to those who harbor a love of English history. Bravo!rant through the application of some insightful deductive reasoning and clever dialogue that the reader comes away thinking that Grant has solved one of the most intriguing historical mysteries of all time. This is certainly an unusual book conceptually but one that succeeds brilliantly. It should appeal to those readers who enjoy having a mystery unraveled, as well as to those who harbor a love of English history. Bravo!	2005-09-11
67509:US	49355567	R3VG3HLEA2RALR	8535901663	98309428	Chang e Eng	Books	4	0	0	N	N	THE DOUBLE BOY...	This is the Portuguese text edition of \\"Chang and Eng\\", an ambitious and intriguing debut novel, which is based upon conjoined twins, Chang and Eng, who were born in Siam during the nineteenth century. It is through them that the term \\"Siamese Twins\\" entered the vernacular. Here, the author takes known facts about these famous twins and weaves an expertly woven story about their lives, while attempting to individualize them, giving each of them their own distinct and unique personality.<br /><br />The author tells the story of the conjoined twins through the first person narration of Eng. Born in 1811 in a house boat on the Mekong River in Siam, which is now known as Thailand, Chang and Eng entered the world linked together at the chest by a fleshy band of cartilage. It would be this short band of flesh that would forever bind them together, ensuring that they would never have a truly private moment. For their entire lives, they would be bound to each other, and the two would be forced to live as one.<br /><br />The author explores their private and often strange lives, which the reader views through Eng's eyes. It is through his intimate thoughts that the reader envisions how the twins may have possibly viewed their own lives. The reader follows the path that their lives took, from their poverty stricken childhood on the Mekong River to their presentation to the King of Siam. It then shows how, as adolescents, they came to arrive in America, where they were displayed as oddities. Eventually, they became an international sensation, becoming nineteenth century celebrities.<br /><br />Amazingly, they went on to marry two sisters, Adelaide and Sarah, with whom they fathered a total of twenty-one children. Chang and Eng set up house in North Carolina, where they raised their family. Still, this book is not so much about the factual portion of their lives, but rather, about the thoughts of Eng, as he and Chang pass through life together. It is a very intimate, insightful look at their lives and, in particular, the longings of Eng to experience life as most do, as one and not as two.<br /><br />This is a well-written and delicately nuanced work of historical fiction that is highly imaginative. Instead of having the reader remain on the outside of the lives of Chang and Eng, looking in, the author manages to take the reader into their lives, having the reader look out onto the world from the perspective of Eng. Through Eng, the reader sees the twins as having two very distinct and unique personalities and realizes the angst that they must have experienced in never being able to have a truly private moment. At times, Chang and Eng appear to have had a love-hate relationship. This is a poignant and haunting look at these two individuals, who were, by necessity, constrained to live as one.<br /><br />For those who are intrigued by the lives of Chang and Eng, but would prefer a purely biographical treatment, \\"The Two\\" by Irving Wallace and Amy Wallace is excellent and highly recommended.look at their lives and, in particular, the longings of Eng to experience life as most do, as one and not as two.<br /><br />This is a well-written and delicately nuanced work of historical fiction that is highly imaginative. Instead of having the reader remain on the outside of the lives of Chang and Eng, looking in, the author manages to take the reader into their lives, having the reader look out onto the world from the perspective of Eng. Through Eng, the reader sees the twins as having two very distinct and unique personalities and realizes the angst that they must have experienced in never being able to have a truly private moment. At times, Chang and Eng appear to have had a love-hate relationship. This is a poignant and haunting look at these two individuals, who were, by necessity, constrained to live as one.<br /><br />For those who are intrigued by the lives of Chang and Eng, but would prefer a purely biographical treatment, \\"The Two\\" by Irving Wallace and Amy Wallace is excellent and highly recommended.	2005-09-08
71178:US	49355567	R26GXUJQH2DYEV	0743225805	592016606	21 Dog Years: A Cube Dweller's Tale	Books	1	3	16	N	Y	A WITLESS WASTE OF TIME...	I bought this book, thinking that it would offer some insight into Amazon.com in terms of what it was like to work there during its halcyon days.  Touted as a funny memoir, among other things, I was to discover that it was none of what was promised. In fact, the book was painfully difficult to read, as it was very poorly written, decidedly not funny, and offered little insight into what it really was like to work at Amazon. It was totally sophomoric in terms of what it did say.<br /><br />The author should be thankful that he was not fired by Amazon, as that is what he richly deserved to have happen based upon his own account of what he was like as an employee. He was a total  slacker who treated customers with the contempt that he felt that they deserved. He was totally wasteful of the company's resources. He proudly stole supplies in bulk from the company. When toys were given to him for review purposes, he not only did not bother to review them, he then refused to return the toys to Amazon. He may think that all this is hilarious. Unfortunately, I do not. Reading this drivel felt like it took twenty-one dog years.<br /><br />Moreover, this book was so poorly written, I am surprised that a reputable publisher went ahead with the expense of actually publishing it. I guess that the name Amazon carries a great deal of weight for which the author should be eternally grateful. I doubt that had he written a book titled, \\"21 Dog Years: Doing time @ Sears.Com\\", substituting Sears for Amazon, that he would have found a publisher. Don't waste your time with this drivel. If you want to read a well-written, interesting book about working at Amazon, read \\"Amazonia: Five Years at the Epicenter of the Dot. Com Juggernaut\\" by James Marcus.	2005-09-06
74428:US	49355567	R1RGOGH8I9RU7K	0785749314	86720325	Buena Tierra (Good Earth) (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A PROFOUND STORY SIMPLY TOLD...	This is the Spanish text edition of a 1932 Pulitzer Prize winning novel that is still a standout today. Deceptive in its simplicity, it is a story built around a flawed human being and a teetering socio-economic system, as well as one that is layered with profound themes. The cadence of the author's writing is also of note, as it rhythmically lends itself to the telling of the story, giving it a very distinct voice. No doubt the author's writing style was influenced by her own immersion in Chinese culture, as she grew up and lived in China, the daughter of missionaries.<br /><br />This is the story of the cyclical nature of life, of the passions and desires that motivate a human being, of good and evil, and of the desire to survive and thrive against great odds. It begins with the story of an illiterate, poor, peasant farmer, Wang Lung, who ventures from the rural countryside and goes to town to the great house of Hwang to obtain a bride from those among the rank of slave. There, he is given the slave O-lan as his bride.<br /><br />Selfless, hardworking, and a bearer of sons, the plain-faced O-lan supports Wang Lung's veneration of the land and his desire to acquire more land. She stays with him through thick and thin, through famine and very lean times, working alongside him on the land, making great sacrifices, and raising his children. As a family, they weather the tumultuousness of pre-revolutionary China in the 1920s, only to find themselves the recipient of riches beyond their dreams. At the first opportunity, they buy land from the great house of Hwang, whose expenses appear to be exceeding their income.<br /><br />With the passing of time, Wang Lung buys more and more land from the house of Hwang, until he owns it all, as his veneration of the land is always paramount. With O-lan at this side, his family continues to prosper. His life becomes more complicated, however, the richer he gets. Wang Lung then commits a life-changing act that pierces O-lan's heart in the most profoundly heartbreaking way.<br /><br />As the years pass, his sons become educated and literate, and the family continues to prosper. With the great house of Hwang on the skids, an opportunity to buy their house, the very same house from where he had fetched O-lan many years ago, becomes available. Pressed upon to buy that house by his sons, who do not share Wang Lung's veneration for the land and rural life, he buys the house. The country mice now have become city mice.<br /><br />This is a potent, thematically complex story, brimming with irony, yet simply told against a framework of mounting social change. It is a story that stands as a parable in many ways and is one that certainly should be read. It illustrates the timeless dichotomy between the young and the old, the old and the new, and the rich and the poor. It is no wonder that this beautifully written book won a Pulitzer Prize and is considered a classic masterpiece. Bravo!in the most profoundly heartbreaking way.<br /><br />As the years pass, his sons become educated and literate, and the family continues to prosper. With the great house of Hwang on the skids, an opportunity to buy their house, the very same house from where he had fetched O-lan many years ago, becomes available. Pressed upon to buy that house by his sons, who do not share Wang Lung's veneration for the land and rural life, he buys the house. The country mice now have become city mice.<br /><br />This is a potent, thematically complex story, brimming with irony, yet simply told against a framework of mounting social change. It is a story that stands as a parable in many ways and is one that certainly should be read. It illustrates the timeless dichotomy between the young and the old, the old and the new, and the rich and the poor. It is no wonder that this beautifully written book won a Pulitzer Prize and is considered a classic masterpiece. Bravo!	2005-09-04
74786:US	49355567	R2DVHVBJ0WAMKF	1590862929	584095688	My Ántonia (Classic Collection (Brilliance Audio))	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A TRUE AMERICAN CLASSIC...	I first read this book when I was in junior high school. I admit that, at the time, I did not appreciate the strengths of the book and the quality of its writing. I am quite glad that I decided to give it another chance, as, having re-read it,  I now understand why it is considered to be a classic in literature. It is simply a beautifully written book, covering many of the themes that one stumbles across in life and coalescing them into a work of extraordinary breadth.<br /><br />The book is the story of two young people, Jim Burden and Antonia Shimerda. They meet for the first time when Jim is ten years old and Antonia is fourteen. Recently orphaned, Jim has moved to the Great Prairie to live with his grandparents in Nebraska. Antonia, on the other hand, has been wrenched from her homeland in Bohemia, emigrating with her parents to the United States and finding herself in Nebraska. Jim and Antonia's chance encounter on a train sets the stage for the forging of a friendship and unconditional love that time will not diminish.<br /><br />The book relates the harshness of immigrant life through the eyes of Jim, who narrates the events contained in the book. There is a relentless stoicism about the book, which is written in spare, clear prose. With intense imagery and descriptive exactitude, late nineteenth century Nebraska comes to life. It also relates the paths that each of the characters choose to follow, as well as the vicissitudes of life that mold and shape them in ways that no one would have imagined.<br /><br />The focus of the book, which is also a coming of age tale, seems to be on the female characters and their strengths. All the women in it seem to be survivors, despite the hardships that they encounter. This is, without a doubt, a life affirming book, wrought with great feeling and a decided sense of time and place. Yet, despite its poignancy, the book is surprisingly unsentimental and straightforward. It is a testament to the author's literary talent that this book has emerged as a timeless classic. Bravo!t this book has emerged as a timeless classic. Bravo!	2005-09-04
74938:US	49355567	R27N0845PSM4UW	0007140851	101423143	Falling Angels	Books	4	0	0	N	N	DECEPTIONS AND PERCEPTIONS...	This book covers the period in the lives of two families that stretches from January 1901, the end of the Victorian era, to May 1910, the end of the Edwardian one. The lives of these two families, the Colemans and the Waterhouses, converge and become inextricably woven together when they inadvertently meet at a cemetery while paying their respects to deceased loved ones. Unbeknownst to them, their lives are moving inexorably towards a tragic denouement, one that is to have ramifications for both families.<br /><br />Two of the daughters of these respective families, Lavinia Waterhouse and Maude Coleman, find that they have formed the beginning of a friendship during the brief interlude at the cemetery. The two girls also befriend Simon Field, the son of one of the gravediggers at the cemetery. The friendship of the two girls is cemented when they later discover that they are to be neighbors, as through happenstance the Waterhouse family moves onto a property adjacent to that of the Colemans. Despite differences in social class and personal taste, as the Waterhouses are definitely sentimentally bourgeois and the Colemans have pretensions to more refinement, the families are brought together, however unwillingly, through the friendship between Lavinia and Maude.<br /><br />The mothers of these two girls are unable to form a true friendship, as stolid Gertrude Waterhouse and pretty Kitty Coleman are unable to find much common ground. Gertrude is bound in tradition, while Kitty, dissatisfied with her marriage and her life, is looking to escape tradition and expand the role allotted in society to women. Never the twain shall meet, as these women will never see eye-to-eye, despite the friendship between Lavinia and Maude.<br /><br />This is a well-plotted novel with each character adding his or her perspective to the events that unfold, many of which are of a secretive nature. Even the husbands, Albert Waterhouse and Richard Coleman, have something to say that contributes to the development of the story, as does Richard Coleman's mother, Edith, as do the Coleman's maid, Jenny Whitby, and their cook, Dorothy Baker. Lavinia's younger sister, Ivy May, who plays a small but pivotal role, also has her say, as does Kitty's admirer, John Jackson. There are also a number of twists and turns in the tale.<br /><br />The story is told in the clean, spare prose that fans of the author have come to expect. It is told through first person narratives, and it is almost as if the narratives were taken from the personal diary or journal of each character. Therein lies the rub, as the author is unable to make the voice of each character truly distinguishable from that of the others. The book suffers somewhat from the failure of the author to develop a truly unique voice for each one. This is, however, the only failing of this otherwise absorbing and intriguing story that is suffused with period detail. This is an otherwise excellent book that fans of the author will enjoy, as will those who love historical fiction.to the development of the story, as does Richard Coleman's mother, Edith, as do the Coleman's maid, Jenny Whitby, and their cook, Dorothy Baker. Lavinia's younger sister, Ivy May, who plays a small but pivotal role, also has her say, as does Kitty's admirer, John Jackson. There are also a number of twists and turns in the tale.<br /><br />The story is told in the clean, spare prose that fans of the author have come to expect. It is told through first person narratives, and it is almost as if the narratives were taken from the personal diary or journal of each character. Therein lies the rub, as the author is unable to make the voice of each character truly distinguishable from that of the others. The book suffers somewhat from the failure of the author to develop a truly unique voice for each one. This is, however, the only failing of this otherwise absorbing and intriguing story that is suffused with period detail. This is an otherwise excellent book that fans of the author will enjoy, as will those who love historical fiction.	2005-09-04
75010:US	49355567	R1DRKT9RYZWDKH	0452287022	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring, Deluxe Edition	Books	5	18	19	N	N	BEAUTIFULLY CRAFTED HISTORICAL FICTION...	This gifted author weaves a mesmerizing tale around Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer's most famous painting, creating an incandescent and luminous work of her own. His painting is a simple, though enigmatic, portrait of a girl with a pearl earring, about which little is known. The author, however, a born storyteller, creates a living, breathing story around it, using a singular, first person narrative. Told in spare, elegant prose, the author leaps into literary renown with this book.<br /><br />The events in the book are viewed through the eyes of Griet, a sixteen year old Dutch girl, whose changed family circumstances force her into taking a position as a maid in the home of a renowned painter, the taciturn Johannes Vermeer. There, the painter resides with his tempestuous wife, Catharina, their brood of unruly children, his commanding and shrewd mother-in-law, Maria Thins, and their loyal housekeeper and cook, Tanneke. The author lovingly details seventeenth century life in the Dutch city of Delft. It is here that Griet's story unfolds.<br /><br />Sensitive and perceptive, Griet is attuned to the under currents in the Vermeer household and, at first, takes care not to draw attention to herself. Still, she, the daughter of a tile painter, is curious about Vermeer's artistry and is drawn to his work and his methods. Vermeer, sensing a kindred artistic spirit in Griet, draws her into his world of paint, color, light, and beauty, creating an intimacy of the spirit between the two.<br /><br />Still, Griet, a girl on the brink of becoming a woman, finds herself confused and breathlessly desiring more than she may have. Her longing for more than a communion of the spirit with Vermeer is palpable. It is, therefore, not surprising that the undercurrents in the Vermeer household should come bubbling to the surface and engulf Griet, much to her consternation.<br /><br />This is a stunning literary work that fully realizes the promise that the author showed in her debut novel, \\"The Virgin Blue\\". She is an author that understands the less is often more, and she makes every word count. Deliberate and spare, her prose is lyrical in its simplicity, weaving a tale that will keep the reader spellbound. This is historical fiction at its finest. Bravo!The Virgin Blue\\". She is an author that understands the less is often more, and she makes every word count. Deliberate and spare, her prose is lyrical in its simplicity, weaving a tale that will keep the reader spellbound. This is historical fiction at its finest. Bravo!	2005-09-04
75046:US	49355567	RFTU1R5RBCP7N	0769404138	991280088	The Color of Water: a Black Man's Tribute to His White Mother	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A LOVING TRIBUTE TO MOM...	This book is, indeed, a tribute to the author's mother. In it, the author, a man whose mother was white and his father black, tells two stories: that of his mother and his own. Tautly written in spare, clear prose, it is a wonderful story of a bi-racial family who succeeded and achieved the American dream, despite the societal obstacles placed in its way.<br /><br />The author's mother was a Polish Orthodox Jew who migrated to America at the age of two with her family during the early nineteen twenties. They ultimately settled down in Virginia, where she led an isolated and lonely life; shunned by whites because she was Jewish and shunned by blacks because she was white. She was raised in a predominantly black neighborhood, where her father, a despicable and harsh man who brutalized his handicapped wife, ran a local grocery store, where he priced gouged his black clientele.<br /><br />She left home and moved to New York when she was nineteen and never looked back. She met and married the author's father, a black man, when mixed race marriages were still frowned upon by both whites and blacks. Still, she always felt more comfortable around blacks than around whites. When he died sixteen years later, she married another black man who nurtured her eight children by the author's father and proceeded to give her four more children.<br /><br />The author tells of his childhood, of his family, and of the issue of race that ultimately colored his life while growing up in predominantly black neighborhoods, where his mother stood out like a sore thumb because of the color of her skin. It was always an issue his mother avoided discussing with him, as for her it was not an issue. It was not until the author wrote this book that his mother discussed the issue of race within the context of her own life. From this dialogue emerges a fascinating look at the issues of race, as well as religion, and how it impacts on an individual's identity within our race conscious society.<br /><br />It is also a very personal story. While the author's family was economically disadvantaged, his eccentric and independent mother always stressed education. She was a strict disciplinarian who brooked no nonsense from her twelve children. A convert to Christianity through her first husband, with whom she founded a Baptist church, she provided her children with the will to succeed. Consequently, all twelve eventually went to college and did her proud. The story of this unique family is told from two distinct, parallel perspectives: that of the author and that of his mother. While both are interesting, it is his mother's story that dominates this beautifully written book, which is, indeed, a tribute to her. It is truly a story told from the heart, as the love that the author has for his mother is evident with every written word.r />It is also a very personal story. While the author's family was economically disadvantaged, his eccentric and independent mother always stressed education. She was a strict disciplinarian who brooked no nonsense from her twelve children. A convert to Christianity through her first husband, with whom she founded a Baptist church, she provided her children with the will to succeed. Consequently, all twelve eventually went to college and did her proud. The story of this unique family is told from two distinct, parallel perspectives: that of the author and that of his mother. While both are interesting, it is his mother's story that dominates this beautifully written book, which is, indeed, a tribute to her. It is truly a story told from the heart, as the love that the author has for his mother is evident with every written word.	2005-09-04
75250:US	49355567	R2RKAKLHTP64GM	0671445987	370554969	Ordeal by Hunger : The Donner Party	Books	4	0	1	N	N	SURVIVAL AND CANNABILISM IN THE SIERRA MOUNTAINS...	This book presents an account of the Donner Party, a wagon train of about eighty-seven people who in July 1846 started off for California via a new, untried route through the Sierras. Unfortunately, this particular wagon train of pioneers would go down in history due to the horror and tragedy that it was to meet along its way. Stranded in the Sierras amidst its harshest winter in years, with unparalleled snowfall and frigid temperatures, only little more than half, mostly women and children, were to survive their unbelievable deprivation and suffering.<br /><br />This wagon train was a loose confederation of strangers who originally were part of another wagon train, but who collectively branched off by consensus to try a new, though untried and unproven, overland route through the Sierras that was alleged to be shorter. Their decision to take this new route was one that would haunt them for the rest of their journey, as it was not what it was purported to be. The inexperience of these travelers, the poor decisions that were sometimes made, and their seeming inability to truly unify as one entity contributed to their ultimate debacle. They were, after all, representative of humanity at large. Some of them were good, brave, and unselfish. Some were people with whom one would not wish to shake hands.<br /><br />Beleaguered by thirst as they trekked across a desert, marauded by Indians along the way, plagued by the loss of necessary oxen and cattle, beset by accidents and personal squabbles that would sometimes turn deadly, they would finally reach the Sierras and begin their perilous crossing, only to find themselves snowbound at the summit while within sight of the pass that they needed to cross to be home free. Trapped by the weather in early November, they would set up a make-shift camp, never thinking about just how long their encampment would last. With minimal food supplies at their disposal, these intrepid, westward-ho emigrants would find themselves trapped for months, facing incredible hardships that would tax them beyond human endurance. Some would resort to cannibalism in order to survive.<br /><br />This is a riveting story about survival of the fittest, about personal sacrifice, and human foibles. It is a story not only of those ill-fated pioneers but of those who would attempt to rescue them, often at great personal cost. It is a story that reflects the human spirit, both good and bad, in time of crisis. It is a story of often selfless heroism. It is also a story of greed and craven opportunism. While some of the book is politically incorrect, it is reflective of the times in which these pioneers lived, as well as that of when this book was first written.<br /><br />It is, however, remiss that the maps included in this book do little to illustrate the deadly journey undertaken by these pioneers. Still, the lack of comprehensive maps does not unduly detract from the powerful impact that this story has on the reader. Moreover, although the book was published in 1936, the author, a trained historian, added a supplement in 1960, which is included in this edition of his book. This supplement serves to correct errors, as well as incorporate additional relevant material not available at the time of original publication.<br /><br />Those who enjoy tales of survival will, undoubtedly, find this gripping tale well worth reading.months, facing incredible hardships that would tax them beyond human endurance. Some would resort to cannibalism in order to survive.<br /><br />This is a riveting story about survival of the fittest, about personal sacrifice, and human foibles. It is a story not only of those ill-fated pioneers but of those who would attempt to rescue them, often at great personal cost. It is a story that reflects the human spirit, both good and bad, in time of crisis. It is a story of often selfless heroism. It is also a story of greed and craven opportunism. While some of the book is politically incorrect, it is reflective of the times in which these pioneers lived, as well as that of when this book was first written.<br /><br />It is, however, remiss that the maps included in this book do little to illustrate the deadly journey undertaken by these pioneers. Still, the lack of comprehensive maps does not unduly detract from the powerful impact that this story has on the reader. Moreover, although the book was published in 1936, the author, a trained historian, added a supplement in 1960, which is included in this edition of his book. This supplement serves to correct errors, as well as incorporate additional relevant material not available at the time of original publication.<br /><br />Those who enjoy tales of survival will, undoubtedly, find this gripping tale well worth reading.	2005-09-04
75298:US	49355567	R3TC0BFT1YCBDE	0451197224	396569937	The Heart of A Witch	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	I HAVE CHANGED NO MAN INTO BEAST'S SHAPE...	In upstate New York, nestled deep within the Catskill Mountains, lies Green Hollow, a small, picturesque town. Its main attraction is a beautiful Victorian mansion that functions as a popular, year round inn called the Lockley Arms. Right across the street from the inn lives a set of twins, Kip and Shelley Davis. For them, the inn has always held an attraction.<br /><br />As they get older, they find themselves drawn to the inn even more. Not even a near tragic and inexplicable event involving the inn and one of the twins can keep them away. When they are finally of an age to work, they get jobs at the inn, working summers and after school. The twins are an inquisitive duo, and after the inn's owners, the Lockleys, die in a mysterious car accident, they become decidedly curious about the inn's young owner, Snow Mansell, and some of her special guests.<br /><br />The curiosity of the twins finally pays off, and they eventually find themselves immersed in Wiccan rituals and mysteries, apprenticed to the coven of modern day witches that meet at the inn. These are witches, however, whose resolve is to \\"do no harm\\", a resolve conceptually similar to that inherent in the Hippocratic oath that doctors take. Involved in the magic generated by the coven, these newly apprenticed, young witches will find their lives changing in ways that they could never have imagined.<br /><br />Unfortunately, although the twins are having the time of their lives at the inn, learning the magical, Wiccan rituals of the coven, there are evil forces about in Green Hollow. When a young child disappears and dead owls begin routinely appearing all over town, this signifies a change in the town from which it may never recover. Moreover, Shelley keeps seeing a mysterious hooded figure, skulking about in the darkness that gives her a sense of foreboding. Something evil is, indeed, afoot in the town of Green Hollow.<br /><br />Having read one of the author's other books, \\"Julian's House\\", which is a well-written, haunted house story, I had high expectations of this book, which were, for the most part, met. This is a well-written book, and I found myself loath to stop turning its pages, entranced by the unfolding story, as the author spins such an engrossing tale. Towards the end, however, the story careens somewhat, taking an unexpectedly darker turn. The witches, it seems, have secrets, some that would be anathema to most people. Moreover, the ending gives the reader pause. It is as if the author had no where to go with the story and devised a way in which all loose ends could be put to bed. Notwithstanding this criticism, this is an enjoyable book, if one is interested in this genre.ll-written, haunted house story, I had high expectations of this book, which were, for the most part, met. This is a well-written book, and I found myself loath to stop turning its pages, entranced by the unfolding story, as the author spins such an engrossing tale. Towards the end, however, the story careens somewhat, taking an unexpectedly darker turn. The witches, it seems, have secrets, some that would be anathema to most people. Moreover, the ending gives the reader pause. It is as if the author had no where to go with the story and devised a way in which all loose ends could be put to bed. Notwithstanding this criticism, this is an enjoyable book, if one is interested in this genre.	2005-09-04
75401:US	49355567	R1UO0SB2Y4LP0M	B000B6RYS4	707805727	O Pioneers	Books	4	1	1	N	N	THE LAND TO WHICH WE BELONG...	In this, the author's second published work, the author writes about that which she knew best, early pioneer life in Nebraska, the place to which she and her family moved in 1883 when she was a mere slip of a girl. She eventually attended the University of Nebraska, graduating in 1995, at a time when most girls did no such thing.<br /><br />In this work, the author was on very sure footing. Her clear, straightforward prose lends itself capably to the story of early pioneers who went to Nebraska and set down roots, weathering the exigencies that often plagued a newcomer to a particular region. It is a surprisingly unsentimental look at pioneer life.<br /><br />This thematically complex, but simply written story focuses primarily on Alexandra Bergson, the intelligent, independent, resourceful, and strong-willed daughter of pioneer John Bergson. Upon his death he did what was then the nearly unthinkable. He left his land in the hands of his oldest child, his daughter, Alexandra, rather than in those of his sons, recognizing in his daughter those qualities that would ensure that his land would prosper under her stewardship.<br /><br />This then is the story of not only Alexandra but of that land and those whose sustenance depended upon its fruitfulness. The reader follows the Bergson clan as they live their lives and interact with their neighbors. Under Alexandra's skillful management, the Bergson farm prospers. As the farm prospers, so does its environs, as the area becomes a bustling center of activity with more and more settlers developing the land around that of the Bergsons.<br /><br />Thematically, the book explores the vicissitudes of life, as well as its life-affirming moments. As in all lives, the characters in this book experience moments of high drama and great tragedy, as well as memorable moments of love and hate. All this is grounded within the context of pioneer life, with all its hardships and privations, as well as its occasional abundance. The author skillfully re-creates a melting pot of the many nationalities that cultivated the land known as Nebraska.<br /><br />This is a book that those who like reading about pioneer life will certainly enjoy, as will those who simply like a well-written book with a tale to tell. This classic novel was also adapted for a Hallmark Hall of Fame film, starring Jessica Lange in the role of Alexandra Bergson.killfully re-creates a melting pot of the many nationalities that cultivated the land known as Nebraska.<br /><br />This is a book that those who like reading about pioneer life will certainly enjoy, as will those who simply like a well-written book with a tale to tell. This classic novel was also adapted for a Hallmark Hall of Fame film, starring Jessica Lange in the role of Alexandra Bergson.	2005-09-04
76569:US	49355567	R3VFDYILTAR0P9	B0007G39EG	405512223	The daughter of time	Books	5	0	0	N	N	PART ENGLISH HISTORY...PART ENGLISH MYSTERY...	This is a wonderful genre bending book...part mystery, part history. Written by Scotswoman Elizabeth MacIntosh, who wrote under the pen name Josephine Tey, it was first published in 1951. It is tragic that the author died in 1952 and was never to know the pleasure that this book would bring to generations of readers and that the Mystery Writers of America would ultimately rank it fourth among the one hundred best mysteries ever written.<br /><br />The title of the book is derived from a historical source, as it is attributable to Sir Francis Bacon, \\"For truth is rightly named after the daughter of time, and not of authority.\\" The book itself is not a traditional mystery but rather an application of deductive reasoning to an actual historical event. The event in question is the murder of the princes in the tower, sons of King Edward IV, allegedly by their uncle, Richard III, who eventually usurped the English throne after the death of his brother. It has been widely held that Richard III did, indeed, murder the two young princes, his nephews, in order to secure his claim to the throne.<br /><br />The reader is introduced to Scotland Yard Inspector Alan Grant, who is hospitalized and recovering from injuries sustained in the line of duty. While convalescing, he becomes intrigued by a picture of a portrait of Richard III, a likeness with which he is unfamiliar. Grant is puzzled that someone with such a sensitive face could have been such a monster as to murder his two nephews in cold blood. So, our intrepid Inspector decides that he will reconsider the evidence upon which such a dastardly assumption has been based. With the help of an American researcher doing the necessary legwork, Grant compiles enough archival historical fact that incrementally helps him formulate a new theory as to who actually may have murdered the princes in the tower.<br /><br />This analysis and reformulation is done as though it were being argued to a jury. Indeed, so persuasive is Inspector Grant through the application of some insightful deductive reasoning and clever dialogue that the reader comes away thinking that Grant has solved one of the most intriguing historical mysteries of all time. This is certainly an unusual book conceptually but one that succeeds brilliantly. It should appeal to those readers who enjoy having a mystery unraveled, as well as to those who harbor a love of English history. Bravo!rant through the application of some insightful deductive reasoning and clever dialogue that the reader comes away thinking that Grant has solved one of the most intriguing historical mysteries of all time. This is certainly an unusual book conceptually but one that succeeds brilliantly. It should appeal to those readers who enjoy having a mystery unraveled, as well as to those who harbor a love of English history. Bravo!	2005-09-03
85615:US	49355567	RX7VKQUYU40KW	0965903532	7966085	The Lady and the Unicorn	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A TAPESTRY OF MEDIEVAL LIFE AND ART...	Once again, Tracy Chevalier, author of a number of well-written works of historical fiction, lets her imagination run wild, weaving her story around another actual work of art. In this book, the author builds her story around the series of medieval tapestries known as \\"The Lady and the Unicorn\\", currently hanging in a museum in France, creating a work of historical fiction that is somewhat interesting and moderately enjoyable. Although not as well written as her best selling novel, \\"Girl with a Pearl Earring\\",  or even her debut novel, \\"The Virgin Blue\\",  those who like their historical fiction with some romantic overtones  will be pleased with the author's efforts.<br /><br />Towards the end of the fifteenth century, a talented, handsome, and cocky painter, Nicolas des Innocents, is commissioned to design and paint scenes depicting the Battle of Nancy for a series of  tapestries. His paintings would then be enlarged in preparation for having the images woven into tapestries by a master weaver in Brussels. The commission is given to Nicholas by a prominent French nobleman, Jean Le Viste, a cold man who is given to self-importance and wishes to memorialize his status, as his star in on the ascendancy in the Royal Court.<br /><br />Nicolas soon discovers, however, that it was Jean Le Viste's wife, Genevieve de Nanterre, who suggested him for the commission. She lets him know, however,  that she does not wish for the tapestries to depict the Battle of Nancy but, rather, scenes of a lady and a unicorn. Genevieve de Nanterre, a pious and unhappily married woman,  leaves it to him to  convince her husband that this new idea should replace the Battle of Nancy as the subject of the tapestries. Nicolas manages to do this, and so it begins.<br /><br />Nicolas is not only a fine painter but also a confirmed lothario who falls for Le Viste's daughter, a beautiful teenager named  Claude. Of course, Nicholas has already dallied with Marie-Celeste, one of the household's maids with the usual, not unexpected, result, a fact that will eventually lead to some serious personal consequences for him. Meanwhile, Genevieve de Nanterre,  who  would rather be a nun than married to Jean Le Viste, discovers that her daughter reciprocates the painter's passion.  Claude is ultimately shipped off to a nunnery to repent for her sins and to remain chaste until a suitable betrothal may be made for her.  Genevieve's motives in doing so, however, are not wholly altruistic.<br /><br />Eventually, Nicholas travels to the workshop of master weaver Georges de la Chappelle, who has been selected to convert the paintings to tapestries. Nicholas meets with cartoonist, Philippe de la Tour, to ensure that the tapestries stay true to his paintings and that the process of enlarging them does not substantively change his seductive design. Of course, his stay in Brussels is made more pleasant by the fact that Georges de la Chappelle has a lovely daughter named Alienor, who is ripe for the picking.  Unfortunately, her father, for business reasons,  wishes to marry her off to the local tanner, a smelly brute whose noxious scent is a result of an expected occupational hazard. Unbeknownst to them all, however, Alienor has a secret admirer, whose love will eventually make right all that goes wrong.<br /><br />This is a mildly entertaining novel in which the underlying theme is seduction. The tale is told from the perspectives of each of the main characters through individual first person narratives. The lives of some of them become intertwined, because Nicolas des Innocents has come into contact with them. The story describes their lives and loves, as well as the impact that their lives have on the actual tapestries. The novel also gives a good deal of interesting information on the weavers' guild of the time and its practices, as well as information on the painstaking art of weaving high quality tapestries, such as that of \\"The Lady and the Unicorn\\".h the usual, not unexpected, result, a fact that will eventually lead to some serious personal consequences for him. Meanwhile, Genevieve de Nanterre,  who  would rather be a nun than married to Jean Le Viste, discovers that her daughter reciprocates the painter's passion.  Claude is ultimately shipped off to a nunnery to repent for her sins and to remain chaste until a suitable betrothal may be made for her.  Genevieve's motives in doing so, however, are not wholly altruistic.<br /><br />Eventually, Nicholas travels to the workshop of master weaver Georges de la Chappelle, who has been selected to convert the paintings to tapestries. Nicholas meets with cartoonist, Philippe de la Tour, to ensure that the tapestries stay true to his paintings and that the process of enlarging them does not substantively change his seductive design. Of course, his stay in Brussels is made more pleasant by the fact that Georges de la Chappelle has a lovely daughter named Alienor, who is ripe for the picking.  Unfortunately, her father, for business reasons,  wishes to marry her off to the local tanner, a smelly brute whose noxious scent is a result of an expected occupational hazard. Unbeknownst to them all, however, Alienor has a secret admirer, whose love will eventually make right all that goes wrong.<br /><br />This is a mildly entertaining novel in which the underlying theme is seduction. The tale is told from the perspectives of each of the main characters through individual first person narratives. The lives of some of them become intertwined, because Nicolas des Innocents has come into contact with them. The story describes their lives and loves, as well as the impact that their lives have on the actual tapestries. The novel also gives a good deal of interesting information on the weavers' guild of the time and its practices, as well as information on the painstaking art of weaving high quality tapestries, such as that of \\"The Lady and the Unicorn\\".	2005-08-29
88964:US	49355567	R3LWY3C36L2S1K	9996828093	73269393	LA Amante Del Politico/Never Call It Loving	Books	4	0	0	N	N	WHAT ELSE WOULD ONE CALL IT?...	This work of romantic historical fiction is a worthy effort by its noted author. With its title, taken from a poem by Elizabeth Barrett Browning, setting the stage, the book, based upon a true story, regales the reader with the nineteenth century love affair between Irish politician Charles Stewart Parnell and Katherine O'Shea, wife of one of his political colleagues.<br /><br />Often referred to as the \\"uncrowned King of Ireland\\" for his passionate partisanship and his advocacy for home rule, Charles Parnell was a man dedicated to the betterment of the lot of the Irish under British rule. He was a fairly single-minded individual, until the day that his path crossed that of beautiful Katherine O'Shea. From the moment that they met, it was love at first sight, and never would they waver from that path of true love, despite the scandal that their affair would one day cause.<br /><br />Locked into a loveless marriage with the dissolute and impecunious Captain William O'Shea, Katherine was the mother of three children when she first met Charles Parnell. These two star-crossed lovers of the prim and proper Victorian age would eventually risk everything to be together. Their private passion would become a public scandal that would make Katherine O'Shea a notorious woman and cause the \\"uncrowned King of Ireland\\" to lose his \\"crown\\" and be deposed from his position of power.<br /><br />This is a well-told story of romantic historical fiction by this notable author. Known for her historical fiction, the author manages to capture the essence of the period, as well as the passion that would cause these two individuals to flout the social mores of their time. Those readers who enjoy romantic historical fiction will enjoy reading about the love affair between Katherine O'Shea and Charles Stewart Parnell that would one day rock the very halls of Parliament.	2005-08-27
93484:US	49355567	R16LW51NB3USNW	8535901981	185651213	Marca Humana, A	Books	4	0	0	N	N	HE'S COME UNDONE...	This is the Portuguese text edition of the book, \\"The Human Stain\\". Overall, I liked this book, despite the author's oftentimes wordy and dense prose. It was an interesting look at one man's history, a proud man who was brought to heel and hoisted by his own petard in a most ironic way. It seems that the main protagonist in his book, Coleman Silk, an esteemed classics college professor, who almost single-handedly put small, liberal arts Athena college on the academic map, finds himself brought up on charges by the college for using a word that has dual meanings, one of which is racially offensive to blacks, in connection with two students. Coleman has never seen the students at the heart of the brouhaha, as they missed all their classes. Consequently, he has no idea what their racial makeup is when he uses the word that is to cause so much offense.<br /><br />Coleman is rightly outraged by his colleagues reaction towards him in connection with this incident and, in particular, by one colleague's virulent attempt to castigate him and paint him as the devil incarnate. Coleman then cuts off his nose to spite his face and resigns from the college, holding the college responsible for the death of his wife, when she dies shortly after learning of his disgrace. What the college does not know, and what makes the accusation so ironic, is that Coleman Silk is an African-American who has been passing for white. Therein lies the rub, as Coleman and his life slowly unravel.<br /><br />Coleman, now in his early seventies, is fighting mad about the way his once promising and respected life seems to be ending. He is not helping matters any, however, when he takes up with Faunia Farley, an under-educated, emotionally troubled janitor at the college who is half is age and has a great deal of personal baggage from her own turbulent past, including an abusive, Vietnam vet ex-husband who stalks her. Coleman is like a man possessed and seems to go into an emotional tailspin, seeking to right what went wrong. To that end he reaches out to writer Nathan Zuckerman, whom he befriends, and asks him to write his story, as he himself is unable to write it. Of course, Coleman is unable to write it, because he cannot do so without revealing the secret that he kept for fifty years from his wife, his children, his colleagues, and his friends.<br /><br />When tragedy strikes, Nathan Zuckerman is left to put the pieces together and discover what it was that made Coleman Silk the man that he was. This is a very compelling story. The most affecting parts of the book have to do with Coleman's early life, before he decided to pass. It is an indictment of race relations in America at the time of his decision, when someone perceived to be a black man was unable to be all that he could be. Coleman, a very bright and talented young man, seeking to be all that he could be without thinking about race, chose to pass. He was simply not interested in being a role model for those of his perceived race.<br /><br />There are parts of the novel, however, that do not ring true. His affair with the janitor is a little hard to believe. I suppose that the reason that Coleman and Faunia come together, other than the obvious sexual one, is because of the inherent, personal pathology that each one brings to the relationship. Of course, the relationship makes Coleman feel young again. Still, it is more distracting than enlightening in terms of the issues contained within the pages of this book. I also found her ex-husband to be more of a caricature and distraction more than anything else, though he is necessary to the plot.<br /><br />Still, there is much to like about this novel, if one can overlook the somewhat self-indulgent prose that probably could have used better editing. The issues of racial identity are interesting and are the ones that provide much food for thought. It is in these issues that the strength of the book lies, even though the questions that they raise remain unanswered. This is a good book that could have been a great one.swered. This is a good book that could have been a great one.	2005-08-24
94992:US	49355567	R10VUC91P3AEOR	9507313141	308565597	Chang y Eng (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	JUST WE TWO...	This is the Spanish text edition of an ambitious and intriguing debut novel, which is based upon conjoined twins, Chang and Eng, who were born in Siam during the nineteenth century. It is through them that the term \\"Siamese Twins\\" entered the vernacular. Here, the author takes known facts about these famous twins and weaves an expertly woven story about their lives, while attempting to individualize them, giving each of them their own distinct and unique personality.<br /><br />The author tells the story of the conjoined twins through the first person narration of Eng. Born in 1811 in a house boat on the Mekong River in Siam, which is now known as Thailand, Chang and Eng entered the world linked together at the chest by a fleshy band of cartilage. It would be this short band of flesh that would forever bind them together, ensuring that they would never have a truly private moment. For their entire lives, they would be bound to each other, and the two would be forced to live as one.<br /><br />The author explores their private and often strange lives, which the reader views through Eng's eyes. It is through his intimate thoughts that the reader envisions how the twins may have possibly viewed their own lives. The reader follows the path that their lives took, from their poverty stricken childhood on the Mekong River to their presentation to the King of Siam. It then shows how, as adolescents, they came to arrive in America, where they were displayed as oddities. Eventually, they became an international sensation, becoming nineteenth century celebrities.<br /><br />Amazingly, they went on to marry two sisters, Adelaide and Sarah, with whom they fathered a total of twenty-one children. Chang and Eng set up house in North Carolina, where they raised their family. Still, this book is not so much about the factual portion of their lives, but rather, about the thoughts of Eng, as he and Chang pass through life together. It is a very intimate, insightful look at their lives and, in particular, the longings of Eng to experience life as most do, as one and not as two.<br /><br />This is a well-written and delicately nuanced work of historical fiction that is highly imaginative. Instead of having the reader remain on the outside of the lives of Chang and Eng, looking in, the author manages to take the reader into their lives, having the reader look out onto the world from the perspective of Eng. Through Eng, the reader sees the twins as having two very distinct and unique personalities and realizes the angst that they must have experienced in never being able to have a truly private moment. At times, Chang and Eng appear to have had a love-hate relationship. This is a poignant and haunting look at these two individuals, who were, by necessity, constrained to live as one.and, in particular, the longings of Eng to experience life as most do, as one and not as two.<br /><br />This is a well-written and delicately nuanced work of historical fiction that is highly imaginative. Instead of having the reader remain on the outside of the lives of Chang and Eng, looking in, the author manages to take the reader into their lives, having the reader look out onto the world from the perspective of Eng. Through Eng, the reader sees the twins as having two very distinct and unique personalities and realizes the angst that they must have experienced in never being able to have a truly private moment. At times, Chang and Eng appear to have had a love-hate relationship. This is a poignant and haunting look at these two individuals, who were, by necessity, constrained to live as one.	2005-08-24
96586:US	49355567	R21FADECEACRG9	0425064433	265383011	The Keep Can	Books	5	1	1	N	N	SOMETHING WICKED THIS WAY COMES...	I first read this book over twenty years ago, when it was first released, and loved it. I decided that it was time to give it another go around to see if my original opinion of it still held. Well, time has certainly not diminished the power of this book to hold the reader in its thrall. I still love this book, and it remains my favorite book by this author.<br /><br />As far as horror stories go, this one is definitely up there with the best of them. The author has written a riveting page turner with this tautly written, inventive tale. The author has taken some vampire folklore and given it a new twist. In the hands of this master of the horror genre, the quintessential battle between good and evil takes on a new dimension.<br /><br />In Romania, deep in the heart of the Transylvanian Alps, lies the Dinu Pass. In April of 1941, a small squadron of German soldiers has been ordered to occupy a small, deserted, five hundred year old castle keep at the Dinu pass. From the beginning, Captain Klaus Woermann senses that there is something unusual about the keep. Looking as if it had just been built and inlaid with brass and nickel crosses in every corridor, crosses that the caretaker for the keep exhorts the Germans not to touch, the keep is an architectural oddity.<br /><br />Soon the games begin, as an unseen force begins murdering his men. Captain Woermann sends a message to the high command. To his dismay, they respond by sending a Nazi squadron of einsatzkommandos under the leadership of SS Major Kaempffer to quell whatever local guerilla activity is, undoubtedly, responsible for the murders. Soon, these death's head troopers begin succumbing to the same fate as their German Army counterparts, and all hell breaks loose.<br /><br />Enter the ailing Dr. Theodor Cuza, a Romanian Jew and former professor at the University of Bucharest. Although suffering from the ravages of scleroderma, he is ordered by the Nazis to the keep, as he is an expert in the history of the region. It is hoped that he will be able to shed some light on the mysterious keep and enable his hosts to defeat their unknown adversary.<br /><br />Accompanied by Magda, his daughter, they find themselves confronted with the cruelty of the Nazis, the unexpected kindness of Captain Woermann, and something from their worst nightmares that has them call into question their deepest beliefs. Then, a mysterious red-headed stranger with piercing blue eyes also appears, and nothing is ever the same again.<br /><br />This is one of the premier horror stories of all time. Bravo!ion. It is hoped that he will be able to shed some light on the mysterious keep and enable his hosts to defeat their unknown adversary.<br /><br />Accompanied by Magda, his daughter, they find themselves confronted with the cruelty of the Nazis, the unexpected kindness of Captain Woermann, and something from their worst nightmares that has them call into question their deepest beliefs. Then, a mysterious red-headed stranger with piercing blue eyes also appears, and nothing is ever the same again.<br /><br />This is one of the premier horror stories of all time. Bravo!	2005-08-23
97130:US	49355567	R1MK9GBK11VTED	0451081749	579745872	The Fog	Books	5	1	2	N	N	BE AFRAID...BE VERY AFRAID...	This is a superlative, well-crafted horror story with quite an original storyline. Taking place in foggy, old England, a dense, yellowish fog suddenly arises from the bowels of the earth, infiltrating the minds of all whom it envelops and removing all restraint. Suddenly, formerly sane individuals find themselves acting as if they were beings out of Dante's Inferno. It is a disaster from which there is seemingly no end.<br /><br />As the fog moves from place to place, it leaves in its wake a swath of grisly devastation, as murder, rape, mass suicide, and looting become a way of life. Even animals succumb to the fog, which turns treasured pets into killers that their owners cannot control. Only one man has managed to emerge with his sanity still intact, and a group of scientists in an underground laboratory are laboring to find out the reason for his seeming immunity. For in him lies the secret to the fog's destruction and the liberation of mankind from the effects of the fog. Time, however, is of the essence and is running out.<br /><br />This is really a terrific novel, well-paced, tautly written, and totally absorbing. It is an absolute page turner, with scenes of horror written in a spare, no nonsense, matter of fact style, making it all the more believable and horrific, all while tinged by a trace of dark humor. The tension is crisply maintained throughout the entire book from start to finish, which makes for a riveting read that is hard to put down. This is a must read for all those who love a good horror story. Bravo!	2005-08-22
97330:US	49355567	REIWLT8V2LX46	0671812858	170429737	Ordeal by Hunger	Books	4	2	2	N	N	SURVIVAL AND CANNIBALISM IN THE SIERRA MOUNTAINS...	This book presents an account of the Donner Party, a wagon train of about eighty-seven people who in July 1846 started off for California via a new, untried route through the Sierras. Unfortunately, this particular wagon train of pioneers would go down in history due to the horror and tragedy that it was to meet along its way. Stranded in the Sierras amidst its harshest winter in years, with unparalleled snowfall and frigid temperatures, only little more than half, mostly women and children, were to survive their unbelievable deprivation and suffering.<br /><br />This wagon train was a loose confederation of strangers who originally were part of another wagon train, but who collectively branched off by consensus to try a new, though untried and unproven, overland route through the Sierras that was alleged to be shorter. Their decision to take this new route was one that would haunt them for the rest of their journey, as it was not what it was purported to be. The inexperience of these travelers, the poor decisions that were sometimes made, and their seeming inability to truly unify as one entity contributed to their ultimate debacle. They were, after all, representative of humanity at large. Some of them were good, brave, and unselfish. Some were people with whom one would not wish to shake hands.<br /><br />Beleaguered by thirst as they trekked across a desert, marauded by Indians along the way, plagued by the loss of necessary oxen and cattle, beset by accidents and personal squabbles that would sometimes turn deadly, they would finally reach the Sierras and begin their perilous crossing, only to find themselves snowbound at the summit while within sight of the pass that they needed to cross to be home free. Trapped by the weather in early November, they would set up a make-shift camp, never thinking about just how long their encampment would last. With minimal food supplies at their disposal, these intrepid, westward-ho emigrants would find themselves trapped for months, facing incredible hardships that would tax them beyond human endurance. Some would resort to cannibalism in order to survive.<br /><br />This is a riveting story about survival of the fittest, about personal sacrifice, and human foibles. It is a story not only of those ill-fated pioneers but of those who would attempt to rescue them, often at great personal cost. It is a story that reflects the human spirit, both good and bad, in time of crisis. It is a story of often selfless heroism. It is also a story of greed and craven opportunism. While some of the book is politically incorrect, it is reflective of the times in which these pioneers lived, as well as that of when this book was first written.<br /><br />It is, however, remiss that the maps included in this book do little to illustrate the deadly journey undertaken by these pioneers. Still, the lack of comprehensive maps does not unduly detract from the powerful impact that this story has on the reader. Moreover, although the book was published in 1936, the author, a trained historian, added a supplement in 1960, which is included in this edition of his book. This supplement serves to correct errors, as well as incorporate additional relevant material not available at the time of original publication.<br /><br />Those who enjoy tales of survival will, undoubtedly, find this gripping tale well worth reading.months, facing incredible hardships that would tax them beyond human endurance. Some would resort to cannibalism in order to survive.<br /><br />This is a riveting story about survival of the fittest, about personal sacrifice, and human foibles. It is a story not only of those ill-fated pioneers but of those who would attempt to rescue them, often at great personal cost. It is a story that reflects the human spirit, both good and bad, in time of crisis. It is a story of often selfless heroism. It is also a story of greed and craven opportunism. While some of the book is politically incorrect, it is reflective of the times in which these pioneers lived, as well as that of when this book was first written.<br /><br />It is, however, remiss that the maps included in this book do little to illustrate the deadly journey undertaken by these pioneers. Still, the lack of comprehensive maps does not unduly detract from the powerful impact that this story has on the reader. Moreover, although the book was published in 1936, the author, a trained historian, added a supplement in 1960, which is included in this edition of his book. This supplement serves to correct errors, as well as incorporate additional relevant material not available at the time of original publication.<br /><br />Those who enjoy tales of survival will, undoubtedly, find this gripping tale well worth reading.	2005-08-22
97398:US	49355567	RQRMI8OK86XA5	3442452708	878808905	Das dänische Mädchen.	Books	5	1	1	N	N	PORTRAIT OF A MOST UNUSUAL MARRIAGE...	This is the German text edition of \\"The Danish Girl\\", a stunning debut novel by someone who is no novice to the publishing industry, as he is the director of The Modern Library, which is a division of Random House. With this book as his entree into the ranks of novelist, Mr. Ebershoff rightly claims a place among the distinguished. This is a most elegantly written novel.<br /><br />His book is loosely based upon the true story of Danish painters, Einar Wegener and Gerda Waud. They met in Copenhagen, while they were both art students, and married a few years later. He painted landscapes, while she would become known for her paintings of a mysterious sloe-eyed beauty. When it eventually became known that the model for the mysterious beauty in Gerda's paintings was, in fact, her cross-dressing husband, they became the scandal of Copenhagen. They left Denmark and sought refuge in Paris, France, where the mystery woman of Gerda's paintings began appearing in the flesh among the denizens of the Parisian demi-monde.<br /><br />There is little doubt that Gerda encouraged her husband in his cross-dressing, as well as in his eventual surgical transformation. In 1930, the couple again turned the world on its head when it became known that Einar Wegener had undergone the world's first known sex re-assignment operation in Germany, and emerged as Lili Elbe. This provoked the King of Denmark himself to annul their marriage. Unfortunately, Lili Elbe's life as a surgically transformed woman ended in 1931 with her death.<br /><br />The author expertly weaves these facts, which were the inspiration for this novel, into a lyrically written, haunting narrative about two people who were bound to each other by an unconditional love that would transcend the conventional. He creates an intriguing, spellbinding story that is a sensitive portrait of a most unusual marriage. The author takes the reader on a journey into the imagined psyche of these two individuals, as their marriage slowly devolves and Lili becomes more and more prominent in their lives. The author leads the reader through Lili's gradual metamorphosis, her poignant self-realization, and the final denouement of the marriage. This is an exquisitely crafted novel by a very gifted writer. Bravo!olves and Lili becomes more and more prominent in their lives. The author leads the reader through Lili's gradual metamorphosis, her poignant self-realization, and the final denouement of the marriage. This is an exquisitely crafted novel by a very gifted writer. Bravo!	2005-08-22
97791:US	49355567	RD9E7J64Y6I9Y	0425072959	713206696	The Tomb	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A CURSE FROM THE PAST INVADES THE PRESENT...	The horror genre is enriched by this book, which is inventive and original. Though the book is plot, rather than character, driven, it does not suffer for its lack of character development. The reader is kept too busy thinking about the plot to worry unduly about character development. Such is the power of this unusual and compelling horror story.<br /><br />The plot is relatively simple. The horror reaches out across the world from India to the United States. A heinous defilement and murders by British soldiers in a temple in mid-nineteenth century India unleashes a curse that is to follow the descendants of the leader of the attack. Coupled with that curse is an entourage of creatures of unimaginable horror that have once again risen to do the bidding of one who would avenge past wrongs. With great power, however, comes great responsibility.<br /><br />Enter Repairman Jack, a man who works to right what once went wrong and who earns his living by his wits and by his ability to defend himself to the death, if necessary. If one has a problem, he will fix it. When he agrees to help a one-armed Indian gentleman, Kusum Bahkti, retrieve a necklace that is a priceless family heirloom, he soon discovers just how priceless it is.<br /><br />Jack suddenly finds himself thrust into the middle of a series of almost inexplicable events. Besieged by mysterious disappearances, rank odors, unusual substances of Indian origin, he finds that the necklace holds the key to an ancient horror. He then comes up against the most formidable foes he has ever encountered. He must find a way to vanquish these hellish creatures or risk losing those whom he loves.<br /><br />Highly original and inventive, this is a pretty well written horror story that should keep even the most jaded of readers turning its pages. It is also the book that introduced Repairman Jack, a popular character that would go on to have a series of books revolve around him.	2005-08-22
97811:US	49355567	RNT77ZVCD39P6	0671435221	59773996	Daughter of Time	Books	5	6	6	N	N	PART ENGLISH HISTORY...PART ENGLISH MYSTERY...	This is a wonderful genre bending book...part mystery, part history. Written by Scotswoman Elizabeth MacIntosh, who wrote under the pen name Josephine Tey, it was first published in 1951. It is tragic that the author died in 1952 and was never to know the pleasure that this book would bring to generations of readers and that the Mystery Writers of America would ultimately rank it fourth among the one hundred best mysteries ever written.<br /><br />The title of the book is derived from a historical source, as it is attributable to Sir Francis Bacon, \\"For truth is rightly named after the daughter of time, and not of authority.\\" The book itself is not a traditional mystery but rather an application of deductive reasoning to an actual historical event. The event in question is the murder of the princes in the tower, sons of King Edward IV, allegedly by their uncle, Richard III, who eventually usurped the English throne after the death of his brother. It has been widely held that Richard III did, indeed, murder the two young princes, his nephews, in order to secure his claim to the throne.<br /><br />The reader is introduced to Scotland Yard Inspector Alan Grant, who is hospitalized and recovering from injuries sustained in the line of duty. While convalescing, he becomes intrigued by a picture of a portrait of Richard III, a likeness with which he is unfamiliar. Grant is puzzled that someone with such a sensitive face could have been such a monster as to murder his two nephews in cold blood. So, our intrepid Inspector decides that he will reconsider the evidence upon which such a dastardly assumption has been based. With the help of an American researcher doing the necessary legwork, Grant compiles enough archival historical fact that incrementally helps him formulate a new theory as to who actually may have murdered the princes in the tower.<br /><br />This analysis and reformulation is done as though it were being argued to a jury. Indeed, so persuasive is Inspector Grant through the application of some insightful deductive reasoning and clever dialogue that the reader comes away thinking that Grant has solved one of the most intriguing historical mysteries of all time. This is certainly an unusual book conceptually but one that succeeds brilliantly. It should appeal to those readers who enjoy having a mystery unraveled, as well as to those who harbor a love of English history. Bravo!rant through the application of some insightful deductive reasoning and clever dialogue that the reader comes away thinking that Grant has solved one of the most intriguing historical mysteries of all time. This is certainly an unusual book conceptually but one that succeeds brilliantly. It should appeal to those readers who enjoy having a mystery unraveled, as well as to those who harbor a love of English history. Bravo!	2005-08-22
97902:US	49355567	R14MNJV660ZNUB	B0006S8XA0	399926886	Alive: The story of the Andes survivors	Books	5	1	1	N	N	I GET BY WITH A LITTLE HELP FROM MY FRIENDS...	Time has not diminished the drama of the tale of the Uruguayan rugby team whose plane crashed in the Andes Mountains. Of the forty five people on the plane at the time of the crash, sixteen came down from the mountain about seventy days later with a saga of survival not easily forgotten.<br /><br />Theirs is a journey born of tragedy and human endurance. The author unfolds a tale that is gripping in the telling, as enthralling as it is almost unbelievable. It is investigative reporting at its best, because it does not fail to convey the human drama and pathos behind the story of this remarkable struggle for survival high up in the Andes Mountains. Masterfully written, it is a well balanced narrative that takes great pains to ground the experience of the survivors in the context out of which it arose.<br /><br />The plane had crashed in the Andes Mountains on Argentinian territory. It was an exercise in terror for those on the plane, as it barreled down the mountain, before finally coming to rest in a valley of snow high up in the Andes. Of the forty five persons on board, thirty two had initially survived the crash. Some, however, had sustained serious injuries. Time would not be their friend. Moreover, with little warm clothing (keep in mind that October is springtime in South America), the survivors were exposed to the extreme cold of the night air, high up in the Andes. Though spring, this still meant temperatures well below freezing. Damp, cold, and hungry, amid the anguished cries of the injured, thus began the first of many such nights.<br /><br />By their tenth day in the Andes, the limited food supplies, which they had rationed with all the care of a miser, had virtually run out. Starving and ravenously hungry, they voiced what they all knew to be true, but had not dared to voice before. They must eat, or they would die. The only thing left for them to eat, however, was abhorrent and deeply repugnant to them. Digging deep into their conservative, religious souls, they found a way to justify actions that would have them transcend a new reality. Their fallen comrades would now provide the means of their sustenance. All eventually succumbed to this only means of survival.<br /><br />This, while one of the most dramatic parts of their story, is just that, a part. Their survival entailed much more. They had to endure other deprivations. They had to survive the elements. They had to overcome a profound despair over being seemingly forgotten by the outside world. Ultimately, only sixteen were able to do so. How they did so will fascinate all readers of adventure literature. The means that they took to let the world know that they were still alive will astound even the most jaded of readers. It is an account of human endurance that is thought provoking and compelling, a quest to reconcile physical needs with the spiritual. It is, above all, a riveting testament to life.ouls, they found a way to justify actions that would have them transcend a new reality. Their fallen comrades would now provide the means of their sustenance. All eventually succumbed to this only means of survival.<br /><br />This, while one of the most dramatic parts of their story, is just that, a part. Their survival entailed much more. They had to endure other deprivations. They had to survive the elements. They had to overcome a profound despair over being seemingly forgotten by the outside world. Ultimately, only sixteen were able to do so. How they did so will fascinate all readers of adventure literature. The means that they took to let the world know that they were still alive will astound even the most jaded of readers. It is an account of human endurance that is thought provoking and compelling, a quest to reconcile physical needs with the spiritual. It is, above all, a riveting testament to life.	2005-08-22
98432:US	49355567	RTN9ELED963EV	2876531984	714487396	Le Portrait de Jennie	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A HAUNTING STORY...	This is the French text edition of the book, \\"Portrait of Jennie\\", first published in 1940, which was adapted to film in 1948 and starred Joseph Cotton and Jennifer Jones. I was sufficiently intrigued by the film so as to want to read the book upon which the film was based but was surprised to discover, however,  that the book is more of a novella, as it runs a scant one hundred and twenty-five pages in length. While not lengthy, it is, nonetheless, a haunting story, although it differs is some respects from the film.<br /><br />The book tells the story of a young, struggling artist in New York named Eben Adams, who is really little more than a hack. One winter night in 1938, a down and out Eben is in Central Park, having been  unsuccessful in selling his paintings. There, he encounters a very young girl named Jennie Appleton, who is mysteriously in the park by herself, playing hopscotch. Thus, begins Eben's acquaintance with Jennie.<br /><br />Eben sketches a picture of Jennie, which to his surprise, he is able to sell. Periodically, Jennie begins appearing in his life at odd times, always swathed in mystery as to her origins and always appearing somehow older than expected each time he sees her.  Eben continues to sketch her, finding that he can sell those sketches with ease. Inspired by his muse, he paints her portrait, a masterpiece that eventually lands in the Metropolitan Museum of Art.<br /><br />He is puzzled, nonetheless, by the anomaly and mystery that surrounds Jennie, who has an air of being from another time.  Yet,  an unusual bond is developing between them, one that not even the vagaries of time can break. It is also one that becomes increasingly romantic over time, as Jennie quickly grows into womanhood. The fates, however, Eben finds, can be cruel.<br /><br />Those who enjoy romantic stories with supernatural portents will very much enjoy this haunting tale of two star crossed individuals.	2005-08-22
98503:US	49355567	RNW2BX45C5EDX	B0007E7Q2O	412606618	The Good Earth	Books	5	2	2	N	N	COMPLEX...COMPELLING...CLASSIC...	This 1932 Pulitzer Prize winning novel is still a standout today. Deceptive in its simplicity, it is a story built around a flawed human being and a teetering socio-economic system, as well as one that is layered with profound themes. The cadence of the author's writing is also of note, as it rhythmically lends itself to the telling of the story, giving it a very distinct voice. No doubt the author's writing style was influenced by her own immersion in Chinese culture, as she grew up and lived in China, the daughter of missionaries.<br /><br />This is the story of the cyclical nature of life, of the passions and desires that motivate a human being, of good and evil, and of the desire to survive and thrive against great odds. It begins with the story of an illiterate, poor, peasant farmer, Wang Lung, who ventures from the rural countryside and goes to town to the great house of Hwang to obtain a bride from those among the rank of slave. There, he is given the slave O-lan as his bride.<br /><br />Selfless, hardworking, and a bearer of sons, the plain-faced O-lan supports Wang Lung's veneration of the land and his desire to acquire more land. She stays with him through thick and thin, through famine and very lean times, working alongside him on the land, making great sacrifices, and raising his children. As a family, they weather the tumultuousness of pre-revolutionary China in the 1920s, only to find themselves the recipient of riches beyond their dreams. At the first opportunity, they buy land from the great house of Hwang, whose expenses appear to be exceeding their income.<br /><br />With the passing of time, Wang Lung buys more and more land from the house of Hwang, until he owns it all, as his veneration of the land is always paramount. With O-lan at this side, his family continues to prosper. His life becomes more complicated, however, the richer he gets. Wang Lung then commits a life-changing act that pierces O-lan's heart in the most profoundly heartbreaking way.<br /><br />As the years pass, his sons become educated and literate, and the family continues to prosper. With the great house of Hwang on the skids, an opportunity to buy their house, the very same house from where he had fetched O-lan many years ago, becomes available. Pressed upon to buy that house by his sons, who do not share Wang Lung's veneration for the land and rural life, he buys the house. The country mice now have become city mice.<br /><br />This is a potent, thematically complex story, brimming with irony, yet simply told against a framework of mounting social change. It is a story that stands as a parable in many ways and is one that certainly should be read. It illustrates the timeless dichotomy between the young and the old, the old and the new, and the rich and the poor. It is no wonder that this beautifully written book won a Pulitzer Prize and is considered a classic masterpiece. Bravo!ay.<br /><br />As the years pass, his sons become educated and literate, and the family continues to prosper. With the great house of Hwang on the skids, an opportunity to buy their house, the very same house from where he had fetched O-lan many years ago, becomes available. Pressed upon to buy that house by his sons, who do not share Wang Lung's veneration for the land and rural life, he buys the house. The country mice now have become city mice.<br /><br />This is a potent, thematically complex story, brimming with irony, yet simply told against a framework of mounting social change. It is a story that stands as a parable in many ways and is one that certainly should be read. It illustrates the timeless dichotomy between the young and the old, the old and the new, and the rich and the poor. It is no wonder that this beautifully written book won a Pulitzer Prize and is considered a classic masterpiece. Bravo!	2005-08-22
99209:US	49355567	R2HLKNEZRLP374	B0007E54M8	184757711	Annapurna	Books	4	0	0	N	N	EXTREME ADVENTURE FOR THE GLORY OF FRANCE...	This book is a romanticized, sanitized account of the 1950 French expedition to the Himalayas by its so called leader, Maurice Herzog. It is a book that is reflective of the times in which it was written. Still, it should be a must read for anyone who is interested in high altitude climbing.<br /><br />I first read this book in the early 1960s as a young teenager. I recall being enthralled by it and amazed at the hardships the climbers endured to bring glory to France. In reading it again as an adult, I find myself still enthralled, but more attuned to the fact that it is written in a somewhat self-serving style.<br /><br />The book itself chronicles the attempt by the French to climb an 8,000 meter peak in the Himalayas. They had two alternatives: Dhaulagiri and Annapurna. In those days, the Himalayas were largely uncharted and any topographical maps that existed at the time proved to be largely incorrect. So, the French expedition spent a large portion of their time in reconnaissance. Not only were they there to climb the mountain, they had to find a way to get to it and then map out a route on the unknown terrain to the summit. Ultimately, they chose to climb Annapurna.<br /><br />In reading this book, one must remember that the climb took place without the sophisticated equipment or protective clothing available today. This was before gortex and freeze-dried foods. This climb was made before Nepal or climbing the Himalayas became a major tourist attraction. The conditions for travellers were extremely primitive and difficult under the best of circumstances.<br /><br />When the expedition finally finds a route to Annapurna, the reader almost feels like cheering for them. When they start to climb, one senses that, in comparison to latter day expeditions, they are not so well equipped or savvy about the dangers one can encounter during a high altitude climb or the risks in doing it without supplemental oxygen, as they did. Then one realizes that they were pioneers. They were paving the way for others.<br /><br />The climb to the summit by Maurice Herzog and his partner, Louis Lachenal, is interesting, but it is their harrowing descent and return to civilization which is riveting. The two summiteers begin their descent but run into difficulties. They are fortunate to encounter two of their fellow climbers, Lionel Terray and Gaston Rebuffat, who are contemplating their own summit assault but, instead, choose to aid their comrades in the descent, foregoing their own quest for the summit.<br /><br />The travails which the climbers encounter on the descent would have finished off less hardy souls. Maurice Herzog loses his gloves during the descent and has no spare pair. One of them falls into a crevasse which, believe it or not, turns out to be a good thing. They are caught in an avalanche. They get lost in a storm. They become frostbitten and two of them, are, ultimately, forced to endure amputations.<br /><br />The medical treatment they received by the expedition doctor is unbelievable and almost primitive. Employing treatments for frostbite that have since fallen onto disrepute (excruciatingly painful arterial injections, for example), the doctor is almost frightening, at times. The reader cannot help but feel pity for the suffering the injured climbers endured: maggot ridden flesh, amputations without anaesthesia, and lack of proper medical care for a protracted period of time.<br /><br />The heroics of some of the Sherpas, as on most expeditions, go largely unsung. One must, however, pause to reflect on the fact that as this all took place before airlifts were available, the injured climbers had to be carried. Their exodus back to the frontier took about five weeks. Who carried them down the mountain, over the moraines, on makeshifts bridges over flooded, raging rivers, through dense jungle? Who else but the Sherpas. What thanks did they get? None, as usual.<br /><br />Anyway, when the expedition finally return to France, Maurice Herzog is lauded as a national hero by the French. He becomes the media darling. The other three climbers, as are the rest of those on the expedition, are largely ignored and forgotten. Therein lies the tale. If you want to know how this polarization came about, I highly recommend that you also read 'True Summit' by David Roberts. It gives you the inside scoop about the expedition and how things really were.<br /><br />Notwithstanding its idealization, romanticism, and everything is hunky-dory routine, Herzog's book is still a must read for all climbing enthusiasts.urice Herzog is lauded as a national hero by the French. He becomes the media darling. The other three climbers, as are the rest of those on the expedition, are largely ignored and forgotten. Therein lies the tale. If you want to know how this polarization came about, I highly recommend that you also read 'True Summit' by David Roberts. It gives you the inside scoop about the expedition and how things really were.<br /><br />Notwithstanding its idealization, romanticism, and everything is hunky-dory routine, Herzog's book is still a must read for all climbing enthusiasts.	2005-08-21
99278:US	49355567	RWUKDUEDWY5LL	8573021675	923832223	Beijo, O	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A FATHER/DAUGHTER TABOO...	This is the Portuguese text edition of \\"The Kiss\\", an elegantly written memoir, searingly painful, yet, at the same time, strangely compelling, about a young woman who grew up in a dysfunctional household, raised primarily by her grandparents. Her undemonstrative mother, who lived apart from her daughter during her formative years, was emotionally distant, and her father, from whom her mother was divorced, was physically absent.<br /><br />When she was reunited with her father at the age of twenty, her hunger for love and affection was such that an unfatherly kiss led to a consensual and obsessive sexual affair with her biological father, an ordained minister. It was an obsession in which her own mother was seemingly complicit, treating her daughter as if she were a rival for the affection of the man that they both loved. The author's unseemly obsession with her father would torment and haunt her for years.<br /><br />This is a beautifully told story about a parental betrayal so incomprehensible that it will leave the reader aghast. The author infuses the book with a sadness that is heartbreakingly palpable. Her evocative and lyrical prose, spare and intense, elevates this otherwise sordid and tawdry tale, making it a haunting memoir of a past that is best forgotten.	2005-08-21
99343:US	49355567	R3R1LNV8SZGF33	0451529723	584095688	My Antonia (Signet Classics)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A TRUE AMERICAN CLASSIC...	I first read this book when I was in junior high school. I admit that, at the time, I did not appreciate the strengths of the book and the quality of its writing. I am quite glad that I decided to give it another chance, as, having re-read it,  I now understand why it is considered to be a classic in literature. It is simply a beautifully written book, covering many of the themes that one stumbles across in life and coalescing them into a work of extraordinary breadth.<br /><br />The book is the story of two young people, Jim Burden and Antonia Shimerda. They meet for the first time when Jim is ten years old and Antonia is fourteen. Recently orphaned, Jim has moved to the Great Prairie to live with his grandparents in Nebraska. Antonia, on the other hand, has been wrenched from her homeland in Bohemia, emigrating with her parents to the United States and finding herself in Nebraska. Jim and Antonia's chance encounter on a train sets the stage for the forging of a friendship and unconditional love that time will not diminish.<br /><br />The book relates the harshness of immigrant life through the eyes of Jim, who narrates the events contained in the book. There is a relentless stoicism about the book, which is written in spare, clear prose. With intense imagery and descriptive exactitude, late nineteenth century Nebraska comes to life. It also relates the paths that each of the characters choose to follow, as well as the vicissitudes of life that mold and shape them in ways that no one would have imagined.<br /><br />The focus of the book, which is also a coming of age tale, seems to be on the female characters and their strengths. All the women in it seem to be survivors, despite the hardships that they encounter. This is, without a doubt, a life affirming book, wrought with great feeling and a decided sense of time and place. Yet, despite its poignancy, the book is surprisingly unsentimental and straightforward. It is a testament to the author's literary talent that this book has emerged as a timeless classic. Bravo!t this book has emerged as a timeless classic. Bravo!	2005-08-21
99525:US	49355567	R2LY0SA6I8IO5W	8532513611	648265746	A Moca de Copenhague (Em Portuguese do Brasil)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	PORTRAIT OF A MARRIAGE...	This is the Portuguese text edition of \\"The Danish Girl\\", a stunning debut novel by someone who is no novice to the publishing industry, as he is the director of The Modern Library, which is a division of Random House. With this book as his entree into the ranks of novelist, Mr. Ebershoff rightly claims a place among the distinguished. This is a most elegantly written novel.<br /><br />His book is loosely based upon the true story of Danish painters, Einar Wegener and Gerda Waud. They met in Copenhagen, while they were both art students, and married a few years later. He painted landscapes, while she would become known for her paintings of a mysterious sloe-eyed beauty. When it eventually became known that the model for the mysterious beauty in Gerda's paintings was, in fact, her cross-dressing husband, they became the scandal of Copenhagen. They left Denmark and sought refuge in Paris, France, where the mystery woman of Gerda's paintings began appearing in the flesh among the denizens of the Parisian demi-monde.<br /><br />There is little doubt that Gerda encouraged her husband in his cross-dressing, as well as in his eventual surgical transformation. In 1930, the couple again turned the world on its head when it became known that Einar Wegener had undergone the world's first known sex re-assignment operation in Germany, and emerged as Lili Elbe. This provoked the King of Denmark himself to annul their marriage. Unfortunately, Lili Elbe's life as a surgically transformed woman ended in 1931 with her death.<br /><br />The author expertly weaves these facts, which were the inspiration for this novel, into a lyrically written, haunting narrative about two people who were bound to each other by an unconditional love that would transcend the conventional. He creates an intriguing, spellbinding story that is a sensitive portrait of a most unusual marriage. The author takes the reader on a journey into the imagined psyche of these two individuals, as their marriage slowly devolves and Lili becomes more and more prominent in their lives. The author leads the reader through Lili's gradual metamorphosis, her poignant self-realization, and the final denouement of the marriage. This is an exquisitely crafted novel by a very gifted writer. Bravo!devolves and Lili becomes more and more prominent in their lives. The author leads the reader through Lili's gradual metamorphosis, her poignant self-realization, and the final denouement of the marriage. This is an exquisitely crafted novel by a very gifted writer. Bravo!	2005-08-21
99898:US	49355567	R3W3XYZ68M12LV	0606334661	892877416	Vida Secreta De Las Abajes/secret Life of Bees (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	THE MADONNA AS QUEEN BEE...	This is the Spanish text edition of the  New York Times best selling novel, \\"The Secret Life of Bees\\". It is a beautifully written, coming of age story, set in rural South Carolina in 1964 against the back drop of the civil rights movement. It is the touching story of a young white girl, fourteen year old Lily Owens, whose mother died in a tragic accident when Lily was about four. Lily lives with her father, a harsh man with whom no love is lost, on a peach farm outside Sylvan, South Carolina. Her mother's death stands between them.<br /><br />Neglected by her father, Lily is brought up by Rosaleen, a big-hearted black woman, who loves Lily and whom Lily loves. Yet, hers is a lonely existence, compounded by her unquenched thirst for information about her mother, Deborah. All she has left of her mother are some cloudy memories and a box containing a few mementos, among them a picture of a Black Madonna, inscribed with the words, \\"Tiburon, S.C.\\"<br /><br />When Rosaleen goes into town to register to vote, she feels empowered by the passing of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and has a run-in with the town's three biggest racists, resulting in Rosaleen being taken into custody. Lily arranges for her to break free. Together, they seek sanctuary in Tiburon, South Carolina, where Lily discovers the mystery of the Black Madonna. Taken in by a trio of middle-aged black women who are sisters, as well as beekeepers, Lily is introduced to the secret life of bees and begins to learn some important life lessons. She also learns something about her mother and finds love where she least expected.<br /><br />This is simply a beautifully realized novel, written in a true Southern voice by a wonderful writer with a story to tell. It is little wonder that this compelling book has received so many accolades. It is a stunning fiction debut by the author.	2005-08-21
100294:US	49355567	R3STEOEQ315SMJ	8528607577	15298245	Peso da Água, O	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A COMPELLING TALE OF COMPLEX EMOTIONS...	This is the Portuguese text edition of \\"The Weight of Water\\", an exceptionally well-written tour de force about complex emotions. Written is clean, spare prose, it is two stories in one, each with its own voice, demanding to be heard. It is, without a doubt, a book to remember.<br /><br />It tells the story of Jean, a news photographer who sets out on a sailboat to a remote island off the coast of New Hampshire, accompanied by her husband, Thomas, her five year old daughter, Billie, her brother-in-law, Rich, and his girl friend of several months, Adaline. The purpose of her visit is to photograph the scene of a nineteenth century double murder that saw two Norwegian, immigrant women hacked to death, which murders were much ballyhooed at the time as the crime of the century.<br /><br />While there, she discovers an uncatalogued translation of the personal journal of the ostensible lone, female eyewitness, Maren Hontvedt, who seemed to have survived the carnage. Written in a somber and ruminative tone, the journal of Maren's life and of the events that led up to the carnage forms a core of the story. Maren's journal provides a framework for looking at the angst of Jean's present, which is haunted by passion, jealousy, and betrayal. It is through Maren's story that Jean herself comes to terms with her own personal tragedy.<br /><br />Alternating between Jean's unraveling present and the secrets of the past, the book provides a compelling, absorbing and suspenseful narrative, keeping the reader in its thrall. The two juxtaposed dramas come together in a primal and tragic climax. Those who read this book will find themselves haunted by it.	2005-08-21
100373:US	49355567	R39BGZIUDMJSL8	0007154763	101423143	Falling Angels	Books	4	2	2	N	N	ABSORBING HISTORICAL FICTION...	This book covers the period in the lives of two families that stretches from January 1901, the end of the Victorian era, to May 1910, the end of the Edwardian one. The lives of these two families, the Colemans and the Waterhouses, converge and become inextricably woven together when they inadvertently meet at a cemetery while paying their respects to deceased loved ones. Unbeknownst to them, their lives are moving inexorably towards a tragic denouement, one that is to have ramifications for both families.<br /><br />Two of the daughters of these respective families, Lavinia Waterhouse and Maude Coleman, find that they have formed the beginning of a friendship during the brief interlude at the cemetery. The two girls also befriend Simon Field, the son of one of the gravediggers at the cemetery. The friendship of the two girls is cemented when they later discover that they are to be neighbors, as through happenstance the Waterhouse family moves onto a property adjacent to that of the Colemans. Despite differences in social class and personal taste, as the Waterhouses are definitely sentimentally bourgeois and the Colemans have pretensions to more refinement, the families are brought together, however unwillingly, through the friendship between Lavinia and Maude.<br /><br />The mothers of these two girls are unable to form a true friendship, as stolid Gertrude Waterhouse and pretty Kitty Coleman are unable to find much common ground. Gertrude is bound in tradition, while Kitty, dissatisfied with her marriage and her life, is looking to escape tradition and expand the role allotted in society to women. Never the twain shall meet, as these women will never see eye-to-eye, despite the friendship between Lavinia and Maude.<br /><br />This is a well-plotted novel with each character adding his or her perspective to the events that unfold, many of which are of a secretive nature. Even the husbands, Albert Waterhouse and Richard Coleman, have something to say that contributes to the development of the story, as does Richard Coleman's mother, Edith, as do the Coleman's maid, Jenny Whitby, and their cook, Dorothy Baker. Lavinia's younger sister, Ivy May, who plays a small but pivotal role, also has her say, as does Kitty's admirer, John Jackson. There are also a number of twists and turns in the tale.<br /><br />The story is told in the clean, spare prose that fans of the author have come to expect. It is told through first person narratives, and it is almost as if the narratives were taken from the personal diary or journal of each character. Therein lies the rub, as the author is unable to make the voice of each character truly distinguishable from that of the others. The book suffers somewhat from the failure of the author to develop a truly unique voice for each one. This is, however, the only failing of this otherwise absorbing and intriguing story that is suffused with period detail. This is an otherwise excellent book that fans of the author will enjoy, as will those who love historical fiction.to the development of the story, as does Richard Coleman's mother, Edith, as do the Coleman's maid, Jenny Whitby, and their cook, Dorothy Baker. Lavinia's younger sister, Ivy May, who plays a small but pivotal role, also has her say, as does Kitty's admirer, John Jackson. There are also a number of twists and turns in the tale.<br /><br />The story is told in the clean, spare prose that fans of the author have come to expect. It is told through first person narratives, and it is almost as if the narratives were taken from the personal diary or journal of each character. Therein lies the rub, as the author is unable to make the voice of each character truly distinguishable from that of the others. The book suffers somewhat from the failure of the author to develop a truly unique voice for each one. This is, however, the only failing of this otherwise absorbing and intriguing story that is suffused with period detail. This is an otherwise excellent book that fans of the author will enjoy, as will those who love historical fiction.	2005-08-21
100375:US	49355567	R23TV8H14OM6X8	9707700386	340696076	La Dama y el Unicornio (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A TAPESTRY OF MEDIEVAL LIFE AND ART...	Once again, Tracy Chevalier, author of a number of well-written works of historical fiction, lets her imagination run wild, weaving her story around another actual work of art. In this book, the author builds her story around the series of medieval tapestries known as \\"The Lady and the Unicorn\\", currently hanging in a museum in France, creating a work of historical fiction that is somewhat interesting and moderately enjoyable. Although not as well written as her best selling novel, \\"Girl with a Pearl Earring\\",  or even her debut novel, \\"The Virgin Blue\\",  those who like their historical fiction with some romantic overtones  will be pleased with the author's efforts.<br /><br />Towards the end of the fifteenth century, a talented, handsome, and cocky painter, Nicolas des Innocents, is commissioned to design and paint scenes depicting the Battle of Nancy for a series of  tapestries. His paintings would then be enlarged in preparation for having the images woven into tapestries by a master weaver in Brussels. The commission is given to Nicholas by a prominent French nobleman, Jean Le Viste, a cold man who is given to self-importance and wishes to memorialize his status, as his star in on the ascendancy in the Royal Court.<br /><br />Nicolas soon discovers, however, that it was Jean Le Viste's wife, Genevieve de Nanterre, who suggested him for the commission. She lets him know, however,  that she does not wish for the tapestries to depict the Battle of Nancy but, rather, scenes of a lady and a unicorn. Genevieve de Nanterre, a pious and unhappily married woman,  leaves it to him to  convince her husband that this new idea should replace the Battle of Nancy as the subject of the tapestries. Nicolas manages to do this, and so it begins.<br /><br />Nicolas is not only a fine painter but also a confirmed lothario who falls for Le Viste's daughter, a beautiful teenager named  Claude. Of course, Nicholas has already dallied with Marie-Celeste, one of the household's maids with the usual, not unexpected, result, a fact that will eventually lead to some serious personal consequences for him. Meanwhile, Genevieve de Nanterre,  who  would rather be a nun than married to Jean Le Viste, discovers that her daughter reciprocates the painter's passion.  Claude is ultimately shipped off to a nunnery to repent for her sins and to remain chaste until a suitable betrothal may be made for her.  Genevieve's motives in doing so, however, are not wholly altruistic.<br /><br />Eventually, Nicholas travels to the workshop of master weaver Georges de la Chappelle, who has been selected to convert the paintings to tapestries. Nicholas meets with cartoonist, Philippe de la Tour, to ensure that the tapestries stay true to his paintings and that the process of enlarging them does not substantively change his seductive design. Of course, his stay in Brussels is made more pleasant by the fact that Georges de la Chappelle has a lovely daughter named Alienor, who is ripe for the picking.  Unfortunately, her father, for business reasons,  wishes to marry her off to the local tanner, a smelly brute whose noxious scent is a result of an expected occupational hazard. Unbeknownst to them all, however, Alienor has a secret admirer, whose love will eventually make right all that goes wrong.<br /><br />This is the Spanish text edition of \\"The Lady and the Unicorn\\", a mildly entertaining novel in which the underlying theme is seduction. The tale is told from the perspectives of each of the main characters through individual first person narratives. The lives of some of them become intertwined, because Nicolas des Innocents has come into contact with them. The story describes their lives and loves, as well as the impact that their lives have on the actual tapestries. The novel also gives a good deal of interesting information on the weavers' guild of the time and its practices, as well as information on the painstaking art of weaving high quality tapestries, such as that of\\"The Lady and the Unicorn\\".\\"The Lady and the Unicorn\\".	2005-08-21
102805:US	49355567	R1A3C2NZOBGB6W	8425328489	224275124	El Diario de Asta (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	THE POWER OF THE WRITTEN WORD...	This is the Spanish text edition of \\"Asta's Book\\", a beautifully written, well nuanced novel of mystery and suspense that seamlessly moves between the past and the present. The past is told through the diaries of a Danish immigrant named Asta, who went to live in Edwardian England with her husband, Rasmus, and two young sons at the turn of the century. Settling down in East London in 1905, her loveless marriage and loneliness drove Asta to keep a journal of her innermost thoughts and experiences.<br /><br />Though married to a man who spent a great deal of time away from home on business and with whom she seemed to have little in common, Asta added two more children to her family, daughters, Swanny, her favorite, and Maria, the youngest. Asta's lyrically written journals would chronicle of her life, her struggles as an immigrant, her hopes and dreams, and her adoration of Swanny. They would also tantalizingly hint at a secret that would, ultimately, impact on her daughter, Swanny, later in life.<br /><br />Over seventy years later, those diaries, all forty nine of them, would be discovered and become a publishing sensation and a bestseller. Within its many pages would lie the missing pieces to a turn of the century murder mystery and the leads to the whereabouts of a missing child, as well as tantalizing clues to the puzzling circumstances surrounding Swanny's birth. This information would lie dormant until nearly a century after Asta first put pen to paper, when Asta's granddaughter, Maria's daughter Ann, would review the diaries and discover not only the secret of Swanny's birth, but the identity of a missing child, as well as that of a killer, who nearly a century earlier had butchered two women.	2005-08-19
103729:US	49355567	R1CAYEO5H0124L	8408022423	553443242	El Trono Codiciado (Booklet) (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	BLOODY MARY...	Jean Plaidy, known to her legion of fans as Victoria Holt, continues her \\"Queens of England\\" series of books with this, her sixth volume. It is the Spanish text edition of \\"In the Shadow of the Crown\\", a well written and engrossing work of historical fiction written as a first person narrative by Mary Tudor, daughter of King Henry VIII of England and Queen Katherine. Mary would eventually become Queen of England in her own right and leave a legacy whereby her subjects would remember her as \\"Bloody Mary\\".<br /><br />As the only child of Henry VIII and Katherine of Aragon, the future seemed rosy for the Princess Mary. She lived a fairytale life until her father, obsessed with begetting a male heir, fell for the charms of Anne Boleyn. From that moment on, life would never be the same for Mary. Her world was torn asunder, as her father became someone whom she did not recognize. His cruelties to her and her mother, Katherine, would leave an indelible mark on her life. Divorcing her mother to marry the notorious Anne Boleyn and splitting from the Catholic Church of Rome, Henry would set England on a course that would change history. It would also serve to reinforce Mary's Catholicism, the faith of her pious, long suffering mother.<br /><br />Upon the death of her father, Mary would, along with her half sister Elizabeth, daughter of Henry and Anne Boleyn, become a pawn in the political intrigues of the day in which religion would become a focal issue. When Mary became Queen after the premature death of her sickly half brother, Edward VI, son of her father, Henry, and his hapless third wife, Jane Seymour, she tried to make England return to the Catholic Church of Rome. Under the guidance of some of her advisors, she would make horrific examples of those who would fail to embrace what she viewed as the true faith, a policy that would not endear her to her subjects. This, unfortunately, would be her legacy and would, ultimately, shape the future religious identity of England.<br /><br />This is an absorbing story of one woman's struggle to survive the vicissitudes of life, the feckless love of her father, the King, the political intrigues of her day, the threat of imprisonment and death, and a loveless and childless marriage to Phillip of Spain. It is the story of a woman whose road to the throne was paved with many obstacles, and her ultimate acquisition of the crown would confer little happiness upon her. It is a spellbinding account of a life lived entirely in the shadow of the crown.<br /><br />This is an absorbing story of one woman's struggle to survive the vicissitudes of life, the feckless love of her father, the King, the political intrigues of her day, the threat of imprisonment and death, and a loveless and childless marriage to Phillip of Spain. It is the story of a woman whose road to the throne was paved with many obstacles, and her ultimate acquisition of the crown would confer little happiness upon her. It is a spellbinding account of a life lived entirely in the shadow of the crown.	2005-08-19
103736:US	49355567	R3TGQ3FYM5QJB8	0739433245	707805727	O Pioneers!	Books	4	1	1	N	N	THE LAND TO WHICH WE BELONG...	In this, the author's second published work, the author writes about that which she knew best, early pioneer life in Nebraska, the place to which she and her family moved in 1883 when she was a mere slip of a girl. She eventually attended the University of Nebraska, graduating in 1995, at a time when most girls did no such thing.<br /><br />In this work, the author was on very sure footing. Her clear, straightforward prose lends itself capably to the story of early pioneers who went to Nebraska and set down roots, weathering the exigencies that often plagued a newcomer to a particular region. It is a surprisingly unsentimental look at pioneer life.<br /><br />This thematically complex, but simply written story focuses primarily on Alexandra Bergson, the intelligent, independent, resourceful, and strong-willed daughter of pioneer John Bergson. Upon his death he did what was then the nearly unthinkable. He left his land in the hands of his oldest child, his daughter, Alexandra, rather than in those of his sons, recognizing in his daughter those qualities that would ensure that his land would prosper under her stewardship.<br /><br />This then is the story of not only Alexandra but of that land and those whose sustenance depended upon its fruitfulness. The reader follows the Bergson clan as they live their lives and interact with their neighbors. Under Alexandra's skillful management, the Bergson farm prospers. As the farm prospers, so does its environs, as the area becomes a bustling center of activity with more and more settlers developing the land around that of the Bergsons.<br /><br />Thematically, the book explores the vicissitudes of life, as well as its life-affirming moments. As in all lives, the characters in this book experience moments of high drama and great tragedy, as well as memorable moments of love and hate. All this is grounded within the context of pioneer life, with all its hardships and privations, as well as its occasional abundance. The author skillfully re-creates a melting pot of the many nationalities that cultivated the land known as Nebraska.<br /><br />This is a book that those who like reading about pioneer life will certainly enjoy, as will those who simply like a well-written book with a tale to tell. This classic novel was also adapted for a Hallmark Hall of Fame film, starring Jessica Lange in the role of Alexandra Bergson.killfully re-creates a melting pot of the many nationalities that cultivated the land known as Nebraska.<br /><br />This is a book that those who like reading about pioneer life will certainly enjoy, as will those who simply like a well-written book with a tale to tell. This classic novel was also adapted for a Hallmark Hall of Fame film, starring Jessica Lange in the role of Alexandra Bergson.	2005-08-19
106356:US	49355567	R237DXZCTZ6OEZ	0899663567	385174541	Portrait of Jennie	Books	4	25	25	N	Y	A HAUNTING STORY...	This book, first published in 1940, was adapted to film in 1948, which film starred Joseph Cotton and Jennifer Jones. I was sufficiently intrigued by the film so as to want to read the book upon which the film was based but was surprised to discover, however,  that the book is more of a novella, as it runs a scant one hundred and twenty-five pages in length. While not lengthy, it is, nonetheless, a haunting story, although it differs is some respects from the film.<br /><br />The book tells the story of a young, struggling artist in New York named Eben Adams, who is really little more than a hack. One winter night in 1938, a down and out Eben is in Central Park, having been  unsuccessful in selling his paintings. There, he encounters a very young girl named Jennie Appleton, who is mysteriously in the park by herself, playing hopscotch. Thus, begins Eben's acquaintance with Jennie.<br /><br />Eben sketches a picture of Jennie, which to his surprise, he is able to sell. Periodically, Jennie begins appearing in his life at odd times, always swathed in mystery as to her origins and always appearing somehow older than expected each time he sees her.  Eben continues to sketch her, finding that he can sell those sketches with ease. Inspired by his muse, he paints her portrait, a masterpiece that eventually lands in the Metropolitan Museum of Art.<br /><br />He is puzzled, nonetheless, by the anomaly and mystery that surrounds Jennie, who has an air of being from another time.  Yet,  an unusual bond is developing between them, one that not even the vagaries of time can break. It is also one that becomes increasingly romantic over time, as Jennie quickly grows into womanhood. The fates, however, Eben finds, can be cruel.<br /><br />Those who enjoy romantic stories with supernatural portents will very much enjoy this haunting tale of two star crossed individuals. This reprint, library binding edition comes with bright blue cloth covered boards with the title embossed in gilt on the spine.on the spine.	2005-08-17
112811:US	49355567	R3VP41N7K6HVWE	0452285453	7966085	The Lady and the Unicorn: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A TAPESTRY OF MEDIEVAL LIFE AND ART...	Once again, Tracy Chevalier, author of a number of well-written works of historical fiction, lets her imagination run wild, weaving her story around another actual work of art. In this book, the author builds her story around the series of medieval tapestries known as \\"The Lady and the Unicorn\\", currently hanging in a museum in France, creating a work of historical fiction that is somewhat interesting and moderately enjoyable. Although not as well written as her best selling novel, \\"Girl with a Pearl Earring\\",  or even her debut novel, \\"The Virgin Blue\\",  those who like their historical fiction with some romantic overtones  will be pleased with the author's efforts.<br /><br />Towards the end of the fifteenth century, a talented, handsome, and cocky painter, Nicolas des Innocents, is commissioned to design and paint scenes depicting the Battle of Nancy for a series of  tapestries. His paintings would then be enlarged in preparation for having the images woven into tapestries by a master weaver in Brussels. The commission is given to Nicholas by a prominent French nobleman, Jean Le Viste, a cold man who is given to self-importance and wishes to memorialize his status, as his star is on the ascendancy in the Royal Court.<br /><br />Nicolas soon discovers, however, that it was Jean Le Viste's wife, Genevieve de Nanterre, who suggested him for the commission. She lets him know, however,  that she does not wish for the tapestries to depict the Battle of Nancy but, rather, scenes of a lady and a unicorn. Genevieve de Nanterre, a pious and unhappily married woman,  leaves it to him to  convince her husband that this new idea should replace the Battle of Nancy as the subject of the tapestries. Nicolas manages to do this, and so it begins.<br /><br />Nicolas is not only a fine painter but also a confirmed lothario who falls for Le Viste's daughter, a beautiful teenager named  Claude. Of course, Nicholas has already dallied with Marie-Celeste, one of the household's maids with the usual, not unexpected, result, a fact that will eventually lead to some serious personal consequences for him. Meanwhile, Genevieve de Nanterre,  who  would rather be a nun than married to Jean Le Viste, discovers that her daughter reciprocates the painter's passion.  Claude is ultimately shipped off to a nunnery to repent for her sins and to remain chaste until a suitable betrothal may be made for her.  Genevieve's motives in doing so, however, are not wholly altruistic.<br /><br />Eventually, Nicholas travels to the workshop of master weaver Georges de la Chappelle, who has been selected to convert the paintings to tapestries. Nicholas meets with cartoonist, Philippe de la Tour, to ensure that the tapestries stay true to his paintings and that the process of enlarging them does not substantively change his seductive design. Of course, his stay in Brussels is made more pleasant by the fact that Georges de la Chappelle has a lovely daughter named Alienor, who is ripe for the picking.  Unfortunately, her father, for business reasons,  wishes to marry her off to the local tanner, a smelly brute whose noxious scent is a result of an expected occupational hazard. Unbeknownst to them all, however, Alienor has a secret admirer, whose love will eventually make right all that goes wrong.<br /><br />This is a mildly entertaining novel in which the underlying theme is seduction. The tale is told from the perspectives of each of the main characters through individual first person narratives. The lives of some of them become intertwined, because Nicolas des Innocents has come into contact with them. The story describes their lives and loves, as well as the impact that their lives have on the actual tapestries. The novel also gives a good deal of interesting information on the weavers' guild of the time and its practices, as well as information on the painstaking art of weaving high quality tapestries, such as that of \\"The Lady and the Unicorn\\". It should be noted that thecover of the hardcover book is of unusual quality. When one removes the dust jacket, the boards are embossed with a lovely image taken from the actual tapestry.cover of the hardcover book is of unusual quality. When one removes the dust jacket, the boards are embossed with a lovely image taken from the actual tapestry.	2005-08-14
113232:US	49355567	R3DV3QUBFQF5XS	0704381370	316982155	As Nature Made Him	Books	5	2	2	N	N	NO HAPPY ENDINGS...	This is a wonderfully written book and a fascinating look into the debate of nature versus nurture in the area of gender assignment. Intelligent and insightful, the author draws a compassionate portrait of a family who, faced with a decision in the wake of a tragedy, relies upon the advice of a well-respected doctor, which reliance turned out to be misplaced. The book details the aftermath of the family's fateful decision and the impact it was to have on them all.<br /><br />In August 1965, Canadians Janet and Ron Reimer gave birth to identical twin boys, whom they named Brian and Bruce. When they were about eight months old, they arranged to have them circumcised due to a medical condition that caused them pain during urination. Circumcision was to remedy the problem. Little did they know that the circumcision for Bruce would be botched, resulting in the loss of his penis.<br /><br />A plastic surgeon with whom the Reimers had consulted in connection with the catastrophe that had struck Bruce had spoken to a sex researcher who had recommended that they raise Bruce as a girl. Doctors at the Mayo Clinic had suggested that they ought to get a second opinion with regards to that suggestion. The parents then consulted with a doctor affiliated with John Hopkins Hospital, Dr. John Money, a renowned doctor in the area of gender transformation, who had been the driving force behind the then controversial surgical gender re-assignment procedure for which the hospital was becoming known.<br /><br />In 1967, the distraught parents met with Dr. Money and shortly after, Bruce became Brenda and clinical castration followed. Thus, their child, who genetically and anatomically had been born a boy, was for all extent and purposes now deemed to be a girl. Brian was now on the other side of the gender divide of his identical twin brother, the twin formerly known as Bruce.<br /><br />Moreover, Dr. Money now had a dream scientific experiment, because he had a set of twins for which the unafflicted twin could act as a control by which to measure the afflicted one. In 1972, Dr. Money disclosed his \\"twins case\\" to the medical world, giving a slanted version of the experiment that made it appear to be an unqualified success. Unfortunately, his analysis of the situation did not disclose the difficulties that Brenda was having and her seeming inability to adjust to being a girl.<br /><br />Apparently, though Brenda had no idea as she was growing up that she had originally been born a boy, she never felt that she was a girl. Years of follow-up visits with Dr. Money for both twins proved to be unsettling for them, as Dr. Money employed somewhat bizarre methods and procedures. Moreover, as Brenda grew older, she would resist additional surgeries and initially resisted the hormone therapy that was introduced on the eve of puberty. Even when confronted with a totally rebellious Brenda, Dr. Money, however, remained in denial about the failure of his experiment. He would continue to tout his treatment of Brenda as an unqualified success.<br /><br />It was not until March of 1980 that Brenda was finally informed by her father about what had happened to her years ago and what had been decided in light of the circumstances. It was a revelation that was to dramatically change Brenda's life. What followed was a repudiation of Dr. Money's assertions with respect to his treatment. The book details the changes that Brenda was to make in her life, changes that would find her living the life she was originally meant to lead. Brenda would now become David and live the life of a male. Unfortunately, happiness would continue to elude him.<br /><br />This is a simply wonderful, intimate look at a family that survived a hideous tragedy. It also sympathetically and sensitively details the personal journey of one family through the labyrinthine differences in opinion surrounding the age old debate over nature versus nature. I would certainly assert that nature, and not nurture, controls. This is a very well thought out book on the issue, grounded in the tragic experience of one family. Bravo!, controls. This is a very well thought out book on the issue, grounded in the tragic experience of one family. Bravo!	2005-08-13
119567:US	49355567	RWD8W1MJJZTKI	2290312959	24024156	Des Fleurs Pour Algernon (Science Fiction) (French Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	PROFOUNDLY MOVING AND THOUGHT PROVOKING...	This is the French text edition of a wonderful and highly original novel, \\"Flowers for Algernon\\", which is  about a mentally challenged man named Charlie who wanted to be smart. One day, his wish was granted. A group of scientists selected him for an experimental operation that raised his intelligence to genius level. Suddenly, Charlie found himself transformed, and life, as he knew it, changed.<br /><br />His story is told entirely through Charlie's eyes and perceptions in the form of progress reports. The reader actually sees the change in Charlie take place, as his progress reports become more complex, well written, and filled with the angst of personal discovery and growth, as well as with his gradual awareness of his amazing and accelerated intellectual development.<br /><br />The progress reports are a wonderful contrivance for facilitating the story, and the reader is one with Charlie on his voyage of self-discovery. What happens to Charlie in the long run is profoundly moving and thought provoking. It is no wonder that this author was the recipient of the Nebula Award which is given by the Science Fiction Writers of America for having written the Best Novel of the Year. This is definitely a book well worth reading.	2005-08-10
119933:US	49355567	R33FFB9NZIYDP3	8571643490	956150360	Um Plano Simples (Em Portuguese do Brasil)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A MODERN DAY MORALITY TALE...	This is the Portuguese text edition of what is, without a doubt, an amazing debut novel. It is a modern day morality tale, which sees people's lives change significantly, when they come upon a veritable treasure trove of money. The change is not necessarily for the better, as the reader will discover.<br /><br />The plot revolves around two, small town brothers, Hank and Jacob Mitchell, who, along with Jacob's friend, Lou, inadvertently come upon a downed plane that is buried in the snow, deep in the woods of a rural area. In that plane is a dead pilot, along with four million dollars in cold, hard cash. All three of them could sure use the money. The question is, what are they going to do about it?<br /><br />They come up with what they think is a simple plan. They will take the money and just wait and see, not spending it, until the coast seems clear. From the moment they make this decision, life is never the same for any of them. Hank, taking charge of the money for safekeeping, begins to undergo a change that is seemingly uncharacteristic of one who is outwardly so respectable, rational, and benign of countenance.<br /><br />As the issue of the money begins to divide the three accomplices, greed and betrayal bubble to the surface, to culminate in a series of chilling, cold blooded murders. Meanwhile, Hank, manipulated by his Ma Barker of a wife, Sarah, begins a personal downward spiral, succumbing to an evil so profound, that it will leave the reader open mouthed.<br /><br />What happens to them all makes for an amazingly powerful and riveting story of psychological suspense. Written in clean, spare prose, this well crafted novel is a riveting page turner that grips the reader from the inception, holding the reader in its thrall until its climactic conclusion. The ending serves to show the reader that what goes around, does, indeed, come around.	2005-08-10
120521:US	49355567	RDGDQOBEPKPVJ	0749336129	399926886	Alive!: The Story of the Andes Survivors (A Mandarin paperback)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A TRIUMPHANT STORY OF SURVIVAL...	Time has not diminished the drama of the tale of the Uruguayan rugby team whose plane crashed in the Andes Mountains. Of the forty five people on the plane at the time of the crash, sixteen came down from the mountain about seventy days later with a saga of survival not easily forgotten.<br /><br />Theirs is a journey born of tragedy and human endurance. The author unfolds a tale that is gripping in the telling, as enthralling as it is almost unbelievable. It is investigative reporting at its best, because it does not fail to convey the human drama and pathos behind the story of this remarkable struggle for survival high up in the Andes Mountains. Masterfully written, it is a well balanced narrative that takes great pains to ground the experience of the survivors in the context out of which it arose.<br /><br />The plane had crashed in the Andes Mountains on Argentinian territory. It was an exercise in terror for those on the plane, as it barreled down the mountain, before finally coming to rest in a valley of snow high up in the Andes. Of the forty five persons on board, thirty two had initially survived the crash. Some, however, had sustained serious injuries. Time would not be their friend. Moreover, with little warm clothing (keep in mind that October is springtime in South America), the survivors were exposed to the extreme cold of the night air, high up in the Andes. Though spring, this still meant temperatures well below freezing. Damp, cold, and hungry, amid the anguished cries of the injured, thus began the first of many such nights.<br /><br />By their tenth day in the Andes, the limited food supplies, which they had rationed with all the care of a miser, had virtually run out. Starving and ravenously hungry, they voiced what they all knew to be true, but had not dared to voice before. They must eat, or they would die. The only thing left for them to eat, however, was abhorrent and deeply repugnant to them. Digging deep into their conservative, religious souls, they found a way to justify actions that would have them transcend a new reality. Their fallen comrades would now provide the means of their sustenance. All eventually succumbed to this only means of survival.<br /><br />This, while one of the most dramatic parts of their story, is just that, a part. Their survival entailed much more. They had to endure other deprivations. They had to survive the elements. They had to overcome a profound despair over being seemingly forgotten by the outside world. Ultimately, only sixteen were able to do so. How they did so will fascinate all readers of adventure literature. The means that they took to let the world know that they were still alive will astound even the most jaded of readers. It is an account of human endurance that is thought provoking and compelling, a quest to reconcile physical needs with the spiritual. It is, above all, a riveting testament to life.ouls, they found a way to justify actions that would have them transcend a new reality. Their fallen comrades would now provide the means of their sustenance. All eventually succumbed to this only means of survival.<br /><br />This, while one of the most dramatic parts of their story, is just that, a part. Their survival entailed much more. They had to endure other deprivations. They had to survive the elements. They had to overcome a profound despair over being seemingly forgotten by the outside world. Ultimately, only sixteen were able to do so. How they did so will fascinate all readers of adventure literature. The means that they took to let the world know that they were still alive will astound even the most jaded of readers. It is an account of human endurance that is thought provoking and compelling, a quest to reconcile physical needs with the spiritual. It is, above all, a riveting testament to life.	2005-08-10
126456:US	49355567	R1XGYR933UBR97	074753831X	991280088	Color of Water: A Black Man's Tribute to His White Mother	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A LOVING TRIBUTE TO MOM...	This book is, indeed, a tribute to the author's mother. In it, the author, a man whose mother was white and his father black, tells two stories: that of his mother and his own. Tautly written in spare, clear prose, it is a wonderful story of a bi-racial family who succeeded and achieved the American dream, despite the societal obstacles placed in its way.<br /><br />The author's mother was a Polish Orthodox Jew who migrated to America at the age of two with her family during the early nineteen twenties. They ultimately settled down in Virginia, where she led an isolated and lonely life; shunned by whites because she was Jewish and shunned by blacks because she was white. She was raised in a predominantly black neighborhood, where her father, a despicable and harsh man who brutalized his handicapped wife, ran a local grocery store, where he priced gouged his black clientele.<br /><br />She left home and moved to New York when she was nineteen and never looked back. She met and married the author's father, a black man, when mixed race marriages were still frowned upon by both whites and blacks. Still, she always felt more comfortable around blacks than around whites. When he died sixteen years later, she married another black man who nurtured her eight children by the author's father and proceeded to give her four more children.<br /><br />The author tells of his childhood, of his family, and of the issue of race that ultimately colored his life while growing up in predominantly black neighborhoods, where his mother stood out like a sore thumb because of the color of her skin. It was always an issue his mother avoided discussing with him, as for her it was not an issue. It was not until the author wrote this book that his mother discussed the issue of race within the context of her own life. From this dialogue emerges a fascinating look at the issues of race, as well as religion, and how it impacts on an individual's identity within our race conscious society.<br /><br />It is also a very personal story. While the author's family was economically disadvantaged, his eccentric and independent mother always stressed education. She was a strict disciplinarian who brooked no nonsense from her twelve children. A convert to Christianity through her first husband, with whom she founded a Baptist church, she provided her children with the will to succeed. Consequently, all twelve eventually went to college and did her proud. The story of this unique family is told from two distinct, parallel perspectives: that of the author and that of his mother. While both are interesting, it is his mother's story that dominates this beautifully written book, which is, indeed, a tribute to her. It is truly a story told from the heart, as the love that the author has for his mother is evident with every written word.r />It is also a very personal story. While the author's family was economically disadvantaged, his eccentric and independent mother always stressed education. She was a strict disciplinarian who brooked no nonsense from her twelve children. A convert to Christianity through her first husband, with whom she founded a Baptist church, she provided her children with the will to succeed. Consequently, all twelve eventually went to college and did her proud. The story of this unique family is told from two distinct, parallel perspectives: that of the author and that of his mother. While both are interesting, it is his mother's story that dominates this beautifully written book, which is, indeed, a tribute to her. It is truly a story told from the heart, as the love that the author has for his mother is evident with every written word.	2005-08-06
126730:US	49355567	R2J4PP6ESSUYHF	0312304358	599626566	Moloka'i: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	FATHER DAMIEN WOULD BE PROUD...	In the Hawaii of more than a century ago, nothing struck more fear into the hearts of those that lived there than hearing the dreaded word, \\"leprosy\\", spoken in connection with themselves or a family member. To hear that pronouncement was to stigmatize the family of the afflicted, and for the afflicted it was to signal the end of life as one knew it and the beginning of another life: that of the living dead.<br /><br />In those days, leprosy, or what would in more enlightened times be known as Hansen's disease, would consign the unfortunate individual to total banishment from all that the individual held dear. The leprous party would be removed, by force if necessary,  and exiled from one's home, family, and friends. All such individuals were then sent to live  on the restricted and undeveloped segment of Moloka'i island that was reserved for lepers.<br /><br />It mattered not that the individual so separated from one's family was a child. The only thing that mattered to the officials carrying out their duty was the containment of the dreaded disease. This was how they chose to address what was then perceived to be a contagious disease with  disfiguring consequences. Such is the story of Rachel Kalama, who towards the end of the nineteenth century, at the age of seven, was separated from the bosom of her loving family. Tossed upon the shores of Moloka'i with other individuals defiled with the same dreaded disease, a frightened Rachel eventually manages to make a life for herself on the island. This is her story.<br /><br />Through Rachel's eyes, the reader sees what life was like on the leper colony for those souls unfortunate enough to find themselves so exiled. Rachel finds herself reunited with her Uncle Pono who had also been afflicted by this disease and exiled to Moloka'i.  Rachel is also enveloped by a new mother figure, the healer Haleola, Uncle Pono's companion. Moreover, Sister Mary Catherine Voorhies,a young  nun from the Franciscan order whose mission it was to tend to the female children on the island, takes a special interest in Rachel and a long standing relationship is born.<br /><br />Slowly, a new family circle develops around Rachel, as she is seemingly forgotten by the family from whom she was separated. The only one of her immediate family who occasionally stays in touch with Rachel is her father.  Rachel grows and develops while at the colony, and through her eyes the reader sees the changes that occur on the island over time. As Rachel grows up, the reader is introduced to a host of rich and clearly defined characters that interact with Rachel and help her to become the vibrant young woman that she eventually becomes.<br /><br />Her self-realization, however, is not accomplished without pain. Rachel eventually  marries a Japanese-American also consigned to Moloka'i and bears a child, but children born in the leper colony at Moloka'i were immediately removed  from their leprous parents in order to avoid their being infected with the disease. They would then be sent from Moloka'i to live with relatives or be adopted by strangers. So, even happy occasions such as marriage and parenthood had the shadow of leprosy cast upon it.<br /><br />This is a beautifully written, well-researched work of historical fiction. With its richly delineated characters, I found myself totally immersed in the story of Rachel, and the life that she managed to carve for herself. The narrative is quite descriptive, and I found myself  fascinated by the workings of the leper colony and the changes that it would undergo over time, as well as by its unique identity.  It is a well told story of the resilience of the human spirit, and its will to triumph in even the most dire of circumstances. Bravo!was to tend to the female children on the island, takes a special interest in Rachel and a long standing relationship is born.<br /><br />Slowly, a new family circle develops around Rachel, as she is seemingly forgotten by the family from whom she was separated. The only one of her immediate family who occasionally stays in touch with Rachel is her father.  Rachel grows and develops while at the colony, and through her eyes the reader sees the changes that occur on the island over time. As Rachel grows up, the reader is introduced to a host of rich and clearly defined characters that interact with Rachel and help her to become the vibrant young woman that she eventually becomes.<br /><br />Her self-realization, however, is not accomplished without pain. Rachel eventually  marries a Japanese-American also consigned to Moloka'i and bears a child, but children born in the leper colony at Moloka'i were immediately removed  from their leprous parents in order to avoid their being infected with the disease. They would then be sent from Moloka'i to live with relatives or be adopted by strangers. So, even happy occasions such as marriage and parenthood had the shadow of leprosy cast upon it.<br /><br />This is a beautifully written, well-researched work of historical fiction. With its richly delineated characters, I found myself totally immersed in the story of Rachel, and the life that she managed to carve for herself. The narrative is quite descriptive, and I found myself  fascinated by the workings of the leper colony and the changes that it would undergo over time, as well as by its unique identity.  It is a well told story of the resilience of the human spirit, and its will to triumph in even the most dire of circumstances. Bravo!	2005-08-06
126803:US	49355567	RIMDA89V5GMKH	344235482X	22840658	Das Elixier (German Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	TO BE OR NOT TO BE..	The author has written a great bio-technical thriller that will have the reader glued to the pages of the book until the end. It is a well-written, highly suspenseful novel that heralds a novelist whose prose is spare, lean, and taut, moving the story along at a brisk pace. Fans of Michael Crichton and Robin Cook will, undoubtedly, enjoy this well paced thriller, as will anyone who appreciates a great story.<br /><br />This is, however, a plot driven novel, rather than character driven. As such, the characters, at times, may not seem fully fleshed. This is no matter, as the characters serve to move the plot along, and a very intriguing plot it is. What would you do if you were offered a chance to drink from the fountain of youth?<br /><br />That is just the opportunity that is offered to Christopher Bacon, an intrepid chemist/biologist and premier researcher for a Boston based pharmaceutical company, while doing research on medicinal plants in the rainforest of Papua, New Guinea. When a tribal medicine man offers him the opportunity for longevity in the guise of a flower, Christopher decides to conduct secret, unauthorized experiments on the flower at his laboratory.<br /><br />Unbeknownst to Christopher, however, Quentin Cross, the pharmaceutical firm's Chief Financial Officer, is gambling heavily on the success of a potential cancer wonder drug that Christopher and his staff are working on. Quentin finds himself in the untenable position of being financially indebted to a murderous drug baron for the crop of the very high-priced, indigenous apricots necessary to the production of the hoped for synthetic toxogen.<br /><br />When the production yield of the toxogen turns out not to be commercially viable and the piper must be paid, a desperate Quentin discovers the secret experiments that Christopher has been conducting. It appears that laboratory test animals have stopped aging and have even had their biological clocks turned back. Quentin sees this as his chance for salvation from certain death at the hands of the drug lord to whom he owes a great deal of money.<br /><br />It seems that Christopher has produced a commercially viable compound from that rainforest flower, which can retard the aging process and extend one's life span. It does, however, have a catch to it. Moreover, this so called wonder drug will serve to create a philosophical divide between Christopher and his wife. Little does he know the effect that his discovery would have on him, his family, his friends, and, ultimately, the world.<br /><br />This novel  has enough twists and turns to keep the most demanding reader satisfied. It is multi-layered and complex, providing an entertaining and engrossing read while proffering a whole host of ethical, philosophical, and public policy dilemmas for consideration. This outstanding thriller provides much food for thought buried between its lines. It is a book that will have the reader riveted to its pages until the very last one is turned. This German text edition of \\"Elixir\\" will allow speakers of German to enjoy this highly entertaining book.or salvation from certain death at the hands of the drug lord to whom he owes a great deal of money.<br /><br />It seems that Christopher has produced a commercially viable compound from that rainforest flower, which can retard the aging process and extend one's life span. It does, however, have a catch to it. Moreover, this so called wonder drug will serve to create a philosophical divide between Christopher and his wife. Little does he know the effect that his discovery would have on him, his family, his friends, and, ultimately, the world.<br /><br />This novel  has enough twists and turns to keep the most demanding reader satisfied. It is multi-layered and complex, providing an entertaining and engrossing read while proffering a whole host of ethical, philosophical, and public policy dilemmas for consideration. This outstanding thriller provides much food for thought buried between its lines. It is a book that will have the reader riveted to its pages until the very last one is turned. This German text edition of \\"Elixir\\" will allow speakers of German to enjoy this highly entertaining book.	2005-08-06
127005:US	49355567	R1BYNR3PDFLXVW	8447300013	799167340	El Perfume Historia De Un Asesino	Books	5	0	0	N	N	UNA DE LAS MEJORES NOVELAS....	This is the Spanish text edition of a novel so beautifully written that it transcends into literature. Ingenious in its conception and carefully crafted, the author has created a unique and dazzling work of fiction. Divided into three parts, the book tells the story of a most unusual life, that of Jean-Baptiste Grenouille.<br /><br />The first part of the book establishes that he was born to a woman who was hung from a gibbet for having left him to die. It turns out that Jean-Baptiste is an unusual baby. He gives people the willies, because, unlike most babies, Jean-Baptiste has no scent.<br /><br />Over time, Jean-Baptiste develops into a boy with a secret gift. His olfactory sense is developed to a degree unheard of in humans. He delights in parsing the odors around him. Ugly, friendless, and a loner, he eventually ventures into the city of Paris, a malodorous and pungent cornucopia of smells. Believe me, there is plenty to sniff out in eighteenth century Paris! Jean-Baptiste savors each whiff, and the book conveys these olfactory delights with meticulous, descriptive precision.<br /><br />His bleak existence is transformed, however, when he one day captures a heady scent of such exquisite beauty that he finds himself obsessed with it. Determined to have that scent at all costs, he eventually sniffs it out. It turns out to be the scent of a young virgin on the cusp of flowering into a woman. It is a scent that he must possess. What he does to do so will surely chill the reader.<br /><br />Jean-Baptiste eventually maneuvers to get himself apprenticed to a perfumer, so that he can have the opportunity to learn the trade and create scents. He leads a bleak existence, subsisting as little more than a slave to the perfumer for whom he works. But no matter, for he learns all that he needs to know.<br /><br />The second part of the book begins when Jean-Baptiste leave his employer and goes on a personal pilgrimage, leading an austere existence away from civilization for many years. There, he withdraws into himself even further, living a totally self-sustaining, hermitic existence. He ultimately realizes what other have sensed about him. Jean-Baptiste has no personal scent. He simply does not smell.<br /><br />With this knowledge, he returns to civilization where, having lived as practically an animal for many years, he creates a fictitious and adventurous scenario to account for his filthy and disgusting appearance. Subsequently, he is taken under the wing of some local nobility and feted and pampered. Realizing the importance of scent, he creates a personal scent for himself. He now realizes that he who has the power over scent can rule supreme. He intends to do so.<br /><br />The third part of the book has Jean-Baptiste migrating to a town that is the hub for the scent trade. Perfumes, oils, and soaps are the stock in trade for this town and, as such, beckon brightly to Jean-Baptiste. Once there, he again smells a scent so delectable that he longs to possess it. He knows that scent for what it is and now knows that it is the scent, and not the personal charms of its bearer, that captures the attention and devotion of others. Jean Baptiste wants to harness that scent at all costs. He desperately desires the power to make others love him. He wants to be supreme.<br /><br />It is his desperate desire to harness and possess that celestial scent that causes Jean-Baptiste, a socio-path with little empathy for others, to prey upon the maidens of the town in order to obtain that which he needs. It is his obsession that lays at the heart of the vortex that arises in the town, as murder after murder occurs. Yet, no one suspects him.<br /><br />What ultimately happens leads to an almost unbelievable climax, when Jean-Baptiste finds himself consumed by the passion he has managed to arouse in others through scent. This is a heady, quirky, and compelling debut novel, like nothing I have ever before read. Complex and lyrical in its telling, itis a novel that stays with the reader long after the last page is turned. Bravo!is a novel that stays with the reader long after the last page is turned. Bravo!	2005-08-06
127007:US	49355567	RTLSEY1ELK0GA	1566194873	584095688	My Antonia	Books	5	4	4	N	N	AN AMERICAN CLASSIC...	I first read this book when I was in junior high school. I admit that, at the time, I did not appreciate the strengths of the book and the quality of its writing. I am quite glad that I decided to give it another chance, as, having re-read it,  I now understand why it is considered to be a classic in literature. It is simply a beautifully written book, covering many of the themes that one stumbles across in life and coalescing them into a work of extraordinary breadth.<br /><br />The book is the story of two young people, Jim Burden and Antonia Shimerda. They meet for the first time when Jim is ten years old and Antonia is fourteen. Recently orphaned, Jim has moved to the Great Prairie to live with his grandparents in Nebraska. Antonia, on the other hand, has been wrenched from her homeland in Bohemia, emigrating with her parents to the United States and finding herself in Nebraska. Jim and Antonia's chance encounter on a train sets the stage for the forging of a friendship and unconditional love that time will not diminish.<br /><br />The book relates the harshness of immigrant life through the eyes of Jim, who narrates the events contained in the book. There is a relentless stoicism about the book, which is written in spare, clear prose. With intense imagery and descriptive exactitude, late nineteenth century Nebraska comes to life. It also relates the paths that each of the characters choose to follow, as well as the vicissitudes of life that mold and shape them in ways that no one would have imagined.<br /><br />The focus of the book, which is also a coming of age tale, seems to be on the female characters and their strengths. All the women in it seem to be survivors, despite the hardships that they encounter. This is, without a doubt, a life affirming book, wrought with great feeling and a decided sense of time and place. Yet, despite its poignancy, the book is surprisingly unsentimental and straightforward. It is a testament to the author's literary talent that this book has emerged as a timeless classic. Bravo!t this book has emerged as a timeless classic. Bravo!	2005-08-06
127131:US	49355567	R220WD7A8Y0YXQ	0641584660	534373044	Nanny Diaries	Books	3	1	2	N	N	DOES NOT MERIT THE HYPE IT RECEIVED...	I had originally thought that this was going to be a work of non-fiction in a nanny tell all. It turned out, instead, to be a mildly funny look at the rich and obnoxious and their young children through the eyes of a spineless nanny. While some of this book is amusing, it is not particularly well written. It is the kind of book you read once, and then promptly forget. It is not a bad book, as it is somewhat entertaining. What this book really represents is what happens when a book grabs the attention of the media. It becomes a best seller. Long after the dust settles, I anticipate that this book will be to the publishing world, what a one hit wonder is to the music industry.<br /><br />This work of fiction provides caricatures of selfish, self-absorbed, wealthy parents and a peek into the life of their overly-structured and overly-managed offspring. The nanny in question is also a caricature, as she struggles to be appear good hearted, but in the end is just a spineless jellyfish who goes along with the program, no matter how offensive she may find her employers and their demands to be. The nanny tries to come across as an underprivileged, put upon employee, but is, in reality, part of the problem, as she is certainly not a part of the solution. She is an upper middle class young woman who attends a prestigious university. She is hardly one of the hoi polloi, no matter how much she may empathize with those who are truly at the mercy of employers such as the ones found in this book. As social satire this book falls short. Borrow it from the library. Do not bother to buy it, as it is a one note book. If you feel that you must buy it, do yourself a favor and buy the paperback, as it is not a book that you would want to keep. It is a quick, throwaway read.	2005-08-06
127324:US	49355567	R38PUZQB3G38QQ	1862075212	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: Undercover in Low-Wage America	Books	3	40	64	N	N	IDEOLOGICALLY BIASED ACCOUNT...	This is a well-written, interesting, anecdotal book about a well-educated woman's sojourn among the working poor. If only the author had stopped there, the book still would have been a hit. Instead, the author chose to claim it to be representative undercover reportage. Unfortunately, she does not do this with any objectivity, as she views all that she does through liberal, rose colored glasses. Nor does she live as the truly working poor do, as her existence is isolated, cut off from all support systems. While the author received raves from the New York Times Book Review, which acclaimed the author as \\"...the premier reporter of the underside of capitalism\\", the reader should remember that the New York Times is the bastion of East Coast liberalism and take such praise with a grain of salt.<br /><br />The author comes across as a somewhat vapid individual, whose inherent biases and expectations prevent her from being able to live as a true member of the working poor or interact with them on a truly human level. She objects to having to take drug tests in order to secure a minimum wage position, stating that the costs of such a test outweigh the benefits, without any clear understanding, other than the cost of the drug test itself, of what the potential costs of employing substance abusers would be. She authoritatively uses statistics willy-nilly without grounding them in an appropriate context. The author does, however, establish one very important key point that would certainly tend to keep the working poor running in place, and that has to do with the cost of housing. The book leaves little doubt that there needs to be more affordable housing for the working poor. Yet, the author offers no suggestions as to how that would best be accomplished.<br /><br />Moreover, the author, during her work as a cleaner for a cleaning service company, seems to have a lot of negative things to say about people who have had some demonstrable achievements in life. The author seems to forget that in almost every chapter she does not hesitate to remind the reader that she holds a Ph.D, is middle class, educated, yada, yada, yada. The one positive thing that comes out of her experience as a cleaner is that she points out that some cleaning service companies are doing a pretty filthy job of cleaning people's homes. Thanks, Barbara, for the tip, as I would now never consider using such, preferring to do it myself. Unfortunately, her remarks just might cause some of these companies to lose business, causing them to cut back on personnel, the very working poor of whom the author writes.<br /><br />While the book is interesting at times, the pretentiousness of the author is generally grating and the books ends up being a poor execution of its promise. The author is the quintessential do-gooder, placed in settings of which she has little understanding other than her own pre-conceived, ideologically based ones. It is true that minimum wage will never allow anyone to flourish without some sort of support system in place. Minimum wage is nothing more than what its name states it is. Minimum wage, however, allows the unskilled, minimally experienced worker to get some job experience and a proven track record in terms of the work world. Moreover, some of the problems that the author mentions are just those of bad management by those in positions of power. This is not, however, a situation relegated to those who hold minimum wage jobs. Corporate America is rife with bad management and bosses that treat their employees, even well-compensated ones, badly.o forget that in almost every chapter she does not hesitate to remind the reader that she holds a Ph.D, is middle class, educated, yada, yada, yada. The one positive thing that comes out of her experience as a cleaner is that she points out that some cleaning service companies are doing a pretty filthy job of cleaning people's homes. Thanks, Barbara, for the tip, as I would now never consider using such, preferring to do it myself. Unfortunately, her remarks just might cause some of these companies to lose business, causing them to cut back on personnel, the very working poor of whom the author writes.<br /><br />While the book is interesting at times, the pretentiousness of the author is generally grating and the books ends up being a poor execution of its promise. The author is the quintessential do-gooder, placed in settings of which she has little understanding other than her own pre-conceived, ideologically based ones. It is true that minimum wage will never allow anyone to flourish without some sort of support system in place. Minimum wage is nothing more than what its name states it is. Minimum wage, however, allows the unskilled, minimally experienced worker to get some job experience and a proven track record in terms of the work world. Moreover, some of the problems that the author mentions are just those of bad management by those in positions of power. This is not, however, a situation relegated to those who hold minimum wage jobs. Corporate America is rife with bad management and bosses that treat their employees, even well-compensated ones, badly.	2005-08-06
127589:US	49355567	R1YMVY0Z6B4N9L	8535905839	658207620	Alerta Negro (Em Portugues do Brasil)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	NOT JUST ANOTHER WEREWOLF STORY...	This is the Portuguese text edition of \\"Black Notice\\", an intriguing and well crafted Kay Scarpetta mystery, which begins promisingly enough with the discovery of an overly ripe, dead body. Found stashed in a locked and sealed freight container aboard a cargo ship from Belgium that has landed in Dr. Kay Scarpetta's jurisdiction of Richmond, Virginia, the male, mystery corpse is covered with loose hairs. This intriguing beginning sends Dr. Kay Scarpetta, Richmond, Virginia's Chief Medical Examiner, on a hunt for information that turns international in scope. She discovers that this is just one of a number of murders to contain those tell tale hairs.<br /><br />The murders, themselves, are graphic and the forensic details, as always, are fascinating, and Dr. Scarpetta's critical analysis of the pathology issues are well thought out and highly informative, as she sifts through the forensic evidence in order to profile the killer. Her assessment of the peculiar affliction of this serial killer is intriguing, providing scientific insight into creatures who were called werewolves, but who may have only been persons with a rare and unusual genetic condition, causing them to be especially hirsute, among other anomalies.<br /><br />Moreover, there are a number of subplots afoot. Dr. Scarpetta, who is recovering from the death of her lover, Wesley Benton, faces a number of problems closer to home. It seems that she has been the victim of identity theft, with her internet screen name being used to set up a phony chat room, and personally destructive emails being sent falsely under her screen name.<br /><br />To add fuel to the fire, a new Deputy Chief in the Richmond police Department, Diane Bray, and has managed to demote Dr. Scarpetta's long time friend, Homicide Detective Pete Marino. Having her own secret agenda, Bray has turned her sights onto Dr. Scarpetta, desiring to get jurisdiction over the Medical Examiner's Office. Perfidy also exist among Dr. Scarpetta's trusted staff, and her niece Lucy, who is still not operating with a full deck, is on a dangerous, undercover police mission with her lover in Miami, adding yet another worry to Dr. Scarpetta's already full plate.<br /><br />It is the camaraderie between Pete Marino and Dr. Kay Scarpetta, however, that holds this particular book together. Their repartee and dialogue is wonderful, giving evidence of their comfortable and close relationship, without saying so in so many words. They carp as if they were an old married couple. Lucy, Dr. Scarpetta's niece, however, is still a loose cannon, and it is unbelievable that any police agency would allow her to run around with a gun in her hand, given her record for shooting it off. Mercifully, this annoying character has a smaller role than usual in this novel, and the reader may only hope that she will either be written out altogether or get an attitude adjustment.<br /><br />The ending of the book, however, is a little too pat. Dr. Scarpetta's actions in the book's grand finale are not really believable for such an astute and normally cautious woman. Given what she already knows about the killer, her actions in the end bespeak more of the actions of an unknowing civilian. Still, this book does not fail to entertain and is sure to provide reading pleasure for many Kay Scarpetta devotees.taff, and her niece Lucy, who is still not operating with a full deck, is on a dangerous, undercover police mission with her lover in Miami, adding yet another worry to Dr. Scarpetta's already full plate.<br /><br />It is the camaraderie between Pete Marino and Dr. Kay Scarpetta, however, that holds this particular book together. Their repartee and dialogue is wonderful, giving evidence of their comfortable and close relationship, without saying so in so many words. They carp as if they were an old married couple. Lucy, Dr. Scarpetta's niece, however, is still a loose cannon, and it is unbelievable that any police agency would allow her to run around with a gun in her hand, given her record for shooting it off. Mercifully, this annoying character has a smaller role than usual in this novel, and the reader may only hope that she will either be written out altogether or get an attitude adjustment.<br /><br />The ending of the book, however, is a little too pat. Dr. Scarpetta's actions in the book's grand finale are not really believable for such an astute and normally cautious woman. Given what she already knows about the killer, her actions in the end bespeak more of the actions of an unknowing civilian. Still, this book does not fail to entertain and is sure to provide reading pleasure for many Kay Scarpetta devotees.	2005-08-06
127708:US	49355567	R2A09IO9L60Z23	0747257906	373226516	Pop Goes the Weasel (Alex Cross)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	THIS TIME IT'S PERSONAL...	This book starts out as an intriguing thriller. A series of murders is sweeping Southeast Washington, DC. Detective Alex Cross, psychologist and expert profiler, nicknames this remorseless, stealthy, and psychopathic killer \\"The Weasel\\" and is itching to capture him.<br /><br />From the beginning, the reader knows who the killer is. He is none other than urbane, British diplomat, Geoffrey Shafer, who is playing a macabre, role playing game through the internet with some of his former buddies from British intelligence. His role, appropriately enough, is \\"Death\\". The problem is that for Shafer it is no longer a game. It is an obsession.<br /><br />Meanwhile, Detective Alex Cross and his long time main squeeze, Christine, have decided to get married, despite his relentless pursuit of \\"The Weasel\\". Just before they actually do so, however, this diabolical fiend creates a serious hitch in their wedding plans. Cross carries on, as \\"The Weasel\\" plays a cat and mouse game with him. There are a number of surprising moves and countermoves, though it seems that Detective Cross is always on the receiving end.<br /><br />Unfortunately, while the book starts out with a bang, it sort of ends with a whimper. The author simply fails to realize the promise inherent in the book. The resolution of the issue involving his fiancee, Christine, is simply unrealistic. The final ending, however, with regards to Shafer is somewhat intriguing, as it leaves open the possibility of a sequel with this most intriguing killer.	2005-08-06
127729:US	49355567	R24KK1GI3TN1F5	8433908669	161893141	El Beso (Panorama de Narrativas) (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	DISTURBING AND INTIMATE LOOK INTO A FORBIDDEN RELATIONSHIP...	This is the Spanish text edition of \\"The Kiss\\",  an elegantly written memoir, searingly painful, yet, at the same time, strangely compelling, about a young woman who grew up in a dysfunctional household, raised primarily by her grandparents. Her undemonstrative mother, who lived apart from her daughter during her formative years, was emotionally distant, and her father, from whom her mother was divorced, was physically absent.<br /><br />When she was reunited with her father at the age of twenty, her hunger for love and affection was such that an unfatherly kiss led to a consensual and obsessive sexual affair with her biological father, an ordained minister. It was an obsession in which her own mother was seemingly complicit, treating her daughter as if she were a rival for the affection of the man that they both loved. The author's unseemly obsession with her father would torment and haunt her for years.<br /><br />This is a beautifully told story about a parental betrayal so incomprehensible that it will leave the reader aghast. The author infuses the book with a sadness that is heartbreakingly palpable. Her evocative and lyrical prose, spare and intense, elevates this otherwise sordid and tawdry tale, making it a haunting memoir of a past that is best forgotten.	2005-08-06
127880:US	49355567	RJHKQDSO1UR61	0641616414	598224178	One Door Away from Heaven	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A MUMBO JUMBO GUMBO...	I enjoyed this book and wavered on the rating. I had a difficult time deciding whether to rate it a three or a four. I finally decided on three because, while it is an enjoyable read, it is not one of his best. Those who read and enjoyed the author's last book, \\"From the Corner Of His Eye\\", as I did, will, undoubtedly, enjoy this one, though it is not as good.<br /><br />Here, this genre bending book, written with wry humor, has a series of subplots and colorful characters with improbable names that propel the story forward. Twenty-eight year old Michelina Birdsong is a young and beautiful woman with a troubled past. Living in a trailer park with her eccentric aunt, Geneva, she lacks focus and is overly fond of lemon flavored vodka. It is as if she has lost the will to live.<br /><br />When she gets new neighbors in the mobile home next door, one of whom is the precocious and physically deformed nine year, Leilani Klonk, her heart is touched most unexpectedly by the pathos of her young life. As Leilani is living with a drug crazed mother and step-father, a sociopathic \\"doctor\\" who may be a serial killer, Mickey finds herself wanting to make Leilani's life better and in doing so, redeeming her own. When Leilani and her family precipitously abandon their mobile home one night, Michelina, fearing the worst for Leilani, springs into action and finds herself in hot pursuit of this family, hoping to avert a tragedy.<br /><br />Meanwhile, a young motherless boy, who calls himself Curtis, and his dog, a Labrador with whom he has a most unique relationship, are racing away from their own potential Armageddon. This boy, too, is precocious and quite gifted, but seems to lack a true understanding of the ways and customs of those whom he meets. He is just a beat off. Still, while there is something odd about him, it is clear that, though he seems to have unusual gifts, he has a pure spirit and is a good boy running from a great evil. His pursuers, seemingly invincible and other worldly, will stop at nothing to get a hold of Curtis and keep him from his mission. The journey that Curtis makes is quite astonishing.<br /><br />At some point the paths of these main characters improbably cross and all is made somewhat, though not totally, clear. The book, which is an imaginative blend of suspense, science fiction, and bioethical philosophy, has somewhat religious or quasi-spiritual overtones, as it boils down to the quintessential battle between good and evil. In this book, Koontz continues on the path he forged with his previous book, \\"From the Corner of His Eye\\". To where that path will ultimately lead, however, remains to be seen.worldly, will stop at nothing to get a hold of Curtis and keep him from his mission. The journey that Curtis makes is quite astonishing.<br /><br />At some point the paths of these main characters improbably cross and all is made somewhat, though not totally, clear. The book, which is an imaginative blend of suspense, science fiction, and bioethical philosophy, has somewhat religious or quasi-spiritual overtones, as it boils down to the quintessential battle between good and evil. In this book, Koontz continues on the path he forged with his previous book, \\"From the Corner of His Eye\\". To where that path will ultimately lead, however, remains to be seen.	2005-08-06
127899:US	49355567	R18MYE4QZMIMV6	1572704667	59773996	The Daughter of Time	Books	5	5	5	N	N	PART ENGLISH MYSTERY...PART ENGLISH HISTORY...	This is a wonderful genre bending book...part mystery, part history. Written by Scotswoman Elizabeth MacIntosh, who wrote under the pen name Josephine Tey, it was first published in 1951. It is tragic that the author died in 1952 and was never to know the pleasure that this book would bring to generations of readers and that the Mystery Writers of America would ultimately rank it fourth among the one hundred best mysteries ever written.<br /><br />The title of the book is derived from a historical source, as it is attributable to Sir Francis Bacon, \\"For truth is rightly named after the daughter of time, and not of authority.\\" The book itself is not a traditional mystery but rather an application of deductive reasoning to an actual historical event. The event in question is the murder of the princes in the tower, sons of King Edward IV, allegedly by their uncle, Richard III, who eventually usurped the English throne after the death of his brother. It has been widely held that Richard III did, indeed, murder the two young princes, his nephews, in order to secure his claim to the throne.<br /><br />The reader is introduced to Scotland Yard Inspector Alan Grant, who is hospitalized and recovering from injuries sustained in the line of duty. While convalescing, he becomes intrigued by a picture of a portrait of Richard III, a likeness with which he is unfamiliar. Grant is puzzled that someone with such a sensitive face could have been such a monster as to murder his two nephews in cold blood. So, our intrepid Inspector decides that he will reconsider the evidence upon which such a dastardly assumption has been based. With the help of an American researcher doing the necessary legwork, Grant compiles enough archival historical fact that incrementally helps him formulate a new theory as to who actually may have murdered the princes in the tower.<br /><br />This analysis and reformulation is done as though it were being argued to a jury. Indeed, so persuasive is Inspector Grant through the application of some insightful deductive reasoning and clever dialogue that the reader comes away thinking that Grant has solved one of the most intriguing historical mysteries of all time. This is certainly an unusual book conceptually but one that succeeds brilliantly. It should appeal to those readers who enjoy having a mystery unraveled, as well as to those who harbor a love of English history.<br /><br />Derek Jacobi gives a lively and spirited reading. He positively shines when reading the role of Detective Grant and gives a most persuasive characterization. It almost more a performance than a reading. The only slight problem is that when incorporating the role of the American researcher into the reading, his American accent falters a bit. Despite this small issue, however, his reading of this brilliant work is one of the most engaging that I have ever heard in an audio book. Bravo!rant through the application of some insightful deductive reasoning and clever dialogue that the reader comes away thinking that Grant has solved one of the most intriguing historical mysteries of all time. This is certainly an unusual book conceptually but one that succeeds brilliantly. It should appeal to those readers who enjoy having a mystery unraveled, as well as to those who harbor a love of English history.<br /><br />Derek Jacobi gives a lively and spirited reading. He positively shines when reading the role of Detective Grant and gives a most persuasive characterization. It almost more a performance than a reading. The only slight problem is that when incorporating the role of the American researcher into the reading, his American accent falters a bit. Despite this small issue, however, his reading of this brilliant work is one of the most engaging that I have ever heard in an audio book. Bravo!	2005-08-06
128006:US	49355567	R11H2FO21BRGL3	8423334384	833799440	LA Visita Del Medico De Camara (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	UNA NOVELA HISTORICA ...	Having read \\"Lost Queen\\" by Norah Lofts, which book was a work of historical fiction that covered much of the same story told by this author, there could not be two books more different, though both are riveting. The major difference is in the writing style. The book by Ms. Lofts is superlative and tells an interesting, intriguing, though somewhat superficial story about the love triangle consisting of the mad king of Denmark, Christian VII, his wife, Queen Caroline Mathilde, and the royal physician, Johann Struensee. This author, on the other hand, rips the reader's guts out with its angst filled, staccato telling of the same story. It is a more literary book than that of Ms. Lofts and compelling in its own way, a beautifully written work of historical fiction that will keep the reader riveted to its pages until the very end.<br /><br />It, too, tells the story of Princess Caroline Mathilde of England, sister to King George III. At the age of fifteen she was wed to young King Christian VII, who eventually became known as the mad king of Denmark. Temperamental, high strung, and given to strange outbursts, his predilection for odd behavior was known early on, but despite this the two kingdoms would still see these two wed, as the unification of England and Denmark was more important than individual happiness.<br /><br />King Christian VII was a truly pitiable figure who had survived a childhood fueled by rank cruelty and was easy prey for the sycophants of the Danish court. He developed a peculiar aversion to his wife and, consequently, had conjugal relations with her only once, which propitiously resulted in the birth of a son nine months later. Alone in a foreign country, whose language she was only beginning to learn, and estranged from a King surrounded by sycophants, the young queen gravitated to the one person who treated her as a person in her own right, the King's physician, Johann Struensee.<br /><br />An advocate of the philosophy of Enlightenment that was overtaking Europe, the idealistic Struensee had many ideas that were introduced as reforms in Denmark, through his influence with the King, who by now was easily led, since his madness left a void in leadership that Struensee was all to happy to fill. These reforms were to make many enemies for him, as they upset the established feudal system that still existed in eighteenth century Denmark. As he gained power through his influence, resentment against him grew within those circles that had formerly been close to the King. Unaware of the growing animosity against him and lacking political canniness, Struensee and the Queen became close intimates, bound by shared ideas and interests.<br /><br />Struensee's relationship with the Queen, who was lonely and starved for affection, eventually transgressed the bounds set by propriety. Now lovers in fact, their relationship became grist for the rumor mill. She even gave birth to a daughter who the King acknowledged as his own but who was actually Stuensee's. As gossip and innuendo about their relationship swirled across royal circles in Europe, it ultimately became the focal point for a political coup that saw them both arrested and charged with treason. It was a relationship that was to have great personal and political ramifications for the protagonists, as well as for Denmark. What ultimately happened to each of them was tragic, governed as it was by the initial reluctance of the Danes to give up their feudal system. Even those whom Struensee championed through his reforms, the peasant class, turned against him in the end.<br /><br />This is the Spanish text edition of \\"The Royal Physician's Visit\\", a richly atmospheric work of historical fiction, filled with political intrigue, historical personages and events, shadowed by darkness and a palpable sorrow apparent in each and every one of its pages. It is as if the individual psyche of each of the protagonists were driving the book, giving it texture, shadings, and glimpsesinto the psyche of those involved in this high drama. It is an angst filled, almost surreal, rendering of lives that were to come together and leave a mark on the world, making for a story that to this day has the power to captivate the reader. Bravo!into the psyche of those involved in this high drama. It is an angst filled, almost surreal, rendering of lives that were to come together and leave a mark on the world, making for a story that to this day has the power to captivate the reader. Bravo!	2005-08-06
128083:US	49355567	R1XBUZKOQKV0P6	1402545061	54087500	The Absence of Nectar {Unabridged Audio}	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A QUIRKY AND ENGAGING COMING OF AGE STORY...	This is an unusual and engrossing page turner of a novel, beautifully and deftly written. In this, her second novel, the author sustains the quality of writing found in her amazing first book, \\"The House of Gentle Men\\". Those readers, who have read and enjoyed the author's first novel, will certainly love this book. I know I did.<br /><br />\\"The Absence of Nectar\\" is a well crafted thriller, as well as an unusual coming of age novel. The author, a masterful storyteller, is highly adept at building suspense. This book will certainly keep the discerning reader turning its pages.<br /><br />The story involves a precocious eleven year old girl, Alice Fendar, and her brother, Boone, who is two years older than his sister. He has an unusual pen pal, Persely Snow, a teen age girl who was committed to a mental hospital for allegedly trying to kill both her parents and succeeding in killing one. Persely has become a local folk hero, because of her legendary escapes from confinement, and Boone fancies himself in love with her.<br /><br />Alice and Boone live with their mother, Meg, after their father abandoned the family over another woman. The mother eventually meets another man, Simon Jester, when he saves her from drowning, while she is swimming with her children. He later tells her that he is a widower, having lost his wife and three year old child in a drowning accident. She is swept off her feet by him, and they marry.<br /><br />For some reason, the sassy and intelligent Alice does not take to her new step-father. Something about him, to her mind, is just not right. She scoffs at his assertion that he is a widower who lost his wife and three year old child in a drowning accident. In fact, she feels that there is something about him that seems to be downright evil. As time passes, Simon begins to reveal more and more of his true nature, and it appears that Alice just may be onto something, after all. Meanwhile, Boone is oblivious to all but his obsession with Persely Snow.<br /><br />Alice, herself, falls prey to an obsession. She becomes convinced that Simon is trying to kill her and Boone. Her brother finds that the easiest course to take is that of the path of least resistance, and so he falls in with Alice in her schemes to thwart Simon. At times, the book is terribly funny, at other times, achingly sad. The events set into motion one night will reveal to the reader what is really going on. It will also reveal the role that Persely Snow ultimately plays in all their lives. It is a role that rises to almost mythic stature.<br /><br />This lyrically written book is strangely compelling, quirky, and riveting, holding the reader in its thrall. It is a stunning and triumphant tour de force by the author.ow.<br /><br />Alice, herself, falls prey to an obsession. She becomes convinced that Simon is trying to kill her and Boone. Her brother finds that the easiest course to take is that of the path of least resistance, and so he falls in with Alice in her schemes to thwart Simon. At times, the book is terribly funny, at other times, achingly sad. The events set into motion one night will reveal to the reader what is really going on. It will also reveal the role that Persely Snow ultimately plays in all their lives. It is a role that rises to almost mythic stature.<br /><br />This lyrically written book is strangely compelling, quirky, and riveting, holding the reader in its thrall. It is a stunning and triumphant tour de force by the author.	2005-08-06
128085:US	49355567	R2HD1KRV5G62PO	0451091930	579745872	The Fog	Books	5	0	1	N	N	BE AFRAID...BE VERY AFRAID...	This is a superlative, well-crafted horror story with quite an original storyline. Taking place in foggy, old England, a dense, yellowish fog suddenly arises from the bowels of the earth, infiltrating the minds of all whom it envelops and removing all restraint. Suddenly, formerly sane individuals find themselves acting as if they were beings out of Dante's Inferno. It is a disaster from which there is seemingly no end.<br /><br />As the fog moves from place to place, it leaves in its wake a swath of grisly devastation, as murder, rape, mass suicide, and looting become a way of life. Even animals succumb to the fog, which turns treasured pets into killers that their owners cannot control. Only one man has managed to emerge with his sanity still intact, and a group of scientists in an underground laboratory are laboring to find out the reason for his seeming immunity. For in him lies the secret to the fog's destruction and the liberation of mankind from the effects of the fog. Time, however, is of the essence and is running out.<br /><br />This is really a terrific novel, well-paced, tautly written, and totally absorbing. It is an absolute page turner, with scenes of horror written in a spare, no nonsense, matter of fact style, making it all the more believable and horrific, all while tinged by a trace of dark humor. The tension is crisply maintained throughout the entire book from start to finish, which makes for a riveting read that is hard to put down. This is a must read for all those who love a good horror story. Bravo!	2005-08-06
128842:US	49355567	R3HAK7L5ZZ6RDS	0736641335	582723746	The Bone Collector	Books	5	1	1	N	N	NO BONE TO PICK WITH THE BONE COLLECTOR...	This is an especially suspenseful thriller made more so by the personal angst of the main character, Lincoln Rhyme. A quadriplegic, forensic ex-detective for the New York City Police Department, Rhyme is brought out of retirement by the police department to assist them in the apprehension of an apparently psychopathic killer who is loose on the streets of New York.<br /><br />The forays into bits of arcane New York history, as well as the sleuthing done almost entirely through the application of forensics and deductive reasoning, make for a very interesting read. While at times it seems that no one could be as uncannily accurate as Rhyme in deciphering the meaning of the physical evidence, this contrivance does serve to move the plot along. With the story line so engrossing and the crime scenes horrific, as well as ingenious, it is the kind of book that is hard to put down, because you simply cannot wait to see what happens. The surprise ending is the icing on the cake.<br /><br />Assisting Rhyme with his work is Police Officer Sachs who, while not as compelling a character as Rhyme, is essential to the story. It is her character who does the 'heavy lifting' so to speak. Highly intelligent and resourceful, with an innate appreciation of the importance of physical evidence, she inspects and preserves the crime scenes, as well as gathers the physical evidence from which Rhyme ultimately weaves his magic. She also serves as somewhat of a Deus Ex Machina in that she saves the day in more ways than one.<br /><br />Sachs is a wonderful foil for Rhyme in that she runs hot to his cold. She is driven by her desire to help others, as well as by her own personal demons, while he is ever the calm, cool, collected clinician, whose desire to preserve a crime scene may supercede the milk of human kindness latent within his emotionally atrophied soul. The personal connection that Rhyme ultimately develops with Officer Sachs is one that leaves you hoping that they will be teamed up again in yet another novel.again in yet another novel.	2005-08-05
128973:US	49355567	R6D8FIUGQ5503	5553887410	813711365	Going Wrong-6 Cassettes	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A TWISTED TALE OF OBSESSIVE LOVE...	British author, Ruth Rendell, is, undoubtedly, the doyenne of psychological suspense, painting subtle portraits of offbeat, quirky characters that are just a tad off the beaten path. Delving into their psyches, she draws the reader into the slightly skewed world that they inhabit. Their world then becomes that of the reader, as the author weaves a tapestry of a world that is just a bit awry, deftly letting the reader know that something is wrong, so very wrong.<br /><br />The author does no less in this well-written novel, as she leads the reader into the mind and world of Guy Curran, a handsome, young man from the slums who has led a hard scrabble life, elevating himself from the bowels of poverty by dint of his own hard work and acquiring great wealth in the process. Unfortunately for him, that hard work included some less than reputable dealings in the drug trade, which provided the capital for his now legitimate businesses.<br /><br />For years, Guy has been obsessively in love with Leonora Chisholm, an upper class miss who, after years of being his reluctant childhood sweetheart, has rejected him and all the trappings of wealth and comfort he has to offer her. She prefers to live in genteel poverty with her friends, while acquiring a new boyfriend whom her family and friends like. Guy is convinced some of his past, shady dealings have come to the attention of someone in Leonora's family or inner circle. He believes that that individual has persuaded Leonora to turn away from him.<br /><br />Now, who would go and do such a thing? Read this well-written book and join Guy in the process of eliminating the likely suspect in this twisted tale of obsessive love.	2005-08-05
129190:US	49355567	R2IYQ76QVYYID4	0345333195	843636085	The Secret House of Death	Books	4	1	2	N	N	THINGS ARE NOT ALWAYS WHAT THEY SEEM...	Ruth Rendell is a brilliant writer of psychological suspense and mysteries. She is noted for her quirky characters and unlikely killers, many of whom seem quite ordinary. What they all seem to have is a dark side that manifests itself in the deadliest ways. This book is no exception.<br /><br />Here, an attractive young woman, Louise North, who lives in a suburban housing complex, is incessantly gossiped about by her neighbors. It seems that that when her handsome husband, Bob, leaves for work, Louise gets a male visitor whom all the neighbors think is her lover. Her neighbors marvel at the brazenness of this hussy living in their well-ordered midst. Imagine the boldness of Louise in having her lover park his car right in front of her home. What if her husband were to come home unexpectedly?<br /><br />When her next door neighbor, divorcee Susan Townsend, is inveigled by a distraught Louise to come over for coffee, Susan only reluctantly agrees, not wanting to be drawn into any sordid disclosures. After all, she does not engage in any of the vile gossip surrounding Louise and her romantic encounters with the mysterious gentleman caller. Still, the next day she goes to Louise's home at the appointed hour, only to find Louise and her ostensible lover locked in a deadly embrace.<br /><br />Naturally, under the circumstances, Susan and Bob find themselves drawing towards each other. Bob seeks out Susan, becoming a regular visitor, and before she knows it, Susan finds that she is more than happy to comfort Bob, and a relationship of sorts develops. Susan, however, gets a feeling as if she were a moth being drawn towards a flame. Something is askew. There is something wrong with the entire picture! She just doesn't know what. Slowly the pieces come together with the help of a stranger named David Chadwick. It may just be that things were not at all what they seemed in that cloistered suburban household inhabited by the Norths.<br /><br />This is an intriguing little mystery, though the characters are not as quirky or edgy as in many of the author's other books. Moreover, the mystery is not that much of a surprise, as the clues are all there for the discerning reader to piece together. Still, there are enough twists and turns to make for an entertaining, fast paced read. It is a book that will be enjoyed by all those who love a well-written mystery.ry, though the characters are not as quirky or edgy as in many of the author's other books. Moreover, the mystery is not that much of a surprise, as the clues are all there for the discerning reader to piece together. Still, there are enough twists and turns to make for an entertaining, fast paced read. It is a book that will be enjoyed by all those who love a well-written mystery.	2005-08-05
129275:US	49355567	R3VPBTEVFBHHMM	037001331X	347829765	The Coldest Climb: The Winter Ascent of Mt. McKinley	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A RECKLESS BUT MEMORABLE FEAT...	It is clear from the beginning of this book that trouble was looming on the horizon for these intrepid, but somewhat reckless, climbers. The loss early on of one of their comrades to a fall into a crevasse was predictable. How they could think of walking unroped, on a glacier that they knew was ridden with crevasses, is almost unbelievable. This was due, no doubt, to youthful inexperience and a lack of leadership necessary to set the parameters of what would be acceptable in terms of safety. These factors combined were to cost them dearly. It was not until near the end of their forty two day stay on the mountain, that they coalesced into a team.<br /><br />Notwithstanding the sheer recklessness of their initial, bumbling efforts at a winter ascent of Mt. McKinley, the fact remains that they did achieve the first such summit, no mean feat any time of year, but almost inconceivable in the dead of winter. Coming off the summit, their thermometer recorded the temperature at a quite bone chilling minus fifty eight degrees.<br /><br />Caught in a whiteout on their descent, however, the three summiteers were forced to dig a snow cave, where they were to spend endless days, in weather which saw temperatures plummet to an almost mind boggling minus one hundred and forty eight degrees with the wind chill factor. That they could survive this, is a testament to their fortitude. In their snow cave, it was a relatively toasty minus thirty five below. That snow cave was the only thing that stood between them and certain death. With virtually no food, frost bitten, and suffering from disorientation due to the altitude, they waited out the storm and lived to tell the tale.<br /><br />This gripping chronicle, of the forty two days they spent on the highest and coldest mountain in North America, is a classic in mountaineering literature and one of the best books on McKinley climbs. Those who love this genre will certainly enjoy this book.	2005-08-05
129656:US	49355567	R1RAD2EU1AC17A	8401463580	545314711	Carne Tremula (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	AN INTRIGUING LOOK INTO THE SOCIO-PATHIC CRIMINAL MIND...	This is the Spanish text edition of \\"Live Flesh\\", an absorbing story that could only have been crafted by Ruth Rendell, the doyenne of the quirky murder mystery and chiller killer thrillers. Here, she takes a look into the socio-pathic mind of the amoral Victor Jenner, released back into the world after serving ten years in prison for shooting and paralyzing a young police sergeant.<br /><br />He tracks down the now wheelchair bound officer, meeting both him and his beautiful, devoted girlfriend. You see, in Victor's skewed world view, it was the officer's fault that he got shot, costing Victor ten of the best years of his life. Victor just wants to set the record straight. Who would have thought that they could all be friends? Therein lies the tale.	2005-08-05
129716:US	49355567	R1RNZW9BP22IHK	8532512712	692119550	Livro de Asta, O	Books	5	0	0	N	N	WHODUNIT?...	This is the Portuguese text edition of \\"Asta's Book\\", a beautifully written, well nuanced novel of mystery and suspense that seamlessly moves between the past and the present. The past is told through the diaries of a Danish immigrant named Asta, who went to live in Edwardian England with her husband, Rasmus, and two young sons at the turn of the century. Settling down in East London in 1905, her loveless marriage and loneliness drove Asta to keep a journal of her innermost thoughts and experiences.<br /><br />Though married to a man who spent a great deal of time away from home on business and with whom she seemed to have little in common, Asta added two more children to her family, daughters, Swanny, her favorite, and Maria, the youngest. Asta's lyrically written journals would chronicle of her life, her struggles as an immigrant, her hopes and dreams, and her adoration of Swanny. They would also tantalizingly hint at a secret that would, ultimately, impact on her daughter, Swanny, later in life.<br /><br />Over seventy years later, those diaries, all forty nine of them, would be discovered and become a publishing sensation and a bestseller. Within its many pages would lie the missing pieces to a turn of the century murder mystery and the leads to the whereabouts of a missing child, as well as tantalizing clues to the puzzling circumstances surrounding Swanny's birth. This information would lie dormant until nearly a century after Asta first put pen to paper, when Asta's granddaughter, Maria's daughter Ann, would review the diaries and discover not only the secret of Swanny's birth, but the identity of a missing child, as well as that of a killer, who nearly a century earlier had butchered two women.	2005-08-05
130595:US	49355567	R1YW63PZH3ND22	8528607208	321542389	O Diário De Sibyl Danforth, Parteira (Em Portuguese do Brasil)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	BEAUTIFULLY WRITTEN AND COMPELLING...A NOVEL TO REMEMBER...	This is the Portuguese text edition of the book, \\"Midwives\\". It is a beautifully crafted novel set in 1981, when a midwife, leading an otherwise uncomplicated and simple life with her husband and daughter in rural Vermont, is thrust into a legal, moral, political, and ethical nightmare. It evolves around a split second decision made in a life and death situation and the aftermath of that decision.<br /><br />An experienced and respected midwife, Sibyl Danforth, attends a woman during a home birth. When she realizes that dangerous complications have set in, she tries in vain to call for help, as a severe ice storm has knocked out the phone lines. An attempt to drive the expectant mother to a hospital only results in the car being wedged into an icy snow bank, as travel conditions are impossible.<br /><br />Trapped in this isolated home with a physically fragile, expectant mother in the throes of a labor that will not bear fruit, Sybil struggles to do the best that she can. Unfortunately, her best is just not good enough, given the complications that had set in, and the expectant mother appears to succumb to the ravages of a laborious childbirth.<br /><br />Under the belief that the expectant mother had died, Sibyl performs an emergency caesarean section in an effort to save the unborn child. She successfully does so, presenting the stricken husband with an infant son. Yet, the next day, her assistant, Anne, who had been present throughout the ordeal, denounces Sibyl to the authorities, claiming that the expectant mother had, in fact, been alive, when Sibyl had commenced the caesarean. Consequently, Sibyl is charged with manslaughter, and the political winds blown by the traditional medical establishment, as well as that of the legal system, threaten to tear asunder all that she holds dear.<br /><br />The story of this event, its aftermath, and the impact it had on many lives, is told through the eyes of Sibyl's daughter who had been a young teenager at the time of the incident, and through the pages of Sibyl's journal. The book takes the reader through a number of moral dilemmas for Sibyl, as well as for her daughter who is forced to come of age during this time of trial and tribulation for her family. Absorbing and often surprising, this sensitively wrought novel is a well-nuanced literary gem from a gifted writer.e incident, and through the pages of Sibyl's journal. The book takes the reader through a number of moral dilemmas for Sibyl, as well as for her daughter who is forced to come of age during this time of trial and tribulation for her family. Absorbing and often surprising, this sensitively wrought novel is a well-nuanced literary gem from a gifted writer.	2005-08-04
130791:US	49355567	RRY4X9039BDLQ	852790201X	298176710	Sete Picos	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A RIP ROLLICKING ADVENTURE STORY...	What happens when two wealthy, middle aged men with commanding, type A personalities get together? Why they decide to climb the seven summits, the highest mountain on each of the seven continents! Their attempts to snare their trophy mountains makes for a rip rollicking good read. What is most remarkable is that one of them actually manages to summit each and every one of the seven mountains in question.<br /><br />This is the Portuguese text edition of \\"Seven Summits\\", which is the account of their adventure and runs the gamut of human experience: humor, pathos, joy, and ultimate success. Their achievement is incredible, considering that they were middle aged, novice climbers. Yet their grit and determination, coupled with a seemingly endless cash flow, allowed them to hob nob with the mountaineering elite and, ultimately, enables one of them to achieve their collective dream.<br /><br />These are two men who, when looking back on their lives, will never find themselves in the position of saying \\"would've, could've, should've\\". They dared to live their dreams. Would that we were all so inclined. In any case, their adventures during their remarkable quest make for some very absorbing reading. Climbing enthusiasts will enjoy this book, as will as those who love a good adventure story.	2005-08-04
130796:US	49355567	R1AHGX87LT84EG	8573261080	611177118	Escalada: a Verdadeira História da Tragédia no Everest, A	Books	3	0	0	N	N	AIN'T NO MOUNTAIN HIGH ENOUGH...	This is the Portuguese text edition of \\"The Climb\\" Tragic Ambitions on Everest\\", the story about the 1996 Everest tragedy told from the perspective of Anatoli Boukreev, who was one of the guides on the ill-fated Mountain Madness expedition. It is written almost as a rebuttal to the perceived criticism by Jon Krakauer (Into Thin Air) of Boukreev's actions on that ill-fated Everest climb.<br /><br />This is a poorly written account that is oftentimes confusing. It has none of the clarity of prose found in Krakauer's \\"Into Thin Air\\". It is, however, an important chronicle from someone who was there on Everest, and who had a pivotal role in the tragic events. Boukreev provides an insider's view of the Mountain Madness expedition itself and of the preparations which go into such a journey. It is packed with many interesting details which will delight Everest junkies.<br /><br />Whether Boukreev's actions on the mountain were irresponsible, in that he did not use supplementary oxygen to summit and immediately returned to camp after reaching the summit, rather than remain with the expedition's clients, or whether he was just following the orders of the expedition leader, Scott Fisher, who himself died on Everest, is an issue which will long be debated in mountaineering circles. There is no doubt, however, that Boukreev did, in fact, single handedly rescue three of the climbers during a raging blizzard; climbers who without his intervention would have died. Given the extreme weather conditions, his foray up the mountain to rescue climbers is nothing less than heroic.<br /><br />Boukreev's is an important voice in the Everest annals, more so now that his voice has been silenced. On Christmas day, 1997, Boukreev died in an avalanche on Annapurna. RIP.	2005-08-04
133460:US	49355567	R2KHVO81AL9IE6	B0007G43PU	266255347	Annapurna	Books	4	1	1	N	N	EXTREME ADVENTURE FOR THE GLORY OF FRANCE...	This book is a romanticized, sanitized account of the 1950 French expedition to the Himalayas by its ostensible leader, Maurice Herzog. It is a book that is reflective of the times in which it was written. Still, it should be a must read for anyone who is interested in high altitude climbing.<br /><br />I first read this book in the early 1960s as a young teenager. I recall being enthralled by it and amazed at the hardships the climbers endured to bring glory to France. In reading it again as an adult, I find myself still enthralled, but more attuned to the fact that it is written in a somewhat self-serving style.<br /><br />The book itself chronicles the attempt by the French to climb an 8,000 meter peak in the Himalayas. They had two alternatives: Dhaulagiri and Annapurna. In those days, the Himalayas were largely uncharted and any topographical maps which existed at the time proved to be largely incorrect. So, the French expedition spent a large portion of their time in reconnaissance. Not only were they there to climb the mountain, they had to find a way to get to it and then map out a route on the unknown terrain to the summit. Ultimately, they chose to climb Annapurna.<br /><br />In reading this book, one must remember that the climb took place without the sophisticated equipment or protective clothing available today. This was before gortex and freeze-dried foods. This climb was made before Nepal or climbing the Himalayas became a major tourist attraction. The conditions for travelers were extremely primitive and difficult under the best of circumstances.<br /><br />When the expedition finally finds a route to Annapurna, the reader almost feels like cheering for them. When they start to climb, one senses that, in comparison to latter day expeditions, they are not so well equipped or savvy about the dangers one can encounter during a high altitude climb or the risks in doing it without supplemental oxygen, as they did. Then one realizes that they were pioneers. They were paving the way for others.<br /><br />The climb to the summit by Maurice Herzog and his partner, Louis Lachenal, is interesting, but it is their harrowing descent and return to civilization that is riveting. The two summiteers begin their descent but run into difficulties. They are fortunate to encounter two of their fellow climbers, Lionel Terray and Gaston Rebuffat, who are contemplating their own summit assault but, instead, choose to aid their comrades in the descent, foregoing their own quest for the summit.<br /><br />The travails which the climbers encounter on the descent would have finished off less hardy souls. Maurice Herzog loses his gloves during the descent and has no spare pair. One of them falls into a crevasse, which, believe it or not, turns out to be a good thing. They are caught in an avalanche. They get lost in a storm. They become frostbitten, and two of them are, ultimately, forced to endure amputations.<br /><br />The medical treatment they received by the expedition doctor is unbelievable and almost primitive. Employing treatments for frostbite that have since fallen onto disrepute (excruciatingly painful arterial injections, for example), the doctor is almost frightening, at times. The reader cannot help but feel pity for the suffering the injured climbers endured: maggot ridden flesh, amputations without anesthesia, and lack of proper medical care for a protracted period of time.<br /><br />The heroics of some of the Sherpas, as on most expeditions, go largely unsung. One must, however, pause to reflect on the fact that as this all took place before airlifts were available, the injured climbers had to be carried. Their exodus back to the frontier took about five weeks. Who carried them down the mountain, over the moraines, on makeshifts bridges over flooded, raging rivers, through dense jungle? Who else but the Sherpas. What thanks did they get? None, as usual.<br /><br />Anyway, when the expedition finally return to France, Maurice Herzog is lauded as a national hero by the French. He becomes the media darling. The other three climbers, as are the rest of those on the expedition, are largely ignored and forgotten. Therein lies the tale. If you want to know how this polarization came about, I highly recommend that you also read \\"True Summit\\" by David Roberts. It gives you the inside scoop about the expedition and how things really were.<br /><br />Notwithstanding its idealization, romanticism, and everything is hunky-dory routine, Herzog's book is still a must read for all climbing enthusiasts or those who simply enjoy a fascinating adventure.urice Herzog is lauded as a national hero by the French. He becomes the media darling. The other three climbers, as are the rest of those on the expedition, are largely ignored and forgotten. Therein lies the tale. If you want to know how this polarization came about, I highly recommend that you also read \\"True Summit\\" by David Roberts. It gives you the inside scoop about the expedition and how things really were.<br /><br />Notwithstanding its idealization, romanticism, and everything is hunky-dory routine, Herzog's book is still a must read for all climbing enthusiasts or those who simply enjoy a fascinating adventure.	2005-08-03
133535:US	49355567	RD4F07SLWSZOW	8520412769	695194825	Alto Risco: uma Paixão Pelo Everest e por Lugares Radicais	Books	5	1	1	N	N	WORLD CLASS CLIMBER...WORLD CLASS READ...	This is the Portuguese edition of  \\"High Exposure: An Enduring Passion for Everest and Unforgiving Places\\", a terrific book that draws you into David Breashears' world. You follow his development from young rock climber to world class mountaineer and filmmaker. You also see his development as a person, all while drawing you into that exclusive club of mountaineers. He makes you feel his passion for the mountains he so loves. You learn how he combined that passion with the art of cinematography, making him an award winning filmmaker.<br /><br />You live through the 1996 tragedy on Everest with him, and feel the compassion that he has for those who died on the mountain under such tragic circumstances. The narrative is always compelling and informative, making the book a hard one to put down. His compassion and sensitivity towards those who did not fare well on the ill-fated 1996 Everest climb is palpable, and for his assistance to those who needed it, even though it put him and his expedition in jeopardy, he is truly an unsung hero. This is, without a doubt, a man who leads by example.<br /><br />David Breashears writes beautifully of his experiences and his book is a must read for all climbing enthusiasts, as well as for those simply interested in the human condition. This is a book that is simply too good to pass up.	2005-08-03
134284:US	49355567	R3ERLL66JSAMI	0345292820	843636085	The Secret House of Death	Books	4	5	6	N	N	THINGS ARE NOT ALWAYS WHAT THEY SEEM...	Ruth Rendell is a brilliant writer of psychological suspense and mysteries. She is noted for her quirky characters and unlikely killers, many of whom seem quite ordinary. What they all seem to have is a dark side that manifests itself in the deadliest ways. This book is no exception.<br /><br />Here, an attractive young woman, Louise North, who lives in a suburban housing complex, is incessantly gossiped about by her neighbors. It seems that that when her handsome husband, Bob, leaves for work, Louise gets a male visitor whom all the neighbors think is her lover. Her neighbors marvel at the brazenness of this hussy living in their well-ordered midst. Imagine the boldness of Louise in having her lover park his car right in front of her home. What if her husband were to come home unexpectedly?<br /><br />When her next door neighbor, divorcee Susan Townsend, is inveigled by a distraught Louise to come over for coffee, Susan only reluctantly agrees, not wanting to be drawn into any sordid disclosures. After all, she does not engage in any of the vile gossip surrounding Louise and her romantic encounters with the mysterious gentleman caller. Still, the next day she goes to Louise's home at the appointed hour, only to find Louise and her ostensible lover locked in a deadly embrace.<br /><br />Naturally, under the circumstances, Susan and Bob find themselves drawing towards each other. Bob seeks out Susan, becoming a regular visitor, and before she knows it, Susan finds that she is more than happy to comfort Bob, and a relationship of sorts develops. Susan, however, gets a feeling as if she were a moth being drawn towards a flame. Something is askew. There is something wrong with the entire picture! She just doesn't know what. Slowly the pieces come together with the help of a stranger named David Chadwick. It may just be that things were not at all what they seemed in that cloistered suburban household inhabited by the Norths.<br /><br />This is an intriguing little mystery, though the characters are not as quirky or edgy as in many of the author's other books. Moreover, the mystery is not that much of a surprise, as the clues are all there for the discerning reader to piece together. Still, there are enough twists and turns to make for an entertaining, fast paced read. It is a book that will be enjoyed by all those who love a well-written mystery.ry, though the characters are not as quirky or edgy as in many of the author's other books. Moreover, the mystery is not that much of a surprise, as the clues are all there for the discerning reader to piece together. Still, there are enough twists and turns to make for an entertaining, fast paced read. It is a book that will be enjoyed by all those who love a well-written mystery.	2005-08-02
134705:US	49355567	RMEM1KKV6QK0K	8433969374	755208037	La Chica Danesa (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A MOST UNUSUAL  MARRIAGE...	This is the Spanish text edition of \\"The Danish Girl\\", a stunning debut novel by someone who is no novice to the publishing industry, as he is the director of The Modern Library, which is a division of Random House. With this book as his entree into the ranks of novelist, Mr. Ebershoff rightly claims a place among the distinguished. This is a most elegantly written novel.<br /><br />His book is loosely based upon the true story of Danish painters, Einar Wegener and Gerda Waud. They met in Copenhagen, while they were both art students, and married a few years later. He painted landscapes, while she would become known for her paintings of a mysterious sloe-eyed beauty. When it eventually became known that the model for the mysterious beauty in Gerda's paintings was, in fact, her cross-dressing husband, they became the scandal of Copenhagen. They left Denmark and sought refuge in Paris, France, where the mystery woman of Gerda's paintings began appearing in the flesh among the denizens of the Parisian demi-monde.<br /><br />There is little doubt that Gerda encouraged her husband in his cross-dressing, as well as in his eventual surgical transformation. In 1930, the couple again turned the world on its head when it became known that Einar Wegener had undergone the world's first known sex re-assignment operation in Germany, and emerged as Lili Elbe. This provoked the King of Denmark himself to annul their marriage. Unfortunately, Lili Elbe's life as a surgically transformed woman ended in 1931 with her death.<br /><br />The author expertly weaves these facts, which were the inspiration for this novel, into a lyrically written, haunting narrative about two people who were bound to each other by an unconditional love that would transcend the conventional. He creates an intriguing, spellbinding story that is a sensitive portrait of a most unusual marriage. The author takes the reader on a journey into the imagined psyche of these two individuals, as their marriage slowly devolves and Lili becomes more and more prominent in their lives. The author leads the reader through Lili's gradual metamorphosis, her poignant self-realization, and the final denouement of the marriage. This is an exquisitely crafted novel by a very gifted writer. Bravo!volves and Lili becomes more and more prominent in their lives. The author leads the reader through Lili's gradual metamorphosis, her poignant self-realization, and the final denouement of the marriage. This is an exquisitely crafted novel by a very gifted writer. Bravo!	2005-08-02
135957:US	49355567	RKKZF0VON26PB	0786192593	580687256	Havana Dreams	Books	5	3	3	N	N	PORTRAIT OF A CUBAN FAMILY...	Hailed by the New York Times as a Notable Book of the Year when it was first released, this is a lyrically written chronicle of Cuba as seen through the eyes of the women of a prominent, yet notorious, Cuban family. It is also an elegant narrative of Cuba's past and its present, its good and its bad. Its genesis is the Cuban-American author's own memories of a pre-Castro Cuba of the nineteen forties and fifties, still steeped in its colonial miasma, redolent of family, traditions, and a certain indolence that was reserved for those who lived the life of patrones. I was drawn to this book, as I am also a Cuban-American, and the author's memories in many ways are mine, as well.<br /><br />I was also intrigued by the intimate portrait of Castro's one time mistress, Naty Revuelta, and the history of her family as set against the backdrop of Cuba. I was interested in how her illicit relationship with a young, fiery revolutionary by the name of Fidel Castro would forever change her life and that of her family. Her family's fortunes and misfortunes parallel those of Cuba itself. Castro's own relationship with his island country would forever change Cuba also, turning it from a colonial paradise for the rich and well-to-do into a crumbling relic from the past, offspring of the mating between heady and romantic revolutionary rhetoric and reality.<br /><br />Engrossing and memorable in its telling, the author paints a poignant, and fully engaging portrait of Naty, her mother, Dona Natica, a Batista era socialite, and Naty's two daughters, Alina and Nina, one of whom is the fruit of Naty's brief intimate relationship with Castro, the other the daughter of her cuckolded husband. Both her daughters are now expatriates, living in the United States. The story of Naty's family is presented in all its heartbreak and is artfully drawn against the grand panorama of what is modern Cuban history. This is a masterful and luminous book that will appeal to those with an interest in Cuba, as well as to those who enjoy a well-written memoir, steeped in historical context. Bravo!s well as to those who enjoy a well-written memoir, steeped in historical context. Bravo!	2005-08-02
137310:US	49355567	R1EE8MI0YIEQJK	8433966669	681400055	El lector (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	COMPELLING...COMPLEX...PROFOUND...	Winner of the Boston Review's Fisk Fiction Prize, this is the Spanish text edition of a thematically complex story written in clear, simple, lucid prose. It is a straightforward telling of an encounter that was to mark fifteen year old Michael Berg for life. The book, written as if it were a memoir, is divided into three parts. The first part of the book deals with that encounter.<br /><br />While on his way home from school one day in post-war Germany, Michael becomes ill. He is aided by a beautiful and buxom, thirty six year old blonde named Hanna Schmitz. When he recovers from his illness, he goes to Frau Schmitz's home to thank her and eventually finds himself seduced by her and engaged in a sexual encounter. They become lovers for a period of time, and a component of their relationship was that Michael would read aloud to her. Michael romanticizes their affair, which is a cornerstone of his young life. They even go away on a trip together. Then, one day, as suddenly as she appeared in his life, she disappears, having inexplicably moved with no forwarding address.<br /><br />The second part of the book deals with Michael's chance encounter with Hanna again. He is now a law student in a seminar that is focused on Germany's Nazi past and the related war trials. The students are young and eager to condemn all who, after the end of the war, had tolerated the Nazis in their midst. Even Michael's parents do not escape his personal condemnation. The seminar is to be an exploration of the collective guilt of the German people, and Michael embraces the opportunity, as do others of his generation, to philosophically condemn the older generation for having sat silently by. Then, he is assigned to take notes on a trial of some camp guards.<br /><br />To his total amazement, one of the accused is Hanna, his Hanna. He stoically remains throughout the trial, realizing as he hears the evidence that she is refusing to divulge the one piece of evidence that could possibly absolve her or, at least, mitigate her complicity in the crimes with which she is charged. It is as if she considers her secret, that of her inability to read and write, more shameful than that of which she is accused. Yet, Michael, too, remains mute on the fact that would throw her legal, if not her moral, guilt into question. Consequently, Hanna finds herself bearing the legal guilt of all those involved in the crime of which she is accused and is condemned accordingly.<br /><br />The third part of the book is really the way Michael deals with having found Hanna, again. He removes himself from further demonstration and discussion on the issue of Germany's Nazi past. It affects his decisions as to his career in the law, eventually choosing a legal career that is isolating. He marries and has a child but finds that he cannot be free of Hanna. He cannot be free of the pain of having loved Hanna. It is as if Hanna has marked him for life. He divorces and never remarries. It is as if he cannot love another, as he loved Hanna. Michael then reaches out to Hanna in prison, indirectly, through the secret they share of what she seems to be most ashamed. Yet, he carefully never personalizes the contact. The end, when it comes, is almost anti-climatic.<br /><br />The relationship between Michael and Hanna really seems to be analogous to the relationship between the generations of Germans in post-war Germany. The affair between Michael and Hanna is representational of the affair that Germany had with the Nazi movement. The eroticism of the book is a necessary component for the collective guilt and shame that the Germans bear for the Holocaust, as well as for the moral divide that seemingly exists between the generations. Yet, the book also shows that such is not always a black and white issue, that there are sometimes gray areas when one discusses one's actions in the context of the forces of good and evil. There is also the issue of legal and moral responsibility. One would think that the two are synonymous, but they are not always so. It also philosophizes on the ability to love another/a nation who/that was complicit in war crimes. This is an insightful, allegorical book that defies categorizing. It is also a book that is a wonderful selection for a reading circle, as it has a wealth of issues that are ripe for discussion. This is simply a superlative book. Bravo!at the two are synonymous, but they are not always so. It also philosophizes on the ability to love another/a nation who/that was complicit in war crimes. This is an insightful, allegorical book that defies categorizing. It is also a book that is a wonderful selection for a reading circle, as it has a wealth of issues that are ripe for discussion. This is simply a superlative book. Bravo!	2005-08-02
138064:US	49355567	R2KI7LE2S2FFYP	0736699511	378345448	The Secret Life of Bees / Unabridged on CDS	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	THE MADONNA AS QUEEN BEE...	This New York Times best selling novel is a beautifully written, coming of age story, set in rural South Carolina in 1964 against the back drop of the civil rights movement. It is the touching story of a young white girl, fourteen year old Lily Owens, whose mother died in a tragic accident when Lily was about four. Lily lives with her father, a harsh man with whom no love is lost, on a peach farm outside Sylvan, South Carolina. Her mother's death stands between them.<br /><br />Neglected by her father, Lily is brought up by Rosaleen, a big-hearted black woman, who loves Lily and whom Lily loves. Yet, hers is a lonely existence, compounded by her unquenched thirst for information about her mother, Deborah. All she has left of her mother are some cloudy memories and a box containing a few mementos, among them a picture of a Black Madonna, inscribed with the words, \\"Tiburon, S.C.\\"<br /><br />When Rosaleen goes into town to register to vote, she feels empowered by the passing of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and has a run-in with the town's three biggest racists, resulting in Rosaleen being taken into custody. Lily arranges for her to break free. Together, they seek sanctuary in Tiburon, South Carolina, where Lily discovers the mystery of the Black Madonna.<br /><br />Taken in by a trio of middle-aged black women who are sisters, as well as beekeepers, Lily is introduced to the secret life of bees and begins to learn some important life lessons. She also learns something about her mother and finds love where she least expected.<br /><br />This is simply a beautifully realized novel, written in a true Southern voice by a wonderful writer with a story to tell. It is little wonder that this compelling book has received so many accolades. It is a stunning fiction debut by the author.	2005-08-01
138142:US	49355567	R30SRX2MGF8X1G	0007140843	858318999	The Girl with a Pearl Earring	Books	5	2	2	N	N	BEAUTIFULLY CRAFTED HISTORICAL FICTION...	This gifted author weaves a mesmerizing tale around Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer's most famous painting, creating an incandescent and luminous work of her own. His painting is a simple, though enigmatic, portrait of a girl with a pearl earring, about which little is known. The author, however, a born storyteller, creates a living, breathing story around it, using a singular, first person narrative. Told in spare, elegant prose, the author leaps into literary renown with this book.<br /><br />The events in the book are viewed through the eyes of Griet, a sixteen year old Dutch girl, whose changed family circumstances force her into taking a position as a maid in the home of a renowned painter, the taciturn Johannes Vermeer. There, the painter resides with his tempestuous wife, Catharina, their brood of unruly children, his commanding and shrewd mother-in-law, Maria Thins, and their loyal housekeeper and cook, Tanneke. The author lovingly details seventeenth century life in the Dutch city of Delft. It is here that Griet's story unfolds.<br /><br />Sensitive and perceptive, Griet is attuned to the under currents in the Vermeer household and, at first, takes care not to draw attention to herself. Still, she, the daughter of a tile painter, is curious about Vermeer's artistry and is drawn to his work and his methods. Vermeer, sensing a kindred artistic spirit in Griet, draws her into his world of paint, color, light, and beauty, creating an intimacy of the spirit between the two.<br /><br />Still, Griet, a girl on the brink of becoming a woman, finds herself confused and breathlessly desiring more than she may have. Her longing for more than a communion of the spirit with Vermeer is palpable. It is, therefore, not surprising that the undercurrents in the Vermeer household should come bubbling to the surface and engulf Griet, much to her consternation.<br /><br />This is a stunning literary work that fully realizes the promise that the author showed in her debut novel, \\"The Virgin Blue\\". She is an author that understands the less is often more, and she makes every word count. Deliberate and spare, her prose is lyrical in its simplicity, weaving a tale that will keep the reader spellbound. This is historical fiction at its finest. Bravo!The Virgin Blue\\". She is an author that understands the less is often more, and she makes every word count. Deliberate and spare, her prose is lyrical in its simplicity, weaving a tale that will keep the reader spellbound. This is historical fiction at its finest. Bravo!	2005-08-01
138468:US	49355567	R2TECSSH18MDVE	0609000268	529493659	Kiss: A Memoir	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A FATHER/DAUGHTER TABOO...	This is an elegantly written memoir, searingly painful, yet, at the same time, strangely compelling, about a young woman who grew up in a dysfunctional household, raised primarily by her grandparents. Her undemonstrative mother, who lived apart from her daughter during her formative years, was emotionally distant, and her father, from whom her mother was divorced, was physically absent.<br /><br />When she was reunited with her father at the age of twenty, her hunger for love and affection was such that an unfatherly kiss led to a consensual and obsessive sexual affair with her biological father, an ordained minister. It was an obsession in which her own mother was seemingly complicit, treating her daughter as if she were a rival for the affection of the man that they both loved. The author's unseemly obsession with her father would torment and haunt her for years.<br /><br />This is a beautifully told story about a parental betrayal so incomprehensible that it will leave the reader aghast. The author infuses the book with a sadness that is heartbreakingly palpable. Her evocative and lyrical prose, spare and intense, elevates this otherwise sordid and tawdry tale, making it a haunting memoir of a past that is best forgotten.	2005-08-01
138658:US	49355567	R2R9E6AQQYA8HZ	0553027476	170383946	King of the Gypsies: The Incredible, But True, Story of a Strange People Who Make the Mafia Seem Like an Open Society	Books	4	18	18	N	N	THE LIVES OF  GYPSIES IN THE UNITED STATES...	This is an intriguing work of non-fiction about Gypsies and the lives that they lead here in the United States. It focuses on one particular branch of Gypsies and the clan warfare that made their clan the ascendant one and its leader, Tene Bimbo, the self-proclaimed King of the Gypsies.<br /><br />The author presents an unvarnished look at Gypsies. He notes their insularity and clannishness, their lives lived on the fringes of mainstream society, and the classic cons by which they survive. Scorning education, nine-to-five jobs, and anyone outside of their cultural milieu, they are a fascinating group of people with their own complex rules and regulations by which they live.<br /><br />The book also relates an ongoing and violent family feud, between Tene Bimbo's son, Carranza, and his grandson, Steve, Carranza's son. It is a feud that was exacerbated when King Tene Bimbo died and left his legacy to Steve, bypassing Carranza. What was more surprising was that Steve had rejected the traditional Gypsy lifestyle and was trying to lead a more mainstream life, urging others to do the same.<br /><br />This is a well written, well researched book that provides a fascinating glimpse of a group of people and a lifestyle about which little is known. Gypsies definitely live lives that are outside the parameters of accepted norms of behavior. Those who have an interest in other cultures, as well as those with an interest in the true crime genre, will certainly enjoy this book, which has six pages of black and white photographs.	2005-08-01
138700:US	49355567	R3ELCFP4JP0CQ3	0007108265	101423143	Falling Angels	Books	4	13	13	N	N	DECEPTIONS AND PERCEPTIONS...	This book covers the period in the lives of two families that stretches from January 1901, the end of the Victorian era, to May 1910, the end of the Edwardian one. The lives of these two families, the Colemans and the Waterhouses, converge and become inextricably woven together when they inadvertently meet at a cemetery while paying their respects to deceased loved ones. Unbeknownst to them, their lives are moving inexorably towards a tragic denouement, one that is to have ramifications for both families.<br /><br />Two of the daughters of these respective families, Lavinia Waterhouse and Maude Coleman, find that they have formed the beginning of a friendship during the brief interlude at the cemetery. The two girls also befriend Simon Field, the son of one of the gravediggers at the cemetery. The friendship of the two girls is cemented when they later discover that they are to be neighbors, as through happenstance the Waterhouse family moves onto a property adjacent to that of the Colemans. Despite differences in social class and personal taste, as the Waterhouses are definitely sentimentally bourgeois and the Colemans have pretensions to more refinement, the families are brought together, however unwillingly, through the friendship between Lavinia and Maude.<br /><br />The mothers of these two girls are unable to form a true friendship, as stolid Gertrude Waterhouse and pretty Kitty Coleman are unable to find much common ground. Gertrude is bound in tradition, while Kitty, dissatisfied with her marriage and her life, is looking to escape tradition and expand the role allotted in society to women. Never the twain shall meet, as these women will never see eye-to-eye, despite the friendship between Lavinia and Maude.<br /><br />This is a well-plotted novel with each character adding his or her perspective to the events that unfold, many of which are of a secretive nature. Even the husbands, Albert Waterhouse and Richard Coleman, have something to say that contributes to the development of the story, as does Richard Coleman's mother, Edith, as do the Coleman's maid, Jenny Whitby, and their cook, Dorothy Baker. Lavinia's younger sister, Ivy May, who plays a small but pivotal role, also has her say, as does Kitty's admirer, John Jackson. There are also a number of twists and turns in the tale.<br /><br />The story is told in the clean, spare prose that fans of the author have come to expect. It is told through first person narratives, and it is almost as if the narratives were taken from the personal diary or journal of each character. Therein lies the rub, as the author is unable to make the voice of each character truly distinguishable from that of the others. The book suffers somewhat from the failure of the author to develop a truly unique voice for each one. This is, however, the only failing of this otherwise absorbing and intriguing story that is suffused with period detail. This is an otherwise excellent book that fans of the author will enjoy, as will those who love historical fiction.to the development of the story, as does Richard Coleman's mother, Edith, as do the Coleman's maid, Jenny Whitby, and their cook, Dorothy Baker. Lavinia's younger sister, Ivy May, who plays a small but pivotal role, also has her say, as does Kitty's admirer, John Jackson. There are also a number of twists and turns in the tale.<br /><br />The story is told in the clean, spare prose that fans of the author have come to expect. It is told through first person narratives, and it is almost as if the narratives were taken from the personal diary or journal of each character. Therein lies the rub, as the author is unable to make the voice of each character truly distinguishable from that of the others. The book suffers somewhat from the failure of the author to develop a truly unique voice for each one. This is, however, the only failing of this otherwise absorbing and intriguing story that is suffused with period detail. This is an otherwise excellent book that fans of the author will enjoy, as will those who love historical fiction.	2005-08-01
139049:US	49355567	R32HV8CWRDIPWQ	0340682116	582723746	The Bone Collector	Books	5	10	10	N	N	NO BONE TO PICK WITH THE BONE COLLECTOR...	This is an especially suspenseful thriller made more so by the personal angst of the main character, Lincoln Rhyme. A quadriplegic, forensic ex-detective for the New York City Police Department, Rhyme is brought out of retirement by the police department to assist them in the apprehension of an apparently psychopathic killer who is loose on the streets of New York.<br /><br />The forays into bits of arcane New York history, as well as the sleuthing done almost entirely through the application of forensics and deductive reasoning, make for a very interesting read. While at times it seems that no one could be as uncannily accurate as Rhyme in deciphering the meaning of the physical evidence, this contrivance does serve to move the plot along. With the story line so engrossing and the crime scenes horrific, as well as ingenious, it is the kind of book that is hard to put down, because you simply cannot wait to see what happens. The surprise ending is the icing on the cake.<br /><br />Assisting Rhyme with his work is Police Officer Sachs who, while not as compelling a character as Rhyme, is essential to the story. It is her character who does the 'heavy lifting' so to speak. Highly intelligent and resourceful, with an innate appreciation of the importance of physical evidence, she inspects and preserves the crime scenes, as well as gathers the physical evidence from which Rhyme ultimately weaves his magic. She also serves as somewhat of a Deus Ex Machina in that she saves the day in more ways than one.<br /><br />Sachs is a wonderful foil for Rhyme in that she runs hot to his cold. She is driven by her desire to help others, as well as by her own personal demons, while he is ever the calm, cool, collected clinician, whose desire to preserve a crime scene may supercede the milk of human kindness latent within his emotionally atrophied soul. The personal connection that Rhyme ultimately develops with Officer Sachs is one that leaves you hoping that they will be teamed up again in yet another novel.again in yet another novel.	2005-08-01
139320:US	49355567	R2TLT2QGCUH2J5	8478887873	310731809	A La Luz Del Amanecer / At the Break of Day (Best-Seller) (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	ENTERTAINING HISTORICAL ADVENTURE EPIC...	This is the Spanish text edition of \\"Dawn on a Distant Shore\\", the second in a series of four published books by this author. Following on the heels of the author's enormously popular debut novel, \\"Into the Wilderness\\" (\\"En Tierras Lejanas\\"), this novel attempts to pick up where the other one left off. While eminently entertaining, it does not reach the heights of the author's beautifully written, debut novel.<br /><br />In this sequel, Elizabeth and Nathaniel Bonner have their idyllic married life in late eighteenth century Upstate New York shattered shortly after Elizabeth gives birth to a set of fraternal twins. Nathaniel, upon learning that his father, Hawkeye, an intrepid backwoodsman with strong ties to the Mohawk nation, has been arrested in Canada, departs to the rescue. When he sets foot over the border, he, too, find himself arrested as a spy and imprisoned in Montreal with his father, victim of a sinister plot.<br /><br />Elizabeth, never one to sit by idly, packs up the twins, and she, too, goes to the rescue. The Bonner men, however, are released through the intervention of others before Elizabeth and her entourage arrive. The hand of fate deals them yet another blow, however, when they all are spirited away by ship to Scotland, where the Catholic Earl of Carryck awaits their arrival. It seems that the Earl has determined that Hawkeye is his long lost first cousin and, consequently, his heir. The Earl means for Hawkeye or Nathaniel to inherit the Earldom, in order to thwart his Protestant adversaries. Unfortunately for the Earl, the entire Bonner family proves to be uncooperative, leading to many adventures, both on land and on the high seas.<br /><br />Part of the charm of the author's debut novel lay in its telling of life in Upstate New York in the late eighteenth century, with all of its historical underpinnings. That is entirely is lost here, as this novel takes a decidedly international turn. Some of the adventures are a little too far-fetched, making the novel seem a bit incongruous at times, though still eminently readable on its own terms. Those who enjoyed the author's debut novel will, undoubtedly, enjoy this sequel, though with an underlying layer of disappointment that the debut novel proved to be just too hard an act to follow. Still, notwithstanding this, I am looking forward to reading the third novel in this series, \\"Lake in the Clouds\\", as will all fans of this author.king the novel seem a bit incongruous at times, though still eminently readable on its own terms. Those who enjoyed the author's debut novel will, undoubtedly, enjoy this sequel, though with an underlying layer of disappointment that the debut novel proved to be just too hard an act to follow. Still, notwithstanding this, I am looking forward to reading the third novel in this series, \\"Lake in the Clouds\\", as will all fans of this author.	2005-07-31
139437:US	49355567	R1VBMB0VKJIVKN	0099447053	440389474	The Visit of the Royal Physician	Books	5	6	6	N	N	SOMETHING IS ROTTEN IN THE STATE OF DENMARK...	Having read \\"Lost Queen\\" by Norah Lofts, which book was a work of historical fiction that covered much of the same story told by this author, there could not be two books more different, though both are riveting. The major difference is in the writing style. The book by Ms. Lofts is superlative and tells an interesting, intriguing, though somewhat superficial story about the love triangle consisting of the mad king of Denmark, Christian VII, his wife, Queen Caroline Mathilde, and the royal physician, Johann Struensee. This author, on the other hand, rips the reader's guts out with its angst filled, staccato telling of the same story. It is a more literary book than that of Ms. Lofts and compelling in its own way, a beautifully written work of historical fiction that will keep the reader riveted to its pages until the very end.<br /><br />It, too, tells the story of Princess Caroline Mathilde of England, sister to King George III. At the age of fifteen she was wed to young King Christian VII, who eventually became known as the mad king of Denmark. Temperamental, high strung, and given to strange outbursts, his predilection for odd behavior was known early on, but despite this the two kingdoms would still see these two wed, as the unification of England and Denmark was more important than individual happiness.<br /><br />King Christian VII was a truly pitiable figure who had survived a childhood fueled by rank cruelty and was easy prey for the sycophants of the Danish court. He developed a peculiar aversion to his wife and, consequently, had conjugal relations with her only once, which propitiously resulted in the birth of a son nine months later. Alone in a foreign country, whose language she was only beginning to learn, and estranged from a King surrounded by sycophants, the young queen gravitated to the one person who treated her as a person in her own right, the King's physician, Johann Struensee.<br /><br />An advocate of the philosophy of Enlightenment that was overtaking Europe, the idealistic Struensee had many ideas that were introduced as reforms in Denmark, through his influence with the King, who by now was easily led, since his madness left a void in leadership that Struensee was all to happy to fill. These reforms were to make many enemies for him, as they upset the established feudal system that still existed in eighteenth century Denmark. As he gained power through his influence, resentment against him grew within those circles that had formerly been close to the King. Unaware of the growing animosity against him and lacking political canniness, Struensee and the Queen became close intimates, bound by shared ideas and interests.<br /><br />Struensee's relationship with the Queen, who was lonely and starved for affection, eventually transgressed the bounds set by propriety. Now lovers in fact, their relationship became grist for the rumor mill. She even gave birth to a daughter who the King acknowledged as his own but who was actually Stuensee's. As gossip and innuendo about their relationship swirled across royal circles in Europe, it ultimately became the focal point for a political coup that saw them both arrested and charged with treason. It was a relationship that was to have great personal and political ramifications for the protagonists, as well as for Denmark. What ultimately happened to each of them was tragic, governed as it was by the initial reluctance of the Danes to give up their feudal system. Even those whom Struensee championed through his reforms, the peasant class, turned against him in the end.<br /><br />This is a richly atmospheric work of historical fiction, filled with political intrigue, historical personages and events, shadowed by darkness and a palpable sorrow apparent in each and every one of its pages. It is as if the individual psyche of each of the protagonists were driving the book, giving it texture, shadings, and glimpses into the psyche of those involved in this high drama. It is an angst filled, almost surreal, rendering of lives that were to come together and leave a mark on the world, making for a story that to this day has the power to captivate the reader. Bravo!s an angst filled, almost surreal, rendering of lives that were to come together and leave a mark on the world, making for a story that to this day has the power to captivate the reader. Bravo!	2005-07-31
139469:US	49355567	R2YKZSJAR52I2U	0736647929	373226516	Pop Goes the Weasel!	Books	4	0	0	N	N	THIS TIME IT'S PERSONAL...	This audiobook starts out as an intriguing thriller. A series of murders is sweeping Southeast Washington, DC. Detective Alex Cross, psychologist and expert profiler, nicknames this remorseless, stealthy, and psychopathic killer \\"The Weasel\\" and is itching to capture him.<br /><br />From the beginning, the reader knows who the killer is. He is none other than urbane, British diplomat, Geoffrey Shafer, who is playing a macabre, role playing game through the internet with some of his former buddies from British intelligence. His role, appropriately enough, is \\"Death\\". The problem is that for Shafer it is no longer a game. It is an obsession.<br /><br />Meanwhile, Detective Alex Cross and his long time main squeeze, Christine, have decided to get married, despite his relentless pursuit of \\"The Weasel\\". Just before they actually do so, however, this diabolical fiend creates a serious hitch in their wedding plans. Cross carries on, as \\"The Weasel\\" plays a cat and mouse game with him. There are a number of surprising moves and countermoves, though it seems that Detective Cross is always on the receiving end.<br /><br />Unfortunately, while the book starts out with a bang, it sort of ends with a whimper. The author simply fails to realize the promise inherent in the book. The resolution of the issue involving his fiancee, Christine, is simply unrealistic. The final ending, however, with regards to Shafer is somewhat intriguing, as it leaves open the possibility of a sequel with this most intriguing killer.<br /><br />This audiobook is made most engrossing by the virtuoso reading by narrator Michael Kramer. He is simply superlative. He takes this book and makes it come alive. While the content of the book rates about a strong three, Michael Kramer's reading rates a high five, which is why I am awarding this audiobook four stars.	2005-07-31
139606:US	49355567	R2KGCI2YC9C2KZ	0552998656	926468706	The Fig Eater	Books	3	6	6	N	N	VERY ATMOSPHERIC...ELEGANTLY WRITTEN...BUT MISSES THE MARK...	This is an intriguing novel about the murder of Dora, a young eighteen year old woman found dead in a park. The contents of her stomach at the time of death contained a half digested fig. She was also a patient of Dr. Freud. You see, her murder happened in Vienna, Austria in 1910.<br /><br />The case is assigned to a nameless inspector, who is trying to investigate this homicide according to certain principles set forth in a book of criminalistics written at the turn of the century. It is an intellectual and cerebral approach to a criminal investigation. It is also an interesting look at a turn of the century police procedural.<br /><br />Meanwhile, Dora's murder has captured the imagination of the inspector's independent, Hungarian born wife, Erzebet, who, unbeknownst to her husband, has begun her own parallel investigation based upon intuition and her own cultural proclivities. She is joined in her endeavor by her friend, a governess who is at loose ends while her employer is away.<br /><br />During the investigation, this elegantly written novel paints an atmospheric, three dimensional portrait of turn of the century Vienna, lush with details about everyday life. It is this part of the book that is the strongest and the most interesting, as it is highly evocative of a place and time gone by. The mystery itself, however, ends up not being much of a mystery, after all. In the final analysis, the promise of this highly ambitious novel remains unfulfilled, as the author simply bit off more than she could chew. The novel whets the appetite but, ultimately, fails to sate it.	2005-07-31
139699:US	49355567	RXCVHD6JWASBS	0749932945	118908960	Envy (Studies in the Early Middle Ages)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	WHEN PAST AND PRESENT COLLIDE...	This book was a most pleasant surprise. It is well-written with just the right infusion of tension to keep the reader turning its pages. While many of its twists and turns are predictable, not all are. There are enough surprises for even the most jaded of readers. It is a wonderful story-within-a-story of friendship, envy, betrayal, greed, revenge, love, and redemption.<br /><br />Maris Matherly-Reed, an editor at prestigious Matherly Press, and scion of the head of this prestigious New York publishing house, Daniel Matherly, receives an unsolicited, anonymous manuscript entitled \\"Envy\\". Pulling it out of the slush pile, this manuscript consists only of a prologue, but one so riveting and beautifully written, that Maris is intrigued enough to want to speak to its unknown but supremely talented author. Leaving her husband, acclaimed author and fellow Matherly Press editor, Noah Reed, to mind the store, Maris decides to follow up on this mysterious, but intriguing, newcomer.<br /><br />Having only an address for an Island off the Georgia coast, she goes there and encounters the crude and rude Parker Evans, the author of this potential literary gem. Marist makes allowances for his behavior, attributing it to what she assumes to be bitterness over his being confined to a wheelchair. As she gets to know Parker and discuss his book with him, more and more is revealed to her about his novel. It is a story of two friends who, in the late nineteen eighties, go on a boat for a celebratory jaunt with a young woman, only to have it end tragically. As Maris begins to find herself attracted to Parker, little does she know that she is about to go on a voyage of personal self-discovery.<br /><br />Meanwhile back in New York, unbeknownst to both his wife and father-in-law, or so he thinks, Noah Reed is plotting and planning a takeover of Matherly Reed by a corporate giant. He is also not behaving as a faithful husband would. When Maris returns to New York, her old world appears to be falling apart. As the veil is torn from her eyes, she no longer sees her husband through rose colored glasses. She begins to wonder to whom she is really married, as Noah reveals more of himself than she cares to know.<br /><br />When Maris reads additional chapters in Parker's book, she gets a strong sense that the book may be a work of non-fiction rather than fiction. She also suspects that there may be a connection between herself and Parker that she had not before realized. As the story of the three young people on the boat develops, it becomes painfully clear that the past and present are on a collision course. The only question is whether Maris will realize it before it is too late, and the past collides with the present.<br /><br />This is an ingeniously plotted novel, and Parker Evans is a very interesting character. The other characters are also fairly well fleshed out for such a plot driven book. Only the character of Noah Reed seems to be a cookie cutter character. As the book, however, is primarily plot driven, it does not unduly detract from such an otherwise engrossing novel of suspense. Moreover, the literary contrivance of a story-within-a-story is very well done. The two parallel stories are both dramatic and interesting. Each serves to propel the book towards its climactic ending. All in all, it is very well done.e falling apart. As the veil is torn from her eyes, she no longer sees her husband through rose colored glasses. She begins to wonder to whom she is really married, as Noah reveals more of himself than she cares to know.<br /><br />When Maris reads additional chapters in Parker's book, she gets a strong sense that the book may be a work of non-fiction rather than fiction. She also suspects that there may be a connection between herself and Parker that she had not before realized. As the story of the three young people on the boat develops, it becomes painfully clear that the past and present are on a collision course. The only question is whether Maris will realize it before it is too late, and the past collides with the present.<br /><br />This is an ingeniously plotted novel, and Parker Evans is a very interesting character. The other characters are also fairly well fleshed out for such a plot driven book. Only the character of Noah Reed seems to be a cookie cutter character. As the book, however, is primarily plot driven, it does not unduly detract from such an otherwise engrossing novel of suspense. Moreover, the literary contrivance of a story-within-a-story is very well done. The two parallel stories are both dramatic and interesting. Each serves to propel the book towards its climactic ending. All in all, it is very well done.	2005-07-31
139792:US	49355567	R32H1Z7W6JSC65	0788729357	178230810	Invasion Of The Body Snatchers, By Jack Finney, Unabridged 5 Audio Cassettes, Narrated By George Wilson	Books	5	0	0	N	N	DOUBLE TROUBLE...	This is a wonderfully inventive story that has spawned three films. Well written, the book tells the tale of a small town through the eyes of its young doctor, Miles Bennell. It seems the town is undergoing a drastic change which is as subtle as it is deadly. It seems that all the townspeople are not what they seem. They look the same. They sound the same. Their memories are intact. Still, they are just not the same.<br /><br />Those who have noticed this, suddenly end up retracting their concerns days later. Something is not right in the town of Mills Valley, and Dr, Bennell knows it. Those large seed pods that are suddenly showing up every where are at the root of it. Their unearthly presence is connected to the profound changes that the people of Mills Valley are undergoing, and Dr. Bennell will stop at nothing to save his beloved town and the world from the invasion of the body snatchers.<br /><br />This is a great story by a wonderfully inventive writer. Jack Finney is a masterful story teller. He expertly weaves a tale that will keep the reader riveted to the pages of this book. It is no wonder that three films based upon this book have been made, \\"The Invasion of the Body Snatchers\\" (1956), The Invasion of the Body Snatchers (1978), and Body Snatchers (1994). All three are worth watching.	2005-07-31
139850:US	49355567	R2697P3HX4UPIE	8478886249	38578755	En tierras lejanas/ In Far Lands (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A SWEEPING SAGA OF LATE 18TH CENTURY UPSTATE NEW YORK...	This novel is the first in a series of four such novels published to date.  It is the Spanish text edition of \\"Into the Wilderness, a riveting, page-turning work of well-written historical fiction. It is a story woven from the gossamer threads of history and infused with the creativity of this author, so as to produce an utterly spellbinding and ambitious, sweeping epic novel. This is a novel that will appeal to those who love rousing historical fiction that carries with it a sense of teeming and timeless adventure.<br /><br />Those readers who have enjoyed the enormously popular \\"Outlander\\" series of novels by author Diana Gabaldon will especially enjoy this book. It should be noted that Diana Gabaldon herself has warmly endorsed this book. Moreover, that its author is herself a fan of Ms. Gabaldon, there can be little doubt, as the two main characters in Ms. Gabaldon's best selling \\"Outlander\\" series make a brief appearance nearly midway through this book. Moreover, the author also incorporates James Fennimore Cooper's character \\"Hawkeye\\" from his book, \\"The Last of the Mohicans\\", adding to the intriguing pastiche of characters, historical, literary, and imaginative, who pepper this book.<br /><br />The book is simple in its premise. An independent and outspoken, intelligent Englishwoman in her twenties, Elizabeth Middleton, leaves England with her brother Julian, to join their father, Judge Alfred Middleton, in the mountains of upstate New York, northwest of Albany. There, she meets Hawkeye's son, handsome backwoods man Nathaniel Bonner, a man who straddles two worlds, that of the white man and that of the native American, and finds herself falling head-over-heels in love with him.<br /><br />Despite her father's attempts to marry her off to a wealthy landowner and the village doctor, Richard Todd, she gravitates towards Nathaniel in defiance of her father, who has his own reasons for wanting to marry her off to Dr. Todd. The good doctor also has his own secret agenda in this matter, a secret that he keeps well hidden until thwarted of his desire. To further complicate matters, Elizabeth sets herself up as a school teacher for all the children of the village in which she lives, black, white, and native American, but finds herself locked in conflict with those who believe that education is only for a select group.<br /><br />What happens to Elizabeth and Nathaniel, as well as to their respective families, is positively gripping, given the adventures into which they are thrust. The author gives the reader a tantalizing glimpse into what life may have been like in upstate New York during that time period, with all its hardships, deprivations, and political and social turmoil, as well as the constantly shifting conflicts and alliances between the white settlers and the Mohawk nation.<br /><br />Descriptively rich and densely plotted, filled with historical personages of the time and well-known historical events, this ambitious and compelling novel will have the reader compulsively turning the pages until the very end. It is simply a wonderfully told and enthralling tale that any discerning lover of historical fiction will enjoy. Bravo!genda in this matter, a secret that he keeps well hidden until thwarted of his desire. To further complicate matters, Elizabeth sets herself up as a school teacher for all the children of the village in which she lives, black, white, and native American, but finds herself locked in conflict with those who believe that education is only for a select group.<br /><br />What happens to Elizabeth and Nathaniel, as well as to their respective families, is positively gripping, given the adventures into which they are thrust. The author gives the reader a tantalizing glimpse into what life may have been like in upstate New York during that time period, with all its hardships, deprivations, and political and social turmoil, as well as the constantly shifting conflicts and alliances between the white settlers and the Mohawk nation.<br /><br />Descriptively rich and densely plotted, filled with historical personages of the time and well-known historical events, this ambitious and compelling novel will have the reader compulsively turning the pages until the very end. It is simply a wonderfully told and enthralling tale that any discerning lover of historical fiction will enjoy. Bravo!	2005-07-31
139859:US	49355567	R26WNIC7Q0CTXO	0965187705	671016982	Nickel and Dimed On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	3	5	8	N	N	ON THE OUTSIDE LOOKING IN...	This is a well-written, interesting, anecdotal book about a well-educated woman's sojourn among the working poor. If only the author had stopped there, the book still would have been a hit. Instead, the author chose to claim it to be representative undercover reportage. Unfortunately, she does not do this with any objectivity, as she views all that she does through liberal, rose colored glasses. Nor does she live as the truly working poor do, as her existence is isolated, cut off from all support systems. While the author received raves from the New York Times Book Review, which acclaimed the author as \\"...the premier reporter of the underside of capitalism\\", the reader should remember that the New York Times is the bastion of East Coast liberalism, and take such praise with a grain of salt.<br /><br />The author comes across as a somewhat vapid individual, whose inherent biases and expectations prevent her from being able to live as a true member of the working poor or interact with them on a truly human level. She objects to having to take drug tests in order to secure a minimum wage position, stating that the costs of such a test outweigh the benefits, without any clear understanding, other than the cost of the drug test itself, of what the potential costs of employing substance abusers would be. She authoritatively uses statistics willy-nilly without grounding them in an appropriate context. The author does, however, establish one very important key point that would certainly tend to keep the working poor running in place, and that has to do with the cost of housing. The book leaves little doubt that there needs to be more affordable housing for the working poor. Yet, the author offers no suggestions as to how that would best be accomplished.<br /><br />Moreover, the author, during her work as a cleaner for a cleaning service company, seems to have a lot of negative things to say about people who have had some demonstrable achievements in life. The author seems to forget that in almost every chapter she does not hesitate to remind the reader that she holds a Ph.D, is middle class, educated, yada, yada, yada. The one positive thing that comes out of her experience as a cleaner is that she points out that some cleaning service companies are doing a pretty filthy job of cleaning people's homes. Thanks, Barbara, for the tip, as I would now never consider using such, preferring to do it myself. Unfortunately, her remarks just might cause some of these companies to lose business, causing them to cut back on personnel, the very working poor of whom the author writes.<br /><br />While the book is interesting at times, the pretentiousness of the author is generally grating and the books ends up being a poor execution of its promise. The author is the quintessential do-gooder, placed in settings of which she has little understanding other than her own pre-conceived, ideologically based ones. It is true that minimum wage will never allow anyone to flourish without some sort of support system in place. Minimum wage is nothing more than what its name states it is. Minimum wage, however, allows the unskilled, minimally experienced worker to get some job experience and a proven track record in terms of the work world. Moreover, some of the problems that the author mentions are just those of bad management by those in positions of power. This is not, however, a situation relegated to those who hold minimum wage jobs. Corporate America is rife with bad management and bosses that treat their employees, even well-compensated ones, badly.to forget that in almost every chapter she does not hesitate to remind the reader that she holds a Ph.D, is middle class, educated, yada, yada, yada. The one positive thing that comes out of her experience as a cleaner is that she points out that some cleaning service companies are doing a pretty filthy job of cleaning people's homes. Thanks, Barbara, for the tip, as I would now never consider using such, preferring to do it myself. Unfortunately, her remarks just might cause some of these companies to lose business, causing them to cut back on personnel, the very working poor of whom the author writes.<br /><br />While the book is interesting at times, the pretentiousness of the author is generally grating and the books ends up being a poor execution of its promise. The author is the quintessential do-gooder, placed in settings of which she has little understanding other than her own pre-conceived, ideologically based ones. It is true that minimum wage will never allow anyone to flourish without some sort of support system in place. Minimum wage is nothing more than what its name states it is. Minimum wage, however, allows the unskilled, minimally experienced worker to get some job experience and a proven track record in terms of the work world. Moreover, some of the problems that the author mentions are just those of bad management by those in positions of power. This is not, however, a situation relegated to those who hold minimum wage jobs. Corporate America is rife with bad management and bosses that treat their employees, even well-compensated ones, badly.	2005-07-31
139901:US	49355567	R38Q5VZVY6V3MU	0006513255	844571296	Of Marriageable Age	Books	5	2	2	N	N	WHEN EAST MEETS WEST...	This is an exquisitely written and superlative, multi-generational novel, delicately woven with gossamer threads of human experience. It is a story of human frailties, passions, and cultural traditions. It is a spellbinding tale of several people who become unforgettable to the reader. It is an epic saga of individuals who are connected across time in a way none of them could have foreseen. A wellspring of cultural differences bear upon their futures and send them along paths none of them could have envisioned. It is, above all, a story of forbidden love that would impact on others for generations to come.<br /><br />This is the story of Savitri, a native of India, a Brahmin beauty, a healer, who fell in love with David, the son of the wealthy English family for whom she and her parents worked. Her love for David would remain constant, despite those in her own family who would seek to destroy it.<br /><br />This is the story of David, the English boy who grew up in British colonial India and never forgot his childhood sweetheart, despite the cultural and racial roadblocks placed in his path by those who did not have the gift to look into the soul of another.<br /><br />This is the story of Nat, the boy who straddled two cultures, Indian and English, whose mysterious ancestry threatened to prevent him from being united with the woman who held the key to his heart and soul.<br /><br />This is the story of Saroj, a Guyanese beauty of Indian descent, who wanted to leave the old ways, the ways of mysterious south east Asia, the ways of India, and embrace those of the west, only to find that her soul mate was one in whom both cultures had made peace.<br /><br />This is, above all else, a spellbinding story of love and passion that runs so deep that time would sustain it forever. Underlying this story are the threads of a mystery that are subtly woven into its fabric. This novel is a panoramic and sweeping saga that will cause the reader to be swept away by its depth, its richness of language, and its vividly drawn characters, and descriptive detail. The author, a very gifted writer and talented storyteller, has written a novel that will keep the reader riveted to its pages until the very last.richness of language, and its vividly drawn characters, and descriptive detail. The author, a very gifted writer and talented storyteller, has written a novel that will keep the reader riveted to its pages until the very last.	2005-07-31
139914:US	49355567	R2BFVIXFF96786	0006514006	512398584	The Other Boleyn Girl by Gregory	Books	5	9	12	N	Y	A FAMILY AFFAIR...	This well-known author of historical fiction has outdone herself with this rich and absorbing tale of the notorious Boleyn sisters, Anne and Mary. The Tudor court, with all its pomp and intrigue, is seen through the eyes of the beautiful Mary Boleyn, who at the age of fourteen arrives at court and becomes lady-in-waiting to Katherine of Aragon, Queen of England and wife to King Henry VIII. Although already married to courtier William Carey, Mary captures the heart of King Henry VIII, whose roving eyes land on this innocent young miss.<br /><br />In the eyes of the grasping and greedy Boleyn family, Mary is but the fatted calf through whom their ambitions, they believe, will become realized. So, they offer her up as a sacrifice to their ruthless ambition. Forced to separate from her husband in order to become the King's mistress, Mary betrays the Queen and becomes mistress to the King, all at the behest of her family. Every step of her affair is choreographed from the wings by her family, with the adept aid of her sly and clever sister, Anne, in the role of chief manipulator.<br /><br />Mary struggles with her own code of honor and personal morality, which is often in conflict with what is mandated by her family. Still, despite her best intentions, Mary disappoints them, as her nature is not the kind that takes well to intrigue and manipulation. She the temerity to have sincere feelings of affection for the King, as well as for the Queen. After bearing the King two children, however, she is set aside by a formidable rival, her own sister, Anne, in whom the Boleyn family now place their hopes and ambitions.<br /><br />This is, first and foremost, the story of Mary Boleyn, a woman who has generally been reduced to a footnote in history. It is notable, however, that she was the only Boleyn sibling to survive the purges of the Tudor court and who, ultimately, married for love in an age when this was not the norm among those of her class. It is also the story of Anne Boleyn, her rise and fall, as seen through the eyes of her sister, Mary, with whom Anne was to have a lifelong rivalry.<br /><br />To a lesser degree, it is also the story of their brother, George, a more remote, though no less interesting, personage. His interjection into the story is necessary, as the author attempts to address the issue of incest that arose at the trial of George and Anne Boleyn. She gives quite an interesting perspective on the issue, weaving it, part and parcel, into the story in an effort to explain his downfall, as well his betrayal by his own wife.<br /><br />Told against the magnificent backdrop of the Tudor Court in all its splendor and majesty, the author weaves a complex tale of greed, ambition, sex, and political machination, as well as unparalleled intrigue, in sixteenth century England. Filled with well-fleshed characters taken right out of the annals of history, the story is one that is sure to delight all those with a love for well-written historical fiction. In particular, fans of beloved author, Jean Plaidy, will enjoy this book.yn, her rise and fall, as seen through the eyes of her sister, Mary, with whom Anne was to have a lifelong rivalry.<br /><br />To a lesser degree, it is also the story of their brother, George, a more remote, though no less interesting, personage. His interjection into the story is necessary, as the author attempts to address the issue of incest that arose at the trial of George and Anne Boleyn. She gives quite an interesting perspective on the issue, weaving it, part and parcel, into the story in an effort to explain his downfall, as well his betrayal by his own wife.<br /><br />Told against the magnificent backdrop of the Tudor Court in all its splendor and majesty, the author weaves a complex tale of greed, ambition, sex, and political machination, as well as unparalleled intrigue, in sixteenth century England. Filled with well-fleshed characters taken right out of the annals of history, the story is one that is sure to delight all those with a love for well-written historical fiction. In particular, fans of beloved author, Jean Plaidy, will enjoy this book.	2005-07-31
139997:US	49355567	R331S8XF1DC732	0140120831	835505349	Perfume: The Story of a Murderer	Books	5	23	25	N	N	A DAZZLING AND COMPELLING NOVEL...	This is a novel so beautifully written that it transcends into literature. Ingenious in its conception and carefully crafted, the author has created a unique and dazzling work of fiction. Divided into three parts, the book tells the story of a most unusual life, that of Jean-Baptiste Grenouille.<br /><br />The first part of the book establishes that he was born to a woman who was hung from a gibbet for having left him to die. It turns out that Jean-Baptiste is an unusual baby. He gives people the willies, because, unlike most babies, Jean-Baptiste has no scent.<br /><br />Over time, Jean-Baptiste develops into a boy with a secret gift. His olfactory sense is developed to a degree unheard of in humans. He delights in parsing the odors around him. Ugly, friendless, and a loner, he eventually ventures into the city of Paris, a malodorous and pungent cornucopia of smells. Believe me, there is plenty to sniff out in eighteenth century Paris! Jean-Baptiste savors each whiff, and the book conveys these olfactory delights with meticulous, descriptive precision.<br /><br />His bleak existence is transformed, however, when he one day captures a heady scent of such exquisite beauty that he finds himself obsessed with it. Determined to have that scent at all costs, he eventually sniffs it out. It turns out to be the scent of a young virgin on the cusp of flowering into a woman. It is a scent that he must possess. What he does to do so will surely chill the reader.<br /><br />Jean-Baptiste eventually maneuvers to get himself apprenticed to a perfumer, so that he can have the opportunity to learn the trade and create scents. He leads a bleak existence, subsisting as little more than a slave to the perfumer for whom he works.<br /><br />The second part of the book begins when Jean-Baptiste leave his employer and goes on a personal pilgrimage, leading an austere existence away from civilization for many years. There, he withdraws into himself even further, living a totally self-sustaining, hermitic existence. He ultimately realizes what other have sensed about him. Jean-Baptiste has no personal scent. He simply does not smell.<br /><br />With this knowledge, he returns to civilization where, having lived as practically an animal for many years, he creates a fictitious and adventurous scenario to account for his filthy and disgusting appearance. Subsequently, he is taken under the wing of some local nobility and feted and pampered. Realizing the importance of scent, he creates a personal scent for himself. He now realizes that he who has the power over scent can rule supreme. He intends to do so.<br /><br />The third part of the book has Jean-Baptiste migrating to a town that is the hub for the scent trade. Perfumes, oils, and soaps are the stock in trade for this town and, as such, beckon brightly to Jean-Baptiste. Once there, he again smells a scent so delectable that he longs to possess it. He knows that scent for what it is and now knows that it is the scent, and not the personal charms of its bearer, that captures the attention and devotion of others. Jean Baptiste wants to harness that scent at all costs. He desperately desires the power to make others love him. He wants to be supreme.<br /><br />It is his desperate desire to harness and possess that celestial scent that causes Jean-Baptiste, a socio-path with little empathy for others, to prey upon the maidens of the town in order to obtain that which he needs. It is his obsession that lays at the heart of the vortex that arises in the town, as murder after murder occurs. Yet, no one suspects him. What ultimately happens leads to an almost unbelievable climax, when Jean-Baptiste finds himself consumed by the passion he has managed to arouse in others through scent.<br /><br />This is a heady, quirky, and compelling debut novel, like nothing I have ever before read. Complex and lyrical in its telling, it is a novel that stays with the reader long after the last page is turned. Bravo!taining, hermitic existence. He ultimately realizes what other have sensed about him. Jean-Baptiste has no personal scent. He simply does not smell.<br /><br />With this knowledge, he returns to civilization where, having lived as practically an animal for many years, he creates a fictitious and adventurous scenario to account for his filthy and disgusting appearance. Subsequently, he is taken under the wing of some local nobility and feted and pampered. Realizing the importance of scent, he creates a personal scent for himself. He now realizes that he who has the power over scent can rule supreme. He intends to do so.<br /><br />The third part of the book has Jean-Baptiste migrating to a town that is the hub for the scent trade. Perfumes, oils, and soaps are the stock in trade for this town and, as such, beckon brightly to Jean-Baptiste. Once there, he again smells a scent so delectable that he longs to possess it. He knows that scent for what it is and now knows that it is the scent, and not the personal charms of its bearer, that captures the attention and devotion of others. Jean Baptiste wants to harness that scent at all costs. He desperately desires the power to make others love him. He wants to be supreme.<br /><br />It is his desperate desire to harness and possess that celestial scent that causes Jean-Baptiste, a socio-path with little empathy for others, to prey upon the maidens of the town in order to obtain that which he needs. It is his obsession that lays at the heart of the vortex that arises in the town, as murder after murder occurs. Yet, no one suspects him. What ultimately happens leads to an almost unbelievable climax, when Jean-Baptiste finds himself consumed by the passion he has managed to arouse in others through scent.<br /><br />This is a heady, quirky, and compelling debut novel, like nothing I have ever before read. Complex and lyrical in its telling, it is a novel that stays with the reader long after the last page is turned. Bravo!page is turned. Bravo! <br /> <br />	2005-07-31
140030:US	49355567	R321OUAJGYVSJ2	1889647098	702530013	Women Over 50 Are Better Because	Books	4	0	1	N	N	FOR THOSE WITH A SENSE OF HUMOR...	This is a cute collection of cartoons, designed to strike at the funny bone of women over fifty and anyone else who finds humor in the human condition. Buy copies of this little book and give it to your female friends who are over fifty. They will enjoy seeing themselves humorously reflected on the pages of this little book. Will they laugh? Sure...because women over fifty are better.	2005-07-31
140127:US	49355567	R2CLSSADDQ0THE	0788739751	636904914	Black Notice (The Kay Scarpetta series)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	NOT JUST ANOTHER WEREWOLF STORY...	This is an intriguing and well crafted Kay Scarpetta mystery, which begins promisingly enough with the discovery of an overly ripe, dead body. Found stashed in a locked and sealed freight container aboard a cargo ship from Belgium that has landed in Dr. Kay Scarpetta's jurisdiction of Richmond, Virginia, the male, mystery corpse is covered with loose hairs. This intriguing beginning sends Dr. Kay Scarpetta, Richmond, Virginia's Chief Medical Examiner, on a hunt for information that turns international in scope. She discovers that this is just one of a number of murders to contain those tell tale hairs.<br /><br />The murders, themselves, are graphic and the forensic details, as always, are fascinating, and Dr. Scarpetta's critical analysis of the pathology issues are well thought out and highly informative, as she sifts through the forensic evidence in order to profile the killer. Her assessment of the peculiar affliction of this serial killer is intriguing, providing scientific insight into creatures who were called werewolves, but who may have only been persons with a rare and unusual genetic condition, causing them to be especially hirsute, among other anomalies.<br /><br />Moreover, there are a number of subplots afoot. Dr. Scarpetta, who is recovering from the death of her lover, Wesley Benton, faces a number of problems closer to home. It seems that she has been the victim of identity theft, with her internet screen name being used to set up a phony chat room, and personally destructive emails being sent falsely under her screen name.<br /><br />To add fuel to the fire, a new Deputy Chief in the Richmond police Department, Diane Bray, and has managed to demote Dr. Scarpetta's long time friend, Homicide Detective Pete Marino. Having her own secret agenda, Bray has turned her sights onto Dr. Scarpetta, desiring to get jurisdiction over the Medical Examiner's Office. Perfidy also exist among Dr. Scarpetta's trusted staff, and her niece Lucy, who is still not operating with a full deck, is on a dangerous, undercover police mission with her lover in Miami, adding yet another worry to Dr. Scarpetta's already full plate.<br /><br />It is the camaraderie between Pete Marino and Dr. Kay Scarpetta, however, that holds this particular book together. Their repartee and dialogue is wonderful, giving evidence of their comfortable and close relationship, without saying so in so many words. They carp as if they were an old married couple. Lucy, Dr. Scarpetta's niece, however, is still a loose cannon, and it is unbelievable that any police agency would allow her to run around with a gun in her hand, given her record for shooting it off. Mercifully, this annoying character has a smaller role than usual in this novel, and the reader may only hope that she will either be written out altogether or get an attitude adjustment.<br /><br />The ending of the book, however, is a little too pat. Dr. Scarpetta's actions in the book's grand finale are not really believable for such an astute and normally cautious woman. Given what she already knows about the killer, her actions in the end bespeak more of the actions of an unknowing civilian. Still, this book does not fail to entertain and is sure to provide reading pleasure for many Kay Scarpetta devotees.ating with a full deck, is on a dangerous, undercover police mission with her lover in Miami, adding yet another worry to Dr. Scarpetta's already full plate.<br /><br />It is the camaraderie between Pete Marino and Dr. Kay Scarpetta, however, that holds this particular book together. Their repartee and dialogue is wonderful, giving evidence of their comfortable and close relationship, without saying so in so many words. They carp as if they were an old married couple. Lucy, Dr. Scarpetta's niece, however, is still a loose cannon, and it is unbelievable that any police agency would allow her to run around with a gun in her hand, given her record for shooting it off. Mercifully, this annoying character has a smaller role than usual in this novel, and the reader may only hope that she will either be written out altogether or get an attitude adjustment.<br /><br />The ending of the book, however, is a little too pat. Dr. Scarpetta's actions in the book's grand finale are not really believable for such an astute and normally cautious woman. Given what she already knows about the killer, her actions in the end bespeak more of the actions of an unknowing civilian. Still, this book does not fail to entertain and is sure to provide reading pleasure for many Kay Scarpetta devotees.	2005-07-31
140236:US	49355567	R2CBR1G0KGB2GA	8532512127	370073741	Quando Sopra o Vento	Books	2	0	0	N	N	BIRDS OF A FEATHER...	This is the Portuguese text edition of \\"When the Wind Blows\\", a fairly tepid book that revolves around secret, government sanctioned experiments on humans, dealing with some of the ethical themes of today: cloning, genetic engineering of humans, and cross species hybrids.<br /><br />The plot is simple. Two of the test subjects have escaped the confines of the closely guarded, secret laboratory. Matt and Max, a brother and sister team that can fly, are being hunted down. Yet, They need only spread their wings, and, as did Icarus, they can soar up high into the wild blue yonder. The only problem is that hunters must bring them back to the secret lab, before anyone sees them. To further complicate things, Matt and Max do not wish to be caught, because they know that bad things happen in the lab and that people, who are deemed dispensable and no longer necessary, are \\"put to sleep\\" and never seen again.<br /><br />In the outside word, the children separate. Eleven year old Max has the good fortune to run into Frannie O'Neill, a compassionate veterinarian who immediately realizes that there is something extraordinary about Max, beyond the fact that she has real, honest-to-goodness wings and can fly. Frannie is aware that Max is more than the sum of her parts. Together with the help Kit Harrison, an FBI agent, they will do everything they can to help Max evade her pursuers. In the process, they themselves become earmarked for death.<br /><br />While the premise of this novel is intriguing, it is done in by the torpor of the prose and by characters that are one dimensional.	2005-07-31
140244:US	49355567	RMMCMRPFTWIFX	0143035797	123782968	La vida secreta de las abejas (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	THE POWER OF THE SISTERHOOD OF WOMEN...	This is the Spanish text edition of the  New York Times best selling novel, \\"The Secret Life of Bees\\". It is a beautifully written, coming of age story, set in rural South Carolina in 1964 against the back drop of the civil rights movement. It is the touching story of a young white girl, fourteen year old Lily Owens, whose mother died in a tragic accident when Lily was about four. Lily lives with her father, a harsh man with whom no love is lost, on a peach farm outside Sylvan, South Carolina. Her mother's death stands between them.<br /><br />Neglected by her father, Lily is brought up by Rosaleen, a big-hearted black woman, who loves Lily and whom Lily loves. Yet, hers is a lonely existence, compounded by her unquenched thirst for information about her mother, Deborah. All she has left of her mother are some cloudy memories and a box containing a few mementos, among them a picture of a Black Madonna, inscribed with the words, \\"Tiburon, S.C.\\"<br /><br />When Rosaleen goes into town to register to vote, she feels empowered by the passing of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and has a run-in with the town's three biggest racists, resulting in Rosaleen being taken into custody. Lily arranges for her to break free. Together, they seek sanctuary in Tiburon, South Carolina, where Lily discovers the mystery of the Black Madonna.<br /><br />Taken in by a trio of middle-aged black women who are sisters, as well as beekeepers, Lily is introduced to the secret life of bees and begins to learn some important life lessons. She also learns something about her mother and finds love where she least expected.<br /><br />This is simply a beautifully realized novel, written in a true Southern voice by a wonderful writer with a story to tell. It is little wonder that this compelling book has received so many accolades. It is a stunning fiction debut by the author.	2005-07-31
140341:US	49355567	R22EADIKY62S4M	0515040398	167280048	Bless This House	Books	5	1	1	N	N	THE LIVES LIVED IN A HOUSE...	This is a book to be savored by those who enjoy historical fiction. Beautifully written by a master storyteller, it centers around a beautiful house, Merravay, which was built during the Elizabethan era, and the lives of those who lived in it throughout the passing centuries.<br /><br />There is a rich melange of personalities, conflicts, loves, and everyday twists that meld into the foundation of this house in which its inhabitants have seen so much personal and historical strife. Filled with memorable characters throughout the ages, this thoroughly engrossing book will keep the reader entertained until the very last page is turned.	2005-07-31
140384:US	49355567	R207SH6ZOX4NQ3	0099808404	761691187	Going Wrong	Books	5	24	27	N	N	A TWISTED TALE OF OBSESSIVE LOVE...	British author, Ruth Rendell, is, undoubtedly, the doyenne of psychological suspense, painting subtle portraits of offbeat, quirky characters that are just a tad off the beaten path. Delving into their psyches, she draws the reader into the slightly skewed world that they inhabit. Their world then becomes that of the reader, as the author weaves a tapestry of a world that is just a bit awry, deftly letting the reader know that something is wrong, so very wrong.<br /><br />The author does no less in this well-written novel, as she leads the reader into the mind and world of Guy Curran, a handsome, young man from the slums who has led a hard scrabble life, elevating himself from the bowels of poverty by dint of his own hard work and acquiring great wealth in the process. Unfortunately for him, that hard work included some less than reputable dealings in the drug trade, which provided the capital for his now legitimate businesses.<br /><br />For years, Guy has been obsessively in love with Leonora Chisholm, an upper class miss who, after years of being his reluctant childhood sweetheart, has rejected him and all the trappings of wealth and comfort he has to offer her. She prefers to live in genteel poverty with her friends, while acquiring a new boyfriend whom her family and friends like. Guy is convinced some of his past, shady dealings have come to the attention of someone in Leonora's family or inner circle. He believes that that individual has persuaded Leonora to turn away from him.<br /><br />Now, who would go and do such a thing? Read this well-written book and join Guy in the process of eliminating the likely suspect in this twisted tale of obsessive love.	2005-07-31
140403:US	49355567	R18AXCP7PMJTZV	0860517004	437041726	The Passionate Life of Bette Davis	Books	5	4	4	N	N	MORE THAN A BIT OF BETTE...	As a big Bette Davis fan, I looked forward to reading this biography of her, particularly as it had been written by an individual who had also been a film critic. I was not disappointed. This is a very well researched, extensive book of the life of Bette Davis, her relationships, and her body of work. The author takes the reader through her early beginnings in Lowell, Massachusetts to her last breath in Paris, France. It is evident that for the author this was a labor of love.<br /><br />Given the author's own connection to the film world, as well as the fact that he, himself, is a big fan of Ms. Davis, much of his writing is peppered with interesting insider information. It is the culmination of an amazing forty three years of research. Being a member of the cognoscenti, the author provides a great deal of colorful background that fleshes out her life, grounding it in the context of the time in which she lived and developed as the great star that she eventually became. He does this through extensive interviews of the people who had played a role in her life, news clippings, film reviews, and his own interviews of Ms. Davis.<br /><br />The author takes the reader through her relationships, many of which were rocky, with her family, her fellow actors, directors, writers, producers, and studio heads. The author discusses her marriages, of which there were a four, and her lovers. It is, however, when discussing her films, her highs and her lows, that the author's knowledge really comes to the forefront. Having seen most of the films of which he writes, I especially enjoyed and was totally fascinated by all the background information, skullduggery, and behind the scenes hoopla that went on in the making of these films. I will definitely go back and see some of these films again, as they are now couched in a new light.<br /><br />This fascinating book is, without a doubt, the definitive biography of Bette Davis, warts and all. The author succeeds in painting a three dimensional portrait of a feisty, determined woman, who brooked no nonsense when it came to her craft, but who also had a softer side, wanting to love and be loved. This is a woman who asserted herself and refused to countenance anyone who would try to make her be something that she wasn't. While this may not have made her very popular with those who lived or worked with her, this quality shone through in her films, making her one of the most popular and enduring superstars of all time. Bette Davis eventually became more than the sum of her parts. She became a legend.nsional portrait of a feisty, determined woman, who brooked no nonsense when it came to her craft, but who also had a softer side, wanting to love and be loved. This is a woman who asserted herself and refused to countenance anyone who would try to make her be something that she wasn't. While this may not have made her very popular with those who lived or worked with her, this quality shone through in her films, making her one of the most popular and enduring superstars of all time. Bette Davis eventually became more than the sum of her parts. She became a legend.	2005-07-31
140423:US	49355567	R4VYM9U2AQ068	0553137522	35030633	Shadow of the Moon	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	WHEN WORLDS COLLIDE...	This is a superlative work of beautifully written, well-researched historical fiction by the author of the best selling, sweeping epic, \\"The Far Pavilions\\". The author was born in India, where she lived most of her life. Her love of that country is evident in her loving, descriptive passages of the land of her birth. Her assessment of Anglo-Indian relations during the time of the British Raj is infused in the characters of her spellbinding novel. With exotic, mid-eighteenth century India as a backdrop for most of this engrossing story, the reader is swept away by its beautifully descriptive narrative. It is in India that the fate of a beautiful, young, Anglo-Spaniard heiress with the improbable name of Winter Ballasteros and that of Captain Alex Randall, a commissioned officer with the East India Company, are irrevocably intertwined.<br /><br />Born in India and orphaned at an early age, Winter is brought up in England but is always longing for the land of her birth. The opportunity to return home to India presents itself when she is betrothed at a tender age to the debauched Conway Barton, the grasping Commissioner of Lunjore, who is many years her senior. Captain Randall, who is sent by the Commissioner to escort his betrothed to India, is loathe to do so, knowing the Commissioner to be no fit husband for a seventeen year old girl, Moreover, Captain Randall is keenly sensitive to the potentially dangerous feelings of unrest that seem to be sweeping India, as its native population begins to chafe under the insensitive rule of its colonial masters.<br /><br />Once in India and against a backdrop of native unrest, Winter and Captain Randall slowly begin to develop a relationship. When the Sepoy Rebellion of 1957 occurs, Winter and Captain Randall are thrown together. They discover that they must struggle to survive the madness and bloodlust that is all around them, as they witness atrocities beyond comprehension. The author gives a vivid re-creation of the Siege of Delhi, as well as a plaintive telling of the massacre of women and children at Cawnpore, a horrific bloodbath from which even the natives themselves shrank. It is against this tumultuous, historical backdrop that the personal drama of Winter and Captain Randall is juxtaposed.<br /><br />With a wonderful cast of Indian and Anglo characters, the author gives the reader a sense of the vastness of India with its many different religions and castes. She successfully depicts the colonialist attitudes that would serve to unite Indians whose paths might not ordinarily cross and galvanize them to take violent action in an attempt to break the oppressive, colonial yoke. The Sepoy Rebellion of 1857 would be a lesson that England would long remember.<br /><br />This is a riveting novel that those who love well-written historical fiction will enjoy, as will those who simply love a well told tale. Bravo!elhi, as well as a plaintive telling of the massacre of women and children at Cawnpore, a horrific bloodbath from which even the natives themselves shrank. It is against this tumultuous, historical backdrop that the personal drama of Winter and Captain Randall is juxtaposed.<br /><br />With a wonderful cast of Indian and Anglo characters, the author gives the reader a sense of the vastness of India with its many different religions and castes. She successfully depicts the colonialist attitudes that would serve to unite Indians whose paths might not ordinarily cross and galvanize them to take violent action in an attempt to break the oppressive, colonial yoke. The Sepoy Rebellion of 1857 would be a lesson that England would long remember.<br /><br />This is a riveting novel that those who love well-written historical fiction will enjoy, as will those who simply love a well told tale. Bravo!	2005-07-31
140445:US	49355567	R2EFXK78289Q0X	0747266816	598224178	One Door Away from Heaven	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A MUMBO JUMBO GUMBO...	I enjoyed this book and wavered on the rating. I had a difficult time deciding whether to rate it a three or a four. I finally decided on three because, while it is an enjoyable read, it is not one of his best. Those who read and enjoyed the author's last book, \\"From the Corner Of His Eye\\", as I did, will, undoubtedly, enjoy this one, though it is not as good.<br /><br />Here, this genre bending book, written with wry humor, has a series of subplots and colorful characters with improbable names that propel the story forward. Twenty-eight year old Michelina Birdsong is a young and beautiful woman with a troubled past. Living in a trailer park with her eccentric aunt, Geneva, she lacks focus and is overly fond of lemon flavored vodka. It is as if she has lost the will to live.<br /><br />When she gets new neighbors in the mobile home next door, one of whom is the precocious and physically deformed nine year, Leilani Klonk, her heart is touched most unexpectedly by the pathos of her young life. As Leilani is living with a drug crazed mother and step-father, a sociopathic \\"doctor\\" who may be a serial killer, Mickey finds herself wanting to make Leilani's life better and in doing so, redeeming her own. When Leilani and her family precipitously abandon their mobile home one night, Michelina, fearing the worst for Leilani, springs into action and finds herself in hot pursuit of this family, hoping to avert a tragedy.<br /><br />Meanwhile, a young motherless boy, who calls himself Curtis, and his dog, a Labrador with whom he has a most unique relationship, are racing away from their own potential Armageddon. This boy, too, is precocious and quite gifted, but seems to lack a true understanding of the ways and customs of those whom he meets. He is just a beat off. Still, while there is something odd about him, it is clear that, though he seems to have unusual gifts, he has a pure spirit and is a good boy running from a great evil. His pursuers, seemingly invincible and other worldly, will stop at nothing to get a hold of Curtis and keep him from his mission. The journey that Curtis makes is quite astonishing.<br /><br />At some point the paths of these main characters improbably cross and all is made somewhat, though not totally, clear. The book, which is an imaginative blend of suspense, science fiction, and bioethical philosophy, has somewhat religious or quasi-spiritual overtones, as it boils down to the quintessential battle between good and evil. In this book, Koontz continues on the path he forged with his previous book, \\"From the Corner of His Eye\\". To where that path will ultimately lead, however, remains to be seen.worldly, will stop at nothing to get a hold of Curtis and keep him from his mission. The journey that Curtis makes is quite astonishing.<br /><br />At some point the paths of these main characters improbably cross and all is made somewhat, though not totally, clear. The book, which is an imaginative blend of suspense, science fiction, and bioethical philosophy, has somewhat religious or quasi-spiritual overtones, as it boils down to the quintessential battle between good and evil. In this book, Koontz continues on the path he forged with his previous book, \\"From the Corner of His Eye\\". To where that path will ultimately lead, however, remains to be seen.	2005-07-30
140559:US	49355567	R2ZMN3QGQWDTKN	0739407279	763023042	The Shadowy Horses	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	AN ATMOSPHERIC GHOST STORY...	Beautifully written, the book immediately grips the reader in its thrall. The plot is well developed, as are the main characters. There are also enough twists and turns to satisfy most. If you enjoyed Susanna Kearsley's bestselling novel, \\"Mariana\\", you will also enjoy this one.<br /><br />The plot revolves around an archaeological site in Scotland where our heroine, archaeologist Verity Grey, is working. Toss in a former lover, an eight year old blessed with second sight, a masterful, very attractive Scotsman, a family secret, some Scottish mists, and a ghostly sentinel from the Ninth Roman Legion, and you have a recipe for a gothic style page turner, if ever there were one.	2005-07-30
140564:US	49355567	R2W6R648TPXNLI	0380009692	217209334	The Deadly Messiah	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A PLAGUE LIKE NO OTHER...	This is a fast paced, page turning thriller. A wholly plot driven book, there is little character development. So, if one is looking for a literary feast, one should probably look elsewhere. If one is interested in a book with an interesting plot and a somewhat surprising ending, this book fits the bill.<br /><br />In the small town of Bensonville, the unthinkable happens. Everyone suddenly seems to be stricken with illnesses that turn inexplicably fatal. Within hours the town is decimated, as if it were a plague ridden, medieval town. No one knows why. The few survivors are stunned. One of these is Jess Barrett, Rhodes Scholar and Ph.D. He teams up with presidential aide, Micah Maruyama, along with a team of renowned medical doctors to discover the cause of this seemingly inexplicable phenomenon.<br /><br />Enter beautiful and intelligent Vera Norman, a highly respected astrologer, who assists them in unraveling the mystery surrounding this epidemic. It turns out not to be a medical problem, but rather, something far more sinister and intriguing.<br /><br />This book gets off to a running start and simply does not let up. It will appeal to those who enjoy Michael Crichton and Robin Cook novels. as well as to those who simply enjoy a good story.	2005-07-30
140661:US	49355567	R30MTZ44BQ0JSG	1053031890	965438626	A Gift of Prophecy: The Phenomenal Jeane Dixon	Books	5	8	8	N	N	SYLVIA BROWNE HAS NOTHING ON JEANE DIXON...	This book tells the story of Jeane Dixon, a devout Catholic, who was probably one of the greatest clairvoyants the world has ever known. She lived most of her adult live in Washington, D.C., to where she moved with her husband at the start of World Was II. There, she became the toast of the town. She made so many accurate predictions that it was mind boggling. Yet, she never asked for money for a reading, as she considered it an act from God. On the other hand, she never had to consider that as an option, as she lived a privileged life, having grown up in a wealthy household in Wisconsin and, later, marrying a very well to do business man.<br /><br />The numbers and accuracy of her predictions are startling. Moreover, many of them were made years in advance of their occurrence. The one that gained the most notoriety was the prediction of President Kennedy's assassination, which is fully discussed in the book. The book also discusses Mrs. Dixon's thoughts on the issue of conspiracy behind the assassination. Given her track record, it is quite an interesting discourse.<br /><br />The author of the book, an investigative reporter and friend of Mrs. Dixon, gives an excellent account of her predictions and, often, the context out of which they arose. She describes how the predictions came about. While many of the predictions involved well known individuals, Mrs. Dixon also made many predictions for people with whom she came into contact in her everyday life. All in all, this is a memorable book about a most remarkable woman who, indeed, had the gift of prophecy.	2005-07-30
140706:US	49355567	RXR1T7ODEAO15	0060778660	399926886	Alive	Books	5	43	46	N	N	I GET BY WITH A LITTLE HELP FROM MY FRIENDS...	Time has not diminished the drama of the tale of the Uruguayan rugby team whose plane crashed in the Andes Mountains. Of the forty five people on the plane at the time of the crash, sixteen came down from the mountain about seventy days later with a saga of survival not easily forgotten.<br /><br />Theirs is a journey born of tragedy and human endurance. The author unfolds a tale that is gripping in the telling, as enthralling as it is almost unbelievable. It is investigative reporting at its best, because it does not fail to convey the human drama and pathos behind the story of this remarkable struggle for survival high up in the Andes Mountains. Masterfully written, it is a well balanced narrative that takes great pains to ground the experience of the survivors in the context out of which it arose.<br /><br />The plane had crashed in the Andes Mountains on Argentinian territory. It was an exercise in terror for those on the plane, as it barreled down the mountain, before finally coming to rest in a valley of snow high up in the Andes. Of the forty five persons on board, thirty two had initially survived the crash. Some, however, had sustained serious injuries. Time would not be their friend. Moreover, with little warm clothing (keep in mind that October is springtime in South America), the survivors were exposed to the extreme cold of the night air, high up in the Andes. Though spring, this still meant temperatures well below freezing. Damp, cold, and hungry, amid the anguished cries of the injured, thus began the first of many such nights.<br /><br />By their tenth day in the Andes, the limited food supplies, which they had rationed with all the care of a miser, had virtually run out. Starving and ravenously hungry, they voiced what they all knew to be true, but had not dared to voice before. They must eat, or they would die. The only thing left for them to eat, however, was abhorrent and deeply repugnant to them. Digging deep into their conservative, religious souls, they found a way to justify actions that would have them transcend a new reality. Their fallen comrades would now provide the means of their sustenance. All eventually succumbed to this only means of survival.<br /><br />This, while one of the most dramatic parts of their story, is just that, a part. Their survival entailed much more. They had to endure other deprivations. They had to survive the elements. They had to overcome a profound despair over being seemingly forgotten by the outside world. Ultimately, only sixteen were able to do so. How they did so will fascinate all readers of adventure literature. The means that they took to let the world know that they were still alive will astound even the most jaded of readers. It is an account of human endurance that is thought provoking and compelling, a quest to reconcile physical needs with the spiritual. It is, above all, a riveting testament to life.ouls, they found a way to justify actions that would have them transcend a new reality. Their fallen comrades would now provide the means of their sustenance. All eventually succumbed to this only means of survival.<br /><br />This, while one of the most dramatic parts of their story, is just that, a part. Their survival entailed much more. They had to endure other deprivations. They had to survive the elements. They had to overcome a profound despair over being seemingly forgotten by the outside world. Ultimately, only sixteen were able to do so. How they did so will fascinate all readers of adventure literature. The means that they took to let the world know that they were still alive will astound even the most jaded of readers. It is an account of human endurance that is thought provoking and compelling, a quest to reconcile physical needs with the spiritual. It is, above all, a riveting testament to life.	2005-07-30
140785:US	49355567	RVQKFMR4W4AMJ	B0006W02UA	868613530	The Stepford Wives	Books	5	1	1	N	N	THE WIFE MANY MEN SECRETLY DESIRE...	This is a thought provoking, tautly written novella. A gem of suspense, it was first published in the early nineteen seventies and in 1975 went on to become a popular movie of the same name, starring Katherine Ross. It was remade again in 2004 with Nicole Kidman in the role previously played by Katherine Ross.<br /><br />The story is very simple but gripping and well written. Joanna Eberhart moves to the seemingly bucolic town of Stepford with her husband, Walter, and two children, leaving behind the dangers of big city living. An independent, assertive, intelligent, and creative woman, Joanna epitomizes the newly liberated women of the nineteen seventies. Looking for like souls with whom to become friends, she seeks out some of the other married women of the town, only to find that they are all uniformly addicted to housework, give their husbands complete obeisance, are made up to the gills, and have figures courtesy of maidenform.<br /><br />Joanna manages to find several like minded women such as herself. Yet, when they, too, become addicted to housework after having a romantic weekend alone with their respective husbands, Joanna becomes convinced that the town's Men's Association has hatched a sinister plot to change all the wives of Stepford into submissive Barbie dolls. Will Joanna manage to escape the fate of the rest of the Stepford wives? Read the book and find out. You will not be disappointed.	2005-07-30
140950:US	49355567	R37E2Y1FFCD48L	009945792X	786105285	Timeline	Books	5	3	6	N	N	A DAZZLING , HIGHLY IMAGINATIVE, AND ABSORBING BOOK...	This book is an absolute page-turner. It opens with one of the most absorbing first chapters I have ever read. An elderly man is found wandering in the desert, speaking in rhyme. There is something not quite right about him. The hospital to which he is taken discovers that the anomalies do not end with just his speech. Something is very wrong with him.<br /><br />Highly inventive and compelling, the reader is reeled in hook, line, and sinker, right from the get go. A wholly plot driven book, make no mistake about it, the story revolves around a highly secretive, technological corporation, ITC, headed up by a megalomaniacal, young genius, who is tooling around with quantum physics in a way that has never before been done. Our genius is spearheading a project that is truly cutting edge. Of course, he is not doing this for the betterment of mankind. He is doing it simply because it will ultimately result in mega bucks for him, if all goes according to plan. Alas, the best laid plans often go awry.<br /><br />Cut to a group of dedicated historians who are involved in an archaeological dig, located along the Dordogne River in France. Their project, the ultimate restoration of a fourteenth century, feudal town, is very generously funded by ITC. Now why would a technological giant such as ITC be funding such a project?<br /><br />This is the basic premise of the book. The use of quantum physics is applied in such a way as to access the past. Here, a group of historians find themselves with the chance of a lifetime. They can actually enter fourteenth century, feudal France and experience it themselves. There is quite an adventure in store for them.<br /><br />Their reason for doing so, however, is not research. They are actually on a mission to rescue their chief historian who had ventured into fourteenth century, feudal France, using ITC's technological application of quantum physics. Due to an unfortunate set of circumstances, however, he found himself mired in the fourteenth century and unable to return to the present, as originally planned.<br /><br />What happens to these intrepid historians will captivate the reader. Well written and thoroughly researched, those who, like me, love science fiction, as well as historical fiction, will, most likely, enjoy this book. As a devotee of medieval history, I was entranced by the historical detail contained within the novel. I also found the book somewhat reminiscent of the sci-fi television series called \\"Sliders\\", in which the concept of quantum physics is utilized in order to slide into parallel universes.<br /><br />All in all, this well written novel makes for riveting, escapist entertainment. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and found that I simply could not put it down!enth century and unable to return to the present, as originally planned.<br /><br />What happens to these intrepid historians will captivate the reader. Well written and thoroughly researched, those who, like me, love science fiction, as well as historical fiction, will, most likely, enjoy this book. As a devotee of medieval history, I was entranced by the historical detail contained within the novel. I also found the book somewhat reminiscent of the sci-fi television series called \\"Sliders\\", in which the concept of quantum physics is utilized in order to slide into parallel universes.<br /><br />All in all, this well written novel makes for riveting, escapist entertainment. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and found that I simply could not put it down!	2005-07-30
140958:US	49355567	RIWH0X89Z3IZ5	0340712538	79347454	The Devil's Teardrop	Books	5	2	2	N	N	MILLENNIUM MADNESS...	Author Jeffrey Deaver does it again! This is an immensely entertaining, page turning read for all thriller enthusiasts. The story line centers around an unknown killer unleashed upon Washington, D.C.. Known as the \\"Digger\\", this maniacal killer proceeds into D.C.'s Metro Station at 9:00 AM on New Year's Eve 1999 and begins a shooting spree that leaves many dead. The Digger has been instructed by an unknown criminal mastermind accomplice to kill hordes of people at clocked intervals on the eve of the millennium, unless a twenty million dollar demand for ransom is met. The ransom note is the only communication from this criminal genius who alone can control the actions of the killer. D.C.'s mayor agrees to pay the staggering ransom, but on the way to the drop, the accomplice appears to have been killed in a freak traffic accident. Who can now stop the \\"Digger\\" from his appointed rounds?<br /><br />Enter Parker Kincaid, document examiner extraordinaire and former FBI agent. Kincaid has been called back as a consultant to assist the FBI who need to stop the killer before he kills again. Kincaid is a wonderful, fully fleshed character. A single parent with his own share of troubles, he is as interesting as is Lincoln Rhyme, another of Deaver's characters around whom several of his books have revolved. Interestingly enough, Rhyme has a cameo appearance in this book which should give Deaver's fans an added kick while reading this book. Like Rhyme, Kincaid is a master of deductive reasoning and is a thinking person's detective. It is interesting how his analysis of the ransom note provides clues for the FBI to follow up in their quest to stop the killer before it is too late.<br /><br />The book is filled with numerous plot twists and turns, which should provide even the most jaded devotees of thrillers with a satisfying read. This action packed book keeps the reader guessing. Just when you think it's all over, you are yet once again surprised. The only criticism is that the end of the book strains the imagination. It almost borders on the absurd. Yet such is Deaver's writing that this does not impact unduly on the absolute enjoyment one will get from reading this book. It is a riveting read!e end of the book strains the imagination. It almost borders on the absurd. Yet such is Deaver's writing that this does not impact unduly on the absolute enjoyment one will get from reading this book. It is a riveting read!	2005-07-30
141062:US	49355567	R1DRD9QMYWHO82	0641505434	723229047	The Absence Of Nectar	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A MASTERFUL AND COMPELLING  NOVEL...	This is an unusual and engrossing page turner of a novel, beautifully and deftly written. In this, her second novel, the author sustains the quality of writing found in her amazing first book, \\"The House of Gentle Men\\". Those readers, who have read and enjoyed the author's first novel, will certainly love this book. I know I did.<br /><br />\\"The Absence of Nectar\\" is a well crafted thriller, as well as an unusual coming of age novel. The author, a masterful storyteller, is highly adept at building suspense. This book will certainly keep the discerning reader turning its pages.<br /><br />The story involves a precocious eleven year old girl, Alice Fendar, and her brother, Boone, who is two years older than his sister. He has an unusual pen pal, Persely Snow, a teen age girl who was committed to a mental hospital for allegedly trying to kill both her parents and succeeding in killing one. Persely has become a local folk hero, because of her legendary escapes from confinement, and Boone fancies himself in love with her.<br /><br />Alice and Boone live with their mother, Meg, after their father abandoned the family over another woman. The mother eventually meets another man, Simon Jester, when he saves her from drowning, while she is swimming with her children. He later tells her that he is a widower, having lost his wife and three year old child in a drowning accident. She is swept off her feet by him, and they marry.<br /><br />For some reason, the sassy and intelligent Alice does not take to her new step-father. Something about him, to her mind, is just not right. She scoffs at his assertion that he is a widower who lost his wife and three year old child in a drowning accident. In fact, she feels that there is something about him that seems to be downright evil. As time passes, Simon begins to reveal more and more of his true nature, and it appears that Alice just may be onto something, after all. Meanwhile, Boone is oblivious to all but his obsession with Persely Snow.<br /><br />Alice, herself, falls prey to an obsession. She becomes convinced that Simon is trying to kill her and Boone. Her brother finds that the easiest course to take is that of the path of least resistance, and so he falls in with Alice in her schemes to thwart Simon. At times, the book is terribly funny, at other times, achingly sad. The events set into motion one night will reveal to the reader what is really going on. It will also reveal the role that Persely Snow ultimately plays in all their lives. It is a role that rises to almost mythic stature.<br /><br />This lyrically written book is strangely compelling, quirky, and riveting, holding the reader in its thrall. It is a stunning and triumphant tour de force by the author.ow.<br /><br />Alice, herself, falls prey to an obsession. She becomes convinced that Simon is trying to kill her and Boone. Her brother finds that the easiest course to take is that of the path of least resistance, and so he falls in with Alice in her schemes to thwart Simon. At times, the book is terribly funny, at other times, achingly sad. The events set into motion one night will reveal to the reader what is really going on. It will also reveal the role that Persely Snow ultimately plays in all their lives. It is a role that rises to almost mythic stature.<br /><br />This lyrically written book is strangely compelling, quirky, and riveting, holding the reader in its thrall. It is a stunning and triumphant tour de force by the author.	2005-07-30
141108:US	49355567	R3HYDX2CZFK3CC	0006531202	624836488	In the Heart of the Sea: The Epic True Story That Inspired `Moby Dick'	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	A WHALE OF A TALE...	This is a first rate, well crafted work of non-fiction. The author has a gift for putting together a compelling narrative about the unusual ordeal of the whale ship, Essex, which sailed out of Nantucket and was done in on the high seas by an extremely aggressive sperm whale that attacked it. So complete was the damage that the ship sank, its crew of twenty cast adrift upon a seemingly infinite ocean to find their way back home in three small boats. This real life, unheard of attack by a whale was the basis for Herman Melville's classic work of fiction, \\"Moby Dick\\".<br /><br />What the author does is ground what happened to these most unfortunate of men in the historical context of the time. He paints a picture of the milieu in which they lived. Their lives were governed entirely by the whaling industry that was the bread and butter for Nantucket Island, the whaling capital of the world.<br /><br />Drawing upon narratives by some of the survivors, as well as other historical data, he paints in intricate detail what life must have been like for these men. He weaves a tapestry of early nineteenth century life on the island of Nantucket and the preeminence of whaling in the lives of those who lived there, as well as the role of the Quakers. In essence, he brings the men, who were involved in this most notorious of survival at sea stories, to life for the reader. It is a balanced narrative.<br /><br />This was to be the first voyage as Captain for the democratic George Pollard, who was teamed up with a very aggressive and ambitious first mate, Owen Chase. This was later to prove to be a poor combination. Nearly a third of the crew was African-American, which was an interesting twist, arising out of the abolitionist views of the Quakers, whose views were the mainstay of Nantucket. Most of the crew was very young, the cabin boy being but fourteen years of age.<br /><br />When the Essex was attacked while on the high seas by a gigantic, aggressive sperm whale and destroyed in the process, the story of the what happened to the crew makes for one of the most engrossing and amazing stories of survival ever to be told. Their ordeal lasted for months, and dehydration and starvation were to drive them to a new frontier of human behavior. That threshold, however, once crossed, was one that would forever haunt those who survived. Their agonizing journey and foray into anthropophagy is chillingly chronicled.<br /><br />This is a riveting and triumphant book. It is a tale richly told by a masterful storyteller, who is able to make this work of non-fiction come to life for the reader. it is simply a great book.in the process, the story of the what happened to the crew makes for one of the most engrossing and amazing stories of survival ever to be told. Their ordeal lasted for months, and dehydration and starvation were to drive them to a new frontier of human behavior. That threshold, however, once crossed, was one that would forever haunt those who survived. Their agonizing journey and foray into anthropophagy is chillingly chronicled.<br /><br />This is a riveting and triumphant book. It is a tale richly told by a masterful storyteller, who is able to make this work of non-fiction come to life for the reader. it is simply a great book.	2005-07-30
141222:US	49355567	R1FN8VQN7NKHS4	0340793112	328989327	Manhattan Is My Beat	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A BRASH AND BREEZY, PAGE TURNING READ...	This is one of the author's earlier works, and while it is not one of his best efforts, it is still a cut above what is currently proffered by other writers of this genre. Jeffrey Deaver writes with a decidedly contemporary feel, his prose always spare and lean. While he does not dwell unduly on character development, it does not deter from the book, as it is wholly plot driven, with enough twists and turns to keep the reader guessing until the last minute. It makes for a quick, enjoyable read.<br /><br />The book revolves around a decades old bank robbery in which the million dollars heisted was never recovered. This robbery was memorialized in an old bete noire film entitled \\"Manhattan is My Beat\\". Enter the story's unlikely heroine, twenty year old Rune of the purple hair, who works in a video store, squats in an abandoned loft that she calls home, and has an imagination that doesn't quit.<br /><br />When one of her video customers is killed execution style in his apartment, Rune is drawn into events of the past, as they converge upon the present. The now dead customer had repeatedly rented the film, \\"Manhattan is My Beat\\", and Rune firmly believes that there is a connection between his death and the age old bank heist. Her do-or-die resolve to discover why her customer was killed leads the moxie endowed Rune on a merry and dangerous chase. It is one that keeps the reader fully engaged and entertained.	2005-07-30
141223:US	49355567	R39BOAZ0K6D0IR	031852015X	524410290	La Prisonniere (in French) (French Edition)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	A GREAT STORY BUT POORLY WRITTEN...	This is a book that on its face held a lot of promise. Any story in which a mother and her children, as well as faithful family retainers, are unjustly imprisoned in squalid conditions for twenty years for an ostensible crime committed by the familial patriarch would certainly be of interest. Wrong! This is a tepid and disappointing book, poorly written and, most certainly, poorly edited. It is so filled with contradictions and inconsistencies, as to create somewhat of a credibility gap for the reader.<br /><br />The story revolves around the Oufkir family, who were, at one time, a prominent, highly respected, and well known Moroccan family. Their story is told by Malika Oufkir, who is the eldest daughter of the late General Oufkir, who was executed in August 1972, immediately following an aborted attempt to assassinate King Hassan II of Morocco, for whom he was the Minister of Defense. General's Oufkir's treasonous action was the catalyst for the tragic turn of events that were to engulf his family.<br /><br />After the aborted coup, the General's immediate family was placed under house arrest and four months later, along with two loyal family retainers who volunteered to share their fate, were whisked away to the first of several desert prisons that were to house them for the next fifteen years.<br /><br />As Malika tells it, hers was initially almost a fairy tale story. Brought up in luxurious surroundings, she suffered early heartbreak when, at the age of five, she was separated from her family and \\"adopted\\" by then King Muhammad V, so as to be a live in playmate for the King's daughter. This adoption is never really explained, and one has no idea what her parents' thoughts were on this issue. Malika lived in the Palace in the lap of luxury for many years. As a teenager, however, she moved back with her family, where, there too, she continued to live a very privileged life, steeped in luxury and money.<br /><br />After the Oufkirs' circumstances changed, theirs is truly a tragic story. There is little doubt that the conditions in their desert prisons were deplorable and squalid. With inadequate sanitation, insufficient food, no medical care, or educational provisions, the family was truly living a life of privation. Cutoff from the outside world, as they were, they truly were disenfranchised.<br /><br />Their escape from their last desert prison, an escape which brought their plight to the consciousness of the public, was amazing. But for their escape, there is no doubt in my mind that they would still be languishing in a desert prison today, barely alive, if not already dead. I salute their determination and ingenuity in making a desperate break for freedom.<br /><br />The problem lies in the telling of the story, which is so poorly told. Many things are left unexplained. No effort is made to ground the events that led to their family's downfall in a historical context. Whatever Malika said seems to have been what went into the final draft of this book, even if she contradicted herself a page or two later, which is the main problem with the book. There are so many inconsistencies with what Malika herself says, that the discerning reader is left to question much of what she represents.<br /><br />Malika comes across as a somewhat self-absorbed, vapid woman to whom fate dealt a harsh and unusually cruel hand. Her self-absorption is most evident in that she barely acknowledges the sacrifice of the two faithful family retainers, who voluntarily shared their fate, nor does she discuss the impact that this had on them. It is also a little disconcerting that more does not come through about the perceptions the other family members had about this hellish experience. Their insight might have provided a little more balance and interest to the narrative. In the hands of a good writer and excellent editor, this book might have withstood scrutiny and met expectations.<br /><br />Sorry, Oprah, your book club selections are usually excellent. This one fails to make the grade.llent. This one fails to make the grade.	2005-07-30
141433:US	49355567	R16YYS7UUCAYZH	0340863536	393857282	The Hiding Place	Books	5	21	23	N	N	HE WORKS IN MYSTERIOUS WAYS...	This is an absolutely extraordinary book. Never have I read a book in which the spiritual beauty of the author so resonated throughout the story. The purity of heart that manifests itself in this inspiring saga of a heroic, Dutch family in Nazi occupied Holland during World War II is stunningly beautiful.<br /><br />This is the true story of the Ten Boom family who, during the Nazi occupation of The Netherlands, upon seeing what was happening to their Jewish neighbors and friends, asked themselves this age old question \\"If not us,...who; if not now,...when?\\" They answered it, ultimately at great cost.<br /><br />The Ten Booms were devoutly Christian and lived a simple life. The patriarch of the family ran a watch shop that had been in his family for a century. Some of the family members, the author among them, worked there, selling and repairing clocks and watches. They also lived in the house in which the shop was located.<br /><br />When the Nazis occupied their country, the reality of what it meant slowly dawned upon them, as they saw the treatment given to their fellow Dutch citizens of the Jewish faith. Moved by their plight, the author at the age of fifty, together with other members of her family, including their father who was nearly eighty, became active in the Dutch underground.<br /><br />When it became clear to the Ten Booms that Jews were being targeted for deportation and death, they had a false wall constructed in the author's bedroom, thereby creating a secret room. There, they would hide the terrified Jews who were staying with them, in the event of a Nazi raid upon their home.<br /><br />Eventually denounced by someone to the Nazis, the Ten Booms were arrested and their home raided and torn apart by the Gestapo, in their search for the Jews they believed to be hiding there. At the time of the raid, the Ten Boom home was filled to capacity with Jews in hiding. So well concealed was the hidden room that had been created by the erection of the false wall, that these poor, terrified Jews managed to escape detection.<br /><br />The Ten Boom family did not fare so well. It was upon their arrest that they learned first hand of man's inhumanity to man, and their faith was put to a test that they had never dreamt possible. It was faith, however, that sustained the author in what was to be her hour of darkest despair. To find out what happened to the Ten Booms, read this book. It is the story of an incredible family, who had the courage to put their convictions to the test.<br /><br />This book is a masterpiece. The reader is sure to be captivated by the goodness and spiritual beauty contained within its pages.all, that these poor, terrified Jews managed to escape detection.<br /><br />The Ten Boom family did not fare so well. It was upon their arrest that they learned first hand of man's inhumanity to man, and their faith was put to a test that they had never dreamt possible. It was faith, however, that sustained the author in what was to be her hour of darkest despair. To find out what happened to the Ten Booms, read this book. It is the story of an incredible family, who had the courage to put their convictions to the test.<br /><br />This book is a masterpiece. The reader is sure to be captivated by the goodness and spiritual beauty contained within its pages.	2005-07-30
141582:US	49355567	RHIYFJW56GW4Q	0340157011	829916644	Katherine: The classic historical romance (Coronet Books)	Books	5	1	3	N	Y	A SCINTILLATING LOVE AFFAIR THAT ROCKED FOURTEENTH CENTURY ENGLAND...	Written half a century ago, this well-researched historical fiction is as vibrant and as stirring today, as it, undoubtedly, was when it was first written. A best seller in its day, the book regales the reader with the story of Katherine De Roet and John of Gaunt.<br /><br />Born commoners to a herald who was knighted before he died, Katherine and her older sister Philippa, who went on to marry Geoffrey Chaucer, were left poor as church mice. While Philippa managed to obtain a post in the household of the Queen, wife to King Edward III of England, Katherine was sent to a convent.<br /><br />When she had grown into her early teens and become a raving beauty, Katherine left the convent to join her sister at Court. Upon doing so, her youthful beauty captivated a boorish knight, Sir Hugh Swynford, who lusted after her. He eventually married Katherine, when it became clear that it would be the only way by which he could satisfy his desire.<br /><br />At the same time that she met her husband to be, she also caught the eye of John of Gaunt, the Duke of Lancaster, son of King Edward III and brother to the heir to the throne, Edward, the Black Prince. John was, at the time, happily married to a beautiful woman named Blanche, who would befriend Katherine.<br /><br />After reluctantly becoming Lady Swynford, Katherine retired to her husband's estates. She would meet John of Gaunt again, igniting a passion that upon the death of Blanche and that of Sir Hugh Swynford would be consummated. For John of Gaunt, Katherine would remain the love of his life and his mistress, even though, for reasons of state, he could not marry her, at the time. He, instead, married the heiress to the throne of Castile.<br /><br />Still, Katherine remained with him, bearing him many children. Their illicit union was to cause much unrest and scandal throughout England, until they finally parted, only to reunite in their later years. John of Gaunt would then do something unprecedented. This act would bring them much happiness in their final years.<br /><br />This is a richly drawn portrait of a scintillating love affair in a time that was rife with political intrigue. Set in a medieval landscape with all the pageantry, strife, and turbulence that constituted fourteenth century England, this beautifully written narrative is peppered with those characters and individuals that made the period memorable. It is a novel to be savored and one with which the most discerning reader would be well satisfied. Bravo!ing them much happiness in their final years.<br /><br />This is a richly drawn portrait of a scintillating love affair in a time that was rife with political intrigue. Set in a medieval landscape with all the pageantry, strife, and turbulence that constituted fourteenth century England, this beautifully written narrative is peppered with those characters and individuals that made the period memorable. It is a novel to be savored and one with which the most discerning reader would be well satisfied. Bravo!	2005-07-30
141681:US	49355567	R1RYB46J8IO98U	0333735420	674569455	Into the Wild	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	KING OF THE ROAD...	This is a poignant, compelling narrative about Chris McCandless, an intelligent, intense, and idealistic young man, who cut off all ties to his upper middle class family. He then reinvented himself as Alexander Supertramp, a drifter living out of a backpack, eking out a marginal existence as he wandered throughout the United States. A modern day King of the Road, McCandless ended his journey in 1992 in Alaska, when he walked alone into the wilderness north of Denali. He never returned.<br /><br />Krakauer investigated this young man's short life in an attempt to explain why someone who has everything going for him would have chosen this lifestyle, only to end up dead in one of the most remote, rugged areas of the Alaskan wilderness. Whether one views McCandless as a fool or as a modern day Thoreau is a question ripe for discussion. It is clear, however, from Krakauer's writing that his investigation led him to feel a strong, spiritual kinship with McCandless. It is this kindred spirit approach to his understanding of this young man that makes Krakauer's writing so absorbing and moving.<br /><br />Krakauer retraced McCandless' journey, interviewing many of those with whom he came into contact. What metamorphosed is a haunting, riveting account of McCandless' travels and travails, and the impact he had on those with whom he came into contact. Krakauer followed McCandless' last steps into the Alaskan wilderness, so that he could see for himself how McCandless had lived, and how he had died. This book is his epitaph.	2005-07-29
141699:US	49355567	R2XDIOKP7U826M	8535905537	139686720	Tocando O Vazio - A Historia Real da Miraculosa So (Em Portugues do Brasil)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	EXTREME ADVENTURE IN THE PERUVIAN ANDES...	This is the Portuguese text edition of \\"Touching the Void\\", an amazing tale of courage, fortitude, and a desire to live, despite dire circumstances. The author, Joe Simpson and his climbing partner, Simon Yates, ascend a perilous section of the Peruvian Andes. Near the summit, tragedy strikes when Joe, up over 19,000 feet, falls and hits a slope at the base of a cliff, breaking his right leg, rupturing his right knee, and shattering his right heel. Beneath him is a seemingly endless fall to the bottom. Simon reaches him but knows that the chances for Joe to get off the mountain are virtually non-existent. Yet, they fashion a daring plan to to do just that.<br /><br />For the next few hours, through a snow storm, they work in tandem, and manage a risky, yet effective way of trying to lower Joe down the mountain. About three thousand feet down, Joe who is still roped to Simon, drops off an edge, and finds himself now free hanging in space six feet away from an ice wall, unable to reach it with his axe. The edge is over hung about fifteen feet above him. The dark outline of a crevasse lies about a hundred feet directly below him.<br /><br />Joe couldn't get up, and Simon couldn't get down. In fact, Joe's weight began to pull Simon off the mountain. So, Simon was finally forced to do the only thing he could do under the circumstances. He cut the rope, believing that he was consigning his friend to certain death. Therein lies the tale.<br /><br />What happens next is sure to make one believe in miracles.	2005-07-29
141945:US	49355567	R1FDEDEF34302H	0553205145	571684273	Flowers for Algernon	Books	5	4	4	N	N	FOOD FOR THOUGHT	This is a wonderful and highly original novel about a mentally challenged man named Charlie who wanted to be smart. One day, his wish was granted. A group of scientists selected him for an experimental operation that raised his intelligence to genius level. Suddenly, Charlie found himself transformed, and life, as he knew it, changed.<br /><br />His story is told entirely through Charlie's eyes and perceptions in the form of progress reports. The reader actually sees the change in Charlie take place, as his progress reports become more complex, well written, and filled with the angst of personal discovery and growth, as well as with his gradual awareness of his amazing and accelerated intellectual development.<br /><br />The progress reports are a wonderful contrivance for facilitating the story, and the reader is one with Charlie on his voyage of self-discovery. What happens to Charlie in the long run is profoundly moving and thought provoking. It is no wonder that this author was the recipient of the Nebula Award which is given by the Science Fiction Writers of America for having written the Best Novel of the Year. This is definitely a book well worth reading.	2005-07-29
142625:US	49355567	R36LTQGPPUBXII	0393074471	381649215	Minus 148°: The Winter Ascent of Mt. McKinley	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A HARROWING AND HISTORIC FIRST...	It is clear from the beginning of this book that trouble was looming on the horizon for these intrepid, but somewhat reckless, climbers. The loss early on of one of their comrades to a fall into a crevasse was predictable. How they could think of walking unroped, on a glacier that they knew was ridden with crevasses, is almost unbelievable. This was due, no doubt, to youthful inexperience and a lack of leadership necessary to set the parameters of what would be acceptable in terms of safety. These factors combined were to cost them dearly. It was not until near the end of their forty two day stay on the mountain, that they coalesced into a team.<br /><br />Notwithstanding the sheer recklessness of their initial, bumbling efforts at a winter ascent of Mt. McKinley, the fact remains that they did achieve the first such summit, no mean feat any time of year, but almost inconceivable in the dead of winter. Coming off the summit, their thermometer recorded the temperature at a quite bone chilling minus fifty eight degrees. Caught in a whiteout on their descent, however, the three summiteers were forced to dig a snow cave, where they were to spend endless days, in weather which saw temperatures plummet to an almost mind boggling minus one hundred and forty eight degrees with the wind chill factor, hence the name of the book. That they could survive this, is a testament to their fortitude.<br /><br />In their snow cave, it was a relatively toasty minus thirty five below. That snow cave was the only thing that stood between them and certain death. With virtually no food, frost bitten, and suffering from disorientation due to the altitude, they waited out the storm and lived to tell the tale. This gripping chronicle, of the forty two days they spent on the highest and coldest mountain in North America, is a classic in mountaineering literature and one of the best books on McKinley climbs. Those who love this genre will certainly enjoy this book.	2005-07-29
143039:US	49355567	R2ICMPLZI48G2H	B0006BTD4C	45128405	Starlight and storm;: The ascent of six great north faces of the Alps	Books	4	3	3	N	N	POETRY IN MOTION...THE BROTHERHOOD OF THE ROPE...	Lyrically written, the author, Gaston Rebuffat, one of the world's climbing greats, expresses such joy for mountaineering that it is infectious. No climbing enthusiast's library should be without this book. Rebuffat is positively poetic in his description of various climbs. The reader almost feels as if one were as one with the mountain. A purist, the author climbed not for the glory of it, but for the sheer joy of the brotherhood of the rope. In these days, where climbing is often just a reason for a media event, the author's approach is refreshing, indeed.	2005-07-29
143255:US	49355567	RPEGQD5LGCXU6	0563494298	2859176	Double Indemnity	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A KILLER PLOT...	This book, more novella than novel, is intricately plotted and a very quick read. Wholly plot-driven, the book is a classic morality tale. A seductive woman, Phyllis Nirdlinger, desires to kill her wealthy husband. An otherwise intelligent insurance agent, Walter Huff,  falls under her spell. Together they put together a seemingly failsafe plan to do the dastardly deed, making it appear as if it were an accident, so that the double indemnity clause in an insurance policy will kick into play. The problem is that all is not as it initially seems.<br /><br />Written as a first person narrative by the insurance agent, the writing is tight, spare, and lean. No word is wasted. Yet, the minimalism works to the advantage of the story, as it makes the intricacy of the plotting clear to the reader. Having seen the film with Fred MacMurray and Barbara Stanwyck in the lead roles, I kept hearing Fred MacMurray's voice in my head as I read the book. While the film deviates from the book in a number of ways, it is classic film noir at its best and well-worth viewing. Likewise, the book is a classic in its own right, and those who like hard-boiled crime fiction will not be disappointed.	2005-07-28
144277:US	49355567	RVDUOSKDRO3WV	2277238740	89906064	Mes enfants d'une autre vie	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A FASCINATING LOOK AT REINCARNATION...	I first read about the strange story of Jenny Cockell and her search for her past life children in \\"People\\" magazine many years ago and found it fascinating. I did not realize that she had written a book about her experience, until I happened to catch a movie on cable television that was titled, \\"Yesterday's Children\\", starring Jane Seymour. As soon as I saw the film, I realized that it was the story of the woman about whom I had read so many years before. When I saw that the film was based upon a book that she had written about her experience, I immediately ordered the book, \\"Across Time and Death: A Mother's Search for her Past Life Children\\", from Amazon. This is the French text edition of that book.<br /><br />The book is an intriguing look at the concept of reincarnation. Jenny Cockell's experience would tend to support such a concept. Ever since she was a child, Jenny was haunted by dreams and fragments of a past life, of Mary, a woman who had died twenty one years before Jenny was born, of children who were Mary's but whom Jenny felt were, nonetheless, her own, of a town in Ireland in which she had lived as Mary. So, when Jenny Cockell was a woman in her thirties, she decided to investigate those memories. Always at the forefront of her mind were thoughts of those children of long ago. What she would discover would give even the most hardened nay-sayer food for thought.<br /><br />This is a well-written, persuasive account of a past life, as well as the story of a mother's love for her children, a love that would reach across time and transcend temporal reality. For those who discount the concept of reincarnation and think that this is all that there is, I would suggest that they read this book and think again.	2005-07-28
144500:US	49355567	RQUBL0UCVFOYD	9681310101	8530401	Hornos de Hitler/Hitler's Ovens, Spanish Edition	Books	5	5	5	N	N	MAN'S INHUMANITY TO MAN...	This is the Spanish text edition of the book, \\"I Survived Hitler's Ovens\\". It is the story of a woman who spent about seven months in Auschwitz and survived to tell the tale. She wrote this book, which was later released under the less lurid and now better known title, \\"Five Chimneys\\", shortly after her ordeal, while her horrific experience was still fresh in her mind. It was definitely a mind numbing, life changing experience, as it saw the loss of her entire family, her parents, her children, and her husband. It should be noted that none of them, including Olga, were Jews.<br /><br />Olga Lengyel lived an upper-middle class existence in Transylvania, in the capital city of Cluj. Her husband, Dr. Miklos Lengyel, was a Berlin trained medical doctor and the director of a private hospital that he had built shortly before the onset of World War II. Olga had also studied medicine and was qualified to be a surgical assistant. She and her husband had two young sons. They were all surviving the war as best they could, with Germans an occupying force. They even had a German soldier billeted with them for a time.<br /><br />Olga had begun to hear disturbing things about what the Germans were doing in occupied territories, but had discounted it. She felt that Germany, a country that had contributed so much culturally to the world, could not be culpable of some of the atrocities of which she was hearing. She felt the stories that she was hearing were too fantastical to be believable. Then her husband came under the cross-hairs of the Nazis, accused of having his hospital boycott pharmaceuticals made by the German Bayer Company. This was the beginning of the end for the Lengyel family. Shortly thereafter in May of 1944, he was ordered to be deported to Germany.<br /><br />When Olga heard this, she insisted on accompanying her husband, as she thought that he would be put to work in a German hospital. She naively asked the Nazis if she could accompany her husband, and they had no objection. When her parents heard, they insisted on going with them, which meant that Olga's young sons would also be going. Once they got to the train station and saw that they were all to board a cattle car with ninety-six other people, they knew that their nightmare was just beginning. Their destination was Birkenau-Auschwitz.<br /><br />Olga recounts the horrors that awaited her family there. Hers is a testament to the brutality of the Nazi regime towards Jews and non-Jews alike. In it Olga chronicles her first hand observations of Dr, Joseph Mengele and his passion for twins and dwarfs, as well as his mad scientist medical experiments. She recalls her run ins with the \\"blonde angel\\", the exceptionally beautiful and sadistic Nazi, Irma Griese. She talks about the selections that were made, which determined who lived and who died. She makes it clear that the Jews were targeted, first and foremost, for extermination. She recounts the utter depravity with which the inmates of the camp were treated, creating a veritable hell on earth.<br /><br />Ms. Lengyel gives a no-holds-barred account of life at one of the most notorious concentration camps run by the Nazis. She affirms that the chimneys of its crematoriums appeared to be burning night and day towards the end of the war in a last ditch effort to complete its mission. While her chronicle might have benefited from some better or more careful editing, this is a minor criticism, as hers is a powerful voice in the arena of holocaust literature. It is a book that should be read by those who are interested in learning more about these concentration camps and about man's inhumanity to man.objection. When her parents heard, they insisted on going with them, which meant that Olga's young sons would also be going. Once they got to the train station and saw that they were all to board a cattle car with ninety-six other people, they knew that their nightmare was just beginning. Their destination was Birkenau-Auschwitz.<br /><br />Olga recounts the horrors that awaited her family there. Hers is a testament to the brutality of the Nazi regime towards Jews and non-Jews alike. In it Olga chronicles her first hand observations of Dr, Joseph Mengele and his passion for twins and dwarfs, as well as his mad scientist medical experiments. She recalls her run ins with the \\"blonde angel\\", the exceptionally beautiful and sadistic Nazi, Irma Griese. She talks about the selections that were made, which determined who lived and who died. She makes it clear that the Jews were targeted, first and foremost, for extermination. She recounts the utter depravity with which the inmates of the camp were treated, creating a veritable hell on earth.<br /><br />Ms. Lengyel gives a no-holds-barred account of life at one of the most notorious concentration camps run by the Nazis. She affirms that the chimneys of its crematoriums appeared to be burning night and day towards the end of the war in a last ditch effort to complete its mission. While her chronicle might have benefited from some better or more careful editing, this is a minor criticism, as hers is a powerful voice in the arena of holocaust literature. It is a book that should be read by those who are interested in learning more about these concentration camps and about man's inhumanity to man.	2005-07-28
145104:US	49355567	R3PEIW9X5NKXZT	0670587451	226975137	Felicias Journey	Books	4	17	19	N	Y	A LONG DAY'S JOURNEY INTO NIGHT...	This is an intriguing book of psychological suspense for which its author  was the recipient of the 1994 Whitbread Award. Written by a master storyteller, it tells the story of two people whose lives interconnect, only to have repercussions for both in the most unexpected ways.<br /><br />Felicia is a seventeen year old motherless and naive Irish girl, who has become intimate with an Irish boy named Johnny. Of course, the expected ensues, and after Johnny has left Ireland and returned to England where he ostensibly works, Felicia is left holding the bag. Her disapproving father suspects Johnny of actually being in the British Army and, thus, a traitor to his own. He also has a few choice words for his daughter, now that she is in the family way, and none of it is flattering. So, Felicia leaves her rural village and her family and goes off in search of Johnny, having nothing more than the vaguest of ideas where he might be.<br /><br />She crosses the Irish Sea and arrives in the English Midlands in the industrial city of Birmingham, as she believes Johnny to be working in a lawn mower factory there. In her search for Johnny, she runs into the portly catering manager for one of the local factories. His name is  Joseph Ambrose Hilditch, and he is outwardly a jovial and agreeable man, well-liked by his co-workers and meticulous about his culinary repasts. He lives in solitary splendor in  the large house in which he grew up. The house is cluttered with collectibles but well- kept, although decorated in the style of a bygone era. Mr. Hilditch is, indeed, a collector, but his collection is initially far beyond Felicia's imaginings.  In fact, Mr. Hilditch has a darker side to him, which is not immediately discernible by the unwary.<br /><br />When Felicia first meets Mr. Hilditch, it is to ask for information, but something about her catches Mr. Hilditch's fancy, and he finds himself keeping Felicia in his crosshairs. When Felicia seemingly unexpectedly runs into Mr. Hilditch again, he directs her to lodgings, and so it begins. As Mr. Hilditch insinuates himself ever so slowly into her life, weaving a fantasy about his own life that is sure to put her mind at ease about him. Felicia begins finding herself ensnared  by this ostensibly kind and ever so helpful, avuncular man, and she initially fails to see the darkness that lies at the core of his being.<br /><br />The author begins the book with Felicia's journey to England in search of her lover.  Using flashbacks throughout the story, the author fills in Felicia's background and describes the events that have brought her to the point of making  this journey. When Mr. Hilditch is introduced to the reader, the author begins to take the reader into the recesses of his mind, allowing the reader to see  what Felicia initially fails to see, the duplicity and cunning that is masked by his overt geniality. Like a spider to the fly, Mr. Hilditch begins laying his trap, and so Felicia's journey thrusts her into the belly of the beast.<br /><br />With his carefully cadenced prose,  the author explores the darker corners of the human psyche, and  in the mind of Mr. Hilditch, it is dark, indeed. As his carefully constructed psychological house of cards begins to fall, there are unspeakable revelations as to what lies at the heart of Mr. Hilditch's predilection, and it is not pretty. The author, in taking  the reader into the recesses of the mind of each of the  two  protagonists, tries to explain how it is that each of these two flawed human beings were able initially to achieve a connection with another, only to find ostensible betrayal. What is decidedly different is the way that they each cope with that betrayal.<br /><br />There is no happily-ever-after ending to this story, which culminates with a conclusion that is quite bleak, robbing the reader of some satisfaction. Fans of Ruth Rendell, however, will very much appreciate the psychological cat and mouse game that is played throughout andwill enjoy the author's foray into this genre. As always, the author pens a novel that provides much food for thought on many levels, and the use of the word journey in the title of the book has a much broader meaning within the context of the story. In reading this book, fans will enjoy the  elegant, spare prose that they have come to expect from this enormously talented author.will enjoy the author's foray into this genre. As always, the author pens a novel that provides much food for thought on many levels, and the use of the word journey in the title of the book has a much broader meaning within the context of the story. In reading this book, fans will enjoy the  elegant, spare prose that they have come to expect from this enormously talented author.	2005-07-28
150589:US	49355567	R1LPCBJGC6LUB3	0066620422	567929361	Amazon.com: Get Big Fast	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	THE RISE OF A CORPORATE AND CULTURAL E-COMMERCE LEVIATHAN...	This is an unauthorized account of an e-commerce leviathan's rise from obscurity. So, if one is looking for a detailed business module or a blue print of its technology, look elsewhere, as this is not the book for you. What this book offers is a very interesting, well-organized narrative on the early, heady days of Amazon.com. when it was just an upstart internet  bookseller looking to make its mark big time, as well as a look at its founder, Jeff Bezos, painting a flattering and intriguing portrait of this now multi-billionaire.<br /><br />For its founder, Jeff Bezos, it was not, however,  just about the money. If that were the case, he would never have left his seven figure Wall Street job. For him, it  was about the opportunity to be on the ground floor of a business that would change the retailing community forever. Jeff Bezos, a true visionary, chose to take that challenge, and in doing so, he would forever change the dot.com world and the retailing community. The author, a business reporter for various publications, delineates just how it was that Jeff Bezos did so.<br /><br />This book offers up an interesting summary on how Jeff Bezos was able to take the online community by storm and upset the status quo. The author provides a biographical narrative on who Jeff Bezos is. It is grounded in the context of where he grew up, his schooling, as well as his early interests. It segues from his Ivy League educational underpinnings to his foray into the upper echelons of Wall Street, deriving the experience that he needed in order to take on the risky proposition of starting up his own dot.com company. It is clearly the story of a visionary and decision maker with heart.<br /><br />The book succinctly details the rise of Amazon.com as an e-commerce force with which to be reckoned.  It tracks its growth and change from an upstart, fledging, by- the-seat-of-its-pants-company to one that is now a staple of the popular lexicon. It superficially explores the philosophy of Jeff Bezos in terms of having his business \\"get big fast\\" and the technological, financial, and logistical hurdles that the business needed to overcome in order to do so. The author also keys in on the ability of Jeff Bezos to think out of the box, when so many business pundits said that what he sought to do could not be done.<br /><br />The overall texture of this book is enhanced by Information provided by those with some insider knowledge, such as those who knew Jeff Bezos, those who worked with him in those early halcyon days, rival \\"brick and mortar\\" executives, business analysts, and financiers, among others. This book, which is a look at a visionary and his company, details how that visionary was able to transform his company into a veritable cultural phenomenon unto itself.  Those who are devotees of Amazon will find this well-written book heady stuff, indeed, as it makes for absorbing reading.Jeff Bezos in terms of having his business \\"get big fast\\" and the technological, financial, and logistical hurdles that the business needed to overcome in order to do so. The author also keys in on the ability of Jeff Bezos to think out of the box, when so many business pundits said that what he sought to do could not be done.<br /><br />The overall texture of this book is enhanced by Information provided by those with some insider knowledge, such as those who knew Jeff Bezos, those who worked with him in those early halcyon days, rival \\"brick and mortar\\" executives, business analysts, and financiers, among others. This book, which is a look at a visionary and his company, details how that visionary was able to transform his company into a veritable cultural phenomenon unto itself.  Those who are devotees of Amazon will find this well-written book heady stuff, indeed, as it makes for absorbing reading.	2005-07-24
154394:US	49355567	R1G0CT36UVB3BD	0671452207	59773996	The Daughter of Time	Books	5	1	1	N	N	ENGLISH HISTORY AND MYSTERY ALL ROLLED INTO ONE...	This is a wonderful genre bending book...part mystery, part history. Written by Scotswoman Elizabeth MacIntosh, who wrote under the pen name Josephine Tey, it was first published in 1951. It is tragic that the author died in 1952 and was never to know the pleasure that this book would bring to generations of readers and that the Mystery Writers of America would ultimately rank it fourth among the one hundred best mysteries ever written.<br /><br />The title of the book is derived from a historical source, as it is attributable to Sir Francis Bacon, \\"For truth is rightly named after the daughter of time, and not of authority.\\" The book itself is not a traditional mystery but rather an application of deductive reasoning to an actual historical event. The event in question is the murder of the princes in the tower, sons of King Edward IV, allegedly by their uncle, Richard III, who eventually usurped the English throne after the death of his brother. It has been widely held that Richard III did, indeed, murder the two young princes, his nephews, in order to secure his claim to the throne.<br /><br />The reader is introduced to Scotland Yard Inspector Alan Grant, who is hospitalized and recovering from injuries sustained in the line of duty. While convalescing, he becomes intrigued by a picture of a portrait of Richard III, a likeness with which he is unfamiliar. Grant is puzzled that someone with such a sensitive face could have been such a monster as to murder his two nephews in cold blood. So, our intrepid Inspector decides that he will reconsider the evidence upon which such a dastardly assumption has been based. With the help of an American researcher doing the necessary legwork, Grant compiles enough archival historical fact that incrementally helps him formulate a new theory as to who actually may have murdered the princes in the tower.<br /><br />This analysis and reformulation is done as though it were being argued to a jury. Indeed, so persuasive is Inspector Grant through the application of some insightful deductive reasoning and clever dialogue that the reader comes away thinking that Grant has solved one of the most intriguing historical mysteries of all time. This is certainly an unusual book conceptually but one that succeeds brilliantly. It should appeal to those readers who enjoy having a mystery unraveled, as well as to those who harbor a love of English history. Bravo!rant through the application of some insightful deductive reasoning and clever dialogue that the reader comes away thinking that Grant has solved one of the most intriguing historical mysteries of all time. This is certainly an unusual book conceptually but one that succeeds brilliantly. It should appeal to those readers who enjoy having a mystery unraveled, as well as to those who harbor a love of English history. Bravo!	2005-07-21
154697:US	49355567	RRNWF0O68OB72	8440673590	869633275	El Libro del Dia del Juicio Final (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	TERRIFIC TIME TRAVEL TALE...	Winner of both the Hugo and Nebula Awards for science fiction, this book, the Spanish text edition of \\"The Doomsday Book\\",  is a tour de force that is sure to captivate all those who love time travel themes, as well as those who have a deep appreciation for medieval history. The author masterfully melds these two genres, creating a novel that is riveting and highly entertaining.<br /><br />The year is 2048 A.D., and a young history student named Kivrin is preparing to do an on site study of the turbulent fourteenth century. Her mission has placed two of the University's professors at cross purposes, as the proponent for this study, Mr. Gilchrist, finds himself pitted against Mr. Dunworthy, Kivrin's mentor, who believes that this trip in time is far too dangerous. Mr. Gilchrist, however, is in the position to have the final say on the project.<br /><br />Kivrin is scheduled to land in the rural English countryside of the fourteenth century some twenty years before the Black Death savages England. Armed with the knowledge of fourteenth century customs, dress, languages, religious practices, and history, Kivrin is raring to go back in time. When she travels back, however, an unforeseen crisis in the present places Kivrin in a potentially deadly situation upon her arrival in the past.<br /><br />The book alternates between what is happening in the present and what is happening in the past, as those in the present work to unravel the mystery of what went wrong. Meanwhile, Kivrin struggles to overcome the anomalous situations she encounters that run contra to her expectations. Believing herself stranded in the past, Kivrin artfully maneuvers around the precarious situations in which she finds herself, never losing her humanity despite the horror of her situation, given what went wrong.<br /><br />Steeped in well-researched medieval life, it is the story of Kivrin's sojourn in the past that captures the imagination of the reader. This is a stunning book that is totally gripping. The spellbound reader will definitely keep turning the pages of this wonderful book, which is clearly written by a master storyteller. Bravo!pping. The spellbound reader will definitely keep turning the pages of this wonderful book, which is clearly written by a master storyteller. Bravo!	2005-07-21
154737:US	49355567	R3JO9FSJJRAECM	1587249057	412606618	The Good Earth	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A PULITZER PRIZE WINNING MASTERPIECE...	This 1932 Pulitzer Prize winning novel is still a standout today. Deceptive in its simplicity, it is a story built around a flawed human being and a teetering socio-economic system, as well as one that is layered with profound themes. The cadence of the author's writing is also of note, as it rhythmically lends itself to the telling of the story, giving it a very distinct voice. No doubt the author's writing style was influenced by her own immersion in Chinese culture, as she grew up and lived in China, the daughter of missionaries.<br /><br />This is the story of the cyclical nature of life, of the passions and desires that motivate a human being, of good and evil, and of the desire to survive and thrive against great odds. It begins with the story of an illiterate, poor, peasant farmer, Wang Lung, who ventures from the rural countryside and goes to town to the great house of Hwang to obtain a bride from those among the rank of slave. There, he is given the slave O-lan as his bride.<br /><br />Selfless, hardworking, and a bearer of sons, the plain-faced O-lan supports Wang Lung's veneration of the land and his desire to acquire more land. She stays with him through thick and thin, through famine and very lean times, working alongside him on the land, making great sacrifices, and raising his children. As a family, they weather the tumultuousness of pre-revolutionary China in the 1920s, only to find themselves the recipient of riches beyond their dreams. At the first opportunity, they buy land from the great house of Hwang, whose expenses appear to be exceeding their income.<br /><br />With the passing of time, Wang Lung buys more and more land from the house of Hwang, until he owns it all, as his veneration of the land is always paramount. With O-lan at this side, his family continues to prosper. His life becomes more complicated, however, the richer he gets. Wang Lung then commits a life-changing act that pierces O-lan's heart in the most profoundly heartbreaking way.<br /><br />As the years pass, his sons become educated and literate, and the family continues to prosper. With the great house of Hwang on the skids, an opportunity to buy their house, the very same house from where he had fetched O-lan many years ago, becomes available. Pressed upon to buy that house by his sons, who do not share Wang Lung's veneration for the land and rural life, he buys the house. The country mice now have become city mice.<br /><br />This is a potent, thematically complex story, brimming with irony, yet simply told against a framework of mounting social change. It is a story that stands as a parable in many ways and is one that certainly should be read. It illustrates the timeless dichotomy between the young and the old, the old and the new, and the rich and the poor. It is no wonder that this beautifully written book won a Pulitzer Prize and is considered a classic masterpiece. Bravo!ay.<br /><br />As the years pass, his sons become educated and literate, and the family continues to prosper. With the great house of Hwang on the skids, an opportunity to buy their house, the very same house from where he had fetched O-lan many years ago, becomes available. Pressed upon to buy that house by his sons, who do not share Wang Lung's veneration for the land and rural life, he buys the house. The country mice now have become city mice.<br /><br />This is a potent, thematically complex story, brimming with irony, yet simply told against a framework of mounting social change. It is a story that stands as a parable in many ways and is one that certainly should be read. It illustrates the timeless dichotomy between the young and the old, the old and the new, and the rich and the poor. It is no wonder that this beautifully written book won a Pulitzer Prize and is considered a classic masterpiece. Bravo!	2005-07-21
154874:US	49355567	R21BYE8GD6S8B1	0848806360	170429737	Ordeal by Hunger	Books	4	0	0	N	N	THE DONNER PARTY TRAGEDY...	This book presents an account of the Donner Party, a wagon train of about eighty-seven people who in July 1846 started off for California via a new, untried route through the Sierras. Unfortunately, this particular wagon train of pioneers would go down in history due to the horror and tragedy that it was to meet along its way. Stranded in the Sierras amidst its harshest winter in years, with unparalleled snowfall and frigid temperatures, only little more than half, mostly women and children, were to survive their unbelievable deprivation and suffering.<br /><br />This wagon train was a loose confederation of strangers who originally were part of another wagon train, but who collectively branched off by consensus to try a new, though untried and unproven, overland route through the Sierras that was alleged to be shorter. Their decision to take this new route was one that would haunt them for the rest of their journey, as it was not what it was purported to be. The inexperience of these travelers, the poor decisions that were sometimes made, and their seeming inability to truly unify as one entity contributed to their ultimate debacle. They were, after all, representative of humanity at large. Some of them were good, brave, and unselfish. Some were people with whom one would not wish to shake hands.<br /><br />Beleaguered by thirst as they trekked across a desert, marauded by Indians along the way, plagued by the loss of necessary oxen and cattle, beset by accidents and personal squabbles that would sometimes turn deadly, they would finally reach the Sierras and begin their perilous crossing, only to find themselves snowbound at the summit while within sight of the pass that they needed to cross to be home free. Trapped by the weather in early November, they would set up a make-shift camp, never thinking about just how long their encampment would last. With minimal food supplies at their disposal, these intrepid, westward-ho emigrants would find themselves trapped for months, facing incredible hardships that would tax them beyond human endurance. Some would resort to cannibalism in order to survive.<br /><br />This is a riveting story about survival of the fittest, about personal sacrifice, and human foibles. It is a story not only of those ill-fated pioneers but also of those who would attempt to rescue them, often at great personal cost. It is a story that reflects the human spirit, both good and bad, in time of crisis. It is a story of often selfless heroism. It is also a story of greed and craven opportunism. While some of the book is politically incorrect, it is reflective of the times in which these pioneers lived, as well as that of when this book was first written.<br /><br />It is, however, remiss that the maps included in this book do little to illustrate the deadly journey undertaken by these pioneers. Still, the lack of comprehensive maps does not unduly detract from the powerful impact that this story has on the reader. Moreover, although the book was published in 1936, the author, a trained historian, added a supplement in 1960, which is included in this edition of his book. This supplement serves to correct errors, as well as incorporate additional relevant material not available at the time of original publication.<br /><br />Those who enjoy tales of survival will, undoubtedly, find this gripping tale well worth reading.months, facing incredible hardships that would tax them beyond human endurance. Some would resort to cannibalism in order to survive.<br /><br />This is a riveting story about survival of the fittest, about personal sacrifice, and human foibles. It is a story not only of those ill-fated pioneers but also of those who would attempt to rescue them, often at great personal cost. It is a story that reflects the human spirit, both good and bad, in time of crisis. It is a story of often selfless heroism. It is also a story of greed and craven opportunism. While some of the book is politically incorrect, it is reflective of the times in which these pioneers lived, as well as that of when this book was first written.<br /><br />It is, however, remiss that the maps included in this book do little to illustrate the deadly journey undertaken by these pioneers. Still, the lack of comprehensive maps does not unduly detract from the powerful impact that this story has on the reader. Moreover, although the book was published in 1936, the author, a trained historian, added a supplement in 1960, which is included in this edition of his book. This supplement serves to correct errors, as well as incorporate additional relevant material not available at the time of original publication.<br /><br />Those who enjoy tales of survival will, undoubtedly, find this gripping tale well worth reading.	2005-07-21
155567:US	49355567	R1IF7D8UTZOHXT	0743487699	584095688	My Antonia (Enriched Classics (Pocket))	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A TIMELESS CLASSIC...	I first read this book when I was in junior high school. I admit that, at the time, I did not appreciate the strengths of the book and the quality of its writing. I am quite glad that I decided to give it another chance, as, having re-read it,  I now understand why it is considered to be a classic in literature. It is simply a beautifully written book, covering many of the themes that one stumbles across in life and coalescing them into a work of extraordinary breadth.<br /><br />The book is the story of two young people, Jim Burden and Antonia Shimerda. They meet for the first time when Jim is ten years old and Antonia is fourteen. Recently orphaned, Jim has moved to the Great Prairie to live with his grandparents in Nebraska. Antonia, on the other hand, has been wrenched from her homeland in Bohemia, emigrating with her parents to the United States and finding herself in Nebraska. Jim and Antonia's chance encounter on a train sets the stage for the forging of a friendship and unconditional love that time will not diminish.<br /><br />The book relates the harshness of immigrant life through the eyes of Jim, who narrates the events contained in the book. There is a relentless stoicism about the book, which is written in spare, clear prose. With intense imagery and descriptive exactitude, late nineteenth century Nebraska comes to life. It also relates the paths that each of the characters choose to follow, as well as the vicissitudes of life that mold and shape them in ways that no one would have imagined.<br /><br />The focus of the book, which is also a coming of age tale, seems to be on the female characters and their strengths. All the women in it seem to be survivors, despite the hardships that they encounter. This is, without a doubt, a life affirming book, wrought with great feeling and a decided sense of time and place. Yet, despite its poignancy, the book is surprisingly unsentimental and straightforward. It is a testament to the author's literary talent that this book has emerged as a timeless classic. Bravo!t this book has emerged as a timeless classic. Bravo!	2005-07-21
155641:US	49355567	R2S5ABRERI27TG	8426412696	459668544	El Chico (Spanish Edition)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	DARK...DISTURBING...DEPRESSING...	This book is the Spanish text edition of \\"The Boy\\", a psychological foray that is a dark and gritty look into the face of consummate evil, whose countenance is that of a mere boy. Known by different names to those with whom he comes in contact, little good follows those who form a relationship with him. The boy, who has the face of an angel, has a soul rife with corruption. He is a natural predator who ingratiates himself into the lives of others, then seeks to discover their psychic needs in order to know what  buttons to push in order to get others to do what he secretly wants them to do.<br /><br />Machiavellian in the extreme, no good comes of what the boy  wants, as his intention to inflict the maximum psychic pain that he can on those who would seek to befriend him. Chameleon-like, he is known by different names.  To Sean Hennessy, who was once his foster father,  the boy was known as Durwood. Now, Sean is desperately looking for the boy, as he believes that the boy will provide answers for the tragedy that enveloped Sean's family.<br /><br />This is a moody and dark book. There is nothing uplifting about it. Tense and disquieting throughout, at times I found it somewhat repetitive. At other times, it seemed to drag. As a debut novel, it shows that the author has potential, as he is clearly  master of  the written word, the writing sometimes waxing positively poetic. Yet, there is something disturbing about the author's vision of redemption for one's sins. The book is too dark by far for me. Still, it is certainly a promise of things to come.	2005-07-21
155643:US	49355567	R2SU48VQK3KB0O	0194228371	651296590	Cold Comfort Farm (Oxford Bookworms Black)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	SOMETHING NASTY HAPPENED IN THE WOODSHED...	Published in 1932, this novel is a hysterically funny, tongue in cheek parody of the heavy handed, gloomy novels of some early twentieth century English writers who had previously been so popular. Tremendously successful when first published, \\"Cold Comfort Farm\\" caused quite a stir in its time.<br /><br />The novel starts out innocuously enough, when well-educated Flora Poste finds herself orphaned at the age of twenty. Discovering that her father was not the wealthy man she believed him to be, she is resigned to the fate of having to live on a hundred pounds a year. Opting to live with relatives, rather than earn her bread, she seeks out a most unlikely set of relations, the odd Starkadder family who live in Howling, Sussex.<br /><br />Therein begins what is certainly one of the funniest novels ever written. When Flora arrives in Howling, she meets her odd relatives, who live in neglected, ramshackle \\"Cold Comfort Farm\\", where they still wash the dishes with twigs, and have cows named Graceless, Pointless, Feckless, and Aimless. Headed by a seventy-nine year old matriarch, Flora's aunt, Ada Doom Starkadder, who has not been right in the head since she \\"saw something nasty happen in the woodshed\\" nearly seventy years ago, they are a motley and strange crew indeed. Confronted with their dismal and gloomy existence, Flora sets about trying to put things to right.<br /><br />Peppered with eccentric, memorable characters, this book will take the reader on a journey not easily forgotten. It is one that is sure to make the reader revisit this novel yet again, like an old friend who is missed too soon.	2005-07-21
162088:US	49355567	RC5GTUIOOM9VU	0743492609	277827243	The Painted Kiss: A Novel	Books	4	10	12	N	N	A PROMISING DEBUT NOVEL...	This is an ambitious novel by its first time author. The focal point of the book is the relationship between noted Austrian painter, Gustav Klimt, and Emilie Floge, mistress of an exclusive fashion salon in fin de siecle Vienna. This is a woman whose name would be upon his lips when Klimt died. Who was she, and what was their relationship?<br /><br />As there is little known in the historical record about the relationship between Gustav Klimt and Emilie Floge, the author was free to let her imagination wander. Told as a first person narrative by Emilie Floge, the book reveals a relationship that would encompass many years, many events, and many changes. Having first met Gustav Klimt when she was a twelve year old girl, and he was but a penniless, nearly starving, artist, she becomes his pupil. As he instructs this young girl in the fundamentals of drawing, a certain undeniable attraction exists. She is fascinated by him, and he eventually notices the nubile young girl that she is. Under his tutelage, our bourgeois young lady glimpses the world of the demi-monde, a world where artists' models and artists would bypass the mores of accepted society.<br /><br />Theirs was a relationship that would span his lifetime until his death at the age of fifty-six. Yet, theirs was not to be the passion of great lovers. Their relationship, at least in the imaginings of the author, was more one of intimate friendship. Through the eyes of Emilie Floge, the reader sees the accession of Gustav Klimt into the highest rungs of Viennese society, a sought after, though somewhat controversial, artist and lover. He, in turn, becomes Emilie's patron, assisting her with the establishment of her haute couture salon, where she would dress the wealthy women who sought out Gustav Klimt in hopes of becoming his mistress. That position was one that Emilie herself had considered but eschewed in the final analysis. The author conveys a certain feeling of melancholy between the two protagonists, who are bound together by something stronger than a fleeting passion. In the end, Emilie became something even more important to Gustav Klimt. She became his muse.<br /><br />This is a fairly well-written, introspective work of historical fiction that occasionally lacks substance. At times, it feels as superficial as the society about which the author writes. The author, however, intersperses commentary on some of Gustav Klimt's paintings. These are paintings that bear some relation to Emilie's narrative, and the use of this commentary is an interesting literary contrivance. So, there is much to enjoy in this novel, and I look forward to this promising author's next book. Should anyone wonder what Emilie Floge looked like, one need only look at the beautiful cover art of the book. Gracing the cover is a painting by Gustav Klimt of the lovely Emilie Floge.re bound together by something stronger than a fleeting passion. In the end, Emilie became something even more important to Gustav Klimt. She became his muse.<br /><br />This is a fairly well-written, introspective work of historical fiction that occasionally lacks substance. At times, it feels as superficial as the society about which the author writes. The author, however, intersperses commentary on some of Gustav Klimt's paintings. These are paintings that bear some relation to Emilie's narrative, and the use of this commentary is an interesting literary contrivance. So, there is much to enjoy in this novel, and I look forward to this promising author's next book. Should anyone wonder what Emilie Floge looked like, one need only look at the beautiful cover art of the book. Gracing the cover is a painting by Gustav Klimt of the lovely Emilie Floge.	2005-07-17
163701:US	49355567	R2PJT63IUB8K3S	158648303X	138356146	Auschwitz: A New History	Books	5	63	66	N	N	SIMPLY BRILLIANT...	When one thinks of the labor and death camps instituted by the Nazis during World War II, the notorious concentration camp at Auschwitz comes immediately to mind. One cannot help but wonder what kind of mindset would devise such an infamy. How could Germany, a nation that was noted for its richness of  culture, have devised a plan of genocide that was so far reaching and so inherently evil?<br /><br />The author attempts to answer that question and succeeds in doing so brilliantly. This is a very well-written book that will appeal to those who are interested in the general human condition, as well as those interested in the holocaust itself.  It is scholarly, yet, at the same time, immensely readable. This is because the author has put a very human face on the dreaded death camp of Auschwitz. The stories and experiences of more than a hundred people are integrated  throughout the narrative, which delves into the historical backdrop of the Nazi political machinery and its leadership. Survivors of Auschwitz, as well as Nazi perpetrators, tell of their experiences in the hell that was known as Auschwitz, and they tell it from their own unique perspectives. The symbiosis that often existed between prisoner and prison guard is quite unsettling, as are the attendant moral and ethical issues.<br /><br />The author attempts to help the reader understand how it was that the \\"final solution\\" came about. It is an unsentimental, intellectually objective, critical analysis of one of the most infamous episodes in modern history and warfare. The author carefully delineates how the Nazis developed their reprehensible strategy for global genocide, and how it came about being implemented.  The creation of Auschwitz was crucial to the Nazis' desire to rid itself of Europe's Jewish population but, however, that desire may not have been entirely ideologically driven. From his extensive research, the author postulates that there may have been a practical, more pragmatic component that dictated  the actions of the Nazis in the final, waning days of World War II that was no less immoral than the ideological one.<br /><br />This is simply a stunning and authoritative book by an author whose expertise in this area is undeniable.  It is a comprehensive and insightful look at  one of the most notorious death camps in the history of Nazi Germany. The author carefully explains the rise and fall of Auschwitz within the context of the Nazi mentality and ideology, as well as within the broader context of historical and military pragmatism. It is a devastating portrait, indeed, and with its sixteen pages of vintage black and white photographs, it is a book that will keep the reader riveted to its pages until the very last one is turned. Bravo!ctated  the actions of the Nazis in the final, waning days of World War II that was no less immoral than the ideological one.<br /><br />This is simply a stunning and authoritative book by an author whose expertise in this area is undeniable.  It is a comprehensive and insightful look at  one of the most notorious death camps in the history of Nazi Germany. The author carefully explains the rise and fall of Auschwitz within the context of the Nazi mentality and ideology, as well as within the broader context of historical and military pragmatism. It is a devastating portrait, indeed, and with its sixteen pages of vintage black and white photographs, it is a book that will keep the reader riveted to its pages until the very last one is turned. Bravo!	2005-07-16
185474:US	49355567	R14VXMSCC2PO4G	B0007HKKQK	221785728	I survived Hitler's ovens: The story of Auschwitz ([Vintage Avon)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	AN AUSCHWITZ SURVIVOR REMEMBERS...	This is the story of a woman who spent about seven months in Auschwitz and survived to tell the tale. She wrote this book, which was later released under the less lurid and now better known title, \\"Five Chimneys\\", shortly after her ordeal, while her horrific experience was still fresh in her mind. It was definitely a mind numbing, life changing experience, as it saw the loss of her entire family, her parents, her children, and her husband. It should be noted that none of them, including Olga, were Jews.<br /><br />Olga Lengyel lived an upper-middle class existence in Transylvania, in the capital city of Cluj. Her husband, Dr. Miklos Lengyel, was a Berlin trained medical doctor and the director of a private hospital that he had built shortly before the onset of World War II. Olga had also studied medicine and was qualified to be a surgical assistant. She and her husband had two young sons. They were all surviving the war as best they could, with Germans an occupying force. They even had a German soldier billeted with them for a time.<br /><br />Olga had begun to hear disturbing things about what the Germans were doing in occupied territories, but had discounted it. She felt that Germany, a country that had contributed so much culturally to the world, could not be culpable of some of the atrocities of which she was hearing. She felt the stories that she was hearing were too fantastical to be believable. Then her husband came under the cross-hairs of the Nazis, accused of having his hospital boycott pharmaceuticals made by the German Bayer Company. This was the beginning of the end for the Lengyel family. Shortly thereafter in May of 1944, he was ordered to be deported to Germany.<br /><br />When Olga heard this, she insisted on accompanying her husband, as she thought that he would be put to work in a German hospital. She naively asked the Nazis if she could accompany her husband, and they had no objection. When her parents heard, they insisted on going with them, which meant that Olga's young sons would also be going. Once they got to the train station and saw that they were all to board a cattle car with ninety-six other people, they knew that their nightmare was just beginning. Their destination was Birkenau-Auschwitz.<br /><br />Olga recounts the horrors that awaited her family there. Hers is a testament to the brutality of the Nazi regime towards Jews and non-Jews alike. In it Olga chronicles her first hand observations of Dr, Joseph Mengele and his passion for twins and dwarfs, as well as his mad scientist medical experiments. She recalls her run ins with the \\"blonde angel\\", the exceptionally beautiful and sadistic Nazi, Irma Griese. She talks about the selections that were made, which determined who lived and who died. She makes it clear that the Jews were targeted, first and foremost, for extermination. She recounts the utter depravity with which the inmates of the camp were treated, creating a veritable hell on earth.<br /><br />Ms. Lengyel gives a no-holds-barred account of life at one of the most notorious concentration camps run by the Nazis. She affirms that the chimneys of its crematoriums appeared to be burning night and day towards the end of the war in a last ditch effort to complete its mission. While her chronicle might have benefited from some better or more careful editing, this is a minor criticism, as hers is a powerful voice in the arena of holocaust literature. It is a book that should be read by those who are interested in learning more about these concentration camps and about man's inhumanity to man.ch meant that Olga's young sons would also be going. Once they got to the train station and saw that they were all to board a cattle car with ninety-six other people, they knew that their nightmare was just beginning. Their destination was Birkenau-Auschwitz.<br /><br />Olga recounts the horrors that awaited her family there. Hers is a testament to the brutality of the Nazi regime towards Jews and non-Jews alike. In it Olga chronicles her first hand observations of Dr, Joseph Mengele and his passion for twins and dwarfs, as well as his mad scientist medical experiments. She recalls her run ins with the \\"blonde angel\\", the exceptionally beautiful and sadistic Nazi, Irma Griese. She talks about the selections that were made, which determined who lived and who died. She makes it clear that the Jews were targeted, first and foremost, for extermination. She recounts the utter depravity with which the inmates of the camp were treated, creating a veritable hell on earth.<br /><br />Ms. Lengyel gives a no-holds-barred account of life at one of the most notorious concentration camps run by the Nazis. She affirms that the chimneys of its crematoriums appeared to be burning night and day towards the end of the war in a last ditch effort to complete its mission. While her chronicle might have benefited from some better or more careful editing, this is a minor criticism, as hers is a powerful voice in the arena of holocaust literature. It is a book that should be read by those who are interested in learning more about these concentration camps and about man's inhumanity to man.	2005-06-30
187771:US	49355567	R1CNZ8A36N3HDO	0739413163	652993826	Stranger Beside Me: Ted Bundy	Books	5	2	2	N	N	THE KILLER BESIDE ME...	This is an excellent true crime book. It has an unusual twist in that the author and the subject of the book, serial killer Ted Bundy, had a platonic relationship that arose from the time they were co-workers for a Seattle, Washington crisis center. Quite frankly, the author initially had no idea that Ted Bundy was anything other than what he appeared to be: a handsome, intelligent, charismatic, and articulate young man, who was, at the time, involved in local politics and later became a law student.<br /><br />When he became the suspect in the disappearance and murders of a number of very young, pretty women, the author was in total disbelief. As the evidence mounted against her friend, the author, who is a former police officer, could not shut her eyes to the reality that Ted Bundy was actually a very disturbed individual who was guilty of all of which he was accused and probably guilty of other such crimes for which he was not accused for evidentiary reasons. Consequently, the author would suffer some angst for many years, as she struggled to reconcile the Ted Bundy that she thought she knew with the fiend who was compelled to commit so many vicious abductions, assaults, and murders. It is believed that at least thirty-five young women, and probably a good number more, died at the hands of Ted Bundy.<br /><br />The author details the abductions, assaults, and murders of his victims from coast to coast, which crimes were ultimately to make Ted Bundy a nationwide household name, and an entity to be feared. The investigative efforts of law enforcement officers in the states of Washington, Utah, Colorado, and Florida are revealed, as are Ted Bundy's arrests and his trials. She also details his two escapes from custody in Colorado, the last of which would find him heading to the sunshine state of Florida.<br /><br />Florida was an interesting choice of state for Ted Bundy, as it is a death penalty state in which convicted felons, who have been given the death penalty, are actually executed. Notwithstanding Florida's stance on capital crime, Ted Bundy went on to commit a slew of shocking assaults and murders in Florida for which he was ultimately arrested, tried, and convicted. Considering the fact that Ted Bundy could have chosen to relocate to a state other than Florida after his last escape from custody in Colorado, it almost appears as if he had a death wish by going to Florida and continuing to give in to his sick compulsion. Unfortunately for him, Florida was quite happy to make his wish come true, and on January 24, 1989, Ted Bundy was executed, and his reign of terror was finally over.<br /><br />Those who like the true crime genre will enjoy this well-written and well-researched book. It is highly detailed and contains a great deal of information, some of it quite personal due to the author's relationship with Ted Bundy. She paints a very intriguing, intimate portrait of him, one that is three dimensional and complex. He was definitely a man whose benign and compelling external visage was at odds with his many internal demons, as he was a prolific serial killer. Externally, Ted Bundy was the sort of man towards whom women gravitated, and there was no dearth of Ted Bundy groupies once he made headlines.<br /><br />The interested readers should consider buying the twentieth anniversary edition of this book, rather than any of the older editions. The anniversary edition contains updates of the Ted Bundy story in which the author theorizes as to why Ted Bundy, a young man of so much promise, would end up the way that he did, and she provides some interesting and personal familial information from which the reader may draw his or her own conclusion. All in all, aficionados of the true crime genre will find much of interest in this book.are actually executed. Notwithstanding Florida's stance on capital crime, Ted Bundy went on to commit a slew of shocking assaults and murders in Florida for which he was ultimately arrested, tried, and convicted. Considering the fact that Ted Bundy could have chosen to relocate to a state other than Florida after his last escape from custody in Colorado, it almost appears as if he had a death wish by going to Florida and continuing to give in to his sick compulsion. Unfortunately for him, Florida was quite happy to make his wish come true, and on January 24, 1989, Ted Bundy was executed, and his reign of terror was finally over.<br /><br />Those who like the true crime genre will enjoy this well-written and well-researched book. It is highly detailed and contains a great deal of information, some of it quite personal due to the author's relationship with Ted Bundy. She paints a very intriguing, intimate portrait of him, one that is three dimensional and complex. He was definitely a man whose benign and compelling external visage was at odds with his many internal demons, as he was a prolific serial killer. Externally, Ted Bundy was the sort of man towards whom women gravitated, and there was no dearth of Ted Bundy groupies once he made headlines.<br /><br />The interested readers should consider buying the twentieth anniversary edition of this book, rather than any of the older editions. The anniversary edition contains updates of the Ted Bundy story in which the author theorizes as to why Ted Bundy, a young man of so much promise, would end up the way that he did, and she provides some interesting and personal familial information from which the reader may draw his or her own conclusion. All in all, aficionados of the true crime genre will find much of interest in this book.	2005-06-28
190501:US	49355567	R2IKQDB3569XYZ	1419135937	584095688	My Antonia	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A TIMELESS CLASSIC...	I first read this book when I was in junior high school. I admit that, at the time, I did not appreciate the strengths of the book and the quality of its writing. I am quite glad that I decided to give it another chance, as I now understand why it is considered to be a classic in literature. It is simply a beautifully written book, covering many of the themes that one stumbles across in life and coalescing them into a work of extraordinary breadth.<br /><br />The book is the story of two young people, Jim Burden and Antonia Shimerda. They meet for the first time when Jim is ten years old and Antonia is fourteen. Recently orphaned, Jim has moved to the Great Prairie to live with his grandparents in Nebraska. Antonia, on the other hand, has been wrenched from her homeland in Bohemia, emigrating with her parents to the United States and finding herself in Nebraska. Jim and Antonia's chance encounter on a train sets the stage for the forging of a friendship and unconditional love that time will not diminish.<br /><br />The book relates the harshness of immigrant life through the eyes of Jim, who narrates the events contained in the book. There is a relentless stoicism about the book, which is written in spare, clear prose. With intense imagery and descriptive exactitude, late nineteenth century Nebraska comes to life. It also relates the paths that each of the characters choose to follow, as well as the vicissitudes of life that mold and shape them in ways that no one would have imagined.<br /><br />The focus of the book, which is also a coming of age tale, seems to be on the female characters and their strengths. Consequently, the book has a faintly feminist undercurrent to it, as all the women in it seem to be survivors, despite the hardships that they encounter. This is, without a doubt, a life affirming book, wrought with great feeling and a decided sense of time and place. Yet, despite its poignancy, the book is surprisingly unsentimental and straightforward. It is a testament to the author's literary talent that this book has emerged as a timeless classic. Bravo!a testament to the author's literary talent that this book has emerged as a timeless classic. Bravo!	2005-06-26
190537:US	49355567	R3U1OLLJTE1SPW	1416500189	412606618	The Good Earth (Enriched Classics)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	A PROFOUND STORY SIMPLY TOLD...	This 1932 Pulitzer Prize winning novel is still a standout today. Deceptive in its simplicity, it is a story built around a flawed human being and a teetering socio-economic system, as well as one that is layered with profound themes. The cadence of the author's writing is also of note, as it rhythmically lends itself to the telling of the story, giving it a very distinct voice. No doubt the author's writing style was influenced by her own immersion in Chinese culture, as she grew up and lived in China, the daughter of missionaries.<br /><br />This is the story of the cyclical nature of life, of the passions and desires that motivate a human being, of good and evil, and of the desire to survive and thrive against great odds. It begins with the story of an illiterate, poor, peasant farmer, Wang Lung, who ventures from the rural countryside and goes to town to the great house of Hwang to obtain a bride from those among the rank of slave. There, he is given the slave O-lan as his bride.<br /><br />Selfless, hardworking, and a bearer of sons, the plain-faced O-lan supports Wang Lung's veneration of the land and his desire to acquire more land. She stays with him through thick and thin, through famine and very lean times, working alongside him on the land, making great sacrifices, and raising his children. As a family, they weather the tumultuousness of pre-revolutionary China in the 1920s, only to find themselves the recipient of riches beyond their dreams. At the first opportunity, they buy land from the great house of Hwang, whose expenses appear to be exceeding their income.<br /><br />With the passing of time, Wang Lung buys more and more land from the house of Hwang, until he owns it all, as his veneration of the land is always paramount. With O-lan at this side, his family continues to prosper. His life becomes more complicated, however, the richer he gets. Wang Lung then commits a life-changing act that pierces O-lan's heart in the most profoundly heartbreaking way.<br /><br />As the years pass, his sons become educated and literate, and the family continues to prosper. With the great house of Hwang on the skids, an opportunity to buy their house, the very same house from where he had fetched O-lan many years ago, becomes available. Pressed upon to buy that house by his sons, who do not share Wang Lung's veneration for the land and rural life, he buys the house. The country mice now have become city mice.<br /><br />This is a potent, thematically complex story, brimming with irony, yet simply told against a framework of mounting social change. It is a story that stands as a parable in many ways and is one that certainly should be read. It illustrates the timeless dichotomy between the young and the old, the old and the new, and the rich and the poor. It is no wonder that this beautifully written book won a Pulitzer Prize and is considered a classic masterpiece. Bravo!ay.<br /><br />As the years pass, his sons become educated and literate, and the family continues to prosper. With the great house of Hwang on the skids, an opportunity to buy their house, the very same house from where he had fetched O-lan many years ago, becomes available. Pressed upon to buy that house by his sons, who do not share Wang Lung's veneration for the land and rural life, he buys the house. The country mice now have become city mice.<br /><br />This is a potent, thematically complex story, brimming with irony, yet simply told against a framework of mounting social change. It is a story that stands as a parable in many ways and is one that certainly should be read. It illustrates the timeless dichotomy between the young and the old, the old and the new, and the rich and the poor. It is no wonder that this beautifully written book won a Pulitzer Prize and is considered a classic masterpiece. Bravo!	2005-06-26
191029:US	49355567	R3IEEPL29O3582	B0007G5UIO	59773996	The daughter of time	Books	5	0	0	N	N	THERE IS MORE TO THIS THAN MEETS THE EYE...	This is a wonderful genre bending book...part mystery, part history. Written by Scotswoman Elizabeth MacIntosh, who wrote under the pen name Josephine Tey, it was first published in 1951. It is tragic that the author died in 1952 and was never to know the pleasure that this book would bring to generations of readers and that the Mystery Writers of America would ultimately rank it fourth among the one hundred best mysteries ever written.<br /><br />The title of the book is derived from a historical source, as it is attributable to Sir Francis Bacon, \\"For truth is rightly named after the daughter of time, and not of authority.\\" The book itself is not a traditional mystery but rather an application of deductive reasoning to an actual historical event. The event in question is the murder of the princes in the tower, sons of King Edward IV, allegedly by their uncle, Richard III, who eventually usurped the English throne after the death of his brother. It has been widely held that Richard III did, indeed, murder the two young princes, his nephews, in order to secure his claim to the throne.<br /><br />The reader is introduced to Scotland Yard Inspector Alan Grant, who is hospitalized and recovering from injuries sustained in the line of duty. While convalescing, he becomes intrigued by a picture of a portrait of Richard III, a likeness with which he is unfamiliar. Grant is puzzled that someone with such a sensitive face could have been such a monster as to murder his two nephews in cold blood. So, our intrepid Inspector decides that he will reconsider the evidence upon which such a dastardly assumption has been based. With the help of an American researcher doing the necessary legwork, Grant compiles enough archival historical fact that incrementally helps him formulate a new theory as to who actually may have murdered the princes in the tower.<br /><br />This analysis and reformulation is done as though it were being argued to a jury. Indeed, so persuasive is Inspector Grant through the application of some insightful deductive reasoning and clever dialogue that the reader comes away thinking that Grant has solved one of the most intriguing historical mysteries of all time. This is certainly an unusual book conceptually but one that succeeds brilliantly. It should appeal to those readers who enjoy having a mystery unraveled, as well as to those who harbor a love of English history. Bravo!rant through the application of some insightful deductive reasoning and clever dialogue that the reader comes away thinking that Grant has solved one of the most intriguing historical mysteries of all time. This is certainly an unusual book conceptually but one that succeeds brilliantly. It should appeal to those readers who enjoy having a mystery unraveled, as well as to those who harbor a love of English history. Bravo!	2005-06-26
193474:US	49355567	R2SGIZKHLXMWXU	B0002X7W10	730101042	The Story of Lucy Gault	Books	5	16	21	N	Y	LIVES OF QUIET DESPERATION...	This is a beautifully written book, rife with emotion and feeling. It is a book that will keep the reader riveted to its pages until the very last one is turned, so absorbing is the story. It is, as the title of the book says, the story of one Lucy Gault. Her story begins in Ireland in 1921, in the shadow of the Partition of Ireland. Feelings against the English and Protestants were running high, and many of the manorial estates were being targeted for destruction by the local Catholic peasantry in that time of unrest.<br /><br />The Gault family lived in a lovely ancestral home, Lahardane, tucked away in the remote Irish countryside.  Captain Everard Gault, Lucy's father, though Irish, was Protestant and  had served in the English Army. He was married to Heloise, an English woman.  These facts had evidently not gone unnoticed by the local yokels. When the Gaults find that their home has been targeted for destruction and the threat of arson is all too real, the Gaults reluctantly decide to leave their beloved home in the care of their two faithful family retainers and relocate to England for safety's sake. This is a decision that leaves their nine year old daughter, Lucy, heartbroken.<br /><br />Lucy is loath to leave her beloved  home with its resplendent land, rolling acres of lush greenery, as well as its lovely beach, and a beloved dog for which her feelings run deep. Lahardane is, indeed, a child's paradise. Just before they are due to leave, a distraught Lucy, desperate to change the way things are going, decides to run away in hopes of having her parents see things her way. Instead, what occurs is a tragedy of epic proportions, one that would have far reaching ramifications, changing the lives of many. It would certainly impact profoundly upon Lucy.<br /><br />This is truly a gloriously written, thematically complex book in which the author examines the way that love and calamity can shape destiny. Its complexity is belied by its simple, yet rich and lyrical, prose. The author lovingly tenders the delicately nuanced words that express the strong undercurrent of emotion that ripples beneath the  surface of this haunting novel, drawing  the reader into its heartbreaking story of love, forgiveness, and redemption. The fatalism of its characters aptly mirrors the historical fatalism of the Irish. This is a literary gem that the reader will, undoubtedly, read in one sitting, as I did, loath to break the careful cadence of the words that tell so compelling a story. Bravo!prose. The author lovingly tenders the delicately nuanced words that express the strong undercurrent of emotion that ripples beneath the  surface of this haunting novel, drawing  the reader into its heartbreaking story of love, forgiveness, and redemption. The fatalism of its characters aptly mirrors the historical fatalism of the Irish. This is a literary gem that the reader will, undoubtedly, read in one sitting, as I did, loath to break the careful cadence of the words that tell so compelling a story. Bravo!	2005-06-23
199628:US	49355567	R52H3MK5TXPRJ	0312331916	959762349	The Illuminator	Books	4	73	83	N	N	A MEMORABLE DEBUT NOVEL...	This is a well-researched work of historical fiction that captures the essence of medieval life in feudal England. It is set against the precarious political and religious philosophical backdrop of the turbulent fourteenth century. It is a time when life was cheap, and death always seemed to be just around the corner. It tells the story of two people whose paths cross in the latter half of fourteenth century England and the events that follow. The politics of the day, both the religious and  secular ones, would leave their imprint on each of them, as well as on their progeny.<br /><br />Lady Kathryn, having been locked in a loveless marriage, has recently been liberated by her dissolute husband's death. In a time when women were little more than chattel, she has been left as mistress of Blackingham Manor in East Anglia. She is trying to shepherd it along, as it is the inheritance of her fifteen-year-old twin sons, Alfred and Colin. She is fraught with concerns over money and the possibility that John of Gaunt, the Duke of Lancaster with whom her late husband imprudently allied himself, and who was now Regent to the young King Richard, might not maintain his power for long. If so, the fact that he is a patron of the heretic John Wycliffe and his Lollard followers could prove to be potentially disastrous for her and her family.<br /><br />In order to try to conserve her property, as she fears that it will be swallowed up by the King's taxes, as well as the seemingly endless tithes required by the church, Lady Kathryn agrees to take in a boarder at the local abbot's request. In addition to conserving her property, she is also trying to keep at bay the unwelcome advances of Sir Guy, the local sheriff and friend of her late, unlamented  husband, as well as the owner of the property adjacent to Blackingham Manor. She knows full well that she would just be the means to acquiring Blackingham Manor and increasing his holdings.<br /><br />The boarder in question is an artisan named Finn, who has with him a beautiful teenage daughter named Rose. Together they take refuge at Blackingham Manor. Finn is a master illuminator who works for the Church. While working for the Church, however, he labors in secret for the heretic John Wycliffe, illuminating an English translation of the Bible, something that is forbidden by the Church. Moreover, Finn is a widower with a secret past, one that will cause Lady Kathryn much grief of her own making.<br /><br />The freethinking Finn and the newly liberated lady of Blackingham Manor soon find that they have quite a bit in common. Their friendship grows into a passionate romance that neither of them would have expected or anticipated. In the wake of their passion, however, a chain of unstoppable events is unleashed. Finn and Lady Kathryn's relationship  will lead her to a crossroad where she finds herself with her loyalties divided between Finn and her sons, forcing her to make a choice she would rather not have to make. Moreover, unbeknownst to them, Rose and Colin likewise find love budding between them with ramifications beyond their understanding.<br /><br />Always at the center of the book is life as it is lived on Blackingham Manor and the everyday concerns that go along with living in a place under such oppressive circumstances. Always in the backdrop is the political and religious turbulence that would one day eventually lead to the Reformation. Meanwhile, that turbulence has the capability of profoundly changing the lives of everyone living at Blackingham Manor.  Serving to complicate matters further, is the murder of an avaricious priest, which murder appears to be laid at the doorstep of Blackingham Manor.  In addition, Lady Kathryn's malevolent overseer, the yeoman Simpson, is dealing her a bad hand and causing untold mischief among her serfs.  Consequently, there comes a time when the seething cauldron of unrest bubbles over, taking everyone in its path for a ride not of their own choosing.<br /><br />This author is a welcome new voice in the historical fiction genre. She has managed to create interesting and somewhat unusual characters not often found in historical fiction. A prominent character in the book is the local anchoress, which is based upon the mystic, Julian of Norwich, a character one does not often see mentioned in historical fiction of the period. Nor does one often come across an illuminator as an integral character in a novel. The author also seamlessly weaves historical figures into the fabric of her fiction with practiced ease. This is a well-defined, imaginative book that brings the Middle Ages to life. It will be enjoyed by all those who love well-written historical fiction.r /><br />This author is a welcome new voice in the historical fiction genre. She has managed to create interesting and somewhat unusual characters not often found in historical fiction. A prominent character in the book is the local anchoress, which is based upon the mystic, Julian of Norwich, a character one does not often see mentioned in historical fiction of the period. Nor does one often come across an illuminator as an integral character in a novel. The author also seamlessly weaves historical figures into the fabric of her fiction with practiced ease. This is a well-defined, imaginative book that brings the Middle Ages to life. It will be enjoyed by all those who love well-written historical fiction.	2005-06-18
200602:US	49355567	R9IRWS4WJLB6Z	1565848705	392312214	Amazonia: Five Years at the Epicenter of the Dot.Com Juggernaut	Books	5	9	12	N	Y	THE RISE OF A RETAIL GIANT...	This is a marvelously written book about the early days of Amazon by one who was employed there in the capacity of editor. This is an insider's observation of an e-commerce leviathan's rise from obscurity.  The author reflects on the heady, halcyon days when Amazon was just a newly minted internet  book seller, hoping to make its mark. The reader can almost taste the author's enthusiasm for the time he spent working for Amazon in those early days. Who wouldn't be enthusiastic, having worked for a company that gave its employees stock options that, at the height of the dot.com craze, were worth millions.<br /><br />It was not, however,  just about the money. It was also about the opportunity to be on the ground floor of a business that would change the retailing community forever.  It was about the camaraderie and the solidarity in those early days, as the employees all wore many hats. The author lets the reader sneak a peek at  job interviews. He allows the reader to sit in on staff meetings with him, as well as  trade shows,  corporate picnics, and retreats that were like pep rallies. It is a most intriguing birds-eye view.<br /><br />As Amazon grew and changed, so did the author's position as editor. Then, the death knell began ringing for the editors, when the concept of customer reviews developed and grew, becoming a cultural phenomenon unto itself, laying the groundwork for the obsolescence of the job of editor as it was originally constituted. Moreover, the freewheeling, by the seat of your pants operation of Amazon had given over to a more corporate structure. The author worked at Amazon from 1996 to 2001, and his nostalgic  reminiscences make for absorbing reading. Those who are devotees of Amazon will find this well-written book heady stuff, indeed.	2005-06-17
201849:US	49355567	R3378SCLJAR1XA	051513449X	453010069	Guilty Pleasures (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter: Book 1)	Books	5	68	75	N	Y	I AM HOOKED...	This book was highly recommended by a fellow Amazon reviewer whose tastes mirror my own. Not only did she give it an excellent review, when we spoke she sang its praises. So, I went and bought the book. After all, I had read books by Anne Rice, as well as Donna Boyd, and enjoyed them. So, obviously books about vampires and/or lycanthropes are hardly a stretch for me.<br /><br />To my surprise, I was hooked once I began turning the pages of this book. It is a totally fun book to read, with its diminutive, feisty heroin, Anita Blake, a formidable vampire hunter who now focuses on being an animator, one who raises the dead. She lives in an alternate America where vampirism is legal, and vampires of the world are flocking to our shores. In good old St. Louis, Missouri, where  our intrepid heroine lives, vampires live openly among humans and have developed a bizarre cult following. Of course, since killing vampires is against the law, Anita works closely with the police supernatural squad.<br /><br />Someone, however, is killing vampires, and although the police is investigating, the most powerful vampire in the city, Nicholaos, a thousand year old being who is ensconced in the body of a beautiful  pubescent girl, has commissioned her to find the killer.  The reluctant Anita, who finds herself at odds with evil Nicholaos, finds an unexpected ally and friend in the handsome Jean-Claude, a two centuries old vampire for whom she feels an unexpected attraction and affinity.<br /><br />Anita finds herself in a number of hair-raising situations as she seeks to discover the killer. Along the way she is plagued by vampires,  wererats, ghouls, other animators, and fellow humans. The plot is fast-paced and intriguing. Its characters capture the reader's imagination. While most of them are not particularly well-fleshed, as it  is basically a plot driven book, the main character, Anita Blake, is quite interesting, as well as compelling, and resonates with the reader.<br /><br />The author manages to pull together a highly entertaining and enjoyable book. The style is part detective potboiler, part mystery, and part fantasy with supernatural portents. It carries the reader along from its first page to its last, never losing its momentum. In fact, it leaves the reader wanting more. Good thing that this is merely the first in a series of books about this intrepid vampire hunter, Anita Blake. I look forward to reading them all.author manages to pull together a highly entertaining and enjoyable book. The style is part detective potboiler, part mystery, and part fantasy with supernatural portents. It carries the reader along from its first page to its last, never losing its momentum. In fact, it leaves the reader wanting more. Good thing that this is merely the first in a series of books about this intrepid vampire hunter, Anita Blake. I look forward to reading them all.	2005-06-16
202019:US	49355567	R1NFT1QBCGRUTA	0395957907	339730432	The Boy	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	DARK...GRIM...RELENTLESS...	This book is a psychological foray, a dark and gritty look into the face of consummate evil, whose countenance is that of a mere boy. Known by different names to those with whom he comes in contact, little good follows those who form a relationship with him. The boy, who has the face of an angel, has a soul rife with corruption. He is a natural predator who ingratiates himself into the lives of others, then seeks to discover their psychic needs in order to know what  buttons to push in order to get others to do what he secretly wants them to do.<br /><br />Machiavellian in the extreme, no good comes of what the boy  wants, as his intention is to inflict the maximum psychic pain that he can on those who would seek to befriend him. Chameleon-like, he is known by different names.  To Sean Hennessy, who was once his foster father,  the boy was known as Durwood. Now, Sean is desperately looking for the boy, as he believes that the boy will provide answers for the tragedy that enveloped Sean's family.<br /><br />This is a moody and dark book. There is nothing uplifting about it. Tense and disquieting throughout, at times I found it somewhat repetitive. At other times, it seemed to drag. As a debut novel, it shows that the author has potential, as he is clearly  master of  the written word, the writing sometimes waxing positively poetic. Yet, there is something disturbing about the author's vision of redemption for one's sins. The book is too dark by far for me. Still, it is certainly a promise of things to come.	2005-06-16
203938:US	49355567	RCHA4DB3ZHW46	1558175377	138571601	Edward Gein	Books	3	8	8	N	N	OUT OF AMERICA'S HEARTLAND...	This is a book about Edward Gein, the mild mannered, Midwestern psychopath from Plainfield, Wisconsin who, in the nineteen fifties, would shock the nation with his gruesome crimes. Edward Gein would become the basis for the best selling book by Robert Bloch, \\"Psycho\\", as well as for the Hitchcock film of the same name. Accounts of Edward Gein's heinous crimes would also enter the consciousness of a young Tobe Hooper who, as an adult, would write and direct the classic cult film, \\"The Texas Chainsaw Massacre\\".<br /><br />The author, who was the judge who presided over Edward Gein's trial,  writes a cogent, factual account of the last grisly crime perpetrated by of Edward Gein, that of hardware store owner Bernice Worden, who was a widow of fifty-eight at the time of her murder.  He also  touches upon Edward Gein's other grisly crimes and bizarre practices, all of which shocked the nation at the time of their discovery.<br /><br />The book contains many police reports and court transcripts. It details Edward Gein's \\"confession\\" to the Bernice Worden murder, as well as the author's judicial review of that statement. Ms. Worden's autopsy report is  included in the book, as is Edward Gein's personal and medical history, as well as his psychiatric evaluation. It is clear the Edward Gein had an abnormal attachment to his  deceased mother. It was an attachment  that would manifest itself in unimaginable ways. It is almost hard to believe that such a diminutive, seemingly inoffensive man could be such a madman, but who but a madman would do what he did? Edward Gein, it was discovered, had turned his small farmhouse into a gruesome charnel house, replete with furnishings adorned with human flesh and bones.<br /><br />The book also includes a chapter on the judicial decision that determined Edward Gein was insane and caused him to be committed to a hospital for the insane for an indeterminate period.  Ten years later, Edward Gein was determined to be fit to stand trial for the murder of Bernice Worden, and the author became the presiding judge. One of the most curious aspects of the trial was Gein's request that his assigned counsel be the attorney who had presided over his sanity hearing years earlier. That attorney, however, had since become an assistant district attorney on the case against Gein. Notwithstanding that, he promptly resigned from his position as a state prosecutor and became Edward Gein's defense attorney.<br /><br />The book contains transcripts from the trial, which makes for somewhat dry reading. There is some hair-raising testimony, however, on what was found at Gein's home, as well as on some of the ghoulish practices in which Gein engaged. The trial, which took nearly a year from start to finish, resulted in  Gein's return to the hospital for the insane. The book contains an interview with the forensic psychiatrist at the hospital, as well as the hospital superintendent, in order to include information on Ed Gein's years at the hospital to which he was confined. The book also includes a post trial, hospital  interview with Edward Gein himself. Moreover, the book contains an appendix in which the forensic psychiatrist contributes what he labels as \\"Gein humor\\", which is typical of \\"community reactions to a horrifying event.\\", and he engages in a brief analysis of this phenomenon.<br /><br />This book is a pretty straightforward, although at times tedious, hodge-podge account by the author, which focuses more on the crime for which Edward Gein stood trial, rather than any in-depth summary analysis of Gein himself or his actions. Aficionados of true crime will find this book of some interest, as it is an insider's account of \\"the case of the century\\" and provides a birds-eye view into one of the most horrifying and bizarre crimes ever to be committed.<br /><br />The book promises \\"eight pages of blood-curdling police photographs\\", and this is an absolute understatement. I have never before seen such shocking photographs included in a true crime book.  They are the stuff of nightmares and serve to provide the reader with a brief, visual glimpse into the life of Edward Gein, a man with a secret hobby so depraved that it would shock the entire nation when it came to light. Lovers of true crime accounts will find something of interest in this insider's comprehensive foray into a crime committed by a seemingly innocuous man from America's heartland who ended up being so deviant from the norm.hs included in a true crime book.  They are the stuff of nightmares and serve to provide the reader with a brief, visual glimpse into the life of Edward Gein, a man with a secret hobby so depraved that it would shock the entire nation when it came to light. Lovers of true crime accounts will find something of interest in this insider's comprehensive foray into a crime committed by a seemingly innocuous man from America's heartland who ended up being so deviant from the norm.	2005-06-15
206958:US	49355567	R1Z4R405HI898J	0749912464	100280304	Yesterday's Children	Books	5	42	42	N	N	A MOTHER'S SEARCH FOR HER PAST LIFE CHILDREN...	I first read about the strange story of Jenny Cockell and her search for her past life children in \\"People\\" magazine many years ago and found it fascinating. I did not realize that she had written a book about her experience, until I happened to catch a movie on cable television that was titled, \\"Yesterday's Children\\", starring Jane Seymour. As soon as I saw the film, I realized that it was the story of the woman about whom I had read so many years before. When I saw that the film was based upon a book of the same name in which she had written about her experience, I immediately went to Amazon and ordered the book, which has also been released  under the title, \\"Across Time and Death: A Mother's Search for her Past Life Children\\".<br /><br />The book is an intriguing look at the concept of reincarnation. Jenny Cockell's experience would tend to support such a concept. Ever since she was a child, Jenny was haunted by dreams and fragments of a past life, of Mary, a woman who had died twenty one years before Jenny was born, of children who were Mary's but whom Jenny felt were, nonetheless, her own, of a town in Ireland in which she had lived as Mary. So, when Jenny Cockell was a woman in her thirties, she decided to investigate those memories. Always at the forefront of her mind were thoughts of those children of long ago. What she would discover would give even the most hardened nay-sayer food for thought.<br /><br />This is a well-written, persuasive account of a past life, as well as the story of a mother's love for her children, a love that would reach across time and transcend temporal reality. For those who discount the concept of reincarnation and think that this is all that there is, I would suggest that they read this book and think again.	2005-06-12
207219:US	49355567	RILE3F1QCR1SG	0739440802	237333289	The Queen's Fool	Books	4	5	5	N	N	THERE IS NO FOOL LIKE THE QUEEN'S FOOL...	This best selling English author of historical fiction has written yet another interesting work. This novel takes place during the reign of Mary Tudor, daughter of King Henry VIII and Katherine of Aragon. She would leave a legacy that would cause her to be known as \\"Bloody Mary\\" for her burning of heretics.<br />The narrator is a girl named Hannah Green, a young teenager who has fled Spain and its Inquisition with her father, following the death of her mother. She had been burned alive at the stake as a heretic, when it was discovered that she was a \\"Marrano\\", a false Christian, that is, a Jew who has converted to Christianity but who follows the Jewish faith in secret.<br /><br />Landing in London, where her father opens a book store, Hannah makes the acquaintance of a handsome rake, Sir Robert Dudley, who discovers that Hannah has the gift of sight. She develops a personal relationship with him that eventually sees her enter into Queen Mary's service as her fool. Hannah serves Queen Mary, but at the same time, is sent by the Queen to serve her half-sister the Princess Elizabeth and spy upon her.<br /><br />Meanwhile, Sir Robert Dudley also uses Hannah in his treasonous plot to see the Princess Elizabeth on the throne of England. So, Hannah finds herself walking a dangerous tightrope and is fearful of discovery of her role in the political intrigues that are welling around her, as well as discovery of her own background, which would be grounds for death. Her worst fears are nearly realized when the Queen marries Prince Phillip of Spain.<br /><br />In the midst of all this political intriguing that appears to be going on all around her, Hannah has her own immediate future to think about, as she becomes betrothed to another Marrano such as herself. Infatuated with Lord Dudley, loyal to both Queen Mary and the clever and manipulative Princess Elizabeth, Hannah finds herself putting her own future happiness at risk amidst the political and religious turmoil of the time.<br /><br />This is a fast paced, breezy read about an independent, young woman who finds herself at a crossroad in her life and begins a voyage of self-discovery that will ultimately change her life. The story takes place in sixteenth century England, amidst all the political strife and religious upheaval of the time. The author weaves an intriguing tapestry of historical events and personages together with the intrigues that were rife in the Tudor court of the Queen who would become known as Bloody Mary..<br /><br />This is a fast paced, breezy read about an independent, young woman who finds herself at a crossroad in her life and begins a voyage of self-discovery that will ultimately change her life. The story takes place in sixteenth century England, amidst all the political strife and religious upheaval of the time. The author weaves an intriguing tapestry of historical events and personages together with the intrigues that were rife in the Tudor court of the Queen who would become known as Bloody Mary.	2005-06-12
207331:US	49355567	R1VQ9JNFUU609C	0671821229	59773996	Daughter of Time	Books	5	0	0	N	N	THERE IS MORE TO THIS THAN MEETS THE EYE...	This is a wonderful genre bending book...part mystery, part history. Written by Scotswoman Elizabeth MacIntosh, who wrote under the pen name Josephine Tey, it was first published in 1951. It is tragic that the author died in 1952 and was never to know the pleasure that this book would bring to generations of readers and that the Mystery Writers of America would ultimately rank it fourth among the one hundred best mysteries ever written.<br /><br />The title of the book is derived from a historical source, as it is attributable to Sir Francis Bacon, \\"For truth is rightly named after the daughter of time, and not of authority.\\" The book itself is not a traditional mystery but rather an application of deductive reasoning to an actual historical event. The event in question is the murder of the princes in the tower, sons of King Edward IV, allegedly by their uncle, Richard III, who eventually usurped the English throne after the death of his brother. It has been widely held that Richard III did, indeed, murder the two young princes, his nephews, in order to secure his claim to the throne.<br /><br />The reader is introduced to Scotland Yard Inspector Alan Grant, who is hospitalized and recovering from injuries sustained in the line of duty. While convalescing, he becomes intrigued by a picture of a portrait of Richard III, a likeness with which he is unfamiliar. Grant is puzzled that someone with such a sensitive face could have been such a monster as to murder his two nephews in cold blood. So, our intrepid Inspector decides that he will reconsider the evidence upon which such a dastardly assumption has been based. With the help of an American researcher doing the necessary legwork, Grant compiles enough archival historical fact that incrementally helps him formulate a new theory as to who actually may have murdered the princes in the tower.<br /><br />This analysis and reformulation is done as though it were being argued to a jury. Indeed, so persuasive is Inspector Grant with the application of some insightful deductive reasoning and clever dialogue that the reader comes away thinking that Grant has solved one of the most intriguing historical mysteries of all time. This is certainly an unusual book conceptually but one that succeeds brilliantly. It should appeal to those readers who enjoy having a mystery unraveled, as well as to those who harbor a love of English history. Bravo!rant with the application of some insightful deductive reasoning and clever dialogue that the reader comes away thinking that Grant has solved one of the most intriguing historical mysteries of all time. This is certainly an unusual book conceptually but one that succeeds brilliantly. It should appeal to those readers who enjoy having a mystery unraveled, as well as to those who harbor a love of English history. Bravo!	2005-06-12
207414:US	49355567	R3KGJGFI6FNFWW	0788744151	466136665	The Doomsday Book	Books	5	0	0	N	N	TERRIFIC TIME TRAVEL TALE...	Winner of both the Hugo and Nebula Awards for science fiction, this book is a tour de force that is sure to captivate all those who love time travel themes, as well as those who have a deep appreciation for medieval history. The author masterfully melds these two genres, creating a novel that is riveting and highly entertaining.<br /><br />The year is 2048 A.D., and a young history student named Kivrin is preparing to do an on site study of the turbulent fourteenth century. Her mission has placed two of the University's professors at cross purposes, as the proponent for this study, Mr. Gilchrist, finds himself pitted against Mr. Dunworthy, Kivrin's mentor, who believes that this trip in time is far too dangerous. Mr. Gilchrist, however, is in the position to have the final say on the project.<br /><br />Kivrin is scheduled to land in the rural English countryside of the fourteenth century some twenty years before the Black Death savages England. Armed with the knowledge of fourteenth century customs, dress, languages, religious practices, and history, Kivrin is raring to go back in time. When she travels back, however, an unforeseen crisis in the present places Kivrin in a potentially deadly situation upon her arrival in the past.<br /><br />The book alternates between what is happening in the present and what is happening in the past, as those in the present work to unravel the mystery of what went wrong. Meanwhile, Kivrin struggles to overcome the anomalous situations she encounters that run contra to her expectations. Believing herself stranded in the past, Kivrin artfully maneuvers around the precarious situations in which she finds herself, never losing her humanity despite the horror of her situation, given what went wrong.<br /><br />Steeped in well-researched medieval life, it is the story of Kivrin's sojourn in the past that captures the imagination of the reader. This is a stunning book that is totally gripping. The spellbound reader will definitely keep turning the pages of this wonderful book, which is clearly written by a master storyteller. Bravo!urning the pages of this wonderful book, which is clearly written by a master storyteller. Bravo!	2005-06-12
221343:US	49355567	R5SC8HVRLY68E	0671803336	170429737	Ordeal by Hunger	Books	4	0	0	N	N	THE DONNER PARTY TRAGEDY...	This book presents an account of the Donner Party, a wagon train of about eighty-seven people who in July 1846 started off for California via a new, untried route through the Sierras. Unfortunately, this particular wagon train of pioneers would go down in history due to the horror and tragedy that it was to meet along its way. Stranded in the Sierras amidst its harshest winter in years, with unparalleled snowfall and frigid temperatures, only little more than half, mostly women and children, were to survive their unbelievable deprivation and suffering.<br /><br />This wagon train was a loose confederation of strangers who originally were part of another wagon train, but who collectively branched off by consensus to try a new, though untried and unproven, overland route through the Sierras that was alleged to be shorter. Their decision to take this new route was one that would haunt them for the rest of their journey, as it was not what it was purported to be. The inexperience of these travelers, the poor decisions that were sometimes made, and their seeming inability to truly unify as one entity contributed to their ultimate debacle. They were, after all, representative of humanity at large. Some of them were good, brave, and unselfish. Some were people with whom one would not wish to shake hands.<br /><br />Beleaguered by thirst as they trekked across a desert, marauded by Indians along the way, plagued by the loss of necessary oxen and cattle, beset by accidents and personal squabbles that would sometimes turn deadly, they would finally reach the Sierras and begin their perilous crossing, only to find themselves snowbound at the summit while within sight of the pass that they needed to cross to be home free. Trapped by the weather in early November, they would set up a make-shift camp, never thinking about just how long their encampment would last. With minimal food supplies at their disposal, these intrepid, westward-ho emigrants would find themselves trapped for months, facing incredible hardships that would tax them beyond human endurance. Some would resort to cannibalism in order to survive.<br /><br />This is a riveting story about survival of the fittest, about personal sacrifice, and human foibles. It is a story not only of those ill-fated pioneers but of those who would attempt to rescue them, often at great personal cost. It is a story that reflects the human spirit, both good and bad, in time of crisis. It is a story of often selfless heroism. It is also a story of greed and craven opportunism. While some of the book is politically incorrect, it is reflective of the times in which these pioneers lived, as well as that of when this book was first written.<br /><br />It is, however, remiss that the maps included in this book do little to illustrate the deadly journey undertaken by these pioneers. Still, the lack of comprehensive maps does not unduly detract from the powerful impact that this story has on the reader. Moreover, although the book was published in 1936, the author, a trained historian, added a supplement in 1960, which is included in this edition of his book. This supplement serves to correct errors, as well as incorporate additional relevant material not available at the time of original publication.<br /><br />Those who enjoy tales of survival will, undoubtedly, find this gripping tale well worth reading.months, facing incredible hardships that would tax them beyond human endurance. Some would resort to cannibalism in order to survive.<br /><br />This is a riveting story about survival of the fittest, about personal sacrifice, and human foibles. It is a story not only of those ill-fated pioneers but of those who would attempt to rescue them, often at great personal cost. It is a story that reflects the human spirit, both good and bad, in time of crisis. It is a story of often selfless heroism. It is also a story of greed and craven opportunism. While some of the book is politically incorrect, it is reflective of the times in which these pioneers lived, as well as that of when this book was first written.<br /><br />It is, however, remiss that the maps included in this book do little to illustrate the deadly journey undertaken by these pioneers. Still, the lack of comprehensive maps does not unduly detract from the powerful impact that this story has on the reader. Moreover, although the book was published in 1936, the author, a trained historian, added a supplement in 1960, which is included in this edition of his book. This supplement serves to correct errors, as well as incorporate additional relevant material not available at the time of original publication.<br /><br />Those who enjoy tales of survival will, undoubtedly, find this gripping tale well worth reading.	2005-05-31
231904:US	49355567	R2A4BTOAE8P1UW	0140274731	651296590	Cold Comfort Farm	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	SOMETHING NASTY HAPPENED IN THE WOODSHED...	Published in 1932, this novel is a hysterically funny, tongue in cheek parody of the heavy handed, gloomy novels of some early twentieth century English writers who had previously been so popular. Tremendously successful when first published, \\"Cold Comfort Farm\\" caused quite a stir in its time.<br /><br />The novel starts out innocuously enough, when well-educated Flora Poste finds herself orphaned at the age of twenty. Discovering that her father was not the wealthy man she believed him to be, she is resigned to the fate of having to live on a hundred pounds a year. Opting to live with relatives, rather than earn her bread, she seeks out a most unlikely set of relations, the odd Starkadder family who live in Howling, Sussex.<br /><br />Therein begins what is certainly one of the funniest novels ever written. When Flora arrives in Howling, she meets her odd relatives, who live in neglected, ramshackle \\"Cold Comfort Farm\\", where they still wash the dishes with twigs, and have cows named Graceless, Pointless, Feckless, and Aimless. Headed by a seventy-nine year old matriarch, Flora's aunt, Ada Doom Starkadder, who has not been right in the head since she \\"saw something nasty happen in the woodshed\\" nearly seventy years ago, they are a motley and strange crew indeed. Confronted with their dismal and gloomy existence, Flora sets about trying to put things to right.<br /><br />Peppered with eccentric, memorable characters, this book will take the reader on a journey not easily forgotten. It is one that is sure to make the reader revisit this novel yet again, like an old friend who is missed too soon.	2005-05-22
232239:US	49355567	RURDXK6SF548C	0739432311	156130144	The Awakening	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A WONDERFUL, OLD-FASHIONED GHOST STORY WITH A TWIST...	The author, who has written a number of well-received books, including her elegantly written werewolf saga (\\"The Passion\\", \\"The Promise\\"), now turns her attention to ghosts in this intriguing tale of the supernatural. Those who have enjoyed the author's previous books will not be disappointed.<br /><br />The story is told through the eyes of a family in crisis, the Masons, as well as through the eyes of Mary, the ghost in this well told tale. The Masons are a family who have had their world turned upside down through a series of unfortuitous events.<br /><br />Their teenage daughter Elsie is suffering from some traumatic experience that has resulted in her being home schooled. Paul, the patriarch of the family, has done the near unforgivable, by having an affair with a student at the college at which he had been a professor. Having been summarily dismissed from his position for his ill advised behavior, he, a formerly successful writer, also has had the misfortune to watch his career wane, as that of Penny, his wife and a successful surgeon, has been on the rise. Clearly, this is a family in crisis.<br /><br />To escape the scandal, help their daughter, and try and save their marriage, the Masons have moved to their lakefront home in a rural section of North Carolina. While there, each of the family members has a series of unusual experiences. Elsie sees a woman named Mary wandering about the house, as does her father, while Penny has a series of violent dreams in which the woman named Mary also plays a part.<br /><br />Meanwhile, Mary is having her own crisis, as the reader will soon discover. Mary has ties to the house in which the Masons now reside, and the Masons themselves seem all too familiar to her, as she wanders around the house and grounds. You see, Mary is desperately trying to remember something that remains elusive, and the Masons may just have the key to her past.<br /><br />This story is beautifully told when done so through the voice of Mary. Vivid in its imagery and language, it is very well done. When told through the collective voices of the Mason family, the book takes a much more pedestrian tone in the telling, which detracts somewhat from the book and takes away some of its polish and luster. Notwithstanding this, it is an intriguing and novel ghost story that is well worth reading.in its imagery and language, it is very well done. When told through the collective voices of the Mason family, the book takes a much more pedestrian tone in the telling, which detracts somewhat from the book and takes away some of its polish and luster. Notwithstanding this, it is an intriguing and novel ghost story that is well worth reading.	2005-05-22
232357:US	49355567	R3PIXJU5RTMHS7	B0007FNV04	171219417	Annapurna	Books	4	0	0	N	N	EXTREME ADVENTURE FOR THE GLORY OF FRANCE...	This book is a romanticized, sanitized account of the 1950 French expedition to the Himalayas by its so-called leader, Maurice Herzog. It is a book that is reflective of the times in which it was written. Still, it should be a must read for anyone who is interested in high altitude climbing.<br /><br />I first read this book in the early 1960s as a young teenager. I recall being enthralled by it and amazed at the hardships the climbers endured to bring glory to France. In reading it again as an adult, I find myself still enthralled, but more attuned to the fact that it is written in a somewhat self-serving style.<br />The book itself chronicles the attempt by the French to climb an 8,000 meter peak in the Himalayas. They had two alternatives: Dhaulagiri and Annapurna. In those days, the Himalayas were largely uncharted and any topographical maps, which existed at the time proved to be largely incorrect. So, the French expedition spent a large portion of their time in reconnaissance. Not only were they there to climb the mountain, they had to find a way to get to it and then map out a route on the unknown terrain to the summit. Ultimately, they chose to climb Annapurna.<br /><br />In reading this book, one must remember that the climb took place without the sophisticated equipment or protective clothing available today. This was before gortex and freeze-dried foods. This climb was made before Nepal or climbing the Himalayas became a major tourist attraction. The conditions for travelers were extremely primitive and difficult under the best of circumstances.<br /><br />When the expedition finally finds a route to Annapurna, the reader almost feels like cheering for them. When they start to climb, one senses that, in comparison to latter day expeditions, they are not so well equipped or savvy about the dangers one can encounter during a high altitude climb or the risks in doing it without supplemental oxygen, as they did. Then one realizes that they were pioneers. They were paving the way for others.<br />The climb to the summit by Maurice Herzog and his partner, Louis Lachenal, is interesting, but it is their harrowing descent and return to civilization that is riveting. The two summiteers begin their descent but run into difficulties. They are fortunate to encounter two of their fellow climbers, Lionel Terray and Gaston Rebuffat, who are contemplating their own summit assault but, instead, choose to aid their comrades in the descent, foregoing their own quest for the summit.<br /><br />The travails which the climbers encounter on the descent would have finished off less hardy souls. Maurice Herzog loses his gloves during the descent and has no spare pair. One of them falls into a crevasse which, believe it or not, turns out to be a good thing. They are caught in an avalanche. They get lost in a storm. They become frostbitten and two of them, are, ultimately, forced to endure amputations.<br /><br />The medical treatment they received by the expedition doctor is unbelievable and almost primitive. Employing treatments for frostbite that have since fallen onto disrepute (excruciatingly painful arterial injections, for example), the doctor is almost frightening, at times. The reader cannot help but feel pity for the suffering the injured climbers endured: maggot ridden flesh, amputations without anaesthesia, and lack of proper medical care for a protracted period of time.<br /><br />The heroics of some of the Sherpas, as on most expeditions, go largely unsung. One must, however, pause to reflect on the fact that as this all took place before airlifts were available, the injured climbers had to be carried. Their exodus back to the frontier took about five weeks. Who carried them down the mountain, over the moraines, on makeshift bridges over flooded, raging rivers, through dense jungle? Who else but the Sherpas. What thanks did they get? None, as usual.<br /><br />Anyway, when the expedition finally return to France, Maurice Herzogis lauded as a national hero by the French. He becomes the media darling. The other three climbers, as are the rest of those on the expedition, are largely ignored and forgotten. Therein lies the tale. If you want to know how this polarization came about, I highly recommend that you also read 'True Summit' by David Roberts. It gives you the inside scoop about the expedition and how things really were.<br /><br />Notwithstanding its idealization, romanticism, and everything is hunky-dory routine, Herzog's book is still a must read for all climbing enthusiasts.is lauded as a national hero by the French. He becomes the media darling. The other three climbers, as are the rest of those on the expedition, are largely ignored and forgotten. Therein lies the tale. If you want to know how this polarization came about, I highly recommend that you also read 'True Summit' by David Roberts. It gives you the inside scoop about the expedition and how things really were.<br /><br />Notwithstanding its idealization, romanticism, and everything is hunky-dory routine, Herzog's book is still a must read for all climbing enthusiasts.	2005-05-22
243004:US	49355567	R1H32IV6LHYKL4	0786868716	891971809	The Five People You Meet In Heaven	Books	4	2	2	N	N	THE TAPESTRY OF LIFE...	Written in clear, spare prose, this slender tome is a pleasant little book that can easily be read in one sitting. It is a sentimental look at life and the hereafter. The book focuses on an individual named Eddie, who is the chief maintenance mechanic for the rides at a seaside amusement park called Ruby Pier. It is around him that the book revolves. Eddie is a somewhat embittered and lonely old man who tragically dies on his eighty third birthday, while trying to save a child from certain death when an amusement ride comes loose from its moorings.<br /><br />When he dies, Eddie meets five people in heaven. Each of them imparts a special lesson about Eddie's life. Each lesson allows him to understand the meaning of his life a little better. The five people that he meets show Eddie, and the reader, how we are all connected, and that the smallest acts can often have great impact on others, both positively and negatively. The book's bottom line message is that everyone has a purpose in life, whether or not it is readily apparent to one. It is as if there were a cosmic tapestry, with the life of one interwoven with the life of another, the threads crossing unknowingly but creating a larger picture.<br /><br />Although the author definitely manipulates the sensibilities of the reader, that is not necessarily a bad thing. The book, however, is somewhat predictable and, at times, a little reminiscent of a treacly Hallmark greeting card, both schmaltzy and touching. It was no surprise that the book ended up as a Hallmark Hall of Fame production and turned into a made-for-TV movie. The film is quite enjoyable, and Jon Voight is terrific in the lead role. I actually saw the film before I read the book, and the film whetted my appetite for the book. While not as good as the author's other book, \\"Tuesdays with Morrie\\", it is still a book that will resonate, if only because many will find its simple message comforting. Profundity, after all, may be found in simplicity.r /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-05-12
247472:US	49355567	R2FUXCFPWPMCUS	0848817567	2859176	Double Indemnity	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	A KILLER PLOT...	This book, more novella than novel, is intricately plotted and a very quick read. Wholly plot-driven, the book is a classic morality tale. A seductive woman, Phyllis Nirdlinger, desires to kill her wealthy husband. An otherwise intelligent insurance agent, Walter Huff,  falls under her spell. Together they put together a seemingly failsafe plan to do the dastardly deed, making it appear as if it were an accident, so that the double indemnity clause in an insurance policy will kick into play. The problem is that all is not as it initially seems.<br /><br />Written as a first person narrative by the insurance agent, the writing is tight, spare, and lean. No word is wasted. Yet, the minimalism works to the advantage of the story, as it makes the intricacy of the plotting clear to the reader. Having seen the film with Fred MacMurray and Barbara Stanwyck in the lead roles, I kept hearing Fred MacMurray's voice in my head as I read the book. While the film deviates from the book in a number of ways, it is classic film noir at its best and well-worth viewing. Likewise, the book is a classic in its own right, and those who like hard-boiled crime fiction will not be disappointed.	2005-05-09
248117:US	49355567	RP6KZE7QHS21F	0553272934	454149734	Hunger of Memory : The Education of Richard Rodriguez	Books	4	89	96	N	N	AN EDUCATIONAL ODYSSEY AND POWERFUL POLITICAL STATEMENT...	In this autobiographical work, the author attempts to put forth his views on a number of topics within a personal context. He does this within the framework of his being Mexican-American. His parsing of the effect that education had on his life is both interesting and food for thought. While education provided a means of connecting to the world outside his cultural enclave, it also created a distance between him and his cultural roots. As he assimilated into the larger world outside his immediate cultural milieu, it created a divide between him and his parents. As they remained in their self-contained, unassimilated world, only their mutual love for each other was able to bridge the chasm that education created, for figuratively they no longer spoke the same language.<br /><br />Likewise, the impact and influence that his early Catholic parochial school experience had on him resonated with me, as I myself was a product of such schooling. His reminiscences brought back many memories for me, most of them positive ones, despite some of the obvious pitfalls inherent in that sometimes narrow, parochial education framework that often favored rote learning over intellectual or critical thinking. Indeed, his love of reading, as is mine, emanated from that early educational experience, which greatly emphasized reading. The impact and influence that Catholicism had on him had are fertile grounds for discussion in the context of liturgical reform and its effects upon community. As a Catholic having lived through the reforms initiated by Vatican II, I understand and appreciate his analysis on the demystification of the liturgy and the loss of the mystical in its transition from Latin into a vernacular language in its celebration of the concept of community. These reflections are intermingled with his thoughts on the Catholicism that he was taught in school by the nuns, a Catholicism that was influenced by the \\"bleak melancholic strain\\" that runs through Irish Catholicism. Having been taught by Irish nuns as a child, this, too, resonated with me. I also remember well those lessons taught through the strict use of the Baltimore Catechism, a fairly dogmatic and rote approach to Catholicism that is, for the most part, no longer employed.<br /><br />The author's personal educational experiences and reflections have caused him to formulate certain views on bi-lingual education  and  affirmative action. His views on these issues are the very same views that I hold. Being a Cuban-American, I relate to many of his experiences as a Mexican-American, and his careful analysis of these issues hits home in many ways. Integrated into his analysis is a certain amount of irony. I agree that, oftentimes, a minority who has succeeded academically and professionally is often marginalized by society, relegated to speaking for all minorities, as if one size fits all. Missing from the equation, now a parody of social reform, is the fundamental issue of class. It is an issue that is largely unaddressed n in these programs of social reform. For those who claim that the author was the beneficiary of affirmative action, it should be noted that the author would have been able to get into Stanford, where he went to college, on his own merits, as he was certainly not educationally disadvantaged.  Moreover, as a scholar who desired the intellectual stimulation of academic life, he chose to give it up as a form of protest against affirmative action. Instead, he became a noted essayist and social critic.<br /><br />What is also of interest in this book is what is missing. As I read the book, the sense of estrangement from his family was palpable, as was his loneliness and the lack of any mention of social congress. His was, indeed, a solitary existence, as if the author were not yet in touch with a part of himself that he had sublimated.  His sexual identity is a totally blank slate within the pages of this book, as if a portion of himself had been excised. Where it is indirectly alluded, it is ambiguous, at best, referred to as sexual anxieties. At Stanford, he notes, however,  that he began to have something of a \\"conventional\\" sex life\\".  This, I felt was a curious use of the adjectival and more meaningful within the context of what is not discussed. His mother called him, \\"Mr. Secrets\\", ostensibly because he told her little about his work in San Francisco.  As a mother, I suspect it is probably because she already knew at some level what the author was reluctant to reveal at the time, even to himself. Later on, the author made a declaration that was probably already subliminally known to his family. As did his educational advancement,  this secret may have also contributed to his feeling of estrangement from his family and his culture. After all, in the world of machismo, the concept of homosexuality is one that many traditional Latino families still have difficulty accepting. It took the author many years to come to grips with his sexual orientation.  It was only years later that he publicly acknowledged what is evident to the discerning reader of this book.<br /><br />While the author has a voice that should be heard, his style of writing is often pedantic and somewhat strained. The construction can be quite  awkward and stilted, as if the author were stylistically distancing himself from his own life. So, while I find his critical analysis of certain issues to be on point and often brilliant, the style in which he conveys his thoughts, at times, acts as a distraction and an irritant. Still, for those readers who can look past some of the stylistic bombast, they will find a wellspring of insightful, critical analysis of social issues.ndirectly alluded, it is ambiguous, at best, referred to as sexual anxieties. At Stanford, he notes, however,  that he began to have something of a \\"conventional\\" sex life\\".  This, I felt was a curious use of the adjectival and more meaningful within the context of what is not discussed. His mother called him, \\"Mr. Secrets\\", ostensibly because he told her little about his work in San Francisco.  As a mother, I suspect it is probably because she already knew at some level what the author was reluctant to reveal at the time, even to himself. Later on, the author made a declaration that was probably already subliminally known to his family. As did his educational advancement,  this secret may have also contributed to his feeling of estrangement from his family and his culture. After all, in the world of machismo, the concept of homosexuality is one that many traditional Latino families still have difficulty accepting. It took the author many years to come to grips with his sexual orientation.  It was only years later that he publicly acknowledged what is evident to the discerning reader of this book.<br /><br />While the author has a voice that should be heard, his style of writing is often pedantic and somewhat strained. The construction can be quite  awkward and stilted, as if the author were stylistically distancing himself from his own life. So, while I find his critical analysis of certain issues to be on point and often brilliant, the style in which he conveys his thoughts, at times, acts as a distraction and an irritant. Still, for those readers who can look past some of the stylistic bombast, they will find a wellspring of insightful, critical analysis of social issues.	2005-05-08
248951:US	49355567	R2ZAOCNM0705Q4	0870671081	590048805	I Am Not Ashamed	Books	2	11	18	N	Y	I AM ASHAMED...	...for the time that I wasted in reading this book.  Barbara Payton was a Hollywood bad girl during the very conservative nineteen fifties, who managed to derail her career in short order.  As a starlet who streaked across the Hollywood skyline, she had her fifteen minutes of fame and then hit terra firma hard. She went from earning ten thousand dollars a week to turning five-dollar a night tricks in a relatively short period of time. By the time she \\"wrote\\" this book, she was little more than a wino whore, living in a rat and roach infested, flea bag apartment.<br /><br />Repetitious and poorly written, this autobiography, first published in 1963, is limited in many ways. Barbara Payton spends a great deal of time talking about booze, men, and sex, and little else. Other that her affairs with and marriages to actors Franchot Tone and Tom Neal, no other names are mentioned. Innuendo and fake names are the rule for this supposed \\"tell all\\" book. Other than her actual film roles, it is difficult to ascertain just what is fact and what is fantasy in this book.  Appealing solely to one's prurient interest, as it offers little insight into her life and its decline, this autobiography simply reads as if it were pulp fiction.	2005-05-07
257021:US	49355567	R3DYAKVSNVAIY5	0441827209	386997613	The Tudor Rose	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A ROSE LIKE NO OTHER...	The War of the Roses between the House of Lancaster and the House of York came to an end with the crowning of Edward IV as King of England. He went on to marry Elizabeth Woodville, a beautiful widow but a commoner. Their marriage was never popular with either the common people or the nobility, as the greed of the Woodville clan knew no bounds. Still, Edward IV and his Queen would go on to have a beautiful and large family of four daughters and two sons. Elizabeth of York was the eldest, and this is her story.<br /><br />Elizabeth led a life of privilege until the untimely death of her father. While her brother, Edward, was the heir apparent, he was still a young boy at the time of his father's death. He was to have been crowned King and a regency instituted, but at the eleventh hour, his uncle, Richard, brother of the late King, was declared the Protector of England. After placing Edward in the Tower, he persuaded  Elizabeth Woodville, who had sought sanctuary with her children, to entrust Richard, her younger son and his namesake, to him. She did so, and never again did she see either of her sons again. Shortly thereafter, Richard was crowned King of England, having declared his brother's marriage to Elizabeth Woodville invalid and, consequently, their children bastards.<br /><br />Eventually Elizabeth of York, her mother, and her sisters left sanctuary and went to live in the royal household of King Richard III.  Political intrigues  were to plague the reign of Richard III. Always at the heart of the discord was the mystery of what had happened to the young Princes in the Tower. Eventually, Henry Tudor, a descendant of the union of the Owen Tudor and Katherine, widow of Henry V, decided to challenge the kingship of Richard III. Henry was also a Lancastrian rival, as his mother, Margaret Beaufort, was a descendant of the union of John of Gaunt and Katherine Swynford.<br /><br />After Elizabeth of York secretly pledged to marry him, Henry Tudor landed in England and made a claim for the throne of England. On Bosworth Field Henry Tudor and King Richard III  met in battle, and the usurper was victorious, emerging by right of conquest as the new King of England, Henry VII. A cold and calculating man, he married Elizabeth of York to reinforce his claim upon the throne of England, as Elizabeth was considered by many to be the rightful Queen, given the mysterious disappearance of her two brothers.  This union of the houses of Lancaster and York was to solidify all of England. The red rose of Lancaster and the white rose of York would henceforth be melded together as the Tudor rose.<br /><br />Elizabeth's life with Henry would be a dispassionate union that would prove fruitful. They would have two boys, Arthur and Henry, as well as two girls, Margaret and Mary.  Elizabeth, however, would forever wonder what had happened to her brothers. The fact that the mystery of the Princes in the Tower was never resolved would continue to plague the reign of King Henry VII, as pretenders would arise, claiming to be one of the lost Princes. Rebellions were mounted in the name of these pretenders, and with each one, Lambert Simnel and Perkin Warbeck, Elizabeth's hopes would rise that her brothers were still alive, only to see them dashed. While the union between Henry VII and Elizabeth of York would not be a joyful one, as his cold and parsimonious ways were to distance him from her, England would, indeed,  prosper under their reign.<br /><br />The author, a novelist noted for her beautifully written historical fiction, weaves a wonderful tapestry of fact and fiction. The story of Elizabeth of York, oldest daughter of King Edward IV of England, is a fascinating fifteenth century tale of political intrigues, power, and love that will stay with the reader long after the last page is turned.  Historical personages and period detail come to life under the expert  hand of this accomplished author. Those readers who love the genre of historical fiction will most certainly enjoy this book, as will those who love a well-told tale.ill most certainly enjoy this book, as will those who love a well-told tale.	2005-05-01
257390:US	49355567	R15QNWAS18DWGV	0765305135	51793527	The Magdalen	Books	5	37	39	N	Y	THE MAGDALEN SISTERS...	It is little wonder that this book was a number one bestseller in Ireland, as it deals with a shameful episode in  its history, that of the Magdalen Laundries. Run by the Catholic Church, these were homes that were set up for \\"fallen\\" women. Originally set up for prostitutes, they devolved more into homes for unwed mothers. Young women, many of whom were teenagers,  who found themselves  unwed and pregnant, were often sent there by their families.  They would then work in the adjacent laundry of the home until they gave birth, at which time the child would be removed to an orphanage and placed for adoption.<br /><br />Many of these young women, called penitents by the Catholic Church, were often deserted by their families. They would then find themselves living a lifetime of servitude in the Magdalen Laundries for their transgression. That these laundries existed until 1996 is, in and of itself, scandalous and almost incomprehensible. This book gives a fictional account of such a woman. It is through her eyes that the reader sees the travesty that was known as the Magdalen Laundries.<br /><br />Esther Doyle was one such woman. She lived an isolated life in rural Connemara, where she was forced by her father to leave school at an early age, in order to help her mother around the house, after her mother gave birth to mentally challenged child in 1944. An intelligent but naive young girl, Esther would spend her days helping her mother and taking care of her baby sister, Nora Pat. After her father disappeared one night, while fishing at sea, and was later washed ashore, having drowned, life became hard for the Doyle family. Yet, left penniless,  they managed to survive.<br /><br />In 1951, Esther, now a pretty teenager, met a young, handsome ne'er-do-well named Conor O'Hagan at a dance. As he was not a local, having just moved to Connemara from West Cork, her family viewed him with some misgivings. Still, Esther found herself in the throes of first love with this young man, only to later find herself pregnant by him and then betrayed, when she discovered that he was also seeing someone else whom he intended to marry.<br /><br />Coupled with the fact that her younger sister, left momentarily unattended, died an unnecessary death, Esther's mother was less than sanguine about Esther's condition when it was discovered. Reviled by her mother and her brothers for the shame that her condition would bring upon the family, Esther was spirited away by her Aunt Patsy and sent to the Holy Saints Convent in Dublin. While there, she would work in its infamous Magdalen Laundry to earn her keep, while she awaited the birth of her baby.<br /><br />At the Holy Saints Convent and its Magdalen Laundry,  Esther would discover what hell on earth was. Harshly treated, given only the minimum of food necessary to survive, Esther would spend her days toiling in the hot, steamy laundry, along with other such women with whom she bonded in a unique sisterhood. Some of them were women who had spent their entire lives there. Some were the victims of rape and incest, while others were simply young, unwed mothers such as Esther. All were subject to the reign of terror orchestrated by the nuns who ran the Magdalen Laundry.<br /><br />It is at the Magdalen Laundry, however, that Esther's world view is broadened. It is through her suffering at the hands of those whom she had supposed would have protected her that Esther truly comes of age. When her child is born, Esther comes to think of herself as a person independent of her family and finds the courage to realize for herself a vision of a new life.  She envisions one outside the walls of the Magdalen Laundry and one beyond that of the family who had so cruelly renounced her in her hour of need.<br /><br />This book is written is crisp, clear, terse prose, with little sentimentality. It is a straightforward story that has overtones of the melancholia that often  permeates Irish Catholicism. For this book, such is simply fitting. This is a wonderful book that places one of Catholic Ireland's most shameful secrets on public display in a fictionalized setting that perfectly showcases it.<br /><br />Those readers who are interested in this subject matter will also enjoy the film, \\"The Magdalen Sisters\\", which also fictionalizes life in the Magdalen Laundries. One should view it on dvd, because the dvd contains a heartbreaking British documentary, \\"Sex in a Cold Climate\\",  which contains actual footage of the Magdalen Laundries and interviews of three survivors of the Magdalen Laundry experience.imply fitting. This is a wonderful book that places one of Catholic Ireland's most shameful secrets on public display in a fictionalized setting that perfectly showcases it.<br /><br />Those readers who are interested in this subject matter will also enjoy the film, \\"The Magdalen Sisters\\", which also fictionalizes life in the Magdalen Laundries. One should view it on dvd, because the dvd contains a heartbreaking British documentary, \\"Sex in a Cold Climate\\",  which contains actual footage of the Magdalen Laundries and interviews of three survivors of the Magdalen Laundry experience.	2005-05-01
258251:US	49355567	R2Y6XH8ZD8DGRV	0553289209	117681830	Deadly Relations	Books	3	5	10	N	N	FATHER DOES NOT ALWAYS KNOW BEST...	This  true crime book focuses on a prominent New Orleans nuclear family. The father, Leonard Fagot, was a handsome former marine and war hero, who became a wealthy attorney. Father to four beautiful girls, he made sure that they wanted for nothing in the dream house that he and his wife built. Unfortunately, as the girls grew up, their father seemed to change, exhibiting more and more of his less stellar personality traits. He became totally domineering and erratic in his behavior.<br /><br />When he made a troubled local teenager his girlfriend, practically keeping her under his wife's nose, the marriage disintegrated, and he began a personal downward spiral. His maniacal personality would see him insure the lives of his sons-in-law. When one of them died a seemingly accidental death, it was suspect, but when a second one bit the dust, it was definitely murder.  Coupled with the fact that Leonard Fagot would also maim himself, losing a hand and an eye in order to get the insurance money,  the reader may infer that he was certainly a disturbed individual.<br /><br />Told as a first person narrative by two of his daughters, the book suffers from an inability to distinguish between the voices of the two daughters. Moreover, it offers little analysis as to why this man would totally unravel towards the end of his life and undo a lifetime of work. Was it drugs, money, madness or all of the above that drove Leonard Fagot to do the unspeakable things that he did? Even after reading the book, the reader is left unsure. The daughters who wrote this book, one of whom testified against the father at his trial, are virtually unlikable, as is the rest of the family, rendering them unsympathetic in their tragedy.<br /><br />The book contains eight pages of black and white photographs and is moderately interesting at best. Only true crime enthusiasts will get a modicum of enjoyment from reading this mediocre book.	2005-04-30
281489:US	49355567	R21HTUADQ0DI5U	0712695591	479553896	Anne Boleyn	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	ANNE OF THE THOUSAND DAYS...	Having read many works of historical fiction on Anne Boleyn and King Henry VIII, it is always interesting to find an author who puts yet another twist on the disintegration of the relationship between these two fascinating historical figures. In this, noted author Evelyn Anthony succeeds. She also paints a well-fleshed portrait of a woman who would serve as the catalyst for some of the most significant changes in English history, as the relationship between Anne Boleyn and King Henry VIII would sow the seeds of change that would give rise to the Reformation and all the uncertainty and tumult that would follow.<br /><br />The book begins with the year 1526, by which time Anne Boleyn had been dismissed from the court of King Henry VIII. Severed from her first true love, Henry Percy, heir to the earldom of Northumberland and scion of one of the most powerful families in all of England, by order of Cardinal Wolsey, Anne had been cooling her heels at Hever Castle for the past year, while Percy was forced into marriage with another. Anne languished at Hever Castle with her family, not knowing that all this had occurred at the behest of Wolsey's master, King Henry VIII, in a fit of jealous pique. So, it was Wolsey who incurred her bitter enmity.<br /><br />When King Henry VIII rode into Hever Castle, he eventually mades his way into its lush gardens, where he encountered Anne Boleyn. There, he found himself once again smitten by her charms and discovered that they had a mutual love for music. The King found himself enamored of this intelligent and vivacious young woman, only to have Anne lead him a merry chase, and a long one at that. For Anne would, for many years, refuse to become his mistress, having seen what had happened to her younger sister, Mary, who had been the King's mistress and born him an illegitimate son, only to be unceremoniously dropped from favor and given in marriage to a lowly knight.<br /><br />For Anne, such a fate was not for her. So, since love had been torn from her heart, she let ambition govern her, seeking nothing less than to be crowned Queen of England, to have her enemy, Wolsey, brought low, and to rule the heart of King Henry VIII. This was, indeed, a tall order for her to fill. While she was able to vanquish both her predecessor, Katherine of Aragon, and her enemy, Cardinal Wolsey, she would rule Henry's heart but only for so long. In the end, her sense of self-importance, along with her sharp tongue, would be her undoing. In unmanning Henry, she would be instrumental in sealing her own fate, as well as that of those who were close to her, as Henry would ultimately seek to let her know who was master. As great as his love for her had been, so was his eventual hatred, and nothing would gainsay his vengeance upon her.<br /><br />Set against the intrigues and pageantry of the magnificent sixteenth century Tudor Court, this is a book that those who enjoy well-written historical fiction will love. The author provides an insightful glimpse into the psyche of one of the most fascinating women in history, a woman who would brook no others before her, only to find herself done in by her own worst enemy: herself.been torn from her heart, she let ambition govern her, seeking nothing less than to be crowned Queen of England, to have her enemy, Wolsey, brought low, and to rule the heart of King Henry VIII. This was, indeed, a tall order for her to fill. While she was able to vanquish both her predecessor, Katherine of Aragon, and her enemy, Cardinal Wolsey, she would rule Henry's heart but only for so long. In the end, her sense of self-importance, along with her sharp tongue, would be her undoing. In unmanning Henry, she would be instrumental in sealing her own fate, as well as that of those who were close to her, as Henry would ultimately seek to let her know who was master. As great as his love for her had been, so was his eventual hatred, and nothing would gainsay his vengeance upon her.<br /><br />Set against the intrigues and pageantry of the magnificent sixteenth century Tudor Court, this is a book that those who enjoy well-written historical fiction will love. The author provides an insightful glimpse into the psyche of one of the most fascinating women in history, a woman who would brook no others before her, only to find herself done in by her own worst enemy: herself.	2005-04-11
281598:US	49355567	R2YHFLA8DBG0VI	0671889869	625134176	Across Time And Death: A Mother's Search For Her Past Life Children	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A FASCINATING LOOK AT REINCARNATION...	I first read about the strange story of Jenny Cockell and her search for her past life children in \\"People\\" magazine many years ago and found it fascinating. I did not realize that she had written a book about her experience, until I happened to catch a movie on cable television that was titled, \\"Yesterday's Children\\", starring Jane Seymour. As soon as I saw the film, I realized that it was the story of the woman about whom I had read so many years before. When I saw that the film was based upon a book that she had written about her experience, I immediately ordered the book from Amazon.<br /><br />The book is an intriguing look at the concept of reincarnation. Jenny Cockell's experience would tend to support such a concept. Ever since she was a child, Jenny was haunted by dreams and fragments of a past life, of Mary, a woman who had died twenty one years before Jenny was born, of children who were Mary's but whom Jenny felt were, nonetheless, her own, of a town in Ireland in which she had lived as Mary.  So, when Jenny Cockell was a woman in her thirties, she decided to investigate those memories. Always at the forefront of her mind were thoughts of those children of long ago. What she would discover would give even the most hardened nay-sayer food for thought.<br /><br />This is a well-written, persuasive account of a past life, as well as the story of a mother's love for her children, a love that would reach across time and transcend temporal reality. For those who discount the concept of reincarnation and think that this is all that there is, I would suggest that they read this book and think again.	2005-04-11
300215:US	49355567	RS2W1QG3Z6OF7	0816160341	746262058	King's Daughters	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	THE DAUGHTERS OF KING EDWARD I OF ENGLAND...	This is a lightweight, frothy work of romantic historical fiction about the daughters of the thirteenth century King of England, Edward I.  It focuses on Elizabeth, his youngest daughter, who against her wishes married the weak and childish Jan, the Earl of Holland, even though her heart belonged to the handsome heir to the Earldom of Hereford, Humphrey de Bohun. The author also sketches a rough portrait of the King's other daughters, Eleanora, Joanna, Margaret, and Mary.<br /><br />The author indicates that the life of a princess was often an unhappy one, as princesses were used as pawns to secure advantageous alliances irrespective of choice or desire on the part of the respective princess. Many a princess was forced to marry a man whom she did not love or with whom she had nothing in common. The daughters of King Edward I were no exception. Still, it appears that Edward I had some compassion for his daughters.<br /><br />When Eleanor's first husband died, he allowed her to make a love match. When Joanna's husband died, Joanna began a love affair with a handsome and goodhearted common squire whom she arranged to have knighted. She then married him without her father's permission. This love match was to cause a temporary rift in her relationship with her father and caused her husband to suffer the indignity of imprisonment for a time. King Edward I later forgave Joanna and grew to like his new son-in-law very much, elevating him in rank to a station more appropriate for the husband of one of his beloved daughters.<br /><br />Unfortunately, Margaret had the marriage from hell, as she was married to a man whom she intensely disliked and who liked her no better, while Mary was bitter over having to take the veil and vows of a nun, a calling for which she had no vocation. The book, however, is primarily Elizabeth's story, as the reader sees events unfold through her eyes.  As the youngest daughter, she witnessed the hell that her sisters suffered, as they were initially married to men whom they did not love and who did not love them. Elizabeth dreaded the thought of her marriage to Jan, the Earl of Holland, more so because she was in love with Humphrey de Bohun.<br /><br />Still, Elizabeth did her duty and married Jan, despite the fact that her heart belonged to another. She eventually went to live in Holland with her husband, only to find that he was under the complete control of the Regent. Despite Elizabeth's counsel, Jan would continue under the thumb of the Regent, who took unheard of liberties with the power vested in him by virtue of the Regency, leading to a sad state of affairs in Holland. When Jan died a premature death, the only question that Elizabeth had was whether or not her father would marry her off to another man she did not love.<br /><br />This is a moderately enjoyable book that is plagued by somewhat mediocre writing. Unfortunately, the author does not appear to have the writing talent with which her father, historical novelist Thomas B. Costain, was gifted. Still, for those who enjoy light, romantic historical fiction, this books holds some entertainment value.y married to men whom they did not love and who did not love them. Elizabeth dreaded the thought of her marriage to Jan, the Earl of Holland, more so because she was in love with Humphrey de Bohun.<br /><br />Still, Elizabeth did her duty and married Jan, despite the fact that her heart belonged to another. She eventually went to live in Holland with her husband, only to find that he was under the complete control of the Regent. Despite Elizabeth's counsel, Jan would continue under the thumb of the Regent, who took unheard of liberties with the power vested in him by virtue of the Regency, leading to a sad state of affairs in Holland. When Jan died a premature death, the only question that Elizabeth had was whether or not her father would marry her off to another man she did not love.<br /><br />This is a moderately enjoyable book that is plagued by somewhat mediocre writing. Unfortunately, the author does not appear to have the writing talent with which her father, historical novelist Thomas B. Costain, was gifted. Still, for those who enjoy light, romantic historical fiction, this books holds some entertainment value.	2005-03-27
305752:US	49355567	R3L91O3I30W9M7	088064124X	318968787	Farewell Sidonia	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	FAREWELL, MY LOVELY...	This is the tragic, but true, story of little Sidonia Adlersburg who, in 1933, as an infant, was abandoned by her Gypsy mother in the small town of Steyr, Austria. She was eventually taken in by a working class couple with leftist-socialist sentiments, Hans and Josepha Breirather. They became her foster parents, nurturing  and caring  for the sickly child, until she blossomed under their ministrations.<br /><br />Unfortunately for Sidonia, the Nazis came to power and with it came the Aryan ideal. When Austria fell to the German juggernaut, fear and suspicion abounded. Anything and everything different stood out, and with her dark, Gypsy looks, Sidonia found herself eventually caught in the eye of a storm. Despite having lived in the town for ten years as the beloved child of her foster parents, who were well-liked by the towns people, forces conspired to end Sidonia's happiness as the Nazis rose to power, becoming a force with which to be reckoned.<br /><br />In 1943, Sidonia's happiness came to an abrupt end at the age of ten, when she was ordered, against the vehement wishes of her foster parents, to be returned to her Gypsy mother, whom Sidonia never knew. Although the towns people themselves could have assisted in stopping this travesty, as their input was, in fact, sought by the powers that be, they did little to ensure that Sidonia would remain among their midst. Her teachers, social worker, and others gave the powers that be little  reason for letting the child that they had known for her entire life stay with the only parents that she had ever known.<br /><br />Considering that the Gypsies who used to annually pass through their town were no longer to be seen, and the Nazis' opinion of the Gypsies was all too clear, the towns people whose input was sought  had to have been cognizant of the fate that was to eventually await little Sidonia were she to be removed from her foster parents' protection. They knew, and they did not care. This was to be the legacy of this town.<br /><br />While this is a compelling story, I must confess that I did not find the author's writing style to be especially so. Perhaps it is the translation that hampers my appreciation of this acclaimed Austrian author who has been touted as \\"one of the great hopes of German-language literature\\".  While this is the second book by this author that I have read,  it will probably be the last.this town.<br /><br />While this is a compelling story, I must confess that I did not find the author's writing style to be especially so. Perhaps it is the translation that hampers my appreciation of this acclaimed Austrian author who has been touted as \\"one of the great hopes of German-language literature\\".  While this is the second book by this author that I have read,  it will probably be the last.	2005-03-22
308390:US	49355567	R2ZG5HQBDG1V42	0441373747	412850570	Isabel the Fair	Books	5	20	22	N	Y	THE WOMAN BEHIND THE THRONE...	In this well-written book, set amidst the pageantry and tumult of the fourteenth century, the author expertly chronicles the tragic story of Isabel the Fair, daughter of King Philip of France, who became wife to Edward II, King of England. Their marriage would prove to be the undoing of both of them.<br /><br />Unfortunately for Isabel, her charms, while a hit with the English people who adored her,  were apparently lost on Edward who, quite charming and attractive himself, seemed to have eyes only for those of the same sex. In particular, he had a very strong attachment to Piers Gaveston,  a childhood friend with whom he had been raised. It appears that his relationship with Gaveston was of a romantic nature, and Isabel found herself taking a backseat to these two lovers, a position that did not sit well with the beautiful and resentful Isabel, whose only desire had been to have a happy marriage.<br /><br />Moreover, Edward II's relationship with Piers Gaveston was totally indiscreet and, as a royal favorite, Gaveston incurred the enmity of the all powerful barons of England who looked upon Edward II as a weak king unable to govern his kingdom properly. Consequently, England would always seem to be on the brink of civil war during his reign. Still, King Edward II did his duty in terms of securing an heir, and, though an errant husband,  he would prove to be a loving father. He and Isabel would have several children with Isabel functioning as a royal brood mare, a role that she was to resent.<br /><br />The affair with Gaveston reached scandalous proportions and even temporary exile to Ireland did not cool Gaveston's and Edward II's ardor. When Gaveston returned to England, it would be the beginning of the end for these two lovers, with Gaveston meeting a fate that would forever cause Edward II to grieve.  After the death of Piers Gaveston, it was hoped by all that the relationship between Edward II and Isabel would normalize, but a new favorite, Hugh the Dispenser, would succeed Gaveston, and once again, Isabel would find herself to be a third wheel. This time, however, Hugh the Dispenser, lacking Gaveston's innate charm,  would prove himself detestable to those of Edward II's court. He would also seek to separate the King from Isabel, becoming her implacable enemy.<br /><br />The ensuing estrangement from her husband would act as the catalyst for Isabel's alliance with a powerful and ambitious border lord in exile, Roger Mortimer. He  would become her lover and set in motion events that were to see Hugh the Dispenser executed and King Edward II deposed. Edward III, son of Isabel and Edward II,  would be crowned King of England, while his father still  lived.  Shortly after, Edward II would meet a  most heinous death, one that would cause his son to root out those who he believed had murdered his father. Unfortunately, as much as King Edward III loved his mother, he hated Roger Mortimer. What would happen to them both would be a curious justice for his father's ignominious death.<br /><br />This is a wonderful book that examines those events that led to the deposition and death of Edward II. The author paints a somewhat sympathetic portrait of Isabel, the wronged wife who sought to be loved as a man loves a woman, and who found solace, however short-lived, as well as intrigue, in the arms of Roger Mortimer. The author grounds the events in the  context  of the political and social mores of the tumultuous fourteenth century. Awash with vivid period detail and peppered with the names of those who would have lasting historical impact, it is an entertaining, as well as informative, work of historical fiction.would succeed Gaveston, and once again, Isabel would find herself to be a third wheel. This time, however, Hugh the Dispenser, lacking Gaveston's innate charm,  would prove himself detestable to those of Edward II's court. He would also seek to separate the King from Isabel, becoming her implacable enemy.<br /><br />The ensuing estrangement from her husband would act as the catalyst for Isabel's alliance with a powerful and ambitious border lord in exile, Roger Mortimer. He  would become her lover and set in motion events that were to see Hugh the Dispenser executed and King Edward II deposed. Edward III, son of Isabel and Edward II,  would be crowned King of England, while his father still  lived.  Shortly after, Edward II would meet a  most heinous death, one that would cause his son to root out those who he believed had murdered his father. Unfortunately, as much as King Edward III loved his mother, he hated Roger Mortimer. What would happen to them both would be a curious justice for his father's ignominious death.<br /><br />This is a wonderful book that examines those events that led to the deposition and death of Edward II. The author paints a somewhat sympathetic portrait of Isabel, the wronged wife who sought to be loved as a man loves a woman, and who found solace, however short-lived, as well as intrigue, in the arms of Roger Mortimer. The author grounds the events in the  context  of the political and social mores of the tumultuous fourteenth century. Awash with vivid period detail and peppered with the names of those who would have lasting historical impact, it is an entertaining, as well as informative, work of historical fiction.	2005-03-20
317873:US	49355567	RL2447PTZCCX7	0330231812	631907807	Story of Christy Brown	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A TESTAMENT TO THE RESILIENCY OF THE HUMAN SPIRIT...	This is the story of a young man who was born in Ireland in 1932, after a difficult birth and with a severe disability that the doctors of the time were unable to name. They urged his parents to disavow him, as he was, they believed, an imbecile with a severely spastic body. Moreover, his parents then had five other children, all healthy. Christy's mother, however, refused to institutionalize him, keeping him at home and treating him as she would her other children. It would not be until years later that she would learn that Christy's affliction was severe cerebral palsy.<br /><br />Imprisoned in a world all his own and seeming without means to communicate, Christy, at the age of five, made an attempt at communication that was to change his life forever. By breaking the communications barrier, Christy demonstrated that he could learn and understand. From then on, his capacity for learning was prodigious. Who would have thought that within his severely contorted and convulsed body lay a razor sharp mind and a thirst for knowledge? Certainly not the medical community, which had been so willing to consign him to institutional living. Armed with his left foot, the only part of his body over which he seemed to have some control, Christy Brown would demonstrate to the world who he really was. He was, after all, not the imbecile that the medical community had originally thought but an intelligent and sentient human being.<br /><br />This is Christy Brown's triumphant and inspirational story of his battle to learn to read, write, and paint, all with the aid of his left foot. It is an inspirational story of his quest for fulfillment. His yearning to be as others are is palpable, and his struggle for acceptance beyond the borders of his home and his physical limitations are well articulated. Christy Brown gives the reader a birds-eye view of what it is like to be a person with severe cerebral palsy. First published in Great Britain in 1954, when Christy Brown was twenty-two, this book, written with his left foot, is a testament to the resiliency of the human spirit.this book, written with his left foot, is a testament to the resiliency of the human spirit.	2005-03-12
318079:US	49355567	RKGCVSMBD4JNV	0373720092	453504523	Mountain Witness	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	THEY'RE HERE!...	Prolific author, Dean Koontz, has used many pseudonyms over the years, but this 1975 sci-fi novella is the first and only book that he published under the pseudonym Aaron Wolfe. So, the book's highly laudatory introduction by noted science fiction writer, Barry Malzberg, is technically correct when stating that this is Aaron Wolfe's first novel. Dean Koontz, however, had already had other works published under his own name, as well as under other pseudonyms.<br /><br />Unlike the author's later opuses, brevity seems to be the key here, as the book is a scant one hundred and ninety pages. In this case, less is sometime more. It is a wonderfully effective work. The author weaves an entertaining and suspenseful story around a small nuclear family living on an isolated three hundred acre farm in a rural area of Maine. Don, his wife, Connie, and their ten year old son, Toby, are living in relative peace. Alien invasion is the furthest thing from their minds.<br /><br />In December, when the snowstorms first hit them, they begin noticing large, odd shaped tracks by the woods near their home. Later, they find those same strange tracks by their barn. Then, the horses in the barn begin behaving strangely, their whinnying cries sending out a distress signal. Mysterious amber lights appear unexpectedly outside the barn and by the house. Something seems to be definitely awry. When the snow reaches blizzard proportions, Don, Connie, and Toby find themselves cut-off from civilization. With no working telephone service, no available transportation, and no nearby neighbors, they are left to fend for themselves when the unthinkable happens.<br /><br />This alien invasion yarn is tightly written and has a few unexpected twists. It is totally plot driven and is a quick, easy, enjoyable read for those readers who enjoy science fiction and the works of Dean Koontz. This books bears some similarities to his later work, \\"Winter Moon\\", which I have also read and enjoyed. As I am a fan of Dean Koontz, reading one of his earlier works was a definite treat.ean Koontz, reading one of his earlier works was a definite treat.	2005-03-12
318758:US	49355567	R32H1O1P18L6KT	0553562967	96085944	Bellwether	Books	4	18	23	N	N	LIGHT-HEARTED SATIRE...	This is a light and breezy read. It is humorous and somewhat satiric. What it is not, is science fiction. It is, however, about a group of scientists, and it is definitely fiction. The book is written in an imaginative way, with each chapter beginning with a paragraph giving information about a particular fad that caught the imagination of society at one time or another. Written quite tongue in cheek, the book is a funny and light-hearted look at life, love, corporate dysfunction, and the herd mentality society sometimes adopts. While the book is not at all what I had expected, I rather enjoyed it.<br /><br />The main protagonist is Sandra Foster, a social scientist who studies fads, tracking down their origins and analyzing what they mean. She works for the HiTek Corporation, a company laden with a surfeit of corporate bureaucracy. So does Bennett O'Reilly, a chaos theorist, whom Sandra meets when a package goes astray within the work place. They eventually join forces and begin working together on a special project with a flock of sheep as their guinea pigs. The book basically shows how chaos serves to unite these two in a way that they could not have imagined.	2005-03-11
326283:US	49355567	RC4JIA2IUK8W1	0140288147	90179939	The Emigrants I and II	Books	5	2	2	N	N	HISTORICAL FICTION ABOUT 19th CENTURY SWEDISH EMIGRATION...	This is an epic work by its Swedish author. Translated from Swedish into English, this beautifully written book of historical fiction was first published in the nineteen fifties as two individual works, \\"The Emigrants\\" and \\"Unto a Good Land\\",  both of which met with critical acclaim at the time. They are part of a four part fictional opus on the nineteenth century Swedish emigrant experience. The two subsequent books that complete the opus are \\"The Settlers\\", and \\"Last Letter From Home\\".<br /><br />In the first part of this edition, \\"The Emigrants\\",  the author lays the ground work for the emigration of a Swedish family, grounding it in the reasons for the exodus of so many  Swedes from their mother country in the middle of the nineteenth century. The focus of this part of the book is on the family, relatives, and friends of  Karl Oscar Nilsson, a peasant farmer who unceasingly worked his farm, only to find that, no matter what he did, he could not progress and would continue to live on the cusp of total poverty. Gathering up his family and friends of the family, he decides to take the monumental step of making a fresh start by emigrating to the new world, specifically the United States of America.<br /><br />The author details the personal set backs the Nilsson family encounters in Sweden, as it is their travails that act as the catalyst for such a journey. This part of the book grounds the reader in the Swedish social and religious mores of the time, and the impact that such would have on this particular group of people. The author enables the reader to understand why some would risk all to begin life anew in an unknown part of the world, taking the reader through the nature of the lives of the Nilsson family in Sweden, their decision to make such a journey, and  their subsequent sea voyage to the new world.<br /><br />The second part of the book, \\"Unto a Good Land\\",  focuses on the arrival of the Nilsson family and friends in the United States of America. It details their journey from New York, a journey that was to take them across the Midwest by rail, steamer, and foot, to arrive in the wilds of what would one day be the State of Minnesota. It is in this wilderness that the Nilsson family and friends would homestead and struggle to make a new home. The author regales the reader with the travails this hardy group of settlers would encounter in their efforts to create by the sweat of their brow a new home in the wilderness. The early struggles of the Nilsson family to succeed in what was an unknown frontier is engagingly chronicled.<br /><br />This is a book that those who love historical fiction will greatly enjoy. Bravo!ils their journey from New York, a journey that was to take them across the Midwest by rail, steamer, and foot, to arrive in the wilds of what would one day be the State of Minnesota. It is in this wilderness that the Nilsson family and friends would homestead and struggle to make a new home. The author regales the reader with the travails this hardy group of settlers would encounter in their efforts to create by the sweat of their brow a new home in the wilderness. The early struggles of the Nilsson family to succeed in what was an unknown frontier is engagingly chronicled.<br /><br />This is a book that those who love historical fiction will greatly enjoy. Bravo!	2005-03-05
327191:US	49355567	R1FWZTQCTBFFFM	0140288155	439085841	The Emigrants III and IV The Settlers and Last Letter Home	Books	5	3	3	N	N	THE SWEDISH STATE OF MINNESOTA...	This is an epic work by its Swedish author, who is considered to be one of Sweden's greatest writers. Translated from Swedish into English,  this beautifully written  work of historical fiction contains the last two books in a four part fictional opus on the nineteenth century Swedish emigrant experience, \\"The Settlers\\", which was first published in 1956, and \\"Last Letter Home\\", which was first published in 1961. The first two books in this critically acclaimed quartet  are \\"The Emigrants\\" and \\"Unto a Good Land\\".  In these wonderful books, the Swedish emigrant experience is viewed through the lives of the fictional Nilsson family and their friends. One should read these books in the order in which they were written for maximum reading pleasure, even though each book can stand on its own.<br /><br />In \\"The Settlers\\", the third part of the author's opus, he continues the saga of the Nilsson family and their friends. It is the story of a group of Swedes who emigrated to the United States and then struggled to prevail in  Minnesota, an alien land of harsh, inhospitable winters and scorching summers. The book continues to chronicle their lives and their adaptation to the adopted country that they would forever call home. It tells the story of the divided Nilsson brothers, each of whom would  forge a path alien to the other. The author hones in on the fact that the early settlers were subject to being taken advantage of  by the unscrupulous. He highlights the mass migration of disaffected Swedes to Minnesota and details their contribution to the prosperity of that part of the country. The author shows how these early Swedish settlers consolidated themselves into a thriving, bustling community, despite the obstacles and hardships that were to be their lot  in the early years of their struggle to make the new land yield to their will.<br /><br />The fourth and last part,  \\"Last Letter Home\\", is a bittersweet continuation of the story of the Nilsson family, as well as that of their friends. With the fabric of their lives now firmly woven into the tapestry of their adopted country and with the birth of a  new generation, they  have earned the right to call themselves Americans. With their destiny now firmly intertwined with that of their adopted country, they face new challenges in this new country. Having conquered the wilderness and having achieved a measure of stability and comfort, they believe that the worst is over, only to find themselves thrust into a Civil War. Moreover, the blood of their friends and family would be shed, as a Sioux uprising, an angry outgrowth of broken treaties and governmental promises, wreaks havoc in Minnesota and its surrounding environs, a region mostly inhabited by Swedish settlers.  Still, the Nilssons prevail and leave their mark, not only on the pages of these books but in the heart of the reader.<br /><br />I have  enjoyed all four volumes of this well-written and vibrant epic work. The author, a master storyteller, has woven a captivating  tapestry alive with period detail and beloved characters. These are books that those who  enjoy historical fiction will love reading. Bravo!of their friends. With the fabric of their lives now firmly woven into the tapestry of their adopted country and with the birth of a  new generation, they  have earned the right to call themselves Americans. With their destiny now firmly intertwined with that of their adopted country, they face new challenges in this new country. Having conquered the wilderness and having achieved a measure of stability and comfort, they believe that the worst is over, only to find themselves thrust into a Civil War. Moreover, the blood of their friends and family would be shed, as a Sioux uprising, an angry outgrowth of broken treaties and governmental promises, wreaks havoc in Minnesota and its surrounding environs, a region mostly inhabited by Swedish settlers.  Still, the Nilssons prevail and leave their mark, not only on the pages of these books but in the heart of the reader.<br /><br />I have  enjoyed all four volumes of this well-written and vibrant epic work. The author, a master storyteller, has woven a captivating  tapestry alive with period detail and beloved characters. These are books that those who  enjoy historical fiction will love reading. Bravo!	2005-03-05
335246:US	49355567	R2PUX80C8IU19A	1586482831	795893038	Caesar's Hours: My Life In Comedy, With Love and Laughter	Books	5	18	18	N	N	HAIL, CAESAR!...	This is a wonderful memoir that takes the reader down memory lane. As anyone one reading this biography knows, Sid Caesar was one of the foremost comedians of his time. In fact, he was actually ranked the third all time great  comedian (after Jackie Gleason and Lucille Ball) by a documentary about the greatest comedians of all time, which documentary was featured on the A & E cable television channel.<br /><br />I know that my parents used to watch Cid Caesar's ground breaking television program, \\"Your  Show of Shows\\".  I myself was too young to have any recollection of it. I do, however, recall that as a young child, together with my family, I watched his subsequent show in the latter half of the nineteen fifties, \\"Caesar's Hour\\".  Sid Caesar was the then king of  comedy, and he broke trail for many of the comedians that were to follow him.  Many of the greatest comedic writers to ever write for television started out writing for his shows. Greats such as Neil Simon, Mel Brooks, Carl Reiner, and Woody Allen were among some of his writers. No wonder that era was heralded as the Golden Age of Television!<br /><br />In his memoir, Sid Caesar talks only a little about himself on a very personal level. Still, he comes across as an intelligent man who dearly loves his wife of over sixty years. He acknowledges his personal foibles, such as a drinking problem that, at times,  threatened to overwhelm him, as well as a never ending quest for creative perfection. This book is not so much about Caesar, the man, but rather about Caesar, the performing artist. Consequently, Sid Caesar the man remains a bit of a mystery. On the other hand, Sid Caesar, the performer, comes vividly to life. This is more of an artistic autobiography rather than a personal one.<br /><br />He lovingly reminisces about how he got his start on the road to fame and fortune. Born in 1922 in Yonkers, New York, to Jewish immigrants from Poland and Russia, Sid was an accomplished musician who could play the saxophone with the best of them.  Having started out as  a musician,  Sid Caesar would cut his  comedic teeth in the borscht belt of the Catskill Mountains. It was there that he would also meet Florence, the love of his life. At the onset of World War II, Sid would play with a number of orchestras in Manhattan, before signing up with the Coast Guard in 1942, and in 1943 he married his beloved Florence.<br /><br />While in the Coast Guard, Sid became part of a successful revue for the troops, which raised his profile. This propelled him to Hollywood after his discharge from the Coast Guard, where he would become involved in the movie industry, starring in a number of comedies. From there, he would go on to perform for the nightclub circuit on the East Coast.  Sid was not a stand-up comedian, but rather, a comedic sketch artist. From there it would be a short trip to Broadway, where Sid would achieve tremendous success in a revue called \\"Make Mine Manhattan\\", in which he would turn in an award-winning performance. This would lead him right to television, which was still in its nascent stage, and into the homes and hearts of millions of Americans.<br /><br />This book is chock full of information on the early days of television, which had more in common with theatre and stage work than with film, as it was live television. Undoubtedly, this factor was responsible for much of the frenetic pace and spontaneity which existed. Today, television is more like film rather than stage work, as very little is shot live. Sid Caesar lovingly lays out for the reader many of his comedic sketches that were his special shtick. He meticulously explains how his comedic routines were fashioned and performed.<br /><br />He speaks glowingly about  his wonderful professional partnership with the late Imogene Coca, the googly-eyed comedienne, with whom he would be in perfect comedic harmony. They would make beautiful music together with their hilarious sketches that parodied slices of life and the human condition. Together, these two would touch a chord among audiences that would forever enshrine them in television history, making them the golden couple of the Golden Age of Television.<br /><br />This is an engaging artistic biography that will appeal to fans of Sid Caesar and to those with an interest in the early years of television. Those readers who enjoy memoirs and biographies will likewise find this to be a worthwhile and interesting book.nd the human condition. Together, these two would touch a chord among audiences that would forever enshrine them in television history, making them the golden couple of the Golden Age of Television.<br /><br />This is an engaging artistic biography that will appeal to fans of Sid Caesar and to those with an interest in the early years of television. Those readers who enjoy memoirs and biographies will likewise find this to be a worthwhile and interesting book.	2005-02-26
335558:US	49355567	R2UGEESR5HOO0E	0446608319	862017203	The Visionary	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	A GOOD SUSPENSEFUL THRILLER...	This solid debut novel is a fast-paced, suspenseful  thriller that readers who like this genre will enjoy. While the writing may be somewhat pedestrian and the book is certainly more plot driven that character driven, the book is a definite page turner, with enough red herrings thrown in the mix to keep the reader guessing.<br /><br />The plot revolves around an unknown serial killer who is ritualistically slaughtering young blonde women in their homes. Detective Danny Talon of the Los Angeles Police Department, who has  some personal issues, is assigned to solve this case, one that may make or break him. Realizing that he has a serial killer on his hand and that this is his last chance dance to salvage his career, he pulls out all the stops and  turns to lawyer-psychiatrist Dr. Michael Rennick for some assistance as to the psyche of the killer.<br /><br />Meanwhile, a young and beautiful accountant, Lisa Cleary, who has her own personal issues, begins to have some disturbing visions, which are waking nightmares of women being murdered in ritualistic fashion. She seeks the help of a renowned psychiatrist, Dr. Michael Rennick, who realizes that what Lisa is envisioning is what Detective Talon is investigating. Eventually, Lisa, Dr. Rennick, and Detective Talon all join forces to stop the killer before it is too late.<br /><br />This is a book that is quite suspenseful. Even if the reader should guess who the serial killer really is, the reader will still keep turning the pages of this book to find out why. It is a very well done debut novel with an excellent storyline.  An easy, breezy, page-turning read, it is a book that those readers who enjoy suspenseful thrillers will like.	2005-02-26
336021:US	49355567	R3HT2A9TQNB7AT	0825515408	426528630	My Lady of Cleves	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	THE GREAT FLANDER'S MARE...	After I read this author's terrific book on Anne Boleyn,  \\"Brief Gaudy Hour\\",  I knew that I would read more by this excellent author. I was delighted to discover that she had also written a book about another woman who had married King Henry VIII, Anne of Cleves, wife number four. I was fortunate enough to have been able to find a copy of this long out of print book, and I was not disappointed.<br /><br />This is a wonderful work of historical fiction of one of the lesser known wives of King Henry VIII, Anne of Cleves, who was a young Flemish princess of the Duchy of Cleves. When Jane Seymour, wife number three, died shortly after giving birth to the future King Edward VI of England, counselors to King Henry VIII  urged him to marry again for reasons of state. As this vain monarch was by this time a bit of a hard sell, given the fact that his first three wives had died unhappy deaths and he was no longer young, fit and handsome,  pickings were slim. His Lord Chancellor, Thomas Cromwell, urged upon him an alliance of political expediency between Cleves and England, in hopes of buttressing England's new found Protestantism, as Cleves was a Lutheran stronghold.<br /><br />King Henry VIII provisionally agreed, provided that  one of the two princesses of Cleves, Anne or Amelia,  was to his liking. So, he commissioned renowned court painter, Hans Holbein, to go to Cleves and paint miniatures of these two princesses of Cleves. When Han Holbein arrived in Cleves, he painted miniature portraits of both Anne and Amelia. While Amelia was the more superficially attractive one, Hans Holbein saw something in Anne that transcended physical beauty, and, being the  artist that he was, his vision transposed itself onto the miniature portrait that he painted of Anne, creating a portrait of exquisite sweetness. When King Henry VIII saw it, there was no question but that Anne of Cleves would be his fourth wife.<br /><br />Unfortunately, when they met, Anne did not live up to his expectations, referring to her in pejorative terms as a great \\"Flanders mare\\".  Anne was on the tall side, a large-boned and  buxom woman, while King Henry VIII had a penchant for petite, slender women. Moreover, coming from a strict Lutheran duchy, Anne had none of the expected accomplishments that were de rigueur for the Tudor Court. Anne could not sing, dance, or play a musical instrument, nor was she particularly well educated in scholarly pursuits. Her education had been of a more pedestrian nature and geared to more housewifely pursuits such as the running of a household.<br /><br />Consequently, Henry and Anne were like oil and vinegar, never really able to come together as one. From then on, Anne's life as Queen of England was to be one of humiliation. Henry made no secret of his dissatisfaction and worked to disengage himself from this marriage, as he liked her not. Although Henry looked to cast Anne aside and had already set his sights on wife number five, the beautiful teenager, Catherine Howard, who was one of Anne's own ladies-in-waiting, Anne continued about her business with dignity. Henry's children loved her, as did many who would come in contact with her, as she had none of the affectations or grasping  and jaded behavior  associated with those who populated the Tudor Court. She was a straightforward, intelligent, and kindly woman who was not given to being anything other than what she was.<br /><br />When the issue of divorce reared its ugly head, Anne, ever practical, reluctantly agreed and in return received several estates and palaces, a handsome pension, and the dubious distinction of ever more being known as the King's sister, taking precedence over all except for the King and the King's children, and any future Queen. She would go on to live her own life. Of course, the author gives this story a fresh spin, weaving in a secret attachment that Anne of Cleves and Han Holbein  shared for each other. It is this deep and abiding platonic love that would sustain Anne through her deepest and darkest hours in England. The author also gives an eye-opening twist on the post-divorce relationship of Anne and Henry.<br /><br />This is simply yet another terrific work of historical fiction by this author. She expertly weaves a colorful tapestry of fact and fiction against the backdrop of the splendor of the magnificent Tudor Court, creating a three dimensional story around some of the most interesting personages in history. This book takes the reader on a spellbinding journey through the life of Anne of Cleves. It continues her story through two more wives, Catherine Howard and Katherine Parr, and the death of King Henry VIII, whom  Anne herself would outlive by about ten years. This  is a book that will thoroughly engage and entertain the reader. It is of particular interest since there is a paucity of books on the story of Anne of Cleves. Bravo!d sustain Anne through her deepest and darkest hours in England. The author also gives an eye-opening twist on the post-divorce relationship of Anne and Henry.<br /><br />This is simply yet another terrific work of historical fiction by this author. She expertly weaves a colorful tapestry of fact and fiction against the backdrop of the splendor of the magnificent Tudor Court, creating a three dimensional story around some of the most interesting personages in history. This book takes the reader on a spellbinding journey through the life of Anne of Cleves. It continues her story through two more wives, Catherine Howard and Katherine Parr, and the death of King Henry VIII, whom  Anne herself would outlive by about ten years. This  is a book that will thoroughly engage and entertain the reader. It is of particular interest since there is a paucity of books on the story of Anne of Cleves. Bravo!	2005-02-26
336564:US	49355567	R2AMW8ONVBRGKK	0671413260	59773996	Daughter of Time	Books	5	2	2	N	N	THERE IS MORE TO THIS THAN MEETS THE EYE...	This is a wonderful genre bending book...part mystery, part history. Written by Scotswoman  Elizabeth MacIntosh, who wrote under the pen name Josephine Tey, it was first published in 1951. It is tragic that the author died in 1952 and was never to know the pleasure that this book would bring to generations of readers and that the Mystery Writers of America would ultimately rank it fourth among the one hundred best mysteries ever written.<br /><br />The title of the book is derived from a historical source, as it is attributable to Sir Francis Bacon, \\"For truth is rightly named after the daughter of time, and not of authority.\\" The book itself is not a traditional mystery but rather an application of deductive reasoning to an actual historical event. The event in question is the murder of the princes in the tower, sons of King Edward IV,  allegedly by their uncle, Richard III, who eventually usurped the English throne after the death of his brother. It has been widely held that Richard III did, indeed,  murder the two young princes, his nephews, in order to secure his claim to the throne.<br /><br />The reader is introduced to Scotland Yard Inspector Alan Grant, who is hospitalized and recovering from injuries sustained in the line of duty. While convalescing, he becomes intrigued by a picture of a portrait of Richard III, a likeness with which he is unfamiliar. Grant is puzzled that someone with such a sensitive face could have been such a monster as to murder his two nephews in cold blood. So, our intrepid Inspector decides that he will reconsider the evidence upon which such a dastardly assumption has been based. With the help of an American researcher doing the necessary legwork, Grant compiles enough archival historical fact that incrementally helps him formulate a new theory as to who actually may have murdered the  princes in the tower.<br /><br />This analysis and reformulation is done as though it were being argued to a jury. Indeed, so persuasive is Inspector Grant through the application of some insightful deductive reasoning and clever dialogue that the reader comes away thinking that Grant has solved one of the most intriguing historical mysteries of all time. This is certainly an unusual book conceptually but one that succeeds brilliantly. It should appeal to those readers who enjoy having a mystery unraveled, as well as to those who harbor a  love of  English history.  Bravo!or Grant through the application of some insightful deductive reasoning and clever dialogue that the reader comes away thinking that Grant has solved one of the most intriguing historical mysteries of all time. This is certainly an unusual book conceptually but one that succeeds brilliantly. It should appeal to those readers who enjoy having a mystery unraveled, as well as to those who harbor a  love of  English history.  Bravo!	2005-02-25
337398:US	49355567	R29LQJRRAAE4P4	8501056502	951951252	A Catarina Viuva Virgem (Em Portuguese do Brasil)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A YOUNG KATHERINE OF ARAGON IN THE ENGLISH COURT...	In this, the Portuguese text edition of \\"Katherine, the Virgin Widow\\", the first book in the Katherine of Aragon trilogy, the author, Jean Plaidy, also known to her legion of fans as Victoria Holt, writes about young Katherine of Aragon, who as the Infanta of Spain was betrothed to marry the sickly son of the parsimonious King Henry VII, Arthur, the Prince of Wales.<br /><br />This marriage was a politically expedient one, meant to ally Spain and England. When Arthur dies shortly after their marriage, he leaves behind a virgin widow, as their marriage had never been consummated. This book chronicles the travails of the widowed Katherine, who languished in the court of her father-in-law, treated as an unnecessary appendage, only to be turned out of the palace to live as an unwanted poor relation.<br /><br />Living in penurious conditions in England, ill befitting a princess of Spain, she waits for her fortunes to change. When her beloved mother and only hope of respite, Queen Isabella of Castile, dies, Katherine is bereft, knowing that her father, King Ferdinand of Aragon, will do only what is politically expedient and leave her to her own devices. She is ultimately betrothed to Arthur's younger brother, Henry, only to find that as the time for the marriage to take place draws near, King Henry VII is maneuvering to make a more advantageous marriage for his son.<br /><br />Reliance upon her sister, Juana, who is now Queen of Castile, to help Katherine settle her precarious situation is misplaced, for Juana, married to Phillip the Handsome, has mental health issues. After the premature death of her husband, her behavior greatly deteriorates, and she becomes known as Juana the Mad with good reason.<br /><br />The book artfully details the hopefulness of a young Katherine, as she is married to Arthur, as well as the early sufferings of the widowed Katherine at the hands of King Henry VII. The book also offers an intriguing glimpse into the life of Katherine's older sister, Juana the Mad, as well as the Spanish and English intrigues of the day. This is a well written account of the early life of Katherine of Aragon in the English Court, whose fortunes dramatically changed upon the death of King Henry VII, when Henry VIII chose to honor his betrothal to her and make her his wife.r, Juana the Mad, as well as the Spanish and English intrigues of the day. This is a well written account of the early life of Katherine of Aragon in the English Court, whose fortunes dramatically changed upon the death of King Henry VII, when Henry VIII chose to honor his betrothal to her and make her his wife.	2005-02-24
337525:US	49355567	R131UA7Y5L9AJ7	086527343X	502096068	Five Chimneys:  The Story of Auschwitz (English and French Edition)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	AN AUSCHWITZ SURVIVOR REMEMBERS...	This is the story of a woman who spent about seven months in Auschwitz and survived to tell the tale. She wrote this book shortly after her ordeal, while her horrific experience was still fresh in her mind. It was definitely a mind numbing, life changing experience, as it saw the loss of her entire family, her parents, her children, and her husband. It should be noted that none of them, including Olga, were Jews.<br /><br />Olga Lengyel lived an upper-middle class existence in Transylvania, in the capital city of Cluj. Her husband, Dr. Miklos Lengyel, was a Berlin trained medical doctor and the director of a private hospital that he had built shortly before the onset of World War II. Olga had also studied medicine and was qualified to be a surgical assistant. She and her husband had two young sons. They were all surviving the war as best they could, with Germans an occupying force. They even had a German soldier billeted with them for a time.<br /><br />Olga had begun to hear disturbing things about what the Germans were doing in occupied territories, but had discounted it. She felt that Germany, a country that had contributed so much culturally to the world, could not be culpable of some of the atrocities of which she was hearing. She felt the stories that she was hearing were too fantastical to be believable. Then her husband came under the cross-hairs of the Nazis, accused of having his hospital boycott pharmaceuticals made by the German Bayer Company. This was the beginning of the end for the Lengyel family. Shortly thereafter in May of 1944, he was ordered to be deported to Germany.<br /><br />When Olga heard this, she insisted on accompanying her husband, as she thought that he would be put to work in a German hospital. She naively asked the Nazis if she could accompany her husband, and they had no objection. When her parents heard, they insisted on going with them, which meant that Olga's young sons would also be going. Once they got to the train station and saw that they were all to board a cattle car with ninety-six other people, they knew that their nightmare was just beginning. Their destination was Birkenau-Auschwitz.<br /><br />Olga recounts the horrors that awaited her family there. Hers is a testament to the brutality of the Nazi regime towards Jews and non-Jews alike. In it Olga chronicles her first hand observations of Dr, Joseph Mengele and his passion for twins and dwarfs, as well as his mad scientist medical experiments. She recalls her run ins with the \\"blonde angel\\", the exceptionally beautiful and sadistic Nazi, Irma Griese. She talks about the selections that were made, which determined who lived and who died. She makes it clear that the Jews were targeted, first and foremost, for extermination. She recounts the utter depravity with which the inmates of the camp were treated, creating a veritable hell on earth.<br /><br />Ms. Lengyel gives a no-holds-barred account of life at one of the most notorious concentration camps run by the Nazis. It should be noted that the five chimneys in the title of her book refers to the chimneys of the crematoriums, which towards the end of the war appeared to be burning night and day. While her chronicle might have benefited from some better or more careful editing, this is a minor criticism, as hers is a powerful voice in the arena of holocaust literature. It is a book that should be read by those who are interested in learning more about these concentration camps and about man's inhumanity to man.saw that they were all to board a cattle car with ninety-six other people, they knew that their nightmare was just beginning. Their destination was Birkenau-Auschwitz.<br /><br />Olga recounts the horrors that awaited her family there. Hers is a testament to the brutality of the Nazi regime towards Jews and non-Jews alike. In it Olga chronicles her first hand observations of Dr, Joseph Mengele and his passion for twins and dwarfs, as well as his mad scientist medical experiments. She recalls her run ins with the \\"blonde angel\\", the exceptionally beautiful and sadistic Nazi, Irma Griese. She talks about the selections that were made, which determined who lived and who died. She makes it clear that the Jews were targeted, first and foremost, for extermination. She recounts the utter depravity with which the inmates of the camp were treated, creating a veritable hell on earth.<br /><br />Ms. Lengyel gives a no-holds-barred account of life at one of the most notorious concentration camps run by the Nazis. It should be noted that the five chimneys in the title of her book refers to the chimneys of the crematoriums, which towards the end of the war appeared to be burning night and day. While her chronicle might have benefited from some better or more careful editing, this is a minor criticism, as hers is a powerful voice in the arena of holocaust literature. It is a book that should be read by those who are interested in learning more about these concentration camps and about man's inhumanity to man.	2005-02-24
337837:US	49355567	R23UMCYLRDB0U0	060981026X	48167035	The Sixth Wife: The Wives of Henry VIII	Books	4	31	33	N	N	TOO CLOSE FOR COMFORT...	Jean Plaidy, also known as Victoria Holt to her legion of devoted fans, was a gifted and prolific writer of historical fiction. A masterful storyteller, Ms. Plaidy seamlessly interweaves historical facts into a rich tapestry of fiction that is often spellbinding. Here, she writes of Katherine Parr, a comely noblewoman, twice widowed, who would reluctantly rise from obscurity to become the sixth and, thankfully, last wife of that colorful Tudor despot, King Henry VIII of England.<br /><br />At the time that Katherine Parr caught the King's eye, she was in love with the rakishly handsome and ambitious Thomas Seymour, brother to Jane Seymour, the third wife of King Henry VIII. Jane died shortly after producing the coveted living son, who would someday reign as King Edward VI. Thomas Seymour held a coveted place at court by virtue of his ties to the King. Once the King's eyes landed upon the hapless Katherine Parr, however, even Thomas Seymour had no choice but to withdraw his suit for her hand.<br /><br />The King's eye and attentions, having settled upon Katherine Parr so soon after he had sent his fifth wife to the block to have her head severed from her neck, made Katherine uneasy. After all, Henry VIII's wives had met with unenviable fates. His first wife of many years, Katherine of Aragon, had been cast aside and driven to an early death. His second wife, Anne Boleyn, for whom he had discarded Katherine of Aragon, had been accused of having had numerous adulterous relationships while married to the King. For this she was found guilty of treason and was unceremoniously beheaded, whereupon he married plain Jane Seymour, who managed to give him a son before dying of complications after childbirth.<br /><br />The fourth wife of Henry VIII was Anne of Cleves, whom the King found physically repugnant and not to his liking. She prudently and wisely agreed to a divorce rather than wait to have her head severed from the rest of her body. The fifth wife was Catherine Howard, a beautiful teenager who showed little judgment both before and after her marriage to Henry. Accused of adulterous behavior, she, too, was found guilty of treason, as had been Anne Boleyn, and beheaded. It was on the heels of this last execution that Henry's eyes fell upon the comely widow, Katherine Parr.<br /><br />Katherine Parr, an intelligent, attractive woman, was known as Lady Latimer, when she caught the King's eye. It was to be an encounter from which there would be no escape. In love with Thomas Seymour, she married the King most reluctantly and consigned herself to a stressful number of years, living, at all times, under the sword of Damocles, mindful of the fate of her predecessors and hoping not to lose her head.<br /><br />As Queen Katherine, she would become the target of those who wished England to return to traditional Catholicism, as she was interested in what was referred to as the new learning. It would be these new ideas that would eventually give rise to Protestantism in England and the Reformation. Her enemies lost no time in trying to have her share the same fate that had befallen some of Henry's other wives, as they plotted and schemed against her.<br /><br />Queen Katherine's life would become a grim game of cat and mouse, as she tried to stay one step ahead of those who would wish her harm. Even Henry's affections would prove to be fickle, changing like the wind from day to day, causing her to fear that every day may be her last. Her daily existence was subject to the capricious and arbitrary moods of Henry VIII, a situation not conducive to peace and happiness.<br /><br />This book is a treasure trove of historical facts that are melded into an enjoyable work of fiction, Even the most discerning reader should enjoy this richly drawn portrait of the court of King Henry VIII and his sixth and, mercifully, last wife. Set amidst the political and religious turmoil of sixteenth century England, peppered with names of those who would have lasting historical impact, it is an entertaining, as well as informative, work of historical fiction.ting historical impact, it is an entertaining, as well as informative, work of historical fiction.	2005-02-24
338196:US	49355567	RVH50PJJRILPH	0739448641	818080128	The Virgin's Lover (Boleyn)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	INTRIGUING  ROMANTIC HISTORICAL FICTION...	This is romantic historical fiction at its finest, replete with an abundance of period detail. The focus of the book is the romantic triangle involving the newly crowned tempestuous Queen, Elizabeth I, her lover and Master of Horse, Sir Robert Dudley, and his long suffering wife, Amy, whose dreams of a simple life with her husband are shattered with Elizabeth's rise to the throne upon the death of her half-sister, Queen Mary.<br /><br />There is also a cat and mouse game involving Elizabeth, her Secretary of State, the canny and shrewd William Cecil, and Robert Dudley, which develops as it becomes clear that Dudley has his heart on becoming King and ruling alongside Elizabeth as an equal, something that can only be accomplished through marriage to Elizabeth.<br /><br />Unfortunately for Sir Robert Dudley, his wife, Amy, a secret Catholic, has no intention of divorcing him. Moreover, Elizabeth has no intention of letting Dudley rule as King rather than just being King consort, were they to someday wed. Yet, she is in a quandary, as she finds herself unable to resist Dudley's charms and can refuse him nothing. Elizabeth turns to William Cecil for help in saving her from herself. William Cecil knows all too well that marriage to a Dudley would be disastrous for England, as Dudley, being the Queen's favorite, is one of the most unpopular men at court with the other courtiers. Moreover, the Dudley family, though a powerful and ancient lineage, has a treasonous history.<br /><br />What Cecil devises is diabolical but plausible. This twist in the tale is certainly an ingenious way of explaining a mysterious death, a death that has never been satisfactorily explained by historians. It is a death that certainly served to cast a pall upon Dudley's ambitions and ensured that he and Elizabeth would never wed. It also ensured that the canny William Cecil would be the most powerful person in England, excepting Elizabeth.<br /><br />This is a wonderful tale of the Tudor Court and the beginning of the Elizabethan era. There are those readers, however, who may find it difficult to reconcile the histrionic and besotted, love-struck  Elizabeth of this work of fiction with the more familiar image of Elizabeth as the self-reliant and strong willed Queen Regnant. Still, those who enjoyed the author's book, \\"The Other Boleyn Girl\\", will surely enjoy this one. Set against a backdrop of political intrigues, it is a well-written, well-researched work of romantic historical fiction that will keep the reader turning the pages.the beginning of the Elizabethan era. There are those readers, however, who may find it difficult to reconcile the histrionic and besotted, love-struck  Elizabeth of this work of fiction with the more familiar image of Elizabeth as the self-reliant and strong willed Queen Regnant. Still, those who enjoyed the author's book, \\"The Other Boleyn Girl\\", will surely enjoy this one. Set against a backdrop of political intrigues, it is a well-written, well-researched work of romantic historical fiction that will keep the reader turning the pages.	2005-02-24
338835:US	49355567	RRDX0W2SMAO0I	1404319360	584095688	My Antonia	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A TIMELESS CLASSIC...	I first read this book when I was in junior high school. I admit that, at the time, I did not appreciate the strengths of the book and the quality of its writing. I am quite glad that I decided to give it another chance, as I now understand why it is considered to be a classic in literature. It is simply a beautifully written book, covering many of the themes that one stumbles across in life and coalescing them into a work of extraordinary breadth.<br /><br />The book is the story of two young people, Jim Burden and Antonia Shimerda. They meet for the first time when Jim is ten years old and Antonia is fourteen. Recently orphaned, Jim has moved to the Great Prairie to live with his grandparents in Nebraska. Antonia, on the other hand, has been wrenched from her homeland in Bohemia, emigrating with her parents to the United States and finding herself in Nebraska. Jim and Antonia's chance encounter on a train sets the stage for the forging of a friendship and unconditional love that time will not diminish.<br /><br />The book relates the harshness of immigrant life through the eyes of Jim, who narrates the events contained in the book. There is a relentless stoicism about the book, which is written in spare, clear prose. With intense imagery and descriptive exactitude, late nineteenth century Nebraska comes to life. It also relates the paths that each of the characters choose to follow, as well as the vicissitudes of life that mold and shape them in  ways that no one would have imagined.<br /><br />The focus of the book, which is also a coming of age tale, seems to be on the female characters and their strengths. Consequently, the book has a faintly feminist undercurrent to it, as all the women in it seem to be survivors, despite the hardships that they encounter. This is, without a doubt, a life affirming book, wrought with great feeling and a decided sense of time and place. Yet, despite its poignancy, the book is surprisingly unsentimental and straightforward. It is a testament to the author's literary talent that this book has emerged as a timeless classic. Bravo!s a testament to the author's literary talent that this book has emerged as a timeless classic. Bravo!	2005-02-23
339347:US	49355567	R3TXPP8KGPCX74	9875660280	865249583	Presa (Spanish language edition)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	THEY'RE HERE...	This is the Spanish text edition of \\"Prey\\", another fast-paced, bio-tech thriller by this author. Expertly weaving his narrative, the author grips the reader with his tale of nanotechnology gone wrong. While the book is wholly plot driven, with little attention paid to any character development, this lack does not unduly detract from the enjoyment of the book, as the plot is so gripping.<br /><br />The plot revolves around stay at home dad, Jack Forman, who was a  whistle-blower about some high-tech espionage going on in the company  for which he worked. Unfortunately, he revealed what he had discovered it to the wrong person  and, consequently, was fired for his pains. While at home, he notices that his wife, who is a mover and a shaker for a bio-tech firm, has been acting a little odd and suspects her of an illicit affair.<br /><br />When her company wants to hire him to check out some programming problems at  their Nevada facility, Jack jumps at the opportunity. He then discovers that the firm has engaged in an experiment that has gone out of control. A swarm of nanoparticles, designed as micro-robots and programmed to act as one mind, has escaped from the environs of the firm's desert laboratory. Programmed to be predatory, the swarm is deadly and evolving into something even more sinister with every passing moment.<br /><br />Moreover, he notices that it isn't only his wife that is acting a little odd. Others at the facility with the swarm problem are also acting a little strange. All is definitely not what it seems. The only question is whether Jack, with the help of the scientists at the facility, can take control of the swarm before the swarm overwhelms and controls them.<br /><br />This book keeps the reader riveted, despite the fairly predictable, formulaic plot. It is a highly enjoyable book, as are so many other of the author's books. It also presents some serious ethical and moral issues for consideration by the reader, and the author himself gives a fairly detailed, cautionary foreword on the dangers of nanotechnology.irly detailed, cautionary foreword on the dangers of nanotechnology.	2005-02-23
339460:US	49355567	R279ZLS2CTLMFA	0385487207	268365503	O Pioneers! And Other Tales of the Prairie (New York Public Library Collector's Editions)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	THE LAND TO WHICH WE BELONG...	In this, the author's second published work, the author writes about that which she knew best, early pioneer life in Nebraska, the place to which she and her family moved in 1883 when she was a mere slip of a girl. She eventually attended the University of Nebraska, graduating in 1895, at a time when most girls did no such thing.<br /><br />In this work, the author was on very sure footing. Her clear, straightforward prose lends itself capably to the story of early pioneers who went to Nebraska and set down roots, weathering the exigencies that often plagued a newcomer to a particular region. It is a surprisingly unsentimental look at pioneer life.<br /><br />This thematically complex, but simply written story focuses primarily on Alexandra Bergson,  the intelligent, independent, resourceful, and strong-willed daughter of pioneer John Bergson.  Upon his death he did what was then the nearly unthinkable. He left his land in the hands of his oldest child, his daughter, Alexandra, rather than in those of his sons, recognizing in his daughter those qualities that would ensure that his land would prosper under her stewardship.<br /><br />This then is the story of not only Alexandra but of that land and those whose sustenance depended upon its fruitfulness. The reader follows the Bergson clan as they live their lives and interact with their neighbors. Under Alexandra's skillful management, the Bergson farm prospers. As the farm prospers, so does its environs, as the area becomes a bustling center of activity with more and more settlers developing the land around that of the Bergsons.<br /><br />Thematically, the book explores the vicissitudes of life, as well as its life-affirming moments. As in all lives, the characters in this book experience moments of high drama and great tragedy, as well as memorable moments of love and hate. All this is grounded within the context of pioneer life, with all its hardships and privations, as well as its occasional abundance. The author skillfully re-creates a melting pot of the many nationalities that cultivated the land known as Nebraska.<br /><br />This is a book that those who like reading about pioneer life will certainly enjoy, as will those who simply like a well-written book with a tale to tell.  This classic novel was also adapted for a Hallmark Hall of Fame film, starring Jessica Lange in the role of Alexandra Bergson.skillfully re-creates a melting pot of the many nationalities that cultivated the land known as Nebraska.<br /><br />This is a book that those who like reading about pioneer life will certainly enjoy, as will those who simply like a well-written book with a tale to tell.  This classic novel was also adapted for a Hallmark Hall of Fame film, starring Jessica Lange in the role of Alexandra Bergson.	2005-02-23
339521:US	49355567	R316IPN0RSBL5A	0812415736	412606618	The Good Earth	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A PROFOUND STORY SIMPLY TOLD...	This 1932 Pulitzer Prize winning novel is still a standout today. Deceptive in its simplicity, it is a story built around a flawed human being and a teetering socio-economic system, as well as one that is layered with profound themes. The cadence of the author's writing is also of note, as it rhythmically lends itself to the telling of the story, giving it a very distinct voice. No doubt the author's writing style was influenced by her own immersion in Chinese culture, as she grew up and lived in China, the daughter of missionaries.<br /><br />This is the story of the cyclical nature of life, of the passions and desires that motivate a human being, of good and evil, and of the desire to survive and thrive against great odds. It begins with the story of an illiterate, poor, peasant farmer, Wang Lung, who ventures from the rural countryside and goes to town to the great house of Hwang to obtain a bride from those among the rank of slave. There, he is given the slave O-lan as his bride.<br /><br />Selfless, hardworking, and a bearer of sons, the plain-faced O-lan supports Wang Lung's veneration of the land and his desire to acquire more land. She stays with him through thick and thin, through famine and very lean times, working alongside him on the land, making great sacrifices, and raising his children. As a family, they weather the tumultuousness of pre-revolutionary China in the 1920s, only to find themselves the recipient of riches beyond their dreams. At the first opportunity, they buy land from the great house of Hwang, whose expenses appear to be exceeding their income.<br /><br />With the passing of time, Wang Lung buys more and more land from the house of Hwang, until he owns it all, as his veneration of the land is always paramount. With O-lan at this side, his family continues to prosper. His life becomes more complicated, however, the richer he gets. Wang Lung then commits a life-changing act that pierces O-lan's heart in the most profoundly heartbreaking way.<br /><br />As the years pass, his sons become educated and literate, and the family continues to prosper. With the great house of Hwang on the skids, an opportunity to buy their house, the very same house from where he had fetched O-lan many years ago, becomes available. Pressed upon to buy that house by his sons, who do not share Wang Lung's veneration for the land and rural life, he buys the house. The country mice now have become city mice.<br /><br />This is a potent story, brimming with irony, yet simply told against a framework of mounting social change. It is a story that stands as a parable in many ways and is one that certainly should be read. It illustrates the timeless dichotomy between the young and the old, the old and the new, and the rich and the poor. It is no wonder that this beautifully written book won a Pulitzer Prize and is considered a classic masterpiece. Bravo!ay.<br /><br />As the years pass, his sons become educated and literate, and the family continues to prosper. With the great house of Hwang on the skids, an opportunity to buy their house, the very same house from where he had fetched O-lan many years ago, becomes available. Pressed upon to buy that house by his sons, who do not share Wang Lung's veneration for the land and rural life, he buys the house. The country mice now have become city mice.<br /><br />This is a potent story, brimming with irony, yet simply told against a framework of mounting social change. It is a story that stands as a parable in many ways and is one that certainly should be read. It illustrates the timeless dichotomy between the young and the old, the old and the new, and the rich and the poor. It is no wonder that this beautifully written book won a Pulitzer Prize and is considered a classic masterpiece. Bravo!	2005-02-23
341712:US	49355567	R19LFANQD71OW7	0897333764	502096068	Five Chimneys: A Woman Survivor's True Story of Auschwitz	Books	4	297	309	N	N	MAN'S INHUMANITY TO MAN...	This is the story of a woman who spent about seven months in Auschwitz and survived to tell the tale. She wrote this book shortly after her ordeal, while her horrific experience was still fresh in her mind. It was definitely a mind numbing, life  changing experience, as it saw the loss of her entire family, her parents, her children, and her husband. It should be noted that none of them, including Olga,  were Jews.<br /><br />Olga Lengyel lived an upper-middle class existence in Transylvania, in the capital city of Cluj. Her husband, Dr. Miklos Lengyel, was a Berlin trained medical doctor and the director of a private hospital that he had built shortly before the onset of World War II.  Olga had also studied medicine and was qualified to be a surgical assistant. She and her husband had two young sons. They were all surviving the war as best they could, with Germans an occupying force. They even had a German soldier billeted with them for a time.<br /><br />Olga had begun to hear disturbing things about what the Germans were doing in occupied territories, but had discounted it. She felt that Germany,  a country that had contributed so much culturally to the world, could not be culpable of some of the atrocities of which she was hearing.  She felt the stories that she was hearing were too fantastical to be believable. Then her husband came under the cross-hairs of the Nazis, accused of having his hospital boycott  pharmaceuticals made by the German Bayer Company. This was the beginning of the end for the Lengyel family. Shortly thereafter in May of 1944, he was ordered to be deported to Germany.<br /><br />When Olga heard this, she insisted on accompanying her husband, as she thought that he would be put to work in a German hospital. She naively asked the Nazis if she could accompany her husband, and  they had no objection. When her parents heard, they insisted on going with them, which meant that Olga's young sons would also be going. Once they got to the train station and saw that they were all to board a cattle car with ninety-six other people, they knew that their nightmare was just beginning. Their destination was Birkenau-Auschwitz.<br /><br />Olga recounts the horrors that awaited her family there. Hers is a testament to the brutality of the Nazi regime towards Jews and non-Jews alike. In it Olga chronicles her first hand observations of Dr, Joseph Mengele and his passion for twins and dwarfs, as well as his mad scientist medical experiments. She recalls her run ins with the \\"blonde angel\\", the exceptionally beautiful and sadistic Nazi, Irma Griese. She talks about the selections that were made, which determined  who lived and who died.  She makes it clear that the Jews were targeted, first and foremost, for extermination. She recounts the utter depravity with which the inmates of the camp were treated, creating a veritable hell on earth.<br /><br />Ms. Lengyel gives a no-holds-barred account of life at one of the most notorious concentration camps run by the Nazis. It should be noted that the five chimneys in the title of her book refers to the chimneys of the crematoriums, which towards the end of the war appeared to be burning night and day. While her chronicle might have benefited from some better or more careful editing, this is a minor criticism, as hers is a powerful voice in the arena of holocaust literature. It is a book that should be read by those who are interested in learning more about these concentration camps and about man's inhumanity to man.on and saw that they were all to board a cattle car with ninety-six other people, they knew that their nightmare was just beginning. Their destination was Birkenau-Auschwitz.<br /><br />Olga recounts the horrors that awaited her family there. Hers is a testament to the brutality of the Nazi regime towards Jews and non-Jews alike. In it Olga chronicles her first hand observations of Dr, Joseph Mengele and his passion for twins and dwarfs, as well as his mad scientist medical experiments. She recalls her run ins with the \\"blonde angel\\", the exceptionally beautiful and sadistic Nazi, Irma Griese. She talks about the selections that were made, which determined  who lived and who died.  She makes it clear that the Jews were targeted, first and foremost, for extermination. She recounts the utter depravity with which the inmates of the camp were treated, creating a veritable hell on earth.<br /><br />Ms. Lengyel gives a no-holds-barred account of life at one of the most notorious concentration camps run by the Nazis. It should be noted that the five chimneys in the title of her book refers to the chimneys of the crematoriums, which towards the end of the war appeared to be burning night and day. While her chronicle might have benefited from some better or more careful editing, this is a minor criticism, as hers is a powerful voice in the arena of holocaust literature. It is a book that should be read by those who are interested in learning more about these concentration camps and about man's inhumanity to man.	2005-02-21
341801:US	49355567	R1QL3AVPSVXHQY	B0006AWI86	16111957	Ordeal by Hunger: The Story of the Donner Party	Books	4	1	2	N	N	SURVIVAL AND CANNABALISM IN THE SIERRA MOUNTAINS...	This book presents an account of the Donner Party, a wagon train of about eighty-seven people who in July 1846 started off for California via a new, untried route through the Sierras. Unfortunately, this particular wagon train of pioneers would go down in history due to the horror and tragedy that it was to meet along its way. Stranded in the Sierras amidst its harshest winter in years, with unparalleled snowfall and frigid temperatures, only little more than half, mostly women and children, were to survive their unbelievable deprivation and suffering.<br /><br />This wagon train was a loose confederation of strangers who originally were part of another wagon train, but who collectively branched off by consensus to try a new, though untried and unproven, overland route through the Sierras that was alleged to be shorter. Their decision to take this new route was one that would haunt them for the rest of their journey, as it was not what it was purported to be. The inexperience of these travelers, the poor decisions that were sometimes made, and their seeming inability to truly unify as one entity contributed to their ultimate debacle. They were, after all, representative of humanity at large. Some of them were good, brave, and unselfish. Some were people with whom one would not wish to shake hands.<br /><br />Beleaguered by thirst as they trekked across a desert, marauded by Indians along the way, plagued by the loss of necessary oxen and cattle, beset by accidents and personal squabbles that would sometimes turn deadly, they would finally reach the Sierras and begin their perilous crossing, only to find themselves snowbound at the summit while within sight of the pass that they needed to cross to be home free. Trapped by the weather in early November, they would set up a make-shift camp, never thinking about just how long their encampment would last. With minimal food supplies at their disposal, these intrepid, westward-ho emigrants would find themselves trapped for months, facing incredible hardships that would tax them beyond human endurance. Some would resort to cannibalism in order to survive.<br /><br />This is a riveting story about survival of the fittest, about personal sacrifice, and human foibles. It is a story not only of those ill-fated pioneers but of those who would attempt to rescue them, often at great personal cost. It is a story that reflects the human spirit, both good and bad, in time of crisis. It is a story of often selfless heroism. It is also a story of greed and craven opportunism. While some of the book is politically incorrect, it is reflective of the times in which these pioneers lived, as well as that of when this book was first written.<br /><br />It is, however, remiss that the maps included in this book do little to illustrate the deadly journey undertaken by these pioneers. Still, the lack of comprehensive maps does not unduly detract from the powerful impact that this story has on the reader. Moreover, although the book was published in 1936, the author, a trained historian, added a supplement in 1960, which is included in this edition of his book. This supplement serves to correct errors, as well as incorporate additional relevant material not available at the time of original publication.<br /><br />Those who enjoy tales of survival will, undoubtedly, find this gripping tale well worth reading.months, facing incredible hardships that would tax them beyond human endurance. Some would resort to cannibalism in order to survive.<br /><br />This is a riveting story about survival of the fittest, about personal sacrifice, and human foibles. It is a story not only of those ill-fated pioneers but of those who would attempt to rescue them, often at great personal cost. It is a story that reflects the human spirit, both good and bad, in time of crisis. It is a story of often selfless heroism. It is also a story of greed and craven opportunism. While some of the book is politically incorrect, it is reflective of the times in which these pioneers lived, as well as that of when this book was first written.<br /><br />It is, however, remiss that the maps included in this book do little to illustrate the deadly journey undertaken by these pioneers. Still, the lack of comprehensive maps does not unduly detract from the powerful impact that this story has on the reader. Moreover, although the book was published in 1936, the author, a trained historian, added a supplement in 1960, which is included in this edition of his book. This supplement serves to correct errors, as well as incorporate additional relevant material not available at the time of original publication.<br /><br />Those who enjoy tales of survival will, undoubtedly, find this gripping tale well worth reading.	2005-02-21
343191:US	49355567	RGK7QXNQIG3JX	3596147794	530666972	Heute nacht oder nie.	Books	5	0	0	N	N	MYSTERY...ROMANCE...SUSPENSE...	The author is simply one of the best writers of this genre. She is better than Mary Higgins Clark who is the maven for this type of book. In this German text edition of her romantic suspense novel, \\"Tonight You're Mine\\", Ms. Thompson keeps the reader guessing until the very end, with so many twists and turns in the plot. It is an absorbing and compelling page turner.<br /><br />Fifteen years ago, a vivacious, nineteen year old college student, Nicole Sloan, was having a scintillating love affair with handsome, sophisticated, world reknowned pianist, Paul Dominic. Little did she realize that her world would crumble, when she was tossed into a maelstrom of violence that would change her life, as well as Paul's, forever.<br /><br />Now thirty four years old, Niclole is mother to a precocious eight year girl and married to a philandering college professor, Roger Chandler, who is leaving her for a twenty year old college student. Adding to her personal pain is the fact that her beloved father inexplicably commits suicide. As her personal life begins to fall apart around her, she is also beset by a series of murders which appear to be happening to people whom she knows. Somehow, these events are tied into the violent and tragic events of her past.<br /><br />Moreover, Paul Dominic, the man whom she loved and believed to have died in a car crash shortly after her life was ripped apart by violence fifteen years earlier, may not be dead after all. Or is he? Confused by the mayhem which seems to be happening around her, and baffled by her sighting of a man who reminds her of Paul and who appears to be watching over her, Nicole sets about trying to unravel a seeming tapestry of intrigue. It is only in understanding her past, however, that her present will make itself clear.	2005-02-20
343266:US	49355567	R15920X6WOWHJ2	2020385821	79732431	Sous la peau	Books	5	0	0	N	N	CREEPY...MACABRE...SINISTER...STUNNING...	This is the French text edition of a wonderfully inventive novel, \\"Under the Skin\\", which is strangely compelling. It cuts across many genres, as it certainly qualifies as literary fiction, horror, satire, suspense, science fiction, and fantasy. It is extraordinarily riveting in its telling, propelled by a narrative that is all at once creepy, faintly sinister and macabre, as well as, at times, poignant. Beautifully written in clear, spare prose, this stunning novel grips the reader until the last page is turned.<br /><br />The main protagonist, Isserley, cruises the highways of the Scottish countryside in her specially equipped compact car looking for beefcake. On the prowl for muscular, well-built, healthy men who are hitchhiking, rolling stones with little or no ties to family, friends, and community, she picks them up and gets their life's story before she makes a momentous decision that will forever alter their lives.<br /><br />These unsuspecting men take note of Isserley for a number of reasons. After all, she is a tiny snippet of a being, strangely erotic, with very large, beautiful and luminous eyes, hidden behind coke bottle thick glasses. She has a small heart-shaped, puffy-cheeked, virtually chinless face, dotted with a tiny nose and lush lips. Her arms are long and thin with knobby elbows and wrists from which large scarred hands flow. Of course, her large breasts are extraordinary and ripe in her always low cut top. It is those perfect protuberances that helps her to ensnare her prey.<br /><br />Who Isserley is and what Isserley does with her prey is at the heart of this book, which is one that should not be missed by those who enjoy unusual, slightly twisted novels. Though ultimately allegorical, it is a gripping, perfectly wrought tale that conceptually defies categorization, so original and imaginative are its tantalizing plot and characters. As for Isserley, the reader will weep for her, so poignant a portrait does the author paint with his elegant prose. This is, indeed, one of my favorite books, and one that should not be missed by those who love beautifully written fiction. Bravo!prose. This is, indeed, one of my favorite books, and one that should not be missed by those who love beautifully written fiction. Bravo!	2005-02-20
343334:US	49355567	R11212E4AY6ZVH	2912517257	618659945	Le recital des anges	Books	4	0	0	N	N	INTRIGUING WORK OF HISTORICAL FICTION...	This book covers the period in the lives of two families that stretches from January 1901, the end of the Victorian era, to May 1910, the end of the Edwardian one. The lives of these two families, the Colemans and the Waterhouses, converge and become inextricably woven together when they inadvertently meet at a cemetery while paying their respects to deceased loved ones. Unbeknownst to them, their lives are moving inexorably towards a tragic denouement, one that is to have ramifications for both families.<br /><br />Two of the daughters of these respective families, Lavinia Waterhouse and Maude Coleman, find that they have formed the beginning of a friendship during the brief interlude at the cemetery. The two girls also befriend Simon Field, the son of one of the gravediggers at the cemetery. The friendship of the two girls is cemented when they later discover that they are to be neighbors, as through happenstance the Waterhouse family moves onto a property adjacent to that of the Colemans. Despite differences in social class and personal taste, as the Waterhouses are definitely sentimentally bourgeois and the Colemans have pretensions to more refinement, the families are brought together, however unwillingly, through the friendship between Lavinia and Maude.<br /><br />The mothers of these two girls are unable to form a true friendship, as stolid Gertrude Waterhouse and pretty Kitty Coleman are unable to find much common ground. Gertrude is bound in tradition, while Kitty, dissatisfied with her marriage and her life, is looking is looking to escape tradition and expand the role allotted in society to women. Never the twain shall meet, as these women will never see eye-to-eye, despite the friendship between Lavinia and Maude.<br /><br />This is a well-plotted novel with each character adding his or her perspective to the events that unfold, many of which are of a secretive nature. Even the husbands, Albert Waterhouse and Richard Coleman, have something to say that contributes to the development of the story, as does Richard Coleman's mother, Edith, as do the Coleman's maid, Jenny Whitby, and their cook, Dorothy Baker. Lavinia's younger sister, Ivy May, who plays a small but pivotal role, also has her say, as does Kitty's admirer, John Jackson. There are also a number of twists and turns in the tale.<br /><br />The story is told in the clean, spare prose that fans of the author have come to expect. It is told through first person narratives, and it is almost as if the narratives were taken from the personal diary or journal of each character. Therein lies the rub, as the author is unable to make the voice of each character truly distinguishable from that of the others. The book suffers somewhat from the failure of the author to develop a truly unique voice for each one. This is, however, the only failing of this otherwise absorbing and intriguing story that is suffused with period detail. This is the French text edition of \\"Falling Angels\\", an otherwise excellent book that fans of the author will enjoy, as will those who love historical fiction.contributes to the development of the story, as does Richard Coleman's mother, Edith, as do the Coleman's maid, Jenny Whitby, and their cook, Dorothy Baker. Lavinia's younger sister, Ivy May, who plays a small but pivotal role, also has her say, as does Kitty's admirer, John Jackson. There are also a number of twists and turns in the tale.<br /><br />The story is told in the clean, spare prose that fans of the author have come to expect. It is told through first person narratives, and it is almost as if the narratives were taken from the personal diary or journal of each character. Therein lies the rub, as the author is unable to make the voice of each character truly distinguishable from that of the others. The book suffers somewhat from the failure of the author to develop a truly unique voice for each one. This is, however, the only failing of this otherwise absorbing and intriguing story that is suffused with period detail. This is the French text edition of \\"Falling Angels\\", an otherwise excellent book that fans of the author will enjoy, as will those who love historical fiction.	2005-02-20
343390:US	49355567	R2MT72SQLWWXDY	2268028062	419023599	Sage-femme	Books	5	5	5	N	N	COMPELLING...POWERFUL...RIVETING...A NOVEL TO REMEMBER...	This is the French text edition of the book, \\"Midwives\\". It is a beautifully crafted novel set in 1981, when a midwife, leading an otherwise uncomplicated and simple life with her husband and daughter in rural Vermont, is thrust into a legal, moral, political, and ethical nightmare. It evolves around a split second decision made in a life and death situation and the aftermath of that decision.<br /><br />An experienced and respected midwife, Sibyl Danforth, attends a woman during a home birth. When she realizes that dangerous complications have set in, she tries in vain to call for help, as a severe ice storm has knocked out the phone lines. An attempt to drive the expectant mother to a hospital only results in the car being wedged into an icy snow bank, as travel conditions are impossible.<br /><br />Trapped in this isolated home with a physically fragile, expectant mother in the throes of a labor that will not bear fruit, Sybil struggles to do the best that she can. Unfortunately, her best is just not good enough, given the complications that had set in, and the expectant mother appears to succumb to the ravages of a laborious childbirth.<br /><br />Under the belief that the expectant mother had died, Sibyl performs an emergency caesarean section in an effort to save the unborn child. She successfully does so, presenting the stricken husband with an infant son. Yet, the next day, her assistant, Anne, who had been present throughout the ordeal, denounces Sibyl to the authorities, claiming that the expectant mother had, in fact, been alive, when Sibyl had commenced the caesarean. Consequently, Sibyl is charged with manslaughter, and the political winds blown by the traditional medical establishment, as well as that of the legal system, threaten to tear asunder all that she holds dear.<br /><br />The story of this event, its aftermath, and the impact it had on many lives, is told through the eyes of Sibyl's daughter who had been a young teenager at the time of the incident, and through the pages of Sibyl's journal. The book takes the reader through a number of moral dilemmas for Sibyl, as well as for her daughter who is forced to come of age during this time of trial and tribulation for her family. Absorbing and often surprising, this sensitively wrought novel is a well-nuanced literary gem from a gifted writer.cident, and through the pages of Sibyl's journal. The book takes the reader through a number of moral dilemmas for Sibyl, as well as for her daughter who is forced to come of age during this time of trial and tribulation for her family. Absorbing and often surprising, this sensitively wrought novel is a well-nuanced literary gem from a gifted writer.	2005-02-20
344019:US	49355567	R1NXJ0JVFWSMLL	2266097814	822797546	Lune froide	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A SCARY, CREEPY READ...KEEP THE LIGHTS ON!...	This is the French text edition of \\"Winter Moon\\", a highly entertaining, quick read that is sure to provide some chills. Here, a heroic, Los Angeles Police Department cop, Jack McGarvey, is shot and almost killed, in a wild shoot out which sees several civilians killed, as well as his partner, the second partner Jack has lost inside of a year. After a four month convalescence, Jack, his wife, Heather, and their son, Toby, receive an unexpected gift, seemingly from the Gods. Eduardo Hernandez, the father of Thomas, his former partner of eleven years, died and left Jack a six hundred acre ranch in Montana, as well as a substantial sum of cash. Having decided that enough is enough, Jack and Heather agree to relocate to Montana.<br /><br />Unbeknownst to Jack, before seventy year old Eduardo Hernandez died, he had been experiencing some mighty strange goings on at the ranch. One night, a bizarre, electronic oscillation pulsed through the bone deep quiet of the Montana air, coming in disturbing waves, accompanied by the sense of an alien presence. Returning a month later in an even more disquieting fashion, it was louder, with more rhythmic pounding, causing the ranch house to vibrate. This undulation of sound lured Eduardo out of his home, calling out to him, the sense of an alien presence overwhelming. Again, it disappeared, as quickly as it began. When the same thing occurred a month later, a two dimensional doorway into infinite blackness appeared, a portal into the unknown. Soon after this portal appeared, the surrounding wildlife began to act strangely. Just what was going on?<br /><br />Read this book and find out. Just remember...leave the lights on!	2005-02-19
344101:US	49355567	R33Q2SDIE8LFE6	8478885080	350297738	Atrapada en el Tiempo	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A LOVE THAT TRANSCENDS TIME CONTINUES TO RIVET THE READER...	This the Spanish text edition of \\"Dragonfly in Amber\\",  the second in a series of time travel, adventure/romance books by the author. There are five such novels published to date in what is to be a series of six books. These novels have engaged readers everywhere, because of the author's masterful storytelling, as well as for the superlative use of historical detail which is woven into the tapestry in this most intriguing of stories.<br /><br />While the core of the story is about a love that transcends time, it would be a disservice to label it a romance, as it is much more than that. It is a wonderful adventure story interspersed with actual historical events and authentic period detail. It is this attention to such matters by the skillful pen of the author that renders these books three dimensional and so enjoyable. They are positively addictive!<br /><br />The love of the ages that binds these books is the love that twentieth century Claire Randall has for the eighteenth century Scottish highland warrior, James Fraser. Those of you who read the first book in the series, \\"Outlander\\", know that in 1945, Claire, an Englishwoman and combat nurse during World War II, is reunited with her husband, Frank, after the war. While on a second honeymoon in Scotland, she visits a strange, flat-topped hill in the highlands of Scotland, where a forbidding stone circle draws her. Touching one of the stones, she is hurled through a vortex in time and finds herself in eighteenth century Scotland, where she meets a brave and brawny, red headed Scot, James Fraser, with whom she falls completely in love, body and soul. Finding herself thrust into the midst of clan warfare and intrigue, she and her beloved \\"Jamie\\" have enough adventures to last a lifetime, which makes for a riveting story.<br /><br />This book is a continuation of that story. It is told from the perspective of the twentieth century where Claire, who is now a doctor, has lived for the past twenty years. Upon the death of her twentieth century husband, Frank, Claire returns to Scotland with her grown, red headed daughter, Brianna. There, she discloses to Brianna the events of her secret past, as well as the truth of whom Brianna's biological father actually is and of the love that Claire bore him.<br /><br />While in Scotland, however, Claire discovers something that will forever change her future, as well as her past. You see, for the past twenty years, Claire has believed that her beloved \\"Jamie\\" died in the historic battle of Culloden. It was there that the Scottish highlanders bravely fought the English in a misguided attempt to restore Charles Stuart, their bonny Prince Charlie, to the English throne, only to be decimated and branded as Jacobite traitors. It was this very event that she and James Fraser had conspired to change only to fail. It was this failure that brought Claire and \\"Jamie\\" to a crossroad that would force them to part and have Brianna become a denizen of the twentieth century.<br /><br />This book continues the saga so deftly begun in \\"Outlander\\". It tells the story of what happened in the eighteenth century that ultimately caused Claire to leave the love of her life and return to the twentieth century. It recounts the plight of two star crossed lovers who make a desperate and valiant attempt to change the course of history. It regales the reader with the adventures they encounter along the way. It is a story that transports the reader from the turmoil of the Scottish highlands to the intrigue of the French Court.<br /><br />Readers will be captivated by this amazing and compelling time travel saga.of her twentieth century husband, Frank, Claire returns to Scotland with her grown, red headed daughter, Brianna. There, she discloses to Brianna the events of her secret past, as well as the truth of whom Brianna's biological father actually is and of the love that Claire bore him.<br /><br />While in Scotland, however, Claire discovers something that will forever change her future, as well as her past. You see, for the past twenty years, Claire has believed that her beloved \\"Jamie\\" died in the historic battle of Culloden. It was there that the Scottish highlanders bravely fought the English in a misguided attempt to restore Charles Stuart, their bonny Prince Charlie, to the English throne, only to be decimated and branded as Jacobite traitors. It was this very event that she and James Fraser had conspired to change only to fail. It was this failure that brought Claire and \\"Jamie\\" to a crossroad that would force them to part and have Brianna become a denizen of the twentieth century.<br /><br />This book continues the saga so deftly begun in \\"Outlander\\". It tells the story of what happened in the eighteenth century that ultimately caused Claire to leave the love of her life and return to the twentieth century. It recounts the plight of two star crossed lovers who make a desperate and valiant attempt to change the course of history. It regales the reader with the adventures they encounter along the way. It is a story that transports the reader from the turmoil of the Scottish highlands to the intrigue of the French Court.<br /><br />Readers will be captivated by this amazing and compelling time travel saga.	2005-02-19
344169:US	49355567	R5NGY3OXATHWU	0425064409	606443502	The Keep	Books	5	3	3	N	N	SOMETHING WICKED THIS WAY COMES...	I first read this book over twenty years ago, when it was first released and loved it. I decided that it was time to give it another go around to see if my original opinion of it still held. Well, time has certainly not diminished the power of this book to hold the reader in its thrall. I still love this book, and it remains my favorite book by this author.<br /><br />As far as horror stories go, this one is definitely up with the best of them. The author has written a riveting page turner with this tautly written, inventive tale. The author has taken some vampire folklore and given it a new twist. In the hands of this master of the horror genre, the quintessential battle between good and evil takes on a new dimension.<br /><br />In Romania, deep in the heart of the Transylvanian Alps, lies the Dinu Pass. In April of 1941, a small squadron of German soldiers has been ordered to  occupy a small, deserted, five hundred year old castle keep at the Dinu pass. From the beginning, Captain Klaus Woermann senses that there is something unusual about the keep. Looking as if it had just been built and inlaid with brass and nickel crosses in every corridor, crosses that the caretaker for the keep exhorts the Germans not to touch, the keep is an architectural oddity.<br /><br />Soon the games begin, as an unseen force begins murdering his men. Captain Woermann sends a message to the high command. To his dismay, they respond by sending a Nazi squadron of einsatzkommandos under the leadership of SS Major Kaempffer to quell whatever local guerilla activity is, undoubtedly, responsible for the murders. Soon, these death's head troopers begin succumbing to the same fate as their German Army counterparts, and all hell breaks loose.<br /><br />Enter the ailing Dr. Theodor Cuza, a Romanian Jew and former professor  at the University of Bucharest. Although suffering from the ravages of scleroderma, he is ordered by the Nazis to the keep, as he is an expert in the history of the region. It is hoped that he will be able to shed some light on the mysterious keep and enable his hosts to defeat their unknown adversary.<br /><br />Accompanied by Magda, his daughter, they find themselves confronted with the cruelty of the Nazis, the unexpected kindness of Captain Woermann, and something from their worst nightmares that has them call into question their deepest beliefs. Then, a mysterious red-headed stranger with piercing blue eyes also appears, and nothing is ever the same again.<br /><br />This is one of the premier horror stories of all time. Bravo!It is hoped that he will be able to shed some light on the mysterious keep and enable his hosts to defeat their unknown adversary.<br /><br />Accompanied by Magda, his daughter, they find themselves confronted with the cruelty of the Nazis, the unexpected kindness of Captain Woermann, and something from their worst nightmares that has them call into question their deepest beliefs. Then, a mysterious red-headed stranger with piercing blue eyes also appears, and nothing is ever the same again.<br /><br />This is one of the premier horror stories of all time. Bravo!	2005-02-19
344269:US	49355567	R24W797CPJSPRC	8528609979	971000770	Anjos Caídos	Books	4	0	0	N	N	DECEPTIONS AND PERCEPTIONS...	This is the Portuguese text edition of \\"Falling Angels\\", a book that covers a period of time in the lives of two families, from January 1901,  the end of the Victorian era, to May 1910,  the end of the Edwardian one. The lives of these two families, the Colemans and the Waterhouses, converge and become inextricably woven together when they inadvertently meet at a cemetery while paying their respects to deceased loved ones. Unbeknownst to them, their lives are moving inexorably towards a tragic denouement, one that is to have ramifications for both families.<br /><br />Two of the daughters of these respective families, Lavinia Waterhouse and Maude Coleman, find that they have formed the beginning of a  friendship during the brief interlude at the cemetery.  The two girls also befriend Simon Field, the son of one of the gravediggers at the cemetery.  The  friendship of the two girls is cemented when they later discover that they are to be neighbors, as through happenstance the Waterhouse family moves onto a property adjacent to that of the Colemans. Despite differences in social class and personal taste, as the Waterhouses are definitely sentimentally  bourgeois and the Colemans have pretensions to more refinement, the families are brought together, however unwillingly, through the friendship between Lavinia and Maude.<br /><br />The mothers of these two girls are unable to form a true friendship, as stolid  Gertrude Waterhouse and pretty Kitty Coleman are unable to find much common ground. Gertrude is bound in tradition, while Kitty, dissatisfied with her marriage and her life, is looking to escape tradition and expand the role allotted in society to women. Never the twain shall meet, as these women will never see eye-to-eye, despite the friendship between Lavinia and Maude.<br /><br />This is a well-plotted novel with each character adding his or her perspective to the events that unfold, many of which are of a secretive nature.  Even the husbands, Albert Waterhouse and Richard Coleman, have something to say that contributes to the development of the story, as does Richard Coleman's mother, Edith, as do the Coleman's maid, Jenny Whitby, and their cook, Dorothy Baker. Lavinia's younger sister, Ivy May, who plays a small but pivotal role,  also has her say, as does Kitty's admirer, John Jackson. There are also a number of twists and turns in the tale.<br /><br />The story is told in the clean, spare prose that fans of the author have come to expect.  It is told through first person narratives, and it is almost as if the narratives were taken from the personal diary or journal of each character. Therein lies the rub, as the author is unable to make the voice of each character truly distinguishable from that of the others. The book suffers somewhat from the failure of the author to develop a truly unique voice for each one.  This is, however, the only failing of this otherwise absorbing and intriguing story that is suffused with period detail. This is an otherwise excellent book that fans of the author will enjoy, as will those who love historical fiction.and Richard Coleman, have something to say that contributes to the development of the story, as does Richard Coleman's mother, Edith, as do the Coleman's maid, Jenny Whitby, and their cook, Dorothy Baker. Lavinia's younger sister, Ivy May, who plays a small but pivotal role,  also has her say, as does Kitty's admirer, John Jackson. There are also a number of twists and turns in the tale.<br /><br />The story is told in the clean, spare prose that fans of the author have come to expect.  It is told through first person narratives, and it is almost as if the narratives were taken from the personal diary or journal of each character. Therein lies the rub, as the author is unable to make the voice of each character truly distinguishable from that of the others. The book suffers somewhat from the failure of the author to develop a truly unique voice for each one.  This is, however, the only failing of this otherwise absorbing and intriguing story that is suffused with period detail. This is an otherwise excellent book that fans of the author will enjoy, as will those who love historical fiction.	2005-02-19
344457:US	49355567	R1E8XRODG9MEPF	8501062162	131885626	Do Fundo Dos Seus Olhos	Books	4	0	0	N	N	...AND A CHILD SHALL LEAD THEM...	This is the Portuguese text edition of the book, \\"From the Corner of His Eye\\", which book is an interesting melange of genres. It is at once mystical, suspenseful, horror filled, part sci-fi, and tinged with the supernatural.<br /><br />Add to this a little boy with beautiful eyes, who is a child prodigy, gifted beyond his years, and capable of entering parallel universes or realities; a child who can literally walk in the rain without getting wet. Add yet another unusually gifted child prodigy named \\"Angel\\" who was conceived out of a violent rape. Mix in the rapist, who is also a socio-pathic killer, along with a priest turned cop who is aware of the existence of parallel or alternate realities, because he has the ability to send inanimate objects there. Stir in a woman whose goodness is almost legendary. What do you have? You have a best seller on your hands!<br /><br />The book is a very quick, easy read. You won't want to put it down. The only real criticism is the fact that about twenty five years are crammed into the last dozen pages. It is as if the author had a limit on how long the book could be and had to have it end before it exceeded the limit. Having taken about six hundred pages to get to a certain stage, it was a little jarring to go at warp speed for the last dozen pages. Still, all in all, it is a good read.	2005-02-19
344484:US	49355567	R3EM4G7URHYIVA	3596148359	394654949	Im Falle meines Todes.	Books	5	0	0	N	N	MOVE OVER MARY HIGGINS CLARK...THE HEIR APPARENT IS HERE...	This is the German Text edition of the suspense novel, \\"In the Event of My Death\\". If you are a reader who enjoys such novels,  then surely you will find this one to be a rip-roaring good read. There are enough red herrings, enough twists and turns, to keep one guessing until the very end. So, hang on to your seat and enjoy the ride!<br /><br />The premise here is simple. Thirteen years ago, six teenage girls who had formed a secret club called the Six of Hearts, decide to let loose, drink, and dabble in a psuedo satanic ritual in a deserted farmhouse in Wheeling, West Virginia. Before the night is over, one of them ends up dead. The surviving five swear to a pact of secrecy to never reveal what really happened.<br /><br />Thirteen years later, one of them dies a violent death at the hand of an unknown person who leaves behind a clue that those who were members of the Six of Hearts club are at risk. Laurel Damron, a flower shop owner and one of the club members, begins to receive chilling mementos which can only mean one thing: that she, too, is marked for death. One by one, all the remaining club members claim to have received frightening mail which lead them all to the same conclusion as Laurel.<br /><br />Who will be next, and who is responsible for this? That is a question upon which the reader may well ponder, as the reader sifts through the byzantine twists in the plot. Gripping and absorbing, this novel is sure to hold the reader in suspense until the very end.	2005-02-19
344496:US	49355567	R87HZ4ZSJBJFN	2290310395	994774654	Rhapsodie en noir	Books	5	0	0	N	N	MYSTERY, ROMANCE, AND SUSPENSE...ALL ROLLED INTO ONE...	The author is simply one of the best writers of this genre. She is better than Mary Higgins Clark who is the maven for this type of book. This is the French text edition of her romantic suspense novel, \\"Tonight You're Mine\\", in which Ms. Thompson keeps the reader guessing until the very end, with so many twists and turns in the plot. It is an absorbing and compelling page turner.<br /><br />Fifteen years ago, a vivacious, nineteen year old college student, Nicole Sloan, was having a scintillating love affair with handsome, sophisticated, world reknowned pianist, Paul Dominic. Little did she realize that her world would crumble, when she was tossed into a maelstrom of violence that would change her life, as well as Paul's, forever.<br /><br />Now thirty four years old, Niclole is mother to a precocious eight year girl and married to a philandering college professor, Roger Chandler, who is leaving her for a twenty year old college student. Adding to her personal pain is the fact that her beloved father inexplicably commits suicide. As her personal life begins to fall apart around her, she is also beset by a series of murders which appear to be happening to people whom she knows. Somehow, these events are tied into the violent and tragic events of her past.<br /><br />Moreover, Paul Dominic, the man whom she loved and believed to have died in a car crash shortly after her life was ripped apart by violence fifteen years earlier, may not be dead after all. Or is he? Confused by the mayhem which seems to be happening around her, and baffled by her sighting of a man who reminds her of Paul and who appears to be watching over her, Nicole sets about trying to unravel a seeming tapestry of intrigue. It is only in understanding her past, however, that her present will make itself clear.	2005-02-19
344618:US	49355567	R1EOOK8KA3N85Q	3596145384	509103248	Sieh Mich Nicht an (German Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A GRIPPING AND HIGHLY ABSORBING THRILLER...	This is the German text edition of \\"The Way You Look Tonight\\", a terrific novel of suspense, offering the reader a riveting, page turning read. It is hard to put down, once the reader is in its thrall. Well written in spare, clean prose, it will keep most readers guessing until the very end.<br /><br />The premise is fairly simple. Deborah Robinson, a young woman and mother of an adorable and precocious set of five year old twins, suddenly has the bottom drop out of her world when her husband, Steve, a prosecuting attorney, suddenly disappears without warning. Shortly thereafter, she is stunned to discover that he is suspected of being a serial killer who, for the past eight years, has been killing young women fitting a description that matches hers.<br /><br />Delving into her husband's past, she uncovers information of which she was previously unaware, which causes her to question just what her husband may really have been hiding. Yet, despite all that she discovers, she believes steadfastedly that her husband is not what he is suspected of being.<br /><br />At the same time that this is going on, the man who had fifteen years earlier been convicted of brutally beating and raping Steve's sister, Emily, causing her to be institutionalized, is released from prison and believed to be in the area seeking revenge. Does this also have something to do with Steve's disappearance?<br /><br />Things are not always what they seem, as the reader will discover. There are enough plausible twists and turns in this novel of suspense to satisfy even the most exacting and demanding of readers. This is a gripping read from beginning to end and one of the best of its genre.	2005-02-19
344663:US	49355567	R3G29EFZNI851N	0715390031	95776530	Living on the Edge: Winter Ascent on Kanchenjunga	Books	5	3	3	N	N	PERSONAL, HARROWING ACCOUNT OF A WINTER HIMALAYAN CLIMB...	The author, Cherie Bremer-Kamp, and her lover, Chris Chandler, a medical doctor, together with the assistance of an inexperienced Sherpa guide, attempted in the dead of winter to climb the north face of Kanchenjunga, which, at 28,168 feet, is the third highest peak in the Himalayas.<br /><br />That these two, Cherie and Chris, shared a deep bond is undeniable, despite allusions to some kind of abusive behavior underlying their relationship. She and Chris met during the 1978 American ascent of K2, while she was married to another climber on that expedition. Their palpable attraction to each other was not lost on other members of that expedition, which caused a huge rift. This issue is recounted at length in Rick Ridgeway's engrossing chronicle of that expedition, \\"The Last Step\\". It was after that expedition that Cherie left her husband for Chris, her new found soul mate.<br /><br />Here, Cherie, obviously embittered by Ridgeway's account, counters with her own reminiscences of that expedition, describing the philosophical divide that had developed, an everyman for himself philosophy versus that of the brotherhood of the rope, in which one climber places his or her life in the hands of another. Cherie, as well as Chris, philosophically subscribed to the latter. It was this belief that made them foreswear large expeditions for the close communion available to those climbing in lightweight Alpine style.<br /><br />Before telling of their 1985 winter climb of Kanchenjunga, the author describes a few of their other adventures, making it clear that living on the edge was a way of life for them. She and Chris were passionately devoted to each other. It was a passion that arose deep within them, cemented by their mutual love for the mountains and for adventure, a lifestyle that demanded a symbiotic relationship. It was a demand that they had no trouble meeting.<br /><br />Cherie's account of their journey to Kanchenjunga is highly descriptive and quite engrossing. Her love of people and places is evident in the way she writes about the journey. It is always a very personal account, filled with feeling. One can almost taste the anticipation with which she and Chris looked forward to their climb. Yet, while Cherie and Chris were experienced climbers and appeared to have made adequate preparations, it seemed that the forces of nature were conspiring against them.<br /><br />The rigors of the actual climb were grueling, as they were met head on with jet stream force winds, which, when coupled with excruciatingly piercing cold, meant that they were exposed to an environment completely hostile to most living creatures. The forces of nature with which they collided, as they ascended Kanchenjunga, were literally enough to take one's breath away. It was so cold that the tensile steel posts on their crampons were breaking off. Yet, they persevered and continued climbing, driven on by their own inner resources, with tragic consequences.<br /><br />In climbing Kanchenjunga, no two could have been better prepared, each having had prior Himalayan climbing experience. Moreover, with Chris being a medical doctor and Cherie being a nurse, it can be said that they were probably better prepared than most to recognize or address any medical emergencies while on the mountain. Yet, all their combined experience and knowledge was, ultimately, insufficient to forestall the death of Chris on that most cruel of mountains. With his death, Kanchenjunga had ultimately defeated them.<br /><br />This poignantly told tale is one that will enthrall all climbing enthusiasts, as well as those readers who simply love a well told story. The many color pictures that accompany the text are beautiful and, in and of themselves, serve to explain the draw that such mountains may have for some.of people and places is evident in the way she writes about the journey. It is always a very personal account, filled with feeling. One can almost taste the anticipation with which she and Chris looked forward to their climb. Yet, while Cherie and Chris were experienced climbers and appeared to have made adequate preparations, it seemed that the forces of nature were conspiring against them.<br /><br />The rigors of the actual climb were grueling, as they were met head on with jet stream force winds, which, when coupled with excruciatingly piercing cold, meant that they were exposed to an environment completely hostile to most living creatures. The forces of nature with which they collided, as they ascended Kanchenjunga, were literally enough to take one's breath away. It was so cold that the tensile steel posts on their crampons were breaking off. Yet, they persevered and continued climbing, driven on by their own inner resources, with tragic consequences.<br /><br />In climbing Kanchenjunga, no two could have been better prepared, each having had prior Himalayan climbing experience. Moreover, with Chris being a medical doctor and Cherie being a nurse, it can be said that they were probably better prepared than most to recognize or address any medical emergencies while on the mountain. Yet, all their combined experience and knowledge was, ultimately, insufficient to forestall the death of Chris on that most cruel of mountains. With his death, Kanchenjunga had ultimately defeated them.<br /><br />This poignantly told tale is one that will enthrall all climbing enthusiasts, as well as those readers who simply love a well told story. The many color pictures that accompany the text are beautiful and, in and of themselves, serve to explain the draw that such mountains may have for some.	2005-02-19
344736:US	49355567	R1TGS2EJX1V0A5	8478884661	571667599	Forastera (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	AN ABSOLUTELY RIVETING STORY!!!!!	The is the Spanish text edition of a wonderful book, \\"Outlander\\".  A lover of historical fiction, adventure books, and books with a time travel theme, I originally hesitated buying this book, despite the very intriguing sounding plot, because it was labeled as being a romance novel. Still, curiosity won the day, and am I ever glad that it did! This has got to be one of the most engrossing and highly entertaining novels that I have ever read. Surprisingly well written, I was hooked almost immediately.<br /><br />The novel begins in the year 1945, and the plot revolves around the adventures of Claire Randall, an Englishwoman and combat nurse during World War II, who is reunited with her husband, Frank, after the war. While on a second honeymoon in Scotland, she visits a strange, flat-topped hill in the highlands of Scotland, where a forbidding stone circle draws her. Touching one of the stones, she is hurled through a vortex in time and finds herself in tumultuous, eighteenth century Scotland.<br /><br />There, she meets James Fraser, a brave and brawny Scotsman, and finds herself thrust into the midst of clan warfare and intrigue. Finding in James a soul mate, she falls passionately in love but is conflicted because of the feelings she harbors for the husband she left behind. She goes on, however, to have enough adventures to last a lifetime. What happens to these star-crossed lovers in eighteenth century Scotland is riveting.<br /><br />The author is a master storyteller and her use of historical detail is superlative. Those who love well written, historical fiction will be delighted. The book tells a rip roaring good story and is a veritable page-turner. This is the first in a now published series of five books. Having read each and every one, all I can say is...Bravo! I love each and every one of them!	2005-02-19
345458:US	49355567	RWH709I7SJNI4	8501060070	761811839	A lágrima do diabo	Books	5	0	0	N	N	MILLENNIUM MADNESS...	Author Jeffrey Deaver does it again! This is the Portuguese text edition of the book, \\"The Devil's Teardrop\\",  an immensely entertaining, page turning read for all thriller enthusiasts. The story line centers around an unknown killer unleashed upon Washington, D.C.. Known as the \\"Digger\\", this maniacal killer proceeds into D.C.'s Metro Station at 9:00 AM on New Year's Eve 1999 and begins a shooting spree that leaves many dead. The Digger has been instructed by an unknown criminal mastermind accomplice to kill hordes of people at clocked intervals on the eve of the millennium, unless a twenty million dollar demand for ransom is met. The ransom note is the only communication from this criminal genius who alone can control the actions of the killer. D.C.'s mayor agrees to pay the staggering ransom, but on the way to the drop, the accomplice appears to have been killed in a freak traffic accident. Who can now stop the \\"Digger\\" from his appointed rounds?<br /><br />Enter Parker Kincaid, document examiner extraodinaire and former FBI agent. Kincaid has been called back as a consultant to assist the FBI, which need to stop the killer before he kills again. Kincaid is a wonderful, fully fleshed character. A single parent with his own share of troubles, he is as interesting as is Lincoln Rhyme, another of Deaver's characters around whom several of his books have revolved. Interestingly enough, Rhyme has a cameo appearance in this book which should give Deaver's fans an added kick while reading this book. Like Rhyme, Kincaid is a master of deductive reasoning and is a thinking person's detective. It is interesting how his analysis of the ransom note provides clues for the FBI to follow up in their quest to stop the killer before it is too late.<br /><br />The book is filled with numerous plot twists and turns that should provide even the most jaded devotees of thrillers with a satisfying read. This action packed book keeps the reader guessing. Just when you think it's all over, you are yet once again surprised. The only criticism is that the end of the book strains the imagination. It almost borders on the absurd. Yet, such is Deaver's writing that this does not impact unduly on the absolute enjoyment one will get from reading this book. It is a riveting read!r, you are yet once again surprised. The only criticism is that the end of the book strains the imagination. It almost borders on the absurd. Yet, such is Deaver's writing that this does not impact unduly on the absolute enjoyment one will get from reading this book. It is a riveting read!	2005-02-18
345688:US	49355567	R185PTW2IW4T1C	9500421275	785848394	La partera	Books	5	1	2	N	N	EXQUISITELY WRITTEN AND ABSORBING...A NOVEL TO REMEMBER...	This is the Spanish text edition of the book, \\"Midwives\\". It is a beautifully crafted novel set in 1981, when a midwife, leading an otherwise uncomplicated and simple life with her husband and daughter in rural Vermont, is thrust into a legal, moral, political, and ethical nightmare. It evolves around a split second decision made in a life and death situation and the aftermath of that decision.<br /><br />An experienced and respected midwife, Sibyl Danforth, attends a woman during a home birth. When she realizes that dangerous complications have set in, she tries in vain to call for help, as a severe ice storm has knocked out the phone lines. An attempt to drive the expectant mother to a hospital only results in the car being wedged into an icy snow bank, as travel conditions are impossible.<br /><br />Trapped in this isolated home with a physically fragile, expectant mother in the throes of a labor that will not bear fruit, Sybil struggles to do the best that she can. Unfortunately, her best is just not good enough, given the complications that had set in, and the expectant mother appears to succumb to the ravages of a laborious childbirth.<br /><br />Under the belief that the expectant mother had died, Sibyl performs an emergency caesarean section in an effort to save the unborn child. She successfully does so, presenting the stricken husband with an infant son. Yet, the next day, her assistant, Anne, who had been present throughout the ordeal, denounces Sibyl to the authorities, claiming that the expectant mother had, in fact, been alive, when Sibyl had commenced the caesarean. Consequently, Sibyl is charged with manslaughter, and the political winds blown by the traditional medical establishment, as well as that of the legal system, threaten to tear asunder all that she holds dear.<br /><br />The story of this event, its aftermath, and the impact it had on many lives, is told through the eyes of Sibyl's daughter who had been a young teenager at the time of the incident, and through the pages of Sibyl's journal. The book takes the reader through a number of moral dilemmas for Sibyl, as well as for her daughter who is forced to come of age during this time of trial and tribulation for her family. Absorbing and often surprising, this sensitively wrought novel is a well-nuanced literary gem from a gifted writer.ncident, and through the pages of Sibyl's journal. The book takes the reader through a number of moral dilemmas for Sibyl, as well as for her daughter who is forced to come of age during this time of trial and tribulation for her family. Absorbing and often surprising, this sensitively wrought novel is a well-nuanced literary gem from a gifted writer.	2005-02-18
346018:US	49355567	RJCREPCV1ZMR0	8501058122	382958124	Colecionador de Ossos, O	Books	5	0	0	N	N	NO BONE TO PICK WITH THE BONE COLLECTOR...	This is the Portuguese text edition of an especially suspenseful thriller, \\"The Bone Collector\\", made more so by the personal angst of the main character, Lincoln Rhyme. A quadriplegic, forensic ex-detective for the New York City Police Department, Rhyme is brought out of retirement by the police department to assist them in the apprehension of an apparently psychopathic killer who is loose on the streets of New York.<br /><br />The forays into bits of arcane New York history, as well as the sleuthing done almost entirely through the application of forensics and deductive reasoning, make for a very interesting read. While at times it seems that no one could be as uncannily accurate as Rhyme in deciphering the meaning of the physical evidence, this contrivance does serve to move the plot along. With the story line so engrossing and the crime scenes horrific, as well as ingenious, it is the kind of book that is hard to put down, because you simply cannot wait to see what happens. The surprise ending is the icing on the cake.<br /><br />Assisting Rhyme with his work is Police Officer Sachs who, while not as compelling a character as Rhyme, is essential to the story. It is her character who does the 'heavy lifting' so to speak. Highly intelligent and resourceful, with an innate appreciation of the importance of physical evidence, she inspects and preserves the crime scenes, as well as gathers the physical evidence from which Rhyme ultimately weaves his magic. She also serves as somewhat of a Deus Ex Machina in that she saves the day in more ways than one.<br /><br />Sachs is a wonderful foil for Rhyme in that she runs hot to his cold. She is driven by her desire to help others, as well as by her own personal demons, while he is ever the calm, cool, collected clinician, whose desire to preserve a crime scene may supercede the milk of human kindness latent within his emotionally atrophied soul. The personal connection that Rhyme ultimately develops with Officer Sachs is one that leaves you hoping that they will be teamed up again in yet another novel.ne that leaves you hoping that they will be teamed up again in yet another novel.	2005-02-18
346349:US	49355567	R2FVGYFE58ITQ1	3720521443	819964572	Zelte auf dem Dach der Welt. Die erste Frauen- Expedition in den Himalaya.	Books	4	1	1	N	N	WOMEN IN THE CLOUDS...A BLAST FROM THE PAST...	This is the German text edition of the book, \\"Tent in the Clouds: The First Women's Himalayan Expedition\\", which is a chronicle of the historic journey made by the 1955 first all female expedition to the Himalayas. It is an amazing adventure for those Betty Crocker days. While it ocassionally reads like a buddy book, its flavor is somewhat anachronistic and reflective of itstime. It makes for a very interesting read.<br /><br />This expedition, a somewhat grandiose term for a group of three women and their Sherpas, endeavored to explore the remote and then uncharted area of Nepal called the Jugal Himal. Their journey and trek through Nepal makes for a travelogue of delightful descriptions and anecdotes.<br /><br />Unlike many modern day expeditions, these three women exhibited nothing but synchronized teamwork throughout their journey. This was not an ego trip for them. They were motivated by a genuine curiosity of the world in which they lived and an appreciation of the different people and cultures with which they came in contact.<br /><br />True adventurers, they climbed unexplored ranges and reached the summit of a 22,000 plus peak without supplementary oxygen. They did all this without any casualties. It was very important for this particular expedition to be successful, because there were many nay sayers at the time who would have been only too willing to jump up and shout that women were not fit for such a venture. Thankfully, they were able to prove them wrong. Wonen can climb and lead an expedition!	2005-02-17
346815:US	49355567	R21JEZXB8QMVT	B0006DHU68	184757711	Annapurna - The First 8,000 Metre Peak (26,493 Feet)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	EXTREME ADVENTURE FOR THE GLORY OF FRANCE...	This book is a romanticized, sanitized account of the 1950 French expedition to the Himalayas by its ostensible leader, Maurice Herzog. It is a book that is reflective of the times in which it was written. Still, it should be a must read for anyone who is interested in high altitude climbing.<br /><br />I first read this book in the early 1960s as a young teenager. I recall being enthralled by it and amazed at the hardships the climbers endured to bring glory to France. In reading it again as an adult, I find myself still enthralled, but more attuned to the fact that it is written in a somewhat self-serving style.<br /><br />The book itself chronicles the attempt by the French to climb an 8,000 meter peak in the Himalayas. They had two alternatives: Dhaulagiri and Annapurna. In those days, the Himalayas were largely uncharted and any topographical maps which existed at the time proved to be largely incorrect. So, the French expedition spent a large portion of their time in reconnaissance. Not only were they there to climb the mountain, they had to find a way to get to it and then map out a route on the unknown terrain to the summit. Ultimately, they chose to climb Annapurna.<br /><br />In reading this book, one must remember that the climb took place without the sophisticated equipment or protective clothing available today. This was before gortex and freeze-dried foods. This climb was made before Nepal or climbing the Himalayas became a major tourist attraction. The conditions for travelers were extremely primitive and difficult under the best of circumstances.<br /><br />When the expedition finally finds a route to Annapurna, the reader almost feels like cheering for them. When they start to climb, one senses that, in comparison to latter day expeditions, they are not so well equipped or savvy about the dangers one can encounter during a high altitude climb or the risks in doing it without supplemental oxygen, as they did. Then one realizes that they were pioneers. They were paving the way for others.<br /><br />The climb to the summit by Maurice Herzog and his partner, Louis Lachenal, is interesting, but it is their harrowing descent and return to civilization that is riveting. The two summiteers begin their descent but run into difficulties. They are fortunate to encounter two of their fellow climbers, Lionel Terray and Gaston Rebuffat, who are contemplating their own summit assault but, instead, choose to aid their comrades in the descent, foregoing their own quest for the summit.<br /><br />The travails which the climbers encounter on the descent would have finished off less hardy souls. Maurice Herzog loses his gloves during the descent and has no spare pair. One of them falls into a crevasse, which, believe it or not, turns out to be a good thing. They are caught in an avalanche. They get lost in a storm. They become frostbitten, and two of them are, ultimately, forced to endure amputations.<br /><br />The medical treatment they received by the expedition doctor is unbelievable and almost primitive. Employing treatments for frostbite that have since fallen onto disrepute (excruciatingly painful arterial injections, for example), the doctor is almost frightening, at times. The reader cannot help but feel pity for the suffering the injured climbers endured: maggot ridden flesh, amputations without anesthesia, and lack of proper medical care for a protracted period of time.<br /><br />The heroics of some of the Sherpas, as on most expeditions, go largely unsung. One must, however, pause to reflect on the fact that as this all took place before airlifts were available, the injured climbers had to be carried. Their exodus back to the frontier took about five weeks. Who carried them down the mountain, over the moraines, on makeshifts bridges over flooded, raging rivers, through dense jungle? Who else but the Sherpas. What thanks did they get? None, as usual.<br /><br />Anyway, when the expedition finally return to France, Maurice Herzog is lauded as a national hero by the French. He becomes the media darling. The other three climbers, as are the rest of those on the expedition, are largely ignored and forgotten. Therein lies the tale. If you want to know how this polarization came about, I highly recommend that you also read \\"True Summit\\" by David Roberts. It gives you the inside scoop about the expedition and how things really were.<br /><br />Notwithstanding its idealization, romanticism, and everything is hunky-dory routine, Herzog's book is still a must read for all climbing enthusiasts or those who simply enjoy a fascinating adventure.urice Herzog is lauded as a national hero by the French. He becomes the media darling. The other three climbers, as are the rest of those on the expedition, are largely ignored and forgotten. Therein lies the tale. If you want to know how this polarization came about, I highly recommend that you also read \\"True Summit\\" by David Roberts. It gives you the inside scoop about the expedition and how things really were.<br /><br />Notwithstanding its idealization, romanticism, and everything is hunky-dory routine, Herzog's book is still a must read for all climbing enthusiasts or those who simply enjoy a fascinating adventure.	2005-02-17
346817:US	49355567	R17IZE2DGZZZPF	0769407374	766536583	Salt of the Earth	Books	3	0	0	N	N	NEEDS A LITTLE PEPPER...	While not as gripping as the author's other works, it is still a book that those with an interest in the true crime genre will enjoy. What the author endeavors to do is provide the reader a with a glimpse into a family whose twelve year old daughter disappeared and was murdered, and how the respective family members were affected by it, and what ultimately became of them, as a result. It is not so much about the murder of the child, but more about its devastating impact on the family.<br /><br />It is also the story of a socio-pathic killer and the efforts of the bereaved family to see to it that this monster was brought to justice, no matter how long or how difficult it would be. It is not, however, a story about the victim, and therein lies the weakness in the book. For all its excellent investigative reporting, the book simply lacks the draw that it would undoubtedly have were the reader able to know more about the victim, who remains a somewhat obscure, though obviously beloved figure. Notwithstanding this, devotees of this genre should still find this book to be a worthwhile read.	2005-02-17
347072:US	49355567	R19DIEL7IHTZLI	3492227082	714369325	In die Wildnis. Allein nach Alaska.	Books	5	3	3	N	N	KING OF THE ROAD...	This is the German text edition of the book, \\"Into the Wild\\", which is a poignant, compelling narrative of an intelligent, intense, and idealistic young man, Chris McCandless, who cut off all ties to his upper, middle class family, and reinvented himself as Alexander Supertramp, a drifter living out of a backpack, eking out a marginal existence as he wandered throughout the United States. A modern day King of the Road, McCandless ended his journey in 1992 in Alaska, when he walked alone into the wilderness north of Denali. He never returned.<br /><br />Krakauer investigates this young man's short life in an attempt to explain why someone who has everything going for him would have chosen this lifestyle, only to end up dead in one of the most remote, rugged areas of the Alaskan wilderness. Whether one views McCandless as a fool or as a modern day Thoreau is a question ripe for discussion. It is clear, however, from Krakauer's writing that his investigation led him to feel a strong, spiritual kinship with McCandless. It is this kindred spirit approach to his understanding of this young man that makes Krakauer's writing so absorbing and moving.<br /><br />Krakauer retraces McCandless' journey, interviewing many of those with whom he came into contact. What develops is a haunting, riveting account of McCandless' travels and travails, and the impact he had on those with whom he came into contact. Krakauer followed McCandless' last steps into the Alaskan wilderness, so that he could see for himself how McCandless had lived, and how he had died. This book is his epitaph.	2005-02-17
350367:US	49355567	R1L59WW6ZYELXD	8433969544	24779916	Bajo La Piel (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	CREEPY...SINISTER...MACABRE...STUNNING...	This is the Spanish text edition of a wonderfully inventive novel, \\"Under the Skin\\", which is strangely compelling. It cuts across many genres, as it certainly qualifies as literary fiction, horror, satire, suspense, science fiction, and fantasy. It is extraordinarily riveting in its telling, propelled by a narrative that is all at once creepy, faintly sinister and macabre, as well as, at times, poignant. Beautifully written in clear, spare prose, this stunning novel grips the reader until the last page is turned.<br /><br />The main protagonist, Isserley, cruises the highways of the Scottish countryside in her specially equipped compact car looking for beefcake. On the prowl for muscular, well-built, healthy men who are hitchhiking, rolling stones with little or no ties to family, friends, and community, she picks them up and gets their life's story before she makes a momentous decision that will forever alter their lives.<br /><br />These unsuspecting men take note of Isserley for a number of reasons. After all, she is a tiny snippet of a being, strangely erotic, with very large, beautiful and luminous eyes, hidden behind coke bottle thick glasses. She has a small heart-shaped, puffy-cheeked, virtually chinless face, dotted with a tiny nose and lush lips. Her arms are long and thin with knobby elbows and wrists from which large scarred hands flow. Of course, her large breasts are extraordinary and ripe in her always low cut top. It is those perfect protuberances that helps her to ensnare her prey.<br /><br />Who Isserley is and what Isserley does with her prey is at the heart of this book, which is one that should not be missed by those who enjoy unusual, slightly twisted novels. Though ultimately allegorical, it is a gripping, perfectly wrought tale that conceptually defies categorization, so original and imaginative are its tantalizing plot and characters. As for Isserley, the reader will weep for her, so poignant a portrait does the author paint with his elegant prose. This is, indeed, one of my favorite books, and one that should not be missed by those who love beautifully written fiction. Bravo!t prose. This is, indeed, one of my favorite books, and one that should not be missed by those who love beautifully written fiction. Bravo!	2005-02-14
350604:US	49355567	R3EOMU8WONAVLP	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	23	47	N	N	A STUNNING AND INTRICATELY PLOTTED THRILLER...	For a while I resisted reading this book, thinking that it could not possibly be as good as its hype. Well, I was wrong. This is simply one terrific book that will keep the reader riveted to its pages until the very last one is turned. It is a very well-written, intricately plotted thriller in which a great number of esoteric historical facts and interesting theories of a religious nature are woven. Those who read it should, first and foremost, keep in mind that this book is simply a work of fiction.<br /><br />All hell breaks loose when Jacques Sauniere, the  elderly and revered curator of the Louvre, is murdered inside the museum. The crime scene and the body itself are laden with symbols and cryptic messages pointing to renowned Harvard symbologist, Robert Langdon. He is invited to the crime scene by the wily Captain Bezu Fache, of the Central Directorate Judicial Police, the French equivalent of our Federal Bureau of Investigation, ostensibly to assist the police. Little does Langdon know that he is, in fact,  the prime suspect.<br /><br />When he meets police cryptologist, Sophie Neveu, they join forces. They are then led on a merry chase by a series of riddles and ciphers that are ground in a historical context. They are always just one step of the French police, who seem determined to charge Langdon with the murder of Jacques Sauniere.  During their voyage of discovery, Langdon and Sophie come across a secret society, the Priory of Sion, that has  a startling list of former members, which list includes Leonardo Da Vinci, as well as the late Jacques Sauniere. There is also  some interesting historical detail about the ancient Knights Templar, as well as Opus Dei, a conservative religious organization currently in existence.<br /><br />Langdon and Sophie peel back layers of historical clues that point to a secret of such magnitude that some would kill for it.  As Langdon and Sophie surreptitiously travel from France to England and seem to be headed closer to the heart of the mystery that  they are trying to unravel, an  unknown nemesis is closer to them than they would dare imagine. This unknown adversary is marshaling resources in order to obtain  the long hidden secret that Langdon and Sophie appear to be on the brink of discovering. It is one that has the potential to have earth shattering implications.<br /><br />This is a fast-paced, plot driven, rather than character driven, thriller. It hurls itself into the reader's consciousness at break-neck speed, and before the reader realizes it, the book holds the reader in its thrall: hook, line, and sinker. For those readers who love historical detail and unusual facts and coincidences, this is definitely a fascinating book that will hold their interest. It is a page-turning thriller in which nearly every chapter leaves the reader on the brink of a precipice. The book is written in clear, effortless prose, which makes the most esoteric historical details surprisingly easy to understand. Simple in its presentation but intricate in its plotting, it is no surprise that this book has become a runaway, international bestseller. Bravo!e heart of the mystery that  they are trying to unravel, an  unknown nemesis is closer to them than they would dare imagine. This unknown adversary is marshaling resources in order to obtain  the long hidden secret that Langdon and Sophie appear to be on the brink of discovering. It is one that has the potential to have earth shattering implications.<br /><br />This is a fast-paced, plot driven, rather than character driven, thriller. It hurls itself into the reader's consciousness at break-neck speed, and before the reader realizes it, the book holds the reader in its thrall: hook, line, and sinker. For those readers who love historical detail and unusual facts and coincidences, this is definitely a fascinating book that will hold their interest. It is a page-turning thriller in which nearly every chapter leaves the reader on the brink of a precipice. The book is written in clear, effortless prose, which makes the most esoteric historical details surprisingly easy to understand. Simple in its presentation but intricate in its plotting, it is no surprise that this book has become a runaway, international bestseller. Bravo!	2005-02-14
350704:US	49355567	R1CFG8P6TY7TLK	0739413449	543219405	Wish You Well	Books	5	2	2	N	N	TAKE ME HOME...COUNTRY HOME...	Having read a number of David Baldacci's books, most of which are well written, engrossing thrillers, this one is quite different. It is not a thriller but, rather, a beautifully written, human drama, most of which takes place in the mountains of Virginia. The richness of the drama and the beauty of the writing convey the down home sense of feeling that is palpable in the book.<br /><br />This is a coming of age story. It is the story of the Cardinal family, as seen through the young eyes of twelve year old Louisa Mae Cardinal, known as Lou, a precocious twelve year old, whose father is a highly acclaimed writer of note with great literary distinction but little commercial success. She lives with her beloved father, her mother, and her younger brother, Oz, in New York City. The year is 1940. The family is on the brink of moving to California, when tragedy strikes, and the lives of Lou, Oz, and their mother are forever changed.<br /><br />Lou, Oz, and their now catatonic mother go to live with their paternal great-grandmother, Louisa, for whom Lou is named. This no nonsense, strong willed, loving matriarch lives high up in the Appalachian mountains of Virginia, where Lou's father grew up, and that is where Lou and Oz will now grow up. They are strangers in a strange land, big city children now living on a farm without electricity, running water, or central heat. It is there that Lou comes of age and, together with her brother, Oz, has many new experiences. They are experiences that provide rights of passage and life lessons in friendship, loyalty, loss, and redemption. She gets a large dose of the good, the bad, and the ugly in life.<br /><br />While there, big business threatens their way of life and pits the townsfolk against each other in a struggle for survival. It is a struggle that sees Louisa take a stance that will, ultimately, be the death of her, leaving the children to cope with their mother, who is physically sound, but locked in her own mind since the tragedy that changed their lives forever. The interests of big business and those of the Cardinal family clash in a Virginia courtroom in a riveting drama that is not easily forgotten. With the help of a family friend, a humble and kindly, country lawyer, things are, eventually, put to rights.<br /><br />This well written book has richly drawn characters and a sensitive and descriptive narrative that transports the reader to another time and place. It is so evocative of the hardscrabble, mountain existence, so as to make the readers feel as if they, themselves, were experiencing it. It is a sentimental journey that is calculated to tug at one's heartstrings. It is a journey, however, well worth taking. With this book, the author has set himself apart from the pack and proclaimed himself a true literary talent.agedy that changed their lives forever. The interests of big business and those of the Cardinal family clash in a Virginia courtroom in a riveting drama that is not easily forgotten. With the help of a family friend, a humble and kindly, country lawyer, things are, eventually, put to rights.<br /><br />This well written book has richly drawn characters and a sensitive and descriptive narrative that transports the reader to another time and place. It is so evocative of the hardscrabble, mountain existence, so as to make the readers feel as if they, themselves, were experiencing it. It is a sentimental journey that is calculated to tug at one's heartstrings. It is a journey, however, well worth taking. With this book, the author has set himself apart from the pack and proclaimed himself a true literary talent.	2005-02-14
359261:US	49355567	R1ZUPX6EKD594T	0848804236	661475133	Brief Gaudy Hour	Books	5	40	40	N	Y	ANNE OF THE THOUSAND DAYS...	This is a wonderful work of historical fiction in which the author weaves  gossamer threads of fact and fiction around Anne Boleyn,  one of  the most intriguing and enigmatic women who ever lived. She was a woman who would change the face of England by holding out for a crown that she would wear for a scant three years. Her will to be crowned a Queen would pave the way for the Reformation to take root in England.<br /><br />About a third of the book is devoted to establishing Anne's relationship to her family, friends, and early admirers. It details her first love affair, that with Henry Percy, the heir to the Earl of Northumberland, said to have been the love of her life, until Cardinal Wolsey, at the behest of King Henry VIII, nipped it in the bud, causing him to incur Anne's lifelong enmity. This portion of the book sets the tone for the rest of the book, grounding the events that were to follow in the context out of which they arose.<br /><br />When King Henry VIII finally made his intentions clear, Anne had no interest in ending up as the King's discarded mistress, as had Mary, her younger sister. Instead, she led King Henry VIII a merry chase for many years, refusing to become his mistress despite his ardent wooing. He became bewitched by her very being, so irresistible did he find this cultivated and intelligent young woman. Anne, however,  always kept her eye on the prize, seemingly oblivious to the pain that she was causing her rival, Katharine of Aragon,  Henry's wife and Queen of England.<br /><br />Henry, who was desperate to secure a male heir for the throne of England, eventually set in motion a series of events that were to have great ramifications for Catholicism in England. It would cause Henry to set aside  his wife of twenty years so that he could marry Anne Boleyn and have her crowned Queen of England.  It would set the stage for the Reformation in England. It would also bring about the downfall of Cardinal Wolsey, the man for whom Anne had no love and in whose destruction she positively reveled.<br /><br />Without the cautionary, staying influence of Wolsey, however, Anne would find herself unable to rein in her husband. She would see him begin to turn from a loving husband and genial king into the tyrannical despot he would eventually become. She would find herself powerless against him and without influence but would not realize it until it was too late. When Anne failed to deliver the promised male heir, having only given him the Princess Elizabeth, she found that he wished to rid himself of her by any means necessary. After having been Queen of England for nearly three years, Anne would be convicted of treason of the foulest sort and condemned to die a traitor's death.<br /><br />This well-written book is one that those who like historical fiction will enjoy. It is rich with period detail, replete with all the pomp and circumstance of the Tudor court. It also paints a well-drawn portrait of one of the most fascinating women in history.ve and in whose destruction she positively reveled.<br /><br />Without the cautionary, staying influence of Wolsey, however, Anne would find herself unable to rein in her husband. She would see him begin to turn from a loving husband and genial king into the tyrannical despot he would eventually become. She would find herself powerless against him and without influence but would not realize it until it was too late. When Anne failed to deliver the promised male heir, having only given him the Princess Elizabeth, she found that he wished to rid himself of her by any means necessary. After having been Queen of England for nearly three years, Anne would be convicted of treason of the foulest sort and condemned to die a traitor's death.<br /><br />This well-written book is one that those who like historical fiction will enjoy. It is rich with period detail, replete with all the pomp and circumstance of the Tudor court. It also paints a well-drawn portrait of one of the most fascinating women in history.	2005-02-06
359468:US	49355567	RRPET65WSV99U	0451203267	652993826	The Stranger Beside Me (Revised and Updated): 20th Anniversary	Books	5	110	112	N	Y	THIS KILLER BESIDE ME...	This is an excellent true crime book. It has an unusual twist in that the author and the subject of the book, serial killer Ted Bundy, had a platonic relationship that arose from the time they were co-workers for a Seattle, Washington crisis center. Quite frankly, the author initially had no idea that Ted Bundy was anything other than what he appeared to be: a handsome, intelligent, charismatic,  and articulate young man, who was, at the time, involved in local politics and later became a law student.<br /><br />When he became the suspect in the disappearance and murders of a number of very young, pretty women, the author was in total disbelief. As the evidence mounted against her friend, the author, who is a former police officer, could not shut her eyes to the reality that Ted Bundy was actually a very disturbed individual who was guilty of all of which he was accused and probably guilty of other such crimes for which he was not accused for evidentiary reasons. Consequently, the author would suffer some angst for many years, as she struggled to reconcile the Ted Bundy that she thought she knew with the fiend who was compelled to commit so many vicious abductions, assaults, and  murders. It is believed that at least thirty-five young women, and probably a good number more, died at the hands of Ted Bundy.<br /><br />The author details the abductions, assaults, and murders of his victims from coast to coast, which crimes were ultimately to make Ted Bundy  a nationwide household name, and an entity to be feared.  The investigative efforts of law enforcement officers in the states of Washington, Utah, Colorado, and Florida are revealed, as are Ted Bundy's arrests and his trials. She also details his two escapes from custody in Colorado, the last of which would find him heading to the sunshine state of Florida.<br /><br />Florida  was an interesting choice of state for Ted Bundy, as it is a death penalty state in which convicted felons, who have been given the death penalty, are actually executed.  Notwithstanding Florida's stance on capital crime, Ted Bundy went on to commit a slew of shocking assaults and murders in Florida for which he was ultimately arrested, tried, and convicted. Considering the fact that  Ted Bundy could have chosen to relocate to a state other than Florida after his last  escape from custody in Colorado, it almost appears as if he had a death wish by going to Florida and continuing to give in to his sick compulsion. Unfortunately for him, Florida was quite happy to make his wish come true, and on January 24, 1989, Ted Bundy was executed, and his reign of terror was finally over.<br /><br />Those who like the true crime genre will enjoy this well-written and well-researched book. It is highly detailed and contains a great deal of information, some of it quite personal due to the author's relationship with Ted Bundy. She paints a very intriguing, intimate portrait of him, one that is  three dimensional  and complex. He was definitely a man whose benign and compelling external visage was at odds with his many internal demons, as he was a prolific serial killer. Externally, Ted Bundy was the sort of man  towards whom women gravitated, and there was no dearth of Ted Bundy groupies once he made headlines.<br /><br />In the updates at the end of the book, the author theorizes as to why Ted Bundy, a young man of so much promise,  would end up the way that he did, and she provides some interesting and personal familial information from which the reader may draw his or her own conclusion. All in all, aficionados of the true crime genre will find much of interest in this book.alty, are actually executed.  Notwithstanding Florida's stance on capital crime, Ted Bundy went on to commit a slew of shocking assaults and murders in Florida for which he was ultimately arrested, tried, and convicted. Considering the fact that  Ted Bundy could have chosen to relocate to a state other than Florida after his last  escape from custody in Colorado, it almost appears as if he had a death wish by going to Florida and continuing to give in to his sick compulsion. Unfortunately for him, Florida was quite happy to make his wish come true, and on January 24, 1989, Ted Bundy was executed, and his reign of terror was finally over.<br /><br />Those who like the true crime genre will enjoy this well-written and well-researched book. It is highly detailed and contains a great deal of information, some of it quite personal due to the author's relationship with Ted Bundy. She paints a very intriguing, intimate portrait of him, one that is  three dimensional  and complex. He was definitely a man whose benign and compelling external visage was at odds with his many internal demons, as he was a prolific serial killer. Externally, Ted Bundy was the sort of man  towards whom women gravitated, and there was no dearth of Ted Bundy groupies once he made headlines.<br /><br />In the updates at the end of the book, the author theorizes as to why Ted Bundy, a young man of so much promise,  would end up the way that he did, and she provides some interesting and personal familial information from which the reader may draw his or her own conclusion. All in all, aficionados of the true crime genre will find much of interest in this book.	2005-02-06
362353:US	49355567	R2MS74CBIN8P4H	0399150838	142987744	So Many Books, So Little Time	Books	5	1	3	N	Y	I LOVE THIS BOOK!...	When I first heard about this book, I was intrigued by its premise, as I never go anywhere without at least one or two books in my bag and am a confirmed book lover and avid reader. If I go on vacation, I pack a bag just for the dozen or so books that I simply must take along with me. I am most comfortable when I am surrounded by books. In fact, I look forward to retirement, so that I will have more time to read. I simply love to read! I cannot imagine a world without books and, quite frankly, I have never understood people who say that they do not care to read.<br /><br />So, this book seemed to be right up my alley. Well, the author does not disappoint, as she takes the reader along with her on her very personal journey. Her goal, not an overly ambitious one, is a book a week for fifty-two weeks. She does not necessarily stick to her list of books, and she meanders along, changing course in mid-stream sometimes, as many of us so often do. Yet, she  always keeps up an entertaining  discourse on the book that she is reading or has read, remarking upon its place in her world. She interweaves snippets of her personal life with her thoughts on those books that she reads. She talks about authors and the impact that some of  their work has had on her, as well as her reading likes and dislikes.<br /><br />The author writes in a light and breezy conversational tone, so that, at times, it almost seems as if one old friend were talking to another about some books she had enjoyed. I was delighted to discover that we liked many of the same books for many of the same reasons. Within the pages of this book, I also happily discovered some new titles that piqued my interest. Moreover, the author, knowing  how insatiable some book lovers are, even appends three lists at the end of her book, which lists consist of books she had planned to read during that year of reading,  books she actually did read but did not discuss in her book, and books in her must read pile. What book lover is not familiar with that ubiquitous must read pile of books! Anyway, I did enjoy perusing through her lists, looking for books of interest.<br /><br />This book is a light-hearted sojourn into the world of reading and books that is meant to be a sharing of a wonderful passion. It is a funny and charming work of non-fiction.  I thank the author for sharing her thoughts and insights, as I very much enjoyed reading them. It is, as always, a pleasure to come across such an enthusiastic fellow book lover.s not familiar with that ubiquitous must read pile of books! Anyway, I did enjoy perusing through her lists, looking for books of interest.<br /><br />This book is a light-hearted sojourn into the world of reading and books that is meant to be a sharing of a wonderful passion. It is a funny and charming work of non-fiction.  I thank the author for sharing her thoughts and insights, as I very much enjoyed reading them. It is, as always, a pleasure to come across such an enthusiastic fellow book lover.	2005-02-03
362739:US	49355567	R7UA3JMYV5YGZ	0156011603	582044302	Under the Skin	Books	5	4	7	N	Y	CREEPY...SINISTER...MACABRE...STUNNING...	This is a wonderfully inventive novel that  is strangely compelling. It cuts across many genres, as it certainly qualifies as literary fiction, horror, satire,  suspense, science fiction, and fantasy. It is extraordinarily riveting in its telling, propelled by a narrative that is all at once creepy, faintly sinister and macabre, as well as, at times, poignant.  Beautifully written in clear, spare prose, this stunning novel grips the reader until the last page is turned.<br /><br />The main protagonist, Isserley, cruises the highways of the Scottish countryside in her specially equipped compact car looking for beefcake. On the prowl for muscular, well-built, healthy men who are hitchhiking, rolling stones with little or no ties to family, friends, and community, she picks them up and gets their life's story before she makes a momentous decision that will forever alter their lives.<br /><br />These unsuspecting men take note of Isserley for a number of reasons. After all, she is a tiny snippet of a being, strangely erotic, with very large, beautiful and luminous eyes, hidden behind coke bottle thick glasses. She has a small heart-shaped, puffy-cheeked, virtually chinless face, dotted with a tiny nose and lush lips. Her arms are long and thin with knobby elbows and wrists from which large scarred hands flow. Of course, her large breasts are extraordinary and ripe in her always low cut top.  It is those perfect protuberances that helps her to ensnare her prey.<br /><br />Who Isserley is and what Isserley does with her prey is at the heart of this book, which is one that should not be missed by those who enjoy unusual,  slightly twisted novels. Though ultimately allegorical, it is a gripping, perfectly wrought tale that conceptually defies categorization, so original and imaginative are its tantalizing  plot and characters. As for Isserley, the reader will weep for her, so poignant a portrait does the author paint with his elegant prose. This is, indeed, one of my favorite books, and one that should not be missed by those who love beautifully written fiction. Bravo!te books, and one that should not be missed by those who love beautifully written fiction. Bravo!	2005-02-03
364106:US	49355567	R3AIDCV18YIB8P	0822333244	890868173	Imitation of Life	Books	5	33	36	N	Y	LIMITATION OF LIFE...	This is an oldie but a goodie, and although it may seem somewhat anachronistic, in fact, almost embarrassingly and offensively so, it is well worth reading. A best selling novel when it was first released in 1933, the reader should keep in mind that much of what is in the book would today be perceived as racist. The book is reflective of a paternalistic view of African-Americans that was prevalent at the time in which this book  was written. It is certainly a view that is jarring in these more enlightened times, as the books reflects the nature of the racism that was then inherent in our society. This is not a book that would be written today, as modern society, though still racist in many ways, would view it as being totally politically incorrect.<br /><br />That being said, the book focuses on two female characters, Bea Pullman, a white teenage widow living in Atlantic City, New Jersey with her elderly father and a baby daughter named  Jessie,  and Delilah Johnston, a young black widow with a light-skinned baby daughter named Peola.  Both women are struggling to survive in  pre-World War I society, where the lot of widows in a man's world could be a difficult one.  When they join forces, an alliance born of necessity is forged.  Delilah becomes Bea's housekeeper and caregiver, taking on the traditional woman's role, while Bea struggles to be the breadwinner in a world not yet hospitable to the idea of a business woman.<br /><br />When Delilah's culinary talents merge with Bea's innate business acumen, they are both on their way to fame and fortune. Before you know it, Bea is making a mint with Delilah's recipes, running a successful chain of B. Pullman waffle emporiums, which are presided over by a mammy figure imitative of Delilah, as well as a successful line of candy called Delilah's hearts, bearing Delilah's beaming image on the box. Delilah, thus, becomes a beloved icon, a sort of revered mammy, but a mammy, nonetheless. Bea, on the other hand, remains somewhat of a behind-the-scene enigma,  eventually branching  out into real estate development and  becoming a phenomenon for a  woman of that time.<br /><br />Meanwhile, Delilah continues to remain with Bea, living with her and waiting on her, always the perennial mammy. While Bea always treats Delilah with affection and care, there is not a level playing field between the two.  Delilah treats Bea with worshipping servitude, while Bea treats Delilah as if she were a beloved family retainer. There is something reminiscent of the old master/slave dichotomy in their relationship. Moreover, while Bea is cognizant of Delilah's contribution to her financial success, they are not contractual business partners, as Bea pays Delilah a salary, though a lesser one than Bea would like, as Delilah refuses raises. Moreover, although there is great affection between the two, the issue of color is always there, both overtly and covertly.<br /><br />Meanwhile, the years have passed, and Delilah's light-skinned daughter, Peola,  clearly knows the score. She certainly has no intention of being anyone's mammy and wants to pass for white, as she does not wish to be relegated to second class citizenry. She does not try to do this because she wants to be white, but rather, she wants the advantages associated with being white in that time. She simply wants what Jessie has.  Hers is not a decision based upon race self-hate, but one that is based upon a realistic assessment of how she could be all she could be.  Peola's philosophy is that there is nothing wrong in passing, but rather, the wrong is inherent in a world that would  make such necessary. Still, Peola breaks Delilah's heart by doing this, and Delilah is sustained only by her stalwart faith in God. When Delilah dies, a waffle queen icon to millions,  the person dearest to her heart, her own flesh and blood, is missing from her funeral cortege.<br /><br />Bea is not without her share of heartbreak, as well. She spends years struggling tomake that almighty buck and ensure that everyone within  the sphere of her hearth is taken take of financially. She rises to great heights in the business world, leaving little time for that man lovin' that  Delilah is always talking about.  Bea struggles to give her daughter Jessie all the advantages she never had. When Bea finally falls in love with Flake, a man several years younger than her and a trusted business confidant, she finds that her daughter has already laid claim to his heart. Without that man lovin' and with her beloved  Delilah having gone to meet her Maker, Bea is left to face her imitation of life.<br /><br />This is really a wonderful soaper of a book. From it would flow two successful, though controversial, film adaptations.  Both the 1934 version with Claudette Colbert and Louise Beavers, as well as the 1959 one starring Lana Turner and Juanita Moore, are terrific and  well worth seeing. Though both are loose adaptations, it is the 1934 version that is probably the one truest to the book. In the context of today's society, however, each film will shock the viewer's sensibilities with its political incorrectness, as will the book.make that almighty buck and ensure that everyone within  the sphere of her hearth is taken take of financially. She rises to great heights in the business world, leaving little time for that man lovin' that  Delilah is always talking about.  Bea struggles to give her daughter Jessie all the advantages she never had. When Bea finally falls in love with Flake, a man several years younger than her and a trusted business confidant, she finds that her daughter has already laid claim to his heart. Without that man lovin' and with her beloved  Delilah having gone to meet her Maker, Bea is left to face her imitation of life.<br /><br />This is really a wonderful soaper of a book. From it would flow two successful, though controversial, film adaptations.  Both the 1934 version with Claudette Colbert and Louise Beavers, as well as the 1959 one starring Lana Turner and Juanita Moore, are terrific and  well worth seeing. Though both are loose adaptations, it is the 1934 version that is probably the one truest to the book. In the context of today's society, however, each film will shock the viewer's sensibilities with its political incorrectness, as will the book.	2005-02-02
367320:US	49355567	R1SERS7QRWAUSO	0808519271	882375795	Giants in the Earth	Books	5	2	2	N	N	THEY CAME...THEY SAW...THEY CONQUERED...	This is the first in a trilogy of books about the Norwegian settlement of the Dakota Territory. The second book is titled, \\"Peder Victorious\\", and the third and last book is titled, \\"Their Fathers' God.\\" The author, a Norwegian who emigrated to the United States in 1896 and eventually became a professor at St. Olaf's College, wrote it in Norwegian, but it is every bit as American as apple pie.<br /><br />This is a beautifully written, lyrical book about the experiences of the early Norwegians who settled in the vast prairie of the Dakota Territory during the latter half of the nineteenth century. It speaks of their isolation and desolation, as well as of the hardships inherent in pioneering so far West with so little resources at hand with which to do so. Dependent solely upon their inner resources, hard work, ingenuity, and whatever goods they had managed to haul with them, these peasant, would-be-farmers from Norway would be the stuff of which this country was made. Their resilience in the face of relentless hardship, adversity, and deprivation is stunning, as is their belief in a better life.<br /><br />The story focuses on a small group of Norwegians who traveled together from the same small fishing hamlet in Norway and formed a settlement. Pioneers, they paved the way for those who were yet to come. The author details their trials and tribulations, with the focal figure of this group being an individual by the name of Per Hansa, who arrived in the vast prairie of the Dakota territory with his wife, Beret, and their three children. Yet, despite these central characters, all that happens revolves around the land and the elements that sustain it and drain it from season to season.<br /><br />It is Per Hansa, however, who, perhaps, best epitomizes the enterprising spirit of the first settlers to the Dakota Territory, while his wife, Beret, represents those whose coping mechanisms were less able to make a smooth transition to their new environs. Per Hansa, bursting with energy and enthusiasm, is a man who thinks out of the box and refuses to let the elements get the best of him. He is a natural leader upon whom the others rely, a symbol of the pioneering spirit that revolutionized this country and made it great.<br /><br />Beret, on the other hand, symbolizes those who see a relentless uphill fight to try to make something out of seemingly nothing. She fails to see the beauty around her, seeing only the stillness, the isolation, and what she perceives as the interminable loneliness. Therein lies the heart of the dichotomy in their relationship, as Per Hansa sees his cup as half full, while Beret sees hers as half empty.<br /><br />Yet, despite Per Hansa's joy in the land, there is an underlying bittersweet moroseness that permeates the book that serves to underscore the great sacrifice that these early pioneers had to make in order for their settlement of the Great Plains of the Dakota Territory to work. It is grounded in an understanding by the author of the Norwegian immigrant culture and experience. It is a book that is brimming with feeling and written by an author who had the soul of a poet. Those who have read and enjoyed the quartet of books written by Swedish author, Vilhelm Moberg, about the early Swedish settlers of Minnesota, will likewise enjoy this book, as will all those who love lyrically written historical fiction. I very much look forward to reading the remaining two books in this trilogy.with energy and enthusiasm, is a man who thinks out of the box and refuses to let the elements get the best of him. He is a natural leader upon whom the others rely, a symbol of the pioneering spirit that revolutionized this country and made it great.<br /><br />Beret, on the other hand, symbolizes those who see a relentless uphill fight to try to make something out of seemingly nothing. She fails to see the beauty around her, seeing only the stillness, the isolation, and what she perceives as the interminable loneliness. Therein lies the heart of the dichotomy in their relationship, as Per Hansa sees his cup as half full, while Beret sees hers as half empty.<br /><br />Yet, despite Per Hansa's joy in the land, there is an underlying bittersweet moroseness that permeates the book that serves to underscore the great sacrifice that these early pioneers had to make in order for their settlement of the Great Plains of the Dakota Territory to work. It is grounded in an understanding by the author of the Norwegian immigrant culture and experience. It is a book that is brimming with feeling and written by an author who had the soul of a poet. Those who have read and enjoyed the quartet of books written by Swedish author, Vilhelm Moberg, about the early Swedish settlers of Minnesota, will likewise enjoy this book, as will all those who love lyrically written historical fiction. I very much look forward to reading the remaining two books in this trilogy.	2005-01-31
374092:US	49355567	R2EHYY5SE2644C	1400039630	236236705	Der Zaubergarten (German Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	WHEN EAST MEETS WEST...	This is the German text edition of an exquisitely written and superlative, multi-generational novel, \\"Of Marriageable Age\\", which is delicately woven with gossamer threads of human experience. It is a story of human frailties, passions, and cultural traditions. It is a spellbinding tale of several people who become unforgettable to the reader. It is an epic saga of individuals who are connected across time in a way none of them could have foreseen. A wellspring of cultural differences bear upon their futures and send them along paths none of them could have envisioned. It is, above all, a story of forbidden love that would impact on others for generations to come.<br /><br />This is the story of Savitri, a native of India, a Brahmin beauty, a healer, who fell in love with David, the son of the wealthy English family for whom she and her parents worked. Her love for David would remain constant, despite those in her own family who would seek to destroy it.<br /><br />This is the story of David, the English boy who grew up in British colonial India and never forgot his childhood sweetheart, despite the cultural and racial roadblocks placed in his path by those who did not have the gift to look into the soul of another.<br /><br />This is the story of Nat, the boy who straddled two cultures, Indian and English, whose mysterious ancestry threatened to prevent him from being united with the woman who held the key to his heart and soul.<br /><br />This is the story of Saroj, a Guyanese beauty of Indian descent, who wanted to leave the old ways, the ways of mysterious south east Asia, the ways of India, and embrace those of the west, only to find that her soul mate was one in whom both cultures had made peace.<br /><br />This is, above all else, a spellbinding story of love and passion that runs so deep that time would sustain it forever. Underlying this story are the threads of a mystery that are subtly woven into its fabric. This novel is a panoramic and sweeping saga that will cause the reader to be swept away by its depth, its richness of language, and its vividly drawn characters, and descriptive detail. The author, a very gifted writer and talented storyteller, has written a novel that will keep the reader riveted to its pages until the very last.t will cause the reader to be swept away by its depth, its richness of language, and its vividly drawn characters, and descriptive detail. The author, a very gifted writer and talented storyteller, has written a novel that will keep the reader riveted to its pages until the very last.	2005-01-25
374828:US	49355567	R2QQI3AYC0EUOD	0515114057	536628119	Survival: A Novel of the Donner Party	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	THE TRAGIC ORDEAL OF THE DONNER PARTY...	This book is a novel that is based upon one of the most tragic ordeals in pioneering history. It tells the story of the Donner party, and the author  does not stray too far from the truth, credibly weaving historical fact with fiction. The author expertly tells the story of this wagon train of people who in July 1846 started off with high hopes for California via a new, untried route through the Sierras. Their decision to separate from a larger convoy of wagon trains, traveling along a tried and true route, in order to take this new, purportedly shorter route to California,  was one that would haunt them for the rest of their journey, as the new route was not what it was claimed to be. The inexperience of these travelers, the poor decisions that were sometimes made, and their seeming inability to truly unify as one entity, all contributed to their ultimate debacle.<br /><br />Beleaguered by thirst as they trekked across a desert, marauded by Indians along the way, plagued by the loss of necessary oxen and cattle, beset by accidents and personal squabbles that would sometimes turn deadly, they would finally reach the Sierras and begin their perilous crossing, only to find themselves snowbound at the summit while within sight of the pass that they needed to cross to be home free. Trapped by the weather in early November, they would set up a make-shift camp, never thinking about just how long their encampment would last. With minimal food supplies at their disposal, these intrepid, westward-ho emigrants would find themselves trapped for months, facing incredible hardships that would tax them beyond human endurance. Some would eventually resort to cannibalism in order to survive.<br /><br />This is a riveting story about survival of the fittest, about personal sacrifice, and human foibles. It is a story that reflects the human spirit, both good and bad, in time of crisis. The author brings to life many of those who were to play a pivotal role in the affairs of the Donner party. Their story is told in flashback, as one of the last living survivors, Virginia Reed, recalls those fateful events that were to engulf the Donner party. Despite some artistic license, the core story remains true to the facts. Fairly well-written and eminently readable, those who are interested in the basic story of the Donner party will find it within the pages of this book.r party. Their story is told in flashback, as one of the last living survivors, Virginia Reed, recalls those fateful events that were to engulf the Donner party. Despite some artistic license, the core story remains true to the facts. Fairly well-written and eminently readable, those who are interested in the basic story of the Donner party will find it within the pages of this book.	2005-01-25
375314:US	49355567	R1MY6MI68Q9HT5	064157634X	991280088	The Color of Water: A Black Man's Tribute to His White Mother	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A VALENTINE FOR MOM...	This book is, indeed, a tribute to the author's mother. In it, the author, a man whose mother was white and his father black, tells two stories: that of his mother and his own. Tautly written in spare, clear prose, it is a wonderful story of a bi-racial family who succeeded and achieved the American dream, despite the societal obstacles placed in its way.<br /><br />The author's mother was a Polish Orthodox Jew who migrated to America at the age of two with her family  during the early nineteen twenties. They ultimately settled down in Virginia, where she led an isolated and lonely life; shunned by whites because she was Jewish and shunned by blacks because she was white. She was raised in a predominantly black neighborhood, where her father, a despicable and harsh man who brutalized his handicapped wife, ran a local grocery store, where he priced gouged his black clientele.<br /><br />She left home and moved to New York when she was nineteen and never looked back. She met and married the author's father, a black man, when mixed race marriages were still frowned upon by both whites and blacks. Still, she always felt more comfortable around blacks than around whites. When he died sixteen years later, she married another black man who nurtured her eight children by the author's father and proceeded to give her four more children.<br /><br />The author tells of his childhood, of his family, and of the issue of race that ultimately colored his life while growing up in predominantly black neighborhoods, where his mother stood out like a sore thumb because of the color of her skin. It was always an issue his mother avoided discussing with him, as for her it was not an issue. It was not until the author wrote this book that his mother discussed the issue of race within the context of her own life.  From this dialogue emerges a fascinating look at the issues of race, as well as religion, and how it impacts on an individual's identity within our race conscious society.<br /><br />It is also a very personal story. While the author's family was economically disadvantaged, his eccentric and  independent mother always stressed education. She was a strict disciplinarian who brooked no nonsense from her twelve children. A convert to Christianity through her first husband, with whom she founded a Baptist church, she provided her children with the will to succeed.  Consequently, all twelve eventually went to college and did her proud. The story of this unique family is told from two distinct, parallel perspectives: that of the author and that of his mother. While both are interesting, it is his mother's story that dominates this beautifully written book, which is, indeed, a tribute to her. It is truly a story told from the heart, as the love that the author has for his mother is evident with every written word.<br />It is also a very personal story. While the author's family was economically disadvantaged, his eccentric and  independent mother always stressed education. She was a strict disciplinarian who brooked no nonsense from her twelve children. A convert to Christianity through her first husband, with whom she founded a Baptist church, she provided her children with the will to succeed.  Consequently, all twelve eventually went to college and did her proud. The story of this unique family is told from two distinct, parallel perspectives: that of the author and that of his mother. While both are interesting, it is his mother's story that dominates this beautifully written book, which is, indeed, a tribute to her. It is truly a story told from the heart, as the love that the author has for his mother is evident with every written word.	2005-01-24
375315:US	49355567	R23IU5CDNLD0F5	0312318103	791395944	Pharos: A Ghost Story	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	A HAUNTING AND ATMOSPHERIC GHOST STORY...	This is an intriguing and spooky, old fashioned ghost story, set in nineteenth century Scotland in a lighthouse on a remote island. At the lighthouse lives Cameron, the Principal Keeper of the Lighthouse, as well as Simon, his new assistant.<br /><br />Life is very structured and routine on the island. Cameron and Simon work side by side in tandem, as they maintain the lighthouse and keep its nightly beacon of light burning brightly. They life a simple though apparently solitary life. Yet, at the opposite end of the island, a young golden girl sits in a trance by a crypt.<br /><br />One day, Simon finds a woman with long dark hair and  large gray eyes submerged beneath a bed of seaweed. This woman has no memory of who she is or from where she came. They arbitrarily name her Lucia after a ship that once wrecked itself on the rocks off shore. From the moment she is found,  however, nothing is ever the same on that island.<br /><br />Not even the arrival on the island of Charlotte, Cameron's no nonsense sister, can offset the growing sense of dread and wonder that  oppressively seems to permeate the island. A sense of evil and of things being not quite right lays like a miasma over all.<br /><br />This is an atmospheric and evocative novella that will keep the reader turning its pages. Those readers who like ghost stories will have an appreciation for this book.	2005-01-24
376391:US	49355567	RQMHII5GQ66JE	1417624345	58338023	Angeles Fugaces	Books	4	0	0	N	N	INTRIGUING HISTORICAL FICTION...	This book covers the period in the lives of two families that stretches from January 1901,  the end of the Victorian era, to May 1910,  the end of the Edwardian one. The lives of these two families, the Colemans and the Waterhouses, converge and become inextricably woven together when they inadvertently meet at a cemetery while paying their respects to deceased loved ones. Unbeknownst to them, their lives are moving inexorably towards a tragic denouement, one that is to have ramifications for both families.<br /><br />Two of the daughters of these respective families, Lavinia Waterhouse and Maude Coleman, find that they have formed the beginning of a  friendship during the brief interlude at the cemetery.  The two girls also befriend Simon Field, the son of one of the gravediggers at the cemetery.  The  friendship of the two girls is cemented when they later discover that they are to be neighbors, as through happenstance the Waterhouse family moves onto a property adjacent to that of the Colemans. Despite differences in social class and personal taste, as the Waterhouses are definitely sentimentally  bourgeois and the Colemans have pretensions to more refinement, the families are brought together, however unwillingly, through the friendship between Lavinia and Maude.<br /><br />The mothers of these two girls are unable to form a true friendship, as stolid  Gertrude Waterhouse and pretty Kitty Coleman are unable to find much common ground. Gertrude is bound in tradition, while Kitty, dissatisfied with her marriage and her life, is looking to escape tradition and expand the role allotted in society to women. Never the twain shall meet, as these women will never see eye-to-eye, despite the friendship between Lavinia and Maude.<br /><br />This is a well-plotted novel with each character adding his or her perspective to the events that unfold, many of which are of a secretive nature.  Even the husbands, Albert Waterhouse and Richard Coleman, have something to say that contributes to the development of the story, as does Richard Coleman's mother, Edith, as do the Coleman's maid, Jenny Whitby, and their cook, Dorothy Baker. Lavinia's younger sister, Ivy May, who plays a small but pivotal role,  also has her say, as does Kitty's admirer, John Jackson. There are also a number of twists and turns in the tale.<br /><br />The story is told in the clean, spare prose that fans of the author have come to expect.  It is told through first person narratives, and it is almost as if the narratives were taken from the personal diary or journal of each character. Therein lies the rub, as the author is unable to make the voice of each character truly distinguishable from that of the others. The book suffers somewhat from the failure of the author to develop a truly unique voice for each one.  This is, however, the only failing of this otherwise absorbing and intriguing story that is suffused with period detail. This is the Spanish text edition of an otherwise excellent book that fans of the author will enjoy, as will those who love historical fiction.ntributes to the development of the story, as does Richard Coleman's mother, Edith, as do the Coleman's maid, Jenny Whitby, and their cook, Dorothy Baker. Lavinia's younger sister, Ivy May, who plays a small but pivotal role,  also has her say, as does Kitty's admirer, John Jackson. There are also a number of twists and turns in the tale.<br /><br />The story is told in the clean, spare prose that fans of the author have come to expect.  It is told through first person narratives, and it is almost as if the narratives were taken from the personal diary or journal of each character. Therein lies the rub, as the author is unable to make the voice of each character truly distinguishable from that of the others. The book suffers somewhat from the failure of the author to develop a truly unique voice for each one.  This is, however, the only failing of this otherwise absorbing and intriguing story that is suffused with period detail. This is the Spanish text edition of an otherwise excellent book that fans of the author will enjoy, as will those who love historical fiction.	2005-01-23
376454:US	49355567	R3ETRKXJ6HHVP7	968160539X	509503109	Antropología de la pobreza : cinco familias (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A FASCINATING LOOK AT MEXICAN FAMILIES IN THE 1950s...	I first read this book many years ago, along with some of the author's other works, and decided to take read it again. Time certainly has not diminished the power of the author,  winner of the 1967 National Book Award for his book, \\"La Vida\\",  to take the reader into the lives of others. This is the Spanish text edition of the author's anthropological work, \\"Five Families\\", which reads as if it were a riveting novel, so fascinating is its subject matter.<br /><br />The author takes the reader into the lives of five different Mexican families for one entire day, so that the reader can see how it is that they live their lives. The families are both rural and urban and represent a cross-section of Mexico at the time that this book was written. All but one of the families portrayed are poor, yet they all share some similar characteristics.<br /><br />Written during the nineteen fifties, this book is, for the most part, a look at a culture of poverty. It is also a look at a culture that is in transition, shifting from rural to urban with its often resulting poverty and pathology.  Yet, it is also a culture into which, North American material comforts and influence were making inroads. That then nascent influence is often reflected in even the poorest of the families laid bare here.<br /><br />The author basically gives the reader a typical day in the lives of each of these families.  It is an intimate, objective look that creates a fascinating family portrait. It is a totally engrossing work of not only anthropological import but of historical value, as well. The author has managed to freeze in time a segment of Mexican life during the nineteen fifties. Who would have thought that reading about people shopping, preparing meals, eating, and talking about their relationships would prove to be so fascinating?<br /><br />Those who are interested in other cultures, as well as the way people live their lives, will really enjoy this book. The author provides a fascinating, freeze-frame  glimpse into the lives of others. I simply love this book. Bravo!ze-frame  glimpse into the lives of others. I simply love this book. Bravo!	2005-01-23
376553:US	49355567	R6ZEYY6TRQRGN	3453210883	406438313	Chang und Eng. Die siamesischen Zwillinge.	Books	4	0	0	N	N	JUST WE TWO...	This is the German text edition of an ambitious and intriguing debut novel, \\"Chang and Eng\\", which is based upon conjoined twins, Chang and Eng, who were born in Siam during the nineteenth century.  It is through them that the term \\"Siamese Twins\\" entered the vernacular. Here, the author takes known facts about these famous twins and weaves an expertly woven story about their lives, while  attempting to individualize them, giving each of them their own distinct and unique personality.<br /><br />The author tells the story of the conjoined twins through the first person narration of Eng. Born in 1811 in a house boat on the Mekong River in Siam, which is now known as Thailand, Chang and Eng entered the world linked together at the chest by a fleshy band of cartilage. It would be this short band of flesh that would forever bind them together, ensuring that they would never have a truly private moment. For their entire lives, they would be bound to each other, and the two would be forced to live as one.<br /><br />The author explores their private and often strange lives, which the reader views through Eng's eyes. It is through his intimate thoughts that the reader envisions how the twins may have possibly viewed their own lives. The reader follows the path that their lives took, from their poverty stricken childhood on the Mekong River to their presentation to the King of Siam. It then shows how, as adolescents, they came to arrive in America, where they were displayed as oddities. Eventually, they  became an international sensation, becoming nineteenth century celebrities.<br /><br />Amazingly, they went on to marry two sisters, Adelaide and Sarah, with whom they fathered a total of twenty-one children. Chang and Eng set up house in North Carolina, where they raised their family. Still, this book is not so much about the factual portion of their lives, but rather, about  the thoughts of Eng, as he and Chang pass through life together. It is a very  intimate, insightful look at their lives and, in particular, the longings of Eng to experience life as most do, as one and not as two.<br /><br />This is a well-written and delicately nuanced work of historical fiction that is highly imaginative.  Instead of having the reader remain on the outside of the lives of Chang and Eng, looking in, the author manages to take the reader into their lives, having the reader look out onto the world from the perspective of Eng. Through Eng, the reader sees the twins as having two very distinct and unique personalities and realizes the angst that they must have experienced in never being able to have a truly private moment. At times, Chang and Eng appear to have had a love-hate relationship. This is a poignant and haunting look at these two individuals, who were, by necessity, constrained to live as one.<br /><br />For those who are intrigued by the lives of Chang and Eng, but would prefer a purely biographical treatment, \\"The Two\\" by Irving Wallace and Amy Wallace is excellent and highly recommended.l look at their lives and, in particular, the longings of Eng to experience life as most do, as one and not as two.<br /><br />This is a well-written and delicately nuanced work of historical fiction that is highly imaginative.  Instead of having the reader remain on the outside of the lives of Chang and Eng, looking in, the author manages to take the reader into their lives, having the reader look out onto the world from the perspective of Eng. Through Eng, the reader sees the twins as having two very distinct and unique personalities and realizes the angst that they must have experienced in never being able to have a truly private moment. At times, Chang and Eng appear to have had a love-hate relationship. This is a poignant and haunting look at these two individuals, who were, by necessity, constrained to live as one.<br /><br />For those who are intrigued by the lives of Chang and Eng, but would prefer a purely biographical treatment, \\"The Two\\" by Irving Wallace and Amy Wallace is excellent and highly recommended.	2005-01-23
376674:US	49355567	R207PRIQMG7AZE	0671784579	170429737	Ordeal by Hunger	Books	4	0	0	N	N	AN AMERICAN SURVIVAL STORY...	This book presents an account of the Donner Party, a wagon train of about eighty-seven people who in July 1846 started off for California via a new, untried route through the Sierras. Unfortunately, this particular wagon train of pioneers would go down in history due to the horror and tragedy that it was to meet along its way. Stranded in the Sierras amidst its harshest winter in years, with unparalleled snowfall and frigid temperatures, only little more than half, mostly women and children, were to survive their unbelievable deprivation and suffering.<br /><br />This wagon train was a loose confederation of strangers who originally were part of another wagon train, but who collectively branched off by consensus to try a new, though untried and unproven, overland route through the Sierras that was alleged to be shorter. Their decision to take this new route was one that would haunt them for the rest of their journey, as it was not what it was purported to be. The inexperience of these travelers, the poor decisions that were sometimes made, and their seeming inability to truly unify as one entity contributed to their ultimate debacle. They were, after all, representative of humanity at large. Some of them were good, brave, and unselfish. Some were people with whom one would not wish to shake hands.<br /><br />Beleaguered by thirst as they trekked across a desert, marauded by Indians along the way, plagued by the loss of necessary oxen and cattle, beset by accidents and personal squabbles that would sometimes turn deadly, they would finally reach the Sierras and begin their perilous crossing, only to find themselves snowbound at the summit while within sight of the pass that they needed to cross to be home free. Trapped by the weather in early November, they would set up a make-shift camp, never thinking about just how long their encampment would last. With minimal food supplies at their disposal, these intrepid, westward-ho emigrants would find themselves trapped for months, facing incredible hardships that would tax them beyond human endurance. Some would resort to cannibalism in order to survive.<br /><br />This is a riveting story about survival of the fittest, about personal sacrifice, and human foibles. It is a story not only of those ill-fated pioneers but of those who would attempt to rescue them, often at great personal cost. It is a story that reflects the human spirit, both good and bad, in time of crisis. It is a story of often selfless heroism. It is also a story of greed and craven opportunism. While some of the book is politically incorrect, it is reflective of the times in which these pioneers lived, as well as that of when this book was first written.<br /><br />It is, however, remiss that the maps included in this book do little to illustrate the deadly journey undertaken by these pioneers. Still, the lack of comprehensive maps does not unduly detract from the powerful impact that this story has on the reader. Moreover, although this classic book on the Donner party was published in 1936, the author, a historian, added a supplement in 1960, which is included in this edition of his book. This supplement serves to correct errors, as well as incorporate additional relevant material not available at the time of original publication.<br /><br />Those who enjoy tales of survival will, undoubtedly, find this gripping tale well worth reading.months, facing incredible hardships that would tax them beyond human endurance. Some would resort to cannibalism in order to survive.<br /><br />This is a riveting story about survival of the fittest, about personal sacrifice, and human foibles. It is a story not only of those ill-fated pioneers but of those who would attempt to rescue them, often at great personal cost. It is a story that reflects the human spirit, both good and bad, in time of crisis. It is a story of often selfless heroism. It is also a story of greed and craven opportunism. While some of the book is politically incorrect, it is reflective of the times in which these pioneers lived, as well as that of when this book was first written.<br /><br />It is, however, remiss that the maps included in this book do little to illustrate the deadly journey undertaken by these pioneers. Still, the lack of comprehensive maps does not unduly detract from the powerful impact that this story has on the reader. Moreover, although this classic book on the Donner party was published in 1936, the author, a historian, added a supplement in 1960, which is included in this edition of his book. This supplement serves to correct errors, as well as incorporate additional relevant material not available at the time of original publication.<br /><br />Those who enjoy tales of survival will, undoubtedly, find this gripping tale well worth reading.	2005-01-23
376692:US	49355567	RXZA9VZGOLFV9	B0006ICF1S	716283807	The Sweetest Thing	Books	3	0	0	N	N	GIRLS JUST WANNA HAVE FUN...	When my twenty year old daughter came home from college, she went to the video store and came home with this film, a comedy with a fairly good cast. Neither I nor my daughter knew nothing much about this movie. Well, were we in for a big surprise! The humor throughout was truly raunchy, ribald, and raw.  It was also, at times, quite funny. If you are a fan of the Farrelly Brothers movies or enjoy crude comedies, then you may enjoy this. Instead of the guys being gross, however, it's the gals.<br /><br />This movie revolves around three gal pals, Christina (Cameron Diaz), Courtney (Christine Applegate), and Jane (Selma Blair) and their close encounters with the male kind. The guys, however, definitely take a back seat to these three twenty something misses. I confess, it was a bit startling, though funny, to see these gals break into a song fit for a drunken stag party.  Some of the scenes were done tongue and cheek. Check out the Dick and Jane scene. You will know the scene I mean, when you see it.<br /><br />This film is not for those with delicate sensibilities, as erect male sex organs, anal sex, oral copulation, and other usually taboo subjects are ripe for gags, many of which, while filthy, are often funny. If you do not like your jokes down and dirty, then this is not the film for you. If you are broader minded, then you may enjoy Nancy Pimental's screenplay and the silly cavorting of the delightful Cameron Diaz, Christina Applegate, and Selma Blair, once you get over your initial shock.	2005-01-23
377269:US	49355567	RIFNOR9GBSUDQ	8420442364	816633669	La joven de la perla (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A SPELLBINDING WORK OF HISTORICAL FICTION...	In this Spanish text edition, this gifted author weaves a mesmerizing tale around Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer's most famous painting, creating an incandescent and luminous work of her own. His painting is a simple, though enigmatic, portrait of a girl with a pearl earring, about which little is known. The author, however, a born storyteller, creates a living, breathing story around it, using a singular, first person narrative. Told in spare, elegant prose, the author leaps into literary renown with this book.<br /><br />The events in the book are viewed through the eyes of Griet, a sixteen year old Dutch girl, whose changed family circumstances force her into taking a position as a maid in the home of a renowned painter, the taciturn Johannes Vermeer. There, the painter resides with his tempestuous wife, Catharina, their brood of unruly children, his commanding and shrewd mother-in-law, Maria Thins, and their loyal housekeeper and cook, Tanneke. The author lovingly details seventeenth century life in the Dutch city of Delft. It is here that Griet's story unfolds.<br /><br />Sensitive and perceptive, Griet is attuned to the under currents in the Vermeer household and, at first, takes care not to draw attention to herself. Still, she, the daughter of a tile painter, is curious about Vermeer's artistry and is drawn to his work and his methods. Vermeer, sensing a kindred artistic spirit in Griet, draws her into his world of paint, color, light, and beauty, creating an intimacy of the spirit between the two.<br /><br />Still, Griet, a girl on the brink of becoming a woman, finds herself confused and breathlessly desiring more than she may have. Her longing for more than a communion of the spirit with Vermeer is palpable. It is, therefore, not surprising that the undercurrents in the Vermeer household should come bubbling to the surface and engulf Griet, much to her consternation.<br /><br />This is a stunning literary work that fully realizes the promise that the author showed in her debut novel, \\"The Virgin Blue\\". She is an author that understands the less is often more, and she makes every word count. Deliberate and spare, her prose is lyrical in its simplicity, weaving a tale that will keep the reader spellbound. This is historical fiction at its finest. Bravo!r showed in her debut novel, \\"The Virgin Blue\\". She is an author that understands the less is often more, and she makes every word count. Deliberate and spare, her prose is lyrical in its simplicity, weaving a tale that will keep the reader spellbound. This is historical fiction at its finest. Bravo!	2005-01-23
378825:US	49355567	R1L24DQ5GX2PQC	B0006DG66I	631021605	My Theodosia ; Dragonwyck ; Foxfire	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A TRILOGY OF HISTORICAL FICTION...	MY THEODOSIA ****<br /><br />Having read this well-written book many years ago and having thoroughly enjoyed it, I decided it was time to pay an old friend another visit and re-read it. Time has certainly not diminished the capacity of this book to entertain the reader.<br /><br />The talented author deftly weaves the gossamer threads of history with fiction, creating a tapestry that tells the reader of the tragic life of Theodosia, beloved  daughter and only child of the notorious Aaron Burr. Written by a master storyteller, it is an enjoyable and poignant portrait of Theodosia. While her life was tragic in many respects, the book tells a compelling story of a young woman whose name would forever remain in the annals of history.<br />_________________________________________________________________<br /><br />DRAGONWYCK *****<br /><br />This is a beautifully written work of historical fiction, set in 1840s New York. It focuses on a young  Connecticut woman, Miranda Wells,  who sees a change in her station in life through a chance invitation by a wealthy distant cousin.  Handsome, gallant, and a renaissance man in terms of his interests, Nicholas Van Ryn invites his young cousin to visit and stay at his lavish home in upstate Hudson,  New York and act as a companion for his young daughter.<br /><br />When she meets him for the first time, Miranda is smitten, as Nicholas is the embodiment of all her romantic yearnings. Moreover, her stay at his luxurious, palatial  home on the Hudson River, a mansion with the fanciful name of Dragonwyck, is an answer to her prayers and a chance to escape the hard work and tedium that has been her lot on her family's Connecticut farm. Dragonwyck, however, has its share of secrets and a miasma of evil that lurks in its halls and grand rooms.<br /><br />The only thorn in Miranda's side is her cousin's wife, Johanna, who does not care for having a younger, more attractive woman, bustling about the house and preening before her husband. Johanna finds ways to make her feelings understood by Miranda, but Miranda, reckless in her admiration for her cousin Nicholas and relatively naive, is somewhat obtuse. Moreover, there is a pre-existing undercurrent of tension  between husband and wife in the Dragonwyck household of which Miranda is seemingly oblivious.<br /><br />Miranda's presence exacerbates the tension in the household that, ultimately,  ends in tragedy for all concerned. It is that tragedy that will, for Miranda, mark the beginning of a  life journey that will provide some painful and unsettling lessons. It is a journey that will ensure a measure of painful self-discovery and remove the rose colored glasses through which she had viewed her world.<br /><br />The book is well researched and redolent with information about the Dutch influence in New York and its aristocracy. It details many of the issues and traditions that were germane to the period and is richly descriptive of a way of life in New York, both downstate and upstate, that has since gone by the wayside. It intertwines a number of historical events and personages with the lives of those characters who are at the heart of this wonderful and vastly entertaining book. It is a book that will keep the reader turning the pages until the very last.<br />_________________________________________________________________<br /><br />FOXFIRE ***<br /><br />Written by master storyteller Anya Seton, this book tells the story of Amanda Lawrence, a young, well educated woman, whose family lost their fortune in the stock market crash of 1929. Pursued by the wealthy and cosmopolitan Tim Merrill, a member of the smart set of young people with whom she associates, she throws him over, to his and everyone's surprise, for Jonathan Dartland. Known as \\"Dart\\", he is a young mining engineer who straddles two worlds, that of his half-breed Apache mother, and that of his Harvard educated father, scion of a prominent New England family.<br /><br />Dart and Amandamarry and move to a rough, depression era mining town called Lodestone. There, she meets a motley cast of characters and discovers what roughing it really means. Both she and Dart have issues that they must overcome or with which they must come to grips before either can find happiness in their marriage. The hardships of living in poverty in a depression era mining town take their toll on the relationship. Moreover, hidden jealousies at the mine impact on Dart's career.<br /><br />These two lovers then find themselves torn apart by feelings about which neither of them speak. Together, they join with the mine's doctor, the bitter and always drunk Doctor Slater, and go off on an expedition to find a hidden mine. These intrepid explorers seek gold in hopes of attaining their individual dreams. Instead, they are be brought to the brink of death and despair. Yet, Amanda and Dart would find something that they thought had been beyond their grasp.<br /><br />This novel is not one of Ms. Seton's better efforts. Though some of it is interesting, in terms of depression era life in a mining town, this book did not age particularly well, having a faint anachronistic feel to it. Still, fans of Ms. Seton may find a modicum of enjoyment in reading it.marry and move to a rough, depression era mining town called Lodestone. There, she meets a motley cast of characters and discovers what roughing it really means. Both she and Dart have issues that they must overcome or with which they must come to grips before either can find happiness in their marriage. The hardships of living in poverty in a depression era mining town take their toll on the relationship. Moreover, hidden jealousies at the mine impact on Dart's career.<br /><br />These two lovers then find themselves torn apart by feelings about which neither of them speak. Together, they join with the mine's doctor, the bitter and always drunk Doctor Slater, and go off on an expedition to find a hidden mine. These intrepid explorers seek gold in hopes of attaining their individual dreams. Instead, they are be brought to the brink of death and despair. Yet, Amanda and Dart would find something that they thought had been beyond their grasp.<br /><br />This novel is not one of Ms. Seton's better efforts. Though some of it is interesting, in terms of depression era life in a mining town, this book did not age particularly well, having a faint anachronistic feel to it. Still, fans of Ms. Seton may find a modicum of enjoyment in reading it.	2005-01-21
380025:US	49355567	R2G2B2LF52BGGL	8420443247	441703875	La Mancha Humana (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	HE'S COME UNDONE...	This is the Spanish text edition of the book, \\"The Human Stain\\". Overall, I liked this book, despite the author's oftentimes wordy and dense prose. It was an interesting look at one man's history, a proud man who was brought to heel and hoisted by his own petard in a most ironic way. It seems that the main protagonist in his book, Coleman Silk, an esteemed classics college professor, who almost single-handedly put small, liberal arts Athena college on the academic map, finds himself brought up on charges by the college for using a word that has dual meanings, one of which is racially offensive to blacks, in connection with two students. Coleman has never seen the students at the heart of the brouhaha, as they missed all their classes. Consequently, he has no idea what their racial makeup is when he uses the word that is to cause so much offense.<br /><br />Coleman is rightly outraged by his colleagues reaction towards him in connection with this incident and, in particular, by one colleague's virulent attempt to castigate him and paint him as the devil incarnate. Coleman then cuts off his nose to spite his face and resigns from the college, holding the college responsible for the death of his wife, when she dies shortly after learning of his disgrace. What the college does not know, and what makes the accusation so ironic, is that Coleman Silk is an African-American who has been passing for white. Therein lies the rub, as Coleman and his life slowly unravel.<br /><br />Coleman, now in his early seventies, is fighting mad about the way his once promising and respected life seems to be ending. He is not helping matters any, however, when he takes up with Faunia Farley, an under-educated, emotionally troubled janitor at the college who is half is age and has a great deal of personal baggage from her own turbulent past, including an abusive, Vietnam vet ex-husband who stalks her. Coleman is like a man possessed and seems to go into an emotional tailspin, seeking to right what went wrong. To that end he reaches out to writer Nathan Zuckerman, whom he befriends, and asks him to write his story, as he himself is unable to write it. Of course, Coleman is unable to write it, because he cannot do so without revealing the secret that he kept for fifty years from his wife, his children, his colleagues, and his friends.<br /><br />When tragedy strikes, Nathan Zuckerman is left to put the pieces together and discover what it was that made Coleman Silk the man that he was. This is a very compelling story. The most affecting parts of the book have to do with Coleman's early life, before he decided to pass. It is an indictment of race relations in America at the time of his decision, when someone perceived to be a black man was unable to be all that he could be. Coleman, a very bright and talented young man, seeking to be all that he could be without thinking about race, chose to pass. He was simply not interested in being a role model for those of his perceived race.<br /><br />There are parts of the novel, however, that do not ring true. His affair with the janitor is a little hard to believe. I suppose that the reason that Coleman and Faunia come together, other than the obvious sexual one, is because of the inherent, personal pathology that each one brings to the relationship. Of course, the relationship makes Coleman feel young again. Still, it is more distracting than enlightening in terms of the issues contained within the pages of this book. I also found her ex-husband to be more of a caricature and distraction more than anything else, though he is necessary to the plot.<br /><br />Still, there is much to like about this novel, if one can overlook the somewhat self-indulgent prose that probably could have used better editing. The issues of racial identity are interesting and are the ones that provide much food for thought. It is in these issues that the strength of the book lies, even though the questions that they raise remain unanswered. This is a good book that could have been a great one.red. This is a good book that could have been a great one.	2005-01-20
380513:US	49355567	R1Y64SMIWGV3T7	1413226124	972472891	Stolen Lives: Twenty Years in a Desert Jail (Oprah Edition)	Books	2	8	11	N	N	GOOD STORY...BAD WRITING....BAD EDITING...	This is a book that on its face held a lot of promise. Any story in which a mother and her children, as well as faithful family retainers, are unjustly imprisoned in squalid conditions for twenty years for an ostensible crime comitted by the familial patriarch would certainly be of interest. Wrong! This is a tepid and disappointing book, poorly written and, most certainly, poorly edited. It is so filled with contraditions and inconsistencies, as to create somewhat of a credibility gap for the reader.<br /><br />The story revolves around the Oufkir family, who were, at one time, a prominent, highly respected, and well known Moroccan family. Their story is told by Malika Oufkir, who is the eldest daughter of the late General Oufkir, who was executed in August 1972, immediately following an aborted attempt to assassinate King Hassan II of Morocco, for whom he was the Minister of Defense. General's Oufkir's treasonous action was the catalyst for the tragic turn of events that were to engulf his family.<br /><br />After the aborted coup, the General's immediate family was placed under house arrest and four months later, along with two loyal family retainers who volunteered to share their fate, were whisked away to the first of several desert prisons that were to house them for the next fifteen years.<br /><br />As Malika tells it, hers was initially almost a fairy tale story. Brought up in luxurious surroundings, she suffered early heartbreak when, at the age of five, she was separated from her family and \\"adopted\\" by then King Muhammad V, so as to be a live in playmate for the King's daughter. This adoption is never really explained, and one has no idea what her parents' thoughts were on this issue. Malika lived in the Palace in the lap of luxury for many years. As a teenager, however, she moved back with her family, where, there too, she continued to live a very privileged life, steeped in luxury and money.<br /><br />After the Oufkirs' circumstances changed, theirs is truly a tragic story. There is little doubt that the conditions in their desert prisons were deplorable and squalid. With inadequate sanitation, insufficient food, no medical care, or educational provisions, the family was truly living a life of privation. Cutoff from the outside world, as they were, they truly were disenfranchised.<br /><br />Their escape from their last desert prison, an escape that brought their plight to the consciousness of the public, was amazing. But for their escape, there is no doubt in my mind that they would still be languishing in a desert prison today, barely alive, if not already dead. I salute their determination and ingenuity in making a deperate break for freedom.<br /><br />The problem lies in the telling of the story, which is so poorly told. Many things are left unexplained. No effort is made to ground the events that led to their family's downfall in a historical context. Whatever Malika said seems to have been what went into the final draft of this book, even if she contradicted herself a page or two later, which is the main problem with the book. There are so many inconsistencies with what Malika herself says, that the discerning reader is left to question much of what she represents.<br /><br />Malika comes across as a somewhat self-absorbed, vapid woman to whom fate dealt a harsh and unusually cruel hand. Her self-absorption is most evident in that she barely acknowledges the sacrifice of the two faithful family retainers, who voluntarily shared their fate, nor does she discuss the impact that this had on them. It is also a little disconcerting that more does not come through about the perceptions the other family members had about this hellish experience. Their insight might have provided a little more balance and interest to the narrative. In the hands of a good writer and and excellent editor, this book might have withstood scrutiny and met expectations.<br /><br />Sorry, Oprah, your book club selections are usually excellent. This one fails to make the grade.llent. This one fails to make the grade.	2005-01-20
380749:US	49355567	R26YKG57WGDAL5	8483101149	477173769	Un Hombre Con Encanto (Spanish Edition)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	NOT  SO CHARMING...	This is the Spanish text edition of the book, \\"Charming Billy\\". I am amazed that this book won the National Book Award in 1998. While the author's prose is lush and evocative of times gone by and captures the flavor of lower middle class life among a tightly knit group of Irish Americans in Queens, New York, it easily loses the reader's interest despite some of its complex themes and occasional poignancy. Quite frankly, it is a somewhat dull book with little to redeem it, as the title character is anything but charming. Billy is nothing more than a self-absorbed boozer who eventually drinks himself to death. The reader ends up not caring a whit for Billy.<br /><br />What is at the core of his problem? Only that when Billy was young, he fell in love with an Irish girl named Eva who returned to Ireland. He planned to marry her and sent her five hundred dollars to pay for her return trip back to the states. Instead, she stayed in Ireland, married someone else, and used Billy's money to better her personal circumstances. When Billy's cousin found out the truth, he made the momentous decision of telling Billy that Eva had died, so as to spare his feelings.<br /><br />His cousin's decision to tell this falsehood, turned out to be a life defining moment for Billy. He eventually entered into a loveless, sterile marriage, worked two jobs, and drank himself into a stupor just about every chance he got. After his premature death, everyone at the wake reminisces about Billy. These other characters, in general, lead dismal, insular lives, and none seem to have any redeeming grace about them. They are as pathetic as Billy in their own ways. They also reminisce about the Irish girl. This is dispositive of how empty a life Billy led that a summer romance of his from some thirty years prior would be rehashed ad nauseum. Quite frankly, there is not all that much to say about this sad sack of a man. What is said is often repetitious and trite. To compound the problem, the book shifts timelines so often that, at times, it is a bit confusing and has a somewhat jarring effect. While this book has its moments, there are not enough of them to make it memorable. The book is simply done in by its own torpor and repellent characters.timelines so often that, at times, it is a bit confusing and has a somewhat jarring effect. While this book has its moments, there are not enough of them to make it memorable. The book is simply done in by its own torpor and repellent characters.	2005-01-20
380887:US	49355567	RAVQHZKTJ9QPP	2266111078	504484757	UN Seul Amour (French Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	EVOCATIVE AND PROVOCATIVE...	This is the French text edition of the book, \\"Fortune's Rocks\\", a well-crafted and lyrically written narrative, evocative of an era gone by. It tells the story of Olympia Biddeford, the unusually erudite and well-educated fifteen year old daughter of a Boston Brahmin. One hot and steamy summer in turn of the century New Hampshire, she falls passionately and utterly in love with her father's friend, forty one year old John Haskell, a physician and man of letters, who has a wife and four children. She, captivated by his intelligence and his crusade on behalf of exploited mill workers, and he, drawn to her youth, intelligence and beauty, leave all thought of propriety behind. Breaking every moral and social taboo of the time, they enter into a forbidden, illicit love affair, which is ultimately doomed, with cataclysmic ramifications for all whom the affair touches.<br /><br />The book explores how this young woman copes with the loss of her life in a larger social milieu, once the affair enters into the public domain through the machinations of another. She and the doctor, as well as their respective families, are tainted with scandal and presented with the fruit of that illicit love. The book explores how Olympia must reconstruct the tatters of her life into one in which she is finally able to expiate her youthful indiscretion within the context of the mores of the time. In doing so, she goes on a voyage of self-discovery. Yet, through it all, she never once renounces her devotion to the man who introduced her to the throes of a passion so deep and profound that she gave herself over to it, body and soul. How these star-crossed lovers finally come to terms with their grand passion is a story that the author seamlessly weaves into a book that will keep the reader riveted to its pages. Bravo!	2005-01-20
381441:US	49355567	R3F4SJ2PH5IEWK	0749314508	399926886	Alive!: The Story of the Andes Survivors (A Mandarin paperback)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	I GET BY WITH A LITTLE HELP FROM MY FRIENDS...	Time has not diminished the drama of the tale of the Uruguayan rugby team whose plane crashed in the Andes Mountains. Of the forty five people on the plane at the time of the crash, sixteen came down from the mountain about seventy days later with a saga of survival not easily forgotten.<br /><br />Theirs is a journey born of tragedy and human endurance. The author unfolds a tale that is gripping in the telling, as enthralling as it is almost unbelievable. It is investigative reporting at its best, because it does not fail to convey the human drama and pathos behind the story of this remarkable struggle for survival high up in the Andes Mountains. Masterfully written, it is a well balanced narrative that takes great pains to ground the experience of the survivors in the context out of which it arose.<br /><br />The plane had crashed in the Andes Mountains on Argentinian territory. It was an exercise in terror for those on the plane, as it barreled down the mountain, before finally coming to rest in a valley of snow high up in the Andes. Of the forty five persons on board, thirty two had initially survived the crash. Some, however, had sustained serious injuries. Time would not be their friend. Moreover, with little warm clothing (keep in mind that October is springtime in South America), the survivors were exposed to the extreme cold of the night air, high up in the Andes. Though spring, this still meant temperatures well below freezing. Damp, cold, and hungry, amid the anguished cries of the injured, thus began the first of many such nights.<br /><br />By their tenth day in the Andes, the limited food supplies, which they had rationed with all the care of a miser, had virtually run out. Starving and ravenously hungry, they voiced what they all knew to be true, but had not dared to voice before. They must eat, or they would die. The only thing left for them to eat, however, was abhorrent and deeply repugnant to them. Digging deep into their conservative, religious souls, they found a way to justify actions that would have them transcend a new reality. Their fallen comrades would now provide the means of their sustenance. All eventually succumbed to this only means of survival.<br /><br />This, while one of the most dramatic parts of their story, is just that, a part. Their survival entailed much more. They had to endure other deprivations. They had to survive the elements. They had to overcome a profound despair over being seemingly forgotten by the outside world. Ultimately, only sixteen were able to do so. How they did so will fascinate all readers of adventure literature. The means that they took to let the world know that they were still alive will astound even the most jaded of readers. It is an account of human endurance that is thought provoking and compelling, a quest to reconcile physical needs with the spiritual. It is, above all, a riveting testament to life.ouls, they found a way to justify actions that would have them transcend a new reality. Their fallen comrades would now provide the means of their sustenance. All eventually succumbed to this only means of survival.<br /><br />This, while one of the most dramatic parts of their story, is just that, a part. Their survival entailed much more. They had to endure other deprivations. They had to survive the elements. They had to overcome a profound despair over being seemingly forgotten by the outside world. Ultimately, only sixteen were able to do so. How they did so will fascinate all readers of adventure literature. The means that they took to let the world know that they were still alive will astound even the most jaded of readers. It is an account of human endurance that is thought provoking and compelling, a quest to reconcile physical needs with the spiritual. It is, above all, a riveting testament to life.	2005-01-19
381817:US	49355567	R3UDPALG3OZBQO	0671832069	170429737	Ordeal by Hunger	Books	4	0	0	N	N	AN AMERICAN SURVIVAL STORY...	This book presents an account of the Donner Party, a wagon train of about eighty-seven people who in July 1846 started off for California via a new, untried route through the Sierras. Unfortunately, this particular wagon train of pioneers would go down in history due to the horror and tragedy that it was to meet along its way. Stranded in the Sierras amidst its harshest winter in years, with unparalleled snowfall and frigid temperatures, only little more than half, mostly women and children, were to survive their unbelievable deprivation and suffering.<br /><br />This wagon train was a loose confederation of strangers who originally were part of another wagon train, but who collectively branched off by consensus to try a new, though untried and unproven, overland route through the Sierras that was alleged to be shorter. Their decision to take this new route was one that would haunt them for the rest of their journey, as it was not what it was purported to be. The inexperience of these travelers, the poor decisions that were sometimes made, and their seeming inability to truly unify as one entity contributed to their ultimate debacle. They were, after all, representative of humanity at large. Some of them were good, brave, and unselfish. Some were people with whom one would not wish to shake hands.<br /><br />Beleaguered by thirst as they trekked across a desert, marauded by Indians along the way, plagued by the loss of necessary oxen and cattle, beset by accidents and personal squabbles that would sometimes turn deadly, they would finally reach the Sierras and begin their perilous crossing, only to find themselves snowbound at the summit while within sight of the pass that they needed to cross to be home free. Trapped by the weather in early November, they would set up a make-shift camp, never thinking about just how long their encampment would last. With minimal food supplies at their disposal, these intrepid, westward-ho emigrants would find themselves trapped for months, facing incredible hardships that would tax them beyond human endurance. Some would resort to cannibalism in order to survive.<br /><br />This is a riveting story about survival of the fittest, about personal sacrifice, and human foibles. It is a story not only of those ill-fated pioneers but of those who would attempt to rescue them, often at great personal cost. It is a story that reflects the human spirit, both good and bad, in time of crisis. It is a story of often selfless heroism. It is also a story of greed and craven opportunism. While some of the book is politically incorrect, it is reflective of the times in which these pioneers lived, as well as that of when this book was first written.<br /><br />It is, however, remiss that the maps included in this book do little to illustrate the deadly journey undertaken by these pioneers. Still, the lack of comprehensive maps does not unduly detract from the powerful impact that this story has on the reader. Moreover, although the book was published in 1936, the author, a trained historian, added a supplement in 1960, which is included in this edition of his book. This supplement serves to correct errors, as well as incorporate additional relevant material not available at the time of original publication.<br /><br />Those who enjoy tales of survival will, undoubtedly, find this gripping tale well worth reading.months, facing incredible hardships that would tax them beyond human endurance. Some would resort to cannibalism in order to survive.<br /><br />This is a riveting story about survival of the fittest, about personal sacrifice, and human foibles. It is a story not only of those ill-fated pioneers but of those who would attempt to rescue them, often at great personal cost. It is a story that reflects the human spirit, both good and bad, in time of crisis. It is a story of often selfless heroism. It is also a story of greed and craven opportunism. While some of the book is politically incorrect, it is reflective of the times in which these pioneers lived, as well as that of when this book was first written.<br /><br />It is, however, remiss that the maps included in this book do little to illustrate the deadly journey undertaken by these pioneers. Still, the lack of comprehensive maps does not unduly detract from the powerful impact that this story has on the reader. Moreover, although the book was published in 1936, the author, a trained historian, added a supplement in 1960, which is included in this edition of his book. This supplement serves to correct errors, as well as incorporate additional relevant material not available at the time of original publication.<br /><br />Those who enjoy tales of survival will, undoubtedly, find this gripping tale well worth reading.	2005-01-19
382204:US	49355567	R16HUR7VHWL2D9	2080680404	37255706	Noces indiennes	Books	5	6	6	N	N	WHEN EAST MEETS WEST...	This is the French text edition of an exquisitely written and superlative, multi-generational novel, \\"Of Marriageable Age\\", which is delicately woven with gossamer threads of human experience. It is a story of human frailties, passions, and cultural traditions. It is a spellbinding tale of several people who become unforgettable to the reader. It is an epic saga of individuals who are connected across time in a way none of them could have foreseen. A wellspring of cultural differences bear upon their futures and send them along paths none of them could have envisioned. It is, above all, a story of forbidden love that would impact on others for generations to come.<br /><br />This is the story of Savitri, a native of India, a Brahmin beauty, a healer, who fell in love with David, the son of the wealthy English family for whom she and her parents worked. Her love for David would remain constant, despite those in her own family who would seek to destroy it.<br /><br />This is the story of David, the English boy who grew up in British colonial India and never forgot his childhood sweetheart, despite the cultural and racial roadblocks placed in his path by those who did not have the gift to look into the soul of another.<br /><br />This is the story of Nat, the boy who straddled two cultures, Indian and English, whose mysterious ancestry threatened to prevent him from being united with the woman who held the key to his heart and soul.<br /><br />This is the story of Saroj, a Guyanese beauty of Indian descent, who wanted to leave the old ways, the ways of mysterious south east Asia, the ways of India, and embrace those of the west, only to find that her soul mate was one in whom both cultures had made peace.<br /><br />This is, above all else, a spellbinding story of love and passion that runs so deep that time would sustain it forever. Underlying this story are the threads of a mystery that are subtly woven into its fabric. This novel is a panoramic and sweeping saga that will cause the reader to be swept away by its depth, its richness of language, and its vividly drawn characters, and descriptive detail. The author, a very gifted writer and talented storyteller, has written a novel that will keep the reader riveted to its pages until the very last.t will cause the reader to be swept away by its depth, its richness of language, and its vividly drawn characters, and descriptive detail. The author, a very gifted writer and talented storyteller, has written a novel that will keep the reader riveted to its pages until the very last.	2005-01-19
382879:US	49355567	R1CUO9G7P1SVNP	3764500786	236236705	Der Zaubergarten.	Books	5	0	0	N	N	WHEN EAST MEETS WEST...	This is the German text edition of an exquisitely written and superlative, multi-generational novel, \\"Of Marriageable Age\\", which is delicately woven with gossamer threads of human experience. It is a story of human frailties, passions, and cultural traditions. It is a spellbinding tale of several people who become unforgettable to the reader. It is an epic saga of individuals who are connected across time in a way none of them could have foreseen. A wellspring of cultural differences bear upon their futures and send them along paths none of them could have envisioned. It is, above all, a story of forbidden love that would impact on others for generations to come.<br /><br />This is the story of Savitri, a native of India, a Brahmin beauty, a healer, who fell in love with David, the son of the wealthy English family for whom she and her parents worked. Her love for David would remain constant, despite those in her own family who would seek to destroy it.<br /><br />This is the story of David, the English boy who grew up in British colonial India and never forgot his childhood sweetheart, despite the cultural and racial roadblocks placed in his path by those who did not have the gift to look into the soul of another.<br /><br />This is the story of Nat, the boy who straddled two cultures, Indian and English, whose mysterious ancestry threatened to prevent him from being united with the woman who held the key to his heart and soul.<br /><br />This is the story of Saroj, a Guyanese beauty of Indian descent, who wanted to leave the old ways, the ways of mysterious south east Asia, the ways of India, and embrace those of the west, only to find that her soul mate was one in whom both cultures had made peace.<br /><br />This is, above all else, a spellbinding story of love and passion that runs so deep that time would sustain it forever. Underlying this story are the threads of a mystery that are subtly woven into its fabric. This novel is a panoramic and sweeping saga that will cause the reader to be swept away by its depth, its richness of language, and its vividly drawn characters, and descriptive detail. The author, a very gifted writer and talented storyteller, has written a novel that will keep the reader riveted to its pages until the very last.t will cause the reader to be swept away by its depth, its richness of language, and its vividly drawn characters, and descriptive detail. The author, a very gifted writer and talented storyteller, has written a novel that will keep the reader riveted to its pages until the very last.	2005-01-18
383075:US	49355567	R13B02M8XCUNZU	1551114917	584095688	My Ántonia (Broadview Literary Texts)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A TIMELESS CLASSIC...	I first read this book when I was in junior high school. I admit that, at the time, I did not appreciate the strengths of the book and the quality of its writing. I am quite glad that I decided to give it another chance, as I now understand why it is considered to be a classic in literature. It is simply a beautifully written book, covering many of the themes that one stumbles across in life and coalescing them into a work of extraordinary breadth.<br /><br />The book is the story of two young people, Jim Burden and Antonia Shimerda. They meet for the first time when Jim is ten years old and Antonia is fourteen. Recently orphaned, Jim has moved to the Great Prairie to live with his grandparents in Nebraska. Antonia, on the other hand, has been wrenched from her homeland in Bohemia, emigrating with her parents to the United States and finding herself in Nebraska. Jim and Antonia's chance encounter on a train sets the stage for the forging of a friendship and unconditional love that time will not diminish.<br /><br />The book relates the harshness of immigrant life through the eyes of Jim, who narrates the events contained in the book. There is a relentless stoicism about the book, which is written in spare, clear prose. With intense imagery and descriptive exactitude, late nineteenth century Nebraska comes to life. It also relates the paths that each of the characters choose to follow, as well as the vicissitudes of life that mold and shape them in  ways that no one would have imagined.<br /><br />The focus of the book, which is also a coming of age tale, seems to be on the female characters and their strengths. Consequently, the book has a faintly feminist undercurrent to it, as all the women in it seem to be survivors, despite the hardships that they encounter. This is, without a doubt, a life affirming book, wrought with great feeling and a decided sense of time and place. Yet, despite its poignancy, the book is surprisingly unsentimental and straightforward. It is a testament to the author's literary talent that this book has emerged as a timeless classic. Bravo!s a testament to the author's literary talent that this book has emerged as a timeless classic. Bravo!	2005-01-18
383172:US	49355567	R3UAK6ZGSY24NH	0786540168	639274532	The Girl with the Pearl Earring	Books	5	0	0	N	N	EXQUISITELY WRITTEN HISTORICAL FICTION...	This gifted author weaves a mesmerizing tale around Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer's most famous painting, creating an incandescent and luminous work of her own. His painting is a simple, though enigmatic, portrait of a girl with a pearl earring, about which little is known. The author, however, a born storyteller, creates a living, breathing story around it, using a singular, first person narrative. Told in spare, elegant prose, the author leaps into literary renown with this book.<br /><br />The events in the book are viewed through the eyes of Griet, a sixteen year old Dutch girl, whose changed family circumstances force her into taking a position as a maid in the home of a renowned painter, the taciturn Johannes Vermeer. There, the painter resides with his tempestuous wife, Catharina, their brood of unruly children, his commanding and shrewd mother-in-law, Maria Thins, and their loyal housekeeper and cook, Tanneke. The author lovingly details seventeenth century life in the Dutch city of Delft. It is here that Griet's story unfolds.<br /><br />Sensitive and perceptive, Griet is attuned to the under currents in the Vermeer household and, at first, takes care not to draw attention to herself. Still, she, the daughter of a tile painter, is curious about Vermeer's artistry and is drawn to his work and his methods. Vermeer, sensing a kindred artistic spirit in Griet, draws her into his world of paint, color, light, and beauty, creating an intimacy of the spirit between the two.<br /><br />Still, Griet, a girl on the brink of becoming a woman, finds herself confused and breathlessly desiring more than she may have. Her longing for more than a communion of the spirit with Vermeer is palpable. It is, therefore, not surprising that the undercurrents in the Vermeer household should come bubbling to the surface and engulf Griet, much to her consternation.<br /><br />This is a stunning literary work that fully realizes the promise that the author showed in her debut novel, \\"The Virgin Blue\\". She is an author that understands the less is often more, and she makes every word count. Deliberate and spare, her prose is lyrical in its simplicity, weaving a tale that will keep the reader spellbound. This is historical fiction at its finest. Bravo!The Virgin Blue\\". She is an author that understands the less is often more, and she makes every word count. Deliberate and spare, her prose is lyrical in its simplicity, weaving a tale that will keep the reader spellbound. This is historical fiction at its finest. Bravo!	2005-01-18
383320:US	49355567	R3QG6AONP7S8P1	2020419157	740795174	Chan et Eng : Le Double-garçon	Books	4	0	0	N	N	THE DOUBLE BOY...	This is the French text edition of \\"Chang and Eng\\", an ambitious and intriguing debut novel, which is based upon conjoined twins, Chang and Eng, who were born in Siam during the nineteenth century.  It is through them that the term \\"Siamese Twins\\" entered the vernacular. Here, the author takes known facts about these famous twins and weaves an expertly woven story about their lives, while  attempting to individualize them, giving each of them their own distinct and unique personality.<br /><br />The author tells the story of the conjoined twins through the first person narration of Eng. Born in 1811 in a house boat on the Mekong River in Siam, which is now known as Thailand, Chang and Eng entered the world linked together at the chest by a fleshy band of cartilage. It would be this short band of flesh that would forever bind them together, ensuring that they would never have a truly private moment. For their entire lives, they would be bound to each other, and the two would be forced to live as one.<br /><br />The author explores their private and often strange lives, which the reader views through Eng's eyes. It is through his intimate thoughts that the reader envisions how the twins may have possibly viewed their own lives. The reader follows the path that their lives took, from their poverty stricken childhood on the Mekong River to their presentation to the King of Siam. It then shows how, as adolescents, they came to arrive in America, where they were displayed as oddities. Eventually, they  became an international sensation, becoming nineteenth century celebrities.<br /><br />Amazingly, they went on to marry two sisters, Adelaide and Sarah, with whom they fathered a total of twenty-one children. Chang and Eng set up house in North Carolina, where they raised their family. Still, this book is not so much about the factual portion of their lives, but rather, about  the thoughts of Eng, as he and Chang pass through life together. It is a very  intimate, insightful look at their lives and, in particular, the longings of Eng to experience life as most do, as one and not as two.<br /><br />This is a well-written and delicately nuanced work of historical fiction that is highly imaginative.  Instead of having the reader remain on the outside of the lives of Chang and Eng, looking in, the author manages to take the reader into their lives, having the reader look out onto the world from the perspective of Eng. Through Eng, the reader sees the twins as having two very distinct and unique personalities and realizes the angst that they must have experienced in never being able to have a truly private moment. At times, Chang and Eng appear to have had a love-hate relationship. This is a poignant and haunting look at these two individuals, who were, by necessity, constrained to live as one.<br /><br />For those who are intrigued by the lives of Chang and Eng, but would prefer a purely biographical treatment, \\"The Two\\" by Irving Wallace and Amy Wallace is excellent and highly recommended.l look at their lives and, in particular, the longings of Eng to experience life as most do, as one and not as two.<br /><br />This is a well-written and delicately nuanced work of historical fiction that is highly imaginative.  Instead of having the reader remain on the outside of the lives of Chang and Eng, looking in, the author manages to take the reader into their lives, having the reader look out onto the world from the perspective of Eng. Through Eng, the reader sees the twins as having two very distinct and unique personalities and realizes the angst that they must have experienced in never being able to have a truly private moment. At times, Chang and Eng appear to have had a love-hate relationship. This is a poignant and haunting look at these two individuals, who were, by necessity, constrained to live as one.<br /><br />For those who are intrigued by the lives of Chang and Eng, but would prefer a purely biographical treatment, \\"The Two\\" by Irving Wallace and Amy Wallace is excellent and highly recommended.	2005-01-18
383521:US	49355567	R34M2NVNR04BPW	8420451398	58338023	Ángeles fugaces (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	DECEPTIONS AND PERCEPTIONS...	This is the Spanish text edition of the book, \\"Falling Angels\\",  which covers the period in the lives of two families that stretches from January 1901,  the end of the Victorian era, to May 1910,  the end of the Edwardian one. The lives of these two families, the Colemans and the Waterhouses, converge and become inextricably woven together when they inadvertently meet at a cemetery while paying their respects to deceased loved ones. Unbeknownst to them, their lives are moving inexorably towards a tragic denouement, one that is to have ramifications for both families.<br /><br />Two of the daughters of these respective families, Lavinia Waterhouse and Maude Coleman, find that they have formed the beginning of a  friendship during the brief interlude at the cemetery.  The two girls also befriend Simon Field, the son of one of the gravediggers at the cemetery.  The  friendship of the two girls is cemented when they later discover that they are to be neighbors, as through happenstance the Waterhouse family moves onto a property adjacent to that of the Colemans. Despite differences in social class and personal taste, as the Waterhouses are definitely sentimentally  bourgeois and the Colemans have pretensions to more refinement, the families are brought together, however unwillingly, through the friendship between Lavinia and Maude.<br /><br />The mothers of these two girls are unable to form a true friendship, as stolid  Gertrude Waterhouse and pretty Kitty Coleman are unable to find much common ground. Gertrude is bound in tradition, while Kitty, dissatisfied with her marriage and her life, is looking to escape tradition and expand the role allotted in society to women. Never the twain shall meet, as these women will never see eye-to-eye, despite the friendship between Lavinia and Maude.<br /><br />This is a well-plotted novel with each character adding his or her perspective to the events that unfold, many of which are of a secretive nature.  Even the husbands, Albert Waterhouse and Richard Coleman, have something to say that contributes to the development of the story, as does Richard Coleman's mother, Edith, as do the Coleman's maid, Jenny Whitby, and their cook, Dorothy Baker. Lavinia's younger sister, Ivy May, who plays a small but pivotal role,  also has her say, as does Kitty's admirer, John Jackson. There are also a number of twists and turns in the tale.<br /><br />The story is told in the clean, spare prose that fans of the author have come to expect.  It is told through first person narratives, and it is almost as if the narratives were taken from the personal diary or journal of each character. Therein lies the rub, as the author is unable to make the voice of each character truly distinguishable from that of the others. The book suffers somewhat from the failure of the author to develop a truly unique voice for each one.  This is, however, the only failing of this otherwise absorbing and intriguing story that is suffused with period detail. This is an otherwise excellent book that fans of the author will enjoy, as will those who love historical fiction.Waterhouse and Richard Coleman, have something to say that contributes to the development of the story, as does Richard Coleman's mother, Edith, as do the Coleman's maid, Jenny Whitby, and their cook, Dorothy Baker. Lavinia's younger sister, Ivy May, who plays a small but pivotal role,  also has her say, as does Kitty's admirer, John Jackson. There are also a number of twists and turns in the tale.<br /><br />The story is told in the clean, spare prose that fans of the author have come to expect.  It is told through first person narratives, and it is almost as if the narratives were taken from the personal diary or journal of each character. Therein lies the rub, as the author is unable to make the voice of each character truly distinguishable from that of the others. The book suffers somewhat from the failure of the author to develop a truly unique voice for each one.  This is, however, the only failing of this otherwise absorbing and intriguing story that is suffused with period detail. This is an otherwise excellent book that fans of the author will enjoy, as will those who love historical fiction.	2005-01-18
383611:US	49355567	RAIPRE6TERFAT	0722135025	524319009	Invasion of the Body Snatchers	Books	5	1	1	N	N	DOUBLE TROUBLE...	This is a wonderfully inventive story that has spawned three films. Well-written, the book tells the tale of a small town through the eyes of its young doctor, Miles Bennell. It seems the town is undergoing a drastic change which is as subtle as it is deadly. It seems that all the townspeople are not what they seem. They look the same. They sound the same. Their memories are intact. Still, they are just not the same.<br /><br />Those who have noticed this, suddenly end up retracting  their concerns days later. Something is  not right in the town of Mills Valley, and Dr, Bennell knows it. Those large seed pods that are suddenly showing up every where are at the root of it. Their unearthly presence is connected to the profound changes that the people of Mills Valley are undergoing, and Dr. Bennell will stop at nothing to save his beloved town and the world from the invasion of the body snatchers.<br /><br />This is a great story by a wonderfully inventive writer. Jack Finney is a masterful story teller. He expertly weaves a tale that will keep the reader riveted to the pages of this book. It is no wonder that three films based upon this book have been made, \\"The Invasion of the Body Snatchers\\" (1956), The Invasion of the Body Snatchers (1978), and Body Snatchers (1994). All three are worth watching.	2005-01-18
383786:US	49355567	R2C6VV4AL39ROS	0007172826	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring	Books	5	10	10	N	N	BEAUTIFULLY CRAFTED HISTORICAL FICTION...	This gifted author weaves a mesmerizing tale around Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer's most famous painting, creating an incandescent and luminous work of her own. His painting is a simple, though enigmatic, portrait of a girl with a pearl earring, about which little is known. The author, however, a born storyteller, creates a living, breathing story around it, using a singular, first person narrative. Told in spare, elegant prose, the author leaps into literary renown with this book.<br /><br />The events in the book are viewed through the eyes of Griet, a sixteen year old Dutch girl, whose changed family circumstances force her into taking a position as a maid in the home of a renowned painter, the taciturn Johannes Vermeer. There, the painter resides with his tempestuous wife, Catharina, their brood of unruly children, his commanding and shrewd mother-in-law, Maria Thins, and their loyal housekeeper and cook, Tanneke. The author lovingly details seventeenth century life in the Dutch city of Delft. It is here that Griet's story unfolds.<br /><br />Sensitive and perceptive, Griet is attuned to the under currents in the Vermeer household and, at first, takes care not to draw attention to herself. Still, she, the daughter of a tile painter, is curious about Vermeer's artistry and is drawn to his work and his methods. Vermeer, sensing a kindred artistic spirit in Griet, draws her into his world of paint, color, light, and beauty, creating an intimacy of the spirit between the two.<br /><br />Still, Griet, a girl on the brink of becoming a woman, finds herself confused and breathlessly desiring more than she may have. Her longing for more than a communion of the spirit with Vermeer is palpable. It is, therefore, not surprising that the undercurrents in the Vermeer household should come bubbling to the surface and engulf Griet, much to her consternation.<br /><br />This is a stunning literary work that fully realizes the promise that the author showed in her debut novel, \\"The Virgin Blue\\". She is an author that understands the less is often more, and she makes every word count. Deliberate and spare, her prose is lyrical in its simplicity, weaving a tale that will keep the reader spellbound. This is historical fiction at its finest. Bravo!The Virgin Blue\\". She is an author that understands the less is often more, and she makes every word count. Deliberate and spare, her prose is lyrical in its simplicity, weaving a tale that will keep the reader spellbound. This is historical fiction at its finest. Bravo!	2005-01-17
383967:US	49355567	R2LRXBFSSVEI87	0641565224	101423143	Falling Angels	Books	4	0	0	N	N	PERCEPTIONS AND DECEPTIONS...	This book covers the period in the lives of two families that stretches from January 1901,  the end of the Victorian era, to May 1910,  the end of the Edwardian one. The lives of these two families, the Colemans and the Waterhouses, converge and become inextricably woven together when they inadvertently meet at a cemetery while paying their respects to deceased loved ones. Unbeknownst to them, their lives are moving inexorably towards a tragic denouement, one that is to have ramifications for both families.<br /><br />Two of the daughters of these respective families, Lavinia Waterhouse and Maude Coleman, find that they have formed the beginning of a  friendship during the brief interlude at the cemetery.  The two girls also befriend Simon Field, the son of one of the gravediggers at the cemetery.  The  friendship of the two girls is cemented when they later discover that they are to be neighbors, as through happenstance the Waterhouse family moves onto a property adjacent to that of the Colemans. Despite differences in social class and personal taste, as the Waterhouses are definitely sentimentally  bourgeois and the Colemans have pretensions to more refinement, the families are brought together, however unwillingly, through the friendship between Lavinia and Maude.<br /><br />The mothers of these two girls are unable to form a true friendship, as stolid  Gertrude Waterhouse and pretty Kitty Coleman are unable to find much common ground. Gertrude is bound in tradition, while Kitty, dissatisfied with her marriage and her life, is looking to escape tradition and expand the role allotted in society to women. Never the twain shall meet, as these women will never see eye-to-eye, despite the friendship between Lavinia and Maude.<br /><br />This is a well-plotted novel with each character adding his or her perspective to the events that unfold, many of which are of a secretive nature.  Even the husbands, Albert Waterhouse and Richard Coleman, have something to say that contributes to the development of the story, as does Richard Coleman's mother, Edith, as do the Coleman's maid, Jenny Whitby, and their cook, Dorothy Baker. Lavinia's younger sister, Ivy May, who plays a small but pivotal role,  also has her say, as does Kitty's admirer, John Jackson. There are also a number of twists and turns in the tale.<br /><br />The story is told in the clean, spare prose that fans of the author have come to expect.  It is told through first person narratives, and it is almost as if the narratives were taken from the personal diary or journal of each character. Therein lies the rub, as the author is unable to make the voice of each character truly distinguishable from that of the others. The book suffers somewhat from the failure of the author to develop a truly unique voice for each one.  This is, however, the only failing of this otherwise absorbing and intriguing story that is suffused with period detail. This is an otherwise excellent book that fans of the author will enjoy, as will those who love historical fiction.ntributes to the development of the story, as does Richard Coleman's mother, Edith, as do the Coleman's maid, Jenny Whitby, and their cook, Dorothy Baker. Lavinia's younger sister, Ivy May, who plays a small but pivotal role,  also has her say, as does Kitty's admirer, John Jackson. There are also a number of twists and turns in the tale.<br /><br />The story is told in the clean, spare prose that fans of the author have come to expect.  It is told through first person narratives, and it is almost as if the narratives were taken from the personal diary or journal of each character. Therein lies the rub, as the author is unable to make the voice of each character truly distinguishable from that of the others. The book suffers somewhat from the failure of the author to develop a truly unique voice for each one.  This is, however, the only failing of this otherwise absorbing and intriguing story that is suffused with period detail. This is an otherwise excellent book that fans of the author will enjoy, as will those who love historical fiction.	2005-01-17
384014:US	49355567	R1G1IZUC2JC43	3442711088	491711609	Die Geister des Mount Everest	Books	4	0	0	N	N	DID THEY OR DIDN'T THEY...?	This is the German text edition of a book that will demand the reader's undivided attention. It will be be sure to enthrall all mystery lovers, Everest aficionados, nostalgia junkies, history buffs, and climbing enthusiasts and provide its reader with many hours of enjoyment.<br /><br />The book chronicles the search for George Mallory and Andrew Irvine by the 1999 Mallory & Irvine Research Expedition. It juxtaposes the dramatic turn of events during their expedition with those of the 1924 British Everest Expedition which saw Mallory and Irvine attempt a summit climb, only to disappear into the mists of Everest, never to be seen again. It makes for a spell binding narrative, as past events are woven through present day ones.<br /><br />The 1999 Mallory & Irvine Research Expedition was a meticulously well-prepared and well-organized venture. With its discovery of George Leigh Mallory's body, it enjoyed much success. The research and analysis that went into its ultimate, well thought out conclusions were comprehensive and fascinating, with its strong reliance upon forensics and deductive reasoning. Their reconstruction of Mallory's and Irvine's last climb is riveting. Unfortunately, the ultimate question still remains unanswered. Did they or did they not reach the summit of Mount Everest back in 1924?<br /><br />The beautiful photographs of the personal effects found upon Mallory's person underscore a certain poignancy about the discovery of Mallory's well preserved body. The photographs, which memorialize this discovery, are amazingly lovely and tasteful, considering its subject matter, and hauntingly illustrate the finality with which Everest may deal with mountaineers, no matter how accomplished.<br /><br />The photographs also highlight how ill equipped for the harsh climatic conditions were the early Everest expeditions. It is amazing, and a credit to those early expeditioners' courage and fortitude, in braving such an inhospitable and harsh terrain with the inadequate clothing and equipment available to them at the time. Mallory and Irvine were certainly intrepid explorers!<br /><br />This book is a fitting tribute to two men who sought to make a historic summit and, in their attempt, would forever be a part of Everest.equate clothing and equipment available to them at the time. Mallory and Irvine were certainly intrepid explorers!<br /><br />This book is a fitting tribute to two men who sought to make a historic summit and, in their attempt, would forever be a part of Everest.	2005-01-17
384271:US	49355567	RHI4JGP6O9XRL	0671772627	694477895	Ordeal by Hunger: The Classic Story of the Donner Party	Books	4	4	4	N	N	AMERICAN ANTHROPOPHAGY...	This book presents an account of the Donner Party, a wagon train of about eighty-seven people who in July 1846 started off for California via a new, untried route through the Sierras. Unfortunately, this particular wagon train of pioneers would go down in history due to the horror and tragedy that it was to meet along its way. Stranded in the Sierras amidst its harshest winter in years, with unparalleled snowfall and frigid temperatures, only little more than half, mostly women and children, were to survive their unbelievable deprivation and suffering.<br /><br />This wagon train was a loose confederation of strangers who originally were part of another wagon train, but who collectively branched off by consensus to try a new, though untried and unproven, overland route through the Sierras that was alleged to be shorter. Their decision to take this new route was one that would haunt them for the rest of their journey, as it was not what it was purported to be. The inexperience of these travelers, the poor decisions that were sometimes made, and their seeming inability to truly unify as one entity contributed to their ultimate debacle. They were, after all, representative of humanity at large. Some of them were good, brave, and unselfish. Some were people with whom one would not wish to shake hands.<br /><br />Beleaguered by thirst as they trekked across a desert, marauded by Indians along the way, plagued by the loss of necessary oxen and cattle, beset by accidents and personal squabbles that would sometimes turn deadly, they would finally reach the Sierras and begin their perilous crossing, only to find themselves snowbound at the summit while within sight of the pass that they needed to cross to be home free. Trapped by the weather in early November, they would set up a make-shift camp, never thinking about just how long their encampment would last. With minimal food supplies at their disposal, these intrepid, westward-ho emigrants would find themselves trapped for months, facing incredible hardships that would tax them beyond human endurance. Some would resort to cannibalism in order to survive.<br /><br />This is a riveting story about survival of the fittest, about personal sacrifice, and human foibles. It is a story not only of those ill-fated pioneers but of those who would attempt to rescue them, often at great personal cost. It is a story that reflects the human spirit, both good and bad, in time of crisis. It is a story of often selfless heroism. It is also a story of greed and craven opportunism. While some of the book is politically incorrect, it is reflective of the times in which these pioneers lived, as well as that of when this book was first written.<br /><br />It is, however, remiss that the maps included in this book do little to illustrate the deadly journey undertaken by these pioneers. Still, the lack of comprehensive maps does not unduly detract from the powerful impact that this story has on the reader. Moreover, although the book was published in 1936, the author, a trained historian, added a supplement in 1960, which is included in this edition of his book. This supplement serves to correct errors, as well as incorporate additional relevant material not available at the time of original publication.<br /><br />Those who enjoy tales of survival will, undoubtedly, find this gripping tale well worth reading.months, facing incredible hardships that would tax them beyond human endurance. Some would resort to cannibalism in order to survive.<br /><br />This is a riveting story about survival of the fittest, about personal sacrifice, and human foibles. It is a story not only of those ill-fated pioneers but of those who would attempt to rescue them, often at great personal cost. It is a story that reflects the human spirit, both good and bad, in time of crisis. It is a story of often selfless heroism. It is also a story of greed and craven opportunism. While some of the book is politically incorrect, it is reflective of the times in which these pioneers lived, as well as that of when this book was first written.<br /><br />It is, however, remiss that the maps included in this book do little to illustrate the deadly journey undertaken by these pioneers. Still, the lack of comprehensive maps does not unduly detract from the powerful impact that this story has on the reader. Moreover, although the book was published in 1936, the author, a trained historian, added a supplement in 1960, which is included in this edition of his book. This supplement serves to correct errors, as well as incorporate additional relevant material not available at the time of original publication.<br /><br />Those who enjoy tales of survival will, undoubtedly, find this gripping tale well worth reading.	2005-01-17
384348:US	49355567	R2B6ON4B3MD9BP	0965002969	293422350	Chang And Eng	Books	4	1	1	N	N	GETTING TO KNOW YOU...	This is an ambitious and intriguing debut novel, which is based upon conjoined twins, Chang and Eng, who were born in Siam during the nineteenth century.  It is through them that the term \\"Siamese Twins\\" entered the vernacular. Here, the author takes known facts about these famous twins and weaves an expertly woven story about their lives, while  attempting to individualize them, giving each of them their own distinct and unique personality.<br /><br />The author tells the story of the conjoined twins through the first person narration of Eng. Born in 1811 in a house boat on the Mekong River in Siam, which is now known as Thailand, Chang and Eng entered the world linked together at the chest by a fleshy band of cartilage. It would be this short band of flesh that would forever bind them together, ensuring that they would never have a truly private moment. For their entire lives, they would be bound to each other, and the two would be forced to live as one.<br /><br />The author explores their private and often strange lives, which the reader views through Eng's eyes. It is through his intimate thoughts that the reader envisions how the twins may have possibly viewed their own lives. The reader follows the path that their lives took, from their poverty stricken childhood on the Mekong River to their presentation to the King of Siam. It then shows how, as adolescents, they came to arrive in America, where they were displayed as oddities. Eventually, they  became an international sensation, becoming nineteenth century celebrities.<br /><br />Amazingly, they went on to marry two sisters, Adelaide and Sarah, with whom they fathered a total of twenty-one children. Chang and Eng set up house in North Carolina, where they raised their family. Still, this book is not so much about the factual portion of their lives, but rather, about  the thoughts of Eng, as he and Chang pass through life together. It is a very  intimate, insightful look at their lives and, in particular, the longings of Eng to experience life as most do, as one and not as two.<br /><br />This is a well-written and delicately nuanced work of historical fiction that is highly imaginative.  Instead of having the reader remain on the outside of the lives of Chang and Eng, looking in, the author manages to take the reader into their lives, having the reader look out onto the world from the perspective of Eng. Through Eng, the reader sees the twins as having two very distinct and unique personalities and realizes the angst that they must have experienced in never being able to have a truly private moment. At times, Chang and Eng appear to have had a love-hate relationship. This is a poignant and haunting look at these two individuals, who were, by necessity, constrained to live as one.<br /><br />For those who are intrigued by the lives of Chang and Eng, but would prefer a purely biographical treatment, \\"The Two\\" by Irving Wallace and Amy Wallace is excellent and highly recommended.e longings of Eng to experience life as most do, as one and not as two.<br /><br />This is a well-written and delicately nuanced work of historical fiction that is highly imaginative.  Instead of having the reader remain on the outside of the lives of Chang and Eng, looking in, the author manages to take the reader into their lives, having the reader look out onto the world from the perspective of Eng. Through Eng, the reader sees the twins as having two very distinct and unique personalities and realizes the angst that they must have experienced in never being able to have a truly private moment. At times, Chang and Eng appear to have had a love-hate relationship. This is a poignant and haunting look at these two individuals, who were, by necessity, constrained to live as one.<br /><br />For those who are intrigued by the lives of Chang and Eng, but would prefer a purely biographical treatment, \\"The Two\\" by Irving Wallace and Amy Wallace is excellent and highly recommended.	2005-01-17
384453:US	49355567	R3D5IJ71GY4DIO	2070418073	134105923	Je Suis Une Legende (Folio Science Fiction) (French Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	THE LAST MAN ON EARTH...	What would you do, if a mysterious plague swept throughout the world, literally killing everyone off, but leaving in its place something new, something frightening, something downright horrible, while leaving you alive, immune and seemingly alone? What would you do, if the undead now walked the earth looking for you, the last man alive...the last vestige of the human race? What if what they wanted was the taste of your blood on their lips? Just what on earth would you do?<br /><br />These are the questions that faced Robert Neville. It is he who is Legend. How he answers them is what makes this a book to remember and a classic within its genre. This is the french text edition of the author's novel, \\"I Am Legend\\", which became the basis for Charlton Heston's cult film, \\"The Omega Man\\". It is a book of profound hope and despair. It is a book that demands to be read. Read it. You will not be disappointed.	2005-01-17
384518:US	49355567	RH802HFU8C2ES	B0007FA3CS	878798437	Five families;: Mexican case studies in the culture of poverty. With a foreword by Oliver La Farge	Books	5	0	0	N	N	RIVETING REALITY...	I first read this book many years ago, along with some of the author's other works, and decided to take read it again. Time certainly has not diminished the power of the author,  winner of the 1967 National Book Award for his book, \\"La Vida\\",  to take the reader into the lives of others. This is an anthropological work that  reads as if it were a riveting novel, so fascinating is its subject matter.<br /><br />The author takes the reader into the lives of five different Mexican families for one entire day, so that the reader can see how it is that they live their lives. The families are both rural and urban and represent a cross-section of Mexico at the time that this book was written. All but one of the families portrayed are poor, yet they all share some similar characteristics.<br /><br />Written during the nineteen fifties, this book is, for the most part, a look at a culture of poverty. It is also a look at a culture that is in transition, shifting from rural to urban with its often resulting poverty and pathology.  Yet, it is also a culture into which, North American material comforts and influence were making inroads. That then nascent influence is often reflected in even the poorest of the families laid bare here.<br /><br />The author basically gives the reader a typical day in the lives of each of these families.  It is an intimate, objective look that creates a fascinating family portrait. It is a totally engrossing work of not only anthropological import but of historical value, as well. The author has managed to freeze in time a segment of Mexican life during the nineteen fifties. Who would have thought that reading about people shopping, preparing meals, and talking about their relationships would prove to be so fascinating?<br /><br />Those who are interested in other cultures, as well as the way people live their lives, will really enjoy this book. The author provides a fascinating, freeze-frame  glimpse into the lives of others. Moreover, the foreword by noted Pulitzer Prize winning author and anthropologist, Oscar La Farge, is positively  prescient. I simply love this book. Bravo!rd by noted Pulitzer Prize winning author and anthropologist, Oscar La Farge, is positively  prescient. I simply love this book. Bravo!	2005-01-17
384566:US	49355567	R2LJWQQXG33OQ9	0899684289	524319009	The Body Snatchers	Books	5	0	0	N	N	BRING IN THE CLONES...	This is a wonderfully inventive story that has spawned three films. Well written, the book tells the tale of a small town through the eyes of its young doctor, Miles Bennell. It seems the town is undergoing a drastic change which is as subtle as it is deadly. It seems that all the townspeople are not what they seem. They look the same. They sound the same. Their memories are intact. Still, they are just not the same.<br /><br />Those who have noticed this, suddenly end up retracting  their concerns days later. Something is  not right in the town of Mills Valley, and Dr, Bennell knows it. Those large seed pods that are suddenly showing up every where are at the root of it. Their unearthly presence is connected to the profound changes that the people of Mills Valley are undergoing, and Dr. Bennell will stop at nothing to save his beloved town and the world from the invasion of the body snatchers.<br /><br />This is a great story by a wonderfully inventive writer. Jack Finney is a masterful story teller. He expertly weaves a tale that will keep the reader riveted to the pages of this book. It is no wonder that three films based upon this book have been made, \\"The Invasion of the Body Snatchers\\" (1956), The Invasion of the Body Snatchers (1978), and Body Snatchers (1994). All three are worth watching.	2005-01-17
384602:US	49355567	R3O1Q044M4RZRO	345315052X	183059539	Der Gipfel. Tragödie am Mount Everest.	Books	3	1	1	N	N	AIN'T NO MOUNTAIN HIGH ENOUGH...	This is the German text edition of the story about the 1996 Everest tragedy told from the perspective of Anatoli Boukreev, who was one of the guides on the ill-fated Mountain Madness expedition. It is written almost as a rebuttal to the perceived criticism by Jon Krakauer (Into Thin Air) of Boukreev's actions on that ill-fated Everest climb.<br /><br />This is a poorly written account which is oftentimes confusing. It has none of the clarity of prose found in Krakauer's \\"Into Thin Air\\". It is, however, an important chronicle from someone who was there on Everest, and who had a pivotal role in the tragic events. Boukreev provides an insider's view of the Mountain Madness expedition itself and of the preparations which go into such a journey. It is packed with many interesting details which will delight Everest junkies.<br /><br />Whether Boukreev's actions on the mountain were irresponsible, in that he did not use supplementary oxygen to summit and immediately returned to camp after summitting, rather than remain with the expedition's clients, or whether he was just following the orders of the expedition leader, Scott Fisher, who himself died on Everest, is an issue which will long be debated in mountaineering circles. There is no doubt, however, that Boukreev did, in fact, single handedly rescue three of the climbers during a raging blizzard; climbers who without his intervention would have died. Given the extreme weather conditions, his foray up the mountain to rescue climbers is nothing less than heroic.<br /><br />Boukreev's is an important voice in the Everest annals, more so now that his voice has been silenced. On Christmas day, 1997, Boukreev died in an avalanche on Annapurna. RIP.	2005-01-17
384723:US	49355567	RV6VP1FA2QGUU	0399149651	636904914	PT2 Black Notice Audio	Books	4	1	2	N	N	NOT JUST ANOTHER WEREWOLF STORY...	This is an intriguing and well-crafted Kay Scarpetta mystery, which begins promisingly enough with the discovery of an overly ripe, dead body. Found stashed in a locked and sealed freight container aboard a cargo ship from Belgium that has landed in Dr. Kay Scarpetta's jurisdiction of Richmond, Virginia, the male, mystery corpse is covered with loose hairs. This intriguing beginning sends Dr. Kay Scarpetta, Richmond, Virginia's Chief Medical Examiner, on a hunt for information that turns international in scope. She discovers that this is just one of a number of murders to contain those tell tale hairs.<br /><br />The murders, themselves, are graphic and the forensic details, as always, are fascinating, and Dr. Scarpetta's critical analysis of the pathology issues are well thought out and highly informative, as she sifts through the forensic evidence in order to profile the killer. Her assessment of the peculiar affliction of this serial killer is intriguing, providing scientific insight into creatures who were called werewolves, but who may have only been persons with a rare and unusual genetic condition, causing them to be especially hirsute, among other anomalies.<br /><br />Moreover, there are a number of subplots afoot. Dr. Scarpetta, who is recovering from the death of her lover, Wesley Benton, faces a number of problems closer to home. It seems that she has been the victim of identity theft, with her internet screen name being used to set up a<br /><br />phony chat room, and personally destructive emails being sent falsely under her screen name.<br /><br />To add fuel to the fire, a new Deputy Chief in the Richmond police Department, Diane Bray, and has managed to demote Dr. Scarpetta's long time friend, Homicide Detective Pete Marino. Having her own secret agenda, Bray has turned her sights onto Dr. Scarpetta, desiring to get jurisdiction over the Medical Examiner's Office. Perfidy also exist among Dr. Scarpetta's trusted staff, and her niece Lucy, who is still not operating with a full deck, is on a dangerous, undercover police mission with her lover in Miami, adding yet another worry to Dr. Scarpetta's already full plate.<br /><br />It is the camaraderie between Pete Marino and Dr. Kay Scarpetta, however, that holds this particular book together. Their repartee and dialogue is wonderful, giving evidence of their comfortable and close relationship, without saying so in so many words. They carp as if they were an old married couple. Lucy, Dr. Scarpetta's niece, however, is still a loose cannon, and it is unbelievable that any police agency would allow her to run around with a gun in her hand, given her record for shooting it off. Mercifully, this annoying character has a smaller role than usual in this novel, and the reader may only hope that she will either be written out altogether or get an attitude adjustment.<br /><br />The ending of the book, however, is a little too pat. Dr. Scarpetta's actions in the book's grand finale are not really believable for such an astute and normally cautious woman. Given what she already knows about the killer, her actions in the end bespeak more of the actions of an unknowing civilian. Still, this book does not fail to entertain and is sure to provide reading pleasure for many Kay Scarpetta devotees.ll not operating with a full deck, is on a dangerous, undercover police mission with her lover in Miami, adding yet another worry to Dr. Scarpetta's already full plate.<br /><br />It is the camaraderie between Pete Marino and Dr. Kay Scarpetta, however, that holds this particular book together. Their repartee and dialogue is wonderful, giving evidence of their comfortable and close relationship, without saying so in so many words. They carp as if they were an old married couple. Lucy, Dr. Scarpetta's niece, however, is still a loose cannon, and it is unbelievable that any police agency would allow her to run around with a gun in her hand, given her record for shooting it off. Mercifully, this annoying character has a smaller role than usual in this novel, and the reader may only hope that she will either be written out altogether or get an attitude adjustment.<br /><br />The ending of the book, however, is a little too pat. Dr. Scarpetta's actions in the book's grand finale are not really believable for such an astute and normally cautious woman. Given what she already knows about the killer, her actions in the end bespeak more of the actions of an unknowing civilian. Still, this book does not fail to entertain and is sure to provide reading pleasure for many Kay Scarpetta devotees.	2005-01-17
384784:US	49355567	R206GULWFHE3ZV	0345292855	522281100	To Fear a Painted Devl	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A TRADITIONAL WHODUNIT...	This mystery by Ruth Rendell is one of her earlier efforts. It offers none of the well-drawn psychological portraits for which she would later become known. Instead, she offers the reader a somewhat  traditional whodunit sort of mystery with a tightly woven plot that has a few twists and turns. It makes for a quick, easy read.<br /><br />The plot is simple and direct.  It centers around an unhappily married, wealthy couple, the dictatorial Patrick and the put upon Tamsin, who live in a well to do community. When they have an ill-advised celebration in their home to celebrate Tamsin's birthday, Patrick becomes ill after an accident involving some wasps. Lucky for him, there was a doctor in the house. So, Patrick takes to his bed, none the worse for wear, only to never wake up again. His death is later deemed to be of natural causes.<br /><br />It turns out, however,  that many people had reason to dislike Patrick and wish that he were out of the way: his own wife, her lover, the twin  brother of his mistress, and a local business man that he was in the process of ruining. When gossip begins to churn in their close knit community, rumor has it that Patrick's death was anything but natural.  Who could have done it?<br /><br />That is for the reader to discover. If one is a fan of mysteries and of Ruth Rendell, one will, undoubtedly, enjoy this breezy little mystery and delight in trying to figure out who might be the killer.	2005-01-17
384786:US	49355567	RZYNOGU7YFZRI	3608952659	858960223	Hitze und Staub.	Books	4	0	0	N	N	THE HEAT OF THE ROMANCE...THE DUST OF ITS ASHES...	Winner of the 1975 Booker Prize, this is the German text edition of \\"Heat and Dust\\", a well-written book that explores Anglo-Indian relations through the power of romance. Set in two distinct eras, colonial India of the nineteen twenties, during the time of the Raj, and the independent, freewheeling India of the seventies, during the time when India was a mecca for disenfranchised youth, it tells the story of two women.<br /><br />One story is that of Olivia, the wife of a minor district official in colonial India, who in 1923 caused great scandal by running off with the Nawab, a local Indian prince. Divorced by her husband, Douglas, for this scandalous transgression, Olivia remains in India, while Douglas remarries. The second story is that of the narrator, a descendant of Douglas and his second wife. During the nineteen seventies, fascinated by the story of the now deceased Olivia, she goes to India, visiting those locations where Olivia had lived and those which would have been a part of her existence at the time. As did Olivia, she falls under India's spell. As did Olivia, she, too, has an Anglo-Indian love affair, and picks up where Olivia left off, giving the reader a powerful sense of de-ja vu.<br /><br />The book is a beguiling story of two women from two different generations who come under the spell of India. The book is evocative of British colonial India, as well as of India of the nineteen seventies. During both eras, Anglo-Indian relations are pivotal to the budding romances. The book is evocative of the rhythms of Indian life in all its richness and tumultuousness, as well as its lingering poverty and superstitions. It is redolent of a time gone by and hopeful of what is to come. It is also an interesting dichotomy of the good and bad in both cultures, Anglo and Indian, and the influence that both cultures have on these two women, who are so different, yet so alike.<br /><br />This is a book that whets the appetite, leaving the reader wanting more than the author is prepared to give. It is, nonetheless, a book well worth reading. The book was also made into a Merchant Ivory film starring Julie Christie and Greta Scacchi.n the author is prepared to give. It is, nonetheless, a book well worth reading. The book was also made into a Merchant Ivory film starring Julie Christie and Greta Scacchi.	2005-01-17
384867:US	49355567	R2EWLKPPRB3TC1	0517098725	761691187	Going Wrong	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A TWISTED TALE OF OBSESSIVE LOVE...	British author, Ruth Rendell, is, undoubtedly, the doyenne of psychological suspense, painting subtle portraits of offbeat, quirky characters that are just a tad off the beaten path. Delving into their psyches, she draws the reader into the slightly skewed world that they inhabit. Their world then becomes that of the reader, as the author weaves a tapestry of a world that is just a bit awry, deftly letting the reader know that something is wrong, so very wrong.<br /><br />The author does no less in this well-written novel, as she leads the reader into the mind and world of Guy Curran, a handsome, young man from the slums who has led a hard scrabble life, elevating himself from the bowels of poverty by dint of his own hard work and acquiring great wealth in the process . Unfortunately for him, that hard work included some less than reputable dealings in the drug trade, which provided the capital for his now legitimate businesses.<br /><br />For years, Guy has been obsessively in love with Leonora Chisholm, an upper class miss who, after years of being his reluctant childhood sweetheart, has rejected him and all the trappings of wealth and comfort he has to offer her. She prefers to live in genteel poverty with her friends, while acquiring a new boyfriend whom her family and friends like. Guy is convinced some of his past, shady dealings have come to the attention of someone in Leonora's family or inner circle. He believes that that individual has persuaded Leonora to turn away from him.<br /><br />Now, who would go and do such a thing? Read this well-written book and join Guy in the process of eliminating the likely suspect in this twisted tale of obsessive love.	2005-01-17
384949:US	49355567	R33MK2ON9NPNPA	B0007EGNAU	165195534	Starlight and storm;: The ascent of six great north faces of the Alps,	Books	4	0	0	N	N	POETRY IN MOTION...THE BROTHERHOOD OF THE ROPE...	Lyrically written, the author, Gaston Rebuffat, one of the world's climbing greats, expresses such joy for mountaineering that it is infectious. No climbing enthusiast's library should be without this book. Rebuffat is positively poetic in his description of various climbs. The reader almost feels as if one were as one with the mountain. A purist, the author climbed not for the glory of it, but for the sheer joy of the brotherhood of the rope. In these days, where climbing is often just a reason for a media event, the author's approach is refreshing, indeed.	2005-01-17
384995:US	49355567	R1EUDDMWW5P7PF	0399149643	908926686	PT2 Hornet's Nest Audio	Books	1	0	0	N	N	THIS BOOK WAS D.O.A. ...	I have read a number of other Patricia Cornwell books, from her Dr. Kay Scarpetta series. While they have all varied in quality, they usually range from good to excellent. That is why this book was a complete shock, as it is one of the worst books that I have read in a long time.<br /><br />This book is not a Dr. Kay Scarpetta series book. Instead, it is a police procedural that focuses on three individuals: Charlotte's stalwart Police Chief Judy Hammer, her drop dead gorgeous Deputy Chief Virginia West, and Andy Brazil, an intrepid, young news reporter. Unfortunately, while the premise may have been inspired, the book fails in its execution, with characters that never quite work, relationships that are far fetched or never quite gel, a plot that lacks focus and fails to capture the reader's imagination, as well as an excess of mediocre writing in need of serious editing.<br /><br />This audio book also suffers from a painful reading by noted actor Chris Sarandon, whose performance on this audio book is almost embarrassing. Narrated in a precise, almost prissy manner, his performance lacks a certain grit that is almost demanded by a police procedural. Moreover, his segues into the different characters are done in a way that grate upon the ear. Chris, a word to the wise...don't quit your day job.<br /><br />Readers beware. This book was dead on arrival. Do not spend one cent on this turkey. If you feel the urge for turkey, wait for Thanksgiving. Be thankful that you have not wasted your money on this book.	2005-01-17
385002:US	49355567	R3O62HEQEHZUBZ	039701001X	399926886	Alive: The Story of the Andes Survivors	Books	5	4	4	N	N	I GET BY WITH A LITTLE HELP FROM MY FRIENDS...	Time has not diminished the drama of the tale of the Uruguayan rugby team whose plane crashed in the Andes Mountains. Of the forty five people on the plane at the time of the crash, sixteen came down from the mountain about seventy days later with a saga of survival not easily forgotten.<br /><br />Theirs is a journey born of tragedy and human endurance. The author unfolds a tale that is gripping in the telling, as enthralling as it is almost unbelievable. It is investigative reporting at its best, because it does not fail to convey the human drama and pathos behind the story of this remarkable struggle for survival high up in the Andes Mountains. Masterfully written, it is a well balanced narrative that takes great pains to ground the experience of the survivors in the context out of which it arose.<br /><br />The plane had crashed in the Andes Mountains on Argentinian territory. It was an exercise in terror for those on the plane, as it barreled down the mountain, before finally coming to rest in a valley of snow high up in the Andes. Of the forty five persons on board, thirty two had initially survived the crash. Some, however, had sustained serious injuries. Time would not be their friend. Moreover, with little warm clothing (keep in mind that October is springtime in South America), the survivors were exposed to the extreme cold of the night air, high up in the Andes. Though spring, this still meant temperatures well below freezing. Damp, cold, and hungry, amid the anguished cries of the injured, thus began the first of many such nights.<br /><br />By their tenth day in the Andes, the limited food supplies, which they had rationed with all the care of a miser, had virtually run out. Starving and ravenously hungry, they voiced what they all knew to be true, but had not dared to voice before. They must eat, or they would die. The only thing left for them to eat, however, was abhorrent and deeply repugnant to them. Digging deep into their conservative, religious souls, they found a way to justify actions that would have them transcend a new reality. Their fallen comrades would now provide the means of their sustenance. All eventually succumbed to this only means of survival.<br /><br />This, while one of the most dramatic parts of their story, is just that, a part. Their survival entailed much more. They had to endure other deprivations. They had to survive the elements. They had to overcome a profound despair over being seemingly forgotten by the outside world. Ultimately, only sixteen were able to do so. How they did so will fascinate all readers of adventure literature. The means that they took to let the world know that they were still alive will astound even the most jaded of readers. It is an account of human endurance that is thought provoking and compelling, a quest to reconcile physical needs with the spiritual. It is, above all, a riveting testament to life.ouls, they found a way to justify actions that would have them transcend a new reality. Their fallen comrades would now provide the means of their sustenance. All eventually succumbed to this only means of survival.<br /><br />This, while one of the most dramatic parts of their story, is just that, a part. Their survival entailed much more. They had to endure other deprivations. They had to survive the elements. They had to overcome a profound despair over being seemingly forgotten by the outside world. Ultimately, only sixteen were able to do so. How they did so will fascinate all readers of adventure literature. The means that they took to let the world know that they were still alive will astound even the most jaded of readers. It is an account of human endurance that is thought provoking and compelling, a quest to reconcile physical needs with the spiritual. It is, above all, a riveting testament to life.	2005-01-17
385273:US	49355567	RP6UZBTOOQ1J8	0061012882	911928996	Second Sight	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	BEYOND THE NAKED EYE...	This is a moderately enjoyable novel of suspense that is more plot driven than character driven.  The central character, Marlie Kaplan, is a hotshot investigative broadcast journalist who is working clandestinely on a story about police corruption that she believes will put her in the catbird seat. She is also not opposed to taking risks to get the story that she wants. At the last minute, however, events take a deadly twist, and, as a result,  she is left blind.<br /><br />Having divorced her husband and having lost custody of her child, Marlie is desperate to regain her sight and her life. She undergoes experimental eye surgery in hopes of having her vision and her former life restored. While the surgery restores some of her sight, it adds a new dimension to her vision: the capacity to see people's auras. With the partial return of her vision, Marlie hopes to return to work but finds that her former employer is not interested. When Senator Richard Waring, a handsome and charismatic politician offers to give her an exclusive interview, Marlie decides to parlay that interview into the key that unlocks the door to her former job.<br /><br />When a rival and colleague is murdered, Marlie, however, is the only  witness. Due to her visual issues, she cannot identify the killer in the customary way. There is, however, something that she saw, something to which  no one, except the killer, can lay claim. Detective Carvelle, the detective investigating the incident that left Marlie blind, is worried for her safety, but Marlie suspects the Detective's interest in her may be connected to the police corruption story she was originally following. Meanwhile, to complicate matters, it appears that the Senator's interest in Marlie may be more than just professional.<br /><br />The reader will probably not need second sight to be able to unravel the mysteries contained within the pages of this book. One can decipher its secrets fairly easily, leaving the reader to wonder why Marlie is seemingly unable to do so, until it is almost too late.  There are also some issues that are ridiculous, such as the fact that Marlie, who formerly had custody of her teenage daughter, can now only have supervised visits, because of the supposed reckless behavior that brought about her blindness. Still, the book makes for an moderately entertaining read, if one's expectations are not unduly high.is seemingly unable to do so, until it is almost too late.  There are also some issues that are ridiculous, such as the fact that Marlie, who formerly had custody of her teenage daughter, can now only have supervised visits, because of the supposed reckless behavior that brought about her blindness. Still, the book makes for an moderately entertaining read, if one's expectations are not unduly high.	2005-01-16
385442:US	49355567	RKMN2AJSPNXRM	0870622501	749783263	The Expedition Of The Donner Party And Its Tragic Fate	Books	4	2	2	N	N	THE RECOLLECTIONS OF A DONNER PARTY SURVIVOR...	The author of this book, which was first published in 1911, was a survivor of the Donner Party, that hapless group of eighty-seven pioneers who in 1846, while navigating a supposedly new route to California, found themselves trapped high in the Sierra Mountains. Immobilized by snow and frigid weather, little more than half, mostly women and children, of this hardy band of westward-ho pioneers would survive the deprivation and great human suffering. One of those survivors  was Eliza P. Donner, then a child just under four years of age. She would live on, hearing of lurid tales of cannibalism, which were to mar her survival.<br /><br />A little less than half of this book is devoted to the doomed expedition itself. Of course, even though the author was one of its survivors, given her tender age, most of  the information about the expedition is based upon the recollections of other survivors, including those of her older sisters. She paints a fairly intimate and poignant portrait of her family, but the account of their tragic journey seems to be subjectively sanitized, as if to offset the grisly details that had become an integral part of the Donner Party legend.  The details of the Donner Party tragedy are best told by historian, George Stewart, in his book, \\"Ordeal by Hunger.\\"<br /><br />Still, this book provides an interesting look at the aftermath of the Donner Party debacle. It looks at early pioneer life in California, through the author's eyes, recounting what became of her and her surviving sisters, after their incredible rescue. This makes for an eye-opening, first hand account of what life was actually like in those early pioneering days. The author, an apparently hearty soul,  would go on to have quite a full and interesting life.  Written in an easy, conversational tone, this book will capture the interest of those who enjoy memoirs, books on pioneer life, or books on the Donner Party.	2005-01-16
385519:US	49355567	R1UKLWUK33SHQI	0888350325	239105227	Winter of Entrapment : A New Look at the Donner Party	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	A FRESH LOOK AT THE DOOMED DONNER PARTY...	Winner of the Award of Merit from the California Historical Association in 1994, this  book chronicles the travails of the infamous Donner Party, a wagon train of about eighty-seven people who in July 1846 started off for California via a new, untried route through the Sierras. Unfortunately, this particular wagon train of pioneers would go down in history due to the horror and tragedy that it was to meet along its way. Stranded in the Sierras amidst its harshest winter in years, with unparalleled snowfall and frigid temperatures. A little more than half of them, mostly women and children, were to survive their unbelievable deprivation and suffering.<br /><br />This wagon train was a loose confederation of strangers who originally were part of another wagon train, but who collectively branched off by consensus to try a new, though untried and unproven, overland route through the Sierras that was alleged to be shorter. Their decision to take this new route was one that would haunt them for the rest of their journey, as it was not what it was purported to be. The inexperience of these travelers, the poor decisions that were sometimes made, and their seeming inability to truly unify as one entity contributed to their ultimate debacle. They were, after all, representative of humanity at large. Some of them were good, brave, and unselfish. Some were just the opposite. As a group, they were pretty much reflective of humanity in general.<br /><br />Beleaguered by thirst as they trekked across a desert, marauded by Indians along the way, plagued by the loss of necessary oxen and cattle, beset by accidents and personal squabbles that would sometimes turn deadly, they would finally reach the Sierras and begin their perilous crossing, only to find themselves snowbound at the summit while within sight of the pass that they needed to cross to be home free. Trapped by the weather in early November, they would set up a make-shift camp, never thinking about just how long their encampment would last. With minimal food supplies at their disposal, these intrepid, westward-ho emigrants would find themselves trapped for months, facing incredible hardships that would tax them beyond human endurance. Some would resort to cannibalism in order to survive.<br /><br />This is a well-researched book that offers a fresh look at the ordeal of the Donner Party. It probably would be better for the reader, if the reader were  to have some prior knowledge about the Donner party, as this is not a strict chronological telling of the tale. Rather, it is a dissection of many of the issues that were to arise during the journey of the Donner Party with many digressions, while focusing on one family in particular, the Breens, as the author believes this family to have been very much maligned by earlier accounts of the Donner party.<br /><br />The author is evidently quite critical of the classic book on the subject, \\"Ordeal by Hunger\\",  written  by historian George R. Stewart. This author, also a historian,  spends quite a bit of time chastising Mr. Stewart and his research, which the author finds to be quite sloppy. He is particularly critical of  Mr. Stewart's sometimes florid prose, claiming that Mr. Stewart's book reads more as if it were fiction, being more mythical rather than factual.<br /><br />The author spends quite a bit of the book fervidly de-bunking some of Mr. Stewart's assertions of fact. The author also takes exception to Stewart's offensive characterization of some of the individuals in the Donner Party. These characterizations, while undeniably offensive, are reflective of the times in which the pioneers lived, as well as reflective of the time during which Mr. Stewart lived. To change it, would be to indulge in revisionist history.  Moreover, at times, the author sounds almost petty with respect to some of his criticisms.<br /><br />Still, for those who are interested in the Donner Party, this is, indeed, a book well worth reading. It is written in an easy,  straightforward, no-nonsense style.  It is a very carefully researched book and is given to less flights of fancy than is Mr. Stewart in his book. Both, however, are important works with respect to the doomed Donner Party, and each has earned its place in the body of work devoted to that tragedy. The book also contains about twenty five pages of photographs and illustrations that will enhance the pleasure of the reader.n an easy,  straightforward, no-nonsense style.  It is a very carefully researched book and is given to less flights of fancy than is Mr. Stewart in his book. Both, however, are important works with respect to the doomed Donner Party, and each has earned its place in the body of work devoted to that tragedy. The book also contains about twenty five pages of photographs and illustrations that will enhance the pleasure of the reader.	2005-01-16
385735:US	49355567	R1DTIBRBMKVMKJ	0465097057	878798437	Five Families: Mexican Case Studies in the Culture of Poverty	Books	5	12	14	N	N	IT'S A FAMILY AFFAIR...	I first read this book many years ago, along with some of the author's other works, and decided to take read it again. Time certainly has not diminished the power of the author,  winner of the 1967 National Book Award for his book, \\"La Vida\\",  to take the reader into the lives of others. This is an anthropological work that  reads as if it were a riveting novel, so fascinating is its subject matter.<br /><br />The author takes the reader into the lives of five different Mexican families for one entire day, so that the reader can see how it is that they live their lives. The families are both rural and urban and represent a cross-section of Mexico at the time that this book was written. All but one of the families portrayed are poor, yet they all share some similar characteristics.<br /><br />Written during the nineteen fifties, this book is, for the most part, a look at a culture of poverty. It is also a look at a culture that is in transition, shifting from rural to urban with its often resulting poverty and pathology.  Yet, it is also a culture into which, North American material comforts and influence were making inroads. That then nascent influence is often reflected in even the poorest of the families laid bare here.<br /><br />The author basically gives the reader a typical day in the lives of each of these families.  It is an intimate, objective look that creates a fascinating family portrait. It is a totally engrossing work of not only anthropological import but of historical value, as well. The author has managed to freeze in time a segment of Mexican life during the nineteen fifties. Who would have thought that reading about people shopping, preparing meals, and talking about their relationships would prove to be so fascinating?<br /><br />Those who are interested in other cultures, as well as the way people live their lives, will really enjoy this book. The author provides a fascinating, freeze-frame  glimpse into the lives of others. I simply loved this book. Bravo!book. Bravo!	2005-01-16
386131:US	49355567	R3KJ4378OMRK9N	0340179414	81176048	The Concubine	Books	5	14	15	N	N	ANNE OF THE THOUSAND DAYS...	This is a well-written work of historical fiction that focuses on Anne Boleyn. It is her story, told against the backdrop of the turbulent Tudor court. The author paints a portrait of Anne Boleyn with small brush strokes, creating a picture of a fully fleshed, complex woman.<br /><br />The author first shows Anne as a vulnerable, though elegant young woman,  fresh from the French court and now a lady-in-waiting to Queen Catherine. She is in the throes of first love with Henry Percy, the son and heir of the Earl of Northumberland. He, too, is smitten, and they plan to marry. Yet, just as she is about to realize her dream, Cardinal Wolsey intervenes, and she and Percy are no longer free to marry. A bitter Anne, misinterpreting why Wolsey acted as he did, vows to make Wolsey pay for her unhappy plight.<br /><br />It soon becomes clear, however, as to why Wolsey interfered in her personal affairs. It appears that Anne has caught the eye of King Henry VIII, and nothing in England will ever again be the same. With her ambitious family in the wings, Anne leads the King on a merry chase, holding onto her chastity until the very last, while holding out for the Queen's crown.<br /><br />Anne would wait in the wings all but Queen except in name, as King Henry VIII spent years trying to shed himself of  Queen Catherine, his long suffering wife, under the theory that they had never really been married in the eyes of God. After all,  Catherine had first been his brother Arthur's wife. This was euphemistically known as the King's private matter, though it seemed all of England knew of it and frowned upon it, due to Queen Catherine's popularity.<br /><br />Still, the King was determined upon setting his first marriage aside in order to marry Anne. This matter would set the backdrop for the coming Reformation. The rise of Protestantism is evoked through the person of Emma Arnett, Anne's personal maid, making Anne's story more three dimensional, as this sub-plot grounds Anne's story in the historical context of the time.<br /><br />The reader sees Anne's transition from that of  a disillusioned girl into a woman with a great deal of power, who sees her power wane once the King has consummated his love and quenched his desire for her.  The reader also sees Henry VIII make a gradual transition from being a king with an occasional roving eye, to besotted suitor, to a tyrannical despot, seeking to beget a legitimate son by whatever means necessary. It also explains why the King at varying times viewed Anne as his beloved, then as his Queen and  potential mother of his male heir, and finally as a treasonous harlot.<br /><br />Anne's story is intelligently told by an master storyteller, well-crafted and  compelling. It is a wonderful work of historical fiction that is replete with period detail, political intrigues, and a shimmering panoply of historical events. This is a novel that those who enjoy well-written historical fiction or those who enjoy novels about Anne Boleyn or the Tudor court will love.in the historical context of the time.<br /><br />The reader sees Anne's transition from that of  a disillusioned girl into a woman with a great deal of power, who sees her power wane once the King has consummated his love and quenched his desire for her.  The reader also sees Henry VIII make a gradual transition from being a king with an occasional roving eye, to besotted suitor, to a tyrannical despot, seeking to beget a legitimate son by whatever means necessary. It also explains why the King at varying times viewed Anne as his beloved, then as his Queen and  potential mother of his male heir, and finally as a treasonous harlot.<br /><br />Anne's story is intelligently told by an master storyteller, well-crafted and  compelling. It is a wonderful work of historical fiction that is replete with period detail, political intrigues, and a shimmering panoply of historical events. This is a novel that those who enjoy well-written historical fiction or those who enjoy novels about Anne Boleyn or the Tudor court will love.	2005-01-16
386159:US	49355567	R3SLOV36JIUIHL	3442421357	197139178	Im Eishaus (German Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A MOST AUSPICIOUS DEBUT NOVEL...	Winner of Britain's John Creasey Award for Best First Crime Novel, this is the German text edition of the splendid debut novel by the author, \\"The Ice House\\". She weaves a marvelous mystery surrounding three women who live together in an English Country manor house, one of whom, Phoebe Maybury, is suspected of having murdered her bounder of a husband ten years ago. More recently, a corpse in found in an old icehouse on their property and rumors begin flying fast and furious about these three women.<br /><br />Ostracized by the community in which they live, these three women become larger than life in the minds of the local townsfolk. The  charming and artistic Diana Goode and the earthy, no nonsense Anne Catrell hunker about their housemate, Phoebe, as the events of the past threaten to crop up again and overwhelm her.<br /><br />The police, led by Chief Inspector Walsh, a man with his own underlying agenda, seems intent upon putting the screws to these three women, fixating upon Phoebe Maybury. Only Sergeant Detective McLoughlin seems to be genuinely interested in discovering the truth. In order to do so, however, he must confront his own personal demons, as he finds himself drawn into a snare of deceit, good intentions gone awry, loyalty, and a secret that threatens to ruin the lives of three women.<br /><br />The author cleverly uses the discovery of the corpse as a catalyst for a voyage of self-discovery for some of her characters. Brimming with a cornucopia of subplots and one or two red herrings, the author grips the reader with a literate and compelling narrative. She is a welcome addition to the ever growing list of British mystery novelists. This author's work should appeal to those who enjoy mysteries written by Ruth Rendell.	2005-01-16
387443:US	49355567	R33UD6E7WGEXEU	3492233503	461148630	Olympia.	Books	5	32	33	N	N	COMPELLING...PROVOCATIVE...	This is the German text edition of \\"Fortune's Rock\\",  a well-crafted and lyrically written narrative, evocative of an era gone by. It tells the story of Olympia Biddeford, the unusually erudite and well-educated fifteen year old daughter of a Boston Brahmin. One hot and steamy summer in turn of the century New Hampshire, she falls passionately and utterly in love with her father's friend, forty one year old John Haskell, a physician and man of letters, who has a wife and four children. She, captivated by his intelligence and his crusade on behalf of exploited mill workers, and he, drawn to her youth, intelligence and beauty, leave behind all thought of propriety. Breaking every moral and social taboo of the time, they enter into a forbidden, illicit love affair, which is ultimately doomed, with cataclysmic ramifications for all whom the affair touches.<br /><br />The book explores how this young woman copes with the loss of her life in a larger social milieu, once the affair enters into the public domain, through the machinations of another. She and the doctor, as well as their respective families, are tainted with scandal and presented with the fruit of that illicit love. The book explores how Olympia must reconstruct the tatters of her life into one in which she is finally able to expiate her youthful indiscretion within the context of the mores of the time. In doing so, she goes on a voyage of self-discovery. Yet, through it all, she never once renounces her devotion to the man who introduced her to the throes of a passion so deep and profound that she gave herself over to it, body and soul. How these star-crossed lovers finally come to terms with their grand passion is a story that the author seamlessly weaves into a book that will hold the reader in its thrall.	2005-01-14
387629:US	49355567	R1QMGQQXA1QYXA	9501514528	285103279	Luna de Invierno (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	VERY CREEPY...KEEP THE LIGHTS ON!...	This is the Spanish text edition of \\"Winter Moon\\", a highly entertaining, quick read, that is sure to provide some chills. Here, a heroic, Los Angeles Police Department cop, Jack McGarvey, is shot and almost killed, in a wild shoot out which sees several civilians killed, as well as his partner, the second partner Jack has lost inside of a year. After a four month convalescence, Jack, his wife, Heather, and their son, Toby, receive an unexpected gift, seemingly from the Gods. Eduardo Hernandez, the father of Thomas, his former partner of eleven years, died and left Jack a six hundred acre ranch in Montana, as well as a substantial sum of cash. Having decided that enough is enough, Jack and Heather agree to relocate to Montana.<br /><br />Unbeknownst to Jack, before seventy year old Eduardo Hernandez died, he had been experiencing some mighty strange goings on at the ranch. One night, a bizarre, electronic oscillation pulsed through the bone deep quiet of the Montana air, coming in disturbing waves, accompanied by the sense of an alien presence. Returning a month later in an even more disquieting fashion, it was louder, with more rhythmic pounding, causing the ranch house to vibrate. This undulation of sound lured Eduardo out of his home, calling out to him, the sense of an alien presence overwhelming. Again, it disappeared, as quickly as it began. When the same thing occurred a month later, a two dimensional doorway into infinite blackness appeared, a portal into the unknown. Soon after this portal appeared, the surrounding wildlife began to act strangely. Just what was going on?<br /><br />Read this book and find out. Just remember...leave the lights on!	2005-01-14
387664:US	49355567	R2IU7JWDADGSYF	0525945814	101423143	Falling Angels: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	PERCEPTIONS AND DECEPTIONS...	This book covers the period in the lives of two families that stretches from January 1901,  the end of the Victorian era, to May 1910,  the end of the Edwardian one. The lives of these two families, the Colemans and the Waterhouses, converge and become inextricably woven together when they inadvertently meet at a cemetery while paying their respects to deceased loved ones. Unbeknownst to them, their lives are moving inexorably towards a tragic denouement, one that is to have ramifications for both families.<br /><br />Two of the daughters of these respective families, Lavinia Waterhouse and Maude Coleman, find that they have formed the beginning of a  friendship during the brief interlude at the cemetery.  The two girls also befriend Simon Field, the son of one of the gravediggers at the cemetery.  The  friendship of the two girls is cemented when they later discover that they are to be neighbors, as through happenstance the Waterhouse family moves onto a property adjacent to that of the Colemans. Despite differences in social class and personal taste, as the Waterhouses are definitely sentimentally  bourgeois and the Colemans have pretensions to more refinement, the families are brought together, however unwillingly, through the friendship between Lavinia and Maude.<br /><br />The mothers of these two girls are unable to form a true friendship, as stolid  Gertrude Waterhouse and pretty Kitty Coleman are unable to find much common ground. Gertrude is bound in tradition, while Kitty, dissatisfied with her marriage and her life, is looking to escape tradition and expand the role allotted in society to women. Never the twain shall meet, as these women will never see eye-to-eye, despite the friendship between Lavinia and Maude.<br /><br />This is a well-plotted novel with each character adding his or her perspective to the events that unfold, many of which are of a secretive nature.  Even the husbands, Albert Waterhouse and Richard Coleman, have something to say that contributes to the development of the story, as does Richard Coleman's mother, Edith, as do the Coleman's maid, Jenny Whitby, and their cook, Dorothy Baker. Lavinia's younger sister, Ivy May, who plays a small but pivotal role,  also has her say, as does Kitty's admirer, John Jackson. There are also a number of twists and turns in the tale.<br /><br />The story is told in the clean, spare prose that fans of the author have come to expect.  It is told through first person narratives, and it is almost as if the narratives were taken from the personal diary or journal of each character. Therein lies the rub, as the author is unable to make the voice of each character truly distinguishable from that of the others. The book suffers somewhat from the failure of the author to develop a truly unique voice for each one.  This is, however, the only failing of this otherwise absorbing and intriguing story that is suffused with period detail. This is an otherwise excellent book that fans of the author will enjoy, as will those who love historical fiction.ntributes to the development of the story, as does Richard Coleman's mother, Edith, as do the Coleman's maid, Jenny Whitby, and their cook, Dorothy Baker. Lavinia's younger sister, Ivy May, who plays a small but pivotal role,  also has her say, as does Kitty's admirer, John Jackson. There are also a number of twists and turns in the tale.<br /><br />The story is told in the clean, spare prose that fans of the author have come to expect.  It is told through first person narratives, and it is almost as if the narratives were taken from the personal diary or journal of each character. Therein lies the rub, as the author is unable to make the voice of each character truly distinguishable from that of the others. The book suffers somewhat from the failure of the author to develop a truly unique voice for each one.  This is, however, the only failing of this otherwise absorbing and intriguing story that is suffused with period detail. This is an otherwise excellent book that fans of the author will enjoy, as will those who love historical fiction.	2005-01-14
387916:US	49355567	R20U9S5RG220PQ	3548600697	312212506	Das Madchen Mit Dem Perlenohrring (German Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	BEAUTIFULLY WRITTEN HISTORICAL FICTION...	In this German text edition of the best selling novel, \\"Girl with a Pearl Earring\\", the gifted author weaves a mesmerizing tale around Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer's most famous painting, creating an incandescent and luminous work of her own. His painting is a simple, though enigmatic, portrait of a girl with a pearl earring, about which little is known. The author, however, a born storyteller, creates a living, breathing story around it, using a singular, first person narrative. Told in spare, elegant prose, the author leaps into literary renown with this book.<br /><br />The events in the book are viewed through the eyes of Griet, a sixteen year old Dutch girl, whose changed family circumstances force her into taking a position as a maid in the home of a renowned painter, the taciturn Johannes Vermeer. There, the painter resides with his tempestuous wife, Catharina, their brood of unruly children, his commanding and shrewd mother-in-law, Maria Thins, and their loyal housekeeper and cook, Tanneke. The author lovingly details seventeenth century life in the Dutch city of Delft. It is here that Griet's story unfolds.<br /><br />Sensitive and perceptive, Griet is attuned to the under currents in the Vermeer household and, at first, takes care not to draw attention to herself. Still, she, the daughter of a tile painter, is curious about Vermeer's artistry and is drawn to his work and his methods. Vermeer, sensing a kindred artistic spirit in Griet, draws her into his world of paint, color, light, and beauty, creating an intimacy of the spirit between the two.<br /><br />Still, Griet, a girl on the brink of becoming a woman, finds herself confused and breathlessly desiring more than she may have. Her longing for more than a communion of the spirit with Vermeer is palpable. It is, therefore, not surprising that the undercurrents in the Vermeer household should come bubbling to the surface and engulf Griet, much to her consternation.<br /><br />This is a stunning literary work that fully realizes the promise that the author showed in her debut novel, \\"The Virgin Blue\\". She is an author that understands the less is often more, and she makes every word count. Deliberate and spare, her prose is lyrical in its simplicity, weaving a tale that will keep the reader spellbound. This is historical fiction at its finest. Bravo!y work that fully realizes the promise that the author showed in her debut novel, \\"The Virgin Blue\\". She is an author that understands the less is often more, and she makes every word count. Deliberate and spare, her prose is lyrical in its simplicity, weaving a tale that will keep the reader spellbound. This is historical fiction at its finest. Bravo!	2005-01-14
388007:US	49355567	R2CXUSSO0KL1KX	0060014091	101047948	Blindsided: Lifting a Life Above Illness: A Reluctant Memoir	Books	4	42	56	N	Y	A BITTER PILL TO SWALLOW...	This is a well-written memoir by a very angry man. He is very angry at a disease that made itself manifest in the prime of his life. When he was twenty-five years old, the author discovered that he had multiple sclerosis. His coping method throughout his life has been denial, and he seems to have found his taste of life to have been bitter rather than sweet. One need only to see his picture on the cover of the book to know this, as his bitterness appears to be etched on his face. Even his flashes of humor are tinged by bitterness and cynicism.<br /><br />Still, this is a very personal, honest, and intimate, though, perhaps, as the author says, reluctant memoir. This is memoir by a man who looks at his  life as being half-empty, rather than half-full.  Yet, he is a man who has had an interesting and respected career in the field of television broadcast journalism, being a three time Emmy Award winner. He married a beautiful and talented woman, Meredith Vieira, who would go on to rise to the top in her field as a host for ABC's hit morning talk show, \\"The View\\".  Moreover, she married him aware that he had this illness. They would go on to have three beautiful children, and all the creature comforts that such careers can provide.<br /><br />Yet, the author's bitterness and hostility seem to cloud his thoughts and actions.  Just when he thinks that things cannot get any worse, colon cancer enters the picture, exacerbating his multiple sclerosis symptoms.  Moreover, his so far successful battle against colon cancer has left him its legacy. He now has to fight the psychic pain and humiliation of having endured an ileostomy and all its attendant indignities.  Yes, he has the dreaded poop bag, and that has almost been the final straw for him. In some ways, who can blame him for feeling the way he does?<br /><br />As for his wife, she is a woman who has stuck by her man through thick and thin, working, raising their children, and helping her husband cope. I take my hat off to her for maintaining her equilibrium while living with such a man. It must, indeed, be difficult to live with the author, not because of his multiple sclerosis or his bouts with colon cancer and its aftermath, though that, I am sure, has to have been difficult, but because of his bitterness and hostility, some of which seems to be subliminally directed towards his wife, due to the way that the media has portrayed each of them.<br /><br />His life is also tinged by the frustration and sadness of what he and his children are unable to share. Perhaps, the author should focus on those things that they can share, but, as I said, he looks at his life as being half-empty, rather than half-full. I only hope that he will be able to find a measure of happiness, before it is too late, and appreciate what he does have, rather than what he does not.to her for maintaining her equilibrium while living with such a man. It must, indeed, be difficult to live with the author, not because of his multiple sclerosis or his bouts with colon cancer and its aftermath, though that, I am sure, has to have been difficult, but because of his bitterness and hostility, some of which seems to be subliminally directed towards his wife, due to the way that the media has portrayed each of them.<br /><br />His life is also tinged by the frustration and sadness of what he and his children are unable to share. Perhaps, the author should focus on those things that they can share, but, as I said, he looks at his life as being half-empty, rather than half-full. I only hope that he will be able to find a measure of happiness, before it is too late, and appreciate what he does have, rather than what he does not.	2005-01-14
403166:US	49355567	R2G0SI4X9FVRBA	0618059458	301023145	The Human Stain	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	HE'S COME UNDONE...	Overall, I liked this book, despite the author's oftentimes wordy and dense prose.  It was an interesting look at one man's history, a proud man who was brought to heel and hoisted by his own petard in a most ironic way. It seems that the main protagonist in his book, Coleman Silk, an esteemed classics college professor, who almost single-handedly put small, liberal arts Athena college on the academic map, finds himself brought up on charges by the college for using a word that has dual meanings, one of which is racially offensive to blacks, in connection with two students.  Coleman has never seen the students at the heart of the brouhaha, as they missed all their classes. Consequently, he has no idea what their racial makeup is when he uses the word that is to cause so much offense.<br /><br />Coleman is rightly outraged by his colleagues reaction towards him in connection with this incident and, in particular, by one colleague's virulent attempt to castigate him and paint him as the devil incarnate. Coleman then cuts off his nose to spite his face and resigns from the college, holding the college responsible for the death of his wife, when she dies shortly after learning of his disgrace. What the college does not know, and what makes the accusation so ironic, is that Coleman Silk is an African-American who has been passing for white. Therein lies the rub, as Coleman and his life slowly unravel.<br /><br />Coleman, now in his early seventies, is fighting mad about the way his once promising and respected life seems to be ending. He is not helping matters any, however, when he takes up with Faunia Farley, an under-educated, emotionally troubled  janitor at the college who is half is age and has a great deal of personal baggage from her own turbulent past, including an abusive, Vietnam vet ex-husband who stalks her.  Coleman is like a man possessed and seems to go into an emotional tailspin, seeking to right what went wrong. To that end he reaches out to writer Nathan Zuckerman, whom he befriends, and asks him to write his story, as he himself is unable to write it. Of course, Coleman is unable to write it, because he cannot do so without revealing the secret that he kept for fifty years from his wife, his children, his colleagues, and his friends.<br /><br />When tragedy strikes, Nathan Zuckerman is left to put the pieces together and discover what it was that made Coleman Silk the man that he was. This is a very compelling story. The most affecting parts of the book have to do with Coleman's early life, before he decided to pass. It is an indictment of race relations in America at the time of his decision, when someone perceived to be a black man was unable to be all that he could be. Coleman, a very bright and talented young man, seeking to be all that he could be without thinking about race, chose to pass. He was simply not interested in being a role model for those of his perceived race.<br /><br />There are parts of the novel, however, that do not ring true. His affair with the janitor is a little hard to believe. I suppose that that the reason that Coleman and Faunia come together, other than the obvious sexual one, is because of the inherent,  personal pathology that each one brings to the relationship. Of course, the relationship makes Coleman feel young again. Still, it is more distracting that enlightening in terms of the issues contained within the pages of this book. I also found her ex-husband to be more of a caricature and distraction more than anything else, though he is necessary to the plot.<br /><br />Still, there is much to like about this novel, if one can overlook the somewhat self-indulgent prose that probably could have used better editing. The issues of racial identity are interesting and are the ones that provide much food for thought. It is in these issues that the strength of the book lies, even though the questions that they raise remain unanswered. This is a good book that could have been a great one.ne.	2005-01-03
403717:US	49355567	R3MQVEGF23X65N	0874211212	221018148	Emma Lee	Books	4	13	14	N	Y	THE LOT OF MORMON WOMEN ON THE WESTERN FRONTIER...	The author,  born in 1898, grew up in Southern Nevada in a polygamous family within an isolated Mormon community. She became a historian and writer with a focus on Mormon history, numbering renowned author Wallace Stegner among her friends.<br /><br />The author's  view of Mormon history is uncompromising. Here, she chooses to tell the story of Emma Lee, one of the nineteen wives of John D. Lee, who was convicted and executed for his role in the Mountain  Meadows Massacre of September 1857. It is the author's position that John D. Lee was a scapegoat for one of the darkest moments in Mormon history. The massacre saw the ambush of a company of approximately one hundred and twenty emigrants en route by wagon train to California. Mormon settlers slaughtered all but seventeen children under the age of seven, who were spared and ultimately adopted by Mormon families.<br /><br />The author tells Emma Lee's story  in  austere, clear, crisp prose without flourishes. Born Emma Batchelor in England in 1836, as a young woman she fell under the sway of  Mormon missionaries in England, as did one of her friends. Together they would convert to Mormonism and emigrate to America, bound for Utah. In December of 1857, Sister Emma would meet John D. Lee, and it would seem that it was love at first sight for the twenty-one year old Emma and John, who was old enough to be her father and had a daughter Emma's age. Within two weeks, Emma and John  were married. Thus, Emma became a sister wife.<br /><br />The book details Emma's life as a pioneer sister wife and the hardships and happiness she would experience as wife to a man who was initially well-respected within his insular community and was on a first name basis with Brigham Young himself.  He would eventually become a pariah within that very same community and would move his wife Emma to Lonely Dell in Arizona, where they would establish a ferry service across the Colorado River, which would help with the general Mormon plan for colonization in Arizona.  In 1876, however, John D. Lee was offered up to the authorities by the church hierarchy to expiate the sins of the Mormon community nearly twenty years after the fact for the atrocity of the Mountain Meadows Massacre. Throughout her entire married life to John D. Lee, Emma would remain steadfast and true to her husband, no matter what difficulties would present themselves.<br /><br />The author paints a picture of what Emma's life was like on the western frontier. To her would be left the entire responsibility of the household, including giving birth without the help of another adult, so isolated and lonely would be some of the places in which she and her children would live, as her husband's luck began running out. After her husband's conviction and execution for his participation in the Mountain Meadows Massacre, the church hierarchy dealt with Emma by ousting her from her home in Lonely Dell, Arizona and reneging on the promised payment.  She would rebuild her life with her children in Winslow, Arizona, where she became a beloved member of the community until her death in 1897.<br /><br />The book offers six pages of black and white photographs, some of which help illustrate just how hardscrabble life could be on the frontier, especially for a sister wife who was often left to her own devices, while her husband went and spent time with his other wives. Those who enjoy reading about pioneer life or Mormon history will enjoy this book.nization in Arizona.  In 1876, however, John D. Lee was offered up to the authorities by the church hierarchy to expiate the sins of the Mormon community nearly twenty years after the fact for the atrocity of the Mountain Meadows Massacre. Throughout her entire married life to John D. Lee, Emma would remain steadfast and true to her husband, no matter what difficulties would present themselves.<br /><br />The author paints a picture of what Emma's life was like on the western frontier. To her would be left the entire responsibility of the household, including giving birth without the help of another adult, so isolated and lonely would be some of the places in which she and her children would live, as her husband's luck began running out. After her husband's conviction and execution for his participation in the Mountain Meadows Massacre, the church hierarchy dealt with Emma by ousting her from her home in Lonely Dell, Arizona and reneging on the promised payment.  She would rebuild her life with her children in Winslow, Arizona, where she became a beloved member of the community until her death in 1897.<br /><br />The book offers six pages of black and white photographs, some of which help illustrate just how hardscrabble life could be on the frontier, especially for a sister wife who was often left to her own devices, while her husband went and spent time with his other wives. Those who enjoy reading about pioneer life or Mormon history will enjoy this book.	2005-01-03
403841:US	49355567	R4CJFNATTMUU7	0743256158	818080128	The Virgin's Lover (The Plantagenet and Tudor Novels)	Books	5	69	77	N	N	INTRIGUING ROMANTIC HISTORICAL FICTION ...	This is romantic historical fiction at its finest, replete with an abundance of period detail. The focus of the book is the romantic triangle involving the newly crowned tempestuous Queen, Elizabeth I, her lover and Master of Horse, Sir Robert Dudley, and his long suffering wife, Amy, whose dreams of a simple life with her husband are shattered with Elizabeth's rise to the throne upon the death of her half-sister, Queen Mary.<br /><br />There is also a cat and mouse game involving Elizabeth, her Secretary of State, the canny and shrewd William Cecil, and Robert Dudley, which develops as it becomes clear that  Dudley has his heart on becoming King and ruling alongside Elizabeth as an equal, something that can only be accomplished through marriage to Elizabeth.<br /><br />Unfortunately for Sir Robert Dudley, his wife, Amy, a secret Catholic, has no intention of divorcing him. Moreover, Elizabeth has no intention of letting Dudley rule as King rather than just being King consort, were they to someday wed. Yet, she is in a quandary, as she finds herself unable to resist Dudley's charms and can refuse him nothing. Elizabeth turns to William Cecil for help in saving her from herself. William Cecil knows all too well that marriage to a Dudley would be disastrous for England, as Dudley, being the Queen's favorite, is one of the most unpopular men at court with the other courtiers. Moreover, the Dudley family, though a powerful and ancient lineage, has a treasonous history.<br /><br />What Cecil devises is diabolical but plausible. This twist in the tale is certainly an ingenious way of explaining a mysterious death, a death that has never been satisfactorily explained by historians.  It is a death that certainly served to cast a pall upon Dudley's ambitions and ensured that he and Elizabeth would never wed. It also ensured that the canny William Cecil would be the most powerful person in England, excepting Elizabeth.<br /><br />This is a wonderful tale of the Tudor Court and the beginning of the Elizabethan era. There are those readers, however, who may find it difficult to reconcile the histrionic and besotted, love-struck Elizabeth of this work of fiction with the more familiar image of Elizabeth as the self-reliant and strong willed Queen Regnant. Those who enjoyed the author's book, \\"The Other Boleyn Girl\\", will surely enjoy this one. Set against a backdrop of political intrigues, it is a well-written, well-researched work of romantic historical fiction that will keep the reader turning the pages.d the beginning of the Elizabethan era. There are those readers, however, who may find it difficult to reconcile the histrionic and besotted, love-struck Elizabeth of this work of fiction with the more familiar image of Elizabeth as the self-reliant and strong willed Queen Regnant. Those who enjoyed the author's book, \\"The Other Boleyn Girl\\", will surely enjoy this one. Set against a backdrop of political intrigues, it is a well-written, well-researched work of romantic historical fiction that will keep the reader turning the pages.	2005-01-02
405399:US	49355567	RWG2FWC34GIBH	0395611598	16111957	Ordeal by Hunger: The Story of the Donner Party	Books	4	11	12	N	Y	AN AMERICAN SURVIVAL STORY...	This book presents an account of the Donner Party, a wagon train of about eighty-seven people who in July 1846 started off for California via a new, untried route through the Sierras. Unfortunately, this particular wagon train of pioneers would go down in history due to the horror and tragedy that it was to meet along its way. Stranded in the Sierras amidst its harshest winter in years, with unparalleled snowfall and frigid temperatures, only little more than half, mostly women and children, were to survive their unbelievable deprivation and suffering.<br /><br />This wagon train was a loose confederation of strangers who originally were part of another wagon train, but who collectively branched off by consensus to try a new, though untried and unproven, overland route through the Sierras that was alleged to be shorter. Their decision to take this new route was one that would haunt them for the rest of their journey, as it was not what it was purported to be. The inexperience of these travelers, the poor decisions that were sometimes made, and their seeming inability to truly unify as one entity contributed to their ultimate debacle. They were, after all, representative of humanity at large. Some of them were good, brave, and unselfish. Some were people with whom one would not wish to shake hands.<br /><br />Beleaguered by thirst as they trekked across a desert, marauded by Indians along the way, plagued by the loss of necessary oxen and cattle, beset by accidents and personal squabbles that would sometimes turn deadly, they would finally reach the Sierras and begin their perilous crossing, only to find themselves snowbound at the summit while within sight of the pass that they needed to cross to be home free. Trapped by the weather in early November, they would set up a make-shift camp, never thinking about just how long their encampment would last. With minimal food supplies at their disposal, these intrepid, westward-ho emigrants would find themselves trapped for months, facing incredible hardships that would tax them beyond human endurance. Some would resort to cannibalism in order to survive.<br /><br />This is a riveting story about survival of the fittest, about personal sacrifice, and human foibles. It is a story not only of those ill-fated pioneers but of those who would attempt to rescue them, often at great personal cost. It is a story that reflects the human spirit, both good and bad, in time of crisis. It is a story of often selfless heroism. It is also a story of greed and craven opportunism. While some of the book is politically incorrect, it is reflective of the times in which these pioneers lived, as well as that of when this book was first written.<br /><br />It is, however, remiss that the maps included in this book do little to illustrate the deadly journey undertaken by these pioneers. Still, the lack of comprehensive maps does not unduly detract from the powerful impact that this story has on the reader. Moreover, although the book was published in 1936, the author, a trained historian, added a supplement in 1960, which is included in this edition of his book. This supplement serves to correct errors, as well as incorporate additional relevant material not available at the time of original publication.<br /><br />Those who enjoy tales of survival will, undoubtedly, find this gripping tale well worth reading.months, facing incredible hardships that would tax them beyond human endurance. Some would resort to cannibalism in order to survive.<br /><br />This is a riveting story about survival of the fittest, about personal sacrifice, and human foibles. It is a story not only of those ill-fated pioneers but of those who would attempt to rescue them, often at great personal cost. It is a story that reflects the human spirit, both good and bad, in time of crisis. It is a story of often selfless heroism. It is also a story of greed and craven opportunism. While some of the book is politically incorrect, it is reflective of the times in which these pioneers lived, as well as that of when this book was first written.<br /><br />It is, however, remiss that the maps included in this book do little to illustrate the deadly journey undertaken by these pioneers. Still, the lack of comprehensive maps does not unduly detract from the powerful impact that this story has on the reader. Moreover, although the book was published in 1936, the author, a trained historian, added a supplement in 1960, which is included in this edition of his book. This supplement serves to correct errors, as well as incorporate additional relevant material not available at the time of original publication.<br /><br />Those who enjoy tales of survival will, undoubtedly, find this gripping tale well worth reading.	2005-01-01
406880:US	49355567	R2AMXNPMROMY4N	055312160X	401309433	The Two	Books	5	19	19	N	N	TRUTH IS STRANGER THAN FICTION...	I first read this book approximately twenty-five years ago, when it was first published. I remember that I had very much enjoyed the glimpse that it offered into the fascinating lives of nineteenth century conjoined twins, Chang and Eng, the original \\"Siamese Twins\\". Having recently read the novel, \\"Chang and Eng\\",  by Darin Strauss, my interest in these twins was piqued, and I decided to re-read this book.<br /><br />Time has not diminished the capacity of this biography to captivate and hold the interest of the reader. Truth is, indeed, stranger than fiction.  The authors provide the reader with a well-researched look at the interesting and unusual lives led by conjoined twins, Chang and Eng. Born in Siam, which is now known as Thailand, on a houseboat on the Mekong River in 1811, Chang and Eng were conjoined at the chest by a band of fleshy cartilage. It was this small band of flesh that would bind them in life, making the two as one.<br /><br />Being forced to be together by their conjoinment, even in those most intimate of moments, did not prevent Chang and Eng from living full lives.  Leaving Siam as eighteen year old adolescents, Chang and Eng were to travel to America under the care and guidance of a Captain Coffin, who saw the commercial possibilities inherent in Chang and Eng's conjoinment and fully intended to exploit them. In America,  people clamored to view Chang and Eng, as they were considered curiosities. They would also travel abroad to Europe, where they were to cause a sensation. Chang and Eng were the international celebrities of their day.<br /><br />When they reached majority, Chang and Eng disassociated themselves from Captain Coffin and his business partners and became their own men. They took charge of their own destinies and later became American citizens, adopted the surname of Bunker,  married  two sisters, Adelaide and Sarah Yates, collectively had twenty-one children, and settled down in North Carolina, where they became slave-owning, gentleman farmers. Still, they did not wholly give up touring and exhibiting themselves for profit. In later, leaner  years, they would do so with some of their children in tow as part of the exhibit.<br /><br />As they grew older, their togetherness seemed to cast a pall over their lives, as Chang was a more phlegmatic sort of personality, while Eng was much more contemplative in nature. Moreover, Chang took to heavy drinking, and though Eng abhorred it, there was little he could do about it. He was forced, therefore,  to suffer the consequential effects and indignities of Chang's drinking. These personal differences would cause them both to mull over the possibility of separation. There was, however, little medical support for such, except in the event of life or death, as surgical procedures were still quite primitive in those days.<br /><br />Chang and Eng would die in their early sixties. Chang died first, while Eng, who was otherwise healthy, would die within hours, possibly from  fright and shock at being tethered to the lifeless body of his brother. As they were together in life, so were they together in death. They left behind two grieving widows, a multitude of children and grandchildren, and an unending, world-wide interest in their lives. Never before and never since, has a set of conjoined twins so captured the imagination of the general public more than Chang and Eng, the original  Siamese twins.<br /><br />This is a very well-written, well-researched biographical treatment of the lives of Chang and Eng. Their lives were, indeed, fascinating, and those who enjoy biographies will find much to like about this book. It is also an intriguing look at nineteenth century life in the context of the lives of Chang and Eng. The book also has sixteen pages of  wonderful black and white photographs and illustrations, which will add to the reader's enjoyment of this book.gentleman farmers. Still, they did not wholly give up touring and exhibiting themselves for profit. In later, leaner  years, they would do so with some of their children in tow as part of the exhibit.<br /><br />As they grew older, their togetherness seemed to cast a pall over their lives, as Chang was a more phlegmatic sort of personality, while Eng was much more contemplative in nature. Moreover, Chang took to heavy drinking, and though Eng abhorred it, there was little he could do about it. He was forced, therefore,  to suffer the consequential effects and indignities of Chang's drinking. These personal differences would cause them both to mull over the possibility of separation. There was, however, little medical support for such, except in the event of life or death, as surgical procedures were still quite primitive in those days.<br /><br />Chang and Eng would die in their early sixties. Chang died first, while Eng, who was otherwise healthy, would die within hours, possibly from  fright and shock at being tethered to the lifeless body of his brother. As they were together in life, so were they together in death. They left behind two grieving widows, a multitude of children and grandchildren, and an unending, world-wide interest in their lives. Never before and never since, has a set of conjoined twins so captured the imagination of the general public more than Chang and Eng, the original  Siamese twins.<br /><br />This is a very well-written, well-researched biographical treatment of the lives of Chang and Eng. Their lives were, indeed, fascinating, and those who enjoy biographies will find much to like about this book. It is also an intriguing look at nineteenth century life in the context of the lives of Chang and Eng. The book also has sixteen pages of  wonderful black and white photographs and illustrations, which will add to the reader's enjoyment of this book.	2004-12-31
407522:US	49355567	RA5QQWCXYUVAQ	2710309068	32881808	Tu es si jolie ce soir	Books	5	0	0	N	N	THINGS ARE NOT ALWAYS WHAT THEY SEEM...	This is the French text edition of \\"The Way You Look Tonight\\", a terrific novel of suspense, offering the reader a riveting, page turning read. It is hard to put down, once the reader is in its thrall. Well written in spare, clean prose, it will keep most readers guessing until the very end.<br /><br />The premise is fairly simple. Deborah Robinson, a young woman and mother of an adorable and precocious set of five year old twins, suddenly has the bottom drop out of her world when her husband, Steve, a prosecuting attorney, suddenly disappears without warning. Shortly thereafter, she is stunned to discover that he is suspected of being a serial killer who, for the past eight years, has been killing young women fitting a description that matches hers.<br /><br />Delving into her husband's past, she uncovers information of which she was previously unaware, which causes her to question just what her husband may really have been hiding. Yet, despite all that she discovers, she believes steadfastedly that her husband is not what he is suspected of being.<br /><br />At the same time that this is going on, the man who had fifteen years earlier been convicted of brutally beating and raping Steve's sister, Emily, causing her to be institutionalized, is released from prison and believed to be in the area seeking revenge. Does this also have something to do with Steve's disappearance?<br /><br />Things are not always what they seem, as the reader will discover. There are enough plausible twists and turns in this novel of suspense to satisfy even the most exacting and demanding of readers. This is a gripping read from beginning to end and one of the best of its genre.	2004-12-30
408017:US	49355567	R9CT80EVOB708	2710324393	225363488	Six de coeur	Books	5	0	0	N	N	THE SIX OF HEARTS...	This is the French text edition of the novel, \\"In the Event of My Death\\". If you are a reader who enjoys novels of suspense, then surely you will find this one to be a rip-roaring good read. There are enough red herrings, enough twists and turns, to keep one guessing until the very end. So, hang on to your seat and enjoy the ride!<br /><br />The premise here is simple. Thirteen years ago, six teenage girls who had formed a secret club called the Six of Hearts, decide to let loose, drink, and dabble in a psuedo satanic ritual in a deserted farmhouse in Wheeling, West Virginia. Before the night is over, one of them ends up dead. The surviving five swear to a pact of secrecy to never reveal what really happened.<br /><br />Thirteen years later, one of them dies a violent death at the hand of an unknown person who leaves behind a clue that those who were members of the Six of Hearts club are at risk. Laurel Damron, a flower shop owner and one of the club members, begins to receive chilling mementos which can only mean one thing: that she, too, is marked for death. One by one, all the remaining club members claim to have received frightening mail which lead them all to the same conclusion as Laurel.<br /><br />Who will be next, and who is responsible for this? That is a question upon which the reader may well ponder, as the reader sifts through the byzantine twists in the plot. Gripping and absorbing, this novel is sure to hold the reader in suspense until the very end.	2004-12-30
408035:US	49355567	RZNJNOCTE7LNN	B0006BLV1A	651296590	Cold Comfort Farm	Books	5	0	0	N	N	BRILLIANT AND HILARIOUS PARODY...	Published in 1932, this novel is a hysterically funny, tongue in cheek parody of the heavy handed, gloomy novels of some early twentieth century English writers who had previously been so popular. Tremendously successful when first published, \\"Cold Comfort Farm\\" caused quite a stir in its time.<br /><br />The novel starts out innocuously enough, when well-educated Flora Poste finds herself orphaned at the age of twenty. Discovering that her father was not the wealthy man she believed him to be, she is resigned to the fate of having to live on a hundred pounds a year. Opting to live with relatives, rather than earn her bread, she seeks out a most unlikely set of relations, the odd Starkadder family who live in Howling, Sussex.<br /><br />Therein begins what is certainly one of the funniest novels ever written. When Flora arrives in Howling, she meets her odd relatives, who live in neglected, ramshackle \\"Cold Comfort Farm\\", where they still wash the dishes with twigs, and have cows named Graceless, Pointless, Feckless, and Aimless. Headed by a seventy nine year old matriarch, Flora's aunt, Ada Doom Starkadder, who has not been right in the head since she \\"saw something nasty happen in the woodshed\\" nearly seventy years ago, they are a motley and strange crew indeed. Confronted with their dismal and gloomy existence, Flora sets about trying to put things to right.<br /><br />Peppered with eccentric, memorable characters, this book will take the reader on a journey not easily forgotten. It is one that is sure to make the reader revisit this novel yet again, like an old friend who is missed too soon.	2004-12-30
408037:US	49355567	R1L9I31GH07SUC	0525945121	293422350	Chang and Eng: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	JUST WE TWO...	This is an ambitious and intriguing debut novel, which is based upon conjoined twins, Chang and Eng, who were born in Siam during the nineteenth century. It is through them that the term \\"Siamese Twins\\" entered the vernacular. Here, the author takes known facts about these famous twins and weaves an expertly woven story about their lives, while attempting to individualize them, giving each of them their own distinct and unique personality.<br /><br />The author tells the story of the conjoined twins through the first person narration of Eng. Born in 1811 in a house boat on the Mekong River in Siam, which is now known as Thailand, Chang and Eng entered the world linked together at the chest by a fleshy band of cartilage. It would be this short band of flesh that would forever bind them together, ensuring that they would never have a truly private moment. For their entire lives, they would be bound to each other, and the two would be forced to live as one.<br /><br />The author explores their private and often strange lives, which the reader views through Eng's eyes. It is through his intimate thoughts that the reader envisions how the twins may have possibly viewed their own lives. The reader follows the path that their lives took, from their poverty stricken childhood on the Mekong River to their presentation to the King of Siam. It then shows how, as adolescents, they came to arrive in America, where they were displayed as oddities. Eventually, they became an international sensation, becoming nineteenth century celebrities.<br /><br />Amazingly, they went on to marry two sisters, Adelaide and Sarah, with whom they fathered a total of twenty-one children. Chang and Eng set up house in North Carolina, where they raised their family. Still, this book is not so much about the factual portion of their lives, but rather, about the thoughts of Eng, as he and Chang pass through life together. It is a very intimate, insightful look at their lives and, in particular, the longings of Eng to experience life as most do, as one and not as two.<br /><br />This is a well-written and delicately nuanced work of historical fiction that is highly imaginative. Instead of having the reader remain on the outside of the lives of Chang and Eng, looking in, the author manages to take the reader into their lives, having the reader look out onto the world from the perspective of Eng. Through Eng, the reader sees the twins as having two very distinct and unique personalities and realizes the angst that they must have experienced in never being able to have a truly private moment. At times, Chang and Eng appear to have had a love-hate relationship. This is a poignant and haunting look at these two individuals, who were, by necessity, constrained to live as one.<br /><br />For those who are intrigued by the lives of Chang and Eng, but would prefer a purely biographical treatment, \\"The Two\\" by Irving Wallace and Amy Wallace is excellent and highly recommended.gings of Eng to experience life as most do, as one and not as two.<br /><br />This is a well-written and delicately nuanced work of historical fiction that is highly imaginative. Instead of having the reader remain on the outside of the lives of Chang and Eng, looking in, the author manages to take the reader into their lives, having the reader look out onto the world from the perspective of Eng. Through Eng, the reader sees the twins as having two very distinct and unique personalities and realizes the angst that they must have experienced in never being able to have a truly private moment. At times, Chang and Eng appear to have had a love-hate relationship. This is a poignant and haunting look at these two individuals, who were, by necessity, constrained to live as one.<br /><br />For those who are intrigued by the lives of Chang and Eng, but would prefer a purely biographical treatment, \\"The Two\\" by Irving Wallace and Amy Wallace is excellent and highly recommended.	2004-12-30
408283:US	49355567	R2HIP9PT6KJIAD	271032525X	598424518	Ne ferme pas les yeux	Books	5	0	0	N	N	DON'T EVEN BLINK...	This French text edition of the novel, \\"Don't Close Your Eyes\\", is yet another well written, page turning, suspenseful read by Carlene Thompson. As far as I am concerned, Ms. Thompson is the maven for this genre. I have read all of her books to date, and she has yet to miss. This is a definite hit.<br /><br />Here, twenty nine year old veterinarian Natalie St. John, reeling from a broken heart, returns to her childhood home in hopes of finding solace. On the heels of her arrival, an old time friend is cruelly murdered, and Natalie is thrust into a situation for which she did not bargain.<br /><br />As the plot thickens, so does the danger to Natalie, as people she knows meet violent deaths. The killer remains at large and seems to want to include Natalie among the dearly departed. Consequently, Natalie is thrust into the vortex of the investigation, which is spearheaded by an attractive and available sheriff.<br /><br />Who is the killer? That is the question that the reader will enjoy trying to answer, given the twists and turns in the book.	2004-12-30
408436:US	49355567	R35P651ILCNPRO	2070417948	732694604	Jeune Fille a La Perle (Folio) (French Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A STUNNING WORK OF HISTORICAL FICTION...	This gifted author weaves a mesmerizing tale around Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer's most famous painting, creating an incandescent and luminous work of her own. His painting is a simple, though enigmatic, portrait of a girl with a pearl earring, about which little is known. The author, however, a born storyteller, creates a living, breathing story around it, using a singular, first person narrative. Told in spare, elegant prose, the author leaps into literary renown with this book.<br /><br />The events in the book are viewed through the eyes of Griet, a sixteen year old Dutch girl, whose changed family circumstances force her into taking a position as a maid in the home of a renowned painter, the taciturn Johannes Vermeer. There, the painter resides with his tempestuous wife, Catharina, their brood of unruly children, his commanding and shrewd mother-in-law, Maria Thins, and their loyal housekeeper and cook, Tanneke. The author lovingly details seventeenth century life in the Dutch city of Delft. It is here that Griet's story unfolds.<br /><br />Sensitive and perceptive, Griet is attuned to the under currents in the Vermeer household and, at first, takes care not to draw attention to herself. Still, she, the daughter of a tile painter, is curious about Vermeer's artistry and is drawn to his work and his methods. Vermeer, sensing a kindred artistic spirit in Griet, draws her into his world of paint, color, light, and beauty, creating an intimacy of the spirit between the two.<br /><br />Still, Griet, a girl on the brink of becoming a woman, finds herself confused and breathlessly desiring more than she may have. Her longing for more than a communion of the spirit with Vermeer is palpable. It is, therefore, not surprising that the undercurrents in the Vermeer household should come bubbling to the surface and engulf Griet, much to her consternation.<br /><br />This is a stunning literary work that fully realizes the promise that the author showed in her debut novel, \\"The Virgin Blue\\". She is an author that understands the less is often more, and she makes every word count. Deliberate and spare, her prose is lyrical in its simplicity, weaving a tale that will keep the reader spellbound. This is historical fiction at its finest. Bravo!The Virgin Blue\\". She is an author that understands the less is often more, and she makes every word count. Deliberate and spare, her prose is lyrical in its simplicity, weaving a tale that will keep the reader spellbound. This is historical fiction at its finest. Bravo!	2004-12-29
408438:US	49355567	RJR4KU9ICCZ1W	0609810235	389133637	Royal Road to Fotheringhay: The Story of Mary, Queen of Scots	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A QUEEN WHO RULED WITH HER HEART AND LOST HER HEAD...	This is a wonderful, captivating work of historical fiction. Weaving a spellbinding tale out of a tapestry of actual events, the author recounts the tragic and dramatic tale of Mary Stuart, Queen of Scots.<br /><br />Born in Scotland, Mary, whose father, the King of Scotland, died when she was very young, was an only child. Her father's death left her mother, Marie De Guise of France, to rule as Regent in Scotland for their daughter. A wily woman, Marie saw only danger on the horizon for Mary, if Mary remained in Scotland. So, she had Mary betrothed to Francois, the Dauphin of France, and sent her at a very young age to live in the French Court.<br /><br />A happy, pleasing, and bonnie child, Mary matured into a beautiful young woman and eventually married the Dauphin. After the unexpected death of the King, she and Francois went on to reign as King and Queen of France. Alas, her happiness was short lived, as Francois was sickly and in poor health. After his premature death, there was no place for Mary in the court of her brother-in-law, Charles, the succeeding French King, thanks to the machinations of her evil mother-in-law, Catherine D'Medici.<br /><br />Mary then did the only thing left to do. She set sail for Scotland under the protection of border lord, James Hepburn, the Earl of Bothwell, to reclaim her kingdom as its anointed Queen. Her mother, Marie De Guise, now dead, the Catholic Mary was faced with reclaiming a Protestant kingdom that she had not seen for many years, a kingdom over which her half brother, the illegitimate and Protestant James, meant to rule himself, irrespective of his illegitimate birth.<br /><br />Little did Mary know of the travails that would await her. A quarrelsome group of lords and nobles, whose perfidy, deceit, and ruthless jockeying for power knew no bounds, would plague her brief reign. They would plot against her with her Protestant cousin in England, Elizabeth I, a Queen who ruled with her head and not with her heart. Mary's half brother, James, whose naked ambition was to wear the crown himself, was determined that Mary would be Queen in name only. He would stop at nothing to secure that which he felt was his by right, if not by birth. John Knox, a fire and brimstone religious fanatic, who held Scotland in his Calvinist thrall, denounced the Catholic Mary at every opportunity, proclaiming her a wanton and rebuffing her overtures and requests for religious tolerance. This is what awaited Mary in Scotland, a harsh and most inhospitable land.<br /><br />This woman, who would be Queen, eventually decided to marry again and made the greatest mistake of all in electing to marry the young and dissolute Lord Henry Darnley, an English Catholic. Though royal by birth, he would eventually bring nothing but shame upon her, plotting against her and those loyal to her. Darnley was the catalyst for some of the greatest scandals in the history of Scotland. Notwithstanding Darnley's perfidy, Mary did her duty and, having been delivered of an infant son fathered by Darnley, provided Scotland with an heir to the throne. She eventually became nothing more than a pawn in the ambitions of men, pitting Mary's half brother, James, now the Earl of Moray, against James, the Earl of Bothwell, one of Darnley's alleged murderers and Mary's seducer. It would be a fight to the finish.<br /><br />With Darnley having died under mysterious circumstances and her passions now aroused, Mary married the Earl of Bothwell, much to the outrage of all of Scotland, and together incurred the enmity of many of the lords and nobles. This would lead to Bothwell's exile and captivity in Denmark, while Mary would flee to England, hoping to meet with Elizabeth and obtain her help in securing her kingdom. Instead, she would remain her cousin Elizabeth's captive for twenty years, being moved from castle to castle, as Mary's Catholic supporters plotted over the years to restore her kingdom to her.<br /><br />Finally, these plots included the throne of England, and Elizabeth could no longer close her eyes to the threat that her still living cousin, Mary, an anointed Catholic Queen with a claim to the throne of Protestant England, presented. For her alleged treason, Mary would be tried, and the castle at Fotheringay would be the end of the line for her in the land in which twenty years earlier she had unwisely sought succor.<br /><br />This is a spellbinding story, told with an infusion of historical detail. Those interested in the story of Mary, Queen of Scots, will, undoubtedly, enjoy this work of historical fiction. It is a fascinating tale of a historical figure whose life remains an intriguing enigma even today.d the throne of England, and Elizabeth could no longer close her eyes to the threat that her still living cousin, Mary, an anointed Catholic Queen with a claim to the throne of Protestant England, presented. For her alleged treason, Mary would be tried, and the castle at Fotheringay would be the end of the line for her in the land in which twenty years earlier she had unwisely sought succor.<br /><br />This is a spellbinding story, told with an infusion of historical detail. Those interested in the story of Mary, Queen of Scots, will, undoubtedly, enjoy this work of historical fiction. It is a fascinating tale of a historical figure whose life remains an intriguing enigma even today.	2004-12-29
408924:US	49355567	R32OAVHV1ZAD9K	0641577567	667500496	Virgin Blue	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A TRIUMPHANT DEBUT NOVEL...	This is a beautifully written debut novel. Exquisite in its imagery and clarity of language, the author tells two parallel tales. One takes place in sixteenth century France, during the Protestant reformation and religious persecution of the Huguenots (Protestants). The other takes place in present day France. There are historical ties that bind these two stories, as well as a haunting familial legacy that reaches out across time to makes itself felt in the present.<br /><br />The sixteenth century tale is based around a young woman, Isabelle du Moulin, who marries a boorish lout named Etienne Tournier, the oldest son of one of the more prominent families in their provincial town in France. She is a young woman upon whom the Virgin Mary made a great impression, when she was but a girl. The Tourniers, however, are believers of the new, harsh, Calvinist faith, and so Isabelle must also fully subscribe to it, if she is to survive in her husbands family and in the town in which she lives. When the St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre occurs, in which Huguenots are slain without mercy throughout all of France, Isabelle is forced to flee to safety with what remains of her husband's family. Unhappy in her marriage, she goes on to have an event occur in her life that is so tragic that her pain and sorrow is made palpable in the present, touching one of her ancestors, Ella Turner.<br /><br />Of course, the parallel tale focuses around Ella Turner, a young, married American woman, who moves to France with her husband Rick, in order to advance his career. Ella agrees to the move, because it will take her to the region in France from which she knows her family originated. Once in France, Emma has some difficulty acclimating to life in the small provincial town to which they have moved, as well as to its denizens. Ella also finds herself having inexplicable nightmares and begins to feel herself somewhat alienated from her husband.  To occupy her time, she  begins a quest to discover more about her French ancestry. As Ella's story unfolds, alternating with the parallel story of Isabelle, commonalities between the past and present begin to emerge. These parallel stories then converge in a stunning denouement to resolve a tragedy of the past in the present.<br /><br />I absolutely loved this book, as it covered many of the genres that I enjoy. The author combines historical fiction, suspense, romance, and touch of the supernatural all in one beautifully realized novel. The author writes with the heart of a poet and the soul of a great storyteller, one whose prose is delicately nuanced as she weaves gossamer threads of a tale well told. This is simply a superlative and stunning debut novel that will keep the reader turning its pages until the very last. Bravo!ore about her French ancestry. As Ella's story unfolds, alternating with the parallel story of Isabelle, commonalities between the past and present begin to emerge. These parallel stories then converge in a stunning denouement to resolve a tragedy of the past in the present.<br /><br />I absolutely loved this book, as it covered many of the genres that I enjoy. The author combines historical fiction, suspense, romance, and touch of the supernatural all in one beautifully realized novel. The author writes with the heart of a poet and the soul of a great storyteller, one whose prose is delicately nuanced as she weaves gossamer threads of a tale well told. This is simply a superlative and stunning debut novel that will keep the reader turning its pages until the very last. Bravo!	2004-12-29
410806:US	49355567	R3LH3WF72TPHR6	0679743626	707805727	O Pioneers! (Vintage Classics)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	THE LAND TO WHICH WE BELONG...	In this, the author's second published work, the author writes about that which she knew best, early pioneer life in Nebraska, the place to which she and her family moved in 1883 when she was a mere slip of a girl. She eventually attended the University of Nebraska, graduating in 1895, at a time when most girls did no such thing.<br /><br />In this work, the author was on very sure footing. Her clear, straightforward prose lends itself capably to the story of early pioneers who went to Nebraska and set down roots, weathering the exigencies that often plagued a newcomer to a particular region. It is a surprisingly unsentimental look at pioneer life.<br /><br />This thematically complex, but simply written story focuses primarily on Alexandra Bergson,  the intelligent, independent, resourceful, and strong-willed daughter of pioneer, John Bergson.  Upon his death he did what was then the nearly unthinkable. He left his land in the hands of his oldest child, his daughter, Alexandra, rather than in those of his sons, recognizing in his daughter those qualities that would ensure that his land would prosper under her stewardship.<br /><br />This then is the story of not only Alexandra but of that land and those whose sustenance depended upon its fruitfulness. The reader follows the Bergson clan as they live their lives and interact with their neighbors. Under Alexandra's skillful management, the Bergson farm prospers. As the farm prospers, so does its environs. The area becomes a bustling center of activity with more and more settlers developing the land around that of the Bergsons.<br /><br />Thematically, the book explores the vicissitudes of life, as well as its life-affirming moments. As in all lives, the characters in this book experience moments of high drama and great tragedy, as well as memorable moments of love and hate. All this is grounded within the context of pioneer life, with all its hardships and privations, as well as its occasional abundance. The author skillfully re-creates a melting pot of the many nationalities that cultivated the land known as Nebraska.<br /><br />This is a book that those who like reading about pioneer life will certainly enjoy, as will those who simply like a well-written book with a tale to tell.  This classic novel was also adapted for a Hallmark Hall of Fame film, starring Jessica Lange in the role of Alexandra Bergson.killfully re-creates a melting pot of the many nationalities that cultivated the land known as Nebraska.<br /><br />This is a book that those who like reading about pioneer life will certainly enjoy, as will those who simply like a well-written book with a tale to tell.  This classic novel was also adapted for a Hallmark Hall of Fame film, starring Jessica Lange in the role of Alexandra Bergson.	2004-12-28
410855:US	49355567	R2AVT1X34BGWMQ	0743221834	505763827	Food and Loathing: A Life Measured Out in Calories	Books	3	6	17	N	Y	LESS TO DO WITH FOOD...MORE TO DO WITH LOATHING...	This is a book that gets off to a promising start, as the author discusses her lifelong compulsion to over-indulge with respect to food and the self-loathing that accompanied her compulsion. While the author writes well,  the book begins to head south as the author's self-absorption begins to cast a pall. She is a woman whose weight begins to dominate her every thought and her entire life. Who would have thought that one hundred and seventy pounds of avoirdupois on a five foot two frame would be so tragic for someone?<br /><br />When the author is diagnosed with a mental disorder that simply requires her to medicate herself, the reader is relieved that the author's ordeal is over, as is that of the reader. While the author writes with a certain self-deprecating sense of humor, it is not enough to disguise the self-absorption throughout. Therein lies her true gluttony.	2004-12-28
410963:US	49355567	R3JWYC62N458GY	1593082029	584095688	My Antonia (Barnes & Noble Classics)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A TRUE AMERICAN CLASSIC...	I first read this book when I was in junior high school. I admit that, at the time, I did not appreciate the strengths of the book and the quality of its writing. I am quite glad that I decided to give it another chance, as I now understand why it is considered to be a classic in literature. It is simply a beautifully written book, covering many of the themes that one stumbles across in life and coalescing them into a work of extraordinary breadth.<br /><br />The book is the story of two young people, Jim Burden and Antonia Shimerda. They meet for the first time when Jim is ten years old and Antonia is fourteen. Recently orphaned, Jim has moved to the Great Prairie to live with his grandparents in Nebraska. Antonia, on the other hand, has been wrenched from her homeland in Bohemia, emigrating with her parents to the United States and finding herself in Nebraska. Jim and Antonia's chance encounter on a train sets the stage for the forging of a friendship and unconditional love that time will not diminish.<br /><br />The book relates the harshness of immigrant life through the eyes of Jim, who narrates the events contained in the book. There is a relentless stoicism about the book, which is written in spare, clear prose. With intense imagery and descriptive exactitude, late nineteenth century Nebraska comes to life. It also relates the paths that each of the characters choose to follow, as well as the vicissitudes of life that mold and shape them in  ways that no one would have imagined.<br /><br />The focus of the book, which is also a coming of age tale, seems to be on the female characters and their strengths. Consequently, the book has a faintly feminist undercurrent to it, as all the women in it seem to be survivors, despite the hardships that they encounter. This is, without a doubt, a life affirming book, wrought with great feeling and a decided sense of time and place. Yet, despite its poignancy, the book is surprisingly unsentimental and straightforward. It is a testament to the author's literary talent that this book has emerged as a timeless classic. Bravo!s a testament to the author's literary talent that this book has emerged as a timeless classic. Bravo!	2004-12-28
411226:US	49355567	R2XCT5DTAJOER0	0803273045	749783263	The Expedition of the Donner Party and Its Tragic Fate	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	A DONNER PARTY SURVIVOR SPEAKS OUT...	The author of this book, which was first published in 1911, was a survivor of the Donner Party, that hapless group of eighty-seven pioneers who in 1846, while navigating a supposedly new route to California, found themselves trapped high in the Sierra Mountains. Immobilized by snow and frigid weather, little more than half, mostly women and children, of this hardy band of westward-ho pioneers would survive the deprivation and great human suffering. One of those survivors  was Eliza P. Donner, then a child just under four years of age. She would live on, hearing of lurid tales of cannibalism, which were to mar her survival.<br /><br />A little less than half of this book is devoted to the doomed expedition itself. Of course, even though the author was one of its survivors, given her tender age, most of  the information about the expedition is based upon the recollections of other survivors, including those of her older sisters. She paints a fairly intimate and poignant portrait of her family, but the account of their tragic journey seems to be subjectively sanitized, as if to offset the grisly details that had become an integral part of the Donner Party legend.  The details of the Donner Party tragedy are best told by historian, George Stewart, in his book, \\"Ordeal by Hunger.\\"<br /><br />Still, this book provides an interesting look at the aftermath of the Donner Party debacle. It looks at early pioneer life in California, through the author's eyes, recounting what became of her and her surviving sisters after their incredible rescue. This makes for an eye-opening, first hand account of what life was actually like in those early pioneering days. The author, an apparently hearty soul,  would go on to have quite a full and interesting life.  Written in an easy, conversational tone, this book will capture the interest of those who enjoy memoirs, books on pioneer life, or books on the Donner Party.	2004-12-27
411754:US	49355567	R1Y1JNODPYD5WO	0374200084	459116076	The Madonna of Excelsior: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	IT IS NOT SO BLACK AND WHITE...	South African writer Zakes Mda takes the notorious \\"Immorality Act\\" of South Africa's apartheid history, as well as a true event in South African history, which flowed from a violation of this law, and loosely weaves a fictionalized tale that will keep the reader turning the pages of this thematically complex book.<br /><br />The \\"Immorality Act\\" was legislated to prevent miscegenation and ensure the purity of the races. In 1971, in the Orange Free State of South Africa, nineteen of its citizens, both white and black, were arrested for violating this law. The fictionalization of this event serves to contrast the old Afrikaner minority dominated South Africa in which apartheid was the law, and the new South Africa in which blacks are now the ruling majority. The author takes the reader through the transition from the old to the new South Africa through the fictionalization of the then notorious violation of the \\"Immorality Act\\".<br /><br />Niki, one of the main protagonists, is an under-educated black woman living in white Afrikaner dominated South Africa in the township of Excelsior. She lives a life that is regulated by  apartheid. She lives in substandard housing, works for Afrikaners for subsistence wages, and is at the beck and call of her employer.  Moreover, she is easy prey for those Afrikaners who, despite the \\"Immorality Act\\",  would forcibly subject her sexually. When her employer's wife forces her to submit to a humiliating invasion of her privacy, Niki fights back the only way she knows how, through the sexual enslavement of this woman's husband, her employer.<br /><br />When she, along with a number of other native black women give birth to children that are clearly of mixed racial parentage, trouble ensues, and arrests under the \\"Immorality Act\\"  are made of both male Afrikaners and native black women, of whom Niki is one, causing great scandal in the township. This incident is to leave a great mark on Niki's family, as it ensures the demise of her relationship with her husband, Pule, a miner whose irregular visits home, coupled with bouts of domestic violence,  contribute to their estrangement.  It affects her son, Viliki, who grows up rebellious, a political activist seeking to wrest political control of South Africa from the Afrikaners. It also affects Popi, the beautiful child of her illicit tryst with her employer, who forever seems to be in denial of her mixed race heritage. The book is not only about Niki's travails in white Afrikaner dominated South Africa under apartheid, it is also about Viliki's and Popi's coming of age in a post-apartheid South Africa in transition.<br /><br />As the old Afrikaner rule in South Africa gives way to the new black majority rule in South Africa, one begins to realize that the issue is not so black and white. It boils down to power, who has it, and who has not.  This is ultimately a story about those who are just trying to live their lives as best they can, as South Africa tries to reconcile its past with its present, while looking forward towards a more hopeful future.ationship with her husband, Pule, a miner whose irregular visits home, coupled with bouts of domestic violence,  contribute to their estrangement.  It affects her son, Viliki, who grows up rebellious, a political activist seeking to wrest political control of South Africa from the Afrikaners. It also affects Popi, the beautiful child of her illicit tryst with her employer, who forever seems to be in denial of her mixed race heritage. The book is not only about Niki's travails in white Afrikaner dominated South Africa under apartheid, it is also about Viliki's and Popi's coming of age in a post-apartheid South Africa in transition.<br /><br />As the old Afrikaner rule in South Africa gives way to the new black majority rule in South Africa, one begins to realize that the issue is not so black and white. It boils down to power, who has it, and who has not.  This is ultimately a story about those who are just trying to live their lives as best they can, as South Africa tries to reconcile its past with its present, while looking forward towards a more hopeful future.	2004-12-27
415493:US	49355567	R1VF5M13ZGNUG6	0439086507	350221871	Within Reach: My Everest Story	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A TEEN TAKES ON EVEREST...	This is a terrific book for teens, young adults, and, yes, adults about a Rhode Island teenager, Mark Pfetzer, who makes his dreams come true. The book is written as if it were a personal journal, and in it Mark takes the reader on a journey into his young life. He shares with the reader how his interest in climbing developed, as well as his early climbing experiences.<br /><br />Mark, mature in many ways beyond his years, is not your typical teenager. Clean cut, intelligent, fit, and not given to peer pressure, he is a bit of a loner with a dash of entrepreneurial flair. As his climbing experience increases, so does his desire for snow capped peaks. This desire motivates him to get sponsors for his world wide travels that take him to the vast mountainous regions around the globe. Mind you, he begins his world wide travels, unaccompanied by his parents, at the ripe old age of thirteen.<br /><br />While one may question the wisdom of letting someone so young travel around the world to do high altitude climbing, it does not diminish the pleasure one derives from reading about a young person who derives such joy from his travels and climbing. While at times Mark seems a little full of himself, one must remember that, notwithstanding his achievements, he is still a teenager, and, like most teenagers, he has his moments.<br /><br />Still, his chronicle makes for a very interesting read. His endeavors on high altitude peaks, including Everest, are noteworthy, notwithstanding that he climbed with guided expeditions. While towards the end of his journal he may appear to be suffering from trophy mountain madness, it does not diminish the palpable love of climbing that permeates the pages of the book.<br /><br />Mark is, without a doubt, a son of which any parent would be proud. I am sure that he will continue to live his life to the fullest. I look forward to reading about any future adventures that he may commit to paper. Dream on, Mark, and may all your dreams come true.e true.  <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-12-22
415692:US	49355567	R3VFWCA740CHTD	0739406612	825743722	In the Event of My Death	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	MOVE OVER MARY HIGGINS CLARK...THE HEIR APPARENT IS HERE...	If you are a reader who enjoys novels of suspense, then surely you will find this one to be a rip-roaring good read. There are enough red herrings, enough twists and turns, to keep one guessing until the very end. So, hang on to your seat and enjoy the ride!<br /><br />The premise here is simple. Thirteen years ago, six teenage girls who had formed a secret club called the Six of Hearts, decide to let loose, drink, and dabble in a psuedo satanic ritual in a deserted farmhouse in Wheeling, West Virginia. Before the night is over, one of them ends up dead. The surviving five swear to a pact of secrecy to never reveal what really happened.<br /><br />Thirteen years later, one of them dies a violent death at the hand of an unknown person who leaves behind a clue that those who were members of the Six of Hearts club are at risk. Laurel Damron, a flower shop owner and one of the club members, begins to receive chilling mementos which can only mean one thing: that she, too, is marked for death. One by one, all the remaining club members claim to have received frightening mail which lead them all to the same conclusion as Laurel.<br /><br />Who will be next, and who is responsible for this? That is a question upon which the reader may well ponder, as the reader sifts through the byzantine twists in the plot. Gripping and absorbing, this novel is sure to hold the reader in suspense until the very end.	2004-12-22
415890:US	49355567	RJNFP2J09K3MS	0440194962	878164438	Without a Trace	Books	5	5	5	N	N	HEARTWRENCHING AND COMPELLING...	Harvard University professor Susan Selky, separated from her husband, Graham, lets her six year old son, Alex, walk the several blocks to his school all by himself. One morning she says good bye to him, not realizing until later in the day, when he does not return home after school, that he simply never made it to school that morning. He had simply disappeared without a trace.<br /><br />The police are notified and an immediate manhunt ensues for the missing boy. The story follows the impact that the boy's disappearance has on Susan and Graham, as well as the reaction of those closest to them and of the public at large. It explores their relationship, as well as their relationship with others in the context of the tragedy that has befallen them. You definitely feel Susan's pain.<br /><br />Sensitively drawn and well-written, the book explores the avenues that Susan travels in her steadfast search for her son. It is a story of hope, loss, and faith, despite seemingly insurmountable odds. What happens is sure to keep the reader on the edge of his or her seat. The author plays on the reader's emotions and keeps the tension taut throughout the story, making for a real pager turner of a book. The suspense is kept up until the very end, where it boils over into a crescendo of a finale. This is, without a doubt, one of the best suspense novels to be found.<br /><br />First published over twenty years ago, this popular book was subsequently released again under the title, \\"Still Missing\\".	2004-12-22
415893:US	49355567	RWN283COFGL76	0739413279	876875971	Don't Close Your Eyes	Books	5	3	3	N	N	THE PLOT THICKENS...	This is yet another well written, page turning, suspenseful read by Carlene Thompson. As far as I am concerned, Ms. Thompson is the maven for this genre. I have read all of her books to date, and she has yet to miss. This is a definite hit.<br /><br />Here, twenty nine year old veterinarian Natalie St. John, reeling from a broken heart, returns to her childhood home in hopes of finding solace. On the heels of her arrival, an old time friend is cruelly murdered, and Natalie is thrust into a situation for which she did not bargain.<br /><br />As the plot thickens, so does the danger to Natalie, as people she knows meet violent deaths. The killer remains at large and seems to want to include Natalie among the dearly departed. Consequently, Natalie is thrust into the vortex of the investigation, which is spearheaded by an attractive and available sheriff.<br /><br />Who is the killer? That is the question that the reader will enjoy trying to answer, given the twists and turns in the book.	2004-12-22
416901:US	49355567	R375GHF4SXTC1Y	0800785029	393857282	The Hiding Place	Books	5	0	0	N	N	THE HEROISM OF A SIMPLE DUTCH FAMILY DURING THE HOLOCAUST...	This is an absolutely extraordinary book. Never have I read a book in which the spiritual beauty of the author so resonated throughout the story. The purity of heart that manifests itself in this inspiring saga of a heroic, Dutch family in Nazi occupied Holland during World War II is stunningly beautiful.<br /><br />This is the true story of the Ten Boom family who, during the Nazi occupation of The Netherlands, upon seeing what was happening to their Jewish neighbors and friends, asked themselves this age old question \\"If not us,...who; if not now,...when?\\" They answered it, ultimately, at great cost.<br /><br />The Ten Booms were devoutly Christian and lived a simple life. The patriarch of the family ran a watch shop that had been in his family for a century. Some of the family members, the author among them, worked there, selling and repairing clocks and watches. They also lived in the house in which the shop was located.<br /><br />When the Nazis occupied their country, the reality of what it meant slowly dawned upon them, as they saw the treatment given to their fellow Dutch citizens of the Jewish faith. Moved by their plight, the author at the age of fifty, together with other members of her family, including their father who was nearly eighty, became active in the Dutch underground.<br /><br />When it became clear to the Ten Booms that Jews were being targeted for deportation and death, they had a false wall constructed in the author's bedroom, thereby creating a secret room. There, they would hide the terrified Jews who were staying with them, in the event of a Nazi raid upon their home.<br /><br />Eventually denounced to the Nazis, the Ten Booms were arrested and their home raided and torn apart by the Gestapo, in their search for the Jews they believed to be hiding there. At the time of the raid, the Ten Boom home was filled to capacity with Jews in hiding. So well concealed was the hidden room that had been created by the erection of the false wall, that these poor, terrified Jews managed to escape detection.<br /><br />The Ten Boom family did not fare so well. It was upon their arrest that they learned first hand of man's inhumanity to man, and their faith was put to a test that they had never dreamt possible. It was faith, however, that sustained the author in what was to be her hour of darkest despair. To find out what happened to the Ten Booms, read this book. It is the story of an incredible family, who had the courage to put their convictions to the test.<br /><br />The reader is sure to be captivated by the goodness and spiritual beauty contained within its pages. The book was also made into a stirring, very moving film of the same name that is well worth watching.these poor, terrified Jews managed to escape detection.<br /><br />The Ten Boom family did not fare so well. It was upon their arrest that they learned first hand of man's inhumanity to man, and their faith was put to a test that they had never dreamt possible. It was faith, however, that sustained the author in what was to be her hour of darkest despair. To find out what happened to the Ten Booms, read this book. It is the story of an incredible family, who had the courage to put their convictions to the test.<br /><br />The reader is sure to be captivated by the goodness and spiritual beauty contained within its pages. The book was also made into a stirring, very moving film of the same name that is well worth watching.	2004-12-21
417081:US	49355567	R7N1ZFVPUGO6U	0739414119	255570129	From The Corner Of His Eye - Large Print Edition	Books	4	1	1	N	N	...AND A CHILD SHALL LEAD THEM...	This book is an interesting melange of genres. It is at once mystical, suspenseful, horror filled, part sci-fi, and tinged with the supernatural. Add to this a little boy with beautiful eyes, who is a child prodigy, gifted beyond his years, and capable of entering parallel universes or realities; a child who can literally walk in the rain without getting wet. Add yet another unusually gifted child prodigy named \\"Angel\\" who was conceived out of a violent rape. Mix in the rapist, who is also a socio-pathic killer, a priest turned cop who is aware of the existence of parallel or alternate realities, because he has the ability to send inanimate objects there, and stir in a woman whose goodness is almost legendary. What do you have? You have a best seller on your hands!<br /><br />The book is a very quick, easy read. You won't want to put it down. The only real criticism is the fact that about twenty five years are crammed into the last dozen pages. It is as if the author had a limit on how long the book could be and had to have it end before it exceeded the limit. Having taken about six hundred pages to get to a certain stage, it was a little jarring to go at warp speed for the last dozen pages. Still, all in all, it is a good read.	2004-12-21
425134:US	49355567	R35DRMKBZS52E6	0671722069	212768920	Farnham's Freehold	Books	3	20	34	N	Y	BEHOLD...THE FUTURE...	This is an entirely plot driven book with one dimensional characters that are, for the most part, unlikable.  The core characters are twentieth century citizens who find their lives forever changed by a nuclear holocaust. The plot itself is a relatively simple one.<br /><br />The main protagonist, Hugh Farnham, is a farsighted, twentieth century guy who builds a bomb shelter and stocks it with the necessities of life so as to be prepared in the event that nuclear war erupts. When it does, he, his wife, Grace, son, Duke,  and daughter, Karen, as well as her friend, Barbara Wells, and Joseph, Hugh's employee, find themselves saved from destruction but hurled by the nuclear blast into a world two thousand years into the future.<br /><br />The future, however,  into which the characters are hurled, is a future in which the world is ruled by dark skinned people. All light skinned people are slaves to their dark skinned masters. Since the Farnhams and Barbara Wells are white, they do not fare too well in this new world order. The only one who comes out on top is Joseph, who happens to be black. He also happens to be the only reasonably likable character in the book.<br /><br />While the future is an interesting one, the novelty of it is undone by the fact that the main characters are so unlikable. Hugh Farnham is nothing more than an insensitive bully and egotist married to a lush, whimsically named Grace. Barbara Wells is a woman who thinks nothing of abusing the hospitality of her hostess, Grace,  by sleeping with her husband, Hugh, shortly after meeting him.<br /><br />As luck would have it, Barbara's friend, Karen, also think that it is perfectly fine that her friend should be sleeping with her father, who just happens to be her mother's husband.  Though,  why Barbara would want to, however, is beyond me. Once in the future, however, Karen, for whatever sick reason, also seems interested in copulating with her father. Meanwhile, her brother, Duke, is nothing more than his drunken  mother's enabler, at odds with his father,  and a secret racist. The only remotely normal person is Joseph, and even he, too, has his moments.<br /><br />One simply does not care about most of the characters. In terms of plot, however, the author is on firmer ground. The future that the author has created provides a lot of food for thought, as he covers many issues. Incest, cannibalism, race role reversals, women as sex toys, the neutering of males, as well as using some humans as breeders, are all interesting, though somewhat controversial, concepts. While touched upon, however, these issues are never fully explored or realized. Consequently, the plot, which is, at times, quite interesting,  finds itself undone by the unlikability factor of its characters.his drunken  mother's enabler, at odds with his father,  and a secret racist. The only remotely normal person is Joseph, and even he, too, has his moments.<br /><br />One simply does not care about most of the characters. In terms of plot, however, the author is on firmer ground. The future that the author has created provides a lot of food for thought, as he covers many issues. Incest, cannibalism, race role reversals, women as sex toys, the neutering of males, as well as using some humans as breeders, are all interesting, though somewhat controversial, concepts. While touched upon, however, these issues are never fully explored or realized. Consequently, the plot, which is, at times, quite interesting,  finds itself undone by the unlikability factor of its characters.	2004-12-13
425615:US	49355567	R344E6C2UZ4IEG	1400063272	927485838	Trump: How to Get Rich	Books	3	40	46	N	Y	THE TITLE IS A MISNOMER...	This book may be about a lot of things, but it is not about getting rich. It is more about being rich. It is also about leadership, a quality of which Donald Trump definitely has in abundance. The book is peppered with little truisms by which The Donald lives  in his business life. Most of them are common sense.<br /><br />All in all, he comes across as a fairly likable, down-to-earth guy with a pretty healthy ego. Definitely, the meek shall not inherit the earth. He has a lot of nice things to say about many of the people with whom he has worked or transacted business. He also has something to say about those people who have crossed him in one way or another, and it ain't pretty.<br /><br />He also has something to say about his hit show \\"The Apprentice\\". He loves that show, and guess what, so do millions of others, including me. He gives a few general tidbits about how the show came into being and a some back stage bits about its first season. Fans of the show will especially enjoy this part of the book.<br /><br />Though the book is weak on substance, it is an easy, breezy, little read that sounds like the Donald Trump one hears on the radio and television. He is simply a guy who is enjoying himself immensely and wants everyone to know it. Moreover, the time is ripe for the book, because whatever one's take on the author might be, The Donald is a hot commodity right now and shy he is not.	2004-12-13
427416:US	49355567	R3C3ME1LMGJUPN	044922855X	461137846	Winter Harvest	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	THE WINTER OF OUR DISCONTENT...	Long renowned for her historical fiction, British author, Norah Lofts, turned her hand at a work of fiction based upon the heartbreaking and tragic story of the Donner Party, a group of nearly ninety individuals who, in 1846, set out for California from Missouri, taking a new route that obliged them to cross the Sierra Mountains.  They were to find themselves trapped high in the Sierra Mountains by a bitter, winter cavalcade of storms and relentless snow. This desperate group of pioneers, who saw their numbers reduced by nearly half, finally resorted to cannibalism in order to survive.  Their tragic story is the inspiration for this book.<br /><br />In this book, the author leaves behind the English countryside where so much of her historical fiction takes place. Ms. Lofts, instead, turns to the American West, where in 1846  a small party of pioneers,  meet up at a lonely outpost, Fort Mason. There, they learn that one of the parties, led by Kevin Furmage, a well to do businessman, is going to try a new route to California, believing that such would shorten the traveling time.  The others are intrigued by the opportunity to shorten their traveling time, and, one by one, they elect to join Mr. Furmage's party of three.<br /><br />Mr. Furmage now finds himself accompanied by four other parties: the Smiths, a family of five now joined by a Mr. Cooper, an invalid, the Warrens, a family of five, the Glennys, a party of three, and that of Madame Jurer, a party of  five.  Together, this motley, rag-tag group intends to break new trail to California through the Sierra Mountains. What they will discover is that this new trail would break them. Beset by desert thirst, Indians, flood waters, loss of their oxen and their food stores, as well as snow storms high in the Sierras, which would leave them caught in its drifts, and bone piercing cold, this disparate group of people would have to resolve their differences and  band together in order to survive.  Their survival, however, would come at a price that they would never have believed that they would be called upon to pay.<br /><br />This is an interesting tale that will engage those who enjoy well-written historical fiction. It is a story that will keep the reader turning the pages. While the book is more plot driven, rather than character driven, a number of the characters are fairly well-developed. Those who like historical fiction will enjoy reading this book., would come at a price that they would never have believed that they would be called upon to pay.<br /><br />This is an interesting tale that will engage those who enjoy well-written historical fiction. It is a story that will keep the reader turning the pages. While the book is more plot driven, rather than character driven, a number of the characters are fairly well-developed. Those who like historical fiction will enjoy reading this book.	2004-12-11
427640:US	49355567	R1MUSREPH8FUY1	B0006AT6W2	184757711	Annapurna: First Conquest of an 8000-meter Peak (26,493 feet)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	MOUNTAINEER PIONEERS...	This book is a romanticized, sanitized account of the 1950 French expedition to the Himalayas by its ostensible leader, Maurice Herzog. It is a book that is reflective of the times in which it was written. Still, it should be a must read for anyone who is interested in high altitude climbing.<br /><br />I first read this book in the early 1960s as a young teenager. I recall being enthralled by it and amazed at the hardships the climbers endured to bring glory to France. In reading it again as an adult, I find myself still enthralled, but more attuned to the fact that it is written in a somewhat self-serving style.<br /><br />The book itself chronicles the attempt by the French to climb an 8,000 meter peak in the Himalayas. They had two alternatives: Dhaulagiri and Annapurna. In those days, the Himalayas were largely uncharted and any topographical maps which existed at the time proved to be largely incorrect. So, the French expedition spent a large portion of their time in reconnaissance. Not only were they there to climb the mountain, they had to find a way to get to it and then map out a route on the unknown terrain to the summit. Ultimately, they chose to climb Annapurna.<br /><br />In reading this book, one must remember that the climb took place without the sophisticated equipment or protective clothing available today. This was before gortex and commercial freeze-dried foods. This climb was made before Nepal or climbing the Himalayas became a major tourist attraction. The conditions for travelers were extremely primitive and difficult under the best of circumstances.<br /><br />When the expedition finally finds a route to Annapurna, the reader almost feels like cheering for them. When they start to climb, one senses that, in comparison to latter day expeditions, they are not so well equipped or savvy about the dangers one can encounter during a high altitude climb or the risks in doing it without supplemental oxygen, as they did. Then one realizes that they were pioneers. They were paving the way for others.<br /><br />The climb to the summit by Maurice Herzog and his partner, Louis Lachenal, is interesting, but it is their harrowing descent and return to civilization which is riveting. The two summiteers begin their descent but run into difficulties. They are fortunate to encounter two of their fellow climbers, Lionel Terray and Gaston Rebuffat, who are contemplating their own summit assault but, instead, choose to aid their comrades in the descent, foregoing their own quest for the summit.<br /><br />The travails which the climbers encounter on the descent would have finished off less hardy souls. Maurice Herzog loses his gloves during the descent and has no spare pair. One of them falls into a crevasse which, believe it or not, turns out to be a good thing. They are caught in an avalanche. They get lost in a storm. They become frostbitten, and two of them are, ultimately, forced to endure amputations.<br /><br />The medical treatment they received by the expedition doctor is unbelievable and almost primitive. Employing treatments for frostbite that have since fallen onto disrepute (excruciatingly painful arterial injections, for example), the doctor is almost frightening, at times. The reader cannot help but feel pity for the suffering the injured climbers endured: maggot ridden flesh, amputations without anaesthesia, and lack of proper medical care for a protracted period of time.<br /><br />The heroics of some of the Sherpas, as on most expeditions, go largely unsung. One must, however, pause to reflect on the fact that as this all took place before airlifts were available, the injured climbers had to be carried. Their exodus back to the frontier took about five weeks. Who carried them down the mountain, over the moraines, on makeshifts bridges over flooded, raging rivers, through dense jungle? Who else but the Sherpas. What thanks did they get? None, as usual.<br /><br />Anyway, when the expedition finally return to France, Maurice Herzog is lauded as a national hero by the French. He becomes the media darling. The other three climbers, as are the rest of those on the expedition, are largely ignored and forgotten. Therein lies the tale. Notwithstanding, however, its idealization, romanticism, and everything is hunky-dory routine, Herzog's book is still a must read for all climbing enthusiasts.o France, Maurice Herzog is lauded as a national hero by the French. He becomes the media darling. The other three climbers, as are the rest of those on the expedition, are largely ignored and forgotten. Therein lies the tale. Notwithstanding, however, its idealization, romanticism, and everything is hunky-dory routine, Herzog's book is still a must read for all climbing enthusiasts.	2004-12-11
464967:US	49355567	R1DQC9WVKQQXDY	B00005WB8D	743528769	Lovers all untrue	Books	4	3	4	N	N	IN REPRESSION MAY LIE MADNESS...	The author, noted for her well-written historical fiction, as well as for her novels of romantic suspense,  writes a somewhat disturbing story about a family that is totally dominated by its patriarch. Set is Victorian England, the book details the life of the Draper family, which consists of Mr. and Mrs. Draper and their two daughters, Marion and Ellen. The book focuses on the older daughter, Marion.<br /><br />Living in the Draper household is nightmarish for the three repressed women within. It is especially so for Marion, as she is an exceptionally intelligent young woman who longs to do something with her life and make her own choices. Unfortunately, she lives in a household that is excessively repressive and rigid, dominated by the controlling Mr. Draper, who makes every decision and demands and exacts absolute obeisance from the women enshrouded in his sphere of control. He allows his daughters very little social congress. Moreover, he does not allow them to have any suitors. He believes that his  daughters' destiny, as is that of his wife, is to serve him until he passes into the next world.<br /><br />Consequently, Marion's quest for a modicum of personal freedom eventually comes into direct conflict with her father over his stifling control. Struggling with her bitterness and desperation, she does the seemingly unthinkable. Then, just when she is seemingly on the brink of escaping his control, this conflict manifests itself in a way that has draconian ramifications for Marion. The path to the unspeakable yawns before her, as she finds her lovers all untrue.<br /><br />This is an interesting work of romantic suspense by Ms. Lofts. Fans of the genre, as well as those who enjoy the work of Victoria Holt, Mary Stewart, and Phyllis Whitney, will like this book. It is a plot driven book that  is, while predictable at times, replete with some twists and turns that will keep the reader turning its pages.	2004-11-06
465431:US	49355567	R3PZ7BKU3YQ9T7	0449229165	287216890	Fox Fire	Books	3	0	0	N	N	ALL THAT GLITTERS IS NOT GOLD...	Written by master storyteller Anya Seton, this book tells the story of Amanda Lawrence, a young, well educated woman, whose family lost their fortune in the stock market crash of 1929. Pursued by the wealthy and cosmopolitan Tim Merrill, a member of the smart set of young people with whom she associates, she throws him over, to his and everyone's surprise, for Jonathan Dartland. Known as \\"Dart\\",  he is a young mining engineer who straddles two worlds, that of his half-breed Apache mother, and that of his Harvard educated father, scion of a prominent New England family.<br /><br />Dart and Amanda marry and move to a rough, depression era mining town called Lodestone. There, she meets a motley cast of characters and discovers what roughing it really means. Both she and Dart have issues that they must overcome or with which they must come to grips before either can find happiness in their marriage.  The hardships of living in poverty in a depression era mining town take their toll on the relationship. Moreover, hidden jealousies at the mine impact on Dart's career.<br /><br />These two lovers then find themselves torn apart by feelings about which neither of them speak. Together, they join with the mine's doctor, the bitter and always drunk Doctor Slater, and go off on an expedition to find a hidden mine. These intrepid explorers seek gold in hopes of attaining their individual dreams. Instead, they are be brought to the brink of death and despair. Yet, Amanda and Dart would find something that they  thought had been beyond their grasp.<br /><br />This novel is not one of Ms. Seton's better efforts. Though some of it is interesting, in terms of depression era life in a mining town, this book did not age particularly well, having a faint anachronistic feel to it. Still, fans of Ms. Seton may find a modicum of enjoyment in reading it.	2004-11-06
465629:US	49355567	R2LTHEBG6FUWWM	0739427547	512398584	The Other Boleyn Girl	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	A FAMILY AFFAIR...	This well-known author of historical fiction has outdone herself with this  rich and absorbing tale of the notorious Boleyn sisters, Anne and Mary. The Tudor court, with all its pomp and intrigue, is seen through the eyes of the beautiful Mary Boleyn, who at the age of fourteen arrives at court and becomes lady-in-waiting to Katherine of Aragon, Queen of England and wife to King Henry VIII.  Although already married to courtier William Carey, Mary captures the heart of King Henry VIII, whose roving eyes land on this innocent young miss.<br /><br />In the eyes of  the grasping and greedy Boleyn family, Mary is but the fatted calf through whom their ambitions, they believe, will become realized. So, they offer her up as a sacrifice to their ruthless ambition. Forced to separate from her husband in order to become the King's mistress, Mary betrays the Queen and becomes mistress to the King, all at the behest of her family. Every step of her affair is choreographed from the wings by her family, with the adept aid of her sly and clever sister, Anne, in the role of chief manipulator.<br /><br />Mary struggles with her own code of honor and personal morality, which is often in conflict with what is mandated by her family. Still, despite her best intentions, Mary disappoints them, as her nature is not the kind that takes well to intrigue and manipulation, as she has sincere feelings of affection for the King, as well as for the Queen. After bearing the King two children, however, she is set aside by a formidable rival, her own sister, Anne, in whom  the Boleyn family now place their hopes and ambitions.<br /><br />This is, first and foremost,  the story of Mary Boleyn, a woman who has generally been reduced to a footnote in history. It is notable, however, that she was the only Boleyn sibling to survive the purges of the Tudor court and who, ultimately, married for love in an age when this was not the norm among those of her class.  It is also the story of Anne Boleyn, her rise and fall, as seen through the eyes of her sister, Mary, with whom Anne was to have a lifelong rivalry.<br /><br />To a  lesser degree, it is also the story of their brother, George, a more remote, though no less interesting, personage. His interjection into the story is necessary, as the author attempts to address the issue of incest that arose at the trial of George and Anne Boleyn. She gives quite an interesting perspective on the issue, weaving it, part and parcel, into the story in an effort to explain his downfall, as well his betrayal by his own wife.<br /><br />Told against the magnificent backdrop of the Tudor Court in all its splendor and majesty, the author weaves a complex tale of greed, ambition, sex, and political machination, as well as unparalleled intrigue, in sixteenth century England. Filled with well-fleshed characters taken right out of the annals of history, the story is one that is sure to delight all those with a love for well-written historical fiction. In particular, fans of beloved author, Jean Plaidy, will enjoy this book.rise and fall, as seen through the eyes of her sister, Mary, with whom Anne was to have a lifelong rivalry.<br /><br />To a  lesser degree, it is also the story of their brother, George, a more remote, though no less interesting, personage. His interjection into the story is necessary, as the author attempts to address the issue of incest that arose at the trial of George and Anne Boleyn. She gives quite an interesting perspective on the issue, weaving it, part and parcel, into the story in an effort to explain his downfall, as well his betrayal by his own wife.<br /><br />Told against the magnificent backdrop of the Tudor Court in all its splendor and majesty, the author weaves a complex tale of greed, ambition, sex, and political machination, as well as unparalleled intrigue, in sixteenth century England. Filled with well-fleshed characters taken right out of the annals of history, the story is one that is sure to delight all those with a love for well-written historical fiction. In particular, fans of beloved author, Jean Plaidy, will enjoy this book.	2004-11-06
470357:US	49355567	R2BJTE9Z0IUW4D	0449228371	28143167	Witch from Sea	Books	4	16	16	N	N	...AND THE SEA WILL TELL...	Philippa Carr is a beloved author known to many by her other pen names, Victoria Holt and Jean Plaidy.  A mistress of romantic suspense, as well as a masterful storyteller, this is the third in a series of about nineteen books by her in which she tracks a family throughout successive generations. One need not start at the beginning, as each one of the books can stand alone.<br /><br />Although somewhat formulaic, these books still have the power to keep the reader turning the pages. This one is set in Elizabethan England and tells the story of a young woman, Linnet Pennlyon, who is on the brink of becoming betrothed to one man, only to find herself forced to marry another, the rakish Colum Casvellyn, when circumstances intervene to change her fate.<br /><br />Her passionate relationship with her husband changes over time, when Linnet discovers some secrets about her husband that she would have been better off not knowing. Moreover, when a stunningly beautiful stranger is cast upon the shores of the their castle, Linnet's life is  never again the same. It is then left to her daughter, Tamsyn, to set to right what once went wrong.<br /><br />Those who love the genre of romantic suspense, as well as fans of Ms. Carr, Mary Stewart, Norah Lofts, and Phyllis Whitney, will, undoubtedly, enjoy this book, as well as the others in this entertaining generational series of books.	2004-11-01
476200:US	49355567	RNKRSINOL3SK1	0449231437	147755090	NEVER CALL IT LOVING	Books	4	1	2	N	N	WHAT ELSE WOULD ONE CALL IT?...	This work of romantic historical fiction is a worthy effort by its noted author. With its title, taken from a poem by Elizabeth Barrett Browning, setting the stage, the book, based upon a true story,  regales the reader with the nineteenth century love affair between  Irish politician Charles Stewart Parnell and Katherine O'Shea, wife of one of his political colleagues.<br /><br />Often referred to as the \\"uncrowned King of Ireland\\" for his passionate partisanship and his advocacy for home rule, Charles Parnell was a man dedicated to the betterment of the lot of the Irish under British rule. He was a fairly single-minded individual, until the day that his path crossed that of beautiful Katherine O'Shea. From the moment that they met, it was love at first sight, and never would they waver from that path of true love, despite the scandal that their affair would one day cause.<br /><br />Locked into a loveless marriage with the dissolute and impecunious Captain William O'Shea, Katherine was the mother of three children when she first met Charles Parnell. These two star-crossed lovers of the prim and proper Victorian age would eventually risk everything to be together. Their private passion would become a public scandal that would make Katherine O'Shea a notorious woman and cause the \\"uncrowned King of Ireland\\" to lose his \\"crown\\" and be deposed from his position of power.<br /><br />This is a well-told story of romantic historical fiction by this notable author. Known for her historical fiction, the author manages to capture the essence of the period, as well as the passion that would cause these two individuals to flout the social mores of their time. Those readers who enjoy romantic historical fiction will enjoy reading about the love affair between Katherine O'Shea and Charles Stewart Parnell that would one day rock the very halls of Parliament.	2004-10-27
480348:US	49355567	R2R74GBWZDLXNQ	0812579259	606443502	The Keep	Books	5	55	58	N	Y	SOMETHING WICKED THIS WAY COMES...	I first read this book over twenty years ago, when it was first released and loved it. I decided that it was time to give it another go around to see if my original opinion of it still held. Well, time has certainly not diminished the power of this book to hold the reader in its thrall. I still love this book, and it remains my favorite book by this author.<br /><br />As far as horror stories go, this one is definitely up with the best of them. The author has written a riveting page turner with this tautly written, inventive tale. The author has taken some vampire folklore and given it a new twist. In the hands of this master of the horror genre, the quintessential battle between good and evil takes on a new dimension.<br /><br />In Romania, deep in the heart of the Transylvanian Alps, lies the Dinu Pass. In April of 1941, a small squadron of German soldiers has been ordered to occupy a small, deserted, five hundred year old castle keep at the Dinu pass. From the beginning, Captain Klaus Woermann senses that there is something unusual about the keep. Looking as if it had just been built and inlaid with brass and nickel crosses in every corridor, crosses that the caretaker for the keep exhorts the Germans not to touch, the keep is an architectural oddity.<br /><br />Soon the games begin, as an unseen force begins murdering his men. Captain Woermann sends a message to the high command. To his dismay, they respond by sending a Nazi squadron of einsatzkommandos under the leadership of SS Major Kaempffer to quell whatever local guerilla activity is, undoubtedly, responsible for the murders. Soon, these death's head troopers begin succumbing to the same fate as their German Army counterparts, and all hell breaks loose.<br /><br />Enter the ailing Dr. Theodor Cuza, a Romanian Jew and former professor at the University of Bucharest. Although suffering from the ravages of scleroderma, he is ordered by the Nazis to the keep, as he is an expert in the history of the region. It is hoped that he will be able to shed some light on the mysterious keep and enable his hosts to defeat their unknown adversary.<br /><br />Accompanied by Magda, his daughter, they find themselves confronted with the cruelty of the Nazis, the unexpected kindness of Captain Woermann, and something from their worst nightmares that has them call into question their deepest beliefs. Then, a mysterious red-headed stranger with piercing blue eyes also appears, and nothing is ever the same again.<br /><br />This is one of the premier horror stories of all time. Bravo!is hoped that he will be able to shed some light on the mysterious keep and enable his hosts to defeat their unknown adversary.<br /><br />Accompanied by Magda, his daughter, they find themselves confronted with the cruelty of the Nazis, the unexpected kindness of Captain Woermann, and something from their worst nightmares that has them call into question their deepest beliefs. Then, a mysterious red-headed stranger with piercing blue eyes also appears, and nothing is ever the same again.<br /><br />This is one of the premier horror stories of all time. Bravo!	2004-10-23
480393:US	49355567	R1EFP3DZZMW29T	0515127299	768283305	Time to Dream (Time Passages)	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	TIME HEALS ALL WOUNDS...	This is a wonderfully entertaining book that will appeal to those who enjoy time travel romance, especially those who are fans of authors Diana Gabaldon and Terri Brisbin. The author is a gifted storyteller, as it is a well-written, well-plotted book, with a cogent storyline and engaging characters.<br /><br />The book revolves around Shelby, a young, rootless woman, who is the caretaker for Winterhill, a historic house in Hannibal, Missouri, 1999. It has a twin, Summervale, that mirrors it in every way. Winterville was built by a Zacharias Logan more than a century ago after his wife, Agatha, cast him and their twin sons from Summervale. Agatha went on to live a totally reclusive life at Summervale, never seeing her husband or sons until the day that she died.<br /><br />When the current owner of Winterville decides to sell the house, rather than restore it, Shelby goes to Summervale, now a dilapidated wreck of a house, to see if she can find any information about its mysterious past. Shelby hopes to use such information in order to generate public interest in both houses, so as to forestall their now seemingly inevitable destruction in the name of progress and development. While rooting around in Summervale, however, Shelby finds herself mysteriously transported to 1871 and in the body of Agatha Logan.<br /><br />While in the past, Shelby seeks to put to right what once went wrong in the Logan household in an effort to ensure the preservation of Winterhill and Summervale in the future. She discovers the secrets that caused such a rift between the handsome Zacharias and the headstrong Agatha. What she did not count on is the undeniable attraction that Zacharias holds for her. Zacharias, at a loss to explain the seemingly inexplicable, though welcome, change in his wife's attitude towards him, finds himself more strongly drawn to Agatha than ever before.<br /><br />What happens to Shelby, Zacharias, and Agatha will keep the reader turning the pages of this thoroughly enjoyable novel. Those who enjoy well-written time travel romance, as well as romantic historical fiction, will be quite entertained by this book.y enjoyable novel. Those who enjoy well-written time travel romance, as well as romantic historical fiction, will be quite entertained by this book.	2004-10-23
493375:US	49355567	R22V2Y44CSCHFF	0451405498	175779309	Anna's Book	Books	5	4	4	N	N	SOME SECRETS ARE WORTH TELLING...	Originally released in the United Kingdom under the title, \\"Asta's book\\", this beautifully written, well-nuanced novel of mystery and suspense seamlessly moves between the past and the present. The past is told through the diaries of a Danish immigrant named Anna, who went to live in Edwardian England with her husband, Rasmus, and two young sons at the turn of the twentieth century. Settling down in East London in 1905, her loveless marriage and loneliness drove Anna to keep a journal of her innermost thoughts and experiences.<br /><br />Though married to a man who spent a great deal of time away from home on business and with whom she seemed to have little in common, she added two more children to her family, daughters, Swanny, her favorite, and Maria, the youngest. Anna's lyrically written journals would chronicle of her life, her struggles as an immigrant, her hopes and dreams, and her adoration of Swanny. They would also tantalizingly hint at a secret that would, ultimately, impact on her daughter, Swanny, later in life.<br /><br />Over seventy years later, those diaries, all forty nine of them, would be discovered and become a publishing sensation and a bestseller. Within its many pages would lie the missing pieces to a turn of the century murder mystery and the leads to the whereabouts of a missing child, as well as tantalizing clues to the puzzling circumstances surrounding Swanny's birth. This information would lie dormant until nearly a century after Anna first put pen to paper, when Anna's granddaughter, Maria's daughter, would review the diaries and discover not only the secret of Swanny's birth, but the identity of that missing child, as well as that of a killer, who nearly a century earlier had butchered two women.<br /><br />This is a book well worth reading, and one that will command the reader's attention until the very last page is turned.	2004-10-11
493392:US	49355567	R1MVQ8MLZH2Y8Y	034532160X	522281100	TO FEAR PAINTED DEVIL	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A TRADITIONAL LITTLE WHODUNIT...	This mystery by Ruth Rendell is one of her earlier efforts. It offers none of the well-drawn psychological portraits for which she would later become known. Instead, she offers the reader a somewhat  traditional whodunit sort of mystery with a tightly woven plot that has a few twists and turns. It makes for a quick, easy read.<br /><br />The plot is simple and direct.  It centers around an unhappily married, wealthy couple, the dictatorial Patrick and the put upon Tamsin, who live in a well to do community. When they have an ill-advised celebration in their home to celebrate Tamsin's birthday, Patrick becomes ill after an accident involving some wasps. Lucky for him, there was a doctor in the house. So, Patrick takes to his bed, none the worse for wear, only to never wake up again. His death is later deemed to be of natural causes.<br /><br />It turns out, however,  that many people had reason to dislike Patrick and wish that he were out of the way: his own wife, her lover, the twin  brother of his mistress, and a local business man that he was in the process of ruining. When gossip begins to churn in their close knit community, rumor has it that Patrick's death was anything but natural.  Who could have done it?<br /><br />That is for the reader to discover. If one is a fan of mysteries and of Ruth Rendell, one will, undoubtedly, enjoy this breezy little mystery and delight in trying to figure out who might be the killer. If one is not, one should probably deduct a star from my rating.	2004-10-11
493872:US	49355567	R1AVG5S5D5W4AI	0736619208	761691187	Going Wrong	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	A TWISTED TALE OF OBSESSIVE LOVE...	British author, Ruth Rendell, is, undoubtedly, the doyenne of  psychological suspense, painting subtle portraits of offbeat, quirky characters that are just a tad off the beaten path. Delving into their psyches, she draws the reader into the slightly skewed world  that they inhabit. Their world then becomes that of the reader, as the author weaves a tapestry of a world that is just a bit awry, deftly letting the reader know that something is wrong, so very wrong.<br /><br />The author does no less in this well-written novel, as she leads the reader into the mind and world of Guy Curran, a handsome, young man from the slums who has led a hard scrabble life, elevating himself from the bowels of poverty by dint of his own hard work and acquiring great wealth in the process . Unfortunately for him, that hard work included some less than reputable dealings in the drug trade, which provided the capital for his now legitimate businesses.<br /><br />For years, Guy has been obsessively in love with Leonora Chisholm, an upper class miss who, after years of being his reluctant childhood sweetheart, has rejected him and all the trappings of wealth and comfort he has to offer her. She prefers to live in genteel poverty with her friends, while acquiring a new boyfriend whom her family and friends like.  Guy is convinced some of his past, shady dealings have come to the attention of someone in Leonora's family or inner circle. He believes that that individual has persuaded Leonora to turn away from him.<br /><br />Now, who would go and do such a thing? Read this well-written book and join Guy in the process of eliminating the likely suspect in this twisted tale of obsessive love.	2004-10-11
494237:US	49355567	R3K6FI41VC4XBZ	0553125842	170383946	King of the Gypsies	Books	4	3	5	N	N	THE LIVES OF GYPSIES IN THE UNITED STATES...	This is an intriguing work of non-fiction about Gypsies and the lives that they lead here in the United States. It focuses on one particular branch of Gypsies and the clan warfare that made their clan the ascendant one and its leader, Tene Bimbo, the self-proclaimed King of the Gypsies.<br /><br />The author presents an unvarnished look at Gypsies. He notes their insularity and clannishness, their lives lived on the fringes of mainstream society, and the classic cons by which they survive. Scorning education, nine-to-five jobs, and anyone outside of their cultural milieu, they are a fascinating group of people with their own complex rules and regulations by which they live.<br /><br />The book also relates an ongoing and violent family feud, between Tene Bimbo's son, Carranza, and his grandson, Steve, Carranza's son. It is a feud that was exacerbated when King Tene Bimbo died and left his legacy to Steve, bypassing Carranza. What was more surprising was that Steve had rejected the traditional Gypsy lifestyle and was trying to lead a more mainstream life, urging others to do the same.<br /><br />This is a well written, well researched book that provides a fascinating glimpse of a group of people and a lifestyle about which little is known. Gypsies definitely live lives that are outside the parameters of accepted norms of behavior. Those who have an interest in other cultures, as well as those with an interest in the true crime genre, will certainly enjoy this book, which has six pages of black and white photographs.	2004-10-10
494452:US	49355567	R1YNXTA4U5K5N5	0452282152	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A SPELLBINDING NOVEL...	This gifted author weaves a mesmerizing tale around  Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer's most famous painting, creating an incandescent and luminous work of her own. His painting is a simple, though enigmatic, portrait of a girl with a pearl earring, about which little is known. The author,  however, a born storyteller, creates a living, breathing story around it, using a singular, first person narrative. Told in spare,  elegant prose, the author leaps into literary renown with this book.<br /><br />The events in the book are viewed through the eyes of Griet, a  sixteen year old  Dutch girl, whose changed family circumstances force her into taking a position as a maid in the home of a renowned painter, the taciturn Johannes Vermeer. There, the painter resides with his tempestuous wife, Catharina, their brood of unruly children, his commanding and shrewd mother-in-law, Maria Thins, and their loyal housekeeper and cook, Tanneke. The author lovingly details seventeenth century life in the Dutch city of Delft. It is here that Griet's story unfolds.<br /><br />Sensitive and perceptive, Griet is attuned to the under currents in the Vermeer household and, at first, takes care not to draw attention to herself. Still, she, the daughter of a tile painter, is curious about Vermeer's artistry and is drawn to his work and his methods. Vermeer, sensing a kindred artistic spirit in Griet, draws her into his world of paint, color, light, and beauty, creating an intimacy of the spirit between the two.<br /><br />Still, Griet, a girl on the brink of becoming a woman, finds herself confused and breathlessly desiring more than she may have. Her longing for more than a communion of the spirit with Vermeer is palpable.  It is, therefore, not surprising that  the undercurrents in the Vermeer household should come bubbling to the surface and engulf Griet, much to her consternation.<br /><br />This is a stunning literary work that fully realizes the promise that the author showed in her debut novel, \\"The Virgin Blue\\". She is an author that understands the less is often more, and she makes every word count. Deliberate and spare, her prose is lyrical in its simplicity, weaving a tale that will keep the reader spellbound. This is historical fiction at its finest. Bravo!ovel, \\"The Virgin Blue\\". She is an author that understands the less is often more, and she makes every word count. Deliberate and spare, her prose is lyrical in its simplicity, weaving a tale that will keep the reader spellbound. This is historical fiction at its finest. Bravo!	2004-10-10
494672:US	49355567	RPZ57RQW3B19U	1586481967	353618533	Seven Days Of Possibilities: One Teacher, 24 Kids, and the Music That Changed Their Lives Forever	Books	5	2	2	N	N	MASTER THE POSSIBILITIES...	This is an exceptionally well-written work of non-fiction. The author, a noted columnist and reporter for the New York Times, distinguishes herself further with this book, which is her first. Writing with all the assurance and polish of a first class investigative reporter, the author, having covered education for five years for the New York Times, is in her element with the subject matter of this book.<br /><br />The book focuses on Johanna Grussner, a young Finnish woman, whose love for music took her from her native Aland Islands, an archipelago in the Baltic Sea located between the coasts of Finland and Sweden, to the United States, ultimately landing her in New York City. While furthering her quest to become a professional jazz singer, happenstance found her working as a music teacher in the Bronx at P.S. 86. There, in an inner city  school that was run like a tight ship by its principal, a man who cared deeply for the school in his own rigid, uncompromising way,  she was to defy all odds and make an impact that many will remember for years to come.<br /><br />Ms. Grussner would demonstrate to all what a determined, though idealistic, person can do to bring joy into the lives of children who may have their options for such limited by their own personal circumstances, as well as by a society that looks to pigeonhole students as if one size does, indeed, fit all. The author grounds Ms. Grussner's efforts to form a school choir  in the context of the political and racial milieu of the New York City public school system, replete with all the political chicanery and requisite skullduggery involved in the running of a school in such an environment.<br /><br />The author's narrative is seamless and unsentimental, letting the strength of the story itself soar, rewarding the reader with a richness of detail about the school and those involved in its day to day activities. She provides the reader with three dimensional portraits of  those who contributed to the seven days of possibilities, whereby twenty-four of Ms. Grussner's most musically gifted students traveled with her to her hometown in order to perform in a gospel concert. There, they discover that music is a universal language, and the week spent in the Aland Islands would be one that would long linger in their collective memories.<br /><br />This is truly an excellent book, beautifully written and immensely readable. It is a book that will keep the reader turning its pages until the very last one is turned. Bravo!s of possibilities, whereby twenty-four of Ms. Grussner's most musically gifted students traveled with her to her hometown in order to perform in a gospel concert. There, they discover that music is a universal language, and the week spent in the Aland Islands would be one that would long linger in their collective memories.<br /><br />This is truly an excellent book, beautifully written and immensely readable. It is a book that will keep the reader turning its pages until the very last one is turned. Bravo!	2004-10-10
495548:US	49355567	R31RUOTQUUVX19	158234311X	742205657	Ghosty Men: The Strange but True Story of the Collyer Brothers and My Uncle Arthur, New York's Greatest Hoarders (An Urban Historical)	Books	4	83	87	N	Y	HARLEM'S HOARDING HERMITS...	Ever since I read \\"My Brother's Keeper\\", a wonderful book  by Marcia Davenport,  which was a novel loosely based upon of the lives of the notorious Collyer brothers, I have been interested in reading more about these strange men who hoarded junk in their Harlem brownstone home. Having grown up the well-educated children of privilege, it is odd that Homer and Langley Collyer should have each led so ignominious an existence, sad relics of what might have been. They both ended up dying in their junk laden, squalid home, which was filled from top to bottom with old newspapers and the detritus of others, as well as their own.<br /><br />When I came across this book, I was delighted, as it gives the reader a birds-eye view into the life that the Collyer brothers led. Since the facts known about their lives are somewhat limited, as they were, after all, hermits, the author intersperses the Collyer account with one closer to home, that of  his own Uncle Arthur, who was also a hoarder.  The author seamlessly weaves these two stories of hoarders and their lives into a book that is highly entertaining. It is at once both poignant and humorous.	2004-10-09
501714:US	49355567	R2QATNUCTIH5NB	5559609102	155429542	Fortune's Rocks	Books	5	16	21	N	N	EVOCATIVE AND PROVOCATIVE...	This is a well-crafted and lyrically written narrative, evocative of an era gone by. It tells the story of Olympia Biddeford, the unusually erudite and well-educated fifteen year old daughter of a Boston Brahmin. One hot and steamy summer in turn of the century New Hampshire, she falls passionately and utterly in love with her father's friend, forty one year old John Haskell, a physician and man of letters, who has a wife and four children. She, captivated by his intelligence and his crusade on behalf of exploited mill workers, and he, drawn to her youth, intelligence and beauty, leave all thought of propriety behind. Breaking every moral and social taboo of the time, they enter into a forbidden, illicit love affair, which is ultimately doomed, with cataclysmic ramifications for all whom the affair touches.<br /><br />The book explores how this young woman copes with the loss of her life in a larger social milieu, once the affair enters into the public domain through the machinations of another. She and the doctor, as well as their respective families, are tainted with scandal and presented with the fruit of that illicit love. The book explores how Olympia must reconstruct the tatters of her life into one in which she is finally able to expiate her youthful indiscretion within the context of the mores of the time. In doing so, she goes on a voyage of self-discovery. Yet, through it all, she never once renounces her devotion to the man who introduced her to the throes of a passion so deep and profound that she gave herself over to it, body and soul. How these star-crossed lovers finally come to terms with their grand passion is a story that the author seamlessly weaves into a book that will keep the reader riveted to its pages. Bravo!	2004-10-03
501951:US	49355567	R1Y5YU952NOVUO	9504904122	19538088	Mujer del Piloto, La (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	BETRAYAL AND SHATTERED MEMORIES...	This is the Spanish text edition of a beautifully written novel about a happily married woman, Kathryn Lyons, whose husband, Jack, is an airline pilot. They have a teenage daughter named Mattie. They live in her lovely childhood home in Ely, New Hampshire. For sixteen years life has been good. Then her husband goes down with his plane, just ten miles off the coast of Ireland, and ever so slowly the very fabric of their life together unravels.<br /><br />The media frenzy, surrounding the explosion of the plane that her husband was piloting, brings to light the plain fact that her husband had been, unbeknownst to her, leading a double life, a life that had not included her or their daughter, but had, most emphatically, excluded them. This is a story of Kathryn's navigation of the emotional roller coaster that was to become her life. She is thrust into a maelstrom of grief and disbelief, as she struggles to reconcile her memory of the man she thought she knew, with the reality of who he now appeared to have been.<br /><br />This is a remarkable book, written in clean spare prose that underscores some of the very emotion laden issues with which it grapples. At times infinitely sad and poignant, it is a story of betrayal and splintered memories, as well as a very absorbing, skillfully told tale of adultery that will hold the reader in its thrall.	2004-10-03
502532:US	49355567	R1TMZAXSI2SXD	0061013145	393955773	Tears of the Moon	Books	5	22	22	N	Y	A SPELLBINDING FAMILY SAGA...	This author is a born storyteller. She weaves a spellbinding story of a young woman, Lily Burton who, upon the death of her mother, embarks upon a search for her roots. The only link with her past is a beautiful mother-of-pearl pendant with distinctive markings.  Her voyage of discovery takes her to western Australia and a town called Broome. It is there that she finds her great-grandmother Olivia's diary and discovers the rich, though startling, truth about her family and its heritage.<br /><br />This is a vastly entertaining book that transports the reader to the hardscrabble world of late nineteenth  century western Australia, which finds  young, pregnant Olivia Hennessey and her husband, Conrad, newly arrived from England, embarking  upon a journey and adventure of a lifetime. There, they would meet Captain John Tyndall, a handsome and dashing adventurer with whom they would forge a thriving business alliance that would later transform itself into something else for both Olivia and the Captain. These star-crossed lovers would find that the path to true love is not an easy one.<br /><br />This is an exciting story told against the backdrop of Australia's pearling industry of the time. It is an adventure story laced with romance, as well as an epic family saga.  It is a story  that will keep the reader riveted to the pages of this book, as Lily's search for her family's heritage unfolds. This book is an enthralling work of romantic historical fiction.	2004-10-03
502600:US	49355567	RVWJ13FY0UV1C	0812828976	82467584	Second Serve	Books	4	12	13	N	Y	SECOND CHANCE...	This is another intriguing story in the evolving history of transgender narratives. Here, the individual with the gender dysphoria was a noted eye surgeon with the financial resources necessary to achieve her goal.  Still, her resources and did not prevent the inner turmoil and trauma that she underwent during a journey that took her from being Richard Raskin to Renee Richards. It was a journey that was, at times, to be marked by a curious ambivalence.<br /><br />In reading her story,  I would sometimes wonder whether it was gender dysphoria that was at the root of her unhappiness with herself or the  sexual abuse that she suffered at the hands of her mother and sister during her childhood. Having read the accounts of many other gender dysphoric individuals who have surgically changed their outer selves to conform to their inner selves, I never doubted their sincerity or reasons for doing so.<br /><br />In Ms. Richards' case, however, I found myself questioning the reasons for her gender change, as they rang hollow. Instead, it sounded as if she had other issues with which to contend that may have been the cause of her unhappiness. This is why I am not surprised to have recently read that she herself has apparently questioned her decision to undergo a surgical gender change and has evidently had regrets about her decision to surgically transition from male to female.<br /><br />Still, Ms. Richards has led a fascinating, though utterly narcissistic, life that makes for interesting reading. A well-respected ophthalmologist, she is still in practice today at the age of seventy.	2004-10-02
502681:US	49355567	R1C5MF3AXZZ0H3	3423203951	734527065	Das dunkelste Blau.	Books	5	1	1	N	N	TIES THAT BIND...	This is the German text edition of a beautifully written debut novel. Exquisite in its imagery and clarity of language, the author tells two parallel tales. One takes place in sixteenth century France, during the Protestant reformation and religious persecution of the Huguenots (Protestants). The other takes place in present day France. There are historical ties that bind these two stories, as well as a haunting familial legacy that reaches out across time to makes itself felt in the present.<br /><br />The sixteenth century tale is based around a young woman, Isabelle du Moulin, who marries a boorish lout named Etienne Tournier, the oldest son of one of the more prominent families in their provincial town in France. She is a young woman upon whom the Virgin Mary made a great impression, when she was but a girl. The Tourniers, however, are believers of the new, harsh, Calvinist faith, and so Isabelle must also fully subscribe to it, if she is to survive in her husbands family and in the town in which she lives. When the St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre occurs, in which Huguenots are slain without mercy throughout all of France, Isabelle is forced to flee to safety with what remains of her husband's family. Unhappy in her marriage, she goes on to have an event occur in her life that is so tragic that her pain and sorrow is made palpable in the present, touching one of her ancestors, Ella Turner.<br /><br />Of course, the parallel tale focuses around Ella Turner, a young, married American woman, who moves to France with her husband Rick, in order to advance his career. Ella agrees to the move, because it will take her to the region in France from which she knows her family originated. Once in France, Emma has some difficulty acclimating to life in the small provincial town to which they have moved, as well as to its denizens. Ella also finds herself having inexplicable nightmares and begins to feel herself somewhat alienated from her husband. To occupy her time, she begins a quest to discover more about her French ancestry. As Ella's story unfolds, alternating with the parallel story of Isabelle, commonalities between the past and present begin to emerge. These parallel stories then converge in a stunning denouement to resolve a tragedy of the past in the present.<br /><br />The author combines historical fiction, suspense, romance, and touch of the supernatural all in one beautifully realized novel. The author writes with the heart of a poet and the soul of a great storyteller, one whose prose is delicately nuanced as she weaves gossamer threads of a tale well told. This is simply a superlative and stunning debut novel that will keep the reader turning its pages until the very last. Bravo!ins a quest to discover more about her French ancestry. As Ella's story unfolds, alternating with the parallel story of Isabelle, commonalities between the past and present begin to emerge. These parallel stories then converge in a stunning denouement to resolve a tragedy of the past in the present.<br /><br />The author combines historical fiction, suspense, romance, and touch of the supernatural all in one beautifully realized novel. The author writes with the heart of a poet and the soul of a great storyteller, one whose prose is delicately nuanced as she weaves gossamer threads of a tale well told. This is simply a superlative and stunning debut novel that will keep the reader turning its pages until the very last. Bravo!	2004-10-02
502826:US	49355567	R1TO0CUP5MHCDU	2253145947	231643135	Le Poids De L'eau/ the Weight of Water (French Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A COMPELLING TALE OF COMPLEX  EMOTIONS...	This is the French text edition of \\"The Weight of Water\\", an exceptionally well-written tour de force about complex emotions. Written is clean, spare prose, it is two stories in one, each with its own voice, demanding to be heard. It is, without a doubt, a book to remember.<br /><br />It tells the story of Jean, a news photographer who sets out on a sailboat to a remote island off the coast of New Hampshire, accompanied by her husband, Thomas, her five year old daughter, Billie, her brother-in-law, Rich, and his girl friend of several months, Adaline. The purpose of her visit is to photograph the scene of a nineteenth century double murder that saw two Norwegian, immigrant women hacked to death, which murders were much ballyhooed at the time as the crime of the century.<br /><br />While there, she discovers an uncatalogued translation of the personal journal of the ostensible lone, female eyewitness, Maren Hontvedt, who seemed to have survived the carnage. Written in a somber and ruminative tone, the journal of Maren's life and of the events that led up to the carnage forms a core of the story. Maren's journal provides a framework for looking at the angst of Jean's present, which is haunted by passion, jealousy, and betrayal. It is through Maren's story that Jean herself comes to terms with her own personal tragedy.<br /><br />Alternating between Jean's unraveling present and the secrets of the past, the book provides a compelling, absorbing and suspenseful narrative, keeping the reader in its thrall. The two juxtaposed dramas come together in a primal and tragic climax. Those who read this book will find themselves haunted by it.	2004-10-02
504047:US	49355567	R3U8PCHBZMPH7C	5551983374	740371631	Dangerous Fortune-23.95	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A RIVETING WORK OF HISTORICAL FICTION...	The author, a masterful storyteller, weaves an intriguing and mesmerizing tapestry of events that surround the wealthy Pilaster banking family in the latter part of nineteenth century England. Its panoramic sweep will hold the reader in its thrall. This complex story tells of the ebb and flow of their personal fortunes and the personalities that are to profoundly affect them, for better or worse.<br /><br />Augusta Pilaster is the scheming, socially conscious, self-appointed matriarch of the family. She is a woman who will stop at nothing to ensure that her reckless and easily manipulated husband, Joseph, and their indolent, dissolute, and lackluster son, Edward, will get and retain control of the Pilaster banking enterprise. Her Machiavellian machinations, however, will eventually trigger the downfall of the family's fortune.<br /><br />Hugh Pilaster, Augusta's nephew by marriage, is the Pilaster who has the brains and work ethic to take the Pilaster banking fortune to a new level. His Achilles heel is that he seems destined to be attracted to working class women, a chink in his armor that Augusta Pilaster uses to her and her immediate family's advantage. He, too, is Augusta Pilaster's unwitting pawn, until the day of reckoning comes.<br /><br />Micky Miranda is the romantically handsome scion of a South American despot. Micky attended an exclusive school with Edward and Hugh Pilaster, when they were young. While there, tragedy struck when a mysterious swimming accident took the life of one of their friends, an event that was to shadow their lives in ways no one could have imagined. Micky Miranda would eventually enter into a web of complicity with Augusta Pilaster that would impact on the fortunes of both the Miranda and Pilaster families.<br /><br />This book takes the reader through all strata of English society, from the drawing rooms of the upper classes and nobility to the exclusive men's clubs and brothels that cater to exotic appetites. It is a totally engrossing and absorbing tale of love, hatred, and treachery that spans three decades. It is simply a terrific book, as it is a captivating and wholly entertaining work of well-written historical fiction. Bravo!ossing and absorbing tale of love, hatred, and treachery that spans three decades. It is simply a terrific book, as it is a captivating and wholly entertaining work of well-written historical fiction. Bravo!	2004-10-01
505716:US	49355567	R38E51ZPCSJUIY	0679724354	573507975	AURORA'S MOTIVE	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	MINE...MINE...ALL MINE...	This is a reasonably interesting re-counting of the tragedy that enfolded Aurora Rodriguez, a daughter of Spain, who, born in 1890, grew up in comfort and privilege as a member of the bourgeois, only to renounce the norms of her upbringing in search for a more perfect recognition of self.<br /><br />After the death of her parents, Aurora was to scandalize her contemporaries, as well as her brother, with her search for a surrogate father for a child, which she would raise herself in accordance with her own philosophical vision. That vision was a liberal, free-thinking one, in which the world would be made into a better, more Utopian one. In this world, the role of women would be equal with men, which philosophy was very avant-garde for her time.<br /><br />Aurora met a man who represented that he was a priest, albeit an unconventional one, and agreeing to her terms, they entered into a sexual relationship for the purpose of procreation. Aurora's determination bore fruit, when she eventually found herself pregnant. In 1914, Aurora moved to Madrid, where she gave birth to that child, a girl whom she named Hildegart and to whom she was slavishly devoted.<br /><br />As her daughter grew up, mother and daughter were as one in terms of ideas and philosophies.  Aurora was Hildegart's Svengali, and Hildegart was being made in her mother's political image. It was almost as if Aurora were living vicariously through her daughter, who was highly precocious for her age.  By the time Hildegart was seventeen, she was a well known public figure and espouser of liberal causes and feminism, as well as an ardent advocate for a Spanish Republic.<br /><br />As young woman are so often wont to do, however, Hildegart made a brief stab at independence from her mother's intellectual apron strings after she met H. G. Wells. She began thinking of things other than politics and causes.  No longer was Aurora the center of Hildegart's world, a fact that caused Aurora much distress. Feeling betrayed by a daughter over whom she exercised less and less control, Aurora had the final say when she put a gun to her sleeping daughter and fired it at point blank range.<br /><br />This murder was a cause celebre in Spain, where Hildegart in her short life had become a fairly well-known public figure and an impassioned advocate on many issues that were, at the time, viewed as being leftist by nature. The author attempts to reconstruct Aurora's life and paint a portrait of a woman who, born before her time, had sought immortality through her daughter, Hildegart, a child who was raised in the cross-hairs of her mother's singular vision.<br /><br />Their  story is briefly told and is hampered somewhat by a translation that, at times, seems awkward in its construction. Moreover, the portrait  that the author paints of his subjects never seems to rise beyond the two-dimensional.  Still, for those unfamiliar with these two star-crossed lives, the book provides a tantalizing glimpse into a story of a mother's love gone dangerously awry. It is a tragic reminder that a parent must allow a child to live his or her  own dreams and not those of the parent.ed by a daughter over whom she exercised less and less control, Aurora had the final say when she put a gun to her sleeping daughter and fired it at point blank range.<br /><br />This murder was a cause celebre in Spain, where Hildegart in her short life had become a fairly well-known public figure and an impassioned advocate on many issues that were, at the time, viewed as being leftist by nature. The author attempts to reconstruct Aurora's life and paint a portrait of a woman who, born before her time, had sought immortality through her daughter, Hildegart, a child who was raised in the cross-hairs of her mother's singular vision.<br /><br />Their  story is briefly told and is hampered somewhat by a translation that, at times, seems awkward in its construction. Moreover, the portrait  that the author paints of his subjects never seems to rise beyond the two-dimensional.  Still, for those unfamiliar with these two star-crossed lives, the book provides a tantalizing glimpse into a story of a mother's love gone dangerously awry. It is a tragic reminder that a parent must allow a child to live his or her  own dreams and not those of the parent.	2004-09-29
506409:US	49355567	R2F11BYFFJ7Z55	0380731479	529493659	The Kiss	Books	5	53	55	N	Y	A FATHER/DAUGHTER TABOO...	This is an elegantly written memoir, searingly painful, yet, at the same time, strangely compelling, about a young woman who grew up in a dysfunctional household, raised primarily by her grandparents. Her  undemonstrative mother, who lived apart from her daughter during her formative years,  was emotionally distant,  and her father, from whom her mother was divorced, was physically absent.<br /><br />When she was reunited with her father at the age of twenty, her hunger for love and affection was such that an unfatherly kiss led  to a consensual and obsessive sexual affair with her  biological father, an ordained minister. It was an obsession in which her own mother was seemingly complicit, treating her daughter as if she were a rival for the affection of the man that they both loved. The author's unseemly obsession with her father would torment and haunt her for years.<br /><br />This is a beautifully told story about a parental betrayal so  incomprehensible that it will leave the reader aghast. The author infuses the book with a sadness that is heartbreakingly palpable. Her evocative and lyrical prose, spare and intense, elevates this otherwise sordid and tawdry tale, making it a haunting memoir of a past that is best forgotten.	2004-09-29
507975:US	49355567	R1QNTRSQOU0SL4	0689812361	432327679	Running Out of Time	Books	5	61	68	N	N	THE VILLAGE...	I really enjoyed M. Night Shyamalan's film, \\"The Village\\", and later read that there was controversy over where the idea for the film had originated. It had been suggested that the premise of the film had been taken from this book. My curiosity having been piqued, I decided to check for myself. I was surprised that the book was one that had been written for the young adult market. Still, I did not let that deter me from buying the book, though it had been decades since I had been a young adult. I was pleased, however, to note that the book had been designated an ALA Best Book for Young Adults, so all was not lost.<br /><br />The book is an easy and pleasant read with a very compelling storyline. It tells the story of thirteen year old Jessie Keyser, who all her life has believed that she lives in the nineteenth century frontier village of Clifton, Indiana. When diphtheria  starts claiming the lives of the village children, her mother tells her that it is not really 1840, as Jessie has been led to believe, but 1996. It appears that the village in which Jessie has grown up is actually a historical preserve, which its inhabitants are forbidden to leave. Jessie, however,  is entrusted with a very important mission. She is to leave the preserve and seek help for their village in the outside world, avoiding capture by those who would seek to silence her in order to maintain the status quo and the secret that they are harboring in Clifton.<br /><br />This is a very imaginative debut novel with a strong storyline that will appeal to those who are fond of historical fiction or time travel tales.  It is most definitely a plot driven, rather than character driven, story. While it is simply written so as to appeal to the young adult market and teens, the story is so compelling that adults will also enjoy it, as long as they  keep in mind the targeted audience. As for its similarity to the film, \\"The Village\\", there can be little doubt as to why someone would suggest comparison between the two.between the two.	2004-09-27
509571:US	49355567	R2743JS5VV6328	1932100067	85183132	The Man Who Folded Himself	Books	3	46	62	N	N	THE MAN WHO LOVED HIMSELF JUST A LITTLE TOO MUCH...	I love books that have a time travel theme and looked forward to reading this book, as it had come highly recommended. This book is more like a long short story or a very brief novella, which is a mercy, considering how disappointed I was by it. It was merely ok. In fact, there was very little about it that I found to be engaging, though I do not affirmatively dislike the book.<br /><br />The book is about a young man, Daniel Eakins, who inherits a belt that allows him to travel in time. The book itself is like a diary that the main character keeps of his journeys in time. He writes mostly about meeting other versions of himself, both male and female, and making love to those versions. His presence at some of the greatest moments in history, which he does go to see, consist of nothing more than a laundry list to indicate that he had been there. There are also journal entries by some of his other various incarnations, which is a moderately interesting contrivance.<br /><br />Still, there is little substance to the book in terms of plot, as well as little character development. The time spent in other eras are glossed over quickly, as if too much time would be wasted in doing otherwise. Daniel does try to change some historic moments, with some interesting consequences, but that, too, is glossed over. The book almost reads as if it were a stream of consciousness narration, which is, perhaps, congruent with keeping a diary or journal. The exploration of sexuality in which the author engages is certainly novel, though slightly creepy.<br /><br />This book, which feels more as if it were an outline for a book,  would probably  be of interest only to die hard, time travel fans. If you are not such an individual, deduct one star from my rating and avoid this book. As is its central character, the book is in a state of arrested development.	2004-09-26
509641:US	49355567	RQ8NWU0S484Y8	0312978359	480797501	An Hour To Kill: A True Story of Love, Murder, and Justice in a Small Southern Town (St. Martin's True Crime Library)	Books	4	21	23	N	Y	AN HOUR MAY LAST A LIFETIME...	This is a very good true crime book about a murder that divided a small community and made national headlines. It involved the murder of seventeen year old Crystal Todd, who had been brutally killed. She had been stabbed in excess of thirty-five times, nearly gutted, practically decapitated, and raped. A resident of the small, good ol' boy town of Conway, South Carolina, her murder left its other residents stunned. All wondered how could this have happened in their town, and who could possibly have committed such a wanton, senseless murder?<br /><br />Months later, after her friend and one time boyfriend, Ken Register, a popular, churchgoing, former All-American high school football player  was arrested for her murder, all wondered how he could have committed this crime. Some even wondered if he had committed the crime, despite DNA evidence and a confession to the contrary, which indicated that Ken Register had, in fact, committed this heinous murder. It was during the trial that an  unknown dark side of Ken Register emerged and shocked those who professed to know him.<br /><br />This case gained national prominence, as it was one of the first capital murder cases to utilize DNA as forensic evidence at the trial and its use, as such, was still in its nascent stage and had not, as yet, acquired widespread public acceptance. Moreover, CBS ran a piece on the murder in which the show cast doubt on DNA evidence,  as it made it clear that  there were no national standards for either the testing of DNA or for the personnel who conducted such tests. DNA experts, Barry Scheck and Peter Neufeld, who would later go on to fame and fortune through their association with the  O. J. Simpson case,  also interjected  themselves into the matter, though they would later disassociate themselves from it. Even author Mickey Spillane and his wife, Jane  got into the act, publicly claiming post-trial that Ken Register was innocent.<br /><br />The book goes into a lot of detail about the case, its investigation and trial, as well as about the parties involved. The only thing missing is some substantive analysis or insight into who Ken Register really is. While his dark side did come into play, it may have added more depth to the book if the authors had spent some time on a more substantive profile of Ken Register. There is really nothing much proffered by the authors  as to what made him explode into such a killing frenzy other than a scenario imagined by the case detective. Still, this is a book that those who are interested in true crime will enjoy.se, its investigation and trial, as well as about the parties involved. The only thing missing is some substantive analysis or insight into who Ken Register really is. While his dark side did come into play, it may have added more depth to the book if the authors had spent some time on a more substantive profile of Ken Register. There is really nothing much proffered by the authors  as to what made him explode into such a killing frenzy other than a scenario imagined by the case detective. Still, this is a book that those who are interested in true crime will enjoy.	2004-09-26
510146:US	49355567	R3HC0OB9CRT1LF	0892211105	728072599	China Cry	Books	4	15	16	N	Y	GOD IS MY WITNESS...	This is the incredible story of Nora Lam, a woman whose unwavering faith in God has seen her through more upheavals in her life than most people ever experience.<br /><br />Her story spans decades and takes the reader through the invasion of China by the Japanese. The daughter of a western educated doctor, Nora  saw her comfortable upper middle class life end in 1939, when at the age of seven she was forced by the Japanese to flee her home on the outskirts of Shanghai with her parents and seek refuge at the home of her step-grandmother's house in the French section of Shanghai. There they would remain for three miserable years, during which Norma was to have the first of a number of visions of a guardian angel, appearing  in the guise of an old man. This guardian angel would sustain her and advise her in her hour of need throughout her life.<br /><br />At the age of ten, she and her parents once again fled. This time they were to travel to Chungking, in free China, where her grandfather lived.  Only after a perilous journey through Japanese occupied China and after being beset by robbers along the way, were they to cross the heavily guarded border and arrive safely at their destination. In the primitive city of Chungking, which was subject to continual bombing by the Japanese, Nora was to learn many life lessons that were to hold her in good stead.<br /><br />Nearly four years later,  in 1945, having survived the invasion of Shanghai by the Japanese and their heavy bombing of Chungking, Nora returned to Shanghai after the Japanese surrendered. There, Nora was to continue her education at a boarding school for girls. Now an impressionable fourteen years old, it was there that Nora renewed her interest in Christianity.  Then, in 1949, the peace of life in  Shanghai was once again disrupted for now seventeen year old Nora, when the Communist Army entered within its confines and Red Army soldiers were suddenly everywhere. The Cultural Revolution had only just begun.<br /><br />Nora studied hard at the university in hopes of becoming a lawyer for the state. There she met and fell in love with Lam Cheng Shen, a handsome and young legal scholar. Some time after graduation, in 1955,  when she realized that she was pregnant, Nora and Cheng Shen got married. Shortly after, she and her husband were subjected to interrogations by Communist officials, as they were deemed to be suspicious because of their family connections and because of that fact that Nora had, at one time, held Christian beliefs. Moreover, as Nora's  independent spirit began to chafe under the repressive and oppressive party line,  she found herself in conflict with the state and sentenced to death. Her moment of truth arrived when the pregnant Nora was brought before the firing squad.<br /><br />What happened next is sure to make one believe in miracles. It is at that miraculous moment that life really began for Nora. She goes on to live a life that is nearly incredible in terms of its experiential breadth. It is a secular life ultimately lived in the service of God in all parts of the world. It is amazing what this young woman would go on to achieve and accomplish in her life. Notwithstanding the fact that some of her story strains credulity, hers is, indeed, an inspirational story that will make one believe in a higher power, if one does not already do so. It is surely a story worth telling.<br /><br />Nora Lam has gone on to establish the Nora Lam Ministries, which is based in California, and she leads evangelical crusades in China and the United States. A movie, based upon this book and having the same name, has also been made./><br />Nora studied hard at the university in hopes of becoming a lawyer for the state. There she met and fell in love with Lam Cheng Shen, a handsome and young legal scholar. Some time after graduation, in 1955,  when she realized that she was pregnant, Nora and Cheng Shen got married. Shortly after, she and her husband were subjected to interrogations by Communist officials, as they were deemed to be suspicious because of their family connections and because of that fact that Nora had, at one time, held Christian beliefs. Moreover, as Nora's  independent spirit began to chafe under the repressive and oppressive party line,  she found herself in conflict with the state and sentenced to death. Her moment of truth arrived when the pregnant Nora was brought before the firing squad.<br /><br />What happened next is sure to make one believe in miracles. It is at that miraculous moment that life really began for Nora. She goes on to live a life that is nearly incredible in terms of its experiential breadth. It is a secular life ultimately lived in the service of God in all parts of the world. It is amazing what this young woman would go on to achieve and accomplish in her life. Notwithstanding the fact that some of her story strains credulity, hers is, indeed, an inspirational story that will make one believe in a higher power, if one does not already do so. It is surely a story worth telling.<br /><br />Nora Lam has gone on to establish the Nora Lam Ministries, which is based in California, and she leads evangelical crusades in China and the United States. A movie, based upon this book and having the same name, has also been made.	2004-09-25
510271:US	49355567	R2XWJVOU6JZSPQ	0449225275	973518793	Bride of Moat House	Books	5	9	9	N	N	THE FLY IN THE OINTMENT...	This is an entertaining novel of romantic suspense by a best selling author who specializes in this genre. The author weaves an intriguing tale of a love triangle in which birds of a feather flock together but then look for someone else to feather their nest.<br /><br />Here, Antonia Meekin and Richard Curwen, two attractive and charming,  impoverished ne'er-do-wells, meet and fall in love. Antonia, the more practical of the two, realizes that, while they may be soul mates, their love would quickly die on the vine when the reality of their impoverished circumstances were to set in. She then goes about getting herself a rich husband and introduces Richard to her wealthy though frail first cousin, Eloise Everard, who looks amazingly like Antonia, a fact that will come in handy down the road.<br /><br />Eloise, unsurprisingly,  falls madly in love with Richard, and they marry.  Richard and Antonia, however, carry on a clandestine affair that lasts for years. When Antonia's rich husband dies, she and Richard carry on under Eloise's very nose. Long time family retainer and Eloise's former nanny, Emma Plume, has long had suspicions about the handsome Mr. Curwen and the charming Antonia.  Then, one moment of carelessness confirms Ms. Plume's suspicions, throwing a monkey wrench into the lovers' situation.<br /><br />This causes Eloise to go into an emotional tailspin that not even Diana, hers and Richard's young daughter, can stop. Richard is now heartily sick of his clinging, emotional wife and will stop at nothing to be with his beloved Antonia.  So, he moves Eloise and Diana to an isolated estate called Moat House and decides to do something that will bring him his heart's desire. When the devoted Ms. Plume finds herself dismissed from Ms. Eloise's service without so much as a by-your-leave, she grows suspicious of the circumstances of her dismissal.<br /><br />This is a well-written tale of romantic suspense that fans of Ms. Lofts, as well as those who love the books of Victoria Holt, will enjoy. It is a well-crafted tale told from the perspectives of Emma Plume, Richard Curwen, and Antonia Meekin with an unexpected twist in the tale that is sure to surprise even the most discerning of readers.f Victoria Holt, will enjoy. It is a well-crafted tale told from the perspectives of Emma Plume, Richard Curwen, and Antonia Meekin with an unexpected twist in the tale that is sure to surprise even the most discerning of readers.	2004-09-25
510377:US	49355567	R3ESMOK92YC7L1	1558611495	505041444	Brown Girl, Brownstones	Books	4	33	35	N	N	THE BARBADIAN IMMIGRANT EXPERIENCE IN BROOKLYN, NY...	This is a worthy and ambitious debut novel about the Barbadian immigrant experience  in Brooklyn, New York, by a little known African-American author, whose own parents emigrated from Barbados during World War I. The author herself grew up in Brooklyn. She attended Brooklyn College, graduating Phi Beta Kappa in 1953, a time when most Americans, much less a black woman, did not attend college. This drive to succeed is a testament to her Barbadian heritage.<br /><br />It is from that heritage that the author drew in creating her characters and developing their rich mix of personalities, as she re-created the early  Barbadian immigrant experience in post-depression era Brooklyn. The book focuses on the Boyces, a nuclear family consisting of Silla, the ambitious, hard working, ever striving mother, Deighton,  her charming, pie-in-the-sky dreamer of a husband, and their two daughters, Ina, the older and more passive one, and Selina, the bright, rebellious one. The novel follows the fortunes of the Boyce family from the late 1930s until shortly after Word War II. It tells of their lives, their hopes, and their dreams.<br /><br />The book beautifully details the experience of the early Barbadian immigrants in Brooklyn and their adjustment to their new environment. They brought with them their own ideas, their own ways of doing things, and a work ethic that is hard to beat. Quite frankly, Barbadians revitalized areas of Brooklyn that were dormant. Theirs was an almost traditional immigrant experience, but for the racism that they were to encounter here. Still, they did not allow that to stand in their way from getting ahead and going for the American dream.<br /><br />This book neatly encapsulates that immigrant experience through the Boyce family. One gets a very good sense of what the experience of the Barbadian immigrant was like through the interactions of the Boyce family with others in their community, as well as with each other. While Silla Boyce typifies the Barbadian community in terms of goals and work ethic, dreams and desires, with its focus upon material acquisition, her husband, Deighton, does not.  Their separate dreams and desires conflict and act as a catalyst for a tragedy that would mar intra-familial relationships.<br /><br />It is also a coming of age story, as Selina struggles to find her place in the new society and rich community her people are creating. She also struggles to find her place in the larger community, as well, stepping out of the insular one into one where racism is a factor. She is also interested in exploring her roots and heritage. Still, being who she is, the reader believes that Selina will not founder. Though Selina would hate to admit it, she is the one who is most like her mother, a fact of which she is not cognizant throughout most of the novel. She is truly her mother's daughter, in thought and deed.<br /><br />This is a richly satisfying novel. The author captures the \\"Bajun\\" way of speaking in all its rich, expressive cadence. While some may find this \\"Bajun\\" dialect, which is interspersed throughout the novel, difficult to follow or distracting, it is this richness of language that give this book its very distinctive feel. Moreover, while the author may sometimes get too bogged down with overly descriptive detail, she paints a vibrant picture of a segment of society that has too long been ignored in literature.  Those who like reading about the immigrant experience will enjoy this book, as will those who are interested in discovering worthy authors that have receded from public memory.an community in terms of goals and work ethic, dreams and desires, with its focus upon material acquisition, her husband, Deighton, does not.  Their separate dreams and desires conflict and act as a catalyst for a tragedy that would mar intra-familial relationships.<br /><br />It is also a coming of age story, as Selina struggles to find her place in the new society and rich community her people are creating. She also struggles to find her place in the larger community, as well, stepping out of the insular one into one where racism is a factor. She is also interested in exploring her roots and heritage. Still, being who she is, the reader believes that Selina will not founder. Though Selina would hate to admit it, she is the one who is most like her mother, a fact of which she is not cognizant throughout most of the novel. She is truly her mother's daughter, in thought and deed.<br /><br />This is a richly satisfying novel. The author captures the \\"Bajun\\" way of speaking in all its rich, expressive cadence. While some may find this \\"Bajun\\" dialect, which is interspersed throughout the novel, difficult to follow or distracting, it is this richness of language that give this book its very distinctive feel. Moreover, while the author may sometimes get too bogged down with overly descriptive detail, she paints a vibrant picture of a segment of society that has too long been ignored in literature.  Those who like reading about the immigrant experience will enjoy this book, as will those who are interested in discovering worthy authors that have receded from public memory.	2004-09-25
510771:US	49355567	R1B9EBUXG3MNV6	0446855898	580668962	The Entity	Books	3	5	10	N	N	THE TRIALS AND TRIBULATIONS OF HAVING A DEMON LOVER...	I first read this book over twenty five years ago, when it was first released, and recalled that I had enjoyed it. I recently spotted it on my daughter's book shelf and decided to give it another go-around. Unfortunately, I cannot say that it was anything about which to write home to mother. My memory of the book was far better than its reality.<br /><br />The book is supposedly based upon a true story in which an attractive  young woman named Carlotta is beset by something called an incubus, which is a demon that assumes male form and descends upon women, often while they are sleeping, and proceeds to have sexual intercourse with them. Tired of having this spectral rapist have his way with her, Carlotta seeks the help of a handsome psychiatrist who believes that she is mentally ill and that her experiences are simply in her mind and a manifestation of her illness. He, unfortunately, falls in love with her.<br /><br />Carlotta, finding that the psychiatrist is unable to prevent her nightly orgiastic experiences, consults with members of a paranormal investigative team from the same university with which the psychiatrist is affiliated. While the team that investigates paranormal activity seems to be onto something, the psychiatrist considers their investigation to be an intrusion into his bailiwick, and a clash of the opposing disciplines ensues, while Carlotta and her incubus are hot and heavy.<br /><br />This is a plot driven, rather than character driven, story that, while interesting on its face, is not particularly well-written.  It tends to drag, as it is too long. It is a book in need of some serious editing. Moreover, there is no resolution of the storyline, which keeps the reader in limbo, a result that is rarely satisfactory. It appears that the author tried to re-create the success of his earlier best-seller, \\"Audrey Rose\\", a novel of reincarnation, but was not successful in doing so, producing a book that is marginally entertaining at best.r /> <br />	2004-09-25
511984:US	49355567	RQQ9CJC81UG9	0671823493	412606618	The Good Earth	Books	5	14	14	N	N	COMPLEX...COMPELLING...CLASSIC...	This 1932 Pulitzer Prize winning novel is still a standout today. Deceptive in its simplicity, it is a story built around a flawed human being and a teetering socio-economic system, as well as one that is layered with profound themes. The cadence of the author's writing is also of note, as it rhythmically lends itself to the telling of the story, giving it a very distinct voice. No doubt the author's writing style was influenced by her own immersion in Chinese culture, as she grew up and lived in China, the daughter of missionaries.<br /><br />This is the story of the cyclical nature of life, of the passions and desires that motivate a human being, of good and evil, and of the desire to survive and thrive against great odds. It begins with the story of an illiterate, poor, peasant farmer, Wang Lung, who ventures from the rural countryside and goes to town to the great house of Hwang to obtain a bride from those among the rank of slave. There, he is given the slave O-lan as his bride.<br /><br />Selfless, hardworking, and a bearer of sons, the plain-faced O-lan supports Wang Lung's veneration of the land and his desire to acquire more land. She stays with him through thick and thin, through famine and very lean times, working alongside him on the land, making great sacrifices, and raising his children. As a family, they weather the tumultuousness of pre-revolutionary China in the 1920s, only to find themselves the recipient of riches beyond their dreams. At the first opportunity, they buy land from the great house of Hwang, whose expenses appear to be exceeding their income.<br /><br />With the passing of time, Wang Lung buys more and more land from the house of Hwang, until he owns it all, as his veneration of the land is always paramount. With O-lan at this side, his family continues to prosper. His life becomes more complicated, however, the richer he gets. Wang Lung then commits a life-changing act that pierces O-lan's heart in the most profoundly heartbreaking way.<br /><br />As the years pass, his sons become educated and literate, and the family continues to prosper. With the great house of Hwang on the skids, an opportunity to buy their house, the very same house from where he had fetched O-lan many years ago, becomes available. Pressed upon to buy that house by his sons, who do not share Wang Lung's veneration for the land and rural life, he buys the house. The country mice now have become the city mice.<br /><br />This is a potent story, brimming with irony, yet simply told against a framework of mounting social change. It is a story that stands as a parable in many ways and is one that certainly should be read. It illustrates the timeless dichotomy between the young and the old, the old and the new, and the rich and the poor. It is no wonder that this beautifully written book won a Pulitzer Prize and is considered a classic masterpiece. Bravo!ay.<br /><br />As the years pass, his sons become educated and literate, and the family continues to prosper. With the great house of Hwang on the skids, an opportunity to buy their house, the very same house from where he had fetched O-lan many years ago, becomes available. Pressed upon to buy that house by his sons, who do not share Wang Lung's veneration for the land and rural life, he buys the house. The country mice now have become the city mice.<br /><br />This is a potent story, brimming with irony, yet simply told against a framework of mounting social change. It is a story that stands as a parable in many ways and is one that certainly should be read. It illustrates the timeless dichotomy between the young and the old, the old and the new, and the rich and the poor. It is no wonder that this beautifully written book won a Pulitzer Prize and is considered a classic masterpiece. Bravo!	2004-09-23
515692:US	49355567	R2806B55VKF9WM	0843926317	193965651	Patsy Cline	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A MEDIOCRE BIOGRAPHY...	This biography of Patsy Cline captures much of the feeling of the era in which its subject lived and grew up, as well as the state of the music industry of the time. The book has a more difficult time capturing the essence of its subject, Patsy Cline, the hard living, hard loving, country diva who would become known as one of the most emotive voices in the history of country music. In her too short career, cut prematurely in a plane crash, she managed to put together a notable roster of musical hits and was a crossover sensation, with hits in both the country and pop charts of the time.<br /><br />The book is chock full of information, much of it interesting, if one is interested primarily in the music that Ms. Cline sang. One comes away from reading this book with a good appreciation of the music industry of the time and a great deal of information about the songs that were to propel Ms. Cline to stardom, as it is exceedingly well-researched.<br /><br />As to the subject of this biography, the author has done little more than string together many quotes from those who knew Ms. Cline, with little or no analysis or insight in the mix. The author has also included some of Ms. Cline's personal correspondence. These reminiscences, while interesting, are sometimes repetitive, and the book could have benefited by more artful editing and better writing. Still, a portrait of the struggling artist with too little money and too many men emerges from the pages of this book. Die hard fans of Ms. Cline will gain some enjoyment from reading this book.	2004-09-20
517225:US	49355567	R1T8ZGE15VZH62	0641577141	244886090	The Nanny Diaries	Books	3	1	2	N	Y	MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING...	I had originally thought that this was going to be a work of non-fiction in a nanny tell all. It turned out, instead, to be a mildly funny look at the rich and obnoxious and their young children through the eyes of a spineless nanny. While some of this book is amusing, it is not  particularly well written. It is the kind of book you read once, and then promptly forget. It is not a bad book, as it is somewhat entertaining. What this book really represents is what happens when a book grabs the attention of the media. It becomes a best seller. Long after the dust settles, I anticipate that this book will be to the publishing world, what a one hit wonder is to the music industry.<br /><br />This work of fiction provides caricatures of selfish, self-absorbed, wealthy parents and a peek into the life of their overly-structured and overly-managed offspring. The nanny in question is also a caricature, as she struggles to be appear good hearted, but in the end is just a spineless jellyfish who goes along with the program, no matter how offensive she may find her employers and their demands to be. The nanny tries to come across as an underprivileged, put upon employee, but is, in reality, part of the problem, as she is certainly not a part of the solution. She is an upper middle class, young woman who attends a prestigious university. She is hardly one of the hoi polloi, no matter how much she may empathize with those who are truly at the mercy of employers such as the ones found in this book. As social satire, this book falls short. Borrow it from the library. Do not bother to buy it, as it is a one note book and, at most, a quick, throwaway read.	2004-09-18
517825:US	49355567	R3D2O3I4HUGZZW	0743272935	412606618	The Good Earth (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	350	367	N	N	A PROFOUND STORY SIMPLY TOLD...	This 1932 Pulitzer Prize winning novel is still a standout today. Deceptive in its simplicity, it is a story built around a flawed human being and a teetering socio-economic system, as well as one that is layered  with profound themes. The cadence of the author's  writing is also of note, as it rhythmically lends itself to the telling of the story, giving it a very distinct voice. No doubt the author's writing style was influenced by her own immersion in Chinese culture, as she grew up and lived in China, the  daughter of missionaries.<br /><br />This is the story of the cyclical nature of life, of the passions and desires that motivate a human being, of good and evil, and of the desire to survive and thrive against great odds. It begins with the story of an illiterate, poor, peasant farmer,  Wang Lung, who ventures from the rural countryside  and goes to town to the great house of Hwang to obtain a bride from those among the rank of slave. There, he is given the slave O-lan as his bride.<br /><br />Selfless, hardworking, and a bearer of sons, the plain-faced O-lan supports Wang Lung's veneration of the land and his desire to acquire more land. She stays with him through thick and thin, through famine and very lean times, working alongside him on the land, making great sacrifices,  and raising his children. As a family, they weather the tumultuousness of pre-revolutionary China in the 1920s, only to find themselves the recipient of  riches beyond their dreams. At the first opportunity, they buy land from the great house of Hwang, whose expenses appear to be exceeding their income.<br /><br />With the passing of time, Wang Lung buys more and more land from the house of Hwang, until he owns it all,  as his veneration of the land is always paramount. With O-lan at this side, his family continues to prosper. His life becomes more complicated, however, the richer he gets. Wang Lung  then commits a life-changing act that pierces O-lan's heart in the most profoundly heartbreaking way.<br /><br />As the years pass, his sons become educated and literate, and the family continues to prosper. With the great house of Hwang on the skids, an opportunity to buy their house, the very same house from where he had fetched O-lan many years ago, becomes available. Pressed upon to buy that house by his sons, who do not share Wang Lung's veneration for the land and rural life, he buys the house. The country mice now have become city mice.<br /><br />This is a potent story, brimming with irony, yet simply told against a framework of mounting social change. It is a story that  stands as a parable in many ways and is one that certainly should be read. It illustrates the timeless dichotomy between the young and the old, the old and the new, and the rich and the poor. It is no wonder that this beautifully written book won a Pulitzer Prize and is considered a classic masterpiece. Bravo!reaking way.<br /><br />As the years pass, his sons become educated and literate, and the family continues to prosper. With the great house of Hwang on the skids, an opportunity to buy their house, the very same house from where he had fetched O-lan many years ago, becomes available. Pressed upon to buy that house by his sons, who do not share Wang Lung's veneration for the land and rural life, he buys the house. The country mice now have become city mice.<br /><br />This is a potent story, brimming with irony, yet simply told against a framework of mounting social change. It is a story that  stands as a parable in many ways and is one that certainly should be read. It illustrates the timeless dichotomy between the young and the old, the old and the new, and the rich and the poor. It is no wonder that this beautifully written book won a Pulitzer Prize and is considered a classic masterpiece. Bravo!	2004-09-18
519609:US	49355567	R34QQFMFSCOU07	2253139548	58546347	Le Journal D Asta (Ldp Policiers) (French Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	FAMILY SECRETS...	This is the French text edition of \\"Asta's Book\\", a beautifully written, well-nuanced novel of mystery and suspense that seamlessly moves between the past and the present. The past is told through the diaries of a Danish immigrant named Asta, who went to live in Edwardian England with her husband, Rasmus, and two young sons at the turn of the century. Settling down in East London in 1905, her loveless marriage and loneliness drove Asta to keep a journal of her innermost thoughts and experiences.<br /><br />Though married to a man who spent a great deal of time away from home on business and with whom she seemed to have little in common, she added two more children to her family, daughters, Swanny, her favorite, and Maria, the youngest. Asta's lyrically written journals would chronicle of her life, her struggles as an immigrant, her hopes and dreams, and her adoration of Swanny. They would also tantalizingly hint at a secret that would, ultimately, impact on her daughter, Swanny, later in life.<br /><br />Over seventy years later, those diaries, all forty nine of them, would be discovered and become a publishing sensation and a bestseller. Within its many pages would lie the missing pieces to a turn of the century murder mystery and the leads to the whereabouts of a missing child, as well as tantalizing clues to the puzzling circumstances surrounding Swanny's birth. This information would lie dormant until nearly a century after Asta first put pen to paper, when Asta's granddaughter, Maria's daughter Ann, would review the diaries and discover not only the secret of Swanny's birth, but the identity of a missing child, as well as that of a killer, who nearly a century earlier had butchered two women.<br /><br />This is a book well worth reading, and one that will command the reader's attention until the very last page is turned.	2004-09-16
519792:US	49355567	R31RJXQCY22BW2	0050551671	850148185	Patsy Cline: An Intimate Biography	Books	3	3	3	N	N	HONKY TONK ANGEL...	This biography of Patsy Cline captures much of the feeling of the era in which its subject lived and grew up, as well as the state of the music industry of the time. The book has a more difficult time capturing the essence of its subject, Patsy Cline, the hard living, hard loving, country diva who would become known as one of the most emotive voices in the history of country music. In her too short career, cut prematurely in a plane crash, she managed to put together a notable roster of musical hits and was a crossover sensation, with hits in both the country and pop charts of the time.<br /><br />The book is chock full of information, much of it interesting, if one is interested primarily in the music that Ms. Cline sang. One comes away from reading this book with a good appreciation of the music industry of the time and a great deal of information about the songs that were to propel Ms. Cline to stardom, as it is exceedingly well-researched.<br /><br />As to the subject of this biography, the author has done little more than string together many quotes from those who knew Ms. Cline, with little or no analysis or insight in the mix. The author has also included some of Ms. Cline's personal correspondence.  These reminiscences, while interesting, are sometimes  repetitive, and the book could have benefited by more artful editing and better writing. Still, a portrait of the struggling artist with too little money and too many men emerges from the pages of this book. Die hard fans of Ms. Cline will gain some enjoyment from reading this book.	2004-09-16
519954:US	49355567	RCCYAZ6G3VFL0	5557102019	761691187	Going Wrong	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A TWISTED TALE OF OBSESSIVE LOVE...	British author, Ruth Rendell, is, undoubtedly, the doyenne of  psychological suspense, painting subtle portraits of offbeat, quirky characters that are just a tad off the beaten path. Delving into their psyches, she draws the reader into the slightly skewed world  that they inhabit. Their world then becomes that of the reader, as the author weaves a tapestry of a world that is just a bit awry, deftly letting the reader know that something is wrong, so very wrong.<br /><br />The author does no less in this well-written novel, as she leads the reader into the mind and world of Guy Curran, a handsome, young man from the slums who has led a hard scrabble life, elevating himself from the bowels of poverty by dint of his own hard work and acquiring great wealth in the process . Unfortunately for him, that hard work included some less than reputable dealings in the drug trade, which provided the capital for his now legitimate businesses.<br /><br />For years, Guy has been obsessively in love with Leonora Chisholm, an upper class miss who, after years of being his reluctant childhood sweetheart, has rejected him and all the trappings of wealth and comfort he has to offer her. She prefers to live in genteel poverty with her friends, while acquiring a new boyfriend whom her family and friends like.  Guy is convinced some of his past, shady dealings have come to the attention of someone in Leonora's family or inner circle. He believes that that individual has persuaded Leonora to turn away from him.<br /><br />Now, who would go and do such a thing? Read this well-written book and join Guy in the process of eliminating the likely suspect in this twisted tale of obsessive love.	2004-09-16
521110:US	49355567	R1HB140GPEIU5Z	1405004908	621198908	The Ice House	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	A WORTHY DEBUT NOVEL...	Winner of Britain's John Creasey Award for Best First Crime Novel, this splendid debut novel by the author is a tough act to follow. She weaves a marvelous mystery surrounding three women who live together in an English Country manor house, one of whom, Phoebe Maybury, is suspected of having murdered her bounder of a husband ten years ago. More recently, a corpse in found in an old icehouse on their property, and rumors begin flying fast and furious about these three women.<br /><br />Ostracized by the community in which they live, these three women become larger than life in the minds of the local townsfolk. The charming and artistic Diana Goode and the earthy, no nonsense Anne Catrell hunker about their housemate, Phoebe Maybury, as the events of the past threaten to crop up again and overwhelm her.<br /><br />The police, led by Chief Inspector Walsh, a man with his own underlying agenda, seem intent upon putting the screws to these three women, fixating upon Phoebe. Only Sergeant Detective McLoughlin seems to be genuinely interested in discovering the truth. In order to do so, however, he must confront his own personal demons, as he finds himself drawn into a snare of deceit, good intentions gone awry, loyalty, and a secret that threatens to ruin the lives of three women.<br /><br />The author cleverly uses the discovery of the corpse as a catalyst for a voyage of self-discovery for some of her characters. Brimming with a cornucopia of subplots and one or two red herrings, the author grips the reader with a literate and compelling narrative. She is a welcome addition to the ever growing list of British mystery novelists. This author's work should appeal to those who enjoy mysteries written by Ruth Rendell.	2004-09-15
521467:US	49355567	RSCLCC0FSBKH8	0739427113	512398584	The Other Boleyn Girl	Books	5	25	29	N	N	A FAMILY AFFAIR...	This well-known author of historical fiction has outdone herself with this  rich and absorbing tale of the notorious Boleyn sisters, Anne and Mary. The Tudor court, with all its pomp and intrigue, is seen through the eyes of the beautiful Mary Boleyn, who at the age of fourteen arrives at court and becomes lady-in-waiting to Katherine of Aragon, Queen of England and wife to King Henry VIII.  Although already married to courtier William Carey, Mary captures the heart of King Henry VIII, whose roving eyes land on this innocent young miss.<br /><br />In the eyes of the grasping and greedy Boleyn family, Mary is but the fatted calf through whom their ambitions, they believe, will become realized. So, they offer her up as a sacrifice to their ruthless ambition. Forced to separate from her husband in order to become the King's mistress, Mary betrays the Queen and becomes mistress to the King, all at the behest of her family. Every step of her affair is choreographed from the wings by her family, with the adept aid of her sly and clever sister, Anne, in the role of chief manipulator.<br /><br />Mary struggles with her own code of honor and personal morality, which is often in conflict with what is mandated by her family. Still, despite her best intentions, Mary disappoints them, as her nature is not the kind that takes well to intrigue and manipulation. She the temerity to have sincere feelings of affection for the King, as well as for the Queen. After bearing the King two children, however, she is set aside by a formidable rival, her own sister, Anne, in whom  the Boleyn family now place their hopes and ambitions.<br /><br />This is, first and foremost, the story of Mary Boleyn, a woman who has generally been reduced to a footnote in history. It is notable, however, that she was the only Boleyn sibling to survive the purges of the Tudor court and who, ultimately, married for love in an age when this was not the norm among those of her class.  It is also the story of Anne Boleyn, her rise and fall, as seen through the eyes of her sister, Mary, with whom Anne was to have a lifelong rivalry.<br /><br />To a  lesser degree, it is also the story of their brother, George, a more remote, though no less interesting, personage. His interjection into the story is necessary, as the author attempts to address the issue of incest that arose at the trial of George and Anne Boleyn. She gives quite an interesting perspective on the issue, weaving it, part and parcel, into the story in an effort to explain his downfall, as well his betrayal by his own wife.<br /><br />Told against the magnificent backdrop of the Tudor Court in all its splendor and majesty, the author weaves a complex tale of greed, ambition, sex, and political machination, as well as unparalleled intrigue, in sixteenth century England. Filled with well-fleshed characters taken right out of the annals of history, the story is one that is sure to delight all those with a love for well-written historical fiction. In particular, fans of beloved author, Jean Plaidy, will enjoy this book.Boleyn, her rise and fall, as seen through the eyes of her sister, Mary, with whom Anne was to have a lifelong rivalry.<br /><br />To a  lesser degree, it is also the story of their brother, George, a more remote, though no less interesting, personage. His interjection into the story is necessary, as the author attempts to address the issue of incest that arose at the trial of George and Anne Boleyn. She gives quite an interesting perspective on the issue, weaving it, part and parcel, into the story in an effort to explain his downfall, as well his betrayal by his own wife.<br /><br />Told against the magnificent backdrop of the Tudor Court in all its splendor and majesty, the author weaves a complex tale of greed, ambition, sex, and political machination, as well as unparalleled intrigue, in sixteenth century England. Filled with well-fleshed characters taken right out of the annals of history, the story is one that is sure to delight all those with a love for well-written historical fiction. In particular, fans of beloved author, Jean Plaidy, will enjoy this book.	2004-09-14
522711:US	49355567	RXYRDCRZZK5G5	0613913965	822797340	Little Girls in Pretty Boxes: The Making and Breaking of Elite Gymnasts and Figu	Books	5	2	2	N	N	TO BE OR NOT TO BE...	This is a terrific book on the state of woman's gymnastics and, to some extent, figure skating, though the primary focus of the book is on gymnastics. It focuses on the enormous demands made upon these young athletes by coaches, trainers, officials, and parents. Some of those demands are so unrealistic as to border on child abuse. There are athletes who are starve themselves, who develop life threatening eating disorders, who perform dangerous maneuvers in the quest for the gold, and who sometimes end up dead or devastatingly injured as a result.<br /><br />There is a lot of backstage dish in the book that is interesting. True life stories, some of which are heartbreaking, flesh out the allegations asserted by the author. The emphasis on being tiny and elfin has had enormous impact on elite female gymnasts. One sees the difference just by looking comparatively at the women's U.S. Olympic gymnastic teams from 1976 and 1992. The photographs in the book best illustrate this and the comparison bespeaks volumes. Elite gymnastics went from being a woman's sport to a girl's sport, as the author has sagely noted, and the photographs corroborate that assertion.<br /><br />Moreover, while some measures have been taken, such as raising the age for Olympic competition in 2000 from fifteen to sixteen, at the same time the minimum level of difficulty has increased, making an already dangerous sport more dangerous. Remember, elite gymnastics is a sport fraught with the potential for devastating spinal cord injuries. The author recounts a number of these heartbreaking injuries and the circumstances under which they occurred, leaving the reader to ask oneself, \\"Just what were these coaches thinking?\\"<br /><br />The pressure that some of these girls and young women endure is truly unbelievable. The demands upon them are often unrealistic, stunting not only their physical development, but their social and emotional development, as well. Competing with serious injuries, while taking potent drugs for the excruciating pain, is simply not commensurate with a sensible athletic regimen.<br /><br />Parents who are living their dreams through their children are often as dangerous as unscrupulous and unqualified coaches. Many force their children to compete merely to satisfy their own desires for personal glory, badgering and berating their offspring every step of the way. Coaches, likewise, have their own dreams. Everyone wants to produce Olympians, but at what cost?<br /><br />This is a an excellent book with a lot of information, both anecdotal and empirical. When purchasing the book, however, be sure to get the latest edition, as it has been updated with information on the state of gymnastics as of the year 2000. It also contains 24 pages of photographs, including 8 new pages for the updated edition.tent drugs for the excruciating pain, is simply not commensurate with a sensible athletic regimen.<br /><br />Parents who are living their dreams through their children are often as dangerous as unscrupulous and unqualified coaches. Many force their children to compete merely to satisfy their own desires for personal glory, badgering and berating their offspring every step of the way. Coaches, likewise, have their own dreams. Everyone wants to produce Olympians, but at what cost?<br /><br />This is a an excellent book with a lot of information, both anecdotal and empirical. When purchasing the book, however, be sure to get the latest edition, as it has been updated with information on the state of gymnastics as of the year 2000. It also contains 24 pages of photographs, including 8 new pages for the updated edition.	2004-09-13
522755:US	49355567	RIUG67JRKFZLO	1417630183	571684273	Flowers For Algernon (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	5	77	81	N	N	PROFOUNDLY MOVING...THOUGHT PROVOKING...	This is a wonderful and highly original novel about a mentally challenged man named Charlie who wanted to be smart. One day, his wish was granted. A group of scientists selected him for an experimental operation which would to raise his intelligence to genius level. Suddenly, Charlie found himself transformed, and life, as he knew it, changed.<br /><br />His story is told entirely through Charlie's eyes and perceptions in the form of progress reports. The reader actually sees the change in Charlie take place, as his progress reports become more complex, well written, and filled with the angst of personal discovery and growth, as well as with his gradual awareness of his amazing and accelerated intellectual development.<br /><br />The progress reports are a wonderful contrivance for facilitating the story, and the reader is one with Charlie on his voyage of self-discovery. What happens to Charlie in the long run is profoundly moving and thought provoking. It is no wonder that this author was the recipient of the Nebula Award, which is given by the Science Fiction Writers of America for having written the Best Novel of the Year. This is definitely a book well worth reading and having in one's personal collection. Bravo!	2004-09-13
522974:US	49355567	R3JDE8W2TJ3GTN	8432037648	209089682	Once	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A BRILLIANT TREAURE TROVE OF SHORT STORIES...	I first became aware of Ms. Highsmith through her wonderful book, \\"The Talented Mr. Ripley\\". Although I am not a big fan of short stories, I decided to take a chance on this book, as I so admired the author's talent. I am delighted that I did so, as this book contains a veritable treasure trove of literary gems.<br /><br />Her stories range from the macabre to the suspenseful. What makes them particularly chilling is that many of them take place in otherwise mundane everyday settings with people who may be either quite ordinary or slightly bizarre, but to whom something extraordinary happens. These are stories that will capture the imagination of the reader. Some even reminded me a little bit of the stories of H. P. Lovecraft, as some of them contain a strong element of horror, crafted, however, in a most delicate, sublime fashion.<br /><br />These eleven compelling short stories will keep the reader turning the pages of this marvelous little book. This Spanish language edition of the book \\"Eleven\\" allows speakers of Spanish to enjoy this author. It is a book well worth having in one's personal collection. Bravo!	2004-09-13
523174:US	49355567	R1LMUT101OIJD2	0759542120	85211063	The Fig Eater	Books	3	0	0	N	N	ELEGANTLY WRITTEN...ATMOSPHERIC...BUT MISSES THE MARK...	This is an intriguing novel about the murder of Dora, a young eighteen year old woman found dead in a park. The contents of her stomach at the time of death contained a half digested fig. She was also a patient of Dr. Freud. You see, her murder happened in Vienna, Austria in 1910.<br /><br />The case is assigned to a nameless inspector, who is trying to investigate this homicide according to certain principles set forth in a book of criminalistics written at the turn of the century. It is an intellectual and cerebral approach to a criminal investigation. It is also an interesting look at a turn of the century police procedural.<br /><br />Meanwhile, Dora's murder has captured the imagination of the inspector's independent, Hungarian born wife, Erzebet, who, unbeknownst to her husband, has begun her own parallel investigation based upon intuition and her own cultural proclivities. She is joined in her endeavor by her friend, a governess who is at loose ends while her employer is away.<br /><br />During the investigation, this elegantly written novel paints an atmospheric, three dimensional portrait of turn of the century Vienna, lush with details about everyday life. It is this part of the book that is the strongest and the most interesting, as it is highly evocative of a place and time gone by. The mystery itself, however, ends up not being much of a mystery, after all. In the final analysis, the promise of this highly ambitious novel remains unfulfilled, as the author simply bit off more than she could chew. The novel whets the appetite but, ultimately, fails to sate it.	2004-09-13
523340:US	49355567	R2QCMXP0RQIJFM	3526253986	669523097	Heat and Dust. Mit Materialien. (Lernmaterialien)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	THE HEAT OF THE ROMANCE...THE DUST OF ITS ASHES...	This is a well written book that explores Anglo-Indian relations through the power of romance. Set in two distinct eras, colonial India of the nineteen twenties, during the time of the Raj, and the independent, freewheeling India of the seventies, during the time when India was a mecca for disenfranchised youth, it tells the story of two women.<br /><br />One story is that of Olivia, the wife of a minor district official in colonial India, who in 1923 caused great scandal by running off with the Nawab, a local Indian prince. Divorced by her husband, Douglas, for this scandalous transgression, Olivia remains in India, while Douglas remarries. The second story is that of the narrator, a descendant of Douglas and his second wife. During the nineteen seventies, fascinated by the story of the now deceased Olivia, she goes to India, visiting those locations where Olivia had lived and those which would have been a part of her existence at the time. As did Olivia, she falls under India's spell. As did Olivia, she, too, has an Anglo-Indian love affair, and picks up where Olivia left off, giving the reader a powerful sense of de-ja vu.<br /><br />The book is a beguiling story of two women from two different generations who come under the spell of India. The book is evocative of British colonial India, as well as of India of the nineteen seventies. During both eras, Anglo-Indian relations are pivotal to the budding romances. The book is evocative of the rythyms of Indian life in all its richness and tumultuousness, as well as its lingering poverty and superstitions. It is redolent of a time gone by and hopeful of what is to come. It is also an interesting dichotomy of the good and bad in both cultures, Anglo and Indian, and the influence that both cultures have on these two women, who are so different, yet so alike.<br /><br />This is a book that whets the appetite, leaving the reader wanting more than the author is prepared to give. It is, nonetheless, a book well worth reading. The book was also made into a Merchant Ivory film starring Julie Christie and Greta Scacchi.ng. The book was also made into a Merchant Ivory film starring Julie Christie and Greta Scacchi.	2004-09-13
523355:US	49355567	R2TYCWPLZ8M1TF	0449235033	868613530	Stepford Wives	Books	5	1	1	N	N	I'M A BARBIE GIRL, LIVING IN A BARBIE WORLD...	This is a thought provoking, tautly written novella. A gem of suspense, it was first published in the early nineteen seventies and went on to become a popular movie of the same name, starring Katherine Ross. There is now a remake of the film version, starring Nicole Kidman in the lead role with Bette Midler in a supporting role and Christopher Walken as head of the sinister Men's Association described in the book. So, interest is now renewed in this very readable book, which, despite its simplicity and brevity, is a thinly disguised social commentary on the reaction of men to the early women's liberation movement.<br /><br />The story is very simple but gripping and well written in clear, straightforward prose. Joanna Eberhart moves to the seemingly bucolic town of Stepford with her husband, Walter, and two children, leaving behind the dangers of big city living. An independent, assertive, intelligent, and creative woman, Joanna epitomizes the newly liberated women of the nineteen seventies. Looking for like souls with whom to become friends, she seeks out some of the other married women of the town, only to find that they are all uniformly addicted to housework, give their husbands complete obeisance, are made up to the gills, and have figures courtesy of maidenform.<br /><br />Joanna manages to find several like-minded women such as her. Yet, when they, too, become addicted to housework after having a romantic weekend alone with their respective husbands, Joanna becomes convinced that the town's Men's Association has hatched a nefarious plot to change all the wives of Stepford into submissive Barbie dolls. Will Joanna manage to escape the fate of the rest of the Stepford wives? Read the book and find out. You will not be disappointed.	2004-09-13
523391:US	49355567	R9QGP58NZB2PM	0451403355	527649504	Sleep, My Child, Forever (Onyx True Crime)	Books	3	12	14	N	Y	MOMMY DEAREST...	This book tells the story of Ellen Boehm, a St. Louis, Missouri divorced mother of three, who, within a two year time frame, cold-bloodedly snuffed out the life of her two little boys and botched an attempt on the life of her daughter. The demise of these two otherwise healthy children, who were alleged to have simply stopped breathing, left medical doctors puzzled as to the cause of their deaths.<br /><br />Unfortunately for Ellen, she was unable to exhibit any of the usual sign of grief, and her demeanor struck many of those who knew her as odd. Yet, there was no tangible forensic evidence linking her to the deaths of her children. Still, there was one person who was convinced of her guilt, a St. Louis homicide detective who began looking into the matter and made certain startling discoveries. Like a dog with a bone, he was not about to close out the case without bringing Ellen Boehm to justice.<br /><br />The book details Ellen's life and the events that led to her cool commission of the crimes, as well as her eventual apprehension for the murders. It also includes eight pages of black and white photographs. The book itself is not particularly well-written and contains little depth or analysis. Still, the story is sufficiently compelling that it will appeal to those who have an appreciation for the true crime genre.	2004-09-13
523555:US	49355567	R1IU9DRYUVGDQK	1586480928	354868531	Separate, But Equal: The Mississippi Photographs of Henry Clay Anderson	Books	5	4	4	N	N	BLACK MIDDLE CLASS LIFE IN THE DEEP SOUTH PRE-CIVIL RIGHTS.	This book is a moving pictorial testament to the daily life of middle class blacks in the deep South in the time of Jim Crow, as well as on the cusp of the civil rights movement. It is a slice of black life with which most whites at the time were unfamiliar, as most photo-journalists chose to capture the more sensational types of images in the black community.<br /><br />Henry Clay Anderson was a black school teacher and minister who, courtesy of the G. I. Bill, studied photography and became a professional photographer. In 1948, he established his own business, Anderson Photo Service, in Greenville, Mississippi, where he lived. For more than forty years, he would photograph moments in the lives of Greenville's black middle class community, forever freezing in time images of a rich life that paralleled those of their white counterparts in the Jim Crow South, separate but equal.<br /><br />The book has one hundred and thirty of his photographs, memorializing a time long past but one that continues to haunt America today. Clifton L. Taulbert, who was raised in Mississippi in a town not far from Greenville and is the noted author of the book, \\"Once Upon a Time When We Were Colored\\", writes a poignant and moving essay in remembrance of the black denizens of Greenville, grounding the photographs in the context of the times out of which they arose. It is as if it were a walk down memory lane.<br /><br />Mary Panzer, curator of photographs at the National Portrait Gallery in Washington, D.C., writes an essay that details Mr. Anderson's photographic involvement in the early civil rights movement, when he agreed to go travel to Belzoni, Mississippi in 1955. Belzoni had been the scene of the grisly shooting of Rev. Gus Lee, a black civil rights activist who had been involved in voter registration efforts. Mr. Anderson's photographs memorialized the shooting and its aftermath, appearing in magazines such as \\"Jet\\" and \\"Ebony\\", which were well known in the black community. Ms. Panzer grounds his photographs in the political context of the time, which affirm Mr. Anderson's political commitment.<br /><br />There are also two essays in Mr. Anderson's own words that are culled from two interviews conducted by Daisy Greene for the Washington County Oral History Project and by Shawn Wilson, in whom the idea for this book germinated. The book is a loving tribute to Henry Clay Anderson. His legacy of photographic images will delight and haunt those who look at them, seeing in them not only America's past but its future. This is simply a beautiful book.anzer grounds his photographs in the political context of the time, which affirm Mr. Anderson's political commitment.<br /><br />There are also two essays in Mr. Anderson's own words that are culled from two interviews conducted by Daisy Greene for the Washington County Oral History Project and by Shawn Wilson, in whom the idea for this book germinated. The book is a loving tribute to Henry Clay Anderson. His legacy of photographic images will delight and haunt those who look at them, seeing in them not only America's past but its future. This is simply a beautiful book.	2004-09-13
523706:US	49355567	R1NXUQWRN62AK8	0641556721	943168075	The Weight of Water	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A HAUNTING, COMPELLING  BOOK ABOUT COMPLEX EMOTIONS...	This is an exceptionally well-written tour de force about complex emotions. Written is clean, spare prose, it is two stories in one, each with its own voice, demanding to be heard. It is, without a doubt, a book to remember.<br /><br />It tells the story of Jean, a news photographer who sets out on a sailboat to a remote island off the coast of New Hampshire, accompanied by her husband, Thomas, her five year old daughter, Billie, her brother-in-law, Rich, and his girl friend of several months, Adaline. The purpose of her visit is to photograph the scene of a nineteenth century double murder that saw two Norwegian, immigrant women hacked to death, which murders were much ballyhooed at the time as the crime of the century.<br /><br />While there, she discovers an uncatalogued translation of the personal journal of the ostensible lone, female eyewitness, Maren Hontvedt, who seemed to have survived the carnage. Written in a somber and ruminative tone, the journal of Maren's life and of the events that led up to the carnage forms a core of the story. Maren's journal provides a framework for looking at the angst of Jean's present which is haunted by passion, jealousy, and betrayal. It is through Maren's story that Jean herself comes to terms with her own personal tragedy.<br /><br />Alternating between Jean's unraveling present and the secrets of the past, the book provides a compelling, absorbing and suspenseful narrative, keeping the reader in its thrall. The two juxtaposed dramas come together in a primal and tragic climax. Those who read this book will find themselves haunted by it.	2004-09-13
523775:US	49355567	R216U4YJL18NCY	074930460X	635389380	My Left Foot	Books	5	34	35	N	N	A TRIUMPHANT AND INSPIRATIONAL STORY...	This is the story of a young man who was born in Ireland in 1932, after a difficult birth and with a severe disability that the doctors of the time were unable to name. They urged his parents to disavow him, as he was, they believed, an imbecile with a severely spastic body. Moreover, his parents then had five other children, all healthy. Christy's mother, however, refused to institutionalize him, keeping him at home and treating him as she would her other children. It would not be until years later that she would learn that Christy's affliction was severe cerebral palsy.<br /><br />Imprisoned in a world all his own and seeming without means to communicate, Christy, at the age of five, made an attempt that was to change his life forever. Rather than being imbecilic, Christy was actually highly intelligent. He took a piece of chalk with his left foot and, having captured the attention of his family, proceeded to scrawl on the floor a reasonable facsimile of the letter \\"A\\", astounding his loving family in the process.<br /><br />By breaking the communications barrier, Christy demonstrated that he could learn and understand. From then on, his capacity for learning was prodigious. Who would have thought that within his severely contorted and convulsed body lay a razor sharp mind and a thirst for knowledge? Certainly not the medical community, which had been so willing to consign him to institutional living. Armed with his left foot, the only part of his body over which he seemed to have some control, Christy Brown would demonstrate to the world who he really was. He was, after all, not the imbecile that the medical community had originally thought but an intelligent and sentient human being.<br /><br />This is Christy Brown's triumphant and inspirational story of his battle to learn to read, write, and paint, all with the aid of his left foot. It is an inspirational story of his quest for fulfillment. His yearning to be as others are is palpable, and his struggle for acceptance beyond the borders of his home and his physical limitations are well articulated. Christy Brown gives the reader a birds-eye view of what it is like to be a person with severe cerebral palsy. First published in Great Britain in 1954, when Christy Brown was twenty-two, this book, written with his left foot, is a testament to the resiliency of the human spirit.ceptance beyond the borders of his home and his physical limitations are well articulated. Christy Brown gives the reader a birds-eye view of what it is like to be a person with severe cerebral palsy. First published in Great Britain in 1954, when Christy Brown was twenty-two, this book, written with his left foot, is a testament to the resiliency of the human spirit.	2004-09-13
523777:US	49355567	R1AQWU3MJIR2QG	3464123820	76040724	Cold Comfort Farm	Books	5	0	0	N	N	SOMETHING NASTY HAPPENED IN THE WOODSHED....	Published in 1932, this novel is a hysterically funny, tongue in cheek parody of the heavy handed, gloomy novels of some early twentieth century English writers who had previously been so popular. Tremendously successful when first published, \\"Cold Comfort Farm\\" caused quite a stir in its time.<br /><br />The novel starts out innocuosly enough, when well educated Flora Poste finds herself orphaned at the age of twenty. Discovering that her father was not the wealthy man she believed him to be, she is resigned to the fate of having to live on a hundred pounds a year. Opting to live with relatives, rather than earn her bread, she seeks out a most unlikely set of relations, the odd Starkadder family who live in Howling, Sussex.<br /><br />Therein begins what is certainly one of the funniest novels ever written. When Flora arrives in Howling, she meets her odd relatives, who live in neglected, ramshackle \\"Cold Comfort Farm\\", where they still wash the dishes with twigs, and have cows named Graceless, Pointless, Feckless, and Aimless. Headed by a seventy-nine year old matriarch, Flora's aunt, Ada Doom Starkadder, who has not been right in the head since she \\"saw something nasty happen in the woodshed\\" nearly seventy years ago, they are a motley and strange crew indeed. Confronted with their dismal and gloomy existence, Flora sets about trying to put things to right.<br /><br />Peppered with eccentric, memorable characters, this book will take the reader on a journey not easily forgotten. It is one that is sure to make the reader revisit this novel yet again, like an old friend who is missed too soon.	2004-09-13
546108:US	49355567	R1I5W5K0C1T8A5	0312966326	950726668	Dying For Daddy: A True Story of Family Killer Jack Barron (St. Martin's True Crime Library)	Books	3	10	10	N	Y	HUSBAND, FATHER, SON, SERIAL KILLER...	This is a pretty straightforward telling of a true crime story that involved  Jack Barron, a man whose wife, son, and daughter all seemed to have died in that order in their sleep in Sacramento California within two years of each other. Thanks to a bumbling, seemingly incompetent, Coroner's Office and a fairly uninterested Sacramento County Sheriff's Department, what should have been obvious after his wife's death, went unnoticed by those who should have known. One cannot help but speculate what might have been had the authorities acted with some semblance of competence. Perhaps, there might not have been three more needless deaths.<br /><br />Consequently, Jack Barron went on to ensure that his little son and young daughter met the same fate as their mother. Still, no one in Sacramento law enforcement made a move to stop Jack Barron after each death, and the Coroner's Office still dithered in terms of its medical findings and conclusions. It was not until Barron moved to another jurisdiction, Benicia, California,  and his  own mother met the same fate as her daughter-in-law and grandchildren, did the Sacramento authorities really sit up and take notice, as law enforcement in Benicia was immediately suspicious of the circumstances surrounding his mother's death, especially when they discovered what had happened to the rest of Barron's family in Sacramento. The Coroner's Office for Benicia had no problem determining the cause of death for Barron's mother, given the medical findings. They were the same findings that had existed for Barron's wife. The only difference in the determination of the cause of death was the competence of the Coroner for the corresponding jurisdiction.<br /><br />While the story is told in a fairly straightforward fashion, it is a story that is somewhat  premature in the telling, as the book ends with Jack Barron awaiting trial for murder in Sacramento, California for the deaths of his wife, son, and daughter. His trial for his mother's murder would follow the one in Sacramento. So, there is no trial information or resolution in this book. One has to go on the internet to discover the eventual result of the trial. The lack of this information in the book is disappointing, as it leaves the reader hanging. Those readers who enjoy the true crime genre will still get a modicum of enjoyment from reading this book but will be brought up short by the obvious drawback in the story.would follow the one in Sacramento. So, there is no trial information or resolution in this book. One has to go on the internet to discover the eventual result of the trial. The lack of this information in the book is disappointing, as it leaves the reader hanging. Those readers who enjoy the true crime genre will still get a modicum of enjoyment from reading this book but will be brought up short by the obvious drawback in the story.	2004-08-23
547571:US	49355567	R2FLKHESGE1DCK	0786011637	434979175	Wages Of Sin	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	THE WAGES OF SIN ARE FIFTY TO LIFE...	This is a well-written true crime book in which the author tells the tale of a grotesque murder and its cover up. The murder victim was twenty-three year old Chris Hatton, a handsome and somewhat shy young man who was just starting out in life. Well liked by his peers, Hatton's life would take a turn for the worse, when he decided that he needed a roommate, and William  Busenburg moved into Hatton's apartment. Little did Chris Hatton know what a mistake that would be.<br /><br />William Busenburg had gone to high school with Chris Hatton, but they had never been close. William Busenburg had many personal issues and demons with which he had to contend throughout his life. An intelligent and nice looking  young man, he was a habitual liar who could not be trusted. Then, William met Stephanie Lynn Martin, an exotic dancer in a strip joint, who would fall hard for the fast talking William. Fed a steady diet of lies by him, Stephanie lived in a fantasy world of William's own creation that had her believing that he was a wealthy CIA operative whose mission in life was to kill on orders from the government.<br /><br />Stephanie, who had been raised as a devout Southern Baptist by her well-to-do parents, was something of a wild child. She liked life in the fast lane and was a disappointment to her parents, who found it difficult to believe that their daughter would not conform to the norms of their community. When Stephanie left home and moved to Texas, they had no idea that she would find work as an exotic dancer. They were not to discover this, until Stephanie, along with William,  was arrested for the murder of Chris Hannon, and Stephanie's occupation caught the interest of the media, as it made for lurid headlines.<br /><br />Stephanie and Chris had not, apparently, liked for each other, and William and Chris were not considered to be close friends, though at one time, they had been superficially friendly. Chris disdained everything about Stephanie, and William had not apparently kept of with his share of his financial obligations as a roommate. This was a situation that was to hurl them all headlong into disaster, given the personalities involved. It was to end with the mutilated and burnt body of Chris Hatton finding itself laid out on a cold campfire in a park.<br /><br />The author masterfully weaves together the story of these three dissimilar people. She tells the story in a coherent, straightforward fashion, clearly presenting the known facts. While both Stephanie and William were charged with the murder, there is no clear resolution as to who was the actual killer, though it is clear that both Stephanie and William were complicit in the end result. Chris Hatton's family cooperated with the author, as did Stephanie, though she is currently serving a fifty year sentence for her part in the murder. Stephanie's cold-blooded telling of her version of the facts is truly chilling.<br /><br />This is an intriguing look a senseless murder that may have been nothing more than a thrill kill for the deluded duo of Stephanie Lynn Martin and William Busenburg. The book contains sixteen black and white photographs and will appeal to those readers who enjoy well-written books in the true crime genre.apparently kept of with his share of his financial obligations as a roommate. This was a situation that was to hurl them all headlong into disaster, given the personalities involved. It was to end with the mutilated and burnt body of Chris Hatton finding itself laid out on a cold campfire in a park.<br /><br />The author masterfully weaves together the story of these three dissimilar people. She tells the story in a coherent, straightforward fashion, clearly presenting the known facts. While both Stephanie and William were charged with the murder, there is no clear resolution as to who was the actual killer, though it is clear that both Stephanie and William were complicit in the end result. Chris Hatton's family cooperated with the author, as did Stephanie, though she is currently serving a fifty year sentence for her part in the murder. Stephanie's cold-blooded telling of her version of the facts is truly chilling.<br /><br />This is an intriguing look a senseless murder that may have been nothing more than a thrill kill for the deluded duo of Stephanie Lynn Martin and William Busenburg. The book contains sixteen black and white photographs and will appeal to those readers who enjoy well-written books in the true crime genre.	2004-08-22
547624:US	49355567	RUSZY4VWN30CE	0641500815	719432164	Stolen Lives: Twenty Years in a Desert Jail	Books	2	3	5	N	Y	A DISAPPOINTING OPRAH SELECTION...	This is a book that on its face held a lot of promise. Any story in which a mother and her children, as well as faithful family retainers, are unjustly imprisoned in squalid conditions for twenty years for an ostensible crime committed by the familial patriarch would certainly be of interest. Wrong! This is a tepid and disappointing book, poorly written and, most certainly, poorly edited. It is so filled with contradictions and inconsistencies, as to create somewhat of a credibility gap for the reader.<br /><br />The story revolves around the Oufkir family, who were, at one time, a prominent, highly respected, and well known Moroccan family. Their story is told by Malika Oufkir, who is the eldest daughter of the late General Oufkir, who was executed in August 1972, immediately following an aborted attempt to assassinate King Hassan II of Morocco, for whom he was the Minister of Defense. General's Oufkir's treasonous action was the catalyst for the tragic turn of events that were to engulf his family.<br /><br />After the aborted coup, the General's immediate family was placed under house arrest and four months later, along with two loyal family retainers who volunteered to share their fate, were whisked away to the first of several desert prisons that were to house them for the next fifteen years.<br /><br />As Malika tells it, hers was initially almost a fairy tale story. Brought up in luxurious surroundings, she suffered early heartbreak when, at the age of five, she was separated from her family and \\"adopted\\" by then King Muhammad V, so as to be a live in playmate for the King's daughter. This adoption is never really explained, and one has no idea what her parents' thoughts were on this issue. Malika lived in the Palace in the lap of luxury for many years. As a teenager, however, she moved back with her family, where, there, too, she continued to live a very privileged life, steeped in luxury and money.<br /><br />After the Oufkirs' circumstances changed, theirs is truly a tragic story. There is little doubt that the conditions in their desert prisons were deplorable and squalid. With inadequate sanitation, insufficient food, no medical care, or educational provisions, the family was truly living a life of privation. Cutoff from the outside world, as they were, they truly were disenfranchised.<br /><br />Their escape from their last desert prison, an escape that brought their plight to the consciousness of the public, was amazing. But for their escape, there is no doubt in my mind that they would still be languishing in a desert prison today, barely alive, if not already dead. I salute their determination and ingenuity in making a desperate break for freedom.<br /><br />The problem lies in the telling of the story, which is so poorly told. Many things are left unexplained. No effort is made to ground the events that led to their family's downfall in a historical context. Whatever Malika said seems to have been what went into the final draft of this book, even if she contradicted herself a page or two later, which is the main problem with the book. There are so many inconsistencies with what Malika herself says, that the discerning reader is left to question much of what she represents.<br /><br />Malika comes across as a somewhat self-absorbed, vapid woman to whom fate dealt a harsh and unusually cruel hand. Her self absorption is most evident in that she barely acknowledges the sacrifice of the two faithful family retainers, who voluntarily shared their fate, nor does she discuss the impact that this had on them. It is also a little disconcerting that more does not come through about the perceptions the other family members had about this hellish experience. Their insight might have provided a little more balance and interest to the narrative. In the hands of a good writer and and excellent editor, this book might have withstood scrutiny and met expectations.<br /><br />Sorry, Oprah, your book club selections are usuallyexcellent. This one fails to make the grade.excellent. This one fails to make the grade.	2004-08-22
547749:US	49355567	RE62OC5NP9GOP	3442712203	44642053	Tochter des Berges. Tragödie auf dem Nanda Devi.	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A HELLISH EXPEDITION...	This is the German text edition of a gripping chronicle of the 1976 Indo-American Nanda Devi Expedition which saw the author, Lou Reichardt, and Jim States summit Nanda Devi, a 26,000 foot plus peak located in the northwest frontier of India. They succeeded in making one of the most technically demanding climbs in the Himalayas.<br /><br />They also survived one of the most acrimonious and tragic of expeditions, as it ended with the needless death of Nanda Devi Unsoeld, daughter of mountaineering legend, Willi Unsoeld, who was co-leader of the expedition. Named after the mountain that her father so loved, Nanda Devi Unsoeld was consigned in death to her namesake. It was she who had been the driving force in the creation of the expedition, spurred on by her desire to climb the mountain for which she had been named, not knowing that death would await her on its slopes.<br /><br />This expedition, which was replete with mountaineering greats, started off on the wrong foot, as it had two co-leaders, Willi Unsoeld and Ad Carter, neither of whom was willing to take a real leadership role and make decisive decisions. This saw the expedition fracture into two groups, with a great deal of acrimony between the two, as a philosophical divide developed. The author paints a picture of what life was like on this expedition. It is a no holds barred portrait, warts and all, unflattering to the author, as well as to others on this expedition.<br /><br />While Roskelley was clearly a mountaineer of superior ability, as compared with others on the team, it is probable that his brusque manner helped to divide the expedition into what was perceived to be the \\"A\\" and \\"B\\" teams. It was the delivery, I surmise, and not the message, which rankled others and prompted them to behave badly which they, undoubtedly, did during the course of the expedition.<br /><br />What is inexplicable to me, however, is Willi Unsoeld's handling of his daughter's illness on the expedition, and his behavior at her mysterious and unexpected death on the mountain. One would expect more from an expedition leader, never mind a father. It is almost as if he relished consigning her to the mountain in death, with all its mystical implications. A sad end for a being who in life was beautiful and joyous, yet certainly the stuff around which legends are created. In fact, some believed that the goddess Nanda Devi had been reborn as Wlli Unsoeld's daughter, living as a mortal and unaware of her divinity, until she returned to her home, the mountain for which she had been named.<br /><br />The book is written in lean, spare prose, with enough mountaineering lore and tidbits to engage all climbing enthusiasts, as well as readers who simply love a good adventure story.her mysterious and unexpected death on the mountain. One would expect more from an expedition leader, never mind a father. It is almost as if he relished consigning her to the mountain in death, with all its mystical implications. A sad end for a being who in life was beautiful and joyous, yet certainly the stuff around which legends are created. In fact, some believed that the goddess Nanda Devi had been reborn as Wlli Unsoeld's daughter, living as a mortal and unaware of her divinity, until she returned to her home, the mountain for which she had been named.<br /><br />The book is written in lean, spare prose, with enough mountaineering lore and tidbits to engage all climbing enthusiasts, as well as readers who simply love a good adventure story.	2004-08-22
549610:US	49355567	R1MB957W5D3NEM	0316907782	969915907	Four Women of Havana	Books	5	0	1	N	N	THE REALITY OF ROMANTIC REVOLUTIONARY RHETORIC...	Hailed by the New York Times as a Notable Book of the Year when it was released in the United States under the title \\"Havana Dreams\\", this is a lyrically written chronicle of Cuba as seen through the eyes of the women of a prominent, yet notorious,  Cuban family.  It is also an elegant narrative of Cuba's past and its present, its good and its bad. Its  genesis is the Cuban-American author's own memories of a pre-Castro Cuba of the nineteen forties and fifties, still steeped in its colonial miasma, redolent of family, traditions, and a certain indolence that was reserved for those who lived the life of patrones. I was drawn to this book, as I am also a Cuban-American, and the author's memories in many ways are mine, as well.<br /><br />I was also intrigued by the intimate portrait of Castro's one time mistress, Naty Revuelta, and the history of her family as set against the backdrop of Cuba. I was interested in how her illicit relationship with a young, fiery revolutionary by the name of Fidel Castro would forever change her life and that of her family. Her family's fortunes and misfortunes parallel those of Cuba itself. Castro's own relationship with his island country would forever change Cuba also, turning it from a colonial paradise for the rich and well-to-do into a crumbling relic from the past, offspring of the mating between heady and romantic revolutionary rhetoric and reality.<br /><br />Engrossing and memorable in its telling, the author paints a poignant, and fully engaging portrait of Naty, her mother, Dona Natica, a Batista era socialite,  and Naty's two daughters, Alina and Nina, one of whom is the fruit of Naty's brief intimate relationship with Castro, the other the daughter of her cuckolded husband. Both her daughters are now expatriates, living in the United States. The story of Naty's family is presented in all its heartbreak and is artfully drawn against the grand panorama of what is modern  Cuban history. This is a masterful and luminous book that will appeal to those with an interest in Cuba, as well as to those who enjoy a well-written memoir, steeped in historical context. Bravo!hat will appeal to those with an interest in Cuba, as well as to those who enjoy a well-written memoir, steeped in historical context. Bravo!	2004-08-20
552726:US	49355567	R2MH5GBC4HTCW1	0788719858	8148905	The Climb : Tragic Ambitions on Everest	Books	3	1	1	N	N	CLIMB EVERY MOUNTAIN...	This is the story about the 1996 Everest tragedy told from the perspective of Anatoli Boukreev, who was one of the guides on the ill-fated Mountain Madness expedition led by Scott Fischer. It is written almost as a rebuttal to the perceived criticism by Jon Krakauer, author of \\"Into Thin Air\\", of Boukreev's actions on that ill-fated Everest climb.<br /><br />This is a poorly written account, which is oftentimes confusing. It has none of the clarity of prose found in Krakauer's \\"Into Thin Air\\". It is, however, an important chronicle from someone who was there on Everest, and who had a pivotal role in the tragic events. Boukreev provides an insider's view of the Mountain Madness expedition itself and of the preparations which go into such a journey. It is packed with many interesting details which will delight Everest junkies.<br /><br />Whether Boukreev's actions on the mountain were irresponsible, in that he did not use supplementary oxygen to summit and immediately returned to camp after summitting, rather than remain with the expedition's clients, or whether he was just following the orders of the expedition leader, Scott Fisher, who himself died on Everest, is an issue which will long be debated in mountaineering circles. There is no doubt, however, that Boukreev did, in fact, single handedly rescue three of the climbers during a raging blizzard; climbers who without his intervention would have died. Given the extreme weather conditions, his foray up the mountain to rescue climbers is nothing less than heroic.<br /><br />Boukreev's is an important voice in the Everest annals, more so now that his voice has been silenced. On Christmas day, 1997, Boukreev died in an avalanche on Annapurna. RIP.	2004-08-17
554430:US	49355567	RSXQM86HZJERU	0449227634	829916644	Katherine	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	A FOURTEENTH CENTURY LOVE STORY...	Written nearly half a century ago, this well-researched historical fiction is as vibrant and as stirring today, as it, undoubtedly, was when it was first written. A best seller in its day, the book regales the reader with the story of Katherine De Roet and John of Gaunt. Beautifully written, it tells the story of Katherine, the younger daughter of a herald who was knighted before he died in service to his king.<br /><br />Born commoners, Katherine and her older sister, Philippa, who went on to marry Geoffrey Chaucer, were left poor as church mice. While Philippa managed to obtain a post in the household of the Queen, wife to King Edward III of England, Katherine was sent to a convent where she grew up.<br /><br />When she had grown into her early teens and become a raving beauty, she left the convent to join her sister at Court. Upon doing so, her youthful beauty captivated a boorish knight, Sir Hugh Swynford, who lusted after her. He, eventually, married Katherine, when it became clear that it would be the only way by which he could satisfy his desire.<br /><br />At the same time that she met her husband to be, she also caught the eye of  John of Gaunt, the Duke of Lancaster, son of King Edward III and brother to the heir to the throne, Edward, the Black Prince. John was, at the time, happily  married to a beautiful woman named Blanche, who would befriend Katherine.<br /><br />After reluctantly becoming Lady Swynford, Katherine retired to her husband's estates. She would meet John of Gaunt again, igniting a passion that, upon the death of  Blanche and that of Sir Hugh Swynford, would be consummated.  For John of Gaunt, Katherine would remain the love of his life and become his mistress, even though, for reasons of state, he could not marry her, at the time.  He, instead, married the heiress to the throne of Castile.<br /><br />Still, Katherine remained with him, bearing him many children. Their illicit union was to cause much unrest and scandal throughout England, until they finally parted, only to reunite in their later years. John of Gaunt would then do something unprecedented. This act would bring them much happiness in their final years.<br /><br />This is a richly drawn portrait of a scintillating love affair in a time that was rife with political intrigue. Set in a medieval landscape with all the pageantry, strife, and turbulence that constituted fourteenth century England, this beautifully written narrative is peppered with those characters and individuals that made the period memorable. It is a novel to be savored and one with which the most discerning reader would be well satisfied. Bravo!until they finally parted, only to reunite in their later years. John of Gaunt would then do something unprecedented. This act would bring them much happiness in their final years.<br /><br />This is a richly drawn portrait of a scintillating love affair in a time that was rife with political intrigue. Set in a medieval landscape with all the pageantry, strife, and turbulence that constituted fourteenth century England, this beautifully written narrative is peppered with those characters and individuals that made the period memorable. It is a novel to be savored and one with which the most discerning reader would be well satisfied. Bravo!	2004-08-16
554523:US	49355567	R6VBY869ESIHT	8420400246	834087896	El azul de la Virgen (The Virgin Blue) (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	UN LIBRO DIVINO...	This is the Spanish text edition of a beautifully written debut novel. Exquisite in its imagery and clarity of language, the author tells two parallel tales. One takes place in sixteenth century France, during the Protestant reformation and religious persecution of the Huguenots (Protestants). The other takes place in present day France. There are historical ties that bind these two stories, as well as a haunting familial legacy that reaches out across time to makes itself felt in the present.<br /><br />The sixteenth century tale is based around a young woman, Isabelle du Moulin, who marries a boorish lout named Etienne Tournier, the oldest son of one of the more prominent families in their provincial town in France. She is a young woman upon whom the Virgin Mary made a great impression, when she was but a girl. The Tourniers, however, are believers of the new, harsh, Calvinist faith, and so Isabelle must also fully subscribe to it, if she is to survive in her husbands family and in the town in which she lives. When the St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre occurs, in which Huguenots are slain without mercy throughout all of France, Isabelle is forced to flee to safety with what remains of her husband's family. Unhappy in her marriage, she goes on to have an event occur in her life that is so tragic that her pain and sorrow is made palpable in the present, touching one of her ancestors, Ella Turner.<br /><br />Of course, the parallel tale focuses around Ella Turner, a young, married American woman, who moves to France with her husband Rick, in order to advance his career. Ella agrees to the move, because it will take her to the region in France from which she knows her family originated. Once in France, Emma has some difficulty acclimating to life in the small provincial town to which they have moved, as well as to its denizens. Ella also finds herself having inexplicable nightmares and begins to feel herself somewhat alienated from her husband.  To occupy her time, she  begins a quest to discover more about her French ancestry. As Ella's story unfolds, alternating with the parallel story of Isabelle, commonalities between the past and present begin to emerge. These parallel stories then converge in a stunning denouement to resolve a tragedy of the past in the present.<br /><br />The author combines historical fiction, suspense, romance, and touch of the supernatural all in one beautifully realized novel. The author writes with the heart of a poet and the soul of a great storyteller, one whose prose is delicately nuanced as she weaves gossamer threads of a tale well told. This is simply a superlative and stunning debut novel that will keep the reader turning its pages until the very last. Bravo!begins a quest to discover more about her French ancestry. As Ella's story unfolds, alternating with the parallel story of Isabelle, commonalities between the past and present begin to emerge. These parallel stories then converge in a stunning denouement to resolve a tragedy of the past in the present.<br /><br />The author combines historical fiction, suspense, romance, and touch of the supernatural all in one beautifully realized novel. The author writes with the heart of a poet and the soul of a great storyteller, one whose prose is delicately nuanced as she weaves gossamer threads of a tale well told. This is simply a superlative and stunning debut novel that will keep the reader turning its pages until the very last. Bravo!	2004-08-16
554662:US	49355567	R147ZHO9DQLEOP	2843371465	147299051	La-haut	Books	3	0	0	N	N	EVEREST AS A TROPHY MOUNTAIN...	This is the French text edition of yet another perspective of the 1996 Everest tragedy by a survivor of the fiasco. Written in journal style, the author at times frames her thoughts in a staccato, stream of consciousness, rambling fashion, coupled with new age psycho-babble. At other times, she intones in a pseudo-profound way about Everest. The author comes off as a silly, vapid individual.<br /><br />It is interesting to note that while the author refers to Scott Fischer's expedition, of which she was a member, as an environmental one with a mission to clean up the debris on Everest left by expeditioners, nowhere does she state what it was that those on Scott Fischer's expedition were going to do to ameliorate the mess on the mountain. While she climbs up and down Everest, acclimatizing herself, she does not appear to be doing anything that remotely resembles conservation or clean up. Nor does she indicate any affirmative interest in doing anything constructive to that end.<br /><br />She intones about the consequences of hubris up on the mountain. Yet, she, who had never before climbed Everest, was insisting that she would climb it without oxygen. She was even getting into arguments about it with Scott Fischer, who had the sense to tell her she would be climbing with oxygen. As it turned out, he was right. She could barely make it with oxygen. She should thank her lucky stars that he was so insistent that she climb with oxygen, otherwise she, too, would probably have died on Everest.<br /><br />She also incessantly refers to herself as a mountain climber, but she didn't even know what gear she should take, relying on the recommendations of others, and then criticizing their recommendations when they ran counter to her expectations. It is clear, no matter how she wants to dress up her reasons for climbing Everest, that it was just a trophy mountain for her. She hoped that climbing Everest would gild the path for her to some pseudo-celebrity status in her country of Denmark.<br /><br />Her take on Anatoli Boukreev is much more sympathetic than was Jon Krakauer's in his book Into Thin Air. She saw Anatoli as an asset and misunderstood because of his taciturn demeanor. Anatoli comes off very well in this account. In fact, her take on him is much more sympathetic than her take on Scott Fischer, in whom she was apparently disappointed as an expedition leader. I must say if she acted the way she described in her book, then Scott Fischer, who was a true mountaineer, must of been heartily sick of her bravado about climbing Everest without oxygen. Her inflated sense of self is truly staggering at times. When she talks about hubris, she would do well to look no further than her own mirror.<br /><br />Notwithstanding all of this, her account has some merit. As an Everest junkie, I found parts of her journal to be of interest, which is why I rated it three stars, rather than two.f Denmark.<br /><br />Her take on Anatoli Boukreev is much more sympathetic than was Jon Krakauer's in his book Into Thin Air. She saw Anatoli as an asset and misunderstood because of his taciturn demeanor. Anatoli comes off very well in this account. In fact, her take on him is much more sympathetic than her take on Scott Fischer, in whom she was apparently disappointed as an expedition leader. I must say if she acted the way she described in her book, then Scott Fischer, who was a true mountaineer, must of been heartily sick of her bravado about climbing Everest without oxygen. Her inflated sense of self is truly staggering at times. When she talks about hubris, she would do well to look no further than her own mirror.<br /><br />Notwithstanding all of this, her account has some merit. As an Everest junkie, I found parts of her journal to be of interest, which is why I rated it three stars, rather than two.	2004-08-16
554827:US	49355567	R3U9IMNZG97T99	9507312765	957866734	El Perfume (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	AN INGENIOUS AND DAZZLING WORK OF FICTION...	This is the Spanish text edition of a novel so beautifully written that it transcends into literature. Ingenious in its conception and carefully crafted, the author has created a unique and dazzling work of fiction. Divided into three parts, the book tells the story of a most unusual life, that of Jean-Baptiste Grenouille.<br /><br />The first part of the book establishes that he was born to a woman who was hung from a gibbet for having left him to die. It turns out that Jean-Baptiste is an unusual baby. He gives people the willies, because, unlike most babies, Jean-Baptiste has no scent.<br /><br />Over time, Jean-Baptiste develops into a boy with a secret gift. His olfactory sense is developed to a degree unheard of in humans. He delights in parsing the odors around him. Ugly, friendless, and a loner, he eventually ventures into the city of Paris, a malodorous and pungent cornucopia of smells. Believe me, there is plenty to sniff out in eighteenth century Paris! Jean-Baptiste savors each whiff, and the book conveys these olfactory delights with meticulous, descriptive precision.<br /><br />His bleak existence is transformed, however, when he one day captures a heady scent of such exquisite beauty that he finds himself obsessed with it. Determined to have that scent at all costs, he eventually sniffs it out. It turns out to be the scent of a young virgin on the cusp of flowering into a woman. It is a scent that he must possess. What he does to do so will surely chill the reader.<br /><br />The second part of the book begins when Jean-Baptiste leave his employer and goes on a personal pilgrimage, leading an austere existence away from civilization for many years. There, he withdraws into himself even further, living a totally self-sustaining, hermitic existence. He ultimately realizes what other have sensed about him. Jean-Baptiste has no personal scent. He simply does not smell.<br /><br />With this knowledge, he returns to civilization where, having lived as practically an animal for many years, he creates a fictitious and adventurous scenario to account for his filthy and disgusting appearance. Subsequently, he is taken under the wing of some local nobility and feted and pampered. Realizing the importance of scent, he creates a personal scent for himself. He now realizes that he who has the power over scent can rule supreme. He intends to do so.<br /><br />The third part of the book has Jean-Baptiste migrating to a town that is the hub for the scent trade. Perfumes, oils, and soaps are the stock in trade for this town and, as such, beckon brightly to Jean-Baptiste. Once there, he again smells a scent so delectable that he longs to possess it. He knows that scent for what it is and now knows that it is the scent, and not the personal charms of its bearer, that captures the attention and devotion of others. Jean Baptiste wants to harness that scent at all costs. He desperately desires the power to make others love him. He wants to be supreme.<br /><br />It is his desperate desire to harness and possess that celestial scent that causes Jean-Baptiste, a socio-path with little empathy for others, to prey upon the maidens of the town in order to obtain that which he needs. It is his obsession that lays at the heart of the vortex that arises in the town, as murder after murder occurs. Yet, no one suspects him.<br /><br />What ultimately happens leads to an almost unbelievable climax, when Jean-Baptiste finds himself consumed by the passion he has managed to arouse in others through scent. This is a heady, quirky, and compelling debut novel, like nothing I have ever before read. Complex and lyrical in its telling, it is a novel that stays with the reader long after the last page is turned.  Bravo!ically an animal for many years, he creates a fictitious and adventurous scenario to account for his filthy and disgusting appearance. Subsequently, he is taken under the wing of some local nobility and feted and pampered. Realizing the importance of scent, he creates a personal scent for himself. He now realizes that he who has the power over scent can rule supreme. He intends to do so.<br /><br />The third part of the book has Jean-Baptiste migrating to a town that is the hub for the scent trade. Perfumes, oils, and soaps are the stock in trade for this town and, as such, beckon brightly to Jean-Baptiste. Once there, he again smells a scent so delectable that he longs to possess it. He knows that scent for what it is and now knows that it is the scent, and not the personal charms of its bearer, that captures the attention and devotion of others. Jean Baptiste wants to harness that scent at all costs. He desperately desires the power to make others love him. He wants to be supreme.<br /><br />It is his desperate desire to harness and possess that celestial scent that causes Jean-Baptiste, a socio-path with little empathy for others, to prey upon the maidens of the town in order to obtain that which he needs. It is his obsession that lays at the heart of the vortex that arises in the town, as murder after murder occurs. Yet, no one suspects him.<br /><br />What ultimately happens leads to an almost unbelievable climax, when Jean-Baptiste finds himself consumed by the passion he has managed to arouse in others through scent. This is a heady, quirky, and compelling debut novel, like nothing I have ever before read. Complex and lyrical in its telling, it is a novel that stays with the reader long after the last page is turned.  Bravo!	2004-08-16
554866:US	49355567	R1CY22TSQO8U9T	0792724321	316982155	As Nature Made Him	Books	5	1	1	N	N	NO HAPPY ENDINGS...	This is a wonderfully written book and a fascinating look into the debate of nature versus nurture in the area of gender assignment. Intelligent and insightful, the author draws a compassionate portrait of a family who, faced with a decision in the wake of a tragedy, relies upon the advice of a well-respected doctor, which reliance turned out to be misplaced. The book details the aftermath of the family's fateful decision and the impact it was to have on them all.<br /><br />In August 1965, Canadians Janet and Ron Reimer gave birth to identical twin boys, whom they named Brian and Bruce. When they were about eight months old, they arranged to have them circumcised due to a medical condition that caused them pain during urination. Circumcision was to remedy the problem. Little did they know that the circumcision for Bruce would be botched, resulting in the loss of his penis.<br /><br />A plastic surgeon with whom the Reimers had consulted in connection with the catastrophe that had struck Bruce had spoken to a sex researcher who had recommended that they raise Bruce as a girl. Doctors at the Mayo Clinic had suggested that they ought to get a second opinion with regards to that suggestion. The parents  then consulted with a doctor affiliated with John Hopkins Hospital, Dr. John Money, a renowned  doctor in the area of gender transformation, who had been the driving force behind the then controversial surgical gender re-assignment procedure for which the hospital was becoming known.<br /><br />In 1967, the distraught parents met with Dr. Money and shortly after, Bruce became Brenda and clinical castration followed. Thus, their child, who genetically and anatomically had been born a boy, was for all extent and purposes now deemed to be a girl. Brian was now on the other side of the gender divide of his identical twin brother, the twin formerly known as Bruce.<br /><br />Moreover, Dr. Money now had a dream scientific experiment, because he had a set of twins for which the unafflicted twin could act as a control by which to measure the afflicted one. In 1972, Dr. Money disclosed his \\"twins case\\" to the medical world, giving a slanted version of the experiment that made it appear to be an unqualified success. Unfortunately, his analysis of the situation did not disclose the difficulties that Brenda was having and her seeming inability to adjust to being a girl.<br /><br />Apparently, though Brenda had no idea as she was growing up that she had originally been born a boy, she never felt that she was a girl. Years of follow-up visits with Dr. Money for both twins proved to be unsettling for them, as Dr. Money employed somewhat bizarre methods and procedures. Moreover, as Brenda grew older, she would resist additional surgeries and initially resisted the hormone therapy that was introduced on the eve of puberty. Even when confronted with a totally rebellious Brenda, Dr. Money, however,  remained in denial about the failure of his experiment. He would continue to tout his treatment of Brenda as an unqualified success.<br /><br />It was not until March of 1980 that Brenda was finally informed by her father about what had happened to her years ago and what had been decided in light of the circumstances. It was a revelation that was to dramatically change Brenda's life. What followed was a repudiation of Dr. Money's assertions with respect to his treatment. The book details the changes that Brenda was to make in her life, changes that would find her living the life she was originally meant to lead. Brenda would now become David and live the life of a male. Unfortunately, happiness would continue to elude him.<br /><br />This is a simply wonderful, intimate look at a family that survived a hideous tragedy. It also sympathetically and sensitively details the personal  journey of one family through the labyrinthine differences in opinion surrounding the age old debate over nature versus nature. I would certainly assert that nature, and not nurture, controls. This is a very well thought out book on the issue, grounded in the experience of one family. Bravo!ture, controls. This is a very well thought out book on the issue, grounded in the experience of one family. Bravo!	2004-08-16
554915:US	49355567	R14HWYYYMATI6V	0671510126	412606618	The Good Earth (Enriched Classics)	Books	5	15	17	N	N	A PULITZER PRIZE WINNING CLASSIC...	This 1932 Pulitzer Prize winning novel is still a standout today. Deceptive in its simplicity, it is a story built around a flawed human being and a teetering socio-economic system, as well as one that is layered  with profound themes. The cadence of the author's  writing is also of note, as it rhythmically lends itself to the telling of the story, giving it a very distinct voice. No doubt the author's writing style was influenced by her own immersion in Chinese culture, as she grew up and lived in China, the  daughter of missionaries.<br /><br />This is the story of the cyclical nature of life, of the passions and desires that motivate a human being, of good and evil, and of the desire to survive and thrive against great odds. It begins with the story of an illiterate, poor, peasant farmer,  Wang Lung, who ventures from the rural countryside  and goes to town to the great house of Hwang to obtain a bride from those among the rank of slave. There, he is given the slave O-lan as his bride.<br /><br />Selfless, hardworking, and a bearer of sons, the plain-faced O-lan supports Wang Lung's veneration of the land and his desire to acquire more land. She stays with him through thick and thin, through famine and very lean times, working alongside him on the land, making great sacrifices,  and raising his children. As a family, they weather the tumultuousness of pre-revolutionary China in the 1920s, only to find themselves the recipient of  riches beyond their dreams. At the first opportunity, they buy land from the great house of Hwang, whose expenses appear to be exceeding their income.<br /><br />With the passing of time, Wang Lung buys more and more land from the house of Hwang, until he owns it all,  as his veneration of the land is always paramount. With O-lan at this side, his family continues to prosper. His life becomes more complicated, however, the richer he gets. Wang Lung  then commits a life-changing act that pierces O-lan's heart in the most profoundly heartbreaking way.<br /><br />As the years pass, his sons become educated and literate, and the family continues to prosper. With the great house of Hwang on the skids, an opportunity to buy their house, the very same house from where he had fetched O-lan many years ago, becomes available. Pressed upon to buy that house by his sons, who do not share Wang Lung's veneration for the land and rural life, he buys the house. The country mice now have become the city mice.<br /><br />This is a potent story, brimming with irony, yet simply told against a framework of mounting social change. It is a story that  stands as a parable in many ways and is one that certainly should be read. It illustrates the timeless dichotomy between the young and the old, the old and the new, and the rich and the poor. It is no wonder that this beautifully written book won a Pulitzer Prize and is considered a classic masterpiece. Bravo!reaking way.<br /><br />As the years pass, his sons become educated and literate, and the family continues to prosper. With the great house of Hwang on the skids, an opportunity to buy their house, the very same house from where he had fetched O-lan many years ago, becomes available. Pressed upon to buy that house by his sons, who do not share Wang Lung's veneration for the land and rural life, he buys the house. The country mice now have become the city mice.<br /><br />This is a potent story, brimming with irony, yet simply told against a framework of mounting social change. It is a story that  stands as a parable in many ways and is one that certainly should be read. It illustrates the timeless dichotomy between the young and the old, the old and the new, and the rich and the poor. It is no wonder that this beautifully written book won a Pulitzer Prize and is considered a classic masterpiece. Bravo!	2004-08-16
555435:US	49355567	R1PLBR4DNFHZG4	1898865493	571414368	Dark Shadows Falling	Books	4	9	11	N	Y	ETHICS IN THE MOUNTAINS...	Joe Simpson writes from the heart. He is clearly a man, as well as a mountaineer, of conscience. It is about time someone put into words, what many people are undoubtedly thinking. He explores the ethics of some of the bad behavior being exhibited today by some so called mountaineers. While the writing may be a little choppy at times, his message is a powerful one.<br /><br />Conservationists should take heart. The author is disgusted by the conditions found on formerly pristine mountains. The once unsullied beauty of many of nature's wonders is being fouled by human detritus. The amount of garbage being left behind on Mount Everest by expeditioners is disgusting. Get off Everest, if you cannot or will not clean up after yourselves. There is no maid service on Mount Everest!<br /><br />The author tackles head on the deplorable way that Sherpas and other native peoples are treated by expeditioners. Often ill clothed and ill equipped for the harsh climatic conditions found at higher altitudes, there is evidence of little regard for their welfare. In catering to an expeditioner's needs, however, these are the very people who make it possible for expeditioners to attain a certain level of physical comfort. Yet, when disaster strikes, they are often left to die by the mountainside by members of a throwaway society. How quickly some forget that it is the Sherpas who make expeditions possible, and who are oftentimes the unsung heroes when a calamity occurs. Talk about a thankless job!<br /><br />It is incredible that human beings are so easily discarded, as if they were nothing more than a disposable can of soda. Putting a higher value on material goods, which can easily be replaced, or on a so called thrill over the life a fellow human being is one of Joe's pet peeves and rightly so! It is always startling to read that a climber has passed over or by the body of a still living, sentient human being, who is in distress or at the cusp of death, and not offered any assistance or succor to that person, but instead has raced on to try and summit or even just returned to one's relatively warm tent under the premise that there isn't much one can do. You have to wonder at the total self-absorption and lack of humanity inherent in that person. Joe calls these people to task in no uncertain terms.<br /><br />Joe Simpson's feelings about mountaineering recall to mind some of those voiced by world class climber and Chamonix guide, Gaston Rebuffat, in his book \\"Starlight and Storm'. They both seem to share the same purity of vision and exultation in the climb itself. They both seem to share a belief in the brotherhood of the rope. Unfortunately, Gaston Rebuffat is no longer amongst us. One can only hope that Joe Simpson is not a lone voice crying in the wilderness.e or succor to that person, but instead has raced on to try and summit or even just returned to one's relatively warm tent under the premise that there isn't much one can do. You have to wonder at the total self-absorption and lack of humanity inherent in that person. Joe calls these people to task in no uncertain terms.<br /><br />Joe Simpson's feelings about mountaineering recall to mind some of those voiced by world class climber and Chamonix guide, Gaston Rebuffat, in his book \\"Starlight and Storm'. They both seem to share the same purity of vision and exultation in the climb itself. They both seem to share a belief in the brotherhood of the rope. Unfortunately, Gaston Rebuffat is no longer amongst us. One can only hope that Joe Simpson is not a lone voice crying in the wilderness.	2004-08-15
556109:US	49355567	R3EHL5HNV9CY66	0333761197	579745872	The Fog	Books	5	38	40	N	N	BE AFRAID...BE VERY AFRAID...	This is a superlative, well-crafted horror story with quite an original storyline. Taking place in foggy, old England, a dense, yellowish fog suddenly arises from the bowels of the earth, infiltrating the minds of all whom it envelops and removing all restraint. Suddenly, formerly sane individuals find themselves acting as if they were beings out of Dante's Inferno. It is a disaster from which there is seemingly no end.<br /><br />As the fog moves from place to place, it leaves in its wake a swath of grisly devastation, as murder, rape, mass suicide, and looting become a way of life. Even animals succumb to the fog, which turns treasured pets into killers that their owners cannot control. Only one man has managed to emerge with his sanity still intact, and a group of scientists in an underground laboratory are laboring to find out the reason for his seeming immunity. For in him lies the secret to the fog's destruction and the liberation of mankind from the effects of the fog. Time, however, is of the essence and is running out.<br /><br />This is really a terrific novel, well-paced, tautly written, and totally absorbing. It is an absolute page turner, with scenes of horror written in a spare, no nonsense, matter of fact style, making it all the more believable and horrific, all while tinged by a trace of dark humor. The tension is crisply maintained throughout the entire book from start to finish, which makes for a riveting read that is hard to put down. This is a must read for all those who love a good horror story. Bravo!	2004-08-14
556111:US	49355567	R2Y0TZCV5DUZZF	0515034428	538617501	The Winthrop Woman	Books	5	8	8	N	N	THE PURITAN LEGACY IN AMERICA...	This is a dazzling work of historical fiction that I first read as a young adult. Now, over thirty years after first reading it, I find that time has not diminished the power and passion of this exquisitely written work of historical fiction. At the heart of this fine novel, is Elizabeth Fones, an Englishwoman  who would marry her first cousin, Harry Winthrop, and would go on to lead a life of which few of us would dream.<br /><br />As a member of the austerely Puritan Winthrop family, Elizabeth would chafe under its restrictive influences. When the family fortunes abated in England due to the religious beliefs of the family patriarch, John Winthrop, Elizabeth's uncle and father-in-law, the entire family sets off for the New World to become founding members of the Massachusetts Bay colony, a theocracy under which Elizabeth was to know much heartache.<br /><br />A passionate and vibrant woman, Elizabeth would have a number of personal situations that would cause her to become notorious amongst the Puritan colonists. She would be both reviled and admired for her actions, which were singular for those times. This is an absorbing, page turner of a book that takes a look at sixteenth century England during the tumultuous time that preceded the civil war that would see an act of regicide and the rise of Puritan Oliver Cromwell. It also relates the turmoil that underlay the government of the nascent Massachusetts Bay colony with all its factionalism, restrictive practices, and bigotry.<br /><br />The novel, set against a historical backdrop filled with well known  personages of the time, both English and Dutch, lovingly chronicles and explores Elizabeth's passage in life as a member of the illustrious Winthrop family, her troubled marriages, her relationship with the Siwanot Indians, and the trials and tribulations that she underwent as a compassionate, independent woman in a time when to be such was to destine oneself to become a pariah within the larger community.<br /><br />This is a historical novel that is epic in its telling, beautifully written, and one to be savored until the very last page is turned. Bravo!br />This is a historical novel that is epic in its telling, beautifully written, and one to be savored until the very last page is turned. Bravo!	2004-08-14
556249:US	49355567	R1BSH67OYV2NR0	1560549076	785211620	My Theodesia	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A POIGNANT PORTRAIT OF AARON BURR'S DAUGHTER...	Having read this well-written book many years ago and having thoroughly enjoyed it, I decided it was time to pay an old friend another visit and re-read it. Time has certainly not diminished the capacity of this book to entertain the reader.<br /><br />The talented author deftly weaves the gossamer threads of history with fiction, creating a tapestry that tells the reader of the tragic life of Theodosia, beloved  daughter and only child of the notorious Aaron Burr. Written by a master storyteller, it is an enjoyable and poignant portrait of Theodosia. While her life was tragic in many respects, the book tells a compelling story of a young woman whose name would forever remain in the annals of history.	2004-08-14
556419:US	49355567	RYP6KOHE5NIQT	0340823186	953913428	Miracle at St. Anna	Books	3	3	4	N	N	BUFFALO SOLDIERS OF THE 92ND DIVISION...	The author, who penned the classic international bestseller, \\"The Color of Water: A Black Man's Tribute to His White Mother\\", and was the recipient of the prestigious Anisfield-Wolf Book Award, now turns to a story inspired by an incident that took place during World War II in the war torn, Italian village of St. Anna di Stazzema in the region of Tuscany. This is a war yarn with a twist, as it features a certain segment of our nation's army at the time, the Buffalo Soldiers of the 92nd Division.<br /><br />The Buffalo soldiers were men of color in the segregated army of yesteryear. On top of fighting enemy soldiers, they were also subjected not only  to racist stereotyping but to poor battle decisions by their white commanding officers, which decisions reflected just how dispensable the army thought these Buffalo soldiers to be. This is a story primarily viewed through the eyes of these very soldiers.<br /><br />In the town of St. Anna di Stazzema, something very bad happened, something that would affect all those who would encounter those connected to the town and its events. It would affect Germans,  Americans,  Italians, partisans, and collaborators in different ways. Its impact would carry through the years and last until the present day.<br /><br />This is a story about those Buffalo soldiers, the village in Tuscany nestled in a war zone, the enemy soldiers, villagers, collaborators, and partisans whom they encounter.  At the heart of all that transpires is a little Italian boy, traumatized by war, whose fate would touch all with whom he came in contact and who would be at the heart of the miracle that was to take place. It is through him that they all learn that miracles do, indeed, exist.<br /><br />The book gets off to a great start.  In  present day New York, an older postal worker, for seemingly no reason, blows away a customer at point blank range with the single pull of a trigger. An investigative reporter runs with a lead and finds that the postal worker has, hidden in his home,  a famous piece of statuary, an exquisitely sculpted head, which has been missing from a bridge in Italy since World War II. The mystery deepens.<br /><br />The book then reverts to World War II and the cast of characters that are central to the story. It is here that the author runs into some difficulties. When a number of Buffalo soldiers get caught behind enemy lines, the story start to fall apart. Though it is an interesting story, it is simply dully told.  Excruciatingly pedestrian in its telling, the book takes its toll on the reader, turning what could have been a vivid, riveting account into a soporific one.<br /><br />It is not until towards the end of the book that the story again picks up and is able to deliver the same one two punch that it does in the beginning. By then, however, it is too late, and the book never reaches the promise so incipient in its beginning pages. Still, for those readers willing to put up with some disappointment, the book ultimately delivers at the end.r has, hidden in his home,  a famous piece of statuary, an exquisitely sculpted head, which has been missing from a bridge in Italy since World War II. The mystery deepens.<br /><br />The book then reverts to World War II and the cast of characters that are central to the story. It is here that the author runs into some difficulties. When a number of Buffalo soldiers get caught behind enemy lines, the story start to fall apart. Though it is an interesting story, it is simply dully told.  Excruciatingly pedestrian in its telling, the book takes its toll on the reader, turning what could have been a vivid, riveting account into a soporific one.<br /><br />It is not until towards the end of the book that the story again picks up and is able to deliver the same one two punch that it does in the beginning. By then, however, it is too late, and the book never reaches the promise so incipient in its beginning pages. Still, for those readers willing to put up with some disappointment, the book ultimately delivers at the end.	2004-08-14
556569:US	49355567	R26R9XT85OO9TW	3401049275	449163592	Der Everest. Zum Greifen nah. ( Ab 12 J.).	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A TEEN TRIUMPHS ON EVEREST...	This is the German text edition of a terrific book for teens, young adults, and, yes, adults about a Rhode Island teenager, Mark Pfetzer, who makes his dreams come true. The book is written as if it were a personal journal, and in it Mark takes the reader on a journey into his young life. He shares with the reader how his interest in climbing developed, as well as his early climbing experiences.<br />This German text edition will allow speakers of German to share his adventures.<br /><br />Mark, mature in many ways beyond his years, is not your typical teenager. Clean cut, intelligent, fit, and not given to peer pressure, he is a bit of a loner with a dash of entrepreneurial flair. As his climbing experience increases, so does his desire for snow capped peaks. This desire motivates him to get sponsors for his world wide travels that take him to the vast mountainous regions around the globe. Mind you, he begins his world wide travels, unaccompanied by his parents, at the ripe old age of thirteen.<br /><br />While one may question the wisdom of letting someone so young travel around the world to do high altitude climbing, it does not diminish the pleasure one derives from reading about a young person who derives such joy from his travels and climbing. While at times Mark seems a little full of himself, one must remember that, notwithstanding his achievements, he is still a teenager, and, like most teenagers, he has his moments.<br /><br />Still, his chronicle makes for a very interesting read. His endeavors on high altitude peaks, including Everest, are noteworthy, notwithstanding that he climbed with guided expeditions. While towards the end of his journal he may appear to be suffering from trophy mountain madness, it does not diminish the palpable love of climbing that permeates the pages of the book.<br /><br />Mark is, without a doubt, a son of whom any parent would be proud. I am sure that he will continue to live his life to the fullest. I look forward to reading about any future adventures that he may commit to paper. Dream on, Mark, and may all your dreams come true.g about any future adventures that he may commit to paper. Dream on, Mark, and may all your dreams come true.	2004-08-14
556702:US	49355567	R1GVTEMA58PQ6B	2841112861	75228084	La Couleur de l'eau (nouvelle Ãdition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A VALENTINE FOR MOM...	This book, a French text edition, is, indeed, a tribute to the author's mother. In it, the author, a man whose mother was white and his father black, tells two stories: that of his mother and his own. Tautly written in spare, clear prose, it is a wonderful story of a bi-racial family who succeeded and achieved the American dream, despite the societal obstacles placed in its way.<br /><br />The author's mother was a Polish Orthodox Jew who migrated to America at the age of two with her family  during the early nineteen twenties. They ultimately settled down in Virginia, where she led an isolated and lonely life; shunned by whites because she was Jewish and shunned by blacks because she was white. She was raised in a predominantly black neighborhood, where her father, a despicable and harsh man who brutalized his handicapped wife, ran a local grocery store, where he priced gouged his black clientele.<br /><br />She left home and moved to New York when she was nineteen and never looked back. She met and married the author's father, a black man, when mixed race marriages were still frowned upon by both whites and blacks. Still, she always felt more comfortable around blacks than around whites. When he died sixteen years later, she married another black man who nurtured her eight children by the author's father and proceeded to give her four more children.<br /><br />The author tells of his childhood, of his family, and of the issue of race that ultimately colored his life while growing up in predominantly black neighborhoods, where his mother stood out like a sore thumb because of the color of her skin. It was always an issue his mother avoided discussing with him, as for her it was not an issue. It was not until the author wrote this book that his mother discussed the issue of race within the context of her own life.  From this dialogue emerges a fascinating look at the issues of race, as well as religion, and how it impacts on an individual's identity within our race conscious society.<br /><br />It is also a very personal story. While the author's family was economically disadvantaged, his eccentric and  independent mother always stressed education. She was a strict disciplinarian who brooked no nonsense from her twelve children. A convert to Christianity through her first husband, with whom she founded a Baptist church, she provided her children with the will to succeed.  Consequently, all twelve eventually went to college and did her proud. The story of this unique family is told from two distinct, parallel perspectives: that of the author and that of his mother. While both are interesting, it is his mother's story that dominates this beautifully written book, which is, indeed, a tribute to her. It is truly a story told from the heart, as the love that the author has for his mother is evident with every written word.conscious society.<br /><br />It is also a very personal story. While the author's family was economically disadvantaged, his eccentric and  independent mother always stressed education. She was a strict disciplinarian who brooked no nonsense from her twelve children. A convert to Christianity through her first husband, with whom she founded a Baptist church, she provided her children with the will to succeed.  Consequently, all twelve eventually went to college and did her proud. The story of this unique family is told from two distinct, parallel perspectives: that of the author and that of his mother. While both are interesting, it is his mother's story that dominates this beautifully written book, which is, indeed, a tribute to her. It is truly a story told from the heart, as the love that the author has for his mother is evident with every written word.	2004-08-14
556902:US	49355567	R3H1FG3NWH4WQN	0743217217	752765994	Kate Hannigan's Girl: A Novel	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A TEPID OFFERING BY A WONDERFUL AUTHOR...	In this, her one hundredth published novel, the author takes a nosedive. For the legions of Catherine Cookson fans, it would have been better not to posthumously publish this mediocre novel and let the author rest in peace on her well deserved laurels. Catherine Cookson was a wonderful storyteller, but this book falls a bit short of her previous high marks.<br /><br />Set in early twentieth century England, this is the story of Annie Hannigan, a girl who, through her mother's marriage to a wealthy country doctor, went from rags to riches. A flaxen haired, blue eyed beauty, Annie has her share of heartache when the boy she loves, Terence MacBane, seems elusive and out of reach. Her heartbreak is compounded when a vicious acquaintance, Cathleen Davidson, makes it her business to try and see that Annie and Terence never get together by putting Terence into her predatory crosshairs. Who shall be the victor? I am afraid that you will have to read the book and find out.<br /><br />The usual themes found in a Catherine Cookson novel are found in this one, as well. Class conflicts, as well as romance and familial ties, abound. Unfortunately, the characters are not particularly well drawn, and the reader will find it difficult to care about what happens to any of them. It reads more like a work in progress. Unless one is already a Catherine Cookson devotee, one will find it difficult to find this book of interest.	2004-08-14
556906:US	49355567	R3NM2UBXPZQP9H	0812503759	387786715	Soft and Others: 16 Stories of Wonder and Dread	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A LITTLE BIT OF THIS AND THAT...	This is an excellent  compilation of the author's short stories, which were written between 1969 and 1987. The author, who has since gone on to fame and fortune, having written a number of best sellers, among them \\"The Tomb\\", \\"The Touch\\", and \\"The Keep\\",  writes a brief, yet interesting,  introduction to each of the sixteen stories, telling the reader the genesis and history of each one.<br /><br />The stories range from the macabre to the odd, with unexpected twists and turns. These can be categorized as being of the horror genre of fiction.  The book also features some stories that fall squarely into the science fiction genre. No matter the genre, they are all edgy, clever, and clearly a labor of love by the author.  For those unfamiliar with the work of the author, this is an excellent introduction, as these brief, well written stories will give the reader a thirst for more.	2004-08-14
560103:US	49355567	R1ZBEC1O4O74LZ	B00007G2Y7	489933900	Us News & World Report - Regular ed	Books	5	16	16	N	N	ALL THE NEWS THAT'S FIT TO PRINT...	Of the three major, weekly news magazines, Time, Newsweek, and U. S. News and World Report, this is probably the best of the three in terms of its news reportage. It gives fairly balanced, objective reporting of the news, and its uncluttered format makes it easy to read. Its articles are often accompanied by first rate photographs and illustrations.<br /><br />Glossy and well designed, U.S. News and World Report is a weekly news magazine that gives a succinct summary of all national and international events. It gives about as much in depth coverage as one may expect of a weekly magazine and contains informative, well written articles. I also find its articles to be less slanted politically than those found in Time or Newsweek, its prime competitors.<br /><br />All in all, it is a value packed, first rate news magazine, and, as a subscriber, I look forward to receiving it each and every week.	2004-08-10
561810:US	49355567	R12OZK9F166UHZ	0312951582	531552716	Honky Tonk Angel: The Intimate Story Of Patsy Cline	Books	3	11	21	N	Y	PATSY CLINE: THE MONEY...THE MEN...THE MUSIC...	This biography, with a foreword by the late Dottie West, captures much of the feeling of the era in which its subject lived and grew up, as well as the state of the music industry of the time. The book has a more difficult time capturing the essence of its subject, Patsy Cline, the hard living, hard loving, country diva who would become known as one of the most emotive voices in the history of country music. In her too short career, cut prematurely in a plane crash, she managed to put together a notable roster of musical hits and was a crossover sensation, with hits in both the country and pop charts of the time.<br /><br />The book is chock full of information, much of it interesting, if one is interested primarily in the music that Ms. Cline sang. One comes away from reading this book with a good appreciation of the music industry of the time and a great deal of information about the songs that were to propel Ms. Cline to stardom, as it is exceedingly well-researched and contains a complete compendium of her songs.<br /><br />As to the subject of this biography, the author has done little more than string together many quotes from those who knew Ms. Cline, with little or no analysis or insight in the mix. The author has also included some of Ms. Cline's personal correspondence.  These reminiscences, while interesting, are sometimes  repetitive, and the book could have benefited by more artful editing and better writing. Still, a portrait of the struggling artist with too little money and too many men emerges from the pages of this book. Those who are die hard fans of Ms. Cline will gain a modicum of enjoyment from reading this book, which includes eight pages of black and white photographs.	2004-08-08
561966:US	49355567	R78DQQHMGV5JC	0679750703	202923996	Havana Dreams: A Story of a Cuban Family	Books	5	6	6	N	N	PORTRAIT OF A CUBAN FAMILY...	Hailed by the New York Times as a Notable Book of the Year when it was first released, this is a lyrically written chronicle of Cuba as seen through the eyes of the women of a prominent, yet notorious,  Cuban family.  It is also an elegant narrative of Cuba's past and its present, its good and its bad. Its  genesis is the Cuban-American author's own memories of a pre-Castro Cuba of the nineteen forties and fifties, still steeped in its colonial miasma, redolent of family, traditions, and a certain indolence that was reserved for those who lived the life of patrones. I was drawn to this book, as I am also a Cuban-American, and the author's memories in many ways are mine, as well.<br /><br />I was also intrigued by the intimate portrait of Castro's one time mistress, Naty Revuelta, and the history of her family as set against the backdrop of Cuba. I was interested in how her illicit relationship with a young, fiery revolutionary by the name of Fidel Castro would forever change her life and that of her family. Her family's fortunes and misfortunes parallel those of Cuba itself. Castro's own relationship with his island country would forever change Cuba also, turning it from a colonial paradise for the rich and well-to-do into a crumbling relic from the past, offspring of the mating between heady and romantic revolutionary rhetoric and reality.<br /><br />Engrossing and memorable in its telling, the author paints a poignant, and fully engaging portrait of Naty, her mother, Dona Natica, a Batista era socialite,  and Naty's two daughters, Alina and Nina, one of whom is the fruit of Naty's brief intimate relationship with Castro, the other the daughter of her cuckolded husband. Both her daughters are now expatriates, living in the United States. The story of Naty's family is presented in all its heartbreak and is artfully drawn against the grand panorama of what is modern  Cuban history. This is a masterful and luminous book that will appeal to those with an interest in Cuba, as well as to those who enjoy a well-written memoir, steeped in historical context. Bravo!ba, as well as to those who enjoy a well-written memoir, steeped in historical context. Bravo!	2004-08-08
562162:US	49355567	R4NDMVEWKWVNX	0060922117	194950384	Patsy: The Life and Times of Patsy Cline	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	HONKY TONK ANGEL...	This is an excellent biography of Patsy Cline, the crossover sensation who would blaze a trail of hits across the country and pop charts of her time. This hard living,  hard loving, country diva would become known as one of the most emotive voices in the history of popular music. This book chronicles her life, grounding it in the context out of which she emerged. Well-researched and lovingly written, it paints a portrait of both the artist and the woman.<br /><br />There is little doubt that Ms. Cline had a hard scrabble childhood. Yet, despite her struggle to gain musical recognition in an era in which female country singers were really no more than backdrops for the men and ripe for exploitation by record industry professionals, Patsy Cline's belief in her talent would help her overcome the odds. She would  go on to become one of most popular singers of all time, country or pop.<br /><br />The author manages to paint a portrait of Ms. Cline that will resonate with the reader. A honky tonk angel who would brook nothing and no one in her way, Patsy Cline was a generous, outspoken, and tough country gal who knew she could sing and would not allow the sexist attitudes of the time to paint her into a corner. She eventually sang her way to stardom, turning the music industry on its ear with her popularity, only to be cut down in the prime of her life by a tragic plane crash.<br /><br />This is, indeed, a book about the life and times of Patsy Cline: her men, her money,  her music. With a touching and personal foreword by Loretta Lynn and sixteen pages of black and white photographs, it is a book that all Patsy Cline fans will enjoy, as will those who enjoy a well-written and well-researched biography.	2004-08-08
562178:US	49355567	RPYYGTBJ08K5N	0553562738	466136665	Doomsday Book	Books	5	179	201	N	N	TERRIFIC TIME TRAVEL TALE...	Winner of both the Hugo and Nebula Awards for science fiction, this book is a tour de force that is sure to captivate all those who love time travel themes, as well as those who have a deep appreciation for medieval history. The author masterfully melds these two genres, creating a novel that is riveting and highly entertaining.<br /><br />The year is 2048 A.D., and a young history student named Kivrin is preparing to do an on site study of the turbulent fourteenth century. Her mission has placed two of the University's professors at cross purposes, as the proponent for this study, Mr. Gilchrist, finds himself pitted against Mr. Dunworthy, Kivrin's mentor, who believes that this trip in time is far too dangerous.  Mr. Gilchrist, however, is in the position to have the final say on the project.<br /><br />Kivrin is scheduled to land in the rural English countryside of the fourteenth century some twenty years before the Black Death savages England. Armed with the knowledge of fourteenth century customs, dress, languages, religious practices,  and history, Kivrin is raring to go back in time.  When she travels back, however, an unforeseen crisis in the present places Kivrin in a potentially deadly situation upon her arrival in the past.<br /><br />The book alternates between what is happening in the present and what is happening in the past, as those in the present work to unravel the mystery of what went wrong. Meanwhile, Kivrin struggles to overcome the anomalous  situations she encounters that run contra to her expectations. Believing herself stranded in the past, Kivrin artfully maneuvers around the precarious situations in which she finds herself, never losing her humanity despite the horror of her situation, given what went wrong.<br /><br />Steeped in well-researched medieval life, it is the story of Kivrin's sojourn in the past that captures the imagination of the reader. This is a stunning book that is totally gripping. The spellbound reader will definitely keep turning the pages of this wonderful book, which is clearly written by a master storyteller. Bravo!ep turning the pages of this wonderful book, which is clearly written by a master storyteller. Bravo!	2004-08-08
562613:US	49355567	R3236YFHCS971	0452284449	667500496	The Virgin Blue: A Novel	Books	5	34	37	N	Y	AN EXQUISITE AND TRIUMPHANT DEBUT NOVEL...	This is a beautifully written debut novel. Exquisite in its imagery and clarity of language, the author tells two parallel tales. One takes place in sixteenth century France, during the Protestant reformation and religious persecution of the Huguenots (Protestants). The other takes place in present day France. There are historical ties that bind these two stories, as well as a haunting familial legacy that reaches out across time to makes itself felt in the present.<br /><br />The sixteenth century tale is based around a young woman, Isabelle du Moulin, who marries a boorish lout named Etienne Tournier, the oldest son of one of the more prominent families in their provincial town in France. She is a young woman upon whom the Virgin Mary made a great impression, when she was but a girl. The Tourniers, however, are believers of the new, harsh, Calvinist faith, and so Isabelle must also fully subscribe to it, if she is to survive in her husbands family and in the town in which she lives. When the St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre occurs, in which Huguenots are slain without mercy throughout all of France, Isabelle is forced to flee to safety with what remains of her husband's family. Unhappy in her marriage, she goes on to have an event occur in her life that is so tragic that her pain and sorrow is made palpable in the present, touching one of her ancestors, Ella Turner.<br /><br />Of course, the parallel tale focuses around Ella Turner, a young, married American woman, who moves to France with her husband Rick, in order to advance his career. Ella agrees to the move, because it will take her to the region in France from which she knows her family originated. Once in France, Emma has some difficulty acclimating to life in the small provincial town to which they have moved, as well as to its denizens. Ella also finds herself having inexplicable nightmares and begins to feel herself somewhat alienated from her husband. To occupy her time, she  begins a quest to discover more about her French ancestry. As Ella's story unfolds, alternating with the parallel story of Isabelle, commonalities between the past and present begin to emerge. These parallel stories then converge in a stunning denouement to resolve a tragedy of the past in the present.<br /><br />I absolutely loved this book, as it covered many of the genres that I enjoy. The author combines historical fiction, suspense, romance, and touch of the supernatural all in one beautifully realized novel. The author writes with the heart of a poet and the soul of a great storyteller, one whose prose is delicately nuanced as she weaves gossamer threads of a tale well told. This is simply a superlative and stunning debut novel that will keep the reader turning its pages until the very last. Bravo!re about her French ancestry. As Ella's story unfolds, alternating with the parallel story of Isabelle, commonalities between the past and present begin to emerge. These parallel stories then converge in a stunning denouement to resolve a tragedy of the past in the present.<br /><br />I absolutely loved this book, as it covered many of the genres that I enjoy. The author combines historical fiction, suspense, romance, and touch of the supernatural all in one beautifully realized novel. The author writes with the heart of a poet and the soul of a great storyteller, one whose prose is delicately nuanced as she weaves gossamer threads of a tale well told. This is simply a superlative and stunning debut novel that will keep the reader turning its pages until the very last. Bravo!	2004-08-08
563225:US	49355567	R2OR7O9O0JYHS5	0786012633	694481013	Buried Memories	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A BLACK WIDOW CAUGHT IN A WEB OF HER OWN MAKING...	This is an arresting account of the Texas black widow, Betty Lou Beets, who became the second woman to be executed in that state since the Civil War. Then Texas Governor George W. Bush declined to intervene after the Texas Pardons and Parole Board denied her a stay of execution. So, after being tried, convicted of capital murder, and sentenced to death by lethal injection in 1985,  this black widow, after a nearly fifteen year reprieve, finally got her just desserts in February 2000, when her sentence was finally executed.<br /><br />The book chronicles the remorseless Ms. Beets' sorry and wasted life as a wife and mother. She wasn't much of either, even though she had five children and a total of five husbands. She tried to kill four of her five husbands and actually succeeded in killing two of them quite cold-bloodedly, burying them in her backyard. To add insult to injury, she involved her poor children in her deadly schemes, turning upon them in the final analysis.<br /><br />This is a well-researched book, which draws heavily from court records and trial transcripts, as well as from the recollections of those who were involved in the investigation of the case, those who knew both the deceased, and those who knew Betty Lou Beets. The author has penned a very good true crime book that also contains sixteen pages of black and white photographs. Told in straightforward, narrative prose, this book is sure to engage all those who enjoy the true crime genre.	2004-08-07
584238:US	49355567	R37NJ72JBC7HOY	2020100843	652760128	Replay	Books	5	31	34	N	N	LIVING LIFE TO THE FULLEST...	This is a World Fantasy Award winning book that should appeal to those who are interested in alternate realities and time travel themes. This is the second time that I have read this book, and I love it as much the second time as I did the first. Time has not diminished the capacity of this book to entertain the reader.<br />The book has a wonderfully intriguing plot. What would happen if one were to have the opportunity to relive one's life after death? That is exactly what happens to Jeff Winston, a forty- three year old man who is trapped in a stale and loveless marriage with a dead-end job as the icing on his personal cake.<br />In 1988, Jeff has a fatal heart attack and wakes up in 1963 as his younger self, an eighteen year old college student. After his initial shock wears off, he realizes that he remembers what the future holds. Using that knowledge, he goes about trying to improve his life the second time around, only to die again at forty-three and have to replay his life, over and over.<br />Along the way, Jeff tries to correct his mistakes in judgment and develops a new perspective on life. He also discovers that he is not alone in terms of the ability to replay one's life and finds a soul mate who shares a similar fate. Jeff ultimately discovers true love, romance, adventure, and a deep appreciation of life itself. This is a wonderful book that will keep the reader turning the pages. Bravo!	2004-07-18
585007:US	49355567	RB396P1YW0XLD	039575514X	584095688	My Antonia	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A TIMELESS CLASSIC...	I first read this book when I was in junior high school. I admit that, at the time, I did not appreciate the strengths of the book and the quality of its writing. I am quite glad that I decided to give it another chance, as I now understand why it is considered to be a classic in literature. It is simply a beautifully written book, covering many of the themes that one stumbles across in life and coalescing them into a work of extraordinary breadth.<br />The book is the story of two young people, Jim Burden and Antonia Shimerda. They meet for the first time when Jim is ten years old and Antonia is fourteen. Recently orphaned, Jim has moved to the Great Prairie to live with his grandparents in Nebraska. Antonia, on the other hand, has been wrenched from her homeland in Bohemia, emigrating with her parents to the United States and finding herself in Nebraska. Jim and Antonia's chance encounter on a train sets the stage for the forging of a friendship and unconditional love that time will not diminish.<br />The book relates the harshness of immigrant life through the eyes of Jim, who narrates the events contained in the book. There is a relentless stoicism about the book, which is written in spare, clear prose. With intense imagery and descriptive exactitude, late nineteenth century Nebraska comes to life. It also relates the paths that each of the characters choose to follow, as well as the vicissitudes of life that mold and shape them in ways that no one would have imagined.<br />The focus of the book, which is also a coming of age tale, seems to be on the female characters and their strengths. Consequently, the book has a faintly feminist undercurrent to it, as all the women in it seem to be survivors, despite the hardships that they encounter. This is, without a doubt, a life affirming book, wrought with great feeling and a decided sense of time and place. Yet, despite its poignancy, the book is surprisingly unsentimental and straightforward. It is a testament to the author's literary talent that this book has emerged as a timeless classic. Bravo!e author's literary talent that this book has emerged as a timeless classic. Bravo!	2004-07-18
595177:US	49355567	R1C4VP11NXHCXL	1565111346	718509913	Pepys' Diary (Classic, HighBridge)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	CALLING ALL HISTORY BUFFS...	This is a remarkably entertaining audio book for those who wish to have a birds-eye view of life in seventeenth century London. Samuel Pepys began keeping an extensive diary in 1660, which he religiously kept for nine years. He finally stopped writing it in 1669 due to his failing eyesight. Samuel Pepys  personally lived through the restoration of the Crown to Charles Stuart after the fall of Cromwell, the Plague, and the Great Fire of London.  So, it  is remarkable to be able to hear Samuel Pepys'  vibrant, eye witness narrative of these historical events.  Read by the great British actor, Kenneth Branagh, whose beautifully nuanced reading of this abridgement is one that the discerning listener will find compelling, the diary of Samuel Pepys is one book that history buffs of the period will surely love.<br /><br />In his diary, Samuel Pepys recorded not only events that had historical significance but also those day to day details of his own life that shed light upon the way that people actually lived and worked in seventeenth century Restoration London. The diary chronicles all those mundane little details about which life is made. His meetings with friends and colleagues, his desire for social and professional advancement, his treatment of his servants, his spats with his wife, and his brief extra-marital affairs and bawdy romps, all this and more is contained in his diary. In detailing his affairs of the heart, he often used a code which appears to be a combination of English, Spanish, Latin, and possibly French. It was understandable to me, as it would be to anyone with some knowledge of these languages, and, consequently, understandable as to why he would write it in code. He obviously would not want his wife to know  what he was up to!<br /><br />His is a unique voice that should be heard by all those who would wish to know more about seventeenth century life in Restoration London. Suffused with period detail and written in the linguistic style of the day, this book is a must for all those history buffs who are interested in Restoration England.  Bravo!is book is a must for all those history buffs who are interested in Restoration England.  Bravo!	2004-07-10
596110:US	49355567	R3M6Q3ZU496Z8G	8408041819	791974504	Olympia (Spanish)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	EVOCATIVE AND PROVOCATIVE...	This is the Spanish text edition of a well-crafted and lyrically written narrative, evocative of an era gone by. It tells the story of Olympia Biddeford, the unusually erudite and well-educated fifteen year old daughter of a Boston Brahmin. One hot and steamy summer in turn of the century New Hampshire, she falls passionately and utterly in love with her father's friend, forty one year old John Haskell, a physician and man of letters, who has a wife and four children. She, captivated by his intelligence and his crusade on behalf of exploited mill workers, and he, drawn to her youth, intelligence and beauty, leave behind all thought of propriety. Breaking every moral and social taboo of the time, they enter into a forbidden, illicit love affair, which is ultimately doomed, with cataclysmic ramifications for all whom the affair touches.<br /><br />The book explores how this young woman copes with the loss of her life in a larger social milieu, once the affair enters into the public domain, through the machinations of another. She and the doctor, as well as their respective families, are tainted with scandal and presented with the fruit of that illicit love. The book explores how Olympia must reconstruct the tatters of her life into one in which she is finally able to expiate her youthful indiscretion within the context of the mores of the time. In doing so, she goes on a voyage of self-discovery. Yet, through it all, she never once renounces her devotion to the man who introduced her to the throes of a passion so deep and profound that she gave herself over to it, body and soul. How these star-crossed lovers finally come to terms with their grand passion is a story that the author seamlessly weaves into a book that will hold the reader in its thrall.	2004-07-10
602626:US	49355567	R3HGFOA8J4FTYX	0743227441	512398584	The Other Boleyn Girl	Books	5	0	3	N	Y	GONE BUT NOT FORGOTTEN...	This well-known author of historical fiction has outdone herself with this  rich and absorbing tale of the notorious Boleyn sisters, Anne and Mary. The Tudor court, with all its pomp and intrigue, is seen through the eyes of the beautiful Mary Boleyn, who at the age of fourteen arrives at court and becomes lady-in-waiting to Katherine of Aragon, Queen of England and wife to King Henry VIII.  Although already married to courtier William Carey, Mary captures the heart of King Henry VIII, whose roving eyes land on this innocent young miss.<br />In the eyes of  the grasping and greedy Boleyn family, Mary is but the fatted calf through whom their ambitions, they believe, will become realized. So, they offer her up as a sacrifice to their ruthless ambition. Forced to separate from her husband in order to become the King's mistress, Mary betrays the Queen and becomes mistress to the King, all at the behest of her family. Every step of her affair is choreographed from the wings by her family, with the adept aid of her sly and clever sister, Anne, in the role of chief manipulator.<br />Mary struggles with her own code of honor and personal morality, which is often in conflict with what is mandated by her family. Still, despite her best intentions, Mary disappoints them, as her nature is not the kind that takes well to intrigue and manipulation, as she has sincere feelings of affection for the King, as well as for the Queen. After bearing the King two children, however, she is set aside by a formidable rival, her own sister, Anne, in whom  the Boleyn family now place their hopes and ambitions.<br />This is, first and foremost, the story of Mary Boleyn, a woman who has generally been reduced to a footnote in history. It is notable, however, that she was the only Boleyn sibling to survive the purges of the Tudor court and who, ultimately, married for love in an age when this was not the norm among those of her class.  It is also the story of Anne Boleyn, her rise and fall, as seen through the eyes of her sister, Mary, with whom Anne was to have a lifelong rivalry.<br />To a  lesser degree, it is also the story of their brother, George, a more remote, though no less interesting, personage. His interjection into the story is necessary, as the author attempts to address the issue of incest that arose at the trial of George and Anne Boleyn. She gives quite an interesting perspective on the issue, weaving it, part and parcel, into the story in an effort to explain his downfall, as well his betrayal by his own wife.<br />Told against the magnificent backdrop of the Tudor Court in all its splendor and majesty, the author weaves a complex tale of greed, ambition, sex, and political machination, as well as unparalleled intrigue, in sixteenth century England. Filled with well-fleshed characters taken right out of the annals of history, the story is one that is sure to delight all those with a love for well-written historical fiction. In particular, fans of beloved author, Jean Plaidy, will enjoy this book.een through the eyes of her sister, Mary, with whom Anne was to have a lifelong rivalry.<br />To a  lesser degree, it is also the story of their brother, George, a more remote, though no less interesting, personage. His interjection into the story is necessary, as the author attempts to address the issue of incest that arose at the trial of George and Anne Boleyn. She gives quite an interesting perspective on the issue, weaving it, part and parcel, into the story in an effort to explain his downfall, as well his betrayal by his own wife.<br />Told against the magnificent backdrop of the Tudor Court in all its splendor and majesty, the author weaves a complex tale of greed, ambition, sex, and political machination, as well as unparalleled intrigue, in sixteenth century England. Filled with well-fleshed characters taken right out of the annals of history, the story is one that is sure to delight all those with a love for well-written historical fiction. In particular, fans of beloved author, Jean Plaidy, will enjoy this book.	2004-07-05
602944:US	49355567	R1OTUS80FC2APW	0345349512	522281100	To Fear a Painted Devil	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A BREEZY LITTLE WHODUNIT...	This mystery by Ruth Rendell is one of her earlier efforts. It offers none of the well-drawn psychological portraits for which she would later become known. Instead, she offers the reader a somewhat  traditional whodunit sort of mystery with a tightly woven plot that has a few twists and turns. It makes for a quick, easy read.<br />The plot is simple and direct. It centers around an unhappily married, wealthy couple, the dictatorial Patrick and the put upon Tamsin, who live in a well to do community. When they have an ill-advised celebration in their home to celebrate Tamsin's birthday, Patrick becomes ill after an accident involving some wasps. Lucky for him, there was a doctor in the house. So, Patrick takes to his bed, none the worse for wear, only to never wake up again. His death is later deemed to be of natural causes.<br />It turns out, however,  that many people had reason to dislike Patrick and wish that he were out of the way: his own wife, her lover, the twin  brother of his mistress, and a local business man that he was in the process of ruining. When gossip begins to churn in their close knit community, rumor has it that Patrick's death was anything but natural.  Who could have done it?<br />That is for the reader to discover. If one is a fan of mysteries and of Ruth Rendell, one will, undoubtedly, enjoy this breezy little mystery and delight in trying to figure out who might be the killer.	2004-07-05
602978:US	49355567	R3QRQ1CX5KFDXH	0679781307	153296191	The Reader	Books	5	337	350	N	N	COMPELLING...COMPLEX...PROFOUND...	Winner of the Boston Review's Fisk Fiction Prize, this thematically complex story is written in clear, simple, lucid prose. It is a straightforward telling of an encounter that was to mark fifteen year old Michael Berg for life. The book, written as if it were a memoir, is divided into three parts.  The first part of the book deals with that encounter.<br /><br />While on his way home from school one day in post-war Germany, Michael becomes ill. He is aided by a beautiful and buxom, thirty six year old blonde named  Hanna Schmitz. When he recovers from his illness, he goes to Frau Schmitz's home to thank her and eventually finds himself seduced by her and engaged in a sexual encounter. They become lovers for a period of time, and a component of their relationship was that Michael would read aloud to her. Michael romanticizes their affair, which is a cornerstone of his young life. Then, one day, as suddenly as she appeared in his life, she disappears, having inexplicably moved with no forwarding address.<br /><br />The second part of the book deals with Michael's chance encounter with Hanna again. He is now a law student in a seminar that is focused on Germany's Nazi past and the related war trials.  The students are young and eager to condemn all who, after the end of the war,  had  tolerated the Nazis in their midst. Even Michael's parents do not escape his personal condemnation. The seminar is to be an exploration of the collective guilt of the German people, and Michael embraces the opportunity,  as do others of his generation, to philosophically condemn the older generation for having sat silently by. Then, he is assigned to take notes on a trial of some camp guards.<br /><br />To his total amazement, one of the accused is Hanna, his Hanna.  He stoically remains throughout the trial, realizing as he hears the evidence that she is refusing to divulge the one piece of evidence that could possibly absolve her or, at least, mitigate her complicity in the crimes with which she is charged.  It is as if she considers her secret  more shameful than that of which she is accused. Yet, Michael, too, remains mute on the fact that would throw her legal, if not her moral, guilt into question.  Consequently, Hanna finds herself bearing the legal guilt of all those involved in the crime of which she is accused and is condemned accordingly.<br /><br />The third part of the book is really the way Michael deals with having found Hanna, again. He removes himself from further demonstration and discussion on the issue of Germany's Nazi past. It affects his decisions as to his career in the law,  eventually choosing a legal career that is isolating. He marries and has a child but finds that he cannot be free of Hanna. He cannot be free of the pain of having loved Hanna. It is as if Hanna has marked him for life. He divorces and never remarries. It is as if he cannot love another, as he loved Hanna. Michael then reaches out to Hanna in prison,  indirectly, through the secret they share of what she seems to be most ashamed. Yet, he carefully never personalizes the contact. The end, when it comes, is almost anti-climatic.<br /><br />The relationship between Michael and Hanna really seems to be analogous to the relationship between the generations of Germans in post-war Germany. The affair between Michael and Hanna is representational of the affair that Germany had with the Nazi movement. The eroticism of the book is a necessary component for the  collective guilt and shame that the Germans bear for the Holocaust, as well as for the moral divide that seemingly exists between the generations. Yet, the book  also shows that such is not always a black and white issue, that there are sometimes gray areas when one discusses one's actions in the context of the forces of good and evil. There is also the issue of legal and moral responsibility. One would think that the two are synonymous, but they are not always so.  It also philosophizes on the ability tolove another/a nation  who/that  was complicit in war crimes. This is an insightful, allegorical  book that defies categorizing. It is also a book that is a wonderful selection for a reading circle, as it has a wealth of issues that are ripe for discussion. This is simply a superlative book. Bravo!love another/a nation  who/that  was complicit in war crimes. This is an insightful, allegorical  book that defies categorizing. It is also a book that is a wonderful selection for a reading circle, as it has a wealth of issues that are ripe for discussion. This is simply a superlative book. Bravo!	2004-07-05
603629:US	49355567	R2JSMRNTWKT1CG	5553662451	761691187	Going Wrong	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A TWISTED TALE OF OBSESSIVE LOVE...	British author, Ruth Rendell, is, undoubtedly, the doyenne of  psychological suspense, painting subtle portraits of offbeat, quirky characters that are just a tad off the beaten path. Delving into their psyches, she draws the reader into the slightly skewed world  that they inhabit. Their world then becomes that of the reader, as the author weaves a tapestry of a world that is just a bit awry, deftly letting the reader know that something is wrong, so very wrong.<br />The author does no less in this well-written novel, as she leads the reader into the mind and world of Guy Curran, a handsome, young man from the slums who has led a hard scrabble life, elevating himself from the bowels of poverty by dint of his own hard work and acquiring great wealth in the process . Unfortunately for him, that hard work included some less than reputable dealings in the drug trade, which provided the capital for his now legitimate businesses.<br />For years, Guy has been obsessively in love with Leonora Chisholm, an upper class miss who, after years of being his reluctant childhood sweetheart, has rejected him and all the trappings of wealth and comfort he has to offer her. She prefers to live in genteel poverty with her friends, while acquiring a new boyfriend whom her family and friends like.  Guy is convinced some of his past, shady dealings have come to the attention of someone in Leonora's family or inner circle. He believes that that individual has persuaded Leonora to turn away from him.<br />Now, who would go and do such a thing? Read this well-written book and join Guy in the process of eliminating the likely suspect in this twisted tale of obsessive love.	2004-07-04
611325:US	49355567	R3L1URA1H4CPMY	1586480774	773058229	Elephant Destiny: Biography Of An Endangered Species In Africa	Books	5	5	6	N	N	PACHYDERMS ARE PRECIOUS...	This is a wonderful, well written, illustrated book about elephants and their role throughout history, as well as their present state in the world. I confess, I did not know much about elephants before reading this book. I now feel I know something about them, and what I have discovered is fascinating. I did not realize how complex and intelligent these magnificent creatures are, nor how dangerously close to extinction they have become. It would, indeed, be tragic were that to happen, for elephants are sociable, sentient, and intelligent.<br />The author takes the reader on a tour throughout  history, describing the elephant's interaction with humanity and its role in the affairs of mankind and its impact on the environment.  The book traces the influence of the elephant and the various uses to which mankind has put this great creature. From being used as a conveyance in times of war, to being paraded as an object of wonder and curiosity, to being hunted down mercilessly for its ivory tusks, the elephant has had a somewhat checkered history in terms of its interaction with human beings.<br />The author also carefully relates the elephant's own social structure, which is a sophisticated and complex one. Their mating rituals, their family life, and their handling of death are all addressed by the author, who paints a picture of a multi-faceted and remarkable society of elephants.  It is only in the twentieth century that its complexity has begun to be understood by man. It is hoped that this is not a case of too little, too late.<br />Unfortunately for the elephant, however, its positive qualities have taken a backseat to its value as a commodity. Elephant tusks may eventually bring about the demise of the entire species, if the world does not take heed. A portion of this book is devoted to the ivory wars that have decimated the great elephant herds of Africa, turning elephants into an endangered species.  Were elephants to be driven to extinction by pure, unadulterated greed, it truly would be tragic. This book effectively drives that point home.ed greed, it truly would be tragic. This book effectively drives that point home.	2004-06-28
620640:US	49355567	R2H82FAXMHPHCM	0375404228	293414965	Twilight: Losing Sight, Gaining Insight	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	CALLING ALL MACULAR DEGENERATES...	Written by a retired Editor-in-Chief of Time, Inc. publications, this slender tome gives the author's musings on macular degeneration, which is an incurable, age-related, gradual loss of vision that affects millions of  Americans. It is a loss that the author himself experienced, though initially, having worn eyeglasses all his life,  he simply thought that he needed a prescription for stronger lenses.<br />The author gives the reader a historical perspective of age related macular degeneration and the state of this disease in the medical world today. He also recounts his early struggle with the permanent loss of vision and his  somewhat difficult transition to the world of the blind and partially blind, given the fact that his life had always revolved around the written word and voracious reading.<br />This is a very personal chronicle of one man's journey, both physical and emotional, to a new phase in his long and rich life. It is clearly a journey that the author would have preferred not to have taken, but having taken it, though against his will, he makes the most of it. A gifted writer, the author shares his experiences with great candor and insight.<br />This is an informative, inspirational work from the heart. Those who read it will gain knowledge of the insidious disease that is macular degeneration. It is certainly  a disease with which all those who may potentially become  afflicted should be familiar. Baby Boomers, in particular, should take heed.	2004-06-21
628528:US	49355567	R334328L3X16BR	0156507005	126803406	Letters from Jenny	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A LITERARY SELF-PORTRAIT OF A TROUBLED WOMAN...	This is book that attempts to analyze the personality of a woman, Jenny Gove Masterson, from a series of letters written by her. These letters, often passionate, often vitriolic, delineate a very dysfunctional mother/son relationship. They are written in a manner reflective of the era in which she lived and are a birds-eye view into another time. The reader is able to see her life unfold, much like a Greek tragedy,  through her intimate, well-written, highly descriptive  letters. Her letters are a fascinating window into the mind of another person. They paint a compelling, literary self-portrait of a complex and troubled woman.<br /><br />Jenny Gove Masterson was born in Ireland in 1868 but moved to Canada with her family when she was a very young girl. Always interested in scholarly pursuits,  she was forced to leave school at eighteen, when her father died, in order to work to help support her brothers and sisters.  Finally, when she was twenty-seven, her brothers and sisters on their own, she married Henry Masterson, a divorced American. To marry a divorced man was unheard of in her family and considered to be a disgrace. Her marriage caused Jenny to become estranged from her strict, Protestant family, and she moved to America. About two years into the marriage,  her husband died, just a month before their son, Ross, was born.<br />She would then embark on a life of total self-sacrifice and devotion to her son. Nothing was too good for her Ross, and she ensured that his was an interesting and culturally rich childhood, with education held at a premium. She spared no expense, working at any jobs that would afford her son all the opportunities she sought for him. She lived a life of self-imposed martyrdom where her son was concerned. Possessive and very single-minded, she spun a cloying cocoon of maternal obsession around her son, who appeared to have been her only companion during his formative years.<br />When he reached manhood, however, Ross began drifting apart from his mother's apron strings. He would form relationships with the opposite sex, only to have his mother belittle the object of his affection. This caused him to keep his marriage a secret, when he first married. When his mother discovered it, she was enraged beyond measure.  Even when Ross and his wife eventually divorced, this was to be the pattern whenever Ross embarked on a relationship with a member of the opposite sex. No woman was ever good enough for her son. This state of affairs would cause an estrangement between mother and son that was to torture Jenny Gove Masterson all her life.<br />Despite her estrangement from her son, Jenny Gove Masterson would form a relationship of sorts with her son's former college roommate and his wife, and, between the ages of fifty-eight and seventy, she would write them a series of letters, totaling three hundred and one at the time of her death. In addition to the letters, the book includes a very personal, thoughtful commentary on the life of Jenny Gove  Masterson and her letters by one of the recipients of her missives.<br /><br />The editor of the book, Gordon W. Allport, a Professor of Psychology at Harvard at the time that this book was first released, attempts an interpretation of Jenny Gove Masterson herself, based upon the content of her letters. He does so by applying the various accepted theories of psychology and schools of thought to her letters and what is known of her background in order to try to decipher and explain Jenny Gove Masterson's somewhat forceful, difficult, and enigmatic personality.  This novel approach to analysis is an intriguing one and sure to pique the interest of  those with an affinity for psychology, as it provides much food for thought with respect to its unusual case study.<br />This is a compelling book that will keep the reader turning its pages until the very last.t from his mother's apron strings. He would form relationships with the opposite sex, only to have his mother belittle the object of his affection. This caused him to keep his marriage a secret, when he first married. When his mother discovered it, she was enraged beyond measure.  Even when Ross and his wife eventually divorced, this was to be the pattern whenever Ross embarked on a relationship with a member of the opposite sex. No woman was ever good enough for her son. This state of affairs would cause an estrangement between mother and son that was to torture Jenny Gove Masterson all her life.<br />Despite her estrangement from her son, Jenny Gove Masterson would form a relationship of sorts with her son's former college roommate and his wife, and, between the ages of fifty-eight and seventy, she would write them a series of letters, totaling three hundred and one at the time of her death. In addition to the letters, the book includes a very personal, thoughtful commentary on the life of Jenny Gove  Masterson and her letters by one of the recipients of her missives.<br /><br />The editor of the book, Gordon W. Allport, a Professor of Psychology at Harvard at the time that this book was first released, attempts an interpretation of Jenny Gove Masterson herself, based upon the content of her letters. He does so by applying the various accepted theories of psychology and schools of thought to her letters and what is known of her background in order to try to decipher and explain Jenny Gove Masterson's somewhat forceful, difficult, and enigmatic personality.  This novel approach to analysis is an intriguing one and sure to pique the interest of  those with an affinity for psychology, as it provides much food for thought with respect to its unusual case study.<br />This is a compelling book that will keep the reader turning its pages until the very last.	2004-06-15
631842:US	49355567	R206DPP4Y7O6AC	0440171024	131653250	President's Plane Is Missing	Books	4	9	10	N	N	GOOD COLD WAR YARN...	I read this book when it first came out over twenty years ago and very much enjoyed it. A best seller in its time, I recently came across it on my bookshelf and, remembering how much I had enjoyed it, decided to give it another go-around. Time has not diminished the author's ability to grip the reader with this political thriller, though some of it now seems a little anachronistic. Women are regarded differently now and the cold war has long been an issue of the past.  Of course, the world has changed much since this book was first released.<br />The book basically opens on a world that teeters on the edge of global disaster, as an uneasy cold war peace is threatened by the specter of a nuclear war. A harried president, worn and weary by the fray, suddenly announces that he wishes to take some time off and schedules a trip on Air Force One to an undisclosed location. The plane takes off as scheduled but never reaches its destination.  When the plane is discovered, the mystery only deepens, leaving a weak vice-president to struggle with the pieces of an ever deepening mystery, as well as with a world seemingly on the brink of war.<br />This is a tightly woven tale that those who like a good political thriller will enjoy.	2004-06-12
636808:US	49355567	R3HY00W83VRTL9	0613706986	95144783	Cradle & All (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition) (Alex Cross Novels (Pb))	Books	1	0	1	N	N	FAR FROM THE AUTHOR'S BEST...	Written in 1980 and originally released under another title, this book has resurfaced and been updated by the author to make it appear as if it were a more contemporary work.  It has been released under a new title to capitalize upon the author's success with his Alex Cross series of thrillers. Unfortunately, it is not cut from the same bolt of cloth and lacks the quality of both writing and plot that earmarks his Alex Cross novels. The book is riddled with ridiculous cliches from the horror genre and lacks any real tension.<br />The story line itself is fairly simple. There are two young girls, both pregnant and both claiming to be virgins. One, Kathleen, rich and privileged, lives in the United States. The other, Colleen, lives in a small country village in Ireland. According to a secret missive from Our Lady of Fatima, one virgin will give birth to Satan's child, the Anti-Christ, while the other will give birth to the child of God, a new Messiah.<br />Meanwhile, all over the world apocalyptic manifestations are sprouting up. Pestilence, drought, famine, and and other evil portents seem to dominate the global landscape. Something strange is going on, and it appears as if the forces of good and evil are gathering about, girding themselves for one final battle.<br />Father Rosetti, an emissary from the Vatican, has been entrusted with a secret mission by the Pope relative to these two young virgins, and it is one that will sorely try his faith. Meanwhile, former nun turned private investigator, Anne Fitzgerald, has been retained by the Archdiocese of Boston to look into the phenomena of a possible immaculate conception with regards to these two young women who inhabit disparate worlds. Anne must not only confront the unknown in order to assist these two young women, she must also confront her own powerful emotions and a destiny she could not have imagined.	2004-06-08
637460:US	49355567	R3NN079OFXIUHX	0743246071	237333289	The Queen's Fool	Books	4	244	264	N	Y	THERE IS NO FOOL LIKE THE QUEEN'S FOOL...	This best selling English author of historical fiction has written yet another interesting work. This novel takes place during the reign of Mary Tudor, daughter of King Henry VIII and Katherine of Aragon. She would leave a legacy that would cause her to be known as &quot;Bloody Mary&quot; for her burning of heretics.<br />The narrator is a girl named Hannah Green, a young teenager who has fled Spain  and its Inquisition with her father, following the death of her mother. She had been burned alive at the stake as a heretic, when it was discovered that she was a &quot;Marrano&quot;, a false Christian, that is, a  Jew who has converted to Christianity but who follows the Jewish faith in secret.<br />Landing in London, where her father opens a book store, Hannah makes the acquaintance of a handsome rake, Sir Robert Dudley, who discovers that Hannah has the gift of sight. She develops a personal relationship with him that eventually sees her enter into Queen Mary's service as her fool. Hannah serves Queen Mary, but at the same time, is sent by the Queen to serve her half-sister the Princess Elizabeth and spy upon her.<br />Meanwhile, Sir Robert Dudley also uses Hannah in his treasonous plot to see the Princess Elizabeth on the throne of England. So, Hannah finds herself walking a dangerous tightrope and is fearful of discovery of her role in the political intrigues that are welling around her, as well as discovery of her own background, which would be grounds for death. Her worst fears are nearly realized when the Queen marries Prince Phillip of Spain.<br />In the midst of all this political intriguing that appears to be going on all around her, Hannah has her own immediate future to think about, as she becomes betrothed to another Marrano such as herself. Infatuated with Lord Dudley, loyal to both Queen Mary and the clever and manipulative Princess Elizabeth, Hannah finds herself putting her own future happiness at risk amidst the political and religious  turmoil of the time.<br />This is a fast paced, breezy read about an independent, young woman who finds herself at a crossroad in her life and begins a voyage of self-discovery that will ultimately change her life. The story takes place in sixteenth century England, amidst all the political strife and religious upheaval of the time. The author weaves an intriguing tapestry of historical events and personages together with the intrigues that were rife in the Tudor court of the Queen who would become known as Bloody Mary.time.<br />This is a fast paced, breezy read about an independent, young woman who finds herself at a crossroad in her life and begins a voyage of self-discovery that will ultimately change her life. The story takes place in sixteenth century England, amidst all the political strife and religious upheaval of the time. The author weaves an intriguing tapestry of historical events and personages together with the intrigues that were rife in the Tudor court of the Queen who would become known as Bloody Mary.	2004-06-08
640986:US	49355567	R3NPFCCNK612S8	0060738197	868613530	The Stepford Wives	Books	5	24	27	N	N	THE WIFE MANY MEN SECRETLY DESIRE...	This is a thought provoking, tautly written novella. A gem of suspense, it was first published in the early nineteen seventies and went on to become a popular movie of the same name, starring Katherine Ross. There is now a remake of the film version, starring Nicole Kidman in the lead role with Bette Midler in a supporting role and Christopher Walken as head of the sinister Men's Association described in the book. So, interest is now renewed in this very readable book, which, despite its simplicity and brevity, is a thinly disguised social commentary on the reaction of men to the early women's liberation movement.<br />The story is very simple but gripping and well written in clear, straightforward prose. Joanna Eberhart moves to the seemingly bucolic town of Stepford with her husband, Walter, and two children, leaving behind the dangers of big city living. An independent, assertive, intelligent, and creative woman, Joanna epitomizes the newly liberated women of the nineteen seventies. Looking for like souls with whom to become friends, she seeks out some of the other married women of the town, only to find that they are all uniformly addicted to housework, give their husbands complete obeisance, are made up to the gills, and have figures courtesy of maidenform.<br />Joanna manages to find several like-minded women such as her. Yet, when they, too, become addicted to housework after having a romantic weekend alone with their respective husbands, Joanna becomes convinced that the town's Men's Association has hatched a nefarious plot to change all the wives of Stepford into submissive Barbie dolls. Will Joanna manage to escape the fate of the rest of the Stepford wives? Read the book and find out. You will not be disappointed.	2004-06-05
641119:US	49355567	R2VQVOP8F9EGOX	0453007147	342115375	My Guide Myself	Books	4	15	17	N	N	INTRIGUING...PROVOCATIVE...ENTERTAINING...	Having seen Sylvia Browne on the Montel Williams show, I was certainly captivated by her psychic ability, as she seemed to be so on the money with her revelations about some of Montel's guests. I purchased this book in hope of finding out more about this intriguing woman, who certainly seemed to be blessed with a remarkable psychic gift.<br />This book, which was later retitled and released as &quot;Adventures of a Psychic: The Fascinating, Inspiring, True Life Story of One of America's Most Successful Clairvoyants&quot;, is informative and highly entertaining, as Sylvia Browne relates her life story, and the reader discovers how she evolved to be the person she is today. She tells the reader of her dysfunctional family and suggests that her gift is a hereditary one. She describes her psychic gift in detail and informs the reader of the use to which she has put her ability. Her journey in life has, thus far, been a fascinating and unusual one.<br />She also gives the reader her vision of what lies ahead for each and every one of us, after we have moved on from this earthly plane. While one cannot be sure whether she is right or wrong, it still makes for some thought provoking and interesting reading. She believes death to be one's reward for living. This is certainly philosophically in keeping with her vision of what lies ahead for each of us, after death.<br />The book, written in a warm, breezy, conversational tone, is very reflective of Sylvia's actual cadence and personality. Whether or not one is a believer is irrelevant to the enjoyment that one will derive from reading this book. Keep an open mind!	2004-06-05
641405:US	49355567	RNCFLU8S2E6PD	1576871029	520255230	Enduring Justice: Photographs by Thomas Roma	Books	2	6	11	N	N	AN EMPTY SHELL...	It is hard to believe that it took Thomas Roma fourteen months, roaming the grimy corridors of the Brooklyn Criminal Court Building,  to take the eighty black and white photographs that appear in this book. There is nothing special about them. On any given day, one can see faces  like these in the Brooklyn Criminal Court Building, which is located at 120 Schermerhorn Street in Brooklyn, NY. Perhaps, this is what the photographer intended.  I am only surprised that it took him fourteen months to capture what should have been all in a day's work. As a practitioner in Brooklyn, I am disappointed that the portraits are, for the most part, so very ordinary, but, perhaps, that is his intended silent commentary.<br />The foreword by  Norman Mailer is ridiculous, as he talks about the ubiquitous attorney who &quot;...charges more than you can afford while all the while he emanates his profound dissatisfaction with what he is being paid.&quot; In Brooklyn Criminal Court, the majority of defendants are assisted by public defenders or court appointed attorneys who do not charge the defendants for their services. It is taxpayers who are footing the bill. Moreover, Mailer also assumes in his foreword that  lawyers and judges are men. He would be shocked to discover that many are women. He also further assumes that defendants are all men. Although, the majority are men, women are also increasingly appearing as defendants. I do not know whether his perceptions are born from an inbred misogyny or from simply not having done his homework before writing this foreword. The introduction by Robert Coles is much better written, as it is more substantive and seemingly better informed, though he, too, assumes, as does Mailer, that all the photographs in the book are those of defendants in a criminal case, as well as those of their families.<br />As to the photographs themselves, the problem is that it is not clear whether they are photographs of just defendants and their families, or whether the photographs include police officers, victims, and witnesses, as well. From the book cover flap one would think that it was inclusive, but the text from the foreword and introduction would lead the reader to think otherwise.  There is no text accompanying the photographs that clarifies this issue. The photographs themselves are divided into two parts. Other than part one presents predominately male portraits and part two presents predominantly female portraits, I do not really understand the bifurcation or why it was necessary, as it does not add to the cohesion of the book. The problems inherent in this book may be chalked up to poor editing but, considering the price of the book, that is really no excuse. The end result is that the book is merely another overpriced art book that is nothing more than an empty shell.er the photographs include police officers, victims, and witnesses, as well. From the book cover flap one would think that it was inclusive, but the text from the foreword and introduction would lead the reader to think otherwise.  There is no text accompanying the photographs that clarifies this issue. The photographs themselves are divided into two parts. Other than part one presents predominately male portraits and part two presents predominantly female portraits, I do not really understand the bifurcation or why it was necessary, as it does not add to the cohesion of the book. The problems inherent in this book may be chalked up to poor editing but, considering the price of the book, that is really no excuse. The end result is that the book is merely another overpriced art book that is nothing more than an empty shell.	2004-06-05
641884:US	49355567	R392T8UGD5UKS9	2226076220	196768704	Un plan simple	Books	5	0	0	N	N	EVIL  HAS MANY FACES...	This is, without a doubt, an amazing debut novel. It is a modern day morality tale, which sees people's lives change significantly, when they come upon a veritable treasure trove of money. The change is not necessarily for the better, as the reader of this French language edition will discover.<br /><br />The plot revolves around two, small town brothers, Hank and Jacob Mitchell, who, along with Jacob's friend, Lou, inadvertently come upon a downed plane that is buried in the snow, deep in the woods of a rural area. In that plane is a dead pilot, along with four million dollars in cold, hard cash. All three of them could sure use the money. The question is, what are they going to do about it?<br /><br />They come up with what they think is a simple plan. They will take the money and just wait and see, not spending it, until the coast seems clear. From the moment they make this decision, life is never the same for any of them. Hank, taking charge of the money for safekeeping, begins to undergo a change that is seemingly uncharacteristic of one who is outwardly so respectable, rational, and benign of countenance.<br /><br />As the issue of the money begins to divide the three accomplices, greed and betrayal bubble to the surface, to culminate in a series of chilling, cold blooded murders. Meanwhile, Hank, manipulated by his Ma Barker of a wife, Sarah, begins a personal downward spiral, succumbing to an evil so profound, that it will leave the reader open mouthed.<br /><br />What happens to them all makes for an amazingly powerful and riveting story of psychological suspense. Written in clean, spare prose, this well-crafted novel is an absorbing page-turner that grips the reader from the inception, holding the reader in its thrall until its climactic conclusion. The ending serves to show the reader that what goes around, does, indeed, come around.	2004-06-05
647714:US	49355567	R1ANA7SNH41J6J	B00005VRQK	414765220	Eleanor the Queen: The Story of the Most Famous Woman of the Middle Ages	Books	4	4	4	N	N	THE MOST FAMOUS WOMAN OF THE MIDDLE AGES...	This is an interesting work of historical fiction by a noted writer of historical fiction and gifted storyteller, Norah Lofts. the author capably details the life of Eleanor of Aquitaine, one of the most famous and celebrated women of the middle ages. Touted by the troubadours of her time as being a woman without compare, Eleanor of Aquitaine could certainly be held to be the first feminist.<br />Married first to the pious King of France, Louis VII,  she bore him two daughters and went with him on an unsuccessful Crusade, where she was to have a number of adventures. Stifled by the King's somewhat misogynistic advisors, she and the King would come to a parting of the way after fifteen years of marriage. No sooner was she divorced and returned to her Duchy of Aquitaine, than she met eighteen year old Henry Plantagenet, who was to become King Henry II of England. Nearly a dozen years separated them but this was to be no bar to their marriage.<br />Eleanor and Henry were to marry, and she bore him numerous sons and daughters. She lived happily with Henry for many years, until she discovered that he had a mistress, the fair Rosamonde of legend. The break in their relationship would eventually result in the estrangement of Henry from his sons and the imprisonment of Eleanor for nearly eighteen years.<br />This is an excellent work of historical fiction, filled with the political intrigues of the day, historical events and personages, and a story that has withstood the test of time. It is a book that those who like well-written historical fiction will, undoubtedly, enjoy.	2004-05-31
647865:US	49355567	R1W66Q5S39YSTE	0380716011	789352657	Charmer: The True Story of a Ladies' Man and His Victims	Books	4	13	13	N	Y	JUST THE FACTS...	The late great Jack Olsen is one of the greatest true crime writers around, along with Ann Rule. With this book, the author explores the life of George Russell, Jr., a young, highly intelligent  African-American who lived with his mother, step-father, and half-sister in the affluent Seattle suburb of Mercer Island. There was little to indicate at the time that he would grow up to become a notorious serial killer, murdering three young women before being stopped.<br />The author gives a fact based account of what happened, relying heavily upon interviews of those who knew George Russell, Jr. It would appear that George was an ingratiating, silver tongued devil, with a propensity for lying. Still, this charismatic Svengali had a following among the very young teens with whom he would associate. He also had a peculiar approach towards  women, based probably on the distorted and distant relationship with his own mother, a cold and austere woman who abandoned George to his step-father, when she divorced him.<br />The story of George Russell, Jr. and his infamous crimes is well laid out by the author in a no nonsense style. Those looking for tabloid sensationalism should look elsewhere. It is the facts, ma'm, strictly the facts, with little attempt at analysis. The book lacks crime scene photographs or even a photograph of the killer around whom this story unfolds. The book is simply a  straightforward, take it or leave it presentation of this killer's story without input from the killer. Consequently, the book suffers somewhat from these omissions. Still, it is a well told tale that is sure to interest those with a penchant for the true crime genre.	2004-05-31
648397:US	49355567	R3K37H68DHD1X	0696217120	419193157	Trading Spaces Behind the Scenes: Including Decorating Tips and Tricks	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	FOR RABID &quot;TRADING SPACES&quot; FANS ONLY...	This is really a large sized, coffee table styled, soft cover book that focuses on the stars that make &quot;Trading Spaces&quot; the cable show hit that it is. It is a pictorial odyssey with text that reads as if a fawning fan were writing it and striving for the lowest common denominator. Still, a rabid fan of the show, to which I admit being, will enjoy finding out more about those who make &quot;Trading Spaces&quot; a show worth watching.<br />The book gives an overview the show and some behind-the-scene details about what goes into making an episode. It also gives a relatively brief biography of each member of the show's cast, as well as lavish, loving color photographs of them. It tells the reader how each cast member came about landing a spot  on &quot;Trading Spaces&quot;. There are also before and after photographs of some of the rooms on which they have worked. The book ends with a complete episode guide for seasons one, two, and three, replete with room by room discussions for each episode.<br />If one is not a rabid fan of &quot;Trading Spaces&quot;, one should deduct at least one star from my rating and not buy this book. It is a book only rabid fans of the show would appreciate.	2004-05-31
648487:US	49355567	R2S22K7MY5GUHG	9997502663	635389380	My Left Foot	Books	5	19	20	N	Y	A TESTAMENT TO THE RESILIENCY OF THE HUMAN SPIRIT...	This is the story of a young man who was born in Ireland in 1932, after a difficult birth and with a  severe disability that the doctors of the time were unable to name. They urged his parents to disavow him, as he was, they believed, an imbecile with a severely spastic body. Moreover, his parents then had five other  children, all healthy. Christy's mother, however,  refused to institutionalize him, keeping him at home and treating him as she would her other children. It would not be until years later that she would learn that Christy's affliction was severe cerebral palsy.<br />Imprisoned in a world all his own and seeming without means to communicate, Christy, at the age of five, made an attempt that was to change his life forever. Rather than being imbecilic, Christy was actually highly intelligent. He took a piece of chalk with his left foot and, having captured the attention of his family, proceeded to scrawl on the floor a reasonable facsimile of the letter &quot;A&quot;, astounding his loving family in the process.<br />By breaking  the communications barrier, Christy demonstrated that he could learn and understand. From then on, his capacity for learning was prodigious. Who would have thought that within his severely contorted and convulsed body lay a razor sharp mind and a thirst for knowledge? Certainly not the medical community, which had been so willing to consign him to institutional living. Armed with his left foot, the only part of his body over which he seemed to have some control, Christy Brown would demonstrate to the world who he really was. He was, after all, not the imbecile that the medical community had originally thought but an intelligent and sentient human being.<br />This is Christy Brown's triumphant and inspirational story of his battle to learn to read, write, and paint, all with the aid of his left foot. It is an inspirational story of his quest for fulfillment. His yearning to be as others are is palpable, and his struggle for acceptance beyond the borders of his home and his physical limitations are well articulated. Christy Brown gives the reader a birds-eye view of what it is like to be a person with severe cerebral palsy. First published in Great Britain in 1954, when Christy Brown was twenty-two, this book, written with his left foot, is a testament to the resiliency of the human spirit.ance beyond the borders of his home and his physical limitations are well articulated. Christy Brown gives the reader a birds-eye view of what it is like to be a person with severe cerebral palsy. First published in Great Britain in 1954, when Christy Brown was twenty-two, this book, written with his left foot, is a testament to the resiliency of the human spirit.	2004-05-31
648554:US	49355567	R1ARI0VJSVLIKX	158648236X	354868531	Separate, But Equal: Images from the Segregated South	Books	5	1	1	N	N	BLACK MIDDLE CLASS LIFE UNDER JIM CROW IN THE DEEP SOUTH...	This book is a moving pictorial testament to the daily life of middle class blacks in the deep South in the time of Jim Crow, as well as on the cusp of the civil rights movement.  It is a slice of black life with which most whites at the time were unfamiliar, as most photo-journalists chose to capture the more sensational types of images in the black community.<br />Henry Clay Anderson was a black school teacher and minister who, courtesy of the G. I. Bill, studied photography and  became a professional photographer. In 1948,  he established his own business, Anderson Photo Service, in Greenville, Mississippi, where he lived. For more than forty years, he would photograph moments in the lives of Greenville's black middle class community, forever freezing in time images of a rich life that paralleled those of their white counterparts in the Jim Crow South, separate but equal.<br />The book has one hundred and thirty of his photographs, memorializing a time long past but one that continues to haunt America today.  Clifton L. Taulbert, who was raised in Mississippi in a town not far from Greenville  and is the noted author of the book, &quot;Once Upon a Time When We Were Colored&quot;, writes a poignant and moving essay in remembrance of the black denizens of Greenville, grounding the photographs in the context of the times out of which they arose. It is as if it were a walk down memory lane.<br />Mary Panzer, curator of photographs at the National Portrait Gallery in Washington, D.C.,  writes an essay that details Mr. Anderson's photographic involvement in the early civil rights movement,  when he agreed to go travel to Belzoni, Mississippi in 1955. Belzoni had been the scene of the grisly shooting of Rev. Gus Lee, a black civil rights activist who had been involved in voter registration efforts. Mr. Anderson's photographs memorialized the shooting and its aftermath, appearing in  magazines such as &quot;Jet&quot; and &quot;Ebony&quot;, which were well known in the black community. Ms. Panzer grounds his photographs in the political context of the time, which affirm Mr. Anderson's political commitment.<br />There are also two essays in Mr. Anderson's own words that are culled from two interviews conducted by Daisy Greene for the Washington County Oral History Project and by Shawn Wilson, in whom the idea for this book germinated. The book is a loving tribute to Henry Clay Anderson. His legacy of photographic images  will delight and haunt those who look at them, seeing in them not only America's past but its future. This is simply a beautiful book.ack community. Ms. Panzer grounds his photographs in the political context of the time, which affirm Mr. Anderson's political commitment.<br />There are also two essays in Mr. Anderson's own words that are culled from two interviews conducted by Daisy Greene for the Washington County Oral History Project and by Shawn Wilson, in whom the idea for this book germinated. The book is a loving tribute to Henry Clay Anderson. His legacy of photographic images  will delight and haunt those who look at them, seeing in them not only America's past but its future. This is simply a beautiful book.	2004-05-31
648936:US	49355567	R17BUET24O1PZ6	0606167706	350221871	Within Reach: My Everest Story	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	TEEN TIME ON EVEREST...	This is a terrific book for teens, young adults, and, yes, adults about a Rhode Island teenager, Mark Pfetzer, who makes his dreams come true. The book is written as if it were a personal journal, and in it Mark takes the reader on a journey into his young life. He shares with the reader how his interest in climbing developed, as well as his early climbing experiences.<br />Mark, mature in many ways beyond his years, is not your typical teenager. Clean cut, intelligent, fit, and not given to peer pressure, he is a bit of a loner with a dash of entrepreneurial flair. As his climbing experience increases, so does his desire for snow capped peaks. This desire motivates him to get sponsors for his world wide travels that take him to the vast mountainous regions around the globe. Mind you, he begins his world wide travels, unaccompanied by his parents, at the ripe old age of thirteen.<br />While one may question the wisdom of letting someone so young travel around the world to do high altitude climbing, it does not diminish the pleasure one derives from reading about a young person who derives such joy from his travels and climbing. While at times Mark seems a little full of himself, one must remember that, notwithstanding his achievements, he is still a teenager, and, like most teenagers, he has his moments.<br />Still, his chronicle makes for a very interesting read. His endeavors on high altitude peaks, including Everest, are noteworthy, notwithstanding that he climbed with guided expeditions. While towards the end of his journal he may appear to be suffering from trophy mountain madness, it does not diminish the palpable love of climbing that permeates the pages of the book.<br />Mark is, without a doubt, a son of which any parent would be proud. I am sure that he will continue to live his life to the fullest. I look forward to reading about any future adventures that he may commit to paper. Dream on, Mark, and may all your dreams come true.	2004-05-30
649336:US	49355567	R1PFN11CI6TDQ4	3811216732	414112513	Everest. Der lange Weg zum Gipfel.	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A PICTURE IS WORTH A THOUSAND WORDS....	This is a nice pictorial history of Mount Everest with accompanying text. While the text is not wholly factually accurate, it does give one a feeling of the tumultuous history surrounding Mount Everest, ever since modern man attempted to scale its heights.<br />The ninety photographs will delight Everest junkies everywhere. Those of Mount Everest, in particular, are spectacular, and alone are worth the price of the book. The photographs, however, are not only of Everest, but are also of those mountaineers who braved the elements to try and unravel its mystery. It is a lovely book which has a place in the library of anyone who is a true Everest aficionado.	2004-05-30
649338:US	49355567	R15DQ2TXVC30AC	8401013402	398244567	Fantasmas del Everest, Los (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	BECAUSE IT'S THERE...	This is a beautifully and lavishly illustrated, textually rich book. It is sure to enthrall all mystery lovers, Everest aficionados, nostalgia junkies, history buffs, and climbing enthusiasts. This book is sure to provide the reader with many hours of enjoyment. Its Spanish translation will ensure that  speakers of Spanish will also be able to enjoy it, as well.<br />The book chronicles the search for George Mallory and Andrew Irvine by the 1999 Mallory &amp; Irvine Research Expedition. It juxtaposes the dramatic turn of events during their expedition with those of the 1924 British Everest Expedition which saw Mallory and Irvine attempt a summit climb, only to disappear into the mists of Everest, never to be seen again. It makes for a spell binding narrative, as past events are woven through present day ones.<br />The 1999 Mallory &amp; Irvine Research Expedition was a meticulously well-prepared and well-organized venture. With its discovery of George Leigh Mallory's body, it enjoyed much success. The research and analysis that went into its ultimate, well thought out conclusions were comprehensive and fascinating, with its strong reliance upon forensics and deductive reasoning. Their reconstruction of Mallory's and Irvine's last climb is riveting. Unfortunately, the ultimate question still remains unanswered. Did they or did they not reach the summit of Mount Everest back in 1924?<br />The beautiful photographs of the personal effects found upon Mallory's person underscore a certain poignancy about the discovery of Mallory's well preserved body. The photographs, which memorialize this discovery, are amazingly lovely and tasteful, considering its subject matter, and hauntingly illustrate the finality with which Everest may deal with mountaineers, no matter how accomplished.<br />The photographs also highlight how ill equipped for the harsh climatic conditions were the early Everest expeditions. It is amazing, and a credit to those early expeditioners' courage and fortitude, in braving such an inhospitable and harsh terrain with the inadequate clothing and equipment available to them at the time. Mallory and Irvine were certainly intrepid explorers!<br />This book is a fitting tribute to two men who sought to make a historic summit and, in their attempt, would forever be a part of Everest.rtitude, in braving such an inhospitable and harsh terrain with the inadequate clothing and equipment available to them at the time. Mallory and Irvine were certainly intrepid explorers!<br />This book is a fitting tribute to two men who sought to make a historic summit and, in their attempt, would forever be a part of Everest.	2004-05-30
649447:US	49355567	R264DA0LICUC6	2266111140	860646088	La Longue nuit d'Eden Close	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A WORTHY DEBUT NOVEL...	This, the author's debut novel, is a well crafted, fictional work that keeps the reader turning its pages. The book is premised upon unfinished business in the past that needs closure, before the future can begin anew. Here, Andrew, a divorced man in his mid thirties, returns home to the upstate New York town in which he grew up, in order to attend his mother's funeral and take care of her estate. Being there, in his childhood home, brings back memories of a night, half a lifetime ago, in which his neighbor's home reverberated with the sound of gunfire, forever changing the life of his childhood friend and neighbor, Eden Close.<br />Adopted by Jim and Edith Close after being left in a box on their doorstep shortly after her birth, Jim lavished love and a great deal of physical affection on Eden. Edith, on the other hand, always remained strangely aloof from this beautiful child whom she seemed to view as an intrusion in their lives. Eden, friends with Andrew while growing up, was blinded in the terrible tragedy which engulfed her home one night and saw Jim Close killed. Withdrawing from the world at large, she remained a virtual recluse in her adoptive mother's home, while Andrew got on with his life, went to college, and left home.<br />In returning for his mother's funeral, Andrew sets about trying to unravel the mystery that has enshrouded Eden since that terrible night. The author gives the reader glimpses into the past through a series of flashbacks, which show the bittersweet relationship that Andrew and Eden had shared when younger, a bond that to this day had remained unbroken. It is this unspoken bond that prompts Andrew to try and bring Eden out of her reclusive state. It is an attempt that is to have great ramifications for all. The author weaves a seamless tapestry that fully engages the reader. It is a haunting and beautifully rendered story that will leave the reader eagerly awaiting the author's next book. This French language translation will allow speakers of French to enjoy this finely crafted, debut novel.peakers of French to enjoy this finely crafted, debut novel.	2004-05-30
649491:US	49355567	RF157IBKVWZMM	8850200625	833678411	La Moglie del Pilota / The Pilot's Wife	Books	5	1	1	N	N	AN ILLUSORY MARRIAGE...	This is a beautifully written novel about a happily married woman, Kathryn Lyons, whose husband, Jack, is an airline pilot. They have a teenage daughter named Mattie. They live in her lovely childhood home in Ely, New Hampshire. For sixteen years life has been good. Then her husband goes down with his plane, just ten miles off the coast of Ireland, and ever so slowly the very fabric of their life together unravels.<br />The media frenzy, surrounding the explosion of the plane that her husband was piloting, brings to light the plain fact that her husband had been, unbeknownst to her, leading a double life, a life that had not included her or their daughter, but had, most emphatically, excluded them. This is a story of Kathryn's navigation of the emotional roller coaster that was to become her life. She is thrust into a maelstrom of grief and disbelief, as she struggles to reconcile her memory of the man she thought she knew, with the reality of who he now appeared to have been.<br />This is a remarkable book, written in clean spare prose that underscores some of the very emotion laden issues with which it grapples. At times infinitely sad and poignant, it is a story of betrayal and splintered memories, as well as a very absorbing, skillfully told tale of adultery that will hold the reader in its thrall.	2004-05-30
649508:US	49355567	R2TEU5DNHTB0Y3	2700310705	400373485	Annapurna premier huit mille	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A FRENCH FIRST...	This is the French text edition of a book that is a romanticized, sanitized account of the 1950 French expedition to the Himalayas, written by its erstwhile leader, Maurice Herzog. It is a book that is reflective of the times in which it was written. Still, it should be a must read for anyone who is interested in high altitude climbing. This is the original French language text.<br /><br />I first read the English translation of this book in the early 1960s as a young teenager. I recall being enthralled by it and amazed at the hardships the climbers endured to bring glory to France. In reading it again as an adult, I find myself still enthralled, but more attuned to the fact that it is written in a somewhat self-serving style.<br /><br />The book itself chronicles the attempt by the French to climb an 8,000 meter peak in the Himalayas. They had two alternatives: Dhaulagiri and Annapurna. In those days, the Himalayas were largely uncharted and any topographical maps which existed at the time proved to be largely incorrect. So, the French expedition spent a large portion of their time in reconnaissance. Not only were they there to climb the mountain, they had to find a way to get to it and then map out a route on the unknown terrain to the summit. Ultimately, they chose to climb Annapurna.<br /><br />In reading this book, one must remember that the climb took place without the sophisticated equipment or protective clothing available today. This was before gortex and freeze-dried foods. This climb was made before Nepal or climbing the Himalayas became a major tourist attraction. The conditions for travelers were extremely primitive and difficult under the best of circumstances.<br /><br />When the expedition finally finds a route to Annapurna, the reader almost feels like cheering for them. When they start to climb, one senses that, in comparison to latter day expeditions, they are not so well equipped or savvy about the dangers one can encounter during a high altitude climb or the risks in doing it without supplemental oxygen, as they did. Then one realizes that they were pioneers. They were paving the way for others.<br /><br />The climb to the summit by Maurice Herzog and his partner, Louis Lachenal, is interesting, but it is their harrowing descent and return to civilization which is riveting. The two summiteers begin their descent but run into difficulties. They are fortunate to encounter two of their fellow climbers, Lionel Terray and Gaston Rebuffat, who are contemplating their own summit assault but, instead, choose to aid their comrades in the descent, foregoing their own quest for the summit.<br /><br />The travails which the climbers encounter on the descent would have finished off less hardy souls. Maurice Herzog loses his gloves during the descent and has no spare pair. One of them falls into a crevasse which, believe it or not, turns out to be a good thing. They are caught in an avalanche. They get lost in a storm. They become frostbitten, and two of them are, ultimately, forced to endure amputations.<br /><br />The medical treatment they received by the expedition doctor is unbelievable and almost primitive. Employing treatments for frostbite that have since fallen onto disrepute (excruciatingly painful arterial injections, for example), the doctor is almost frightening, at times. The reader cannot help but feel pity for the suffering the injured climbers endured: maggot ridden flesh, amputations without anesthesia, and lack of proper medical care for a protracted period of time.<br /><br />The heroics of some of the Sherpas, as on most expeditions, go largely unsung. One must, however, pause to reflect on the fact that as this all took place before airlifts were available, the injured climbers had to be carried. Their exodus back to the frontier took about five weeks. Who carried them down the mountain, over the moraines, on makeshifts bridges over flooded, raging rivers, through dense jungle? Who else but the sherpas. What thanks did they get? None, as usual.<br /><br />Anyway, when the expedition finally return to France, Maurice Herzog is lauded as a national hero by the French. He becomes the media darling. The other three climbers, as are the rest of those on the expedition, are largely ignored and forgotten. Therein lies the tale. If you want to know how this polarization came about, I highly recommend that you also read 'True Summit' by David Roberts. It gives you the inside scoop about the expedition and how things really were.<br /><br />Notwithstanding its idealization and romanticism, Herzog's book is still a must read for all climbing enthusiasts.rpas. What thanks did they get? None, as usual.<br /><br />Anyway, when the expedition finally return to France, Maurice Herzog is lauded as a national hero by the French. He becomes the media darling. The other three climbers, as are the rest of those on the expedition, are largely ignored and forgotten. Therein lies the tale. If you want to know how this polarization came about, I highly recommend that you also read 'True Summit' by David Roberts. It gives you the inside scoop about the expedition and how things really were.<br /><br />Notwithstanding its idealization and romanticism, Herzog's book is still a must read for all climbing enthusiasts.	2004-05-30
649685:US	49355567	R287YCRHJ706D0	3453136535	159398269	Der Fluch von Belheddon Hall.	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A SENSUAL AND ATMOSPHERIC GHOST STORY...	This is the German text edition of \\"House of Echoes\\", a beautifully written novel about a haunted manor in the English countryside. It is the story of a young, married woman, Jocelyn Grant, who inherits that country manor, Belheddon Hall, from her biological mother whom she never knew, as she had put her up for adoption a few months after her birth. Jocelyn, her husband, Luke, and her young son, Tom, happily move into the house, despite having heard warnings from the local townspeople that there is something quite odd about the house.<br /><br />That happiness, however, soon turns to dread, as Jocelyn and her family begin to hear the laughter of young boys echoing throughout the house, as well as see physical manifestations of a knight in armor. Moreover, the scent of roses, at times, permeates the house, and someone or something keeps leaving white roses strewn throughout Belheddon Hall.<br /><br />Jocelyn also begins to hear a ghostly voice calling out to someone named Katherine and finds herself being sensuously touched by someone other than her husband; someone whom she does not see, until it is too late. Her son, Tom, often sees an apparition, whom he refers to as the \\"tin man\\", and wakes up with bruises all over his body. Her fear is compounded when she realizes that no male heir has ever lived to inherit Belheddon Hall, and that the house has come down to her by strict, matrilineal descent.<br /><br />Understanding the implications of her realization, and by now having two young sons about which to worry, she fights against the disbelief of her husband to combat the evil that lies at the root of the strange and frightening happenings at the Hall. How this is accomplished, and the story brought to its chilling climax, is what keeps the reader riveted to the very end. The book is absolutely gripping.	2004-05-30
667491:US	49355567	R15LE71AVKC03S	155652532X	829916644	Katherine (Rediscovered Classics)	Books	5	537	548	N	Y	A LOVE AFFAIR THAT ROCKED FOURTEENTH CENTURY ENGLAND...	Written over half a century ago, this well-researched historical fiction is as vibrant and as stirring today, as it, undoubtedly, was when it was first written. A best seller in its day, the book regales the reader with the story of Katherine De Roet and John of Gaunt.<br /><br />Born commoners to a herald who was knighted before he died, Katherine and her older sister Philippa, who went on to marry Geoffrey Chaucer, were left poor as church mice. While Philippa managed to obtain a post in the household of the Queen, wife to King Edward III of England, Katherine was sent to a convent.<br /><br />When she had grown into her early teens and become a raving beauty, Katherine left the convent to join her sister at Court. Upon doing so, her youthful beauty captivated a boorish knight, Sir Hugh Swynford, who lusted after her. He, eventually, married Katherine, when it became clear that it would be the only way by which he could satisfy his desire.<br /><br />At the same time that she met her husband to be, she also caught the eye of  John of Gaunt, the Duke of Lancaster, son of King Edward III and brother to the heir to the throne, Edward, the Black Prince. John was, at the time, happily  married to a beautiful woman named Blanche, who would befriend Katherine.<br /><br />After reluctantly becoming Lady Swynford, Katherine retired to her husband's estates. She would meet John of Gaunt again, igniting a passion that upon the death of  Blanche and that of Sir Hugh Swynford would be consummated.  For John of Gaunt, Katherine would remain the love of his life and his mistress, even though, for reasons of state, he could not marry her, at the time.  He, instead, married the heiress to the throne of Castile.<br /><br />Still, Katherine remained with him, bearing him many children. Their illicit union was to cause much unrest and scandal throughout England, until they finally parted, only to reunite in their later years. John of Gaunt would then do something unprecedented. This act would bring them much happiness in their final years.<br /><br />This is a richly drawn portrait of a scintillating love affair in a time that was rife with political intrigue. Set in a medieval landscape with all the pageantry, strife, and turbulence that constituted fourteenth century England, this beautifully written narrative is peppered with those characters and individuals that made the period memorable. It is a novel to be savored and one with which the most discerning reader would be well satisfied. Bravo!act would bring them much happiness in their final years.<br /><br />This is a richly drawn portrait of a scintillating love affair in a time that was rife with political intrigue. Set in a medieval landscape with all the pageantry, strife, and turbulence that constituted fourteenth century England, this beautifully written narrative is peppered with those characters and individuals that made the period memorable. It is a novel to be savored and one with which the most discerning reader would be well satisfied. Bravo!	2004-05-15
683480:US	49355567	RMXQHOBE0JQN2	0670888087	843664165	The Danish Girl	Books	5	40	45	N	N	PORTRAIT OF A MARRIAGE...	This is a stunning debut novel by someone who is no novice to the publishing industry, as he is the director of The Modern Library, which is  a division of Random House. With this book as his entree into the ranks of novelist, Mr. Ebershoff rightly claims a place among the distinguished. This is a most elegantly written novel.<br />His book is loosely based upon the true story of Danish painters, Einar Wegener and Gerda Waud. They met in Copenhagen, while they were both art students, and married a few years later. He painted landscapes, while she would become known for her paintings of a mysterious sloe-eyed beauty. When it eventually became known that the model for the mysterious beauty in Gerda's paintings was, in fact, her cross-dressing husband, they became the scandal of Copenhagen. They left Denmark and sought refuge in Paris, France, where the mystery woman of Gerda's paintings began appearing in the flesh among the denizens of the Parisian demi-monde.<br />There is little doubt that Gerda encouraged her husband in his cross-dressing, as well as in his eventual surgical transformation.  In 1930, the couple again turned the world on its head when it became known that Einar Wegener had undergone the world's first known sex re-assignment operation in Germany, and emerged as Lili Elbe. This provoked the King of Denmark himself to annul their marriage.  Unfortunately, Lili Elbe's life as a surgically transformed woman ended in 1931 with her death.<br />The author expertly weaves these facts, which were the inspiration for this novel, into a lyrically written, haunting narrative about two people who were bound to each other by an unconditional love that would transcend the conventional. He creates an intriguing, spellbinding story that is a sensitive portrait of a most unusual marriage. The author takes the reader on a journey into the imagined psyche of these two individuals, as their marriage slowly devolves and Lili becomes more and more prominent in their lives. The author leads the reader through Lili's gradual  metamorphosis, her poignant self-realization, and the final denouement of the marriage. This is an exquisitely crafted novel by a very gifted writer. Bravo!. The author leads the reader through Lili's gradual  metamorphosis, her poignant self-realization, and the final denouement of the marriage. This is an exquisitely crafted novel by a very gifted writer. Bravo!	2004-05-02
702374:US	49355567	R1LPWROMHVQX19	0767917413	294139421	I Don't Mean to Be Rude, But...: Backstage Gossip from American Idol & the Secrets that Can Make You a Star	Books	5	6	9	N	Y	CALLING ALL HARD CORE "AMERICAN IDOL" FANS...	If one is an insatiable, hard core fan of the \\"American Idol\\" show, then this book is for you. It reads in Simon Cowell's voice, as it has the same tart, waspish tone he uses on the show. He tells it like it is. The book is full of behind the scenes dish about the show, its contestants, and its judges. It is brought to the reader by the ultimate insider, Simon Cowell.<br /><br />The author gives a brief overview of his life, beginning when he was young and growing up in England. He recounts how he got involved in the music industry and details his rise to  the top of his field, becoming one of the most in demand music impresarios the world over. The book further details how this intrepid Brit's rise to fame and fortune eventually led to the creation of the British hit show, \\"Pop Idol\\", which ultimately led to the creation of the American version. Believe it or not, \\"American Idol\\" was a hard sell, until the folks at Fox came into the picture. The rest is history.<br /><br />Those who love the \\"American Idol\\" show and simply cannot get enough, this strangely compelling book will fill that emptiness with a lot of backstage gossip about the show's first season  and everyone associated with it. Some of it will surprise you. One thing is for sure, this breezy little book will keep the reader turning its pages. If one is not a rabid \\"American Idol\\" fan, deduct at least one star from my rating and proceed at your own risk.	2004-04-18
702728:US	49355567	R3SS92YMXMOLX4	1561004774	213762898	Shadows	Books	3	4	8	N	N	A BOOK THAT ONLY JOHN SAUL FANS WILL LOVE...	This is a yet another formulaic horror story by the author of multiple bestsellers in this genre. Plot driven, with little character development, and a prosaically written narrative, the book is mediocre fare, at best.<br />This time, the horror takes place at The Academy, a school for gifted children. When ten year old, whiz kid Josh McCallum tries to commit suicide after enduring the endless taunts of his less gifted classmates in a mainstream school, his single mother enrolls him in The Academy, thinking that she has found a haven for her gifted son.<br />There, Josh feels at home, meeting other extraordinarily gifted children and making friends. Run by a Dr. Engersol, the resident mad scientist, and  presided over by an ostensibly motherly woman named Hildie, Josh is, at first, taken in by the seemingly comfortable atmosphere of The Academy. Soon, he finds himself becoming friends with a precocious, freckle-faced redhead named Amy.<br />When a mysterious suicide takes place at the school, it is quickly swept under the rug. Josh and Amy shortly find themselves enrolled in a special seminar run by Dr. Engersol, where it is obvious all is not what it seems. Josh and Amy's idyllic and brief relationship soon comes to a grinding halt, when Amy is caught in the vortex of Dr. Engersol's madness, and Hildie is revealed for what she really is. It is up to Josh to set things right, a substantial burden for any ten year old, no matter how smart.<br />All in all, this is a book that only dedicated fans of author John Saul will love. All others will find it to be nothing more than a quick, throwaway read.	2004-04-17
703282:US	49355567	R1AD02JNM4SQ3V	0140053166	35030633	Shadow of the Moon	Books	5	83	85	N	Y	WHEN WORLDS COLLIDE...	This is a superlative work of beautifully written, well-researched historical fiction by the author of the best selling, sweeping epic, \\"The Far Pavilions\\". The author was born in India, where she lived most of her life. Her love of  that country is evident in her loving, descriptive passages of the land of her birth. Her assessment of Anglo-Indian relations during the time of the British Raj is infused in the characters of her spellbinding novel. With exotic, mid-nineteenth century India as a backdrop for most of this  engrossing story, the reader is swept away by its beautifully descriptive narrative. It is in India that the fate of a beautiful, young, Anglo-Spaniard heiress  with the improbable name of Winter Ballasteros and that of Captain  Alex Randall, a commissioned officer with the East India Company, are irrevocably intertwined.<br /><br />Born in India and orphaned at an early age, Winter is brought up in England but is always longing for the land of her birth. The opportunity to return home to India presents itself when she is betrothed at a tender age to the debauched Conway Barton, the grasping Commissioner of Lunjore, who is many years her senior. Captain Randall, who is sent by the Commissioner to escort his betrothed to India, is loathe to do so, knowing the Commissioner to be no fit husband for a seventeen year old girl, Moreover, Captain Randall is keenly sensitive to the potentially dangerous feelings of unrest that seem to be sweeping India, as its native population begins to chafe under the insensitive rule of its colonial masters.<br /><br />Once in India and against a backdrop of native unrest, Winter and Captain Randall slowly begin to develop a relationship. When the Sepoy Rebellion of 1857 occurs, Winter and Captain Randall are thrown together. They discover that they must struggle to survive the madness and bloodlust that is all around them, as they witness atrocities beyond comprehension. The author gives a vivid re-creation of the Siege of Delhi, as well as a plaintive telling of the massacre of women and children at Cawnpore, a horrific bloodbath from which even the natives themselves shrank. It is against this tumultuous, historical backdrop that the personal drama of Winter and Captain Randall is juxtaposed.<br /><br />With a wonderful cast of Indian and Anglo characters, the author gives the reader a sense of the vastness of India with its many different religions and castes. She successfully depicts the colonialist attitudes that would serve to unite Indians whose paths might not ordinarily cross and galvanize them to take violent action in an attempt to break the oppressive, colonial yoke. The Sepoy Rebellion of 1857 would be a lesson that England would long remember.<br /><br />This is a riveting novel that those who love well-written historical fiction will enjoy, as will those who simply love a well told tale. Bravo!of Delhi, as well as a plaintive telling of the massacre of women and children at Cawnpore, a horrific bloodbath from which even the natives themselves shrank. It is against this tumultuous, historical backdrop that the personal drama of Winter and Captain Randall is juxtaposed.<br /><br />With a wonderful cast of Indian and Anglo characters, the author gives the reader a sense of the vastness of India with its many different religions and castes. She successfully depicts the colonialist attitudes that would serve to unite Indians whose paths might not ordinarily cross and galvanize them to take violent action in an attempt to break the oppressive, colonial yoke. The Sepoy Rebellion of 1857 would be a lesson that England would long remember.<br /><br />This is a riveting novel that those who love well-written historical fiction will enjoy, as will those who simply love a well told tale. Bravo!	2004-04-17
706829:US	49355567	R2Q8WDX42I4CO3	0380005700	294649808	Castles in the Air	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A DREAM COME TRUE...	This is a well-written work of historical fiction. It opens on the heels of the end of the Civil War. The South is vanquished, while the North is reaping the benefits of being the victor. After all, it is to the victor to whom the spoils must go.<br />The author tells the story of  beautiful and headstrong young woman, Devon Marshall, a southern miss from Richmond, Virginia, whose father, a newspaper publisher, has just killed himself, leaving her orphaned. Wanting to be a journalist during a time when it was almost unheard of for a woman to desire such an occupation, she knows that she must leave the pillaged South and head North to New York.<br />Her passage North is made possible when she meets handsome and dashing Keith Curtis, a married multi-millionaire and financier from New York and, initially, becomes his reluctant mistress. Once in New York, however, and despite resistance to the idea by Keith, Devon slowly begins her quest to fulfill her dream of a career in journalism. Her dream eventually comes into conflict with her sweeping romance with Keith, who fails to understand her dream.<br />As Devon begins to move among the power brokers of New York, from those in the financial district to those of Tammany Hall, where greed and corruption are the bywords of the day, she begins to make a name for herself among the journalistic glitterati. Finding herself enmeshed with the feminist vanguard of the day, she also finds herself straddling two worlds, that of her journalistic dream and that of her illicit, back door liaison with Keith.  It is little wonder that she one day finds her worlds colliding.<br />This is romantic historical fiction at its best, infused with actual, well-known  personages of the day, historical events, and the social mores of nineteenth century America. It is rich in the profundities of human nature and gripping in its storytelling. It tells a tale about life among the rich and famous in nineteenth century  New York and Washington, D.C. and of one woman's search to achieve the American dream.of one woman's search to achieve the American dream.	2004-04-14
713327:US	49355567	R23UNWSJLXMP4Z	0440116961	410982962	A Dark & Distant Shore	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	HISTORICAL FICTION WITH A PANORAMIC SWEEP	Those readers with an affinity for Scotland and an appreciation for the  historical fiction genre will certainly enjoy this well-written novel. Reay Tannahill is an excellent writer of historical fiction and this book is no exception. With a multitude of well-fleshed characters,  an intricate, generational plot that spans several continents, and numerous historic events, this book will keep all lovers of historical fiction turning its pages.<br />The book revolves around Vilia Cameron, daughter and only child of  Theo Cameron, the Laird of Kinveil, a remote castle in the Scottish highlands. It is Vilia's love of and obsession with this castle, the home of all her forebears that, once lost due to her father's inability to manage its finances, is the driving force in her life and at the core of all her happiness and unhappiness.<br />While Vilia Cameron and her obsession with Kinveil are the focal point of the novel, another family, the Telfers,  plays a large part. When Mungo Telfer, a rich merchant sees Kinveil, steeped with over five hundred years of Scottish history, he falls in love with it. Knowing that  Theo Cameron, the current Laird of Kinveil, is financially strapped, Mungo Telfer makes him an offer that he cannot refuse, and so the castle is sold to the highest bidder. That was the day that would live in infamy in the mind of seven year old Vilia Cameron. It is a day that she would never forget, as her beloved home slipped away from her. Yet, curiously enough, Mungo Telfer and Vilia were to form a bond that day that would forever bind the Camerons and the Telfers throughout their lives.<br />Vilia's desire to have Kinveil in her possession would brook no interference. It was to be hers at all costs. This single, ruthless ambition of hers  would drive her throughout her entire life and impact greatly on her life, as well as on the lives of her children and all those whose lives were to  become intertwined with hers. Beautiful and driven, she would eventually embark upon a forbidden love that was to never be, as it was supplanted by this driving, burning ambition to be mistress in her childhood home. Her ambition would one day come to fruition, but it would end up costing  her more than she could ever have  imagined.<br />This is a well-researched work of historical fiction, in which nineteenth century Scotland comes to life in the author's capable hands, as do its characters, infused with the social mores and beliefs of the era. The book is also interspersed with notable historical events of the day.  Of particular interest is the Sepoy rebellion in India, which is  told from the perspective of a young woman who finds herself in India through Vilia's clever, though somewhat diabolical,  behind the scene machinations.  While some of the sub-plots that help move the story along may, at times, strain the reader's credulity, the overall story is one that carries the reader along to its finale. It is one that those who enjoy historical fiction will particularly appreciate, as will those who simply enjoy a good story.embark upon a forbidden love that was to never be, as it was supplanted by this driving, burning ambition to be mistress in her childhood home. Her ambition would one day come to fruition, but it would end up costing  her more than she could ever have  imagined.<br />This is a well-researched work of historical fiction, in which nineteenth century Scotland comes to life in the author's capable hands, as do its characters, infused with the social mores and beliefs of the era. The book is also interspersed with notable historical events of the day.  Of particular interest is the Sepoy rebellion in India, which is  told from the perspective of a young woman who finds herself in India through Vilia's clever, though somewhat diabolical,  behind the scene machinations.  While some of the sub-plots that help move the story along may, at times, strain the reader's credulity, the overall story is one that carries the reader along to its finale. It is one that those who enjoy historical fiction will particularly appreciate, as will those who simply enjoy a good story.	2004-04-09
713807:US	49355567	R1F3US3E0ZFO7O	015122563X	904339440	Conundrum: From James to Jan - An Extraordinary Personal Narrative of Transsexualism	Books	5	47	49	N	Y	MAN ENOUGH TO BE A WOMAN...	This is an intriguing memoir, beautifully written by an author who has written numerous other non-fiction books. Jan Morris, formerly known as James Morris, was the correspondent for the London Times assigned to cover England's historic summit of Everest. The author actually accompanied the expedition to the Himalayas and did on site dispatches of the historic event. It would be as James Morris that she would  write the wonderful book, &quot;Coronation Everest&quot;, which chronicles the events leading to the historic summit of Everest by Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay on the eve of the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II. The author would eventually become a celebrated writer of many travel books, journeying the world over.<br />This very personal  book is an autobiographical  narrative of the author's own gender dysphoria, as she, a biological male at birth, had always felt that she had been born into the wrong body.  Elegantly written, it is not a book for those who are seeking tabloid sensationalism. Rather, it is, at times,  somewhat anachronistic in feel, as it was written by someone who lived through a time when actual gender changes were still in the nascent stages. Passing historical references are made to those transsexuals who paved the way for others.<br />The author's account of her early life is fascinating, as much of it was spent in traditional male pursuits of the time. A stint in the army as a member of the 9th Queen's Royal Lancers,  years as a well-known foreign correspondent, as well as husband  and father, were all roles in which the author found some satisfaction but never total fulfillment, as her gender dysphoria continually intruded upon her happiness, a dark cloud hovering  over all that she did and all that she was.<br />The author's recollection of her lifelong, personal conundrum over gender is graced with self-deprecating wit and  humor. It is a first rate autobiographical account of the author's journey across the shivering sands of gender dysphoria. Born in 1927,  the author, with the support of Elizabeth, her wife and best friend,  crossed the gender frontier at the age of forty five, after having spent thirty-five years as a male and ten additional years in androgynous  transition as a hormonal chimera.<br />It was with her surgery in a clinic in Casablanca in 1972 that the author felt that she finally was able to live her life as she was meant to live it. Her account of her surgery, however, is enough to make one take pause at the sheer desperation to reconcile one's inner self with one's outer self. Still, notwithstanding the seemingly primitive approach of the clinic to such a complex surgery, James Morris crossed the gender frontier and surgically metamorphosed into the woman that she had always felt herself to be, surmounting the last hurdle to self-realization. Thus, Jan Morris was born.<br />This is an extremely literate account of a very personal journey by a  gender dysphoric individual. It is a beautifully realized book that is sure to become a classic in its genre. Bravo!ender dysphoria. Born in 1927,  the author, with the support of Elizabeth, her wife and best friend,  crossed the gender frontier at the age of forty five, after having spent thirty-five years as a male and ten additional years in androgynous  transition as a hormonal chimera.<br />It was with her surgery in a clinic in Casablanca in 1972 that the author felt that she finally was able to live her life as she was meant to live it. Her account of her surgery, however, is enough to make one take pause at the sheer desperation to reconcile one's inner self with one's outer self. Still, notwithstanding the seemingly primitive approach of the clinic to such a complex surgery, James Morris crossed the gender frontier and surgically metamorphosed into the woman that she had always felt herself to be, surmounting the last hurdle to self-realization. Thus, Jan Morris was born.<br />This is an extremely literate account of a very personal journey by a  gender dysphoric individual. It is a beautifully realized book that is sure to become a classic in its genre. Bravo!	2004-04-09
751891:US	49355567	RIA4D43BEUU4P	0880324260	893639310	Women over Fifty Are Better Because...	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	CUTE LITTLE BOOK...	This is a cute collection of cartoons, designed to strike at the funny bone of women over fifty and anyone else who finds humor in the human condition. Buy copies of this little book and give it to your female friends who are over fifty. They will enjoy seeing themselves humorously reflected on the pages of this little book. Will they laugh? Sure...because women over fifty are better.	2004-03-10
753465:US	49355567	R37DLMDUCIEU57	0525938508	564125943	Life on the Color Line	Books	4	69	69	N	Y	CROSSOVER DREAMS...	This is an intriguing memoir that allows the reader to see what life was like for the author whose early life was defined by issues of race and color. The author had spent his early years in Virginia, where his white mother and his dark-skinned &quot;Italian&quot; father operated a roadside tavern. Growing up in the South, where issues of race and color were so important, the author had always thought that he was white, as he had been raised as such. When his parents' business, as well as their marriage, collapsed, his mother left them, forcing his father to return home to his roots in  Muncie, Indiana. Abandoned by their mother, it was there that the author and his younger brother, Mike, were to discover which side of the then great color divide he and his brother were on. The lesson would be a difficult one.<br />In Muncie, Indiana, they were to discover that their father, rather than being Italian, was bi-racial, born of the union of a Black woman and a White father. In those times, however, you were considered to be either White or Black. So in Indiana, he was Black, even though, ironically, in the South he had passed for White. Now, his children, Greg and Mike, were to learn that, notwithstanding their appearance, they were considered to be Black, and forced to live in a segregated world on the wrong side of the race and color divide. They quickly learned what it was to be considered second class citizens. This was the nineteen fifties, during the heyday of the Klu Klux Klan, and well before the Civil Rights Movement had taken hold, so feelings ran very high on issues of race and color.<br />Looking as if they were White but considered to be Black, the boys found themselves in a limbo of sorts, rejected by both Whites and Blacks. They had to learn how to maneuver in this crazy patchwork quilt of absurd and confusing racial notions that would marginalize their existence and make them the target for every miscreant on either side of the race and color divide.  This was to have great impact on the brothers, as they each found their own personal coping mechanism for the deprivation, poverty, hostility and prejudice that circumscribed their life in Indiana. Unfortunately, they ultimately each took divergent paths. The author would  seek legitimate work and higher education as a way to forge ahead in life, while Mike would seek solace in the  lure of easy money, easy women, and life in the fast lane, a choice that would end in personal tragedy for him.<br />The book clearly delineates the fact that, in the nineteen fifties, there were two Americas that existed side by side. One America was born of privilege and opportunity reserved for Whites. The other America was one of repression and lack of opportunity reserved for Blacks. Clearly, those who were defined as Black but wished to pass for White did not do so because of racial hatred. They did so as a way of bypassing a hated system that could so circumscribe someone's potential and ability to seek a better way of life. Who is White? Who is Black? These are questions that should generally be unnecessary. The response should be, &quot;Who cares?&quot;.<br /> The author focuses on his early life, the part that evidently caused him so much pain, while skimming on the latter part of his life. It would have been interesting to have spent some additional time on the latter part, to see how those early experiences affected or shaped the man he was to become and is today. Still, this is an intriguing memoir that is written by someone who has lived in these two Americas and endured. It is a testament to the resiliency of the human spirit.is was to have great impact on the brothers, as they each found their own personal coping mechanism for the deprivation, poverty, hostility and prejudice that circumscribed their life in Indiana. Unfortunately, they ultimately each took divergent paths. The author would  seek legitimate work and higher education as a way to forge ahead in life, while Mike would seek solace in the  lure of easy money, easy women, and life in the fast lane, a choice that would end in personal tragedy for him.<br />The book clearly delineates the fact that, in the nineteen fifties, there were two Americas that existed side by side. One America was born of privilege and opportunity reserved for Whites. The other America was one of repression and lack of opportunity reserved for Blacks. Clearly, those who were defined as Black but wished to pass for White did not do so because of racial hatred. They did so as a way of bypassing a hated system that could so circumscribe someone's potential and ability to seek a better way of life. Who is White? Who is Black? These are questions that should generally be unnecessary. The response should be, &quot;Who cares?&quot;.<br /> The author focuses on his early life, the part that evidently caused him so much pain, while skimming on the latter part of his life. It would have been interesting to have spent some additional time on the latter part, to see how those early experiences affected or shaped the man he was to become and is today. Still, this is an intriguing memoir that is written by someone who has lived in these two Americas and endured. It is a testament to the resiliency of the human spirit.	2004-03-09
759434:US	49355567	R1H4MITW6SAIEE	0449131297	783015101	The Price	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	THE ROAD TO PERDITION...	This is a book that should appeal to those readers who enjoy books by Danielle Steel and Sidney Sheldon. It is a well-written story of love, betrayal, and revenge.<br />The book introduces the reader to a naive, young couple, Sara and Jody, who go to Hollywood with stars in their eyes and dream of succeeding in Tinsel Town.  When Jody, a handsome, fledging screenplay writer, grabs an opportunity to hobnob with those who could ostensibly help his career, he grabs the seemingly golden ring, only to find himself in a living nightmare.<br />A bizarre set of circumstances then takes place, and Sara finds herself widowed. Vowing revenge upon those who had set Jody on the path to certain death, she positions herself so as to be able to exact retribution for the great wrong done to Jody.  Becoming herself a Hollywood insider of influence, she edges ever closer to unraveling the mystery surrounding the events that led to Jody's death.<br />Along the way, however, Sara finds herself falling in love, again. The only question is whether her thirst for revenge will overshadow her ability to love the man who loves her for herself.	2004-03-04
761406:US	49355567	R14I7W0K0408X	3492227694	267833797	Mariana.	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A COMPELLING PAGE TURNER...	It is no wonder that this book won the 1993 Catherine Cookson Fiction Prize! It is a wonderful book written in the best Gothic tradition. Those who love the works of Anya Seton, Barbara Erskine, Victoria Holt, and Catherine Cookson, will love reading &quot;Mariana&quot;. It is, without a doubt, a great read.<br />The book takes the main character, Julia Beckett, to a past life, after she purchases &quot;Greywethers&quot;, a beautiful old sixteenth century house. She has loved the house and been drawn to it ever since she was a young child. Once she moves in, however, life as she knew it ends, and life as Mariana, one half of a pair of star crossed lovers, begins.<br />Mariana lived in the seventeenth century. She and her beloved, Richard de Mornay, the lord of Crofton Hall Manor, were never to live happily ever after, as their life together came to an abrupt end. Yet, they were to be reunited, as his dying words prophesied.<br />It awaited Julia to make things come full circle. As Julia undergoes a past life regression and relives portions of Mariana's life, she ultimately realizes that the past is often found in the present. More important, what once went wrong in the past, may be made right in the here and now.<br />This well-written, spellbinding book is sure to captivate the reader. Bravo!	2004-03-03
784054:US	49355567	R2NCE3YIEWKLED	0609810219	495849844	Mary, Queen of France: The Tudor Princesses	Books	4	64	65	N	N	THE YOUNGER SISTER OF KING HENRY VIII...	Jean Plaidy, renowned writer of historical fiction, who is also known to her legions of fans as Victoria Holt, wrote two books about the Tudor princesses. One is titled &quot;The Thistle and the Rose&quot; and is about Margaret Tudor,  the older sister of King Henry VIII. This book takes a look at his younger sister,  the beautiful, headstrong Mary, who was his favorite. The author, as always, weaves an interesting work of historical fiction gathered from the facts that are known about her subject.<br />The Princess Mary, in keeping with the traditions of the time, was not in control of own fate. Used as a political pawn through the rites of  betrothal, she was finally married off to the sickly King of France, Louis XII, who was more than forty years her senior. Beautiful, vivacious, passionate about her feelings, and headstrong, the teenage Mary went kicking and screaming to the altar, as she was secretly in love with her brother's then best friend, Charles Brandon, a commoner whom King Henry VIII eventually elevated and upon whom he conferred the title of Duke of Suffolk. Before leaving for France, Mary extracted a promise from her brother that he would allow her to marry whom she chose the second time around.<br />Comforted by her brother's promise, Mary would make the most of her relatively brief sojourn in France, where her beauty and charm would capture the devotion of her French subjects, as well as the roving eye of the charming but married  Francois, nephew to King Louis XII and his heir. After biding her time, the ailing King of France died, freeing Mary from her marriage to the kindly, infirm man whom she did not love.<br />Freed from the bonds of her distasteful marriage, Mary, hearing rumors that her brother was again trying to marry her off for political advantage, went into action. When Charles Brandon, who had gone to France at the express command of King Henry VIII in order to escort Mary back to England, arrived in France, Mary asked him to marry her before securing her brother's permission. Brandon finally agreed, though not without some trepidation, as such an act could be viewed as treasonous. Mary, however, was firm in her belief that, in the end, her brother would not deny her her heart's desire and would keep his promise to his favorite sister. So, they eloped before sailing back to England, aided by Francois, who was now the King of France.<br />This an interesting work of historical fiction of a Tudor princess about whom relatively little has been written. Ms. Plaidy expertly weaves those known  facts into a compelling narrative that brings her story to life, though it leaves the reader wanting to know more than is provided by the author. Still, fans of Ms. Plaidy, of which I am one, will not be disappointed.er before securing her brother's permission. Brandon finally agreed, though not without some trepidation, as such an act could be viewed as treasonous. Mary, however, was firm in her belief that, in the end, her brother would not deny her her heart's desire and would keep his promise to his favorite sister. So, they eloped before sailing back to England, aided by Francois, who was now the King of France.<br />This an interesting work of historical fiction of a Tudor princess about whom relatively little has been written. Ms. Plaidy expertly weaves those known  facts into a compelling narrative that brings her story to life, though it leaves the reader wanting to know more than is provided by the author. Still, fans of Ms. Plaidy, of which I am one, will not be disappointed.	2004-02-15
784965:US	49355567	R3EHMDZS05SBI4	8425328071	255995192	Victoria Entra En Escena (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	PRINCESS VICTORIA WAITS IN THE WINGS...	This is another fine, well-written, historical novel by Jean Plaidy, also known to her legion of devoted fans as Victoria Holt. Its Spanish translation allows Spanish speakers to enjoy this excellent author. This, the eleventh book in her Georgian saga, focuses on the House of Hanover's need to secure their dynasty.<br />With King George III under lock and key, suffering from what seemed to be a form of insanity, and the Prince Regent in ill health, all looked to the Regent's daughter, Charlotte, who was pregnant and due to give birth. Unfortunately, the unthinkable happened and  both Charlotte and her baby died during childbirth, leaving the kingdom in a quandary. For though King George III had many children, they were all well into middle age and none had any legitimate children to secure the continuation of the Hanoverian dynasty.<br />This turn of events galvanized the unmarried sons of King George III to marry suitable wives, so as to have legitimate children and secure the line of succession for the House of Hanover. William, the third son and Duke of Clarence, as well as Edward, the fourth son and Duke of Kent, did so. William married Adelaide of Saxe-Coburg Meiningen, while Edward married Victoria Mary Louisa of Saxe-Saalfeld-Coburg. Meanwhile, Ernest, the sinister fifth son and Duke of Cumberland, was already married and hoping to be the one to provide the necessary children.<br />When King George III died and the ailing Prince Regent became King George IV, William and Edward were in a dead heat trying to have heirs. While William and Adelaide were unsuccessful, Edward and Victoria managed to have a daughter, who was to be known as Victoria. Shortly after, Ernest and his wife Augusta had a boy, whom they named George.<br />It looked as if Princess Victoria were in the wings, waiting to become Queen; that is, if nothing happened to prevent her from reaching maturity. Plots, intrigues, and danger lurked around every corner. This is the story of how the little princess of the fourth son of King George III would find herself positioned to one day become sovereign of England.princess of the fourth son of King George III would find herself positioned to one day become sovereign of England.	2004-02-15
792306:US	49355567	R1LZOGK8WD59VQ	0688029809	207454622	Shadow play	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A MYSTERY WITH AN INTRIGUING LITTLE TWIST...	This is a marvelously told, clever little mystery, revolving around a wealthy film buff, Max Devereaux, whose life is totally immersed in films of the past. Even his impressive home calls to mind the fact that it is a replica of Manderley, the gothic mansion in the film &quot;Rebecca&quot;. The rooms within the mansion are themselves re-creations of rooms from favorite films. Max and his wife are totally living some celluloid, cinematic fantasy and engage in amateur theatrical productions within the confines of their home, theatricals that serve to mask a sinister secret.<br />When lovely Christine Grenville, a woman with a somewhat disquieting past, arrives to begin her position as assistant to Max, she finds herself drawn into a bizarre world of make-believe, as well as living in a household where none are whom they appear to be. At first, she is drawn in by the novelty of her surroundings, until she realizes that they are all pawns in a play for which she has no script.<br />This is well-constructed, intriguing mystery, amusing and interesting, with a number of unique twists. I found myself compulsively turning the pages of this book. It is a mystery that will especially appeal to film buffs, as it draws some of its material from many well-known films.	2004-02-09
792587:US	49355567	R304PHCPHU74PP	0060929596	316982155	As Nature Made Him: The Boy Who Was Raised as a Girl	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	ITS NATURE NOT NURTURE...	This is a wonderfully written book and a fascinating look into the debate of nature versus nurture in the area of gender assignment. Intelligent and insightful, the author draws a compassionate portrait of a family who, faced with a decision in the wake of a tragedy, relies upon the advice of a well-respected doctor, which reliance turned out to be misplaced. The book details the aftermath of the family's fateful decision and the impact it was to have on them all.<br />In August 1965, Canadians Janet and Ron Reimer gave birth to identical twin boys, whom they named Brian and Bruce. When they were about eight months old, they arranged to have them circumcised due to a medical condition that caused them pain during urination. Circumcision was to remedy the problem. Little did they know that the circumcision for Bruce would be botched, resulting in the loss of his penis.<br />A plastic surgeon with whom the Reimers had consulted in connection with the catastrophe that had struck Bruce had spoken to a sex researcher who had recommended that they raise Bruce as a girl. Doctors at the Mayo Clinic had suggested that they ought to get a second opinion with regards to that suggestion. The parents  then consulted with a doctor affiliated with John Hopkins Hospital, Dr. John Money, a renowned  doctor in the area of gender transformation, who had been the driving force behind the then controversial surgical gender re-assignment procedure for which the hospital was becoming known.<br />In 1967, the distraught parents met with Dr. Money and shortly after, Bruce became Brenda and clinical castration followed. Thus, their child, who genetically and anatomically had been born a boy, was for all extent and purposes now deemed to be a girl. Brian was now on the other side of the gender divide of his identical twin brother, the twin formerly known as Bruce.<br />Moreover, Dr. Money now had a dream scientific experiment, because he had a set of twins for which the unafflicted twin could act as a control by which to measure the afflicted one. In 1972, Dr. Money disclosed his &quot;twins case&quot; to the medical world, giving a slanted version of the experiment that made it appear to be an unqualified success. Unfortunately, his analysis of the situation did not disclose the difficulties that Brenda was having and her seeming inability to adjust to being a girl.<br />Apparently, though Brenda had no idea as she was growing up that she had originally been born a boy, she never felt that she was a girl. Years of follow-up visits with Dr. Money for both twins proved to be unsettling for them, as Dr. Money employed somewhat bizarre methods and procedures. Moreover, as Brenda grew older, she would resist additional surgeries and initially resisted the hormone therapy that was introduced on the eve of puberty. Even when confronted with a totally rebellious Brenda, Dr. Money, however,  remained in denial about the failure of his experiment. He would continue to tout his treatment of Brenda as an unqualified success.<br />It was not until March of 1980 that Brenda was finally informed by her father about what had happened to her years ago and what had been decided in light of the circumstances. It was a revelation that was to dramatically change Brenda's life. What followed was a repudiation of Dr. Money's assertions with respect to his treatment. The book details the changes that Brenda was to make in her life, changes that would find her living the life she was originally meant to lead. Brenda would now become David and live the life of a male.<br />This is a simply wonderful, intimate look at a family that survived a hideous tragedy. It also sympathetically and sensitively details the personal  journey of one family through the labyrinthine differences in opinion surrounding the age old debate over nature versus nature. I would certainly assert that nature, and not nurture, controls. This is a very well thought out book on the issue, grounded in the experience of one family. Bravo!erience of one family. Bravo!	2004-02-09
792703:US	49355567	R2ZBJVUX5K8L1F	0609810227	628173460	The Thistle and the Rose: The Tudor Princesses	Books	5	67	68	N	N	THE THISTLE OF SCOTLAND AND THE ROSE OF ENGLAND...	Jean Plaidy, also known as Victoria Holt to her legion of devoted fans, is a gifted and prolific writer of historical fiction. A masterful storyteller, Ms. Plaidy is known for seamlessly interweaving historical facts into a rich tapestry of fiction that is often spellbinding. Here, she writes about the beautiful Margaret Tudor, a princess of England, daughter of the parsimonious King Henry VII, and sister to the Tudor despot who would reign as King  Henry VIII.<br />At the tender age of twelve, Princess Margaret was betrothed to the handsome and chivalrous King James IV of Scotland, who was sixteen years her senior. Her betrothal arose out of the Treaty of Perpetual Peace and was designed to bring about an end to the age old border wars between Scotland and England. Initially, Margaret viewed her forthcoming marriage with trepidation, only to find herself falling in love with her betrothed upon their first meeting. Theirs would be a love match, despite his philandering and siring of children outside their marriage. Unfortunately, their marriage did not have the intended effect upon the peace between Scotland and England, as King James IV courted the friendship of France, England's avowed enemy.<br />This put Margaret, now Queen of Scotland, in an awkward position. Her brother Henry VIII, now King of England, looked to Margaret to bring her husband back into the fold, but James IV had his own ideas and paid little heed to the advice of his wife. Consequently, Scotland waged war on England, only to be defeated at the battle of Flodden Field, by the army of King Henry VIII. There, King James IV was slain, and Margaret found herself widowed at a young age. Her baby son was crowned King James V of Scotland, and she was named Regent in accordance with her late husband's wishes.<br />Margaret, imbued with the same Tudor passion and tempestuousness as her brother, remained in Scotland, where she engaged in a lifelong battle for power  and for control over her beloved young son. Ousted as Regent after a scandalous second marriage to the very handsome Archibald Douglas, head of the powerful  Douglas clan and Earl of Angus, she eventually found herself battling not only her brother, but her craven second husband, as well. She  ultimately sought to divorce him, much to the horror of her brother, King Henry VIII, who, unbeknownst to Margaret, was secretly mulling over the same marital resolution for himself.<br />Margaret would later fall in love with one of her son's courtiers, his Master Carver, Henry Stuart. This infatuation would ultimately lead to yet a third marriage for Margaret. Again, this marriage was, as were all her marriages, an initially happy one, but would, ultimately, end in infidelity by her husband, causing Margaret to despair of ever finding true love and happiness.<br /><br />Throughout her life, Margaret's behavior would scandalize many, including her brother, King Henry VIII who, given his own behavior, should have been more tolerant, but it was definitely a man's world in those days. Still, notwithstanding her many disappointments, it would ultimately be Margaret's descendants who would, for a time, rule a united Scotland and England.<br /><br />This book is a tribute to a woman who has been largely eclipsed by her brother, King Henry VIII, and her granddaughter, Mary, Queen of Scots. In the hands of an acclaimed writer of historical fiction, such as Jean Plaidy, her story comes vividly to life.  Filled with larger than life historical personages and well known historical events, this  book cannot help but capture the imagination of the reader. Those who like well-written historical fiction will especially enjoy it, as will those who simply enjoy a tale well told.son. Ousted as Regent after a scandalous second marriage to the very handsome Archibald Douglas, head of the powerful  Douglas clan and Earl of Angus, she eventually found herself battling not only her brother, but her craven second husband, as well. She  ultimately sought to divorce him, much to the horror of her brother, King Henry VIII, who, unbeknownst to Margaret, was secretly mulling over the same marital resolution for himself.<br />Margaret would later fall in love with one of her son's courtiers, his Master Carver, Henry Stuart. This infatuation would ultimately lead to yet a third marriage for Margaret. Again, this marriage was, as were all her marriages, an initially happy one, but would, ultimately, end in infidelity by her husband, causing Margaret to despair of ever finding true love and happiness.<br /><br />Throughout her life, Margaret's behavior would scandalize many, including her brother, King Henry VIII who, given his own behavior, should have been more tolerant, but it was definitely a man's world in those days. Still, notwithstanding her many disappointments, it would ultimately be Margaret's descendants who would, for a time, rule a united Scotland and England.<br /><br />This book is a tribute to a woman who has been largely eclipsed by her brother, King Henry VIII, and her granddaughter, Mary, Queen of Scots. In the hands of an acclaimed writer of historical fiction, such as Jean Plaidy, her story comes vividly to life.  Filled with larger than life historical personages and well known historical events, this  book cannot help but capture the imagination of the reader. Those who like well-written historical fiction will especially enjoy it, as will those who simply enjoy a tale well told.	2004-02-09
793048:US	49355567	R2MH7S63ZJHKKE	068817776X	943894254	The Nazi Officer's Wife: How One Jewish Woman Survived the Holocaust	Books	4	13	15	N	N	A STORY OF SURVIVAL DESPITE THE NAZIS...	This is an interesting work of non-fiction that, at times, reads as if it were a novel. Based upon the recollection of a secular Austrian Jew, a young woman named Edith Hahn, the book tells the reader her intriguing story. During the Holocaust,  she married  a member of the Nazi party whom she had told she was Jewish. He married her and kept her secret. In the waning days of the war, her husband was drafted into the German army and ended up a prisoner of war for a time. Upon his return, he found  a crumbling German infra-structure, the Nazis out of favor, and his Jewish wife asserting herself as she really was, a well-educated, independent woman.<br />This is essentially a book about Ms. Hahn's life just before, during, and just after World War II. It tells the reader about her life in Austria before the Nazis took over. She was a well-educated woman studying to be a lawyer, when the Gestapo put an end to her professional aspirations.  She was sent to work at a labor camp and while doing so,  her mother was deported to a concentration camp, before they could be re-united. Seeing that the writing was on the wall for the Jews of Austria, she went underground with the help of a Christian friend and fled to Germany. It was while she lived an underground life in Germany under an assumed name, that she met Werner Vetter, a Nazi party member who fell in love with her. Notwithstanding her confession that she was Jewish, he married her and never betrayed her.<br />She tells a tale of sublimation of self in order to survive the rigors of the policies of Nazi Germany that were imposed upon Austria, her country and a land where anti-Semitism was rife. She tells a tale of sublimation of self in order to survive her marriage to a person whose views were so opposite her own. Her fears of discovery were so acute that during childbirth, she refused to take any pain medication or anesthesia for fear of betraying her own self while under sedation. Her only child, a daughter, Angelika, is believed to be the only child born of a Jewish mother in a Reich hospital in 1944. Though Edith loved her husband, she never felt free to be herself until the war was over. Hers is a story of  immobilizing fear and survival.<br />This is an intriguing perspective on the Holocaust from the voice of one who who was in a singular position during the latter half of the war, as she was a Jew in Germany.is believed to be the only child born of a Jewish mother in a Reich hospital in 1944. Though Edith loved her husband, she never felt free to be herself until the war was over. Hers is a story of  immobilizing fear and survival.<br />This is an intriguing perspective on the Holocaust from the voice of one who who was in a singular position during the latter half of the war, as she was a Jew in Germany.	2004-02-09
811296:US	49355567	R37SUMUVJ1XCHB	0312422202	864535953	Dress Codes: Of Three Girlhoods---My Mother's, My Father's, and Mine	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	TO THINE OWN SELF BE TRUE...	This is a well-written memoir by a remarkable young woman who, at the age of fifteen, was made aware of the fact that her father was suffering from gender dysphoria. It seemed that her father enjoyed cross dressing and had decided that he would prefer to do so all the time. He had come to a realization that he was actually a transsexual and not just a transvestite.<br />This wryly funny memoir, which is not just the author's memoir but that of her mother, as well,  and, to some extent, that of her father, though, as in life, his essence remains the most elusive.  The author is clearly an intelligent, perceptive young woman, and she lays bare her parents' relationship, to the extent that she can, with their blessing, as well as her recollection of growing up in a household where the father was evidently deeply troubled by his gender issues. She outlines the impact that this had on him and, consequently, on her and her mother, as well as on the family dynamics. She fully discusses the changes that his coming out about his gender issues would confer upon them all, both good and bad.<br />Informative as well as entertaining, the author manages to infuse a great deal of perceptiveness in analyzing the familial relationships. She supported her father's decision, though some of the issues that she had with him were not as a direct result of his gender dysphoria, but rather with the way he treated both her and her mother as she was growing up. Still, as someone who grew up in a seemingly traditional nuclear family, only to find herself in a non-traditional one, the author has remained remarkable sanguine about the entire experience.<br />This is a wonderful book that gives a birds-eye view of the experience of living with someone who has gender dysphoria. It is also gives the reader a peek into a family that was simply trying to cope the best way that they knew how, given the little that they knew about what was really at the core of many of the troubling dynamics within the household.  It is a book that grounds what some may perceive as an unreal situation in the context of a vital family that was simply struggling to survive a complicated situation into which they were thrust by forces beyond their control. It is a portrait of a family in pain that survives and comes to terms with its permutation.e household.  It is a book that grounds what some may perceive as an unreal situation in the context of a vital family that was simply struggling to survive a complicated situation into which they were thrust by forces beyond their control. It is a portrait of a family in pain that survives and comes to terms with its permutation.	2004-01-26
812599:US	49355567	RSSG298W2D977	0060830476	882375795	Giants in the Earth: A Saga of the Prairie	Books	5	46	56	N	N	THEY CAME...THEY SAW...THEY CONQUERED...	This is the first in a trilogy of books about the Norwegian settlement of the Dakota Territory. The second book is titled, \\" Peder Victorious\\", and the third and last book is titled, \\"Their Fathers' God.\\" The author,  a Norwegian who emigrated to the United States in 1896  and eventually became a professor at St. Olaf's College, wrote it in Norwegian, but it is every bit as American as apple pie.<br />This is a beautifully written, lyrical book about the experiences of the early Norwegians who settled in the vast prairie of the Dakota Territory during the latter half of the nineteenth century. It speaks of their isolation and desolation, as well as of the hardships inherent in pioneering so far West with so little resources at hand  with which to do so. Dependent solely upon their inner resources,  hard work, ingenuity, and whatever goods they had managed to haul with them,  these peasant, would-be-farmers from Norway would be the stuff of which this country was made. Their resilience in the face of relentless hardship, adversity, and deprivation is stunning, as is their belief in a better life.<br />The story focuses on a small group of Norwegians who traveled together from the same small fishing hamlet in Norway and formed a settlement. Pioneers, they paved the way for those who were yet to come. The author details their trials and tribulations, with the focal figure of this group being an individual by the name of Per Hansa, who arrived in the vast prairie of the  Dakota territory with his wife, Beret, and their three children. Yet, despite these central characters, all that happens revolves around the land and the elements that sustain it and drain it from season to season.<br />It is Per Hansa, however,  who, perhaps, best epitomizes the enterprising spirit of the first settlers to the Dakota Territory, while his wife, Beret, represents those whose coping mechanisms were less able to make a smooth transition to their new environs. Per Hansa, bursting with energy and enthusiasm,  is a man who thinks out of the box and refuses to let the elements get the best of him.  He is a natural leader upon whom the others rely, a symbol of the pioneering spirit that revolutionized this country and made it great.<br />Beret, on the other hand, symbolizes those who see a relentless uphill fight to try to make something out of seemingly nothing. She fails to see the beauty around her, seeing only the stillness, the isolation, and what she perceives as the interminable loneliness.  Therein lies the heart of the dichotomy in their relationship, as Per Hansa sees his cup as half full, while Beret sees hers as half empty.<br />Yet, despite Per Hansa's joy in the land, there is an underlying bittersweet moroseness that permeates the book that serves to underscore the great sacrifice that these early pioneers had to make in order for their settlement of the Great Plains of the Dakota Territory to work.  It is grounded in an understanding by the author of the Norwegian immigrant culture and experience. It is a book that is brimming with feeling and written by an author who had the soul of a poet.  Those who have read and  enjoyed  the quartet of books  written by Swedish author, Vilhelm Moberg, about the early  Swedish settlers of Minnesota, will likewise enjoy this book, as will all those who love lyrically written historical fiction. I very much  look forward to reading the remaining two books in this trilogy.y and enthusiasm,  is a man who thinks out of the box and refuses to let the elements get the best of him.  He is a natural leader upon whom the others rely, a symbol of the pioneering spirit that revolutionized this country and made it great.<br />Beret, on the other hand, symbolizes those who see a relentless uphill fight to try to make something out of seemingly nothing. She fails to see the beauty around her, seeing only the stillness, the isolation, and what she perceives as the interminable loneliness.  Therein lies the heart of the dichotomy in their relationship, as Per Hansa sees his cup as half full, while Beret sees hers as half empty.<br />Yet, despite Per Hansa's joy in the land, there is an underlying bittersweet moroseness that permeates the book that serves to underscore the great sacrifice that these early pioneers had to make in order for their settlement of the Great Plains of the Dakota Territory to work.  It is grounded in an understanding by the author of the Norwegian immigrant culture and experience. It is a book that is brimming with feeling and written by an author who had the soul of a poet.  Those who have read and  enjoyed  the quartet of books  written by Swedish author, Vilhelm Moberg, about the early  Swedish settlers of Minnesota, will likewise enjoy this book, as will all those who love lyrically written historical fiction. I very much  look forward to reading the remaining two books in this trilogy.	2004-01-25
813501:US	49355567	R3O1PHE8JS8ETA	3464106586	412606618	The Good Earth	Books	5	3	3	N	N	ASHES TO ASHES...DUST TO DUST...	This 1932 Pulitzer Prize winning novel is still a standout today. Deceptive in its simplicity, it is a story built around a flawed human being and a teetering socio-economic system, as well as one that is layered  with profound themes. The cadence of the author's  writing is also of note, as it rhythmically lends itself to the telling of the story, giving it a very distinct voice. No doubt the author's writing style was influenced by her own immersion in Chinese culture, as she grew up and lived in China, the  daughter of missionaries.<br />This is the story of the cyclical nature of life, of the passions and desires that motivate a human being, of good and evil, and of the desire to survive and thrive against great odds. It begins with the story of an illiterate, poor, peasant farmer,  Wang Lung, who ventures from the rural countryside  and goes to town to the great house of Hwang to obtain a bride from those among the rank of slave. There, he is given the slave O-lan as his bride.<br />Selfless, hardworking, and a bearer of sons, the plain-faced O-lan supports Wang Lung's veneration of the land and his desire to acquire more land. She stays with him through thick and thin, through famine and very lean times, working alongside him on the land, making great sacrifices,  and raising his children. As a family, they weather the tumultuousness of pre-revolutionary China in the 1920s, only to find themselves the recipient of  riches beyond their dreams. At the first opportunity, they buy land from the great house of Hwang, whose expenses appear to be exceeding their income.<br />With the passing of time, Wang Lung buys more and more land from the house of Hwang, until he owns it all,  as his veneration of the land is always paramount. With O-lan at this side, his family continues to prosper. His life becomes more complicated, however, the richer he gets. Wang Lung  then commits a life-changing act that pierces O-lan's heart in the most profoundly heartbreaking way.<br />As the years pass, his sons become educated and literate, and the family continues to prosper. With the great house of Hwang on the skids, an opportunity to buy their house, the very same house from where he had fetched O-lan many years ago, becomes available. Pressed upon to buy that house by his sons, who do not share Wang Lung's veneration for the land and rural life, he buys the house. The country mice now have become the city mice.<br />This is a potent story, brimming with irony, yet simply told against a framework of mounting social change. It is a story that  stands as a parable in many ways and is one that certainly should be read. It illustrates the timeless dichotomy between the young and the old, the old and the new, and the rich and the poor. It is no wonder that this beautifully written book won a Pulitzer Prize and is considered a classic masterpiece. Bravo!As the years pass, his sons become educated and literate, and the family continues to prosper. With the great house of Hwang on the skids, an opportunity to buy their house, the very same house from where he had fetched O-lan many years ago, becomes available. Pressed upon to buy that house by his sons, who do not share Wang Lung's veneration for the land and rural life, he buys the house. The country mice now have become the city mice.<br />This is a potent story, brimming with irony, yet simply told against a framework of mounting social change. It is a story that  stands as a parable in many ways and is one that certainly should be read. It illustrates the timeless dichotomy between the young and the old, the old and the new, and the rich and the poor. It is no wonder that this beautifully written book won a Pulitzer Prize and is considered a classic masterpiece. Bravo!	2004-01-24
814538:US	49355567	R10M0IF03S644W	0060536969	245555180	Prey	Books	4	0	0	N	N	THEY'RE HERE...	This is another fast-paced, bio-tech thriller by this author. Expertly weaving his narrative, the author grips the reader with his tale of nanotechnology gone wrong. While the book is wholly plot driven, with little attention paid to any character development.  this lack does not unduly detract from the enjoyment of the book, as the plot is so gripping.<br />The plot revolves around stay at home dad, Jack Forman, who was a  whistle-blower about some high-tech espionage going on in the company  for which he worked. Unfortunately, he revealed what he had discovered it to the wrong person  and, consequently, was fired for his pains. While at home, he notices that his wife, who is a mover and a shaker for a bio-tech firm, has been acting a little odd and suspects her of an illicit affair.<br />When her company wants to hire him to check out some programming problems at  their Nevada facility, Jack jumps at the opportunity. He then discovers that the firm has engaged in an experiment that has gone out of control. A swarm of nanoparticles, designed as micro-robots and programmed to act as one mind, has escaped from the environs of the firm's desert laboratory. Programmed to be predatory, the swarm is deadly and evolving into something even more sinister with every passing moment.<br />Moreover, he notices that it isn't only his wife that is acting a little odd. Others at the facility with the swarm problem are also acting a little strange. All is definitely not what it seems. The only question is whether Jack, with the help of the scientists at the facility, can take control of the swarm before the swarm overwhelms and controls them.<br />This book keeps the reader riveted, despite the fairly predictable, formulaic plot. As do many of the author's other books, it also presents some serious ethical and moral issues for consideration by the reader, and the author himself gives a fairly detailed, cautionary foreword on the dangers of nanotechnology.<br />I unwittingly bought the abridged, rather than the unabridged, audio book version for a road trip but was not disappointed.  Narrated by Broadway and silver screen veteran Robert Sean Leonard, he keeps the story flowing in a nice, easy way, leaving the listener wanting to hear more. Quite frankly, when I arrived at my destination, I could barely tear myself away from the car, so engrossed was I by the story and its telling.  It is a highly enjoyable, plot driven book.the abridged, rather than the unabridged, audio book version for a road trip but was not disappointed.  Narrated by Broadway and silver screen veteran Robert Sean Leonard, he keeps the story flowing in a nice, easy way, leaving the listener wanting to hear more. Quite frankly, when I arrived at my destination, I could barely tear myself away from the car, so engrossed was I by the story and its telling.  It is a highly enjoyable, plot driven book.	2004-01-23
815109:US	49355567	RKMQ8STOAKYZB	088411144X	843636085	Secret House of Death	Books	4	4	4	N	N	THINGS ARE NOT ALWAYS WHAT THEY SEEM...	Ruth Rendell is a brilliant writer of psychological suspense and mysteries. She is noted for her quirky characters and unlikely killers, many of whom seem quite ordinary. What they all seem to have is a dark side that manifests itself in the deadliest ways.  This book is no exception.<br />Here, an attractive young woman, Louise North, who lives in a suburban housing complex, is incessantly gossiped about by her neighbors. It seems that that when her handsome husband, Bob, leaves for work, Louise gets a male visitor whom all the neighbors think is her lover. Her neighbors marvel at the brazenness of this hussy living in their well-ordered midst. Imagine the boldness of Louise in having her lover park his car right in front of her home. What if her husband were to come home unexpectedly?<br />When her next door neighbor, divorcee Susan Townsend, is inveigled by a distraught Louise to come over for coffee, Susan only reluctantly agrees, not wanting to be drawn into any sordid disclosures. After all, she does not engage in any of the vile gossip surrounding Louise and her romantic encounters with the mysterious gentleman caller. Still, the next day she goes to Louise's home at the appointed hour, only to find Louise and her ostensible lover locked in a deadly embrace.<br />Naturally, under the circumstances, Susan and Bob find themselves drawing towards each other.  Bob seeks out Susan, becoming a regular visitor, and before she knows it, Susan finds that she is more than happy to comfort Bob, and a relationship of sorts develops. Susan, however, gets a feeling as if she were a moth being drawn towards a flame. Something is askew. There is something wrong with the entire picture! She just doesn't know what. Slowly the pieces come together with the help of a stranger named David Chadwick. It may just be that things were not at all what they seemed in that cloistered suburban household inhabited by the Norths.<br />This is an intriguing little mystery, though the characters are not as quirky or edgy as in many of the author's other books. Moreover, the mystery is not that much of a surprise, as the clues are all there for the discerning reader to piece together. Still, there are enough twists and turns to make for an entertaining, fast paced read. It is a book that will be enjoyed by all those who love a well-written mystery.ers are not as quirky or edgy as in many of the author's other books. Moreover, the mystery is not that much of a surprise, as the clues are all there for the discerning reader to piece together. Still, there are enough twists and turns to make for an entertaining, fast paced read. It is a book that will be enjoyed by all those who love a well-written mystery.	2004-01-23
815265:US	49355567	R1G7V18YIF9IZF	0786867647	913320116	Lucky Man: A Memoir	Books	5	4	7	N	Y	A FINE MAN...	This is a wonderful memoir by a beloved actor. I have always been a fan of Michael J. Fox, as he always seemed so likable in every role in which he has been cast. His book is no different. His wit, charm, and self-deprecating humor resonate throughout this intensely personal memoir of his life. He is not only likable, he is a fine man who has come to terms with the hand with which he has been dealt and is making the most of it.<br /><br />The book traces his beginnings as a Canadian army brat, his father having been in the military. He tells the reader about growing up in Canada, part of a closely knit, working class family. He credits his short stature with helping him get his start in the theatre and film business in Canada, as it enabled him to play children's roles. From there, he did a segue into the United States, where he eventually won the coveted role of Alex P. Keaton in the hit situation comedy \\"Family Ties\\".  From then on, he was on the path to fame and fortune.<br /><br />Alas, the path to fame and fortune is not always an easy one. His take on his celebrity status is astute, and he describes the impact that it has had on his life, both good and bad. He details some mistakes that he has made while growing up,  such as the drinking binges that were out of control and threatened to derail his life. He also discusses some of the good decisions he has made, such as his marriage to the intelligent and lovely Tracy Pollan. He also details where these mistakes and choices have taken him and how they have shaped him into the man he is today.<br /><br />The specter of Young Onset Parkinson's Disease has overshadowed his life since 1990, when he first noticed the physical manifestations of the disease by an uncontrollable trembling and twitching of his left pinkie. At the time, he was still in his twenties. He would go on to live in a state of denial for some time. When denial was no longer an option, he spent years hiding his disease from everyone except for his immediate family. When he finally did the television series Spin City, he let the people with whom he worked closely in on his secret.,  until the day came when it could be kept secret no more.<br /><br />In 1998, Michael J. Fox decided to go public with his diagnosis and prognosis and share with the general public his experiences with Young Onset Parkinson's Disease.  He has been liberated by doing so. The book details how he has come to terms with the disease and how it has impacted on his life.  He describes the disease in detail, as well his involvement in Parkinson's advocacy. He has certainly been an ardent spokesperson, directing his efforts to research fundraising in an attempt to find a cure for this disease. His celebrity status has served to put the spotlight on this debilitating and, eventually, fatal disease.<br /><br />This is a very well-written, compelling memoir by a very fine man, intelligent and introspective. He is a family man who has a deep appreciation for his beloved and loyal wife, who has stood by her man through thick and thin. He is also a devoted father to his two children. Though he has met with much material success in life, Michael J, Fox has managed to remain grounded and true to himself. This no-holds-barred book reminds me as to why I have always liked Michael J. Fox. He is, indeed, a lucky man.immediate family. When he finally did the television series Spin City, he let the people with whom he worked closely in on his secret.,  until the day came when it could be kept secret no more.<br /><br />In 1998, Michael J. Fox decided to go public with his diagnosis and prognosis and share with the general public his experiences with Young Onset Parkinson's Disease.  He has been liberated by doing so. The book details how he has come to terms with the disease and how it has impacted on his life.  He describes the disease in detail, as well his involvement in Parkinson's advocacy. He has certainly been an ardent spokesperson, directing his efforts to research fundraising in an attempt to find a cure for this disease. His celebrity status has served to put the spotlight on this debilitating and, eventually, fatal disease.<br /><br />This is a very well-written, compelling memoir by a very fine man, intelligent and introspective. He is a family man who has a deep appreciation for his beloved and loyal wife, who has stood by her man through thick and thin. He is also a devoted father to his two children. Though he has met with much material success in life, Michael J, Fox has managed to remain grounded and true to himself. This no-holds-barred book reminds me as to why I have always liked Michael J. Fox. He is, indeed, a lucky man.	2004-01-23
819790:US	49355567	RWLY331U7ZXBY	0449228908	617955135	To See a Fine Lady	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	FROM DAIRY MAID TO LADY...	This is a period piece by beloved novelist Norah Lofts, who is known for her historical fiction. A master storyteller, Ms Lofts has crafted an intriguing story about Araminta Glover, an early nineteenth century English dairy maid who refused to think with her heart, rather than with her head.<br />Araminta's heart told her that she was in love with Jan, the local laborer, a handsome man whose very touch made her pulse pound. Her head, however, told her that to marry Jan would consign her to a life similar to the one led by her mother. She envisioned a life of poverty, hardship, and baby making that would soon follow her initial rapture.<br />Determined to make something of herself, Araminta left her comfortable sinecure and Jan. She, instead,  went to work at another dairy farm, hoping to put as much distance between herself and Jan as was possible. She was determined to fare better than her mother had fared. Araminta wanted a better life for herself and was determined not to let the weakness of the flesh get in her way of reaching her goals.<br />So, when the new dairy farm offered her wages about which she had only dreamt, she lost no time in accepting the post. Little did she know that the new post came with its own baggage, as the dairy farm was run by a Mrs. Stancy, a woman who had a streak of the devil in her. She tyrannically reigned over a household where she was feared by all. Still, when Araminta caught the eye of a handsome, young, egalitarian member of the gentry, her life would never be the same.<br /><br />Steeped in period detail and class conflicts, Norah Lofts offers a  well-written tale about a young, independent  woman who discovered that she had a promising future, after having endured  much heartache and hardship. It is a book that will keep the reader turning the pages and will appeal to those readers who enjoy light historical fiction or historical romances.	2004-01-19
822386:US	49355567	RE2GWM29493UK	0606287906	95144783	Cradle and All	Books	1	1	2	N	N	A STINKER BY ANY OTHER NAME...	This is a bad book with a fairly simple story line. There are two young girls, both pregnant and both claiming to be virgins. One, Kathleen, rich and privileged, lives in the United States. The other, Colleen, lives in a small country village in Ireland. According to a secret missive from Our Lady of Fatima, one virgin will give birth to Satan's child, the Anti-Christ, while the other will give birth to the child of God, a new Messiah.<br />Meanwhile, all over the world apocalyptic manifestations are sprouting up. Pestilence, drought, famine, and other evil portents seem to dominate the global landscape. Something strange is going on, and it appears as if the forces of good and evil are gathering about, girding themselves for one final battle.<br />Father Rosetti, an emissary from the Vatican, has been entrusted with a secret mission by the Pope relative to these two young virgins, and it is one that will sorely try his faith. Meanwhile, former nun turned private investigator, Anne Fitzgerald, has been retained by the Archdiocese of Boston to look into the phenomena of a possible immaculate conception with regards to these two young women who inhabit disparate worlds. Anne must not only confront the unknown in order to assist these two young women; she must also confront her own powerful emotions and a destiny she could not have imagined.<br />The book is riddled with ridiculous cliches from the horror genre and lacks any real tension. First released in 1980 under the title \\"Virgin\\",  this book has been updated by the author to make it appear as if it were a more contemporary work. It has now resurfaced under the title \\"Cradle and All\\" in order to capitalize on the author's success with his Alex Cross series of thrillers. Unfortunately, it is not cut from the same bolt of cloth and lacks the quality of both writing and plot that earmarks his Alex Cross novels.	2004-01-17
822465:US	49355567	R3H37OA09LOZZC	9999984649	415377348	One Door Away from Heaven	Books	3	1	1	N	N	FROM HERE TO ETERNITY...	I enjoyed this book, but while it is a mildly enjoyable read, it is not one of the author's best. Those who read and enjoyed the author's previous book, \\"From the Corner Of His Eye\\", as I did, however, will, undoubtedly, enjoy this one, though it is not as good.<br />Here, this genre bending book, written with wry humor, has a series of subplots and colorful characters with improbable names that propel the story forward. Twenty-eight year old Michelina Birdsong is a young and beautiful woman with a troubled past. Living in a trailer park with her eccentric aunt, Geneva, she lacks focus and is overly fond of lemon flavored vodka. It is as if she has lost the will to live.<br />When she gets new neighbors in the mobile home next door, one of whom is the precocious and physically deformed nine year, Leilani Klonk, her heart is touched most unexpectedly by the pathos of her young life. As Leilani is living with a drug crazed mother and step-father, a sociopathic \\"doctor\\" who may be a serial killer, Mickey finds herself wanting to make Leilani's life better and, in doing so, redeeming her own. When Leilani and her family precipitously abandon their mobile home one night, Michelina, fearing the worst for Leilani, springs into action and finds herself in hot pursuit of this family, hoping to avert a tragedy.<br />Meanwhile, a young motherless boy, who calls himself Curtis, and his dog, a Labrador with whom he has a most unique relationship, are racing away from their own potential Armageddon. This boy, too, is precocious and quite gifted but seems to lack a true understanding of the ways and customs of those whom he meets. He is just a beat off. Still, while there is something odd about him, it is clear that, though he seems to have unusual gifts, he has a pure spirit and is a good boy running from a great evil. His pursuers, seemingly invincible and other worldly, will stop at nothing to get a hold of Curtis and keep him from his mission. The journey that Curtis makes is quite astonishing.<br />At some point the paths of these main characters improbably cross and all is made somewhat, though not totally, clear. The book, which is an imaginative blend of suspense, science fiction, and bioethical philosophy, has somewhat religious or quasi-spiritual overtones, as it boils down to the quintessential battle between good and evil. In this book, Koontz continues on the path he forged with his previous book, \\"From the Corner Of His Eye\\". To where that path will ultimately lead, however, remains to be seen.quite astonishing.<br />At some point the paths of these main characters improbably cross and all is made somewhat, though not totally, clear. The book, which is an imaginative blend of suspense, science fiction, and bioethical philosophy, has somewhat religious or quasi-spiritual overtones, as it boils down to the quintessential battle between good and evil. In this book, Koontz continues on the path he forged with his previous book, \\"From the Corner Of His Eye\\". To where that path will ultimately lead, however, remains to be seen.	2004-01-17
822624:US	49355567	R2Z51BPTL332HN	0749923415	521680638	Over the Edge	Books	3	2	3	N	N	AN ADVENTURE TO REMEMBER...	This is the true story of four young Americans, three men and one woman, who in August of 2000 ventured into Kyrgyzstan in order to rock climb in the Pamir-Alai mountain range. On August 11, 2000, while climbing, they would suddenly find themselves the target of sniper fire. After their descent, they would find themselves taken at gunpoint and held hostage by young Islamic fundamentalists of the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan. They would join a Kyrgyz soldier whom the militants had already taken prisoner.<br />The next six days would prove to be harrowing ones for these climbers, who would be marched through the rugged terrain of the mountains with little food and water and constant threat of execution at the hands of their heavily armed captors. They would eventually see the their fellow captive, the Kyrgyz soldier with whom they had bonded, executed. With nothing to lose, they would be forced to make a life or death decision that was to cause them much angst but would allow for an escape.<br />The author's somewhat dry chronicle of these startling pre-9/11 events, looking back in hindsight, now seem to paint a much more evil and sinister global portent. The story is multifaceted in that the author grounds what happened to these climbers in a  global context, giving the historical backdrop and political dynamics of the area.<br />The author fully lays out the media circus that enveloped the climbers upon their return to the United States. He also found himself becoming part of the story, as exclusivity and certain monetary arrangements he had made with the climbers threatened to dominate the story and cast a pall over the veracity of all.<br />The author also chronicles out the secret pact that the climbers had made over the agonizing decision one of them had reached in order to effect their escape. It was a decision that they believed had led to the death of the captor who had been entrusted with keeping them captive.<br />The media circus around what had happened to them turned decidedly ugly when it was discovered that this captor was still alive and under arrest. What he had to say would then throw the media into a further tailspin. Thanks to the power of television, however, a Dateline NBC interview with the captor at the heart of the storm of the controversy would finally put to rest some of the unsavory portions of this true life adventure.<br />What really stands out in the book is the naivete and ignorance of the climbers about the part of the world in which they were traveling. Notwithstanding the fact that none of them seemed to be particularly bright, they had done very little in terms of research into the area before traveling there, nor had they heeded State Department advisories about the area. The climbers, in large part, remain somewhat of an enigma and, as such, the reader finds oneself caring very little about them.<br />This news saga originally appeared as a gripping article in \\"Outside\\" magazine. I had the good fortune to have read it and was transfixed by what had happened. I do not recall who wrote the article, though it was most likely Greg Child. In writing this book, however, he seems to have sucked the life out of the story. While still worth reading, it is an adventure story utterly devoid of passion. The author has managed to suck the life out of what should have been an adventure to remember.to them turned decidedly ugly when it was discovered that this captor was still alive and under arrest. What he had to say would then throw the media into a further tailspin. Thanks to the power of television, however, a Dateline NBC interview with the captor at the heart of the storm of the controversy would finally put to rest some of the unsavory portions of this true life adventure.<br />What really stands out in the book is the naivete and ignorance of the climbers about the part of the world in which they were traveling. Notwithstanding the fact that none of them seemed to be particularly bright, they had done very little in terms of research into the area before traveling there, nor had they heeded State Department advisories about the area. The climbers, in large part, remain somewhat of an enigma and, as such, the reader finds oneself caring very little about them.<br />This news saga originally appeared as a gripping article in \\"Outside\\" magazine. I had the good fortune to have read it and was transfixed by what had happened. I do not recall who wrote the article, though it was most likely Greg Child. In writing this book, however, he seems to have sucked the life out of the story. While still worth reading, it is an adventure story utterly devoid of passion. The author has managed to suck the life out of what should have been an adventure to remember.	2004-01-17
822958:US	49355567	RTF29C1P14GBJ	0141182652	651296590	Modern Classics Cold Comfort Farm (Penguin Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	WICKEDLY FUNNY PARODY...	First published in 1932, this novel is a hysterically funny, tongue-in-cheek parody of the heavy handed, gloomy novels of some early twentieth century English writers who had previously been so popular. Tremendously successful when first published, \\"Cold Comfort Farm\\" caused quite a stir in its time.<br />The novel starts out innocuously enough, when well-educated Flora Poste finds herself orphaned at the age of twenty. Discovering that her father was not the wealthy man she believed him to be, she is resigned to the fate of having to live on a hundred pounds a year. Opting to live with relatives, rather than earn her bread, she seeks out a most unlikely set of relations, the odd Starkadder family who live in Howling, Sussex.<br />Therein begins what is certainly one of the funniest novels ever written. When Flora arrives in Howling, she meets her odd relatives, who live in neglected, ramshackle \\"Cold Comfort Farm\\", where they still wash the dishes with twigs, and have cows named Graceless, Pointless, Feckless, and Aimless. Headed by a seventy-nine year old matriarch, Flora's aunt, Ada Doom Starkadder, who has not been right in the head since she \\"saw something nasty happen in the woodshed\\" nearly seventy years ago, they are a motley and strange crew indeed. Confronted with their dismal and gloomy existence, Flora sets about trying to put things to right.<br />Peppered with eccentric, memorable characters, this book will take the reader on a journey not easily forgotten. It is one that is sure to make the reader revisit this novel yet again, like an old friend who is missed too soon.	2004-01-17
823270:US	49355567	R2QJKY5PEL0HIS	8401463556	320033370	El Lago de Las Tinieblas (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	ALL IS NOT WHAT IT SEEMS...	Ruth Rendell is a fabulous British author who has churned out mystery after mystery filled with dark, demented twists. This is another tautly plotted, well crafted mystery with characters that, though seemingly normal, are just a tad off the beaten path. This Spanish translation allows Spanish speakers to enjoy this wonderful author.<br />This book features Martin Urban, a staid and somewhat stuffy young man who would have felt at home in Victorian England. Martin wins a very large sum of money in a football pool with a little help from Tim Sage, an old friend of his. Altruistic and given to some rather god-like pronouncements, Martin wishes to give the money away to the deserving poor, in order to enable them to buy a home. Poor Martin, there are none so blind, as those who will not see.<br />Beset by subliminal homo-erotic thoughts regarding Tim Sage, he meets a mysterious young woman named Francesca, who is as demure and submissive as a Victorian maiden and captures his heart. Unfortunately,  she is bound to another. All, however, is not as Martin thinks that it is.<br />Enter Finn, the twisted son of Lena, former cleaning lady to Martin's mother. When Finn's path crosses that of Martin's, during one of Martin's fumbling attempts to give some of his winnings away, a very clever dialogue ensues between these two with some unexpected, deadly results.<br />Fans of Ms. Rendell will not be disappointed by this book. It is filled with the slightly off-beat characters for which she is known, some of whom harbor dark twisted thoughts, while others are entirely socio-pathic. Well-written in spare, clear prose and filled with enough twists and turns to satisfy the most discerning of readers, this is another gem in Ms. Rendell's treasure trove of mysteries.	2004-01-17
843896:US	49355567	RQ8K36O7C9DYV	0873513223	54437556	The Last Letter Home: The Emigrant Novels: Book IV	Books	5	30	30	N	Y	NOW AMERICANS...	This is the last volume in a quartet of books by one of Sweden's greatest authors. Translated from Swedish into English, this work of historical fiction was originally published in 1961. Aptly titled, &quot;Last Letter Home&quot;, it is the final epic in a four part opus, the first three of which are &quot;The Emigrants&quot;,  &quot;Unto a Good Land&quot;, and &quot;The Settlers&quot;. One should read them in the order in which they were written for maximum reading pleasure, even though each book can stand on its own.<br />In the first volume, &quot;The Emigrants&quot;, the author details the emigration of a Swedish family  to the New World, grounding it in the reasons for the exodus of so many  Swedes from their mother country in the middle of the 19th century. The focus of the first book in this four part opus is on the family, relatives, and friends of  Karl Oscar Nilsson, a peasant farmer who unceasingly worked his farm, only to find that, no matter what he did, he could not progress and would continue to live on the cusp of total poverty. The focus of the first book is on their life in Sweden.  Gathering up  family and friends of the family, the Nilssons decide to take the monumental step of making a fresh start by emigrating to the new world, specifically the United States of America.<br />The second volume, &quot;Unto a Good Land&quot;,  focuses on the arrival of the Nilsson family and friends in the United States of America. It details their journey from New York, a journey that was to take them across the Midwest by rail, steamer, and foot, to arrive in the wilds of what would one day be the State of Minnesota. It is in this wilderness that the Nilsson family and friends would homestead and struggle to make a new home. The author regales the reader with the travails this hardy group of settlers would encounter in their efforts to create by the sweat of their brow a new home in the wilderness. The early struggles of the Nilsson family to succeed in what was an unknown frontier is engagingly chronicled.<br />In &quot;The Settlers&quot;, the author continues the story of the Nilsson family and friends. It is the story of a family who struggled to prevail in  Minnesota, an alien land of harsh, inhospitable winters and scorching summers. The book continues to chronicle their lives and their adaptation to the adopted country that they would forever call home. It tells the story of the divided Nilsson brothers, each of whom would  forge a path alien to the other. The author hones in on the fact that the early settlers were subject to being taken advantage of by the unscrupulous. He highlights the mass migration of disaffected Swedes to Minnesota and details their contribution to the prosperity of that part of the country. The author shows how these early Swedish settlers consolidated themselves into a thriving, bustling community, despite the obstacles and hardships that were to be their lot  in the early years of their struggle to make the new land yield to their will.<br />This last volume,  &quot;Last Letter Home&quot; is a bittersweet continuation of the story of the Nilsson family, as well as that of their friends. With the fabric of their lives now firmly woven into the fabric of their adopted country and with the birth of a  new generation, they  have earned the right to call themselves Americans. With their destiny now firmly intertwined with that of their adopted country, they face new challenges in this new country. Having conquered the wilderness and having achieved a measure of stability and comfort, they believe that the worst is over, only to find themselves thrust into a Civil War. Moreover, the blood of their friends and family would be shed, as a Sioux uprising, an angry outgrowth of broken treaties and governmental promises, wreaks havoc in Minnesota and its surrounding environs, a region mostly inhabited by Swedish settlers.  Still, the Nilssons prevail and leave their mark, not only on the pages of thesebooks but in the heart of the reader.<br />I have  enjoyed all four volumes of this well-written and vibrant epic work. The author, a master storyteller, has woven a captivating  tapestry alive with period detail and beloved characters. These are books that those who  enjoy historical fiction will love reading.books but in the heart of the reader.<br />I have  enjoyed all four volumes of this well-written and vibrant epic work. The author, a master storyteller, has woven a captivating  tapestry alive with period detail and beloved characters. These are books that those who  enjoy historical fiction will love reading.	2004-01-02
844685:US	49355567	R1PG68JRSK9OAQ	0330376292	563682613	Moon	Books	3	2	2	N	N	NOT THE AUTHOR'S BEST WORK...	Having read &quot;The Fog&quot;, an absolutely terrific book by this author, I looked forward to reading this one. I am sorry to say that this book does not even begin to compare to &quot;The Fog&quot;, a book that is superior in every way to this effort.<br />The plot is simple. A schoolteacher, Jonathan Childes, has certain psychic abilities over which he has little control. He can apparently meld his mind with that of a sadistic killer. Unfortunately for him, this killer is aware of Childes' mental intrusion and deduces who and where Childes is.<br />Some tension is created by having Childes become a suspect in a series of murders of which Childes' is aware due to his mind meld with the actual killer. His knowledge is a double edged sword. The killer then decides to bring his handiwork a little too close to home for Childes' tastes, and the plot thickens.<br />This book is mildly entertaining at best, as the tension does not really hold up.  Moreover, the ending is somewhat ridiculous and disappointing, reminiscent of a promise unfulfilled.  The author is certainly capable of better.  If one is looking for a book of unrelenting horror, then this is not the book for which one is looking. It is more of a murder mystery with supernatural overtones, and a somewhat mediocre one, at that.	2004-01-02
846066:US	49355567	R3QFCLXCVSE740	0873513215	589140066	The Settlers: The Emigrant Novels: Book III	Books	5	15	15	N	N	THE SWEDISH STATE OF MINNESOTA...	This is an epic work by its Swedish author, who is considered to be one of Sweden's greatest writers. Translated from Swedish into English,  this beautifully written  book of historical fiction was first published in 1956. It is the third  part of a four part opus, the first two of which are &quot;The Emigrants&quot; and &quot;Unto a Good Land&quot;. The last book is aptly titled &quot;Last Letter Home&quot;.<br />In the first volume, &quot;The Emigrants&quot;, the author detailed the emigration of a Swedish family  to the New World, grounding it in the reasons for the exodus of so many  Swedes from their mother country in the middle of the 19th century. The focus of the first book in this four part opus is on the family, relatives, and friends of  Karl Oscar Nilsson, a peasant farmer who unceasingly worked his farm, only to find that, no matter what he did, he could not progress and would continue to live on the cusp of total poverty. The focus of the first book is on their life in Sweden.  Gathering up  family and friends of the family, the Nilssons decide to take the monumental step of making a fresh start by emigrating to the new world, specifically the United States of America.<br />The second volume, &quot;Unto a Good Land&quot;,  focuses on the arrival of the Nilsson family and friends in the United States of America. It details their journey from New York, a journey that was to take them across the Midwest by rail, steamer, and foot, to arrive in the wilds of what would one day be the State of Minnesota. It is in this wilderness that the Nilsson family and friends would homestead and struggle to make a new home. The author regales the reader with the travails this hardy group of settlers would encounter in their efforts to create by the sweat of their brow a new home in the wilderness. The early struggles of the Nilsson family to succeed in what was an unknown frontier is engagingly chronicled.<br />In &quot;The Settlers&quot;, the author continues the story of the Nilsson family and friends. It is the story of a family who struggled to prevail in Minnesota, an alien land of harsh, inhospitable winters and scorching summers. The book continues to chronicle their lives and their adaptation to the adopted country that they would forever call home. It tells the story of the divided Nilsson brothers, each of whom would  forge a path alien to the other. The author hones in on the fact that the early settlers were subject to being taken advantage of by the unscrupulous. He highlights the mass migration of disaffected Swedes to Minnesota and details their contribution to the prosperity of that part of the country. The author shows how these early Swedish settlers consolidated themselves into a thriving, bustling community, despite the obstacles and hardships that were to be their lot  in the early years of their struggle to make the new land yield to their will.<br /> I have  enjoyed the first, second, and third volumes so much that I look forward to continuing this journey with the Nilssons by reading the last remaining  volume.  Well-written and vibrant with period detail, this is a book that those who enjoy historical fiction will appreciate.of the Nilsson family and friends. It is the story of a family who struggled to prevail in Minnesota, an alien land of harsh, inhospitable winters and scorching summers. The book continues to chronicle their lives and their adaptation to the adopted country that they would forever call home. It tells the story of the divided Nilsson brothers, each of whom would  forge a path alien to the other. The author hones in on the fact that the early settlers were subject to being taken advantage of by the unscrupulous. He highlights the mass migration of disaffected Swedes to Minnesota and details their contribution to the prosperity of that part of the country. The author shows how these early Swedish settlers consolidated themselves into a thriving, bustling community, despite the obstacles and hardships that were to be their lot  in the early years of their struggle to make the new land yield to their will.<br /> I have  enjoyed the first, second, and third volumes so much that I look forward to continuing this journey with the Nilssons by reading the last remaining  volume.  Well-written and vibrant with period detail, this is a book that those who enjoy historical fiction will appreciate.	2004-01-01
846141:US	49355567	R3B6JH23FRKKRI	0449228487	414765220	Eleanor the Queen	Books	4	19	19	N	N	A QUEEN OF LEGENDARY BEAUTY AND EXTRAORDINARY INTELLIGENCE..	This is an interesting work of historical fiction by a noted writer of historical fiction and gifted storyteller, Norah Lofts. the author capably details the life of Eleanor of Aquitaine, one of the most famous and celebrated women of the middle ages. Touted by the troubadours of her time as being a woman without compare, Eleanor of Aquitaine could certainly be held to be the first feminist.<br />Married first to the pious King of France, Louis VII,  she bore him two daughters and went with him on an unsuccessful Crusade, where she was to have a number of adventures. Stifled by the King's somewhat misogynistic advisors, she and the King would come to a parting of the way after fifteen years of marriage. No sooner was she divorced and returned to her Duchy of Aquitaine, than she met eighteen year old Henry Plantagenet, who was to become King Henry II of England. Nearly a dozen years separated them but this was to be no bar to their marriage.<br />Eleanor and Henry were to marry, and she bore him numerous sons and daughters. She lived happily with Henry for many years, until she discovered that he had a mistress, the fair Rosamonde of legend. The break in their relationship would eventually result in the estrangement of Henry from his sons and the imprisonment of Eleanor for nearly eighteen years.<br />This is an excellent work of historical fiction, filled with the political intrigues of the day, historical events and personages, and a story that has withstood the test of time. It is a book that those who like well-written historical fiction will, undoubtedly, enjoy.	2004-01-01
851453:US	49355567	R3P2DBZ51XO59I	0873513207	179857590	Unto a Good Land (The Emigrants, Book II) (Bk. 2)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	THE SWEDISH OCCUPATION OF MINNESOTA...	This is an epic work by its Swedish author. Translated from Swedish into English,  this beautifully written book of historical fiction was first published in 1954 and met with excellent reviews at the time. It is the second  part of  a four part opus, the first of which is \\"The Emigrants\\". This book, \\"Unto a Good Land\\", is followed by two additional books,  \\"The Settlers\\" and \\"Last Letter From Home\\".<br />In the first volume, \\"The Emigrants\\", the author detailed the emigration of a Swedish family  to the New World, grounding it in the reasons for the exodus of so many  Swedes from their mother country in the middle of the 19th century. The focus of the first book in this four part opus is on the family, relatives, and friends of  Karl Oscar Nilsson, a peasant farmer who unceasingly worked his farm, only to find that, no matter what he did, he could not progress and would continue to live on the cusp of total poverty. The focus of the first book is on their life in Sweden.  Gathering up his family and friends of the family, the Nilsson family decides to take the monumental step of making a fresh start by emigrating to the new world, specifically the United States of America.<br />The second volume, \\"Unto a Good Land\\",  focuses on the arrival  of the Nilsson family and friends in the United States of America. It details their journey from New York, a journey that was to take them across the Midwest by rail, steamer, and foot to arrive in the wilds of what would one day be the State of Minnesota. It is in this wilderness that the Nilsson family and friends would homestead and struggle to make a new home. The author regales the reader with the travails this hardy group of settlers would encounter in their efforts to create by the sweat of their brow a new home in the wilderness. The early struggles of the Nilsson family to succeed in what was an unknown frontier is engagingly chronicled. I have  enjoyed the first and second volumes so much that I look forward to continuing their journey with them by reading the remaining two volumes. This is a book that those who love historical fiction will greatly enjoy.ing their journey with them by reading the remaining two volumes. This is a book that those who love historical fiction will greatly enjoy.	2003-12-28
871134:US	49355567	R364C9VG56ICYN	0743458036	736542120	The Royal Physician's Visit: A Novel	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	SOMETHING IS ROTTEN IN THE STATE OF DENMARK...	Having read &#34;Lost Queen&#34; by Norah Lofts, which book was a work of historical fiction that covered much of the same story told by this author, there could not be two books more different, though both are riveting. The major difference is in the writing style. The  book by Ms. Lofts is superlative and tells  an interesting, intriguing, though somewhat superficial story about the love triangle consisting of the mad king of Denmark, Christian VII, his wife, Queen Caroline Mathilde, and the royal physician,  Johann Struensee. This author, on the other hand, rips the reader's guts out with its angst filled, staccato telling of the same story. It is a more  literary book than that of Ms. Lofts and compelling in its own way, a beautifully written work of historical fiction that will keep the reader riveted to its pages until the very end.<br />It, too, tells the story of Princess Caroline Mathilde of England, sister to King George III. At the age of fifteen she was wed to young King Christian VII, who eventually became known as the mad king  of Denmark.  Temperamental, high strung, and given to strange outbursts, his predilection for odd behavior was known early on, but despite this the two kingdoms would still see these two wed, as the unification of  England and Denmark was more important than individual happiness.<br /><br />King Christian VII was a truly pitiable figure who had survived a childhood  fueled by rank cruelty and was easy prey for the sycophants of the Danish court. He developed a peculiar aversion to his wife and, consequently, had conjugal relations with her only once, which propitiously resulted in the birth of a son nine months later.  Alone in a foreign country, whose language she was only beginning to learn, and estranged from a King surrounded by sycophants, the young queen gravitated to the one person who treated her as a person in her own right, the King's physician, Johann Struensee.<br /><br />An advocate of the philosophy of Enlightenment that was overtaking Europe, the idealistic Struensee had many ideas that were introduced as reforms in Denmark, through his influence with the King, who by now was easily led, since his madness left a void in leadership that Struensee was all to happy to fill. These reforms were to make many enemies for him,  as they upset the established feudal system  that  still existed in eighteenth century Denmark. As he gained power through his influence, resentment against him grew within those circles that had formerly been close to the King. Unaware of the growing animosity against him and lacking political canniness,  Struensee and the Queen became close intimates, bound by shared ideas and interests.<br /><br />Struensee's relationship with the Queen, who was lonely and starved for affection, eventually transgressed the bounds set by propriety.  Now lovers in fact, their relationship became grist for the rumor mill. She even gave birth to a daughter who the King acknowledged as his own but who was actually Stuensee's. As gossip and innuendo about their relationship swirled across royal circles in Europe, it ultimately became the focal point for a political coup that saw them both arrested and charged with treason. It was a relationship that was to have great personal and political ramifications for the protagonists, as well as for Denmark. What ultimately happened to each of them was tragic, governed as it was by the initial reluctance of the Danes to give up their feudal system.  Even those whom Struensee championed through his reforms, the peasant class, turned against him in the end.<br /><br />This is a richly atmospheric work of historical fiction, filled with political intrigue, historical personages and events, shadowed by darkness and a palpable sorrow apparent in each and every one of its pages. It is as if the individual psyche of each of the protagonists were driving the book, giving it texture, shadings, and glimpses into the psyche of those involved in thishigh drama. It is an angst filled, almost surreal, rendering of  lives that were to come together and leave a mark on the world, making for a story that to this day has the power to captivate the reader. Bravo!high drama. It is an angst filled, almost surreal, rendering of  lives that were to come together and leave a mark on the world, making for a story that to this day has the power to captivate the reader. Bravo!	2003-12-09
872607:US	49355567	R1253OLJONMUW7	0449200434	742497886	The Follies of the King (Plantagenet Saga)	Books	4	19	19	N	N	THE KING WHO WOULD BE QUEEN...	Jean Plaidy, noted for her historical fiction, is also known to her legion of fans across the world as Victoria Holt. Ms. Plaidy has written many enjoyable works of historical fiction, and this, her eighth book in her Plantagenet saga is no exception.<br /><br />Here, Ms. Plaidy tells the story of King Edward II who, as did his ancestor Richard the Lionhearted, preferred the company and affections of men over that of women. Unlike his ancestor,  who was married to the complaisant and submissive,  Berengaria, who did not make waves about Richard's lack of attention, Edward II had a wife that was secretly infuriated by her husband's predilection for young men.  Interestingly enough, nowhere in this work of historical fiction does the author make use of the word homosexual, though that is really the only inference a reader may draw about the romantic proclivities of Edward II.<br /><br />The book focuses heavily upon the attachment had to Piers Gaveston, a young man, son of a Gascon knight, who had grown up with Edward, and the young and handsome Hugh the Dispenser, the courtier who eventually took Gaveston's place in the king's affections after Gaveston was murdered. The book chronicles the unfortunate relationship that Edward II had with his wife, the beautiful and strong-willed Isabella, daughter to Philip, King of France. Edward II did his duty, however, while Isabella suppressed her hatred and contempt of him, and together they managed to produce an heir, a son who would one day be crowned Edward III under unusual circumstances, as well as three other children.<br /><br />Edward II, as foolish and weak as his father was wise and strong, allowed Robert the Bruce of Scotland to flourish. Scotland, which had been crushed into submission by Edward I, who had been known as the Hammer of the Scots, now became a force with which to be reckoned under the strong leadership of Robert the Bruce. Meanwhile, England, under the reign of Edward II, became weaker and vulnerable, losing its Scottish castles and strongholds one by one. At the battle of Bannockburn, Edward II would receive a stunning defeat at the hands of Robert the Bruce, losing forever that for which his father, Edward I, had fought so hard.<br /><br />Eventually, Queen Isabella, who was disgusted by her husband's proclivities and weakness, took a lover, Roger de Mortimer. Together, Isabella and Roger plotted and schemed against Edward II, who was a inept ruler whose kingdom always seemed to be on the cusp of civil war. Their schemes came to fruition when Edward III was crowned King while his father, now a prisoner of Isabella and Roger, still lived. This untenable situation would not last long, as Edward II would meet a most cruel and ignominious death while held captive at Berkeley Castle.<br /><br />The author brings to life these royal personages, political intrigues, and historical events, weaving them into a well-written tapestry of historical fiction. Set amidst the political turmoil of fourteenth century England,  peppered with names of those who would have lasting historical impact, it is an entertaining, as well as informative, treasure trove of historical facts that are melded together into a most enjoyable book.losing its Scottish castles and strongholds one by one. At the battle of Bannockburn, Edward II would receive a stunning defeat at the hands of Robert the Bruce, losing forever that for which his father, Edward I, had fought so hard.<br /><br />Eventually, Queen Isabella, who was disgusted by her husband's proclivities and weakness, took a lover, Roger de Mortimer. Together, Isabella and Roger plotted and schemed against Edward II, who was a inept ruler whose kingdom always seemed to be on the cusp of civil war. Their schemes came to fruition when Edward III was crowned King while his father, now a prisoner of Isabella and Roger, still lived. This untenable situation would not last long, as Edward II would meet a most cruel and ignominious death while held captive at Berkeley Castle.<br /><br />The author brings to life these royal personages, political intrigues, and historical events, weaving them into a well-written tapestry of historical fiction. Set amidst the political turmoil of fourteenth century England,  peppered with names of those who would have lasting historical impact, it is an entertaining, as well as informative, treasure trove of historical facts that are melded together into a most enjoyable book.	2003-12-08
872662:US	49355567	R38KGS3P8HGCBM	1565820126	782974556	The Hiding Place - Chinese Edition Traditional	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A TRUE STORY OF 20TH CENTURY SAINTS...	This is an absolutely extraordinary book. Never have I read a book in which the spiritual beauty of the author so resonated throughout the story. The purity of heart that manifests itself in this inspiring saga of a heroic, Dutch family in Nazi occupied Holland during World War II is stunningly beautiful.<br /><br />This is the true story of the Ten Boom family who, during the Nazi occupation of The Netherlands, upon seeing what was happening to their Jewish neighbors and friends, asked themselves this age old question &#34;If not us,...who; if not now,...when?&#34; They answered it, ultimately, at great cost.<br /><br />The Ten Booms were devoutly Christian and lived a simple life. The patriarch of the family ran a watch shop that had been in his family for a century. Some of the family members, the author among them, worked there; selling and repairing clocks and watches. They also lived in the house in which the shop was located.<br /><br />When the Nazis occupied their country, the reality of what it meant slowly dawned upon them, as they saw the treatment given to their fellow Dutch citizens of the Jewish faith. Moved by their plight, the author at the age of fifty, together with other members of her family, including their father who was nearly eighty, became active in the Dutch underground.<br /><br />When it became clear to the Ten Booms that Jews were being targeted for deportation and death, they had a false wall constructed in the author's bedroom, thereby creating a secret room. There, they would hide the terrified Jews who were staying with them, in the event of a Nazi raid upon their home.<br /><br />Eventually denounced by someone to the Nazis, the Ten Booms were arrested and their home raided and torn apart by the Gestapo, in their search for the Jews they believed to be hiding there. At the time of the raid, the Ten Boom home was filled to capacity with Jews in hiding. So well concealed was the hidden room that had been created by the erection of the false wall, that these poor, terrified Jews managed to escape detection.<br /><br />The Ten Boom family did not fare so well. It was upon their arrest that they learned first hand of man's inhumanity to man, and their faith was put to a test that they had never dreamt possible. It was faith, however, that sustained the author in what was to be her hour of darkest despair. To find out what happened to the Ten Booms, read this book. It is the story of an incredible family, who had the courage to put their convictions to the test.<br /><br />This book is a masterpiece. The reader is sure to be captivated by the goodness and spiritual beauty contained within its pages.e false wall, that these poor, terrified Jews managed to escape detection.<br /><br />The Ten Boom family did not fare so well. It was upon their arrest that they learned first hand of man's inhumanity to man, and their faith was put to a test that they had never dreamt possible. It was faith, however, that sustained the author in what was to be her hour of darkest despair. To find out what happened to the Ten Booms, read this book. It is the story of an incredible family, who had the courage to put their convictions to the test.<br /><br />This book is a masterpiece. The reader is sure to be captivated by the goodness and spiritual beauty contained within its pages.	2003-12-08
872701:US	49355567	R3SHUJF07XI5CJ	1572702443	59773996	The Daughter of Time (Mystery Masters Series)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	THERE IS MORE TO THIS THAN MEETS THE EYE...	This is a wonderful genre bending book...part history, part mystery. Written by Scotswoman  Elizabeth MacIntosh, who wrote under the pen name Josephine Tey, it was first published in 1951. It is tragic that the author died in 1952 and was never to know the pleasure that this book would bring to generations of readers and that the Mystery Writers of America would ultimately rank it fourth among the one hundred best mysteries ever written.<br /><br />The title of the book is derived from a historical source, as it is attributable to Sir Francis Bacon, \\"For truth is rightly named after the daughter of time, and not of authority.\\" The book itself is not a traditional mystery but rather an application of deductive reasoning to an actual historical event. The event in question is the murder of the princes in the tower, sons of King Edward IV,  allegedly by their uncle, Richard III, who eventually usurped the English throne after the death of his brother. It has been widely held that Richard III did, indeed,  murder the two young princes, his nephews, in order to secure his claim to the throne.<br /><br />The reader is introduced to Scotland Yard Inspector Alan Grant, who is hospitalized and recovering from injuries sustained in the line of duty. While convalescing, he becomes intrigued by a picture of a portrait of Richard III, a likeness with which he is unfamiliar. Grant is puzzled that someone with such a sensitive face could have been such a monster as to murder his two nephews in cold blood. So, our intrepid Inspector decides that he will reconsider the evidence upon which such a dastardly assumption has been based. With the help of an American researcher doing the necessary legwork, Grant compiles enough archival historical fact that incrementally helps him formulate a new theory as to who actually may have murdered the  princes in the tower.<br /><br />This analysis and reformulation is done as though it were being argued to a jury. Indeed, so persuasive is Inspector Grant through the application of some insightful deductive reasoning and clever dialogue that the reader comes away thinking that Grant has solved one of the most intriguing historical mysteries of all time. This is certainly an unusual book conceptually but one that succeeds brilliantly. It should appeal to those readers who enjoy having a mystery unraveled, as well as to those who harbor a  love of  English history.  Bravo!or Grant through the application of some insightful deductive reasoning and clever dialogue that the reader comes away thinking that Grant has solved one of the most intriguing historical mysteries of all time. This is certainly an unusual book conceptually but one that succeeds brilliantly. It should appeal to those readers who enjoy having a mystery unraveled, as well as to those who harbor a  love of  English history.  Bravo!	2003-12-08
872830:US	49355567	RYJSZNP14IH9T	8401013585	6937687	Rescate en el Tiempo 1999-1357	Books	5	0	0	N	N	UNA AVENTURA INTERESANTE...	This is the Spanish text edition of an absolute page turner of a book. It opens with one of the most absorbing first chapters I have ever read. An elderly man is found wandering in the desert, speaking in rhyme. There is something not quite right about him. The hospital to which he is taken discovers that the anomalies do not end with just his speech. Something is very wrong with him.<br /><br />Highly inventive and compelling, the reader is reeled in hook, line, and sinker, right from the get go. A wholly plot driven book, make no mistake about it, the story revolves around a highly secretive, technological corporation, ITC, headed up by a megalomaniacal, young genius, who is tooling around with quantum physics in a way that has never before been done. Our genius is spearheading a project that is truly cutting edge. Of course, he is not doing this for the betterment of mankind. He is doing it simply because it will ultimately result in mega bucks for him, if all goes according to plan. Alas, the best-laid plans often go awry.<br /><br />Cut to a group of dedicated historians who are involved in an archaeological dig, located along the Dordogne River in France. Their project, the ultimate restoration of a fourteenth century, feudal town, is very generously funded by ITC. Now why would a technological giant such as ITC be funding such a project?<br /><br />This is the basic premise of the book. The use of quantum physics is applied in such a way as to access the past. Here, a group of historians find themselves with the chance of a lifetime. They can actually enter fourteenth century, feudal France and experience it themselves. There is quite an adventure in store for them.<br /><br />Their reason for doing so, however, is not research. They are actually on a mission to rescue their chief historian who had ventured into fourteenth century, feudal France, using ITC's technological application of quantum physics. Due to an unfortunate set of circumstances, however, he found himself mired in the fourteenth century and unable to return to the present, as originally planned.<br /><br />What happens to these intrepid historians will captivate the reader. Well written and thoroughly researched, those who, like me, love science fiction, as well as historical fiction, will, most likely, enjoy this book. As a devotee of medieval history, I was entranced by the historical detail contained within the novel. I also found the book somewhat reminiscent of the sci-fi television series called \\"Sliders\\", in which the concept of quantum physics is utilized in order to slide into parallel universes.<br /><br />All in all, this well-written novel makes for riveting, escapist entertainment. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and found that I simply could not put it down!found himself mired in the fourteenth century and unable to return to the present, as originally planned.<br /><br />What happens to these intrepid historians will captivate the reader. Well written and thoroughly researched, those who, like me, love science fiction, as well as historical fiction, will, most likely, enjoy this book. As a devotee of medieval history, I was entranced by the historical detail contained within the novel. I also found the book somewhat reminiscent of the sci-fi television series called \\"Sliders\\", in which the concept of quantum physics is utilized in order to slide into parallel universes.<br /><br />All in all, this well-written novel makes for riveting, escapist entertainment. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and found that I simply could not put it down!	2003-12-08
873000:US	49355567	R1B3K16IV34EHH	2266091018	726501919	Nous Avons Toujours Habite Dans Le Chateau	Books	3	0	0	N	N	FAMILY TIES...	I am afraid that I am in the minority, as I found this book to be a little disappointing. Moreover, I find it hard to believe that Time magazine, at one time, had named it one of the ten best novels of the year.<br />The story revolves around a family that has sustained a major tragedy. Apparently, most of the family was murdered at supper one day via the introduction of arsenic into their food. Only three family members survive, sisters Constance and Mary Catherine Blackwood, and their elderly Uncle Julian. Constance, who always cooked for her family, was charged with their murder but acquitted at trial. The surviving three Blackwoods now live in splendid isolation in their mansion, as they are reviled by the villagers.<br />Mary Catherine, the younger sister known affectionately as Merricat, is a strange girl. Bright, imaginative, and compulsive, she has an assortment of rituals that she carries out in her daily activities, which are somewhat limited.  She rarely ventures beyond the curtilage of her stately home, except for trepidaciously entering the village to get necessary supplies. Her sister Catherine, however,  never ventures beyond the immediate perimeter of her home, though this is clearly something that she wishes to do. Uncle Julian is an invalid, living out his remaining days trying to figure out the mystery behind what had happened to his family that caused them all to be poisoned.<br />They are truly alone, except for the rare visitors who knew their family prior to the tragedy that took place. Even these few visitors are almost too much for them. Still, Constance does her best to entertain them, although Merricat clearly wishes they would not come. Their highly structured world, however, is slowly torn apart, when Charles, a cousin, comes to visit them. He inveigles and tantalizes Constance with visions of having a normal life. Needless to say, Merricat and Charles do not get along, as she perceives him to be  the enemy, seeking to disrupt her orderly, though dysfunctional, world.<br />The writing style is spare, taut, and, at times, quite compelling, as well as darkly humourous. Still, what happens to Constance and Merricat is no real surprise. What is problematic is one never really understands what makes Constance tick nor what makes Merricat do what she does. There is no resolution in the book, leaving the reader to fill in the blanks. While this a moderately enjoyable work, readers would do better to seek out Ms. Jackson's dazzling novel, &quot;The Lottery&quot;, a much better and more satisfying book.y, though dysfunctional, world.<br />The writing style is spare, taut, and, at times, quite compelling, as well as darkly humourous. Still, what happens to Constance and Merricat is no real surprise. What is problematic is one never really understands what makes Constance tick nor what makes Merricat do what she does. There is no resolution in the book, leaving the reader to fill in the blanks. While this a moderately enjoyable work, readers would do better to seek out Ms. Jackson's dazzling novel, &quot;The Lottery&quot;, a much better and more satisfying book.	2003-12-08
873180:US	49355567	R329XEROM3HQFP	2253148849	21364394	La Prisonnière (French Edition)	Books	2	5	6	N	N	GREAT STORY....SECOND RATE WRITING...POOR EDITING...	This is the French text edition of a book that on its face held a lot of promise. Any story in which a mother and her children, as well as faithful family retainers, are unjustly imprisoned in squalid conditions for twenty years for an ostensible crime committed by the familial patriarch would certainly be of interest. Wrong! This is a tepid and disappointing book, poorly written and, most certainly, poorly edited. It is so filled with contradictions and inconsistencies, as to create somewhat of a credibility gap for the reader.<br /><br />The story revolves around the Oufkir family, who were, at one time, a prominent, highly respected, and well known Moroccan family. Their story is told by Malika Oufkir, who is the eldest daughter of the late General Oufkir, who was executed in August 1972, immediately following an aborted attempt to assassinate King Hassan II of Morocco, for whom he was the Minister of Defense. General's Oufkir's treasonous action was the catalyst for the tragic turn of events that were to ungulf his family.<br /><br />After the aborted coup, the General's immediate family was placed under house arrest and four months later, along with two loyal family retainers who volunteered to share their fate, were whisked away to the first of several desert prisons that were to house them for the next fifteen years.<br /><br />As Malika tells it, hers was initially almost a fairy tale story. Brought up in luxurious surroundings, she suffered early heartbreak when, at the age of five, she was separated from her family and \\"adopted\\" by then King Muhammad V, so as to be a live in playmate for the King's daughter. This adoption is never really explained, and one has no idea what her parents' thoughts were on this issue. Malika lived in the Palace in the lap of luxury for many years. As a teenager, however, she moved back with her family, where, there too, she continued to live a very privileged life, steeped in luxury and money.<br /><br />After the Oufkirs' circumstances changed, theirs is truly a tragic story. There is little doubt that the conditions in their desert prisons were deplorable and squalid. With inadequate sanitation, insufficient food, no medical care, or educational provisions, the family was truly living a life of privation. Cutoff from the outside world, as they were, they truly were disenfranchised.<br /><br />Their escape from their last desert prison, an escape that brought their plight to the consciousness of the public, was amazing. But for their escape, there is no doubt in my mind that they would still be languishing in a desert prison today, barely alive, if not already dead. I salute their determination and ingenuity in making a desperate break for freedom.<br /><br />The problem lies in the telling of the story, which is so poorly told. Many things are left unexplained. No effort is made to ground the events that led to their family's downfall in a historical context. Whatever Malika said seems to have been what went into the final draft of this book, even if she contradicted herself a page or two later, which is the main problem with the book. There are so many inconsistencies with what Malika herself says, that the discerning reader is left to question much of what she represents.<br /><br />Malika comes across as a somewhat self-absorbed, vapid woman to whom fate dealt a harsh and unusually cruel hand. Her self absorption is most evident in that she barely acknowledges the sacrifice of the two faithful family retainers, who voluntarily shared their fate, nor does she discuss the impact that this had on them. It is also a little disconcerting that more does not come through about the perceptions the other family members had about this hellish experience. Their insight might have provided a little more balance and interest to the narrative. In the hands of a good writer and and excellent editor, this book might have withstood scrutiny and met expectations.<br /><br />Sorry, Oprah, your book club selections are usually excellent. This one fails to make the grade.ub selections are usually excellent. This one fails to make the grade.	2003-12-08
874560:US	49355567	R1JZY9WWVCIEUE	0805063897	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	3	12	20	N	N	ON THE OUTSIDE LOOKING IN...	This is a well-written, interesting, anecdotal book about a well-educated woman's sojourn among the working poor. If only the author had stopped there, the book still would have been a hit. Instead, the author chose to claim it to be representative undercover reportage. Unfortunately, she does not do this with any objectivity, as she views all that she does through liberal, rose colored glasses. Nor does she live as the truly working poor do, as her existence is isolated, cut off from all support systems. While the author received raves from the New York Times Book Review, which acclaimed the author as \\"...the premier reporter of the underside of capitalism\\",  the reader should remember that the New York Times is the bastion of East Coast liberalism, and take such praise with a grain of salt.<br />The author comes across as a somewhat vapid individual, whose  inherent biases and expectations prevent her from being able to live as a true member of the working poor or interact with them on a truly human level.  She objects to having to take drug tests in order to secure a minimum wage position, stating that the costs of such a test outweigh the benefits, without any clear understanding, other than the cost of the drug test itself,  of what the potential costs of employing substance abusers would be. She authoritatively uses statistics willy-nilly without grounding them in an appropriate context. The author does, however, establish one very important key point that would certainly tend to keep the working poor running in place, and that has to do with the cost of housing. The book leaves little doubt that there needs to be more affordable housing for the working poor. Yet, the author offers no suggestions as to how that would best be accomplished.<br />Moreover, the author, during her work as a cleaner for a cleaning service company, seems to have a lot of negative things to say about people who have had some demonstrable achievements in life. The author seems to forget that in almost every chapter she does not hesitate to remind the reader that she holds a Ph.D, is middle class, educated, yada, yada, yada. The one positive thing that comes out of her experience as a cleaner is that she points out that  some cleaning service companies are doing a pretty filthy job of cleaning people's homes. Thanks, Barbara, for the tip, as I would now never consider using such, preferring to do it myself. Unfortunately, her remarks just  might cause some of these companies to lose business, causing them to cut back on personnel, the very working poor of whom the author writes.<br />While the book is interesting at times, the pretentiousness of the author is generally grating and the books ends up being a poor execution of its promise. The author is the quintessential do-gooder, placed in settings of which she has little understanding other than her own pre-conceived, ideologically based ones. It is true that minimum wage will never allow anyone to flourish without some sort of support system in place. Minimum wage is nothing more than what its name states it is.  Minimum wage, however, allows the unskilled, minimally experienced worker to get some job experience and a proven track record in terms of the work world. Moreover, some of the problems that the author mentions are just  those of bad management by those in  positions of power. This is not, however, a situation relegated to those who hold minimum wage jobs. Corporate America is rife with bad management and bosses that treat their employees, even well-compensated ones, badly.t that in almost every chapter she does not hesitate to remind the reader that she holds a Ph.D, is middle class, educated, yada, yada, yada. The one positive thing that comes out of her experience as a cleaner is that she points out that  some cleaning service companies are doing a pretty filthy job of cleaning people's homes. Thanks, Barbara, for the tip, as I would now never consider using such, preferring to do it myself. Unfortunately, her remarks just  might cause some of these companies to lose business, causing them to cut back on personnel, the very working poor of whom the author writes.<br />While the book is interesting at times, the pretentiousness of the author is generally grating and the books ends up being a poor execution of its promise. The author is the quintessential do-gooder, placed in settings of which she has little understanding other than her own pre-conceived, ideologically based ones. It is true that minimum wage will never allow anyone to flourish without some sort of support system in place. Minimum wage is nothing more than what its name states it is.  Minimum wage, however, allows the unskilled, minimally experienced worker to get some job experience and a proven track record in terms of the work world. Moreover, some of the problems that the author mentions are just  those of bad management by those in  positions of power. This is not, however, a situation relegated to those who hold minimum wage jobs. Corporate America is rife with bad management and bosses that treat their employees, even well-compensated ones, badly.	2003-12-06
875483:US	49355567	R1MI0COVOY85JE	0671567772	288454653	The Silent Passage: Revised and Updated Edition	Books	4	22	23	N	N	NEEDS FURTHER UPDATING...	This book is an excellent overview of menopause but needs further updating in light of the current controversy over Hormone Replacement Therapy (HRT). The author is still all aglow over HRT, and it is heralded within the pages of this book as if it were the end all, be all for menopausal women. While this was the general prevailing medical view, it seems that further research has put its value in question somewhat, and HRT is now at the heart of some heated medical controversy.<br />Still, if the reader is aware already of this budding medical controversy over HRT, the book does offer some insights into menopause in an informative and fairly concise fashion. This should prove to be especially helpful to the hordes of baby boomer women who are entering this phase of their lives.  The book also provides information into holistic, alternative ways of addressing some of the issues attendant in menopausal women. It appears that nature may provide some palliatives that some women may find preferable to the drug-infused approach of some medical practitioners.<br />Overall, this is an excellent, well-researched book and one that a lay person can read with ease. It provides interesting insights into the emotional, psychological, and medical concerns of peri-menopausal and menopausal women and discusses some of the remedies that are available, if necessary, to ease women through this major life passage. The book has clearly been a labor of love for the author, and she has endeavored, with success, to remove the mystery that has enshrouded menopause for so long.	2003-12-05
913361:US	49355567	R2ZHFY495E1ADL	0449203468	671969884	Scent of Cloves	Books	5	15	18	N	N	INTRIGUING HISTORICAL FICTION...	This is an entertaining work of historical fiction by best selling author Norah Lofts. A master storyteller, Ms. Lofts transports the reader to the mid-seventeenth century, where Cromwell's puritan army is on the march, killing  Royalists everywhere. In Ireland, an English lord and his lady, Royalists to the core,  await their doom in their castle, while their infant daughter's Irish nursemaid, Maire, spirits their babe away to seek safety in some local caves.<br />The child, Julia, is saved but brought up in poverty in rural Ireland, as all her kinfolk have perished by Cromwell's hand and their property confiscated. When Maire dies, Julia is a young child of about eight years, left to virtually fend for herself, eating slops left for pigs, and on the brink of starvation. One day, she catches the eye of a kindly Dutch sea captain who, realizing she is an orphan,  decides to take her with him back to the Netherlands, as he and his wife of  twenty-two years have been unable to have a child. Speaking Gaelic with a smattering of English, Julia quickly learns to speak Dutch. Unfortunately, the sea captain's wife does not take to Julia, though she hides it from her husband, who dotes on the child.<br />When the sea captain dies unexpectedly about four years later, his widow loses little time in shedding herself of the child whom she has always secretly resented as a usurper of her husband's affection. Placed in an orphanage, Julia once again learns to fend for herself. She has a hard time adapting herself to life in the orphanage and, ultimately, at the age of fourteen, finds herself sent away to the Home for Company's Daughters. This was a home where young women were trained to become good wives for the Dutchmen who worked overseas in the spice trade for the Dutch East India Company, growing nutmegs and cloves. Many of these Dutchmen prospered on plantations on exotic islands in the South East Indies, becoming rich and living like Eastern potentates.<br />To be such a wife was to be the beautiful Julia's fate, as she shortly finds herself married off by proxy to a man whom she has never met or seen. Embarking on a long sea voyage to meet her husband, she eventually arrives on the Moluccan island of Banda, only to find herself greeted by her father-in-law rather than her husband. Spirited away to the remote, smaller island of Rua, she encounters a strange exotic beauty on that plantation island and a mystery surrounding  her young, wealthy husband. In due course, she meets him, and the mystery is unveiled. Julia reluctantly finds herself playing a part in a drama directed by her father-in-law. Slowly, an insidious plot is revealed to her, and it becomes too clear why a Company's Daughter was selected to be the wife of the plantation's heir.<br />This was an interesting book, because of its unusual locale and historical underpinnings. Well written, with an eye for period detail, the author maintains the reader's attention. Filled with suspense and adventure, this is a book that will keep the reader turning its pages. Those who enjoy the works of Victoria Holt and Anya Seton will surely appreciate Ms. Lofts' skill in rendering a worthwhile work of historical fiction.fe was to be the beautiful Julia's fate, as she shortly finds herself married off by proxy to a man whom she has never met or seen. Embarking on a long sea voyage to meet her husband, she eventually arrives on the Moluccan island of Banda, only to find herself greeted by her father-in-law rather than her husband. Spirited away to the remote, smaller island of Rua, she encounters a strange exotic beauty on that plantation island and a mystery surrounding  her young, wealthy husband. In due course, she meets him, and the mystery is unveiled. Julia reluctantly finds herself playing a part in a drama directed by her father-in-law. Slowly, an insidious plot is revealed to her, and it becomes too clear why a Company's Daughter was selected to be the wife of the plantation's heir.<br />This was an interesting book, because of its unusual locale and historical underpinnings. Well written, with an eye for period detail, the author maintains the reader's attention. Filled with suspense and adventure, this is a book that will keep the reader turning its pages. Those who enjoy the works of Victoria Holt and Anya Seton will surely appreciate Ms. Lofts' skill in rendering a worthwhile work of historical fiction.	2003-11-04
913851:US	49355567	R1GF32MZFB32F2	0553578553	131310413	Dawn on a Distant Shore (Wilderness)	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	ENTERTAINING HISTORICAL ADVENTURE EPIC...	This is the second in a series of three published books by this author. Following  on the heels of the author's enormously popular debut novel, &quot;Into the Wilderness&quot;, this novel attempts to pick up where the other one left off.  While eminently entertaining, it does not reach the heights of the author's beautifully written, debut novel.<br />In this sequel,  Elizabeth and Nathaniel Bonner have their idyllic married life in late eighteenth century Upstate New York shattered shortly after Elizabeth gives birth to a set of fraternal twins. Nathaniel, upon learning that his father, Hawkeye, an intrepid backwoodsman with strong ties to the Mohawk nation,  has been arrested in Canada,  departs to the rescue. When he sets foot over the border, he, too,  find himself arrested as a spy  and imprisoned in Montreal with his father, victim of a sinister plot.<br />Elizabeth, never one to sit  by idly, packs up the twins, and she, too, goes to the rescue. The Bonner men, however,  are released through the intervention of others before Elizabeth and her entourage arrive. The hand of fate deals them yet another blow, however, when they all are spirited away by ship to Scotland, where the Catholic Earl of Carryck awaits their arrival. It seems that the Earl has determined that Hawkeye is his  long lost first cousin and, consequently, his heir. The Earl means for Hawkeye or Nathaniel to inherit the Earldom, in order to thwart his Protestant adversaries. Unfortunately for the Earl, the entire Bonner family proves to be uncooperative, leading to many adventures, both on land and on the high seas.<br />Part of the charm of the author's debut novel lay in its telling of life in Upstate New York in the late eighteenth century, with all of its historical underpinnings. That is entirely is lost here, as this novel takes a decidedly international turn. Some of the adventures are a little too far-fetched, making the novel seem a bit incongruous at times, though still eminently readable on its own terms.  Those who enjoyed the author's debut novel  will, undoubtedly, enjoy this sequel, though with an underlying layer of disappointment that the debut novel proved to be just too hard an act to follow. Still, notwithstanding this, I am looking forward to reading the third novel in this series, &quot;Lake in the Clouds&quot;, as will all fans of this author.able on its own terms.  Those who enjoyed the author's debut novel  will, undoubtedly, enjoy this sequel, though with an underlying layer of disappointment that the debut novel proved to be just too hard an act to follow. Still, notwithstanding this, I am looking forward to reading the third novel in this series, &quot;Lake in the Clouds&quot;, as will all fans of this author.	2003-11-04
914447:US	49355567	R30OMDQ0X3W1O7	1565114272	481105340	Beowulf	Books	4	22	22	N	N	BEOWULF LITE...	This is the new verse translation of this first millennium text, which was written sometime between the seventh and tenth centuries by an unknown English author. Translated by Seamus Heaney, winner of the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1995, and read by him on this audio cd, he breathes new life into this mythic epic.<br />This is the story of the heroic Beowulf , and his timeless story is stark in its simplicity, made sonorous by the poetic reading given by Seamus Heaney. It is, in its simple narrative, a story that was meant to be read aloud. After all, between the seventh and the tenth centuries, few people could read.<br />Seamus Heaney gives a remarkable reading, his soft brogue and cadence capturing the dark, epic mood of the piece. His verse translation gives the story an accessibility that should make it a much more enjoyable experience for many who may have shied away from this early English work.<br />What is there not to like about this story? It is about a hero who vanquishes monsters and lives to fight another day in the quintessential battle between good and evil. Its message, undoubtedly relevant when written, is still relevant today. Those who are new to this work should consider purchasing the audio cd and listening to Seamus Heaney's rendition of this ancient work.	2003-11-04
914575:US	49355567	RMGYUKXPO3XDI	1589820754	277284251	Imaginary Lines	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A PROMISING AND PLEASING DEBUT NOVEL...	This is an intriguing debut novel. Part conspiracy theory and part legal thriller, the author integrates the two genres into a gripping book that will keep the reader turning its pages. The reader is immediately hooked  by its striking, well-written prologue in which a well orchestrated assassination plot is carried out in the city of Kabul in Afghanistan.<br />The book then takes the reader stateside to the Pacific Northwest, where, in Oregon, a high school history teacher finds himself arrested and at the hub of a brewing local controversy. It seems that this beloved history teacher has been accused of sexually molesting a number of his male students. A young attorney, a rising star from a private firm, is assigned to represent him pro bono.<br />Little does the attorney know that there are forces gathering about the case, forces of which he is initially ignorant. It seems that a secret society, the powerful and immensely wealthy Guardians of the Republic, has an interest in this matter and is quietly working behind the scenes to ensure that an injustice does not occur. Within that society, however, a canker is growing, one that is working at odds with all that this society holds dear, threatening its very fabric.<br />Meanwhile, at the local level, a maelstrom of controversy is surrounding those young people who have been involved in some way in their former teacher's current predicament. Caught in a media frenzy stirred by the power hungry, local district attorney, they all become embroiled in a venture that is more than what it seems, unwitting participants in a drama that goes far beyond their local travails.<br />Conceptually imaginative and interesting, the plot is definitely the strength of the book, which is at its zenith when the Guardians of the Republic hold sway over its pages. The author weaves a most compelling narrative when focused on this portion of the book. The legal thriller portion is the weaker aspect of the book, as it seems to lack some grounding in legal reality. Moreover, as it is a plot driven book with many twists and turns, character development seems to take somewhat of a back seat.  Still, this is an intriguing debut novel, and one that merits a reading by those who enjoy intricately plotted thrillers. I actually hope that we have not seen the last of the Guardians of the Republic, as the possibilities seem endless.unding in legal reality. Moreover, as it is a plot driven book with many twists and turns, character development seems to take somewhat of a back seat.  Still, this is an intriguing debut novel, and one that merits a reading by those who enjoy intricately plotted thrillers. I actually hope that we have not seen the last of the Guardians of the Republic, as the possibilities seem endless.	2003-11-04
934900:US	49355567	R1IBBBE3XXPFR5	0553578529	391628853	Into the Wilderness	Books	5	13	16	N	Y	A SWEEPING SAGA OF LATE 18TH CENTURY UPSTATE NEW YORK...	This novel is the first in a series of three such novels published to date. It is a riveting, page-turning work of well-written historical fiction. It is a story  woven from the gossamer threads of history and infused with the creativity of this author, so as to produce an utterly spellbinding  and ambitious, sweeping epic novel.  This is a novel that will appeal to those who love rousing historical fiction that carries with it a sense of teeming and timeless adventure.<br />Those readers who have enjoyed the enormously popular &quot;Outlander&quot; series of novels by author Diana Gabaldon will especially enjoy this book. It should be noted that Diana Gabaldon herself has warmly endorsed this book. Moreover, that its author is herself a fan of Ms. Gabaldon, there can be little doubt, as the two main characters in Ms. Gabaldon's best selling &quot;Outlander&quot; series make a brief appearance nearly midway through this book. Moreover, the author also incorporates James Fennimore Cooper's character &quot;Hawkeye&quot; from his book, &quot;The Last of the Mohicans&quot;,  adding to the intriguing pastiche of characters, historical, literary, and imaginative,  who pepper this book.<br />The book is simple in its premise. An independent and outspoken, intelligent Englishwoman in her twenties, Elizabeth Middleton, leaves England with her brother Julian, to join their father, Judge Alfred Middleton, in the mountains of upstate New York, northwest of Albany. There, she meets Hawkeye's son,  handsome backwoods man Nathaniel Bonner, a man who straddles two worlds, that of the white man and that of the native American, and finds herself falling head-over-heels in love with him.<br />Despite her father's attempts to marry her off to a wealthy landowner and the village doctor, Richard Todd, she gravitates towards Nathaniel in defiance of her father, who has his own reasons for wanting to marry her off to Dr. Todd.  The good doctor also has his own secret agenda in this matter, a secret that he keeps well hidden until thwarted of his desire. To further complicate matters, Elizabeth sets herself up as a school teacher for all the children of the village in which she lives, black, white, and native American,  but finds herself locked in conflict with those who believe that education is only for a select group.<br />What happens to Elizabeth  and Nathaniel, as well as to their respective families,  is positively gripping, given the adventures into which they are thrust. The author gives the reader a tantalizing glimpse into what  life may have been like in upstate New York during that time period, with all its hardships, deprivations, and political and social turmoil, as well as the constantly shifting conflicts and alliances between the white settlers and the Mohawk nation.<br />Descriptively rich and densely plotted, filled with historical personages of the time and well-known historical events,  this ambitious and compelling novel will have the reader compulsively turning the pages until the very end. It is simply a wonderfully told and enthralling tale that any discerning lover of historical fiction will enjoy. Bravo!a secret that he keeps well hidden until thwarted of his desire. To further complicate matters, Elizabeth sets herself up as a school teacher for all the children of the village in which she lives, black, white, and native American,  but finds herself locked in conflict with those who believe that education is only for a select group.<br />What happens to Elizabeth  and Nathaniel, as well as to their respective families,  is positively gripping, given the adventures into which they are thrust. The author gives the reader a tantalizing glimpse into what  life may have been like in upstate New York during that time period, with all its hardships, deprivations, and political and social turmoil, as well as the constantly shifting conflicts and alliances between the white settlers and the Mohawk nation.<br />Descriptively rich and densely plotted, filled with historical personages of the time and well-known historical events,  this ambitious and compelling novel will have the reader compulsively turning the pages until the very end. It is simply a wonderfully told and enthralling tale that any discerning lover of historical fiction will enjoy. Bravo!	2003-10-19
935049:US	49355567	R3Q4X8QUTG4HSV	0671025465	961720190	Deviant: The Shocking True Story of Ed Gein, the Original Psycho	Books	5	49	59	N	N	OUT OF AMERICA'S HEARTLAND....	This is a well-researched book about Ed Gein, the mild mannered, Midwestern psychopath from Plainfield, Wisconsin who, in the nineteen fifties, would shock the nation with his gruesome crimes. Ed Gein would become the basis for the best selling book by Robert Bloch, &quot;Psycho&quot;, as well as for the Hitchcock film of the same name. Accounts of Ed Gein's heinous crimes would also enter the consciousness of a young Tobe Hooper who, as an adult, would write and direct the classic cult film, &quot;The Texas Chainsaw Massacre&quot;.<br />The author writes a cogent, factual account of the life of Ed Gein and the grisly crimes that shocked the nation at the time of their discovery.  It details the hold that Ed's domineering mother had on him, a hold that would manifest itself in unimaginable ways. It is almost  hard to believe that this small, inoffensive man could be such a madman, but who but a madman would do what he did? Ed Gein, it was discovered, had turned his small farmhouse into a gruesome charnel house, replete with furnishings adorned with human flesh and bones.<br />Aficionados of true crime will find this book fascinating, as it is a well-written account of one of the most horrifying and bizarre series of crimes ever to be committed. Eight pages of photographs are included in the book and serve to provide the reader with a brief, visual glimpse into the life of Ed Gein, a man with a secret hobby so depraved that it would shock the entire nation when it came to light. Lovers of true crime accounts will be fascinated by this well researched foray into the life of a seemingly innocuous man from America's heartland who ended up being so deviant from the norm.	2003-10-19
941585:US	49355567	RZHSSFDBCVRAV	055208252X	96422533	Hester Roon	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	A STIRRING TALE OF 18TH CENTURY ENGLAND AND THE WEST INDIES	This is a stirring tale of the life of  a young, beautiful, eighteenth century Englishwoman. Born the bastard daughter of a maid in service at a roadside inn, Hester Roon was adored by her mother, who struggled to give her some advantages, such as an education. Hester's world would  come crashing down upon her at a young age with her mother's untimely death due, in part, to involvement with a highway robber.<br />After her mother's death, Hester, no more than a child, is inducted into service at the very same inn where her mother had tediously labored. Years of sheer drudgery pass uneventfully, until the owner of the inn notices that Hester is blossoming into young womanhood. Commanding her to become his mistress, he forces himself upon her. Hester, repulsed by what has happened to her and determined that it should not happen again, flees to London, having a few adventures along the way.<br />When the somewhat naive Hester finally arrives in London, she is befriended by denizens of London's seamy underworld. Scammed into being the unknowing and unwilling participant in a felonious scheme, Hester is caught, tried, and convicted. Faring better than her cohorts in crime, she is transported to the West Indies, little more than a slave. Selected to work as companion to a young gentlewoman on a slave-run sugar plantation, she fatuously falls in love with the woman's handsome husband, only to discover that a better man loved her. Initially repudiating him, it would take a bloody slave rebellion to open her eyes and make her realize the worth of this man, who would love her unconditionally and do anything and everything to ensure her happiness and safety.<br />This is a sweeping panoramic tale of eighteenth century England and the West Indies. Artfully told by a master storyteller, it will keep the reader turning the pages until the very end.	2003-10-13
941859:US	49355567	R5LBB4CTN6ZXL	0333907159	8148905	The Climb: Tragic Ambitions on Everest	Books	3	5	8	N	Y	CLIMB EVERY MOUNTAIN...	This is the story about the 1996 Everest tragedy told from the perspective of Anatoli Boukreev, who was one of the guides on the ill-fated Mountain Madness expedition. It is written almost as a rebuttal to the perceived criticism by Jon Krakauer (Into Thin Air) of Boukreev's actions on that ill-fated Everest climb.<br />This is a poorly written account which is oftentimes confusing. It has none of the clarity of prose found in Krakauer's &quot;Into Thin Air&quot;. It is, however, an important chronicle from someone who was there on Everest, and who had a pivotal role in the tragic events. Boukreev provides an insider's view of the Mountain Madness expedition itself and of the preparations which go into such a journey. It is packed with many interesting details that will delight Everest junkies.<br />Whether Boukreev's actions on the mountain were irresponsible, in that he did not use supplementary oxygen to summit and immediately returned to camp after summitting, rather than remain with the expedition's clients, or whether he was just following the orders of the expedition leader, Scott Fisher, who himself died on Everest, is an issue which will long be debated in mountaineering circles. There is no doubt, however, that Boukreev did, in fact, single handedly rescue three of the climbers during a raging blizzard; climbers who without his intervention would have died. Given the extreme weather conditions, his foray up the mountain to rescue climbers is nothing less than heroic. Of course, the countervailing argument is that this heroic effort might not have been necessary, if he had remained with the expedition's clients during their summit attempt.<br />Boukreev's is an important voice in the Everest annals, more so now that his voice has been silenced. On Christmas day, 1997, Boukreev died in an avalanche on Annapurna. RIP.	2003-10-13
942327:US	49355567	R1ZIT0R5GF3ZLU	8426114318	578716941	Annapurna - Primer 8.000 (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	MOUNTAINEERING PIONEERS...	This book is a romanticized, sanitized account of the 1950 French expedition to the Himalayas by its ostensible leader, Maurice Herzog. It is a book that is reflective of the times in which it was written. Still, it should be a must read for anyone who is interested in high altitude climbing.<br />I first read this book in the early 1960s as a young teenager. I recall being enthralled by it and amazed at the hardships the climbers endured to bring glory to France. In reading it again as an adult, I find myself still enthralled, but more attuned to the fact that it is written in a somewhat self-serving style.<br />The book itself chronicles the attempt by the French to climb an 8,000 meter peak in the Himalayas. They had two alternatives: Dhaulagiri and Annapurna. In those days, the Himalayas were largely uncharted and any topographical maps which existed at the time proved to be largely incorrect. So, the French expedition spent a large portion of their time in reconnaissance. Not only were they there to climb the mountain, they had to find a way to get to it and then map out a route on the unknown terrain to the summit. Ultimately, they chose to climb Annapurna.<br />In reading this book, one must remember that the climb took place without the sophisticated equipment or protective clothing available today. This was before gortex and commercial freeze-dried foods. This climb was made before Nepal or climbing the Himalayas became a major tourist attraction. The conditions for travelers were extremely primitive and difficult under the best of circumstances.<br />When the expedition finally finds a route to Annapurna, the reader almost feels like cheering for them. When they start to climb, one senses that, in comparison to latter day expeditions, they are not so well equipped or savvy about the dangers one can encounter during a high altitude climb or the risks in doing it without supplemental oxygen, as they did. Then one realizes that they were pioneers. They were paving the way for others.<br />The climb to the summit by Maurice Herzog and his partner, Louis Lachenal, is interesting, but it is their harrowing descent and return to civilization which is riveting. The two summiteers begin their descent but run into difficulties. They are fortunate to encounter two of their fellow climbers, Lionel Terray and Gaston Rebuffat, who are contemplating their own summit assault but, instead, choose to aid their comrades in the descent, foregoing their own quest for the summit.<br />The travails which the climbers encounter on the descent would have finished off less hardy souls. Maurice Herzog loses his gloves during the descent and has no spare pair. One of them falls into a crevasse which, believe it or not, turns out to be a good thing. They are caught in an avalanche. They get lost in a storm. They become frostbitten, and two of them are, ultimately, forced to endure amputations.<br />The medical treatment they received by the expedition doctor is unbelievable and almost primitive. Employing treatments for frostbite that have since fallen onto disrepute (excruciatingly painful arterial injections, for example), the doctor is almost frightening, at times. The reader cannot help but feel pity for the suffering the injured climbers endured: maggot ridden flesh, amputations without anaesthesia, and lack of proper medical care for a protracted period of time.<br />The heroics of some of the Sherpas, as on most expeditions, go largely unsung. One must, however, pause to reflect on the fact that as this all took place before airlifts were available, the injured climbers had to be carried. Their exodus back to the frontier took about five weeks. Who carried them down the mountain, over the moraines, on makeshifts bridges over flooded, raging rivers, through dense jungle? Who else but the Sherpas. What thanks did they get? None, as usual.<br />Anyway, when the expedition finally return to France, Maurice Herzog is lauded as a national heroby the French. He becomes the media darling. The other three climbers, as are the rest of those on the expedition, are largely ignored and forgotten. Therein lies the tale. Notwithstanding, however, its idealization, romanticism, and everything is hunky-dory routine, Herzog's book is still a must read for all climbing enthusiasts.by the French. He becomes the media darling. The other three climbers, as are the rest of those on the expedition, are largely ignored and forgotten. Therein lies the tale. Notwithstanding, however, its idealization, romanticism, and everything is hunky-dory routine, Herzog's book is still a must read for all climbing enthusiasts.	2003-10-13
948721:US	49355567	R2FT48DJ19P3PQ	8425326001	219855986	Una Fortuna Peligrosa (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	UNA OBRA MAGNIFICA...	The author, a masterful storyteller, weaves an intriguing and mesmerizing tapestry of events that surround the wealthy Pilaster banking family in the latter part of nineteenth century England. Its panoramic sweep will hold the reader in its thrall. This complex story tells of the ebb and flow of their personal fortunes and the personalities that are to profoundly affect them, for better or worse.<br /><br />Augusta Pilaster is the scheming, socially conscious, self-appointed matriarch of the family. She is a woman who will stop at nothing to ensure that her reckless and easily manipulated husband, Joseph, and their indolent, dissolute, and lackluster son, Edward, will get and retain control of the Pilaster banking enterprise. Her Machiavellian machinations, however, will eventually trigger the downfall of the family's fortune.<br />Hugh Pilaster, Augusta's nephew by marriage, is the Pilaster who has the brains and work ethic to take the Pilaster banking fortunes to a new level. His Achilles heel is that he seems destined to be attracted to working class women, a chink in his armor that Augusta Pilaster uses to her and her immediate family's advantage. He, too, is Augusta Pilaster's unwitting pawn, until the day of reckoning comes.<br />Micky Miranda is the romantically handsome scion of a South American despot. Micky attended an exclusive school with Edward and Hugh Pilaster, when they were young. While there, tragedy struck when a mysterious swimming accident took the life of one of their friends, an event that was to shadow their lives in ways no one could have imagined. Micky Miranda would eventually enter into a web of complicity with Augusta Pilaster that would impact on the fortunes of both the Miranda and Pilaster families.<br />This book takes the reader through all strata of English society, from the drawing rooms of the upper classes and nobility to the exclusive men's clubs and brothels that cater to exotic appetites. It is a totally engrossing and absorbing tale of love, hatred, and treachery that spans three decades. It is a story that the discerning reader and those who love well written historical fiction will thoroughly enjoy. Bravo!ing tale of love, hatred, and treachery that spans three decades. It is a story that the discerning reader and those who love well written historical fiction will thoroughly enjoy. Bravo!	2003-10-07
948724:US	49355567	R12EGD5J3SVN0U	8439704305	260454447	Prisionera, La (Spanish Edition)	Books	2	1	1	N	N	NO VALE LA PENA...	This is the Spanish text edition of a book that, on its face, held a lot of promise. Any story in which a mother and her children, as well as faithful family retainers, are unjustly imprisoned in squalid conditions for twenty years for an ostensible crime committed by the familial patriarch would certainly be of interest. Wrong! This is a tepid and disappointing book, poorly written and, most certainly, poorly edited. It is so filled with contradictions and inconsistencies, as to create somewhat of a credibility gap for the reader.<br /><br />The story revolves around the Oufkir family, who were, at one time, a prominent, highly respected, and well known Moroccan family. Their story is told by Malika Oufkir, who is the eldest daughter of the late General Oufkir, who was executed in August 1972, immediately following an aborted attempt to assassinate King Hassan II of Morocco, for whom he was the Minister of Defense. General's Oufkir's treasonous action was the catalyst for the tragic turn of events that were to ungulf his family.<br /><br />After the aborted coup, the General's immediate family was placed under house arrest and four months later, along with two loyal family retainers who volunteered to share their fate, were whisked away to the first of several desert prisons that were to house them for the next fifteen years.<br /><br />As Malika tells it, hers was initially almost a fairy tale story. Brought up in luxurious surroundings, she suffered early heartbreak when, at the age of five, she was separated from her family and \\"adopted\\" by then King Muhammad V, so as to be a live in playmate for the King's daughter. This adoption is never really explained, and one has no idea what her parents' thoughts were on this issue. Malika lived in the Palace in the lap of luxury for many years. As a teenager, however, she moved back with her family, where, there too, she continued to live a very privileged life, steeped in luxury and money.<br /><br />After the Oufkirs' circumstances changed, theirs is truly a tragic story. There is little doubt that the conditions in their desert prisons were deplorable and squalid. With inadequate sanitation, insufficient food, no medical care, or educational provisions, the family was truly living a life of privation. Cutoff from the outside world, as they were, they truly were disenfranchised.<br /><br />Their escape from their last desert prison, an escape that brought their plight to the consciousness of the public, was amazing. But for their escape, there is no doubt in my mind that they would still be languishing in a desert prison today, barely alive, if not already dead. I salute their determination and ingenuity in making a desperate break for freedom.<br /><br />The problem lies in the telling of the story, which is so poorly told. Many things are left unexplained. No effort is made to ground the events that led to their family's downfall in a historical context. Whatever Malika said seems to have been what went into the final draft of this book, even if she contradicted herself a page or two later, which is the main problem with the book. There are so many inconsistencies with what Malika herself says, that the discerning reader is left to question much of what she represents.<br /><br />Malika comes across as a somewhat self-absorbed, vapid woman to whom fate dealt a harsh and unusually cruel hand. Her self absorption is most evident in that she barely acknowledges the sacrifice of the two faithful family retainers, who voluntarily shared their fate, nor does she discuss the impact that this had on them. It is also a little disconcerting that more does not come through about the perceptions the other family members had about this hellish experience. Their insight might have provided a little more balance and interest to the narrative. In the hands of a good writer and and excellent editor, this book might have withstood scrutiny and met expectations.<br /><br />Sorry, Oprah, your bookclub selections are usually excellent. This one fails to make the grade.club selections are usually excellent. This one fails to make the grade.	2003-10-07
948810:US	49355567	R2BPQJAPC7KOXB	2266112716	342906782	Souffle Le Vent/ When the Wind Blows (French Edition)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	BIRDS OF A FEATHER...	This is the French text edition of a fairly tepid book that revolves around secret, government sanctioned experiments on humans, dealing with some of the ethical themes of today: cloning, genetic engineering of humans, and cross species hybrids.<br /><br />The plot is simple. Two of the test subjects have escaped the confines of the closely guarded, secret laboratory. Matt and Max, a brother and sister team that can fly, are being hunted down. Yet, They need only spread their wings, and, as did Icarus, they can soar up high into the wild blue yonder. The only problem is that hunters must bring them back to the secret lab, before anyone sees them. To further complicate things, Matt and Max do not wish to be caught, because they know that bad things happen in the lab and that people, who are deemed dispensable and no longer necessary, are \\"put to sleep\\" and never seen again.<br /><br />In the outside word, the children separate. Eleven year old Max has the good fortune to run into Frannie O'Neill, a compassionate veterinarian who immediately realizes that there is something extraordinary about Max, beyond the fact that she has real, honest-to-goodness wings and can fly. Frannie is aware that Max is more than the sum of her parts. Together with the help Kit Harrison, an FBI agent, they will do everything they can to help Max evade her pursuers. In the process, they themselves become earmarked for death.<br /><br />While the premise of this novel is intriguing, it is done in by the torpor of the prose and by characters that are one dimensional.	2003-10-07
949214:US	49355567	RNSK4P3KQCDDL	8401493536	910725580	Luna	Books	3	0	0	N	N	NO ES PARA TANTO...	Having read &quot;The Fog&quot;, an absolutely terrific book by this author, I looked forward to reading this one. I am sorry to say that this book does not even begin to compare to &quot;The Fog&quot;, a book that is superior in every way to this effort.<br />The plot is simple. A schoolteacher, Jonathan Childes, has certain psychic abilities over which he has little control. He can apparently meld his mind with that of a sadistic killer. Unfortunately for him, this killer is aware of Childes' mental intrusion and deduces who and where Childes is.<br />Some tension is created by having Childes become a suspect in a series of murders of which Childes' is aware due to his mind meld with the actual killer. His knowledge is a double edged sword. The killer then decides to bring his handiwork a little too close to home for Childes' tastes, and the plot thickens.<br />This book is mildly entertaining at best, as the tension does not really hold up.  Moreover, the ending is somewhat ridiculous and disappointing, reminiscent of a promise unfulfilled.  The author is certainly capable of better.  If one is looking for a book of unrelenting horror, then this is not the book for which one is looking. It is more of a murder mystery with supernatural overtones, and a somewhat mediocre one, at that.	2003-10-07
949246:US	49355567	R3OME5PAZWJ7DV	8401463521	643548382	La Mujer de Piedra/Judgement in Stone (in Spanish) (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	BRILLANTE...	This is one of Ruth Rendell's earlier works and, perhaps, one of her best. More of a novella, rather than a full fledged novel, by virtue of its brevity, it is absolutely brilliant, well-written, and gripping from the get go. Ms. Rendell captures the reader with her first sentence, &quot;Eunice Parchman killed the Coverdale family because she could not read or write.&quot;<br />This is a descriptive and insightful literary stunner about how an illiterate, middle aged women gets to the point that she wipes out a family one fateful evening. The book takes the reader, step by step, through the events that lead up to this crossroad. It explores the mind of Eunice Parchman, a woman so limited in her world view and so robotic in her actions that she is almost repellent.  The reader marvels at her very existence and is sure to find her fascinating character study.<br />Ms. Parchman's interactions with the well educated Coverdale family, who employs her as a housekeeper, are intriguing and always interesting, as she struggles to keep her illiteracy a secret. How Ms. Parchman circumvents its discovery for as long as does,  the lengths to which she goes to maintain a facade of literacy, and her socially inappropriate responses to every day situations, paint an intriguing psychological portrait for the reader. The eventual discovery of her illiteracy results in  a ghastly outcome, which makes for some gripping and chilling reading.<br />Ms. Rendell is masterful in her storytelling, infusing mundane situations with an understated horror that is all the more chilling because of the common denominator that strikes a chord with the reader.  Written is well-nuanced,  taut, spare style, this book is a literary gem that will keep the reader riveted to its pages. Bravo!	2003-10-07
949257:US	49355567	R1F4GDMRTAYZUB	8420465607	512914687	Los Diarios De Nanny/the Nanny Diaries (Spanish Edition)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	UNA NOVELA SIN SENTIDO...	I had originally thought that this was going to be a work of non-fiction in a nanny tell all. It turned out, instead, to be a mildly funny look at the rich and obnoxious and their young children through the eyes of a spineless nanny. While some of this book is amusing, it is not  particularly well written. It is the kind of book you read once, and then promptly forget. It is not a bad book, as it is somewhat entertaining. What this book really represents is what happens when a book grabs the attention of the media. It becomes a best seller. Long after the dust settles, I anticipate that this book will be to the publishing world, what a one hit wonder is to the music industry.<br />This work of fiction provides caricatures of selfish, self-absorbed, wealthy parents and a peek into the life of their overly-structured and overly-managed offspring. The nanny in question is also a caricature, as she struggles to be appear good hearted, but in the end is just a spineless jellyfish who goes along with the program, no matter how offensive she may find her employers and their demands to be. The nanny tries to come across as an underprivileged, put upon employee, but is, in reality, part of the problem, as she is certainly not a part of the solution. She is an upper middle class, young woman who attends a prestigious university. She is hardly one of the hoi polloi, no matter how much she may empathize with those who are truly at the mercy of employers such as the ones found in this book. As social satire, this book falls short. Borrow it from the library. Do not bother to buy it, as it is a one note book. If you feel that you must buy it, do yourself a favor and wait until it is available in paperback. It is a quick, throwaway read.	2003-10-07
949346:US	49355567	RF3VNWM8KZ0OU	8440635923	30660306	Viven ! El Triunfo del Espiritu (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	TRAGEDIA EN LOS ANDES...	Time has not diminished the drama of the tale of the Uruguayan rugby team whose plane crashed in the Andes Mountains. Of the forty five people on the plane at the time of the crash, sixteen came down from the mountain about seventy days later with a saga of survival not easily forgotten.<br />Theirs is a journey born of tragedy and human endurance. The author unfolds a tale that is gripping in the telling, as enthralling as it is almost unbelievable. It is investigative reporting at its best, because it does not fail to convey the human drama and pathos behind the story of this remarkable struggle for survival high up in the Andes Mountains. Masterfully written, it is a well balanced narrative that takes great pains to ground the experience of the survivors in the context out of which it arose.<br />The plane had crashed in the Andes Mountains on Argentinian territory. It was an exercise in terror for those on the plane, as it barreled down the mountain, before finally coming to rest in a valley of snow high up in the Andes. Of the forty five persons on board, thirty two had initially survived the crash. Some, however, had sustained serious injuries. Time would not be their friend. Moreover, with little warm clothing (keep in mind that October is springtime in South America), the survivors were exposed to the extreme cold of the night air, high up in the Andes. Though spring, this still meant temperatures well below freezing. Damp, cold, and hungry, amid the anguished cries of the injured, thus began the first of many such nights.<br />By their tenth day in the Andes, the limited food supplies, which they had rationed with all the care of a miser, had virtually run out. Starving and ravenously hungry, they voiced what they all knew to be true, but had not dared to voice before. They must eat, or they would die. The only thing left for them to eat, however, was abhorrent and deeply repugnant to them. Digging deep into their conservative, religious souls, they found a way to justify actions that would have them transcend a new reality. Their fallen comrades would now provide the means of their sustenance. All eventually succumbed to this only means of survival.<br />This, while one of the most dramatic parts of their story, is just that, a part. Their survival entailed much more. They had to endure other deprivations. They had to survive the elements. They had to overcome a profound despair over being seemingly forgotten by the outside world. Ultimately, only sixteen were able to do so. How they did so will fascinate all readers of adventure literature. The means that they took to let the world know that they were still alive will astound even the most jaded of readers. It is an account of human endurance that is thought provoking and compelling, a quest to reconcile physical needs with the spiritual. It is, above all, a riveting testament to life.way to justify actions that would have them transcend a new reality. Their fallen comrades would now provide the means of their sustenance. All eventually succumbed to this only means of survival.<br />This, while one of the most dramatic parts of their story, is just that, a part. Their survival entailed much more. They had to endure other deprivations. They had to survive the elements. They had to overcome a profound despair over being seemingly forgotten by the outside world. Ultimately, only sixteen were able to do so. How they did so will fascinate all readers of adventure literature. The means that they took to let the world know that they were still alive will astound even the most jaded of readers. It is an account of human endurance that is thought provoking and compelling, a quest to reconcile physical needs with the spiritual. It is, above all, a riveting testament to life.	2003-10-07
949435:US	49355567	R3DXUTLEVXDX57	2266110225	855477798	La Mujer Del Piloto/ the Pilot's Wife (French Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	IGNORANCE IS BLISS...	This is the French text edition of a beautifully written novel about a happily married woman, Kathryn Lyons, whose husband, Jack, is an airline pilot. They have a teenage daughter named Mattie. They live in her lovely childhood home in Ely, New Hampshire. For sixteen years life has been good. Then her husband goes down with his plane, just ten miles off the coast of Ireland, and ever so slowly the very fabric of their life together unravels.<br /><br />The media frenzy, surrounding the explosion of the plane that her husband was piloting, brings to light the plain fact that her husband had been, unbeknownst to her, leading a double life, a life that had not included her or their daughter, but had, most emphatically, excluded them. This is a story of Kathryn's navigation of the emotional roller coaster that was to become her life. She is thrust into a maelstrom of grief and disbelief, as she struggles to reconcile her memory of the man she thought she knew, with the reality of who he now appeared to have been.<br /><br />This is a remarkable book, written in clean spare prose that underscores some of the very emotion laden issues with which it grapples. At times infinitely sad and poignant, it is a story of betrayal and splintered memories, as well as a very absorbing, skillfully told tale of adultery that will hold the reader in its thrall.	2003-10-07
949772:US	49355567	R2VD424TV98ECI	2253059536	229342985	Les Piliers de la Terre (Le Livre de Poche) (French Edition)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A SPELLBINDING LOOK AT TWELFTH CENTURY  MEDIEVAL LIFE...	This is the French text edition of a masterful saga of life in twelfth century England and epic storytelling at its best. The author weaves a rich and colorful tapestry of people, places, and events surrounding the building of a magnificent cathedral in the medieval town of Kingsbridge.<br /><br />Early twelfth century England was a country in a state of flux. King Henry I had died without a male heir. His daughter Maude was to be queen. The English barons, for the most part, however, refused to swear fealty to her. Maude's first cousin, Stephen of Blois, then usurped her rights and proclaimed himself king. This was to plunge England into a civil war that was to last for many, many years, turning England into a virtually lawless and tumultuous land, until Maude's son became King Henry II of England.<br /><br />For most people, however, life would go on with every day concerns being paramount. The book tells the story of a number of these lives. One story is that of Tom, a master builder, whose life long dream was to build a cathedral. The lives of Tom and his family would intersect that of a humble and intelligent monk named Phillip who would become the prior at Kingsbridge Priory. The fates would intervene and provide Tom with an opportunity to pursue his dream.<br /><br />Their lives would intersect with a number of other individuals, some good, some evil, who would have a great impact on their lives and their goals. Tom would lose his first wife, Agnes, by whom he already had two children, brutish Alfred and sweet Martha, due to complications sustained during the birth of another son. This son was to provide a connection between Tom and Phillip of which Phillip would long be unaware.<br /><br />Tom would ultimately marry Ellen, a strong willed independent woman of the forest, perceived by many to be a witch. Her son Jack, a sensitive, highly intelligent lad, whose father was deceased, would grow to manhood. His dream would begin where Tom's had left off. In Jack's background, however, was a mystery surrounding his deceased father, a French jongleur. That mystery in some way involved Sir Percy Hamleigh, Waleran Bigod, and Prior James, the old prior of Kingsbridge before Phillip.<br /><br />When Earl Bartholomew of Shiring makes the treasonous mistake of siding with Maude in the conflict with Stephen, he ends up on the losing side. Sir Percy Hamleigh and his son William, siding with Stephen, attack the Earl's castle, and take Earl Bartholomew captive. Imprisoned for treason, he loses his earldom to the Hamleighs. His young son and heir, Richard, and his daughter, the beautiful Lady Aliena, are left to fend for themselves, but not until William Hamleigh has slaked his thirst for revenge upon them. You see, William had been engaged at one time to marry the Lady Aliena, only to be spurned by her to his vast public humiliation. This was the moment for which he had been waiting. Aliena and Richard would ultimately migrate to Kingsbridge to begin a new life.<br /><br />Meanwhile, the church itself was having its own political intrigues. Phillip was tricked by Waleran Bigod, an ambitious arch-deacon, into supporting him for the post of bishop. Phillip would later best Waleran and incur his enmity for a lifetime. Remigius, a spy for Waleran Bigod, was a monk at Kingsbridge Priory who saw his dream of becoming prior at Kingsbridge dissipate with the advent of Phillip. He would spend a lifetime undermining Phillip and plotting against him. Moreover, the fate of Kingsbridge and the building of its cathedral would always seem to hinge upon the political vagaries of the time. Its fortunes would ebb and flow with the political winds.<br /><br />Ever present throughout the destinies of all these characters is the age old battle between good and evil. Complicating it further were those who sought to do good but did evil, believing that the end justified the means. Spanning over fifty turbulent years, this is a spellbinding story of love, hate, faith, betrayal, revenge, and triumph. Against a backdrop of civil war, the sharply drawn characters grasp the imagination of the reader. Twelfth century England is laid out in painstaking detail, providing an unforgettable backdrop for the lives lived within the pages of this memorable work of historical fiction. This book is simply riveting. Bravo!e, faith, betrayal, revenge, and triumph. Against a backdrop of civil war, the sharply drawn characters grasp the imagination of the reader. Twelfth century England is laid out in painstaking detail, providing an unforgettable backdrop for the lives lived within the pages of this memorable work of historical fiction. This book is simply riveting. Bravo!	2003-10-07
950004:US	49355567	R187EW4NTZGV14	9500422727	453223842	Higos Frescos Antes de Morir (Spanish Edition)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	ATMOSPHERIC AND ELEGANTLY WRITTEN BUT FAILS TO DELIVER...	This is the Spanish text edition of an intriguing novel about the murder of Dora, a young eighteen year old woman found dead in a park. The contents of her stomach at the time of death contained a half digested fig. She was also a patient of Dr. Freud. You see, her murder happened in Vienna, Austria in 1910.<br /><br />The case is assigned to a nameless inspector, who is trying to investigate this homicide according to certain principles set forth in a book of criminalistics written at the turn of the century. It is an intellectual and cerebral approach to a criminal  investigation. It is also an interesting look at a turn of the century police procedural.<br /><br />Meanwhile, Dora's murder has captured the imagination of the inspector's independent, Hungarian born wife, Erzebet, who, unbeknownst to her husband, has begun her own parallel investigation based upon intuition and her own cultural proclivities. She is joined in her endeavor by her friend, a governess who is at loose ends while her employer is away.<br /><br />During the investigation, this elegantly written novel paints an atmospheric, three dimensional portrait of turn of the century Vienna, lush with details about everyday life. It is this part of the book that is the strongest and the most interesting, as it is highly evocative of a place and time gone by. The mystery itself, however, ends up not being much of a mystery, after all. In the final analysis, the promise of this highly ambitious novel remains unfulfilled, as the author simply bit off more than she could chew. The novel whets the appetite but, ultimately, fails to sate it.	2003-10-07
950353:US	49355567	R1A8879I0J25SR	2266115227	209608570	Prisonniers Du Temps/ Timeline (French Edition)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	C'EST MAGNIFIQUE...	This is the French text edition of \\"Timeline\\", a book that is an absolute page turner. It opens with one of the most absorbing first chapters I have ever read. An elderly man is found wandering in the desert, speaking in rhyme. There is something not quite right about him. The hospital to which he is taken discovers that the anomalies do not end with just his speech. Something is very wrong with him.<br /><br />Highly inventive and compelling, the reader is reeled in hook, line, and sinker, right from the get go. A wholly plot driven book, make no mistake about it, the story revolves around a highly secretive, technological corporation, ITC, headed up by a megalomaniacal, young genius, who is tooling around with quantum physics in a way that has never before been done. Our genius is spearheading a project that is truly cutting edge. Of course, he is not doing this for the betterment of mankind. He is doing it simply because it will ultimately result in mega bucks for him, if all goes according to plan. Alas, the best-laid plans often go awry.<br /><br />Cut to a group of dedicated historians who are involved in an archaeological dig, located along the Dordogne River in France. Their project, the ultimate restoration of a fourteenth century, feudal town, is very generously funded by ITC. Now why would a technological giant such as ITC be funding such a project?<br /><br />This is the basic premise of the book. The use of quantum physics is applied in such a way as to access the past. Here, a group of historians find themselves with the chance of a lifetime. They can actually enter fourteenth century, feudal France and experience it themselves. There is quite an adventure in store for them.<br /><br />Their reason for doing so, however, is not research. They are actually on a mission to rescue their chief historian who had ventured into fourteenth century, feudal France, using ITC's technological application of quantum physics. Due to an unfortunate set of circumstances, however, he found himself mired in the fourteenth century and unable to return to the present, as originally planned.<br /><br />What happens to these intrepid historians will captivate the reader. Well written and thoroughly researched, those who, like me, love science fiction, as well as historical fiction, will, most likely, enjoy this book. As a devotee of medieval history, I was entranced by the historical detail contained within the novel. I also found the book somewhat reminiscent of the sci-fi television series called \\"Sliders\\", in which the concept of quantum physics is utilized in order to slide into parallel universes.<br /><br />All in all, this well-written novel makes for riveting, escapist entertainment. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and found that I simply could not put it down!es, however, he found himself mired in the fourteenth century and unable to return to the present, as originally planned.<br /><br />What happens to these intrepid historians will captivate the reader. Well written and thoroughly researched, those who, like me, love science fiction, as well as historical fiction, will, most likely, enjoy this book. As a devotee of medieval history, I was entranced by the historical detail contained within the novel. I also found the book somewhat reminiscent of the sci-fi television series called \\"Sliders\\", in which the concept of quantum physics is utilized in order to slide into parallel universes.<br /><br />All in all, this well-written novel makes for riveting, escapist entertainment. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and found that I simply could not put it down!	2003-10-06
960758:US	49355567	R1RH5ZELJKC8AR	0345462351	156130144	The Awakening	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A WONDERFUL, OLD-FASHIONED GHOST STORY WITH A TWIST...	The author, who has written a number of well-received books, including her elegantly written werewolf saga (\\"The Passion\\", \\"The Promise\\"), now turns  her attention to ghosts in this intriguing tale of the supernatural. Those who have enjoyed the author's previous books will not be disappointed.<br /><br />The story is told through the eyes of a family in crisis, the Masons, as well as through the eyes of  Mary, the ghost in this well told tale. The Masons are a family who have had their world turned upside down through a series of unfortuitous events. Their teenage daughter Elsie is suffering from some traumatic experience that has resulted in her being home schooled. Paul, the patriarch of the family, has done the near unforgivable, by having an affair with a student at the college at which he had been a professor. Having been summarily dismissed from his position for his ill advised behavior, he, a formerly successful writer, also has had the misfortune to watch his career wane, as that of Penny, his wife and a successful surgeon, has been on the rise. Clearly, this is a family in crisis.<br /><br />To escape the scandal, help their daughter, and try and save their marriage, the Masons have moved to their lakefront home in a rural section of North Carolina. While there, each of the family members has a series of unusual experiences. Elsie sees a woman named Mary wandering about the house, as does her father, while Penny has a series of violent dreams in which the woman named Mary also plays a part.<br /><br />Meanwhile, Mary is having her own crisis, as the reader will soon discover.  Mary has ties to the house in which the Masons now reside, and the Masons themselves seem all too familiar to her, as she wanders around the house and grounds. You see, Mary is desperately trying to remember something that remains elusive, and the Masons may just have the key to her past.<br /><br />This story is beautifully told when done so through the voice of Mary. Vivid in its imagery and language, it is very well done. When told through the collective voices of the Mason family, the book takes a much more pedestrian tone in the telling, which detracts somewhat from the book and takes away some of its polish and luster. Notwithstanding this, it is an intriguing and novel ghost story that is well worth reading.magery and language, it is very well done. When told through the collective voices of the Mason family, the book takes a much more pedestrian tone in the telling, which detracts somewhat from the book and takes away some of its polish and luster. Notwithstanding this, it is an intriguing and novel ghost story that is well worth reading.	2003-09-27
968786:US	49355567	R339YR4A3XA8QY	0449205606	538617501	The Winthrop Woman	Books	5	32	34	N	N	PURITAN NO MORE...	This is a dazzling work of historical fiction that I first read as a young adult. Now, over thirty years after first reading it, I find that time has not diminished the power and passion of this exquisitely written work of historical fiction. At the heart of this fine novel, is Elizabeth Fones, an Englishwoman  who would marry her first cousin, Harry Winthrop, and would go on to lead a life of which few of us would dream.<br />As a member of the austerely Puritan Winthrop family, Elizabeth would chafe under its restrictive influences. When the family fortunes abated in England due to the religious beliefs of the family patriarch, John Winthrop, Elizabeth's uncle and father-in-law, the entire family sets off for the New World to become founding members of the Massachusetts Bay colony, a theocracy under which Elizabeth was to know much heartache.<br />A passionate and vibrant woman, Elizabeth would have a number of personal situations that would cause her to become notorious amongst the Puritan colonists. She would be both reviled and admired for her actions, which were singular for those times. This is an absorbing, page turner of a book that takes a look at sixteenth century England during the tumultuous time that preceded the civil war that would see an act of regicide and the rise of Puritan Oliver Cromwell. It also relates the turmoil that underlay the government of the nascent Massachusetts Bay colony with all its factionalism, restrictive practices, and bigotry.<br />The novel, set against a historical backdrop filled with well known  personages of the time, both English and Dutch, lovingly chronicles and explores Elizabeth's passage in life as a member of the illustrious Winthrop family, her troubled marriages, her relationship with the Siwanot Indians, and the trials and tribulations that she underwent as a compassionate, independent woman in a time when to be such was to destine oneself to become a pariah within the larger community.<br />This is a historical novel that is epic in its telling, beautifully written, and one to be savored until the very last page is turned. Bravo!l novel that is epic in its telling, beautifully written, and one to be savored until the very last page is turned. Bravo!	2003-09-20
968837:US	49355567	R3NNH31D8MU2DC	0099255723	139870009	The Death Zone: Climbing Everest Through the Killer Storm [Paperback]	Books	4	12	13	N	N	KILLER STORM...KILLER STORY...	This is a gripping account of the deadly storm that engulfed Mt. Everest in May 1996 and left a trail of dead bodies in its wake on the mountain. In this first person chronicle, originally released under the title &quot;The Other Side of Everest&quot;, the  author writes about the storm as experienced on the north face of Everest, in which death came calling.<br />The author provides many details of his expedition's ascent which is sure to fascinate and delight all Everest junkies. The narrative is compelling and absorbing. The tragic deaths of three members of the Indian team who reached the summit, only to become engulfed by the storm during their descent down the precipitous north face of Everest, trapping them over night, is heartbreaking. The callousness of a Japanese expedition who, on their ascent to the summit the following day, passed the Indian climbers, still alive but near death, and refused to aid them in their extremis, is truly shocking.<br />The author also rehashes the effect of the storm on the south face and the heavy toll of life it exacted there. Jon Krakauer, however, does it better in his gripping book &quot;Into Thin Air&quot;, which chronicles the devastating impact  the 1996 storm had on the south face of Everest. In the final analysis, the author, Matt Dickinson, a novice climber who first ascended Everest that May 1996, comes across as a self-absorbed, selfish sort of lout. Notwithstanding his own personal shortcomings, however, his book still makes for an absorbing read.	2003-09-20
969356:US	49355567	R1174R1HYNC9OX	0449230341	958275721	My Theodosia	Books	4	12	13	N	N	ANOTHER OLDIE BUT GOODIE...	Having read this well-written book many years ago and having thoroughly enjoyed it, I decided it was time to pay an old friend another visit and re-read it. Time has certainly not diminished the capacity of this book to entertain the reader.<br />The talented author deftly weaves the gossamer threads of history with fiction, creating a tapestry that tells the reader of the tragic life of Theodosia, beloved daughter and only child of the notorious Aaron Burr. Written by a master storyteller, it is an enjoyable and poignant portrait of Theodosia. While her life was tragic in many respects, the book tells a compelling story of a young woman whose name will forever remain in the annals of history.	2003-09-20
976264:US	49355567	R2Z82A8IJ1EKBE	1842833170	829916644	Katherine	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	A LOVE FOR THE AGES...	Written nearly half a century ago, this well-researched historical fiction is as vibrant and as stirring today, as it, undoubtedly, was when it was first written. It regales the reader with the story of beautiful Katherine De Roet, the youngest daughter of a herald who was knighted before he died, and John of Gaunt, brother to Edward, the Black Prince, heir to the throne of England.<br />This is a richly drawn portrait of a scintillating love affair that would prove to be enduring in a time that was rife with political intrigue. Set in a medieval landscape with all the pageantry, strife, and turbulence that constituted fourteenth century England, this narrative is peppered with those characters and individuals that made the period memorable. Beautifully written, it is a novel to be savored and one with which the most discerning reader would be well satisfied.	2003-09-14
977440:US	49355567	R1HZAKJ8UW3TXL	0345344855	780090665	Live Flesh	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	AN INTRIGUING LOOK INTO THE SOCIO-PATHIC CRIMINAL MIND...	This is an absorbing story that could only have been crafted by Ruth Rendell, the doyenne of the quirky murder mystery and chiller killer thrillers. Here, she takes a look into the socio-pathic mind of the amoral Victor Jenner, released back into the world after serving ten years in prison for shooting and paralyzing a young police sergeant. <br />He tracks down the now wheelchair bound officer, meeting both him and his beautiful, devoted  girlfriend. You see, in Victor's skewed world view, it was the officer's fault that he got shot, costing Victor ten of the best years of his life. Victor just wants to set the record straight. Who would have thought that they could all be friends? Therein lies the tale.	2003-09-13
984601:US	49355567	R3U72364K22865	0684852586	524319009	Invasion of the Body Snatchers	Books	5	7	8	N	N	DOUBLE TROUBLE...	This is a wonderfully inventive story that has spawned three films. Well written, the book tells the tale of a small town through the eyes of its young doctor, Miles Bennell. It seems the town is undergoing a drastic change which is as subtle as it is deadly. It seems that all the townspeople are not what they seem. They look the same. They sound the same. Their memories are intact. Still, they are just not the same.<br /><br />Those who have noticed this, suddenly end up retracting  their concerns days later. Something is  not right in the town of Mills Valley, and Dr, Bennell knows it. Those large seed pods that are suddenly showing up every where are at the root of it. Their unearthly presence is connected to the profound changes that the people of Mills Valley are undergoing, and Dr. Bennell will stop at nothing to save his beloved town and the world from the invasion of the body snatchers.<br /><br />This is a great story by a wonderfully inventive writer. Jack Finney is a masterful story teller. He expertly weaves a tale that will keep the reader riveted to the pages of this book. It is no wonder that three films based upon this book have been made, \\"The Invasion of the Body Snatchers\\" (1956), The Invasion of the Body Snatchers (1978), and Body Snatchers (1994). All three are worth watching.	2003-09-07
991641:US	49355567	R2QANM3C3VHROI	0330393790	94945383	The Ghosts of Everest: The Authorised Story of the Search for Mallory and Irvine	Books	4	5	5	N	N	DID THEY OR DIDN'T THEY?...	This is a wonderfully written and well-illustrated, textually rich book. Its pages demand the reader's undivided attention and are sure to enthrall all mystery lovers, Everest aficionados, nostalgia junkies, history buffs, and climbing enthusiasts. This book is sure to provide the reader with many hours of enjoyment.<br />The book chronicles the search for George Mallory and Andrew Irvine by the 1999 Mallory &amp; Irvine Research Expedition. It juxtaposes the dramatic turn of events during their expedition with those of the 1924 British Everest Expedition which saw Mallory and Irvine attempt a summit climb, only to disappear into the mists of Everest, never to be seen again. It makes for a spell binding narrative, as past events are woven through present day ones.<br />The 1999 Mallory &amp; Irvine Research Expedition was a meticulously well-prepared and well-organized venture. With its discovery of George Leigh Mallory's body, it enjoyed much success. The research and analysis that went into its ultimate, well thought out conclusions were comprehensive and fascinating, with its strong reliance upon forensics and deductive reasoning. Their reconstruction of Mallory's and Irvine's last climb is riveting. Unfortunately, the ultimate question still remains unanswered. Did they or did they not reach the summit of Mount Everest back in 1924?<br />The photographs of the personal effects found upon Mallory's person underscore a certain poignancy about the discovery of Mallory's well preserved body. The photographs, which memorialize this discovery, are amazingly lovely and tasteful, considering its subject matter, and hauntingly illustrate the finality with which Everest may deal with mountaineers, no matter how accomplished.<br />The photographs also highlight how ill equipped for the harsh climatic conditions were the early Everest expeditions. It is amazing, and a credit to those early expeditioners' courage and fortitude, in braving such an inhospitable and harsh terrain with the inadequate clothing and equipment available to them at the time. Mallory and Irvine were certainly intrepid explorers!<br />This book is a fitting tribute to two men who sought to make a historic summit and, in their attempt, would forever be a part of Everest.in with the inadequate clothing and equipment available to them at the time. Mallory and Irvine were certainly intrepid explorers!<br />This book is a fitting tribute to two men who sought to make a historic summit and, in their attempt, would forever be a part of Everest.	2003-09-01
991704:US	49355567	R1H8MH9IP1Y505	0449240525	829916644	KATHERINE (Fawcett Crest Book)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A MEDIEVAL PASSION...	Written nearly half a century ago, this well-researched historical fiction is as vibrant and as stirring today, as it, undoubtedly, was when it was first written. It regales the reader with the story of Katherine De Roet and John of Gaunt. Beautifully written, it tells the story of Katherine, the youngest daughter of a herald who was knighted before he died.<br />Born commoners, Katherine and her older sister Philippa, who went on to marry Geoffrey Chaucer, were left poor as church mice. While Philippa managed to obtain a post in the household of the Queen, wife to King Edward III, Katherine went to a convent where she grew up. When she had grown into her early teens and become a raving beauty, she left the convent to join her sister at Court. Upon doing so, her youthful beauty captivated a boorish knight, Sir Hugh Swynford, who lusted after her. He eventually married Katherine, when it became clear that it would be the only way by which he could satisfy his desire.<br />At the same time that she met her husband to be, she also caught the eye of  John of Gaunt, the Duke of Lancaster, son of King Edward III and brother to Edward, the Black Prince, heir to the throne of England. John was, at the time, happily  married to a beautiful woman named Blanche, who would befriend Katherine.  After reluctantly becoming Lady Swynford, Katherine retired to her husband's estates. She would meet John of Gaunt again, igniting a passion that, upon the death of  Blanche and that of Sir Hugh Swynford, would be consummated.  For John of Gaunt, Katherine would remain the love of his life and his mistress, even though, for reasons of state, he could not marry her, at the time.  He, instead, married the heiress to the throne of Castile.<br />Still, Katherine remained with him, bearing him many children. Their illicit union was to cause much unrest and scandal throughout England, until they finally parted, only to reunite in their later years. John of Gaunt would then do something unprecedented that would bring them much happiness in their final years. Many of their descendants today populate the courts of Europe, including that of Great Britain.<br />This is a richly drawn portrait of a scintillating love affair in a time that was rife with political intrigue. Set in a medieval landscape with all the pageantry, strife, and turbulence that constituted fourteenth century England, this narrative is peppered with those characters and individuals that made the period memorable. Beautifully written, it is a novel to be savored and one with which the most discerning reader would be well satisfied.ented that would bring them much happiness in their final years. Many of their descendants today populate the courts of Europe, including that of Great Britain.<br />This is a richly drawn portrait of a scintillating love affair in a time that was rife with political intrigue. Set in a medieval landscape with all the pageantry, strife, and turbulence that constituted fourteenth century England, this narrative is peppered with those characters and individuals that made the period memorable. Beautifully written, it is a novel to be savored and one with which the most discerning reader would be well satisfied.	2003-09-01
991888:US	49355567	RJABUDNHCBXTL	1841193399	570315128	True Summit: What Really Happened on Maurice Herzog's First Legendary Ascent of Annapurna	Books	4	2	2	N	N	THE TRUE STORY BEHIND THE FIRST ASCENT OF ANNAPURNA...	This book explores what may actually have happened during the 1950 French expedition to the Himalayas which was 'led' by Maurice Herzog. This expedition was the first to summit an 8,000 meter peak, and it was the cause for much nationalist pride in post-war France.<br />'True Summit' is a very interesting read in terms of its research, as well as its historical and archival detail. Its author, David Roberts, is himself a mountaineer and has an innate understanding of the subject matter of the book, which contributes to its success.<br />I would, however, highly recommend that one first read Maurice Herzog's &quot;Annapurna&quot; which is Herzog's first person, romanticized account of the expedition and the source for much of what is analyzed in this book. Reading it will ground readers of 'True Summit' in the context out of which this book arises, and will make it that much more enjoyable.<br />After the ostensible summit of Annapurna (more about this in 'True Summit') by Herzog and Louis Lachenal who were aided in their harrowing descent by fellow expeditioners, Lionel Terray and Gaston Rebuffat, only Maurice Herzog went on to become a national hero in France. The other three mountaineers, all of whom were more experienced and proficient, were largely ignored in what was to become a carefully orchestrated, media event around Maurice Herzog.<br />&quot;True Summit&quot; attempts to set the story straight and right past wrongs. It also helps to debunk the self-serving, though gripping, sanitized account authored by expedition leader Maurice Herzog. What emerges is a more realistic picture of what may have actually transpired during that fateful, 1950 French expedition.<br />This book ensures that the contributions of three of the main protagonists, Lachenal, Terray, and Rebuffat, all highly experienced mountaineers from the Chamonix region of France, will not be forgatten. It is a memorial to their efforts during that expedition and well worth reading.	2003-09-01
992013:US	49355567	R36C3D5242H4DR	3492230490	272907911	Die Frau Des Piloten/ the Pilot's Wife (German Edition)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	THINGS ARE NOT ALWAYS WHAT THEY SEEM...	This is a beautifully written novel about a happily married woman, Kathryn Lyons, whose husband, Jack, is an airline pilot. They have a teenage daughter named Mattie. They live in her lovely childhood home in Ely, New Hampshire. For sixteen years life has been good. Then her husband goes down with his plane, just ten miles off the coast of Ireland, and ever so slowly the very fabric of their life together unravels.<br />The media frenzy, surrounding the explosion of the plane that her husband was piloting, brings to light the plain fact that her husband had been, unbeknownst to her, leading a double life, a life that had not included her or their daughter, but had, most emphatically, excluded them. This is a story of Kathryn's navigation of the emotional roller coaster that was to become her life. She is thrust into a maelstrom of grief and disbelief, as she struggles to reconcile her memory of the man she thought she knew, with the reality of who he now appeared to have been.<br />This is a remarkable book, written in clean spare prose that underscores some of the very emotion laden issues with which it grapples. At times infinitely sad and poignant, it is a story of betrayal and splintered memories, as well as a very absorbing, skillfully told tale of adultery that will hold the reader in its thrall.	2003-09-01
992191:US	49355567	R3PL2HU03T54LO	0752271946	291885214	A Stir of Echoes	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A PLEA FROM BEYOND THE GRAVE...	Although not one of Matheson's best efforts, it nevertheless makes for a page turning, good read. Written nearly half a century ago, the book still has a contemporary feel to it. There are just a few issues which remind one how long ago it was written. Its central themes, however, are as fresh today, as when the book was first published.<br />The main character in the book is Tom Wallace, a working stiff with a house and family, who goes to a local gathering of friends and family. There he allows himself to be hypnotized by a relative who is an amateur hypnotist. A doubting Thomas, he agrees to undergo hypnosis in the belief that he would not be susceptible to it. Much to his chagrin and the amusement of others, he is, indeed, put under. Shortly after coming out of his trance, he finds that life, as he knew it, had irrevocably changed.<br />What he had thought was a cheap parlor trick, turned out to be the catalyst that changed his immediate reality. His existence began to be punctuated by visions, telepathic intrusions, psychic impressions, and other paranormal experiences. The effect that this has on him, his life, and those whom he loves is what gives the book its substance.<br />It is this altered reality, however, that makes his new life more meaningful than the one he had been leading prior to his being hypnotized. The book barrels on to a climactic ending, as events from the past intrude on the present, demanding a resolution. The realization that things or people are not always what they seem are brought home here with great impact.	2003-09-01
992541:US	49355567	R2TCNP2CG5287V	8439704445	367098810	Hacia Arriba (Spanish Edition)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	EVEREST AS A TROPHY MOUNTAIN...	This is yet another perspective of the 1996 Everest tragedy by a survivor of the fiasco. Written in journal style, the author at times frames her thoughts in a staccato, stream of consciousness, rambling fashion, coupled with new age psycho babble. At other times, she intones in a pseudo profound way about Everest. The author comes off as a silly, vapid individual.<br />It is interesting to note that while the author refers to Scott Fischer's expedition (of which she was a member) as an environmental one with a mission to clean up the debris on Everest left by expeditioners, nowhere does she state what it was that those on Scott Fischer's expedition were going to do to ameliorate the mess on the mountain. While she climbs up and down Everest, acclimatizing herself, she does not appear to be doing anything that remotely resembles conservation or clean up. Nor does she indicate any affirmative interest in doing anything constructive to that end.<br />She intones about the consequences of hubris up on the mountain. Yet, she, who had never before climbed Everest, was insisting that she would climb it without oxygen. She was even getting into arguments about it with Scott Fischer, who had the sense to tell her she would be climbing with oxygen. As it turned out, he was right. She could barely make it with oxygen. She should thank her lucky stars that he was so insistent that she climb with oxygen, otherwise she, too, would probably have died on Everest.<br />She also incessantly refers to herself as a mountain climber, but she didn't even know what gear she should take, relying on the recommendations of others, and then criticizing their recommendations when they ran counter to her expectations. It is clear, no matter how she wants to dress up her reasons for climbing Everest, that it was just a trophy mountain for her. She hoped that climbing Everest would gild the path for her to some psuedo celebrity status in her country of Denmark.<br />Her take on Anatoli Boukreev is much more sympathetic than was Jon Krakauer's in his book Into Thin Air. She saw Anatoli as an asset and misunderstood because of his taciturn demeanor. Anatoli comes off very well in this account. In fact, her take on him is much more sympathetic than her take on Scott Fischer, in whom she was apparently disappointed as an expedition leader. I must say if she acted the way she described in her book, then Scott Fischer, who was a true mountaineer, must of been heartily sick of her bravado about climbing Everest without oxygen. Her inflated sense of self is truly staggering at times. When she talks about hubris, she would do well to look no further than her own mirror.<br />Notwithstanding all of this, her account has some merit. As an Everest junkie, I found parts of her journal to be of interest, which is why I rated it three stars, rather than two.is much more sympathetic than was Jon Krakauer's in his book Into Thin Air. She saw Anatoli as an asset and misunderstood because of his taciturn demeanor. Anatoli comes off very well in this account. In fact, her take on him is much more sympathetic than her take on Scott Fischer, in whom she was apparently disappointed as an expedition leader. I must say if she acted the way she described in her book, then Scott Fischer, who was a true mountaineer, must of been heartily sick of her bravado about climbing Everest without oxygen. Her inflated sense of self is truly staggering at times. When she talks about hubris, she would do well to look no further than her own mirror.<br />Notwithstanding all of this, her account has some merit. As an Everest junkie, I found parts of her journal to be of interest, which is why I rated it three stars, rather than two.	2003-09-01
1032945:US	49355567	R1S2TRFFTAWU3W	0375704973	872631324	The Lake of Darkness	Books	5	76	77	N	N	THROUGH A GLASS DARKLY...	Ruth Rendell is a fabulous British author who has churned out mystery after mystery filled with dark, demented twists. This is another tautly plotted, well crafted mystery with characters that, though seemingly normal, are just a tad off the beaten path.<br />This book features Martin Urban, a staid and somewhat stuffy young man who would have felt at home in Victorian England. Martin wins a very large sum of money in a football pool with a little help from Tim Sage, an old friend of his. Altruistic and given to some rather god-like pronouncements, Martin wishes to give the money away to the deserving poor, in order to enable them to buy a home. Poor Martin, there are none so blind, as those who will not see.<br />Beset by subliminal homo-erotic thoughts regarding Tim Sage, he meets a mysterious young woman named Francesca, who is as demure and submissive as a Victorian maiden and captures his heart. Unfortunately,  she is bound to another. All, however, is not as Martin thinks that it is.<br />Enter Finn, the twisted son of Lena, former cleaning lady to Martin's mother. When Finn's path crosses that of Martin's, during one of Martin's fumbling attempts to give some of his winnings away, a very clever dialogue ensues between these two with some unexpected, deadly results.<br />Fans of Ms. Rendell will not be disappointed by this book. It is filled with the slightly off-beat characters for which she is known, some of whom harbor dark twisted thoughts, while others are entirely socio-pathic. Well-written is spare, clear prose and filled with enough twists and turns to satisfy the most discerning of readers, this is another gem in Ms. Rendell's treasure trove of mysteries.	2003-07-27
1037480:US	49355567	R1SQC12BRMCQ24	9501500454	909002573	Enemigos Apasionados (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	QUEEN MATILDA OR KING STEPHEN?...	This is the Spanish text esition of the third and final book in The Norman Trilogy. It tells the story of the last days of the reign of England's King Henry I. His son, William, having died in a tragic shipwreck, and his beloved wife, Matilda, having long been dead, Henry hastily remarried a woman more than thirty years his junior in hopes of begetting a male heir and securing succession. England had no heir save Matilda, Henry's cold and imperious daughter, and Henry had concerns that his nobles would not willingly serve a woman.<br /><br />Matilda was an Empress of Germany through her first marriage. She became Countess of Anjou through her second marriage to Geoffrey Plantagenet and would have a number of children, one of whom was named Henry. Both marriages were loveless, having been arranged for purposes of state. She had, however, a passionate attachment to her first cousin, Stephen of Blois.<br /><br />Stephen was the youngest son of Adela, the King's favorite sister. He freely returned Matilda's passionate devotion, though he, too, was forced into an arranged marriage by his uncle, King Henry I. Though Henry was very fond of Stephen, looking upon him as if her were a favored son rather than his nephew, he was unaware of how things stood between Stephen and Matilda. By a cruel twist of fate, Matilda and Stephen were destined never to he husband and wife, though they would become lovers.<br /><br />The book recounts the turbulent years that were to follow the death of King Henry I. Upon his demise and despite having sworn fealty to Matilda, Stephen did the unthinkable and took possession of the English crown. It was an act that was to undo all that King Henry I had done and plunge England into a bitter civil war that would last for years.<br /><br />Matilda and Stephen were doomed to cross swords, as passionate in their fight for the crown as they were in their love for each other. For many years, they were to battle bitterly over the throne of England. Each would become prisoner of the other at some point in time, until Matilda, deprived of the wise counsel of her illegitimate half brother, Robert of Gloucester, due to his unexpected death, reluctantly ceased to do battle and returned to Anjou.<br /><br />As the years passed, Stephen wished to secure the succession to the English throne and have his son, Eustace, recognized as the heir apparent. Matilda's son, Henry Plantagenet, who had since married Eleanor of Aquitaine, however, stood between Stephen and his wish. The English clergy preferred Henry, whom they recognized as the true heir, over Eustace, the son of the usurper, Stephen. When the Archbishop of Canterbury himself urged Henry to take the English Crown by force, Henry lost no time in crossing the English Channel. On the brink of battle, due to some unusual machinations on the part of Matilda, the Treaty of Wallingford was born by which Stephen recognized Henry Plantagenet as his successor to the English throne, dispossessing his son, Eustace. Thus was born the era of the Plantagenets.<br /><br />This is a rousing and entertaining work of historical fiction. The author crafts a spellbinding tale, expertly woven with historical detail. She paints a portrait of a young man and woman who were destined by fate to forever remain star-crossed lovers. What ultimately happened to them would influence the course of English history for generations to come. This is a book that is sure to grip the imagination of all those who love historical fiction.ould become prisoner of the other at some point in time, until Matilda, deprived of the wise counsel of her illegitimate half brother, Robert of Gloucester, due to his unexpected death, reluctantly ceased to do battle and returned to Anjou.<br /><br />As the years passed, Stephen wished to secure the succession to the English throne and have his son, Eustace, recognized as the heir apparent. Matilda's son, Henry Plantagenet, who had since married Eleanor of Aquitaine, however, stood between Stephen and his wish. The English clergy preferred Henry, whom they recognized as the true heir, over Eustace, the son of the usurper, Stephen. When the Archbishop of Canterbury himself urged Henry to take the English Crown by force, Henry lost no time in crossing the English Channel. On the brink of battle, due to some unusual machinations on the part of Matilda, the Treaty of Wallingford was born by which Stephen recognized Henry Plantagenet as his successor to the English throne, dispossessing his son, Eustace. Thus was born the era of the Plantagenets.<br /><br />This is a rousing and entertaining work of historical fiction. The author crafts a spellbinding tale, expertly woven with historical detail. She paints a portrait of a young man and woman who were destined by fate to forever remain star-crossed lovers. What ultimately happened to them would influence the course of English history for generations to come. This is a book that is sure to grip the imagination of all those who love historical fiction.	2003-07-23
1037482:US	49355567	R1QR1PLTCHIGDZ	8440684908	862060514	Las Favoritas de La Reina (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	WHAT GOES AROUND...COMES AROUND	This Spanish text edition is a spellbinding work of historical fiction. A continuation of the Stuart saga, Jean Plaidy weaves an absorbing account of the reign of Queen Anne. Rich with historical detail, it captures the imagination of the reader until the very last page is turned.<br /><br />When King William died, his sister-in-law, Anne, became Queen of England. Anne, however, was easily manipulated by her childhood friend, Sarah Churchill, now the Duchess of Marlborough. Power hungry, Sarah had her own agenda, and she manipulated the Queen to her own advantage. Viewed as the power behind the throne, Sarah was courted by many who sought her favor or intercession with the Queen.<br /><br />Sarah, however, was brash, insensitive to others, and overly confident, faults that were to cloud her judgment. She also forgot her position and presumed too much when speaking to the Queen. It was as if the roles were reversed. When she ensconced her poor relation, Abigail Hill, in a position in the Queen's household,  Sarah never suspected that quiet, shy Abigail could destroy all for which Sarah had connived.<br /><br />This is a wholly absorbing and enjoyable work of historical fiction, replete with plots, intrigues, and political machinations.	2003-07-23
1037562:US	49355567	RBKW2EWLGLWGW	9501514811	221071448	La Reina Cautiva (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	FROM QUEEN TO CAPTIVE...	This is the Spanish text edition of a work of historical fiction at its finest. Masterfully written, the author weaves a spellbinding tapestry of events that chronicles the life of Mary Stuart, the Queen of Scots, while in captivity. The book details her stay at the castle on the island of Lochleven in Scotland, while at the mercy of her ambitious, illegitimate half brother and self-proclaimed Regent, the Earl of Moray. It recounts her daring escape from her Scottish captors, as well as her woefully misguided decision to flee to England, rather than to France or Spain.<br /><br />Instead of the succor that the beautiful, charming, and very Catholic Mary, an anointed Queen, expected to receive from her cousin, the wily and Protestant Elizabeth I of England, Mary found, instead, an uneasy captivity. From the moment of her entry to England, she was in effect a prisoner, commuted from castle to castle with a never-ending succession of jailers whose task was to ensure that she did not escape. It was a captivity that was to span nineteen years.<br /><br />Filled with the political intrigues and conspiracies that abounded in sixteenth century England and Scotland, the book paints a sympathetic portrait of Mary, a queen that ruled with her heart, rather than with her head. She was a woman who was at a disadvantage in negotiating with her cousin, as Elizabeth, unlike Mary, ruled with her head and not with her heart. Elizabeth was very much aware of the political realities of the time and sensitive to Mary's own claim by blood to the English throne, making Mary someone to be kept in check, rather than helped.<br /><br />Based upon actual historical figures and events, the author creates three dimensional characters and infuses them with all the pomp and pageantry of the time. It is a stirringly written narrative that fully engages the reader. Those who love historical fiction, as well as those who have an interest in the life of Mary Stuart, the beleaguered Queen of Scots, will most certainly enjoy this book, as will anyone who simply loves a well written and compelling story.ll most certainly enjoy this book, as will anyone who simply loves a well written and compelling story.	2003-07-23
1037749:US	49355567	R3MCEI6SHN44ES	0816128375	504004582	The Reluctant Queen	Books	5	0	0	N	N	FASCINATING STORY OF A MOST RELUCTANT QUEEN...	This eighth book in the &quot;Queens of England&quot; series by the author, a master storyteller also known to her legion of fans as Victoria Holt, focuses on the life of Anne of York, the daughter of the Earl of Warwick. She went on to become Queen of England as the wife of King Richard III. Her story, told in a first person narrative, is an absorbing work of historical fiction.<br />The War of Roses had ended and the great Earl of Warwick, the richest and most powerful lord in England, was known as \\"The Kingmaker\\". The Earl had ensured the coronation of the former Duke of York as King Edward IV, after having deposed mad King Henry VI of the house of Lancaster. The Earl of Warwick's family, the Nevilles, was in a position of power. Then, the King married Elizabeth Woodville, and it was the Woodvilles who were in the ascendant and the Nevilles in decline. The Earl of Warwick, who had thought himself to be the power behind the throne, suddenly realized that he had supported a King who had every intention of being his own man. This was a notion that was anathema to Warwick, and he used his two daughters, Isabel and Anne, as pawns in a dangerous game of political intrigue.<br />After her father's death in battle during a political falling out with King Edward IV, Anne went on to marry the love of her life, the King's younger brother, Richard. Through her eyes the reader sees all the political intrigues of the day and the rise and fall of various personages, as the political winds shifted. Despite all of the turbulence around her, Anne and Richard lived many happy years in Northern England, far from the Court of King Edward IV.<br />When the King died, her world radically changed. Richard, who was chosen to be Lord Protector of the Realm by his brother, chose, instead, to declare his nephew, Edward V, illegitimate, and himself the King. What happened to his nephew, Edward V, as well as Edward's younger brother, remains a mystery to this day. Through Anne's eyes, the reader sees Anne view her changing world with dismay and trepidation, as her husband transformed into someone she barely recognized, and she was thrust into a role for which she had no desire, that of Queen of England.<br />This is a wonderfully told work of historical fiction by a superlative storyteller. The reader need not have read the prior volumes in the series before reading this one. Each book in the series stands on its own. The entire series, however, is a must read for all those who enjoy well written, historical fiction.der sees Anne view her changing world with dismay and trepidation, as her husband transformed into someone she barely recognized, and she was thrust into a role for which she had no desire, that of Queen of England.<br />This is a wonderfully told work of historical fiction by a superlative storyteller. The reader need not have read the prior volumes in the series before reading this one. Each book in the series stands on its own. The entire series, however, is a must read for all those who enjoy well written, historical fiction.	2003-07-23
1037901:US	49355567	R38N5NVKW4ODLR	9501500365	340179150	El Leon de Justicia (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	THE MAN WHO WOULD BE KING...	This is the Spanish text edition of the author's second book in the Norman trilogy.  It is an intriguing and well-written work of historical fiction and a wonderful follow-up to the first book in the trilogy, \\"The Bastard King\\".<br /><br />In this second book, the author continues the story of the legacy of William the Conqueror, known as the bastard king. His son, William Rufus, followed him as King of England and his other son, Robert, as Duke of Normandy. The youngest son, Henry, in keeping with the fate of most youngest sons, was left landless and all but penniless. A handsome and shrewd individual with a lawyerlike mind, the Normans called him \\"Henri Beauclerc\\".<br /><br />When William Rufus found himself in the wrong place at the wrong time, his reign was effectively ended. A twist of fate, however, found Henry in the right place at the right time. Having always coveted the throne of England, Henry lost no time in asserting his claim before his older brother, Robert, the Duke of Normandy, could. Thus, began the reign of Henry I of England.<br /><br />Henry married Princess Edith of Scotland whom he had renamed Matilda, so that the Normans might forget her Saxon origins. When his older brother Robert asserted his claim to England, Henry defeated him and took over the Duchy of Normandy. King Henry and Queen Matilda would go on to have two children, William and Matilda, who would bring much joy and much sadness.<br /><br />The author, also known to millions of devoted readers as Victoria Holt, masterfully tells the story of Henry, the man who would be king. She recounts  his life and loves, painting a portrait of a lusty, ambitious, and ruthless man who would brook no opposition. He would leave England a better place for his reign. It is a spellbinding tale, woven with sufficient historical detail so as to make it enjoyable for all those who love historical fiction.	2003-07-23
1038126:US	49355567	RJL4X8K6KZRIK	1841953903	707237856	High Exposure	Books	5	5	6	N	N	CLIMB EVERY MOUNTAIN...	This is a terrific book which draws you into David Breashears' world. You follow his development from young rock climber to world class mountaineer and filmmaker. You also see his development as a person, all while drawing you into that exclusive club of mountaineers. He makes you feel his passion for the mountains he so loves. You learn how he combined that passion with the art of cinematography, making him an award winning filmmaker.<br />You live through the 1996 tragedy on Everest with him, and feel the compassion that he has for those who died on the mountain under such tragic circumstances. The narrative is always compelling and informative, making the book a hard one to put down. His compassion and sensitivity towards those who did not fare well on the ill-fated 1996 Everest climb is palpable, and for his assistance to those who needed it, even though it put him and his expedition in jeopardy, he is truly an unsung hero. This is, without a doubt, a man who leads by example.<br />David Breashears writes beautifully of his experiences and his book is a must read for all climbing enthusiasts, as well as for those simply interested in the human condition. This is a book that is simply too good to pass up.	2003-07-23
1038141:US	49355567	RARI4C0JI3MNL	9501501302	80314020	La Guerra de Las Reinas (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	THE ENGLISH DOWAGER QUEEN VERSUS THE FRENCH DOWAGER QUEEN..	In this, her fifth book in the Plantagenet series, Jean Plaidy, renowned writer of historical fiction also known to her devoted fans as Victoria Holt, tackles the two most powerful women of the early thirteenth century, Isabella of Angouleme, the Dowager Queen of England, and Blanche, the Dowager Queen of France.<br /><br />The heartbreakingly beautiful and sensual Isabella, a woman with little motherly instincts, had been married to King John of England, the most depraved, dissolute, and evil tyrant ever to rule over England, when she was just a child of twelve. John had been the youngest son of Eleanor of Aquitaine and King Henry II of England. Unfortunately, he did not follow in the footsteps of his father in terms of his ability to govern his widespread kingdom. When John died a mysterious death, both Isabella and England were freed from his tyranny, and his and Isabella's eldest son, though a mere boy of nine at the time, became King Henry III of England. Isabella was now the Dowager Queen of England.<br /><br />Meanwhile, across the English Channel in France, Blanche, the granddaughter of Eleanor of Aquitaine and King Henry II of England,  had married Louis VIII of France. Her grandmother, Eleanor of Aquitaine, had handpicked her for that explicit purpose, as Eleanor had sensed in Blanche one such as she, a person with the wit and drive to be a strong queen.  The marriage of Blanche and Louis had been a happy one, until an untimely death took Louis, who had been a well-meaning, though weak, king. Their handsome son, Louis, would become King Louis IX of France at the age of twelve. The beautiful Blanche, a virtuous and regal woman, was now the Dowager Queen of France.<br /><br />When Isabella and Blanche would meet, it was clear that neither woman had much love for the other. When King John of England died, Isabella remarried Count Hugh of Lusignan, the man to whom she had originally been betrothed a lifetime ago, before King John had abducted her and made her his child bride. The fact that Joanna, her daughter with John, was now betrothed to Hugh did not deter Isabella from her determination to marry her first love. So, in addition to being the Dowager Queen of England, Isabella became a Countess through her marriage to Hugh, who was a vassal of France.<br /><br />This was an untenable situation for Isabella, who despised Blanche and refused to give her and her son the homage that they were due. Isabella ruled her husband Hugh through her ability to provide many amorous and sensuous delights, causing him to commit many grave errors in judgment that were to cause much disharmony in his life. Isabella was single-minded in her determination to cause Blanche as much trouble as possible. She plotted and intrigued against the French crown and no perfidy was too great, encouraging her son, Henry, to try to regain the lands that his father, King John, had recklessly lost to the French.  Blanche, however, was not oblivious to Isabella's hatred of her and, being a clever woman, made the necessary moves to keep her in check. One day, however, Isabella went too far and attempted the ultimate act of treason. It was an act that was to cause the tempestuous Isabella of Angouleme to come to an ignominious end.<br /><br />This is the Spanish text edition of a well-written and interesting work of historical fiction, revolving around two women who wielded a great deal of influence in early thirteenth century England and France. Replete with historical detail, the author paints a living picture of the political intrigues of the day. Historical figures are made three dimensional, adding a vibrancy to this enjoyable book, which those who love historical fiction of this period should enjoy.his child bride. The fact that Joanna, her daughter with John, was now betrothed to Hugh did not deter Isabella from her determination to marry her first love. So, in addition to being the Dowager Queen of England, Isabella became a Countess through her marriage to Hugh, who was a vassal of France.<br /><br />This was an untenable situation for Isabella, who despised Blanche and refused to give her and her son the homage that they were due. Isabella ruled her husband Hugh through her ability to provide many amorous and sensuous delights, causing him to commit many grave errors in judgment that were to cause much disharmony in his life. Isabella was single-minded in her determination to cause Blanche as much trouble as possible. She plotted and intrigued against the French crown and no perfidy was too great, encouraging her son, Henry, to try to regain the lands that his father, King John, had recklessly lost to the French.  Blanche, however, was not oblivious to Isabella's hatred of her and, being a clever woman, made the necessary moves to keep her in check. One day, however, Isabella went too far and attempted the ultimate act of treason. It was an act that was to cause the tempestuous Isabella of Angouleme to come to an ignominious end.<br /><br />This is the Spanish text edition of a well-written and interesting work of historical fiction, revolving around two women who wielded a great deal of influence in early thirteenth century England and France. Replete with historical detail, the author paints a living picture of the political intrigues of the day. Historical figures are made three dimensional, adding a vibrancy to this enjoyable book, which those who love historical fiction of this period should enjoy.	2003-07-23
1038251:US	49355567	R2ZTH9PIZV0QRB	0330201972	776696576	The Royal Road to Fotheringay	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	MARY...MARY...QUITE CONTRARY...	This is a wonderful, captivating work of historical fiction. Weaving a spellbinding tale out of a tapestry of actual events, the author, Victoria Holt, writing under one of several pen names that she used, recounts the tragic and dramatic tale of Mary Stuart, Queen of Scots.<br />Born in Scotland, Mary, whose father, the King of Scotland, died when she was very young, was an only child. Her father's death left her mother, Marie De Guise of France, to rule as Regent in Scotland for her daughter. A wily woman, Marie saw danger to her daughter, if she remained in Scotland. So, she had Mary betrothed to Francois, the Dauphin of France, and sent her at a very young age to live in the French Court.<br />A happy, pleasing, and bonnie child, Mary matured into a beautiful young woman and eventually married the Dauphin. After the unexpected death of the King, she and Francois went on to reign as King and Queen of France. Alas, her happiness was short lived, as Francois was sickly and in poor health. After his premature death, there was no place for Mary in the court of her brother-in-law, Charles, the succeeding French King, thanks to the machinations of her evil mother-in-law, Catherine D'Medici.<br />Mary then did the only thing left to do. She set sail for Scotland under the protection of border lord, James Hepburn, the Earl of Bothwell, to reclaim her kingdom as its anointed Queen. Her mother, Marie De Guise, now dead, the Catholic Mary was faced with reclaiming a Protestant kingdom that she had not seen for many years, a kingdom over which her half brother, the illegitimate and Protestant James, meant to rule himself, irrespective of his illegitimate birth.<br />Little did Mary know of the travails that would await her. A quarrelsome group of lords and nobles, whose perfidy, deceit, and ruthless jockeying for power knew no bounds, would plague her brief reign. They would plot against her with her Protestant cousin in England, Elizabeth I, a Queen who ruled with her head and not with her heart. Mary's half brother, James, whose naked ambition was to wear the crown himself, was determined that Mary would be Queen in name only. He would stop at nothing to secure that which he felt was his by right, if not by birth. John Knox, a fire and brimstone religious fanatic, who held Scotland in his thrall, denounced the Catholic Mary at every opportunity, proclaiming her a wanton and rebuffing her overtures and requests for religious tolerance. This is what awaited Mary in Scotland, a harsh and most inhospitable land.<br />This woman, who would be Queen, eventually decided to marry again and made the greatest mistake of all in electing to marry the young and dissolute Lord Henry Darnley, an English Catholic. Though royal by birth, he would eventually bring nothing but shame upon her, plotting against her and those loyal to her. Darnley was the catalyst for some of the greatest scandals in the history of Scotland. Notwithstanding Darnley's perfidy, Mary did her duty and, having been delivered of an infant son fathered by Darnley, provided Scotland with an heir to the throne. She eventually became nothing more than a pawn in the ambitions of men, pitting Mary's half brother, James, now the Earl of Moray, against James, the Earl of Bothwell, one of Darnley's alleged murderers and Mary's seducer. It would be a fight to the finish.<br />With Darnley having died under mysterious circumstances and her passions now aroused, Mary married the Earl of Bothwell, much to the outrage of all of Scotland, and together incurred the enmity of many of the lords and nobles. This would lead to Bothwell's exile and captivity in Denmark, while Mary would flee to England, hoping to meet with Elizabeth and obtain her help in securing her kingdom. Instead, she would remain her cousin Elizabeth's captive for twenty years, being moved from castle to castle, as Mary's Catholic supporters plotted over the years to restore her kingdom to her.<br />Finally, these plots included the throne of England, and Elizabeth could no longer close her eyes to the threat that her still living cousin, Mary, an anointed Catholic Queen with a claim to the throne of Protestant England, presented. For her alleged treason, Mary would be tried, and the castle at Fotheringay would be the end of the line for her in the land in which twenty years earlier she had unwisely sought succor.<br />This is a spellbinding story, told with an infusion of historical detail. Those interested in the story of Mary, Queen of Scots, will, undoubtedly, enjoy this work of historical fiction. It is a fascinating tale of a historical figure whose life remains an intriguing enigma even today.ded the throne of England, and Elizabeth could no longer close her eyes to the threat that her still living cousin, Mary, an anointed Catholic Queen with a claim to the throne of Protestant England, presented. For her alleged treason, Mary would be tried, and the castle at Fotheringay would be the end of the line for her in the land in which twenty years earlier she had unwisely sought succor.<br />This is a spellbinding story, told with an infusion of historical detail. Those interested in the story of Mary, Queen of Scots, will, undoubtedly, enjoy this work of historical fiction. It is a fascinating tale of a historical figure whose life remains an intriguing enigma even today.	2003-07-23
1038366:US	49355567	R3EU6HP1JEVGV9	8466305130	879196477	El coleccionista de huesos (The Bone Collector) (Punto de Lectura) (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	NO BONE TO PICK WITH THE BONE COLLECTOR...	This is an especially suspenseful thriller made more so by the personal angst of the main character, Lincoln Rhyme. A quadriplegic, forensic ex-detective for the New York City Police Department, Rhyme is brought out of retirement by the police department to assist them in the apprehension of an apparently psychopathic killer who is loose on the streets of New York.<br />The forays into bits of arcane New York history, as well as the sleuthing done almost entirely through the application of forensics and deductive reasoning, make for a very interesting read. While at times it seems that no one could be as uncannily accurate as Rhyme in deciphering the meaning of the physical evidence, this contrivance does serve to move the plot along. With the story line so engrossing and the crime scenes horrific, as well as ingenious, it is the kind of book that is hard to put down, because you simply cannot wait to see what happens. The surprise ending is the icing on the cake.<br />Assisting Rhyme with his work is Police Officer Sachs who, while not as compelling a character as Rhyme, is essential to the story. It is her character who does the 'heavy lifting' so to speak. Highly intelligent and resourceful, with an innate appreciation of the importance of physical evidence, she inspects and preserves the crime scenes, as well as gathers the physical evidence from which Rhyme ultimately weaves his magic. She also serves as somewhat of a Deus Ex Machina in that she saves the day in more ways than one.<br />Sachs is a wonderful foil for Rhyme in that she runs hot to his cold. She is driven by her desire to help others, as well as by her own personal demons, while he is ever the calm, cool, collected clinician, whose desire to preserve a crime scene may supercede the milk of human kindness latent within his emotionally atrophied soul. The personal connection that Rhyme ultimately develops with Officer Sachs is one that leaves you hoping that they will be teamed up again in yet another novel.er novel.	2003-07-23
1038604:US	49355567	R1LAVDLEMK1FH8	0399138730	37552109	Katharine the Virgin Widow	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	THE EARLY TRIALS AND TRIBULATIONS OF KATHERINE OF ARAGON...	In this, the first book in the Katherine of Aragon trilogy, the author, Jean Plaidy, also known to her legion of fans as Victoria Holt, writes about young Katherine of Aragon, who as the Infanta of Spain was betrothed to marry the sickly son of the parsimonious King Henry VII, Arthur, the Prince of Wales.<br />This marriage was a politically expedient one, meant to ally Spain and England. When Arthur dies shortly after their marriage, he leaves behind a virgin widow, as their marriage had never been consummated. This book chronicles the travails of the widowed Katherine, who languished in the court of her father-in-law, treated as an unnecessary appendage, only to be turned out of the palace to live as an unwanted poor relation.<br />Living in penurious conditions in England, ill befitting a princess of Spain, she waits for her fortunes to change. When her beloved mother and only hope of respite, Queen Isabella of Castile, dies, Katherine is bereft, knowing that her father, King Ferdinand of Aragon, will do only what is politically expedient and leave her to her own devices. She is ultimately betrothed to Arthur's younger brother, Henry, only to find that as the time for the marriage to take place draws near, King Henry VII is maneuvering to make a more advantageous marriage for his son.<br />Reliance upon her sister, Juana, who is now Queen of Castile, to help Katherine settle her precarious situation is misplaced, for Juana, married to Phillip the Handsome, has mental health issues. After the premature death of her husband, her behavior greatly deteriorates, and she becomes known as Juana the Mad with good reason.<br />The book artfully details the hopefulness of a young Katherine, as she is married to Arthur, as well as the early sufferings of the widowed Katherine at the hands of King Henry VII. The book also offers an intriguing glimpse into the life of Katherine's older sister, Juana the Mad, as well as the Spanish and English intrigues of the day. This is a well written account of the early life of Katherine of Aragon in the English Court, whose fortunes dramatically changed upon the death of King Henry VII, when Henry VIII chose to honor his betrothal to her and make her his wife.ell written account of the early life of Katherine of Aragon in the English Court, whose fortunes dramatically changed upon the death of King Henry VII, when Henry VIII chose to honor his betrothal to her and make her his wife.	2003-07-23
1050625:US	49355567	R2UR78MAQOZI3Q	0449221547	945744777	The Lost Queen	Books	5	26	26	N	Y	DAZZLING...A SPELLBINDING WORK OF HISTORICAL FICTION...	This is a well-written work of historical fiction that will keep the reader riveted to its pages until the very end. It tells the story of Princess Caroline Mathilde of England, sister to King George III. At the age of fifteen she was wed to young King Christian VII, who eventually became known as the mad king  of Denmark.  Temperamental, high strung, and given to strange outbursts, his predilection for strange behavior was known early on, but despite this, the two kingdoms would still see these two wed, as the unification of  England and Denmark was paramount to individual happiness.<br /><br />King Christian VII developed a peculiar aversion to his wife and, consequently had conjugal relations with her only once, which propitiously resulted in the birth of a son nine months later. Alone in a foreign country, whose language she was only beginning to learn, and estranged from a King surrounded by sycophants, the young Queen gravitated to the one person who treated her as a person in her own right, the King's physician, Johann Struensee.<br /><br />An advocate of the philosophy of Enlightenment that was overtaking Europe, Struensee had many ideas that were introduced as reforms in Denmark, through his influence with the King, who by now was easily led. These reforms were to make many enemies for him,  as they upset the established feudal system  that  still existed in eighteenth century Denmark at the time. As he gained power through his influence, resentment against him grew within those circles that had formerly been close to the King. Unaware of the growing animosity against him,  Struensee and the Queen became close intimates, bound by shared ideas and interests.<br /><br />Struensee's relationship with the Queen, who was lonely and starved for affection, eventually transgressed the bounds set by propriety.  Now lovers in fact, their relationship became grist for the rumor mill. As gossip and innuendo about their relationship swirled across royal circles in Europe, it ultimately became the focal point for a political coup that saw them both arrested and charged with treason. What ultimately happened to each of them was tragic.<br /><br />This is a richly atmospheric work of historical fiction, filled with political intrigue, historical personages and events, as well as a bittersweet and poignant romance that was to have so many personal and political ramifications. It is a well told story that will hold the reader in its thrall until the very last page is turned.e, it ultimately became the focal point for a political coup that saw them both arrested and charged with treason. What ultimately happened to each of them was tragic.<br /><br />This is a richly atmospheric work of historical fiction, filled with political intrigue, historical personages and events, as well as a bittersweet and poignant romance that was to have so many personal and political ramifications. It is a well told story that will hold the reader in its thrall until the very last page is turned.	2003-07-13
1050726:US	49355567	R21K8TTLQM2WH0	1573225789	991280088	The Color of Water: A Black Man's Tribute to His White Mother	Books	5	133	138	N	N	A TRIBUTE TO MOM...	This book is, indeed, a tribute to the author's mother. In it, the author, a man whose mother was white and his father black, tells two stories: that of his mother and his own. Tautly written in spare, clear prose, it is a wonderful story of a bi-racial family who succeeded and achieved the American dream, despite the societal obstacles placed in its way.<br /><br />The author's mother was a Polish Orthodox Jew who migrated to America at the age of two with her family  during the early nineteen twenties. They ultimately settled down in Virginia, where she led an isolated and lonely life; shunned by whites because she was Jewish and shunned by blacks because she was white. She was raised in a predominantly black neighborhood, where her father, a despicable and harsh man who brutalized his handicapped wife, ran a local grocery store, where he priced gouged his black clientele.<br /><br />She left home and moved to New York when she was nineteen and never looked back. She met and married the author's father, a black man, when mixed race marriages were still frowned upon by both whites and blacks. Still, she always felt more comfortable around blacks than around whites. When he died sixteen years later, she married another black man who nurtured her eight children by the author's father and proceeded to give her four more children.<br /><br />The author tells of his childhood, of his family, and of the issue of race that ultimately colored his life while growing up in predominantly black neighborhoods, where his mother stood out like a sore thumb because of the color of her skin. It was always an issue his mother avoided discussing with him, as for her it was not an issue. It was not until the author wrote this book that his mother discussed the issue of race within the context of her own life.  From this dialogue emerges a fascinating look at the issues of race, as well as religion, and how it impacts on an individual's identity within our race conscious society.<br /><br />It is also a very personal story. While the author's family was economically disadvantaged, his eccentric and  independent mother always stressed education. She was a strict disciplinarian who brooked no nonsense from her twelve children. A convert to Christianity through her first husband, with whom she founded a Baptist church, she provided her children with the will to succeed.  Consequently, all twelve eventually went to college and did her proud.<br /><br />The story of this unique family is told from two distinct, parallel perspectives: that of the author and that of his mother. While both are interesting, it is his mother's story that dominates this beautifully written book, which is, indeed, a tribute to her. It is truly a story told from the heart, as the love that the author has for his mother is evident with every written word.<br />It is also a very personal story. While the author's family was economically disadvantaged, his eccentric and  independent mother always stressed education. She was a strict disciplinarian who brooked no nonsense from her twelve children. A convert to Christianity through her first husband, with whom she founded a Baptist church, she provided her children with the will to succeed.  Consequently, all twelve eventually went to college and did her proud.<br /><br />The story of this unique family is told from two distinct, parallel perspectives: that of the author and that of his mother. While both are interesting, it is his mother's story that dominates this beautifully written book, which is, indeed, a tribute to her. It is truly a story told from the heart, as the love that the author has for his mother is evident with every written word.	2003-07-13
1060872:US	49355567	R20USVLYUESQPT	0451401069	291612741	The Magic Cottage	Books	5	6	6	N	N	GHOSTIES AND BEASTIES AND THINGS THAT GO BUMP IN THE NIGHT..	An attractive young couple is looking for an attractive little house. An attractive little house is looking for the perfect couple. When Midge and Mike find Gramarye, a darling, quaint little cottage in the English countryside, it is as if a spell had been cast upon them. They purchase this little cottage in the middle of nowhere, after a rather unusual negotiation.<br />Warm and cozy, with an inviting air, Granmarye is everything of which they ever dreamed, and they thrive in its salubrious atmosphere. The days never seemed brighter, nor the nights more romantic. The local flower and fauna around the cottage seem to blossom right before their very eyes. The small animals in the woods seem especially friendly, as do its birds, and they all seem to want to pay a call at the cottage. It is as if the house had a positive psychic energy of its own. It is as if it were a fairytale come true.<br />Midge and Mike discover that Granmarye's former owner, an elderly woman, had a reputation as a healer. They also discover that a local cult lives not far from them and that its members are reviled by the nearby townspeople. They meet a few of these so called cult members, and they do seem a tad peculiar. They also appear to be quite nervous when visiting Midge and Mike. The cult's leader, however, seems to want to visit very badly. Midge does not mind, but Mike has certain reservations, as there is something about that cult that just does not sit right with him.<br />Slowly, a shift in the atmosphere in the cottage takes place. As the tension in the book increases, strange and creepy things begin to occur in the cottage. A change in its psychic energy is beginning to take place, replete with a mysterious figure in the woods. Slowly but surely, Midge's and Mike's paradise on earth starts to become a living hell.  Spooky, mysterious, and, alternately, charming and chilling, this is one of author's best books.	2003-07-05
1061461:US	49355567	R3MOR9BYK52UJO	0140071075	887689385	We Have Always Lived in the Castle	Books	3	3	10	N	N	A DYSFUNCTIONAL FAMILY CARRIES ON...	This story revolves around a family that has sustained a major tragedy. Apparently, most of the family was murdered at supper one day via the introduction of arsenic into their food. Only three family members survive, sisters Constance and Mary Catherine Blackwood, and their elderly Uncle Julian. Constance, who always cooked for her family, was charged with their murder but aquitted at trial. The surviving three Blackwoods now live in splendid isolation in their mansion, as they are reviled by the villagers.<br /><br />Mary Catherine, the younger sister known affectionately as Merricat, is a strange girl. Bright, imaginative, and compulsive, she has an assortment of rituals that she carries out in her daily activities, which are somewhat limited. She rarely ventures beyond the curtilage of her stately home, except for trepidaciously entering the village to get necessary supplies. Her sister Constance, however, never ventures beyond the immediate perimeter of her home, though this is clearly something that she wishes to do. Uncle Julian is an invalid, living out his remaining days trying to figure out the mystery behind what had happened to his family that caused them all to be poisoned.<br /><br />They are truly alone, except for the rare visitors who knew their family prior to the tragedy that took place. Even these few visits are almost too much for them. Still, Constance does her best to entertain them, although Merricat clearly wishes they would not come. Their highly structured world, however, is slowly torn apart, when Charles, a cousin, comes to visit them. He inveigles and tantalizes Constance with visions of having a normal life. Needless to say, Merricat and Charles do not get along, as she perceives him to be the enemy, seeking to disrupt her orderly, though dysfunctional, world.<br /><br />The writing style is spare, taut, and, at times, quite compelling, as well as darkly humourous. Still, what happens to Constance and Merricat is no real surprise. What is problematic is one never really understands what makes Constance tick nor what makes Merricat do what she does. There is no resolution in the book, leaving the reader to fill in the blanks.<br /><br />While I admit that I am in the minority, as I found this book to be a little disappointing, I do I find it hard to believe that Time magazine, at one time, had named it one of the ten best novels of the year. While this a moderately enjoyable work, readers would do better to seek out Ms. Jackson's dazzling story, \\"The Lottery\\", a much better, and more satisfying, book.is problematic is one never really understands what makes Constance tick nor what makes Merricat do what she does. There is no resolution in the book, leaving the reader to fill in the blanks.<br /><br />While I admit that I am in the minority, as I found this book to be a little disappointing, I do I find it hard to believe that Time magazine, at one time, had named it one of the ten best novels of the year. While this a moderately enjoyable work, readers would do better to seek out Ms. Jackson's dazzling story, \\"The Lottery\\", a much better, and more satisfying, book.	2003-07-04
1068084:US	49355567	R1O44AU2C7LML9	0375704965	483020941	A Judgement in Stone	Books	5	38	39	N	N	A BRILLIANT STUDY OF THE SOCIOPATHIC MIND...	This is one of Ruth Rendell's earlier works and, perhaps, one of her best. More of a novella, rather than a full fledged novel, by virtue of its brevity, it is absolutely brilliant, well-written, and gripping from the get go. Ms. Rendell captures the reader with her first sentence, \\"Eunice Parchman killed the Coverdale family because she could not read or write.\\"<br /><br />This is a descriptive and insightful literary stunner about how an illiterate, middle aged women gets to the point that she wipes out an enire family one fateful evening. The book takes the reader, step by step, through the events that lead up to this crossroad. It explores the mind of Eunice Parchman, a woman so limited in her world view and so robotic in her actions that she is almost repellent. The reader marvels at her very existence and is sure to find her a fascinating character study.<br /><br />Ms. Parchman's interactions with the well-educated Coverdale family, who employs her as a housekeeper, are intriguing and always interesting, as she struggles to keep her illiteracy a secret. How Ms. Parchman circumvents its discovery for as long as does, the lengths to which she goes to maintain a facade of literacy, and her socially inappropriate responses to every day situations, paint an intriguing psychological portrait for the reader. The eventual discovery of her illiteracy results in a ghastly outcome, which makes for some gripping and chilling reading.<br /><br />Ms. Rendell is masterful in her storytelling, infusing mundane situations with an understated horror that is all the more chilling because of the common denominator that strikes a chord with the reader. Written is well-nuanced, taut, spare style, this book is a literary gem that will keep the reader riveted to its pages. Bravo!	2003-06-29
1068196:US	49355567	R20NPUUZDVHNMK	156849484X	714085983	Dragonwyck	Books	5	119	125	N	N	A HOUSE IS NOT A HOME...	This is a beautifully written work of historical fiction, set in 1840s New York. It focuses on a young  Connecticut woman, Miranda Wells,  who sees a change in her station in life through a chance invitation by a wealthy distant cousin.  Handsome, gallant, and a renaissance man in terms of his interests, Nicholas Van Ryn invites his young cousin to visit and stay at his lavish home in upstate Hudson,  New York and act as a companion for his young daughter.<br />When she meets him for the first time, Miranda is smitten, as Nicholas is the embodiment of all her romantic yearnings. Moreover, her stay at his luxurious, palatial  home on the Hudson River, a mansion with the fanciful name of Dragonwyck, is an answer to her prayers and a chance to escape the hard work and tedium that has been her lot on her family's Connecticut farm. Dragonwyck, however, has its share of secrets and a miasma of evil that lurks in its halls and grand rooms.<br />The only thorn in Miranda's side is her cousin's wife, Johanna, who does not care for having a younger, more attractive woman, bustling about the house and preening before her husband. Johanna finds ways to make her feelings understood by Miranda, but Miranda, reckless in her admiration for her cousin Nicholas and relatively naive, is somewhat obtuse. Moreover, there is a pre-existing undercurrent of tension  between husband and wife in the Dragonwyck household of which Miranda is seemingly oblivious.<br />Miranda's presence exacerbates the tension in the household that, ultimately,  ends in tragedy for all concerned. It is that tragedy that will, for Miranda, mark the beginning of a  life journey that will provide some painful and unsettling lessons. It is a journey that will ensure a measure of painful self-discovery and remove the rose colored glasses through which she had viewed her world.<br />The book is well researched and redolent with information about the Dutch influence in New York and its aristocracy. It details many of the issues and traditions that were germane to the period and is richly descriptive of a way of life in New York, both downstate and upstate, that has since gone by the wayside. It intertwines a number of historical events and personages with the lives of those characters who are at the heart of this wonderful and vastly entertaining book. It is a book that will keep the reader turning the pages until the very last.the issues and traditions that were germane to the period and is richly descriptive of a way of life in New York, both downstate and upstate, that has since gone by the wayside. It intertwines a number of historical events and personages with the lives of those characters who are at the heart of this wonderful and vastly entertaining book. It is a book that will keep the reader turning the pages until the very last.	2003-06-29
1068385:US	49355567	R2J1WK8FE7P4MT	0349101760	772203017	Heat and Dust (Abacus Books)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	THE HEAT OF THE ROMANCE...THE DUST OF ITS ASHES...	Winner of the 1975 Booker Prize, this is a well-written book that explores Anglo-Indian relations through the power of romance. Set in two distinct eras, colonial India of the nineteen twenties, during the time of the Raj, and the independent, freewheeling India of the seventies, during the time when India was a mecca for disenfranchised youth, it tells the story of two women.<br />One story is that of Olivia, the wife of a minor district official in colonial India, who in 1923 caused great scandal by running off with the Nawab, a local Indian prince. Divorced by her husband, Douglas, for this scandalous transgression, Olivia remains in India, while Douglas remarries. The second story is that of the narrator, a descendant of Douglas and his second wife. During the nineteen seventies, fascinated by the story of the now deceased Olivia, she goes to India, visiting those locations where Olivia had lived and those which would have been a part of her existence at the time. As did Olivia, she falls under India's spell. As did Olivia, she, too, has an Anglo-Indian love affair, and picks up where Olivia left off, giving the reader a powerful sense of de-ja vu.<br />The book is a beguiling story of two women from two different generations who come under the spell of India. The book is evocative of British colonial India, as well as of India of the nineteen seventies. During both eras, Anglo-Indian relations are pivotal to the budding romances. The book is evocative of the rhythms of Indian life in all its richness and tumultuousness, as well as its lingering poverty and superstitions. It is redolent of a time gone by and hopeful of what is to come. It is also an interesting dichotomy of the good and bad in both cultures, Anglo and Indian, and the influence that both cultures have on these two women, who are so different, yet so alike.<br />This is a book that whets the appetite, leaving the reader wanting more than the author is prepared to give. It is, nonetheless, a book well worth reading. The book was also made into a Merchant Ivory film starring Julie Christie and Greta Scacchi.ell worth reading. The book was also made into a Merchant Ivory film starring Julie Christie and Greta Scacchi.	2003-06-29
1080704:US	49355567	R9ZVJK5M0UWHC	015135300X	532488592	Ghost Fox	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	WHEN WORLDS COLLIDE....	This is a captivating story that will appeal to those who love well-written historical fiction. The author has a decided flair for epic storytelling, as the reader will be riveted to this wonderfully told tale of abduction, slavery, and love. It is the story of Sarah Wells, a seventeen year old settler from the colony of New Hampshire, who is forcibly captured by a party of Abnaki Indians, sympathetic to the French, during the time of the French and Indian Wars.<br /><br />Taken to their village where she is made to live the life of a slave, Sarah develops a loving relationship with Taliwan, the gentle son of the old Abnaki Indian woman to whom she had been given in slavery. It is her relationship with Taliwan that would eventually become a pivotal one in her life.<br /><br />The book is rich in the details of her life with the Abnaki, ground in the context of the times and the French and Indian Wars. It is the story of two worlds and the ways that Sarah Wells finds to straddle both. She ultimately must choose, however, one over the other. It is a choice that will eventually be a test her love.<br /><br />This is an action packed story that will keep the reader turning the pages  of the book until the very last.  I loved this book when I first read it about twenty five years ago. In reading it again, time has not diminished this wonderfully told story.	2003-06-20
1082079:US	49355567	R3EONQ36O8FV16	0451400569	563682613	Moon	Books	3	1	2	N	Y	NOTHING TO MOON OVER...	Having read \\"The Fog\\", an absolutely terrific book by this author, I looked forward to reading this one. I am sorry to say that this book does not even begin to compare to \\"The Fog\\", a book that is superior in every way to this effort.<br />The plot is simple. A schoolteacher, Jonathan Childes, has certain psychic abilities over which he has little control. He can apparently meld his mind with that of a sadistic killer. Unfortunately for him, this killer is aware of Childes' mental intrusion and deduces who and where Childes is.<br />Some tension is created by having Childes become a suspect in a series of murders of which Childes is aware due to his mind meld with the actual killer. His knowledge is a double edged sword. The killer then decides to bring his handiwork a little too close to home for Childes' tastes, and the plot thickens.<br />This book is mildly entertaining at best, as the tension does not really hold up.  Moreover, the ending is somewhat ridiculous and disappointing, reminiscent of a promise unfulfilled.  The author is certainly capable of better.  If one is looking for a book of unrelenting horror, then this is not the book for which one is looking. It is more of a murder mystery with supernatural overtones, and a somewhat mediocre one, at that.	2003-06-19
1082123:US	49355567	R3DXU0DVSU7C6P	0671810464	257845201	MRS BARTHELM MADNS	Books	4	1	1	N	N	THINGS ARE NOT ALWAYS WHAT THEY SEEM....	When Rachel Barthelme has a car accident one  Halloween night in which she believes her car hits a young child,  a group of frighteningly masked youths surround her, including a girl who shouts to her that she has killed her brother. Frightened by their hideous visages and believing they are out to harm her, she flees the scene of the accident and runs for her life, calling the police the minute she gets home.<br />The problem is that the police fail to turn up any such victim. Rachel, however, remains convinced that this occurred, despite no evidence to support her assertion. With her marriage failing and her ambitious husband believing that she is losing her mind, Rachel begins to question her own sanity.  Complicating matters further is her new born baby, who keeps her tethered to her loveless marriage.<br />As her teenage children become friends with two teens with strange ideas that give her the willies, she finds that something about each of them seems strangely familiar in an unpleasant way. She also finds herself reliving the accident, as she continues to find herself haunted by brief glimpses of those youths she believed to have been there. It is as if they were stalking her.  Moreover, Rachel seems to be falling in love with a police lieutenant, Sam Lomax, who is investigating the matter of the accident and seems to be the only person really listening to her.<br />This is a suspenseful, well written work of fiction, with enough twists and turns to keep the reader guessing.	2003-06-19
1082255:US	49355567	R2EN2V4HB5MX6R	0385035608	728373438	Hauntings: Is there anybody there?	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A  COLLECTION OF CREEPY HAUNTED HOUSE STORIES...	Ms. Lofts is a best selling author of romantic suspense  and well-written historical fiction. In a preamble to this book, Ms. Lofts declares that she is a devotee of ghost stories and houses. This book is her manifestation of that interest. Ms. Lofts expertly melds her two passions, creating a crisp, creepy collection of short stories with a haunted house theme that will keep the reader turning the pages. Well-written and often chilling, they are certainly well worth reading.	2003-06-19
1082448:US	49355567	R2SDA5PO30LGB7	0963784609	877069990	Sacred Prey	Books	3	1	1	N	N	REPLAY IS SOMETIMES THE ONLY WAY TO REDEMPTION...	This is a novel with an intriguing premise. It details the story of a wealthy, prominent business man, Adam Claiborne, who has a loan sharking sideline for which he is the brains and his brother, Kyle, is the brawn. Adam shells out cash to those unfortunates who are unable to secure a loan through more legitimate means. Kyle is the collector who enforces a draconian repayment plan.<br /><br />Adam is also an unhappily married family man and a devout Catholic, who routinely gets absolution from his parish priest for his inevitable sins, including murder, in connection with his thriving loan sharking operation. When his regular parish priest becomes unavailable, a new priest refuses to follow suit, until Adam has had an opportunity to walk in the shoes of his victims.<br /><br />Adam awakens the next morning only to find himself in the body of Charlie Sinclair, one of three victims he had just killed two days before. He soon realizes that time has been rolled back three days, time in which he must find a way to forestall the events that he knows lie ahead. As he relives the experiences of Charlie Sinclair, his old self, Adam, is also reliving the events.<br /><br />The plot, while intriguing, fails to answer some important question. If the soul of Adam is now in Charlie's body, whose soul is in Adam's body? It is ostensibly that of Adam, but how can his soul be in two bodies at once? Moreover, what has happened to Charlie's soul in the interim? I also found myself confused by the timeline of some of the events. Moreover, while the plot is a compelling one, it suffers due the inartfulness of the author's prose, which is pedestrian and third rate.<br /><br />Still, notwithstanding the stilted prose, identity confusion, and timeline issues that I had, the book is inventive and a moderately suspenseful read. Do yourself a favor, however, and borrow if from the library, rather than buy it.	2003-06-19
1097090:US	49355567	R1NRD5K13G4RAE	0394511611	965422864	Hand-Me-Downs	Books	5	3	4	N	N	MOTHER/DAUGHTER RELATIONSHIPS RUN AMOK....	This is a novel the will keep the reader turning its pages. First published in 1980, the author received glowing reviews, and the book became a Literary Guild selection.  I read it shortly after it was published and  remember having enjoyed it then.  I recently pulled it off my book shelf and decided to read it again.  Am I ever glad that I did, as I enjoyed just as much the second time around. Time has not diminished this well-written novel in terms of its power to entertain the reader.<br />This book is a multi-generational family saga. It begins in Poland, where an ambitious woman named Malka is misunderstood by her family and her community. Forced to marry a man that she does not love, Malka tries to make the most of the hand that she has been dealt. She has a number of children, looking to them for vindication of her ambitions. Unfortunately, Malka has a side of her that is cold and calculating, some might even say evil. When she migrates to America with her husband and children, she sees her dreams and hopes vanish before her very eyes. One by one her children disappear from her life, with the exception of Helen, whom Malka  neglected and ignored her entire life, having deemed her to be ordinary.<br />Helen gets married to a man named Lenny and has three daughters, one of whom reminds her of her mother. This daughter, Marilyn, is reminiscent of Malka in many ways. She is also definitely a Daddy's girl and knows how to play her father like a fiddle, much to Helen's growing consternation.  Helen, however, is more like her mother Malka than she realizes.  This does not bode well for a warm mother/daughter relationship. There is a deep disaffection between these two.  The book details the odd relationship between Helen and Marilyn, as well as the relationship that Helen has with each of her other two daughters, Phyllis and Natalie.  It shows how Helen, as did Malka, would stop at nothing to achieve her ambitions. It also shows how Marilyn comes to terms with being who she is.<br />The book is a funny, clever, and totally enjoyable, bittersweet novel, which  details the ups and downs of this crazy, mixed up family that is like so many other families.who she is.<br />The book is a funny, clever, and totally enjoyable, bittersweet novel, which  details the ups and downs of this crazy, mixed up family that is like so many other families.	2003-06-07
1101548:US	49355567	R3BGVTAZXBE1SK	0451072766	271607635	Smouldering Fires	Books	3	12	12	N	N	TEENAGE ANGST WITH A TWIST...	This book covers some of the territory the author covered in her best selling novel, &quot;Green Darkness&quot;, that of past lives. The trouble is that the author is unable to capture the magic inherent in her best seller. While this well researched book is of some interest, due to its subject matter, there the similarities stop. Those who have read the other will be somewhat disappointed with this readable, though somewhat tepid, fare.<br />Here the book revolves around a young New Englander, Amy Delatour, a teenage girl of French Acadian-English lineage, who often goes into a fugue stage where she believes she is a tormented soul named Ange-Marie, a French Acadian in exile in eighteenth century Connecticut who had been separated from her beloved husband, Paul. The shy and bookish  Amy lives in a state of anguish and uncertainty, until one of her high school teachers, Martin Stone, takes an interest in this unusual, highly intelligent young woman. Together they will try to get at the bottom of her mysterious dream states and her fire phobia.<br />The novel starts out promisingly enough, but it never quite reaches its promise. It has a feel of needing to be further fleshed out. While parts of the book are quite interesting, the reader feels as if one where given a delicious appetizer to tempt the palate, only to find that the main course is not forthcoming. Still, there is enough in this novel to make for a pleasant read. Those who have an interest in past lives regression will surely find this book to be of interest.	2003-06-03
1101634:US	49355567	R3NV5NLQSNJYSL	8478885641	728650061	En edad de merecer/ In the Age to deserve (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	EAST MEETS WEST...	This is the Spanish text edition of an exquisitely written and superlative, multi-generational novel, delicately woven with gossamer threads of human experience. It is a story of human frailties, passions, and cultural traditions. It is a spellbinding tale of several people who become unforgettable to the reader. It is an epic saga of individuals who are connected across time in a way none of them could have foreseen. A wellspring of cultural differences bear upon their futures and send them along paths none of them could have envisioned. It is, above all, a story of forbidden love that would impact on others for generations to come.<br /><br />This is the story of Savitri, a native of India, a Brahmin beauty, a healer, who fell in love with David, the son of the wealthy English family for whom she and her parents worked. Her love for David would remain constant, despite those in her own family who would seek to destroy it.<br /><br />This is the story of David, the English boy who grew up in British colonial India and never forgot his childhood sweetheart, despite the cultural and racial roadblocks placed in his path by those who did not have the gift to look into the soul of another.<br /><br />This is the story of Nat, the boy who straddled two cultures, Indian and English, whose mysterious ancestry threatened to prevent him from being united with the woman who held the key to his heart and soul.<br /><br />This is the story of Saroj, a Guyanese beauty of Indian descent, who wanted to leave the old ways, the ways of mysterious south east Asia, the ways of India, and embrace those of the west, only to find that her soul mate was one in whom both cultures had made peace.<br /><br />This is, above all else, a spellbinding story of love and passion that runs so deep that time would sustain it forever. Underlying this story are the threads of a mystery that are subtly woven into its fabric. This novel is a panoramic and sweeping saga that will cause the reader to be swept away by its depth, its richness of language, and its vividly drawn characters, and descriptive detail. The author, a very gifted writer and talented storyteller, has written a novel that will keep the reader riveted to its pages until the very last.wept away by its depth, its richness of language, and its vividly drawn characters, and descriptive detail. The author, a very gifted writer and talented storyteller, has written a novel that will keep the reader riveted to its pages until the very last.	2003-06-03
1103655:US	49355567	R22HQIUX5XQUAR	0812580370	713206696	The Tomb (Adversary Cycle/Repairman Jack)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A CURSE FROM THE PAST INVADES THE PRESENT...	The horror genre is enriched by this book, which is inventive and original. Though the book is plot, rather than character, driven, it does not suffer for its lack of character development. The reader is kept too busy thinking about the plot to worry unduly about character development. Such is the power of this unusual and compelling horror story.<br /><br />The plot is relatively simple. The horror reaches out across the world from India to the United States. A heinous defilement and murders by British soldiers in a temple in mid-nineteenth century India unleashes a curse that is to follow the descendants of the leader of the attack. Coupled with that curse is an entourage of creatures of unimaginable horror that have once again risen to do the bidding of one who would avenge past wrongs. With great power, however, comes great responsibility.<br /><br />Enter Repairman Jack, a man who works to right what once went wrong and who earns his living by his wits and by his ability to defend himself to the death, if necessary. If one has a problem, he will fix it. When he agrees to help a one-armed Indian gentleman, Kusum Bahkti, retrieve a necklace that is a priceless family heirloom, he soon discovers just how priceless it is.<br /><br />Jack suddenly finds himself thrust into the middle of a series of almost inexplicable events. Besieged by mysterious disappearances, rank odors, unusual substances of Indian origin, he finds that the necklace holds the key to an ancient horror. He then comes up against the most formidable foes he has ever encountered. He must find a way to vanquish these hellish creatures or risk losing those whom he loves.<br /><br />Highly original and inventive, this is a pretty well written horror story that should keep even the most jaded of readers turning its pages. It is also the book that introduced Repairman Jack, a popular character that would go on to have a series of books revolve around him.	2003-06-01
1103698:US	49355567	R3CYSPNGDH6ACO	1587884518	51290485	Writ of Execution (Nina Reilly Series)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	SO SO...	This is a mediocre legal thriller, and my first introduction to this author. While moderately entertaining, I probably will not seek anymore novels by this author, as the writing tends to be pedestrian and formulaic. I also found the character of the attorney, Nina Reilly, to be uninteresting and an embarrassment to women in the legal profession. Perhaps, this was in part due to the fact that I listened to the unabridged audio book, where the reader infused Ms. Reilly's character with a breathy, little girl voice, that made her sound just this side of stupid.<br />Still, the book had its interesting moments. The plot revolves around a young woman, purportedly of Washoe Indian descent,  who  calls herself Jessie Potter and has just won a seven million dollar plus jackpot at a Nevada casino.  She wishes to maintain a low profile, as she has a deep, dark secret, so she retains Ms. Reilly as her attorney, seeking to collect the jackpot, while maintaining her privacy. Unbeknownst to Ms. Reilly and her client, someone else feels entitled to that jackpot and will stop at nothing, not even murder, to get it.<br />In constructing the plot, the author, through one of the secondary characters,  gives an interesting account of how these jackpots are designed to work, as well as a bird's-eye view of the gaming industry. Moreover,  the courtroom scenes are of some interest.  Still, this is not enough to make this a top notch legal thriller, as the writing never rises beyond hack status. The plot was too pat and contrived, at times, and the characters remain two dimensional throughout. I found myself neither caring for nor very much liking any of the characters. This over rated book remains simply a quick, throwaway read.	2003-06-01
1103854:US	49355567	R1ERIV67GHBPYO	0812503751	828500582	Soft and Others	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A LITTLE BIT OF THIS AND THAT....	This is an excellent  compilation of the author's short stories, which were written between 1969 and 1987. The author, who has since gone on to fame and fortune, having written a number of best sellers, among them &quot;The Tomb&quot;, &quot;The Touch&quot;, and &quot;The Keep&quot;,  writes a brief, yet interesting,  introduction to each of the sixteen stories, telling the reader the genesis and history of each one.<br />The stories range from the macabre to the odd, with unexpected twists and turns. These can be categorized as being of the horror genre of fiction.  The book also features some stories that fall squarely into the science fiction genre. No matter the genre, they are all edgy, clever, and clearly a labor of love by the author.  For those unfamiliar with the work of the author, this is an excellent introduction, as these brief, well written stories will give the reader a thirst for more.	2003-06-01
1104077:US	49355567	R1FKOG5R2WI1B3	0241136717	638126890	So Far....	Books	4	18	18	N	N	SO FAR...SO GOOD...	This is a wryly told portrait of a man whose life has had its share of ups and downs.  With his father murdered when he was a very young boy,  and his beloved sister raped and murdered when he was a young man, the author's life tragedies are significant. Yet, so are his successes.<br />This is a man who struggled to come to terms with the harsh blows dealt him in life. He is a man whose coping mechanism led him to abuse drugs and alcohol, addictions that, as a result of his celebrity status,  were to become public and a source of great mortification. Conversely, Kelsey Grammer was also to find great personal success in his life, as an Emmy Award winning star of two hit series, \\"Cheers\\", where he was part of the stellar ensemble, and \\"Frasier\\",  a spin-off of his character in \\"Cheers\\"  and one in which he is the star.<br />Still,  this is a remarkably candid recounting of those events in his life that were painful, as well as of those that brought him joy. Told with intelligence and  wry humor, it is a touching  look at a flawed man who is coming to terms with who he is. While the author does give some details of his professional life, this is not a book about stardom. Rather, it is a book of one man's journey through life, thus far, and his odyssey of self-discovery and acceptance.<br />I  highly recommended that one get the unabridged audio book, which is narrated by Kelsey Grammer himself. While it may be a little hammy from time to time, his narration lends a certain poignancy to his words. His humor also shines through some of the reading, as does his innate intelligence. Those who enjoy memoirs and biographies will certainly enjoy this book.	2003-06-01
1104429:US	49355567	R129GX74XCF0Q3	0451169506	275532963	Fasten Your Seatbelts: The Passionate Life of Bette Davis (Signet)	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	MORE THAN A BIT OF BETTE...	As a big Bette Davis fan, I looked forward to reading this biography of her, particularly as it had been written by an individual who had also been a film critic. I was not disappointed. This is a very well researched, extensive book of the life of Bette Davis, her relationships, and her body of work. The author takes the reader through her early beginnings in Lowell, Massachusetts to her last breath in Paris, France.  It is evident that for the author this was a labor of love.<br />Given the author's own connection to the film world, as well as the fact that he, himself, is a big fan of  Ms. Davis, much of his writing is peppered with interesting insider information. It is the culmination of an amazing forty three years of research. Being a member of the cognoscenti, the author provides a great deal of colorful background that fleshes out her life, grounding it in the context of the time in which she lived and developed as the great star that she eventually became.  He does this through extensive interviews of the people who had played a role in her life, news clippings, film reviews, and his own interviews of Ms. Davis.<br />The author takes the reader through her relationships, many of which were rocky,  with her family, her fellow actors, directors, writers, producers, and studio heads. The author discusses her  marriages, of which there were a four, and her lovers.  It is, however, when discussing her films, her highs and her lows, that the author's knowledge really comes to the forefront. Having seen most of the films of which he writes, I especially enjoyed and was totally fascinated by all the background information, skullduggery, and behind the scenes hoopla that went on in the making of these films. I will definitely go back and see some of these films again, as they are now couched in a new light.<br />This fascinating book is, without a doubt, the definitive biography of Bette Davis, warts and all. The author succeeds in painting a three dimensional portrait of a feisty, determined woman, who brooked no nonsense when it came to her craft, but who also had a softer side, wanting to love and be loved. This is a woman who asserted herself and refused to countenance anyone who would try to make her be something that she wasn't. While this may not have made her very popular with those who lived or worked with her, this quality shone through in her films, making her one of the most popular and enduring superstars of all time. Bette Davis eventually became more than the sum of her parts. She became a legend.rait of a feisty, determined woman, who brooked no nonsense when it came to her craft, but who also had a softer side, wanting to love and be loved. This is a woman who asserted herself and refused to countenance anyone who would try to make her be something that she wasn't. While this may not have made her very popular with those who lived or worked with her, this quality shone through in her films, making her one of the most popular and enduring superstars of all time. Bette Davis eventually became more than the sum of her parts. She became a legend.	2003-06-01
1105395:US	49355567	R3GEDXAGAGKA9U	044920264X	68556465	THE VOW ON THE HERON (Plantagenet Saga)	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	THE ROAD TO THE HUNDRED YEARS' WAR....	Jean Plaidy, a consummate storyteller known as Victoria Holt to her legion of devoted fans,  has written a riveting work of historical fiction, detailing the ascension of Edward III to the throne of England. The author expertly interweaves fact with fiction, resulting in a riveting tapestry of political intrigue, betrayal, murder, and love.<br />The author details the events that led to the coronation of fourteen year old Edward III, son of King Edward II and Queen Isabella, while his father still lived. Due to the perfidy of Isabella and her ambitious lover, Roger De Mortimer,  Edward II was taken prisoner and held against his will.  He abdicated under duress in favor of his son, Edward III. Shortly after, Edward II was murdered in an excruciating fashion. It was a murder in which Isabella and her lover were complicit.<br />Isabella and Roger de Mortimer thought that they would rule England through her son, Edward III. They were in for a rude awakening, as Edward III would prove to have a mind of his own. Moreover, when Edward III got wind that his father's ostensible abdication may not have been all it was purported to be, he would leave no stone unturned in uncovering the circumstances under which his father had lost his crown and the manner in which he had died. When he discovered what had really happened to his father, Edward III avenged his death, and not even Isabella, his mother, escaped the hand of justice.<br />The reign of Edward III would be an improvement over that of his father's reign, as Edward II had been a foolish king, more concerned with his favorites at court than with wisely ruling his country.  Edward III selected his own wife, Philippa of Hainault, to be his Queen. It would prove to be a felicitous choice and a love match. She would become known as Philippa the Good and give her husband many children, including an heir who would become known as the famous Black Prince. Edward III, for his part, would prove to be a faithful husband for most of his years. .<br />The reign of Edward III, which had started out auspiciously enough, took a turn for the worse at one point. Certain events, and a belief that the King of England  had a claim to the French throne, would lead to a war with France that would become known as the Hundred Years' War. This would prove to be a costly venture for England.  Moreover, towards the end of his reign Edward III would become besotted with a greedy and notorious opportunist, Alice Perrers, who would make the King a laughingstock in his own Court. Upon the death of Queen Philippa, her influence would know little bounds.<br />The author brings these personages, who were an integral part of the reign of Edward III, to life on the pages of this book, amidst all the tumult and pageantry of medieval life, providing  hours of pleasure to its reader. Those  who are fond of historical fiction will most definitely enjoy this well-researched book.his years. .<br />The reign of Edward III, which had started out auspiciously enough, took a turn for the worse at one point. Certain events, and a belief that the King of England  had a claim to the French throne, would lead to a war with France that would become known as the Hundred Years' War. This would prove to be a costly venture for England.  Moreover, towards the end of his reign Edward III would become besotted with a greedy and notorious opportunist, Alice Perrers, who would make the King a laughingstock in his own Court. Upon the death of Queen Philippa, her influence would know little bounds.<br />The author brings these personages, who were an integral part of the reign of Edward III, to life on the pages of this book, amidst all the tumult and pageantry of medieval life, providing  hours of pleasure to its reader. Those  who are fond of historical fiction will most definitely enjoy this well-researched book.	2003-05-31
1120316:US	49355567	R2ID1ZB3CXT9GI	0753164264	48167035	The Sixth Wife	Books	4	16	16	N	Y	TOO CLOSE FOR COMFORT...	Jean Plaidy, also known as Victoria Holt to her legion of devoted fans, was a gifted and prolific writer of historical fiction. A masterful storyteller, Ms. Plaidy seamlessly interweaves historical facts into a rich tapestry of fiction that is often spellbinding. Here, she writes of Katherine Parr, a comely noblewoman, twice widowed, who would rise from obscurity to reluctantly become the sixth and, thankfully, last wife of that colorful Tudor despot, King Henry VIII of England.<br />At the time that Katherine Parr caught the King's eye, she was in love with the rakishly handsome and ambitious Thomas Seymour, brother to Jane Seymour, the third wife of King Henry VIII. Jane died shortly after  producing the coveted living son, who would someday reign as King Edward VI. Thomas Seymour held a coveted place at court by virtue of his ties to the King. Once the King's eyes landed upon the hapless Katherine Parr, however, even Thomas Seymour  had no choice but to withdraw his suit for her hand.<br />The King's eye and attentions having settled upon Katherine Parr, so soon after he had sent his fifth wife to the block to have her head severed from her neck, made Katherine uneasy. After all,  Henry VIII's wives had met with unenviable fates. His first wife of many years, Katherine of Aragon, had been cast aside and driven to an early death. His second wife, Anne Boleyn, for whom he had discarded Katherine of Aragon, had been accused of having had numerous adulterous relationships while married to the King. For this she was found guilty of treason and was unceremoniously beheaded, whereupon he married plain Jane Seymour, who managed to give him a son before dying of complications after childbirth.<br />The fourth wife of Henry VIII was Anne of Cleves, whom the King found physically repugnant and not to his liking. She prudently and wisely agreed to a divorce rather than wait to have her head severed from the rest of her body. The fifth wife was Catherine Howard, a beautiful teenager who showed little judgment both before and after her marriage to Henry. Accused of adulterous behavior, she, too, was found guilty of treason, as had been Anne Boleyn, and beheaded. It was on the heels of this last execution that Henry's eyes fell upon the comely widow, Katherine Parr.<br />Katherine Parr, an intelligent, attractive woman, was known as Lady Latimer, when she caught the King's eye. It was to be an encounter from which there would be no escape. In love with Thomas Seymour, she married the King most reluctantly and consigned herself to a stressful number of years, living, at all times, under the sword of Damocles,  mindful of the fate of her predecessors and hoping not to lose her head.<br />As Queen Katherine, she would become the target of those who wished England to return to traditional Catholicism, as she was interested in what was referred to as the new learning. It would be these new ideas that  would eventually give rise to Protestantism in England. Her enemies lost no time in trying to have her share the same fate that had befallen some of Henry's other wives, as they plotted and schemed against her.<br />Queen Katherine's life would become a grim game of cat and mouse, as she tried to stay one step ahead of those who would wish her harm. Even Henry's affections would prove to be fickle, changing like the wind from day to day, causing her to fear that every day may be her last. Her daily existence was subject to the capricious and arbitrary moods of Henry VIII, a situation not conducive to peace and happiness.<br />This book is a treasure trove of historical facts that are melded into an enjoyable work of fiction, Even the most discerning reader should enjoy this richly drawn portrait of the court of Henry VIII and his sixth and, mercifully, last wife.  Set amidst the political and religious turmoil of sixteenth century England,  peppered with names of those who would have lasting historical impact, it is an entertaining, as well as informative, work of historical fiction.formative, work of historical fiction.	2003-05-18
1120420:US	49355567	RHCXRZ0R3G422	1573229717	953913428	Miracle at St. Anna	Books	3	32	40	N	N	IT COULD HAVE BEEN A CONTENDER...	The author, who penned the classic international bestseller, \\"The Color of Water: A Black Man's Tribute to His White Mother\\", and was the recipient of the prestigious Anisfield-Wolf Book Award, now turns to a story inspired by an incident that took place during World War II in the war torn, Italian village of St. Anna di Stazzema in the region of Tuscany. This is a war yarn with a twist, as it features a certain segment of our nation's army at the time, the Buffalo Soldiers of the 92nd Division.<br />The Buffalo soldiers were men of color in the segregated army of yesteryear. On top of fighting enemy soldiers, they were also subjected not only to racist stereotyping but to poor battle decisions by their white commanding officers, which decisions reflected just how dispensable the army thought these Buffalo soldiers to be. This is a story primarily viewed through the eyes of these very soldiers.<br />In the town of St. Anna di Stazzema, something very bad happened, something that would affect all those who would encounter those connected to the town and its events. It would affect Germans, Americans, Italians, partisans, and collaborators in different ways. Its impact would carry through the years and last until the present day.<br />This is a story about those Buffalo soldiers, the village in Tuscany nestled in a war zone, the enemy soldiers, villagers, collaborators, and partisans whom they encounter. At the heart of all that transpires is a little Italian boy, traumatized by war, whose fate would touch all with whom he came in contact and who would be at the heart of the miracle that was to take place. It is through him that they all learn that miracles do, indeed, exist.<br />The book gets off to a great start. In present day New York, an older postal worker, for seemingly no reason, blows away a customer at point blank range with the single pull of a trigger. An investigative reporter runs with a lead and finds that the postal worker has, hidden in his home, a famous piece of statuary, an exquisitely sculpted head, which has been missing from a bridge in Italy since World War II. The mystery deepens.<br />The book then reverts to World War II and the cast of characters that are central to the story. It is here that the author runs into some difficulties. When a number of Buffalo soldiers get caught behind enemy lines, the story start to fall apart. Though it is an interesting story, it is simply dully told. Excruciatingly pedestrian in its telling, the book takes its toll on the reader, turning what could have been a vivid, riveting account into a soporific one.<br />It is not until towards the end of the book that the story again picks up and is able to deliver the same one two punch that it does in the beginning. By then, however, it is too late, and the book never reaches the promise so incipient in its beginning pages. Still, for those readers willing to put up with some disappointment, the book ultimately delivers at the end.amous piece of statuary, an exquisitely sculpted head, which has been missing from a bridge in Italy since World War II. The mystery deepens.<br />The book then reverts to World War II and the cast of characters that are central to the story. It is here that the author runs into some difficulties. When a number of Buffalo soldiers get caught behind enemy lines, the story start to fall apart. Though it is an interesting story, it is simply dully told. Excruciatingly pedestrian in its telling, the book takes its toll on the reader, turning what could have been a vivid, riveting account into a soporific one.<br />It is not until towards the end of the book that the story again picks up and is able to deliver the same one two punch that it does in the beginning. By then, however, it is too late, and the book never reaches the promise so incipient in its beginning pages. Still, for those readers willing to put up with some disappointment, the book ultimately delivers at the end.	2003-05-18
1141582:US	49355567	RYJX7JGB943PE	0899668143	829916644	Katherine	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	A LOVE FOR THE AGES...	Written nearly half a century ago, this well-researched historical fiction is as vibrant and as stirring today, as it, undoubtedly, was when it was first written. It regales the reader with the story of Katherine De Roet and John of Gaunt. Beautifully written, it tells the story of Katherine, the youngest daughter of a herald who was knighted before he died.<br />Born commoners, Katherine and her older sister Philippa, who went on to marry Geoffrey Chaucer, were left poor as church mice. While Philippa managed to obtain a post in the household of the Queen, wife to King Edward III, Katherine went to a convent where she grew up.<br />When she had grown into her early teens and become a raving beauty, she left the convent to join her sister at Court. Upon doing so, her youthful beauty captivated a boorish knight, Sir Hugh Swynford, who lusted after her. He, eventually, married Katherine, when it became clear that it would be the only way by which he could satisfy his desire.<br />At the same time that she met her husband to be, she also caught the eye of  John of Gaunt, the Duke of Lancaster, son of King Edward III and brother to the heir to the throne, Edward, the Black Prince. John was, at the time, happily  married to a beautiful woman named Blanche, who would befriend Katherine.<br />After reluctantly becoming Lady Swynford, Katherine retired to her husband's estates. She would meet John of Gaunt again, igniting a passion that upon the death of  Blanche and that of Sir Hugh Swynford would be consummated.  For John of Gaunt, Katherine would remain the love of his life and his mistress, even though for reasons of state, he could not marry her, at the time.  He, instead, married the heiress to the throne of Castile.<br />Still, Katherine remained with him, bearing him many children. Their illicit union was to cause much unrest and scandal throughout England, until they finally parted, only to reunite in their later years. John of Gaunt would then do something unprecedented. This act would bring them much happiness in their final years.<br />This is a richly drawn portrait of a scintillating love affair in a time that was rife with political intrigue. Set in a medieval landscape with all the pageantry, strife, and turbulence that constituted fourteenth century England, this narrative is peppered with those characters and individuals that made the period memorable. Beautifully written, it is a novel to be savored and one with which the most discerning reader would be well satisfied.dented. This act would bring them much happiness in their final years.<br />This is a richly drawn portrait of a scintillating love affair in a time that was rife with political intrigue. Set in a medieval landscape with all the pageantry, strife, and turbulence that constituted fourteenth century England, this narrative is peppered with those characters and individuals that made the period memorable. Beautifully written, it is a novel to be savored and one with which the most discerning reader would be well satisfied.	2003-04-29
1168701:US	49355567	R2KKCDCE5SMRL1	0425156249	371135588	The Doctor, the Murder, the Mystery	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	A TRAVESTY OF JUSTICE...	This riveting book chronicles and analyzes the amazing  Branion murder case in which Dr. John Branion was arrested, tried, and convicted for the December 1967 murder of his wife, Donna. This was a case that caught the imagination of the public, at the time, as the Branions were a prominent family within the African American community in Chicago. I remember seeing a recap of this case on \\"Unsolved Mysteries\\" many years later and thinking that it was just about impossible for the doctor to have committed this crime, unless he could have been in two places at once.<br />The evidence that led to Dr. Branion's arrest was virtually non-existent and wholly circumstantial, fueled by conjecture and speculation. The police work was shoddy, at best, bolstered by faulty memories and a desire to close the case. Dr. Branion was tried in the then notoriously corrupt criminal justice system of Chicago, Illinois. The defense team was spearheaded by an attorney who was astonishingly inept. The prosecution was led by a veteran prosecutor who evidently left his ethics at home everyday before heading off to work. Many years later, the lead prosecutor  acknowledged that he knew that Dr. Branion himself could not have committed the murder but prosecuted him any way, as he believed that Br. Branion had paid someone to kill his wife, despite lacking a scintilla of evidence to support such a theory. To compound this travesty of justice further, the trial was presided over by a corrupt judge who took a payoff and who, many years later, was convicted of taking bribes. Need one say more?<br />The murder of his wife Donna was to begin an undreamt of odyssey for Dr. Branion. After his conviction, he was permitted to be out on bail while pending appeal. For nearly three years, he waited in limbo, until his appeals were exhausted.  When his appeals failed, he was sentenced to a minimum of twenty years in prison. He then did the only thing that he felt an innocent man could do, when faced with the prospect of a twenty year sentence for a crime he did not commit. He fled the jurisdiction, a move that would find him spending the next twelve years on the run in Africa until his eventual capture and return to the United States in 1983.  He would then spend the next seven years in prison awaiting justice. When it finally came, it was too little, too late.<br />The author,  who together with her husband, a law professor, tirelessly worked pro bono on Dr. Branion's appeals upon his return to the United States, puts together a well researched and persuasive chronicle of Dr. Branion's tragic saga. Well written and comprehensive, this compelling narrative will keep the reader riveted to its pages. It is with good reason that the author was the recipient of the Anthony and Agatha Awards for Best True Crime. Those who enjoy the true crime genre, as well as those who enjoy mysteries, will find the story contained within the pages of this book fascinating. Bravo!rospect of a twenty year sentence for a crime he did not commit. He fled the jurisdiction, a move that would find him spending the next twelve years on the run in Africa until his eventual capture and return to the United States in 1983.  He would then spend the next seven years in prison awaiting justice. When it finally came, it was too little, too late.<br />The author,  who together with her husband, a law professor, tirelessly worked pro bono on Dr. Branion's appeals upon his return to the United States, puts together a well researched and persuasive chronicle of Dr. Branion's tragic saga. Well written and comprehensive, this compelling narrative will keep the reader riveted to its pages. It is with good reason that the author was the recipient of the Anthony and Agatha Awards for Best True Crime. Those who enjoy the true crime genre, as well as those who enjoy mysteries, will find the story contained within the pages of this book fascinating. Bravo!	2003-04-06
1180028:US	49355567	R1IORBSSKVZ7QQ	0399148108	89043645	Everybody Pays	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	THESE MEAN STREETS...	This is a true story of a hit man literally getting away with murder in 1970s Chicago because of a pyramid of power and  payoffs, only to have the story come full circle more than twenty five years later and have justice prevail in the end. The hit man, neighborhood wiseguy Harry Aleman, thought that he had gotten away with murder. After all, he had been tried and acquitted, and one can't be tried for the same twice on the theory that double jeopardy would bar such a second bite of the apple. Or would it? Well, more than a quarter of a century later, the Department of Justice thought otherwise. After all, how much jeopardy could Harry Aleman have actually have been in, if the fix were in?<br />This is a well researched, well-written, compelling chronicle of a case that would would have great impact on an eyewitness to a murder. It also a fascinating narrative on the influence that the mob once wielded over the criminal justice system in Chicago. It is a fascinating birdseye view into a criminal justice system so rife with corruption, it will keep the reader riveted to its pages. It is also the story of one man who tried to be a stand up guy and do the right thing under this corrupt system and found himself the one paying the price for its shortcomings.<br />Bob Lowe, a working class stiff who worked at a gas station, had the misfortune to stumble into the murder of Billy Logan, a neighborhood acquaintance, one night. In the mean streets of Chicago's West Side, Bob  saw Harry Aleman blow Billy away with a  sawed-off shotgun. In that one brief moment, simply by being in the wrong place at the wrong time, Bob's life and that of his immediate family would change forever. From that moment on, it would be Bob, and not Harry, who would be on the run.<br />Placed with his family  in a witness protection program that was ineffectual and problematic, characterized in a negative way by the corrupt judge who presided over the trial, and seeing a murderer vindicated at his expense, Bob Lowe saw his life, as he knew it, simply ebb away. He became awash in a haze of booze and drugs, doing some crime and doing some time. His life was a continual lost weekend, until he was finally able to pull himself out of the personal morass into which he had descended. Over a quarter of a century later, he would find himself finally vindicated at Harry Aleman's second trial for the murder of Billy Logan, as Harry Aleman would finally get the verdict he should have gotten over a quarter of a century earlier. The wheels of justice did, indeed, grind slowly.se, Bob Lowe saw his life, as he knew it, simply ebb away. He became awash in a haze of booze and drugs, doing some crime and doing some time. His life was a continual lost weekend, until he was finally able to pull himself out of the personal morass into which he had descended. Over a quarter of a century later, he would find himself finally vindicated at Harry Aleman's second trial for the murder of Billy Logan, as Harry Aleman would finally get the verdict he should have gotten over a quarter of a century earlier. The wheels of justice did, indeed, grind slowly.	2003-03-27
1184895:US	49355567	R1A06V7UQN6MY4	0312953011	558045989	Love's Blood	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	LOVE IS MANY A SPLENDORED THING...	This is a well written, well researched book that explores the murder of  a family by a teenage girl and her thirty something, married lover. The murder especially shocks the conscience, because it is the teenage girl's own family that is murdered. Her father, mother, and thirteen year old kid brother would be shot, bludgeoned, and stabbed in their own home, leaving a grisly, blood splattered crime scene.<br />The books takes one into the mind of pretty and sexy Patricia Columbo who was fifteen when she first met Frank DeLuca, a thirty something married pharmacist with a predilection for very, and I mean very, kinky sex. From that moment of their first meeting, Patricia Columbo would embark on a road from which there would be no turning back. He would be Patricia's svengali, and she would be his for the asking, no matter what he asked. Her parents strongly disapproved of their daughter's relationship with DeLuca, and they made their dissatisfaction with the relationship known in no uncertain terms.<br />The book explore the relationships and events that led up to these sensational murders. It also chronicles a series of interviews with Patricia Columbo, years after the crimes were committed, about what actually happened. The book benefits from this first person recollection, as it makes for a three dimensional overview of the lamentable events of one night nearly twenty seven years ago. Moreover, the author offers a critical analysis of those events and raises a few questions in the process.<br />This book is not for the squeamish or the prudish, as it is quite graphic in its telling. It will, however, be greatly enjoyed by those who like the true crime genre, as the book is first rate.	2003-03-22
1185083:US	49355567	R3AKNBY8C8E38I	0312969171	938062439	Everybody's Best Friend: The True Story of a Marriage That Ended In Murder	Books	3	10	11	N	Y	HIS WIFE'S WORST ENEMY...	This book tells the story about a murder that shocked Philadelphia and its environs several years ago. When a man called 911 and reported that his wife was in the bath tub and did not appear to be breathing, police and paramedics rushed to the home. There, they found Craig Rabinowitz waiting for them,  and in the bathtub, apparently dead, was his twenty nine year old wife, Stefanie.<br />Although there were virtually no visible signs of foul play on the body and hospital doctors later categorized the death as accidental, a wily and astute county coroner and forensic pathologist ordered a post-mortem on the body. That resulted in a finding of death by homicide. From the very beginning, the only real murder suspect was the husband, Craig Rabinowitz, whom the police discovered had a very dark side, much to the surprise and dismay of family and friends. The Craig Rabinowitz whom the police investigation uncovered was nothing like the Craig Rabinowitz family and friends had described.<br />The book reveals some of the tawdry details of the secret life that Craig Rabinowitz had led for some time. There is, however, no reconciliation of the Craig that friends and family knew with the secret Craig . The reader also comes away knowing very little about the murder victim. The treatment of those involved in this criminal scenario is quite superficial and repetitive. . Moreover, while there are photographs included in the book, none are of the crime scene. Most of the eight pages of photographs are of those affiliated with the investigation and prosecution of the case.<br />This tepid book is a quick and easy read, but only moderately interesting, at best, and will probably appeal only to avid fans of the true crime genre.	2003-03-22
1196852:US	49355567	R2JOVQW75B70Q2	9580457107	634705630	Cuando Sopla El Viento (Spanish Edition)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	BIRDS OF A FEATHER...	This is the Spanish text edition of a fairly tepid book, mediocre fare at best, in which the plot revolves around secret, government sanctioned experiments on humans, dealing with some of the ethical themes of today: cloning, genetic engineering of humans, and cross species hybrids.<br /><br />The storyline is simple. Two of the test subjects have escaped the confines of the closely guarded, secret laboratory. Matt and Max, a brother and sister team that can fly, are being hunted down. Yet, They need only spread their wings, and, as did Icarus, they can soar up high into the wild blue yonder. The only problem is that hunters must bring them back to the secret lab, before anyone sees them. To further complicate things, Matt and Max do not wish to be caught, because they know that bad things happen in the lab and that people, who are deemed dispensible and no longer necessary, are \\"put to sleep\\" and never seen again.<br /><br />In the outside word, the children separate. Eleven year old Max has the good fortune to run into Frannie O'Neill, a compassionate veterinarian who immediately realizes that there is something extraordinary about Max, beyond the fact that she has real, honest-to-goodness wings and can fly. Frannie is aware that Max is more than the sum of her parts. Together with the help of an FBI agent who calls himself Kit Harrison, they will do everything they can to help Max evade her pursuers, only to become earmarked for death themselves.	2003-03-12
1197269:US	49355567	R3A1YSTTF0HALK	8439706006	667553944	La Escultora (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	LA ESCULTORA ES BELLA EN SU CORAZON...	This is the Spanish text edition of an intriguing, well-written mystery, \\"The Sculptress\\", which garnered the 1994 Edgar Award for best novel of the year for British writer, Minette Walters, who has written quite a number of excellent books. She is a writer in the tradition of that other great British novelist, Ruth Rendell, known also as Barbara Vine. The comparison by those who are familiar with the works of both Ms. Walters and Ms. Rendell is inescapable.<br /><br />This book revolves around two main stories that become by necessity intertwined. One is that of a morbidly obese, young woman, Olive Martin, who is imprisoned for the brutal and grisly murders of her mother, Gwen, and beautiful, younger sister, Amber, whose butchered bodies shocked even the most jaded of folks. On the eve of trial, Olive made a full confession to the crime and received a prison sentence of not less than twenty-five years for her butchery. Known in prison as \\"The Sculptress\\", she passes the time making miniature, carved, wax images, a delicate and sensitive pastime for one with a reputation for such primal savagery.<br /><br />Enter Rosalind \\"Roz\\" Leigh, a thirties something author suffering from writer's block, who accepts a commission to write about the Olive Martin case. After meeting Olive, she becomes intrigued by her, finding her to be other than what she had expected, and a symbiotic relationship develops between the two. As she delves into the facts of the murder case, and as her interviews with Olive reveal, all is not quite what it seems. The more that Roz sorts through the facts and the more people that she interviews who were in some way associated with the Martin family, the more she becomes convinced that a miscarriage of justice has occurred and that the wrong person is paying a horrific price for the grisly murders of Gwen and Amber.<br /><br />Someone, however, does not wish her to dig too deeply. With the aid of a former police sergeant, Hal Hawksley, an attractive, though conflicted, young man who is now her new love interest and was also the officer who arrested Olive for the murders, Roz stays the course and perseveres in her inquiry. What she discovers is a complex morass of human indifference, greed, and passion that makes for a compelling and well crafted mystery.hough conflicted, young man who is now her new love interest and was also the officer who arrested Olive for the murders, Roz stays the course and perseveres in her inquiry. What she discovers is a complex morass of human indifference, greed, and passion that makes for a compelling and well crafted mystery.	2003-03-12
1197312:US	49355567	R2N0SBTLQ6806V	8432215333	799167340	El Perfume: Historia de un Asesino (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	UN ASESINO BIEN RARO...	This is the Spanish text edition of a novel so beautifully written that it transcends into literature. Ingenious in its conception and carefully crafted, the author has created a unique and dazzling work of fiction. Divided into three parts, the book tells the story of a most unusual life, that of Jean-Baptiste Grenouille.<br /><br />The first part of the book establishes that he was born to a woman who was hung from a gibbet for having left him to die. It turns out that Jean-Baptiste is an unusual baby. He gives people the willies, because, unlike most babies, Jean-Baptiste has no scent.<br /><br />Over time, Jean-Baptiste develops into a boy with a secret gift. His olfactory sense is developed to a degree unheard of in humans. He delights in parsing the odors around him. Ugly, friendless, and a loner, he eventually ventures into the city of Paris, a malodorous and pungent cornucopia of smells. Believe me, there is plenty to sniff out in eighteenth century Paris! Jean-Baptiste savors each whiff, and the book conveys these olfactory delights with meticulous, descriptive precision.<br /><br />His bleak existence is transformed, however, when he one day captures a heady scent of such exquisite beauty that he finds himself obsessed with it. Determined to have that scent at all costs, he eventually sniffs it out. It turns out to be the scent of a young virgin on the cusp of flowering into a woman. It is a scent that he must possess. What he does to do so will surely chill the reader.<br /><br />Jean-Baptiste eventually maneuvers to get himself apprenticed to a perfumer, so that he can have the opportunity to learn the trade and create scents. He leads a bleak existence, subsisting as little more than a slave to the perfumer for whom he works. But no matter, for he learns all that he needs to know.<br /><br />The second part of the book begins when Jean-Baptiste leave his employer and goes on a personal pilgrimage, leading an austere existence away from civilization for many years. There, he withdraws into himself even further, living a totally self-sustaining, hermitic existence. He ultimately realizes what other have sensed about him. Jean-Baptiste has no personal scent. He simply does not smell.<br /><br />With this knowledge, he returns to civilization where, having lived as practically an animal for many years, he creates a fictitious and adventurous scenario to account for his filthy and disgusting appearance. Subsequently, he is taken under the wing of some local nobility and feted and pampered. Realizing the importance of scent, he creates a personal scent for himself. He now realizes that he who has the power over scent can rule supreme. He intends to do so.<br /><br />The third part of the book has Jean-Baptiste migrating to a town that is the hub for the scent trade. Perfumes, oils, and soaps are the stock in trade for this town and, as such, beckon brightly to Jean-Baptiste. Once there, he again smells a scent so delectable that he longs to possess it. He knows that scent for what it is and now knows that it is the scent, and not the personal charms of its bearer, that captures the attention and devotion of others. Jean Baptiste wants to harness that scent at all costs. He desperately desires the power to make others love him. He wants to be supreme.<br /><br />It is his desperate desire to harness and possess that celestial scent that causes Jean-Baptiste, a socio-path with little empathy for others, to prey upon the maidens of the town in order to obtain that which he needs. It is his obsession that lays at the heart of the vortex that arises in the town, as murder after murder occurs. Yet, no one suspects him.<br /><br />What ultimately happens leads to an almost unbelievable climax, when Jean-Baptiste finds himself consumed by the passion he has managed to arouse in others through scent. This is a heady, quirky, and compelling debut novel, like nothing I have ever before read. Complex and lyrical in its telling, itis a novel that stays with the reader long after the last page is turned. Bravo!is a novel that stays with the reader long after the last page is turned. Bravo!	2003-03-12
1197527:US	49355567	R2TS1701VT17DM	8401499585	918216031	Los Pilares de La Tierra (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A RIVETING MEDIEVAL SAGA...	This is the Spanish text edition of a masterful saga of life in twelfth century England and epic storytelling at its best. The author weaves a rich and colorful tapestry of people, places, and events surrounding the building of a magnificent cathedral in the medieval town of Kingsbridge.<br /><br />Early twelfth century England was a country in a state of flux. King Henry I had died without a male heir. His daughter Maude was to be queen. The English barons, for the most part, however, refused to swear fealty to her. Maude's first cousin, Stephen of Blois, then usurped her rights and proclaimed himself king. This was to plunge England into a civil war that was to last for many, many years, turning England into a virtually lawless and tumultuous land, until Maude's son became King Henry II of England.<br /><br />For most people, however, life would go on with every day concerns being paramount. The book tells the story of a number of these lives. One story is that of Tom, a master builder, whose life long dream was to build a cathedral. The lives of Tom and his family would intersect that of a humble and intelligent monk named Phillip who would become the prior at Kingsbridge Priory. The fates would intervene and provide Tom with an opportunity to pursue his dream.<br /><br />Their lives would intersect with a number of other individuals, some good, some evil, who would have a great impact on their lives and their goals. Tom would lose his first wife, Agnes, by whom he already had two children, brutish Alfred and sweet Martha, due to complications sustained during the birth of another son. This son was to provide a connection between Tom and Phillip of which Phillip would long be unaware.<br /><br />Tom would ultimately marry Ellen, a strong willed independent woman of the forest, perceived by many to be a witch. Her son Jack, a sensitive, highly intelligent lad, whose father was deceased, would grow to manhood. His dream would begin where Tom's had left off. In Jack's background, however, was a mystery surrounding his deceased father, a French jongleur. That mystery in some way involved Sir Percy Hamleigh, Waleran Bigod, and Prior James, the old prior of Kingsbridge before Phillip.<br /><br />When Earl Bartholomew of Shiring makes the treasonous mistake of siding with Maude in the conflict with Stephen, he ends up on the losing side. Sir Percy Hamleigh and his son William, siding with Stephen, attack the Earl's castle, and take Earl Bartholomew captive. Imprisoned for treason, he loses his earldom to the Hamleighs. His young son and heir, Richard, and his daughter, the beautiful Lady Aliena, are left to fend for themselves, but not until William Hamleigh has slaked his thirst for revenge upon them. You see, William had been engaged at one time to marry the Lady Aliena, only to be spurned by her to his vast public humiliation. This was the moment for which he had been waiting. Aliena and Richard would ultimately migrate to Kingsbridge to begin a new life.<br /><br />Meanwhile, the church itself was having its own political intrigues. Phillip was tricked by Waleran Bigod, an ambitious arch-deacon, into supporting him for the post of bishop. Phillip would later best Waleran and incur his enmity for a lifetime. Remigius, a spy for Waleran Bigod, was a monk at Kingsbridge Priory who saw his dream of becoming prior at Kingsbridge dissipate with the advent of Phillip. He would spend a lifetime undermining Phillip and plotting against him. Moreover, the fate of Kingsbridge and the building of its cathedral would always seem to hinge upon the political vagaries of the time. Its fortunes would ebb and flow with the political winds.<br /><br />Ever present throughout the destinies of all these characters is the age old battle between good and evil. Complicating it further were those who sought to do good but did evil, believing that the end justified the means. Spanning over fifty turbulent years, this is a spellbinding story of love, hate, faith, betrayal, revenge, and triumph. Against a backdrop of civil war, the sharply drawn characters grasp the imagination of the reader. Twelfth century England is laid out in painstaking detail, providing an unforgettable backdrop for the lives lived within the pages of this memorable work of historical fiction. This book is simply riveting. Bravo!te, faith, betrayal, revenge, and triumph. Against a backdrop of civil war, the sharply drawn characters grasp the imagination of the reader. Twelfth century England is laid out in painstaking detail, providing an unforgettable backdrop for the lives lived within the pages of this memorable work of historical fiction. This book is simply riveting. Bravo!	2003-03-12
1205424:US	49355567	RSQ7KIJZZ32YG	8487254969	881025813	Casa de Arena y Niebla (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	COMPELLING...COMPLEX...COMPLETE...	This is the Spanish text edition of \\"House of Sand and Fog\\", a book that is simply a masterpiece. It is an exceptionally well written and brilliantly told story of two people whose destinies become intertwined  through a simple twist of fate. It is the story of what happens to them and to those who love them, when their respective worlds collide in a climactic and tragic ending.<br /><br />It is the story of Colonel Behrani, a formerly wealthy Iranian, who had thrived under the regime of the Shah, only to lose everything during his country's revolution. Now, he and his family find themselves undergoing the immigrant experience in America, working to maintain appearances among their fellow exiles, and finding the going hard. Working long hours at menial jobs, Colonel Behrani longs to be a master of the universe again.<br /><br />It is also the story of Kathy Nicolo, a woman with some serious issues. She is a sad and pathetic bottom feeder, who has lost nearly everything in life, including the one thing that has kept her somewhat anchored: the house she inherited from her father. She is a loser and innocuous bumbler who has totally squandered her life. When she loses that which she holds most dear, her house, and is summarily evicted from it, she meets Sheriff Lester Burden, a married man with children, who is smitten by her. His obsession with her would lead him down a path from which there would be no return.<br /><br />When Colonel Behrani's quest for the American Dream finds him with an opportunity to buy a house at a bargain basement price at a county auction, he plunks down the remainder of his family's life savings. At the time, he knows nothing of the circumstances of the county's possession of that house, Kathy's house. He and his family move in. Colonel Behrani's head is filled with dreams of selling the house at a large profit, becoming a real estate speculator, and leading his family back to its former glory and place in society. He truly believes that America is the land of opportunity. He still believes in the American Dream.<br /><br />Kathy, on the other hand, has done nothing with the opportunities afforded her. She has simply squandered them by marrying the wrong men, boozing, and drugging herself into oblivion. Living a marginal existence by cleaning houses and proving herself to be an untrustworthy and totally amoral person with little regard for others, her life is the antithesis of the American Dream. Still, she has this house, and when she loses it due to a bureaucratic error, the bottom totally falls out of her life. For now, she truly has nothing. Like a dog with a bone, she refuses to let the issue go and will stop at nothing to get her house back from the Behranis, whom she views as greedy usurpers. Her view of the situation is supported by Sheriff Lester Burdon, who becomes embroiled in Kathy's struggle and takes it to a level that not even Kathy could have anticipated.<br /><br />As the author takes the reader to the book's climactic ending, the reader will not be able to put down this beautifully crafted, literary tour de force. The author evokes a distinct mood in his narrative of the Behrani family through a clever use of language and sentence structure that seems to match the syncopation of their first language, giving it a rich, three dimensional flavor. The language of Colonel Behrani has a rich infusion of the cultural milieu out of which he arose. It is a wonderful literary contrivance used to great effect by a very talented and gifted writer.<br /><br />When the author writes about Kathy, the language and sentence structure of the narrative is simpler, looser, baser, and reflective of the individual around whom the author is trying to create a mood. Again he succeeds, as Kathy is a very primal character, unlike Colonel Behrani, who is more introspective. She is someone who ruins almost everything that she touches without meaning to do so. She is a person totally lacking in self-control. Whenshe meets Sheriff Lester Burden, a tightly wound, conflicted man, very much in control of himself, his passion for her causes him to begin to lose his self-control. He begins a downward spiral that ends in a personal meltdown. The character of Kathy is somewhat pitiable, as she is the catalyst around whom the tragic events unfold. They unfold, however, in a way that she never intended.<br /><br />This modern day Greek tragedy, with its layers of moral and cultural complexities, is a spellbinding and suspenseful page turner, crafted by an enormously talented author who is able to construct a rich and powerful novel of the first order. It is simply a great book. Bravo!she meets Sheriff Lester Burden, a tightly wound, conflicted man, very much in control of himself, his passion for her causes him to begin to lose his self-control. He begins a downward spiral that ends in a personal meltdown. The character of Kathy is somewhat pitiable, as she is the catalyst around whom the tragic events unfold. They unfold, however, in a way that she never intended.<br /><br />This modern day Greek tragedy, with its layers of moral and cultural complexities, is a spellbinding and suspenseful page turner, crafted by an enormously talented author who is able to construct a rich and powerful novel of the first order. It is simply a great book. Bravo!	2003-03-05
1205437:US	49355567	R1YTQFH7UD3ZRN	8408034332	19538088	La mujer del piloto	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A MOSAIC OF AN EMOTIONAL LANDSCAPE...	This is the Spanish text edition of a beautifully written novel about a happily married woman, Kathryn Lyons, whose husband, Jack, is an airline pilot. They have a teenage daughter named Mattie. They live in her lovely childhood home in Ely, New Hampshire. For sixteen years life has been good. Then her husband goes down with his plane, just ten miles off the coast of Ireland, and ever so slowly the very fabric of their life together unravels.<br /><br />The media frenzy, surrounding the explosion of the plane that her husband was piloting, brings to light the plain fact that her husband had been, unbeknownst to her, leading a double life, a life that had not included her or their daughter, but had, most emphatically, excluded them. This is a story of Kathryn's navigation of the emotional roller coaster that was to become her life. She is thrust into a maelstrom of grief and disbelief, as she struggles to reconcile her memory of the man she thought she knew, with the reality of who he now appeared to have been.<br /><br />This is a remarkable book, written in clean spare prose that underscores some of the very emotion laden issues with which it grapples. At times infinitely sad and poignant, it is a story of betrayal and splintered memories, as well as a very absorbing, skillfully told tale of adultery that will hold the reader in its thrall.	2003-03-05
1206117:US	49355567	R1DUKMUJZI5Q4Z	8440675984	601378346	Un plan sencillo	Books	5	0	0	N	N	MONEY IS INDEED THE ROOT OF ALL EVIL...	This is, without a doubt, an amazing debut novel. It is a modern day morality tale, which sees people's lives change significantly, when they come upon a veritable treasure trove of money. The change is not necessarily for the better, as the reader will discover.<br />The plot revolves around two, small town brothers, Hank and Jacob Mitchell, who, along with Jacob's friend, Lou, inadvertently come upon a downed plane that is buried in the snow, deep in the woods of a rural area. In that plane is a dead pilot, along with four million dollars in cold, hard cash. All three of them could sure use the money. The question is, what are they going to do about it?<br />They come up with what they think is a simple plan. They will take the money and just wait and see, not spending it, until the coast seems clear. From the moment they make this decision, life is never the same for any of them. Hank, taking charge of the money for safekeeping, begins to undergo a change that is seemingly uncharacteristic of one who is outwardly so respectable, rational, and benign of countenance.<br />As the issue of the money begins to divide the three accomplices, greed and betrayal bubble to the surface, to culminate in a series of chilling, cold blooded murders. Meanwhile, Hank, manipulated by his Ma Barker of a wife, Sarah, begins a personal downward spiral, succumbing to an evil so profound, that it will leave the reader open mouthed.<br />What happens to them all makes for an amazingly powerful and riveting story of psychological suspense. Written in clean, spare prose, this well-crafted novel is an absorbing page-turner that grips the reader from the inception, holding the reader in its thrall until its climactic conclusion. The ending serves to show the reader that what goes around, does, indeed, come around.	2003-03-05
1206969:US	49355567	R38ZOVK5ZYRUNB	9501500233	930728343	El Rey Bastardo/ the Bastard King	Books	4	1	1	N	N	THE DUKE WHO WOULD BE KING...	This is the first book in the Norman Trilogy series written by the author and a very good work of historical fiction. It chronicles the the life of William the Conqueror, the bastard son of the Duke of Normandy. Born to the daughter of a tanner, his illegitimacy was to be a sore spot and bone of contention for many years. Designated by his father to succeed him as the Duke of Normandy, the circumstances of his birth would cause him to have to fight usurpers within his duchy in order to retain his title.<br />After a somewhat unusual courtship, William married Matilda, the fiercely independent and beautiful daughter of the King of Flanders. Together, they had a number of children who were to cause him much anger and much sorrow. One of them would eventually bring about a fissure in his relationship with his beloved Matilda.<br />William, always ambitious, coveted the throne of England and was supported in his desire to be king by his intelligent and equally ambitious wife Matilda. In 1066, after the death of the King of England, Edward the Confessor, with whom he had had a longstanding friendship, William crossed the channel from Normandy to England. He wrested the English crown from King Harold, Edward's popular Saxon successor. In doing so, he forever changed the course of England and its history.<br />Vividly written and well researched, the author weaves a spellbinding tale of the Duke who would be King. A tapestry of exciting historical events makes this an enthralling tale that will capture the imagination of the reader. Lovers of historical fiction will especially enjoy this interesting and well written book.	2003-03-04
1207113:US	49355567	R1MG744KNTAKCN	8423311406	725598179	La Confesion de la Reina	Books	5	0	0	N	N	LET THEM EAT CAKE...	Victoria Holt was one of my favorite authors when I was younger. A master storyteller, she would consistently weave a story that would have the reader turning the pages. This work of historical fiction is one of her best. Riveting from beginning to end, this fictional autobiographical account of the life of Marie Antoinette is superb. Written in the first person, with little dialogue, it is the rumination of a life that was to end tragically. Pampered, spoiled, and fun loving, the beautiful Maria Antonia of Austria metamorphosed into Marie Antoinette of France upon her marriage to the Dauphin, who would eventually become King of France, the ineffectual, but benign, Louis XVI.<br />This is her story, grounded in historical fact and set within the framework of history. This work of fiction about the life of Marie Antoinette, as seen through her own eyes, is fascinating, as it captures the flavor of those uncertain times and the events that led to the French Revolution and the end of the monarchy in France. It is a reflection on how Marie Antoinette's own behavior influenced the fate of France. Indulging in the excesses of the day, she initially gave little thought as to how her actions might affect the people of France or the monarchy. By the time she realized that her actions and excesses had wide-spread political ramifications, it was too late, and her fate, as well as that of her husband, was sealed. No amount of personal regret could change it.<br />This book will be enjoyed by those who enjoy well-written historical fiction. It is little wonder that this book spent two months on the New York Times Best Seller List. It is simply historical fiction at its best.	2003-03-04
1208457:US	49355567	R8J6UWV6X2OE7	0446676829	343731133	Little Girls in Pretty Boxes: The Making and Breaking of Elite Gymnasts and Figure Skaters	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	EENY...MEENY..TEENY...WEENY...	This is a terrific book on the state of woman's gymnastics and, to some extent, figure skating, though the primary focus of the book is on gymnastics. It focuses on the enormous demands made upon these young athletes by coaches, trainers, officials, and parents. Some of those demands are so unrealistic as to border on child abuse. There are athletes who are starve themselves, who develop life threatening eating disorders, who perform dangerous maneuvers in the quest for the gold, and who sometimes end up dead or devastatingly injured as a result.<br />There is a lot of backstage dish in the book that is interesting. True life stories, some of which are heartbreaking, flesh out the allegations asserted by the author. The emphasis on being tiny and elfin has had enormous impact on elite female gymnasts. One sees the difference in  just by looking comparatively at the women's U.S. Olympic gymnastic teams from 1976 and 1992. The photographs in the book best illustrate this and the comparison bespeaks volumes. Elite gymnastics went from being a woman's sport to a girl's sport, as the author has sagely noted, and the photographs corroborate that assertion.<br />Moreover, while some measures have been taken, such as raising the age for Olympic competition in 2000 from fifteen to sixteen, at the same time the minimum level of difficulty has increased, making an already dangerous sport more dangerous. Remember, elite gymnastics is a sport fraught with the potential for devastating spinal cord injuries. The author recounts a number of these heartbreaking injuries and the circumstances under which they occurred, leaving the reader to ask oneself, \\"Just what were these coaches thinking?<br />The pressure that some of these girls and young women endure is truly unbelievable. The demands upon them are often unrealistic, stunting not only their  physical development, but their social and emotional development, as well. Competing with serious injuries, while taking potent drugs for the excruciating pain, is simply not commensurate with a sensible athletic regimen.<br />Parents who are living their dreams through their children are often as dangerous as unscrupulous and unqualified coaches. Many force their children to compete merely to satisfy their own desires for personal glory, badgering and berating their offspring every step of the way. Coaches, likewise, have their own dreams. Everyone wants to produce Olympians, but at what cost?<br />This is a an excellent book with a lot of information, both anecdotal and empirical. When purchasing the book, however, be sure to get the latest edition, as it has been updated with information on the state of gymnastics as of the year  2000. It also contains 24 pages of photographs, including 8 new pages for the updated edition.the excruciating pain, is simply not commensurate with a sensible athletic regimen.<br />Parents who are living their dreams through their children are often as dangerous as unscrupulous and unqualified coaches. Many force their children to compete merely to satisfy their own desires for personal glory, badgering and berating their offspring every step of the way. Coaches, likewise, have their own dreams. Everyone wants to produce Olympians, but at what cost?<br />This is a an excellent book with a lot of information, both anecdotal and empirical. When purchasing the book, however, be sure to get the latest edition, as it has been updated with information on the state of gymnastics as of the year  2000. It also contains 24 pages of photographs, including 8 new pages for the updated edition.	2003-03-03
1209344:US	49355567	R15CV8YMN7EI0V	1569470480	936627134	The Souvenir	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A TRIP TO REMEMBER...	This mystery has a wonderful feel to it of a bygone time. First published in Great Britain in 1970, it was not published in the United States until 1995. Its author, Australian Patricia Carlon, is heralded for her crime novels. Fans of Ruth Rendell, in particular, should enjoy this well-written mystery.<br />The mystery revolves around two teenage girls, Peta Squire and Sandra Trilby. They meet up while each is going hitch-hiking. Peta is an experienced hitch-hiker, while Sandra is a novice. After teaming up, they discover that theirs is not a match made in heaven.<br />After cadging a ride from an elderly couple, one of them steals a pill box with medication that proves to be a matter and death for the wife. Discarding the incriminating pill box, which had been taken as a souvenir,  it is found by young children, leading to tragic circumstances.<br />A hunt is on for these two teenagers. Just as they are each about to go their own way, they argue violently. When a young man, Jack Burton, intervenes, he ends up being stabbed to death. But which of the two is responsible for this and the pill box incident?<br />Well, Peta and Sandra  point the finger at each other. Their stories remain unshakable, and the murder remains unsolved, as the police could not break either of their stories. Four years later, Marion Burton, sister to the deceased, hires Private Detective Jefferson Shields to crack the case. You see, Marion has fallen in love with Ward Wincham, Peta's step-brother, and she needs to know the truth before she can take the relationship to the next level.<br />What Jefferson Shields discovers may or may not surprise the reader. It depends on how good a detective the reader is. The clues are all laid out, but it may not be as easy as the reader thinks. This is a tautly written, densely plotted, intriguing page turner, which I could not put down, having started it.	2003-03-02
1210749:US	49355567	R3LFMKFHUHEXC8	0446611808	118908960	Envy	Books	5	114	122	N	N	WHEN PAST AND PRESENT COLLIDE...	This book was a most pleasant surprise. It is well-written with just the right infusion of tension to keep the reader turning its pages. While many of its twists and turns are predictable, not all are. There are enough surprises for even the most  jaded of readers.  It is a wonderful story-within-a-story of friendship, envy, betrayal, greed, revenge, love, and redemption.<br />Maris Matherly-Reed, an editor at prestigious Matherly Press, and scion of the head of this prestigious New York publishing house, Daniel Matherly, receives an unsolicited, anonymous manuscript entitled &quot;Envy&quot;. Pulling it out of the slush pile, this manuscript consists only of a prologue, but one so riveting and beautifully written, that Maris is intrigued enough to want to speak to its unknown but supremely talented author.  Leaving her husband, acclaimed author and fellow Matherly Press editor, Noah Reed, to mind the store, Maris decides to follow up on this mysterious, but intriguing, newcomer.<br />Having only an address for an Island off the Georgia coast, she goes there and encounters the crude and rude Parker Evans, the author of this potential literary gem. Marist makes allowances for his behavior, attributing it  to what she assumes to be bitterness over his being confined to a wheelchair.  As she gets to know Parker and discuss his book with him, more and more is revealed to her about his novel. It is a story of two friends who, in the late nineteen eighties, go on a boat for a celebratory jaunt  with a young woman, only to have it end tragically. As Maris begins to find herself attracted to Parker, little does she know that she is about to go on a voyage of personal self-discovery.<br />Meanwhile back in New York, unbeknownst to both his wife and father-in-law, or so he thinks, Noah Reed is plotting and planning a takeover of Matherly Reed by a corporate giant. He is also not behaving as a faithful husband would.  When Maris returns to New York, her old world appears to be falling apart. As the veil is torn from her eyes, she no longer sees her husband through rose colored glasses. She begins to wonder to whom  she is really married, as Noah reveals more of himself than she cares to know.<br />When Maris reads additional chapters in Parker's book, she gets a strong sense that the book may be a work of non-fiction rather than fiction. She also suspects that there may be a connection between herself and Parker that she had not before realized. As the story of the three young people on the boat develops, it becomes painfully clear that the past and present are on a collision course. The only question is whether Maris will realize it before it is too late, and the past collides with the present.<br />This is an ingeniously plotted novel, and Parker Evans is a very interesting character. The other characters are also fairly well fleshed out for such a plot driven book. Only the character of Noah Reed seems to be a cookie cutter character. As the book, however, is primarily plot driven, it does not unduly detract from such an otherwise engrossing novel of suspense.  Moreover, the literary contrivance of a story-within-a-story is very well done. The two parallel stories are both dramatic and interesting. Each serves to propel the book towards its climactic ending. All in all, it is very well done.falling apart. As the veil is torn from her eyes, she no longer sees her husband through rose colored glasses. She begins to wonder to whom  she is really married, as Noah reveals more of himself than she cares to know.<br />When Maris reads additional chapters in Parker's book, she gets a strong sense that the book may be a work of non-fiction rather than fiction. She also suspects that there may be a connection between herself and Parker that she had not before realized. As the story of the three young people on the boat develops, it becomes painfully clear that the past and present are on a collision course. The only question is whether Maris will realize it before it is too late, and the past collides with the present.<br />This is an ingeniously plotted novel, and Parker Evans is a very interesting character. The other characters are also fairly well fleshed out for such a plot driven book. Only the character of Noah Reed seems to be a cookie cutter character. As the book, however, is primarily plot driven, it does not unduly detract from such an otherwise engrossing novel of suspense.  Moreover, the literary contrivance of a story-within-a-story is very well done. The two parallel stories are both dramatic and interesting. Each serves to propel the book towards its climactic ending. All in all, it is very well done.	2003-03-01
1211133:US	49355567	R1O20F3282U9MR	0375725849	835505349	Perfume: The Story of a Murderer	Books	5	11	12	N	N	FEE, FIE, FOE, FUM...	This is a novel so beautifully written that it transcends into literature. Ingenious in its conception and carefully crafted, the author has created a unique and dazzling work of fiction. Divided into three parts, the book tells the story of a most unusual life, that of Jean-Baptiste Grenouille.<br />The first part of the book establishes that he was born to a woman who was hung from a gibbet for having left him to die. It turns out that Jean-Baptiste is an unusual baby. He gives people the willies, because, unlike most babies, Jean-Baptiste has no scent.<br />Over time, Jean-Baptiste develops into a boy with a secret gift. His olfactory sense is developed to a degree unheard of in humans. He delights in parsing the odors around him. Ugly, friendless, and a loner, he eventually ventures into the city of Paris, a malodorous and pungent cornucopia of smells. Believe me, there is plenty to sniff out in eighteenth century Paris! Jean-Baptiste savors each whiff, and the book conveys these olfactory delights with meticulous, descriptive precision.<br />His bleak existence is transformed, however,  when he one day captures a heady scent of such exquisite beauty that he finds himself obsessed with it. Determined to have that scent at all costs, he eventually sniffs it out. It turns out to be the scent of a young virgin on the cusp of flowering into a woman. It is a scent that he must possess. What he does to do so will surely chill the reader.<br />Jean-Baptiste eventually maneuvers to get himself apprenticed to a perfumer,  so that he can have the opportunity to learn the trade and create scents. He leads a bleak existence, subsisting as little more than a slave to the perfumer for whom he works.<br />The second part of the book begins when Jean-Baptiste leave his employer and goes on a personal pilgrimage, leading an austere existence away from civilization for many years. There, he withdraws into himself even further, living a totally self-sustaining, hermitic existence. He ultimately realizes what other have sensed about him. Jean-Baptiste has no personal scent. He simply does not smell.<br />With this knowledge, he returns to civilization where, having lived as practically an animal for many years, he creates a fictitious and adventurous scenario to account for his filthy and disgusting appearance. Subsequently, he is taken under the wing of some local nobility and feted and pampered. Realizing the importance of scent, he creates a personal scent for himself. He now realizes that he who has the power over scent can rule supreme. He intends to do so.<br />The third part of the book has Jean-Baptiste migrating to a town that is the hub for the scent trade. Perfumes, oils, and soaps are the stock in trade for this town and, as such, beckon brightly to Jean-Baptiste. Once there, he again smells a scent so delectable that he longs to possess it. He knows that scent for what it is and now knows that it is the scent, and not the personal charms of its bearer, that captures the attention and devotion of others. Jean Baptiste wants to harness that scent at all costs. He desperately desires the power to make others love him. He wants to be supreme.<br />It is his desperate desire to harness and possess that celestial scent that causes Jean-Baptiste, a socio-path with little empathy for others, to prey upon the maidens of the town in order to obtain that which he needs. It is his obsession that lays at the heart of the vortex that arises in the town, as murder after murder occurs. Yet, no one suspects him. What ultimately happens leads to an almost unbelievable climax, when Jean-Baptiste finds himself consumed by the passion he has managed to arouse in others through scent.<br />This is a heady, quirky, and compelling debut novel, like nothing I have ever before read. Complex and lyrical in its telling, it is a novel that stays with the reader long after the last page is turned. Bravo!He ultimately realizes what other have sensed about him. Jean-Baptiste has no personal scent. He simply does not smell.<br />With this knowledge, he returns to civilization where, having lived as practically an animal for many years, he creates a fictitious and adventurous scenario to account for his filthy and disgusting appearance. Subsequently, he is taken under the wing of some local nobility and feted and pampered. Realizing the importance of scent, he creates a personal scent for himself. He now realizes that he who has the power over scent can rule supreme. He intends to do so.<br />The third part of the book has Jean-Baptiste migrating to a town that is the hub for the scent trade. Perfumes, oils, and soaps are the stock in trade for this town and, as such, beckon brightly to Jean-Baptiste. Once there, he again smells a scent so delectable that he longs to possess it. He knows that scent for what it is and now knows that it is the scent, and not the personal charms of its bearer, that captures the attention and devotion of others. Jean Baptiste wants to harness that scent at all costs. He desperately desires the power to make others love him. He wants to be supreme.<br />It is his desperate desire to harness and possess that celestial scent that causes Jean-Baptiste, a socio-path with little empathy for others, to prey upon the maidens of the town in order to obtain that which he needs. It is his obsession that lays at the heart of the vortex that arises in the town, as murder after murder occurs. Yet, no one suspects him. What ultimately happens leads to an almost unbelievable climax, when Jean-Baptiste finds himself consumed by the passion he has managed to arouse in others through scent.<br />This is a heady, quirky, and compelling debut novel, like nothing I have ever before read. Complex and lyrical in its telling, it is a novel that stays with the reader long after the last page is turned. Bravo!	2003-03-01
1222588:US	49355567	R1VTJ5TODLBCXD	0451406095	924693661	Before He Wakes: A True Story of Money, Marriage, Sex and Murder	Books	5	23	23	N	Y	MARRIAGE...MONEY...MURDER...	This is a well-researched, well-written book that devotees of the true crime genre will enjoy. The author, Jerry Bledsoe, is right up there with the other true crime greats, Jack Olsen and Ann Rule. The book, which contains eight pages of photographs, reveals an astounding tapestry of deceit, lies, and greed, all of which led to a cold blooded murder of a husband by his seemingly devoted wife.<br />Barbara Stager was a middle-aged woman with expensive tastes. Unfortunately, she and her husband Russ, a high school coach, did not earn the kind of money that could pay for the finer things in life. She needed money. He was insured. So, this church going, ostensibly devoted wife and mother, shot her husband while he slept, claiming that it was an accident. Funny thing, almost the same thing had happened to her first husband, who had died in bed of a gunshot wound, when a gun she claimed he was handling went off accidentally.<br />The investigation following the death of her second husband revealed a web of lies and a private woman far different from her public image. Barbara Stagers was a woman given to sexual licentiousness, excess spending, thievery, and compulsive lying. The investigation of the murder of Russ Stager led the police to believe that the death of her first husband, Larry Ford, a death that had originally been classified as accidental, was also almost certainly murder. The scary thing is that she almost got away with it a second time. This book is a fascinating look at a real life, black widow.	2003-02-19
1236961:US	49355567	R1IYFONPZ31ACQ	0449200523	586033111	The Queen from Provence (The Plantagenet Saga)	Books	5	21	21	N	Y	THE HATED QUEEN...	Jean Plaidy, also known to her legion of fans as Victoria Holt, will delight her fans with this, the sixth book in her well-written, fifteen book Plantagenet saga. As are all her books in the popular Plantagenet series, it is replete with vividly drawn historical events and persons. The author weaves a stirring medieval tapestry, focusing on the wife of King Henry III of England, Eleanor of Provence.<br />Eleanor was one of the four beautiful, well-educated, and accomplished daughters of the impoverished Count of Provence. When the eldest, Marguerite,  married King Louis IX of France, Eleanor soon followed with a king of her own, Henry III of England. The other two younger sisters later married into the royal houses of France and England. Sanchia married Richard of Cornwall, brother to Henry III, while Beatrice married Charles, the Count of Anjou, brother to Louis IX.<br />Eleanor, a headstrong, and imperious woman, won the heart of King Henry III, turning him into the most uxorious of husbands. A weak king, he was the most devoted of husbands, happiest when he could be with his Queen and their family. Eleanor, although a devoted mother to their children, led Henry by the nose, making insatiable demands upon the exchequer for money, jewels, luxurious clothing, and lavish gifts for her and her family from Provence. The besotted king was more than happy to grant his beloved wife's desires, even at great cost to his subjects, who despised this greedy Queen from Provence, known for her wild extravagance. She, in turn, would despise her subjects, treating them with contempt and seeing them only as a source of unlimited funds.<br />This, of course, eventually led to unrest throughout England, as well as a revolt led by Simon De Montfort, who was married to the sister to King Henry III. Simon de Montfort desired to form a parliament that would represent the people and ensure that laws would be passed that were just. He called for an end to the crippling taxation that was imposed upon the people of England in order to support the greedy and parasitic Provencal relations of the Queen, as well as the King's foreign born half-brothers and sisters. He also desired their ouster from positions of power and influence in England. He would eventually take King Henry III and his heir, Edward, as prisoners.<br />Edward, who would be known as Edward Longshanks because of his great height, was the handsome, beloved son of King Henry III and Queen Eleanor. He would escape his imprisonment and defeat Simon de Montfort and his forces, ensuring the return of control over England to his grateful father. Edward quelled the rebellion, showing himself to have none of his father's weaknesses. Though the English had despised King Henry III and his avaricious Queen, they were delighted with the heir to the throne, who would go on to rule England as King Edward I.mposed upon the people of England in order to support the greedy and parasitic Provencal relations of the Queen, as well as the King's foreign born half-brothers and sisters. He also desired their ouster from positions of power and influence in England. He would eventually take King Henry III and his heir, Edward, as prisoners.<br />Edward, who would be known as Edward Longshanks because of his great height, was the handsome, beloved son of King Henry III and Queen Eleanor. He would escape his imprisonment and defeat Simon de Montfort and his forces, ensuring the return of control over England to his grateful father. Edward quelled the rebellion, showing himself to have none of his father's weaknesses. Though the English had despised King Henry III and his avaricious Queen, they were delighted with the heir to the throne, who would go on to rule England as King Edward I.	2003-02-07
1237837:US	49355567	R6YZ7XKH88CHA	1590070216	829942416	Mary Stuart Queen of Scots	Books	4	7	7	N	N	THE QUEEN WHO RULED WITH HER HEART AND LOST HER HEAD...	This audio book is available only in an abridged version. While I normally do not care to bother with abridged audio books, I am a big fan of Mary Stuart, the hapless Queen of Scots, as well as a Julie Christie fan, so I was game to try it.<br />This audio book was better than I thought it would be, given that it is abridged. This is in large part due to Julie Christie's rousing reading. Ms. Christie reads with great spirit and verve, her diction crystal clear. She seamlessly transitions between Scottish and English accents, infusing the characters with distinct personalities and creating a sense of atmosphere. Ms. Christie simply does a beautiful job reading this book.<br />This book by Alexandre Dumas is very good, though literary license is evidently taken. It encompasses Mary's early childhood, her sojourn in France, her return to Scotland as Queen, the intrusion of fire and brimstone religious reformer, John Knox, into the political arena, the perfidy of James, her illegitimate half-brother, the unhappy marriage to Lord Darnley and his murder, her alliance with Lord Bothwell, abdication, exile in England, and execution.<br />The time spent focusing on Mary's last will and testament, however, is inordinately long and somewhat puzzling. It would probably have been better spent focusing more on her alliance with Lord Bothwell or on the political perfidy of her power hungry, illegitimate half-brother, James. Both would play a large part in Mary's downfall and ultimate loss of the throne of Scotland.<br />Still, for those who are fans of Mary Stuart and for those who would like a brief and breezy overview of her life, this abridged audio book might just be the ticket. The book is contained on four cassettes, which provide six hours of reading pleasure.	2003-02-07
1243852:US	49355567	RYO11A3IA8GJR	1590862910	193551147	The Pillars of the Earth	Books	5	182	223	N	N	A RIVETING STORY OF LIFE IN TWELFTH CENTURY ENGLAND...	This masterful saga of life in twelfth century England is epic storytelling at its best. The author weaves a rich and colorful tapestry of people, places, and events surrounding the building of a magnificent cathedral in the medieval town of Kingsbridge.<br /><br />Early twelfth century England was a country in a state of flux. King Henry I had died without a male heir. His daughter Maude was to be queen. The English barons, for the most part, however, refused to swear fealty to her. Maude's first cousin, Stephen of Blois, then usurped her rights and proclaimed himself king. This was to plunge England into a civil war that was to last for many, many years, turning England into a virtually lawless and tumultuous land, until Maude's son became King Henry II of England.<br /><br />For most people, however, life would go on with every day concerns being paramount. The book tells the story of a number of these lives. One story is that of Tom, a master builder, whose life long dream was to build a cathedral. The lives of Tom and his family would intersect that of a humble and intelligent monk named Phillip who would become the prior at Kingsbridge Priory. The fates would intervene and provide Tom with an opportunity to pursue his dream.<br /><br />Their lives would intersect with a number of other individuals, some good, some evil, who would have a great impact on their lives and their goals. Tom would lose his first wife, Agnes, by whom he already had two children, brutish Alfred and sweet Martha, due to complications sustained during the birth of another son. This son was to provide a connection between Tom and Phillip of which Phillip would long be unaware.<br /><br />Tom would ultimately marry Ellen, a strong willed independent woman of the forest, perceived by many to be a witch. Her son Jack, a sensitive, highly intelligent lad, whose father was deceased, would grow to manhood. His dream would begin where Tom's had left off. In Jack's background, however, was a mystery surrounding his deceased father, a French jongleur. That mystery in some way involved Sir Percy Hamleigh, Waleran Bigod, and Prior James, the old prior of Kingsbridge before Phillip.<br /><br />When Earl Bartholomew of Shiring makes the treasonous mistake of siding with Maude in the conflict with Stephen, he ends up on the losing side. Sir Percy Hamleigh and his son William, siding with Stephen, attack the Earl's castle, and take Earl Bartholomew captive. Imprisoned for treason, he loses his earldom to the Hamleighs. His young son and heir, Richard, and his daughter, the beautiful Lady Aliena, are left to fend for themselves, but not until William Hamleigh has slaked his thirst for revenge upon them. You see, William had been engaged at one time to marry the Lady Aliena, only to be spurned by her to his vast public humiliation. This was the moment for which he had been waiting. Aliena and Richard would ultimately migrate to Kingsbridge to begin a new life.<br /><br />Meanwhile, the church itself was having its own political intrigues. Phillip was tricked by Waleran Bigod, an ambitious arch-deacon, into supporting him for the post of bishop. Phillip would later best Waleran and incur his enmity for a lifetime. Remigius, a spy for Waleran Bigod, was a monk at Kingsbridge Priory who saw his dream of becoming prior at Kingsbridge dissipate with the advent of Phillip. He would spend a lifetime undermining Phillip and plotting against him. Moreover, the fate of Kingsbridge and the building of its cathedral would always seem to hinge upon the political vagaries of the time. Its fortunes would ebb and flow with the political winds.<br /><br />Ever present throughout the destinies of all these characters is the age old battle between good and evil. Complicating it further were those who sought to do good but did evil, believing that the end justified the means. Spanning over fifty turbulent years, this is a spellbinding story of love, hate, faith, betrayal, revenge, andtriumph. Against a backdrop of civil war, the sharply drawn characters grasp the imagination of the reader. Twelfth century England is laid out in painstaking detail, providing an unforgettable backdrop for the lives lived within the pages of this memorable work of historical fiction.<br /><br />I loved this book so much that, having read it a number of years ago, I decided that it would be worth listening to an unabridged audio book version. Well, this book was made to be read aloud. The narrator, George Ralph, does a masterful job reading this spellbinding story. For thirty hours of pure listening pleasure, he holds the listener totally in his thrall, bringing to life all within its pages. This book is simply riveting. Bravo!triumph. Against a backdrop of civil war, the sharply drawn characters grasp the imagination of the reader. Twelfth century England is laid out in painstaking detail, providing an unforgettable backdrop for the lives lived within the pages of this memorable work of historical fiction.<br /><br />I loved this book so much that, having read it a number of years ago, I decided that it would be worth listening to an unabridged audio book version. Well, this book was made to be read aloud. The narrator, George Ralph, does a masterful job reading this spellbinding story. For thirty hours of pure listening pleasure, he holds the listener totally in his thrall, bringing to life all within its pages. This book is simply riveting. Bravo!	2003-02-02
1244088:US	49355567	RIO09NR61VYMD	8466308822	85719841	Buena Suerte (Punto de Lectura) (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	TAKE ME HOME...COUNTRY HOME...	Having read a number of David Baldacci's books, most of which are well written, engrossing thrillers, this one is quite different. It is not a thriller but, rather, a beautifully written, human drama, most of which takes place in the mountains of Virginia. The richness of the drama and the beauty of the writing conveys the down home sense of feeling that is so palpable in this book.<br />This is a coming of age story. It is the story of the Cardinal family, as seen through the young eyes of twelve year old Louisa Mae Cardinal, known as Lou, a precocious twelve year old, whose father is a highly acclaimed writer of note with great literary distinction but little commercial success. She lives with her beloved father, her mother, and her younger brother, Oz, in New York City. The year is 1940. The family is on the brink of moving to California, when tragedy strikes, and the lives of Lou, Oz, and their mother are forever changed.<br />Lou, Oz, and their now catatonic mother go to live with their paternal great-grandmother, Louisa, for whom Lou is named. This no nonsense, strong willed, loving matriarch lives high up in the Appalachian mountains of Virginia, where Lou's father grew up, and that is where Lou and Oz will now grow up. They are strangers in a strange land, big city children now living on a farm without electricity, running water, or central heat. It is there that Lou comes of age and, together with her brother, Oz, has many new experiences. They are experiences that provide rights of passage and life lessons in friendship, loyalty, loss, and redemption. She gets a large dose of the good, the bad, and the ugly in life.<br />While there, big business threatens their way of life and pits the townsfolk against each other in a struggle for survival. It is a struggle that sees Louisa take a stance that will, ultimately, be the death of her, leaving the children to cope with their mother, who is physically sound, but locked in her own mind since the tragedy that changed their lives forever. The interests of big business and those of the Cardinal family clash in a Virginia courtroom in a riveting drama that is not easily forgotten. With the help of a family friend, a humble and kindly, country lawyer, things are, eventually, put to rights.<br />This well written book has richly drawn characters and a sensitive and descriptive narrative that transports the reader to another time and place. It is so evocative of the hardscrabble, mountain existence, so as to make the readers feel as if they, themselves, were experiencing it. It is a sentimental journey that is calculated to tug at one's heartstrings. It is a journey, however, well worth taking. With this book, the author has set himself apart from the pack and proclaimed himself a true literary talent.anged their lives forever. The interests of big business and those of the Cardinal family clash in a Virginia courtroom in a riveting drama that is not easily forgotten. With the help of a family friend, a humble and kindly, country lawyer, things are, eventually, put to rights.<br />This well written book has richly drawn characters and a sensitive and descriptive narrative that transports the reader to another time and place. It is so evocative of the hardscrabble, mountain existence, so as to make the readers feel as if they, themselves, were experiencing it. It is a sentimental journey that is calculated to tug at one's heartstrings. It is a journey, however, well worth taking. With this book, the author has set himself apart from the pack and proclaimed himself a true literary talent.	2003-02-02
1244150:US	49355567	R1HG7O7FLSIAYX	1570429782	86074799	Hidden Treasures: Searching for Masterpieces of American Furniture	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	CALLING ALL &quot;ANTIQUES ROADSHOW&quot; FANS!...	If you are familiar with Leigh Keno and Leslie Keno, the charming, identical twin brothers who often appear as appraisers on the popular &quot;Antiques Roadshow&quot; television program, then you will undoubtedly enjoy this audio book.<br />While authors do not generally make good readers or narrators of their own works, the Keno twins are the exception to the rule. Just as they do on the &quot;Antiques Roadshow&quot;, the twins convey their unbridled enthusiasm for antique American furniture. Their passion is contagious and makes one a truly captive audience. I had purchased this audio book for a road trip and could barely tear myself away from the car until I had finished the audio book in its entirety, as it is so interesting and entertaining.<br />Born in rural, Mohawk Valley in upstate New York, the twins developed their passion at the feet of their parents who had dabbled in this field. At a very young age, searching for old objects with a history  was a hobby that developed into a passion. As teenagers, flea markets were their stomping grounds. As they grew up, they developed by inclination and education into worldly and sophisticated connoisseurs of beautiful rare objects, specializing in antique American furniture, a niche in which they are now foremost experts.<br />The audio book takes you on the hunt of some of their most prized acquisitions. With an insider's look at the wonderful world of collecting antique American furniture, the twins take the listener on a journey that few would otherwise be able make, as many of their most prized acquisitions bring in six and seven figure sums. The excitement of the hunt, the thrill of the discovery of a valuable piece of antique American furniture, the history of its provenance, and the loving description of the beauty of that piece, all provide a fascinating peek into the rarified world of antiques in which the twins work.<br />The tone of the book is conversationally chatty and educational. The twins have a wonderful, innate ability to draw the listener into their exclusive world. Their down to earth charm is a delicious counterpoint to the exquisite and rare pieces that they have come across, all of which they share with the listener in detail, lovingly describing the craftsmanship that went into making these beautiful pieces that are so collectible today. This audio book comes with a full color pamphlet that pictorially details the pieces that are the focus of this abridged audio book and serves to enhance this most enjoyable listening experience.erful, innate ability to draw the listener into their exclusive world. Their down to earth charm is a delicious counterpoint to the exquisite and rare pieces that they have come across, all of which they share with the listener in detail, lovingly describing the craftsmanship that went into making these beautiful pieces that are so collectible today. This audio book comes with a full color pamphlet that pictorially details the pieces that are the focus of this abridged audio book and serves to enhance this most enjoyable listening experience.	2003-02-01
1244726:US	49355567	RCDC6MKRYGLSL	039912604X	878257108	The Battle of the Queens (The Plantagenet Saga, Book 5)	Books	4	25	27	N	Y	THE POWER BEHIND THE THRONE...	In this, her fifth book in the Plantagenet series, Jean Plaidy, renowned writer of historical fiction also known to her devoted fans as Victoria Holt, tackles the two most powerful women of the early thirteenth century, Isabella of Angouleme, the Dowager Queen of England, and Blanche, the Dowager Queen of France.<br />The heartbreakingly beautiful and sensual Isabella, a woman with little motherly instincts, had been married to King John of England, the most depraved, dissolute, and evil tyrant ever to rule over England, when she was just a child of twelve. John had been the youngest son of Eleanor of Aquitaine and King Henry II of England. Unfortunately, he did not follow in the footsteps of his father in terms of his ability to govern his widespread kingdom. When John died a mysterious death, both Isabella and England were freed from his tyranny, and his and Isabella's eldest son, though a mere boy of nine at the time, became King Henry III of England. Isabella was now the Dowager Queen of England.<br />Meanwhile, across the English Channel in France, Blanche, the granddaughter of Eleanor of Aquitaine and King Henry II of England,  had married Louis VIII of France. Her grandmother, Eleanor of Aquitaine, had handpicked her for that explicit purpose, as Eleanor had sensed in Blanche one such as she, a person with the wit and drive to be a strong queen.  The marriage of Blanche and Louis had been a happy one, until an untimely death took Louis, who had been a well-meaning, though weak, king. Their handsome son, Louis, would become King Louis IX of France at the age of twelve. The beautiful Blanche, a virtuous and regal woman, was now the Dowager Queen of France.<br />When Isabella and Blanche would meet, it was clear that neither woman had much love for the other. When King John of England died, Isabella remarried Count Hugh of Lusignan, the man to whom she had originally been betrothed a lifetime ago, before King John had abducted her and made her his child bride. The fact that Joanna, her daughter with John, was now betrothed to Hugh did not deter Isabella from her determination to marry her first love. So, in addition to being the Dowager Queen of England, Isabella became a Countess through her marriage to Hugh, who was a vassal of France.<br />This was an untenable situation for Isabella, who despised Blanche and refused to give her and her son the homage that they were due. Isabella ruled her husband Hugh through her ability to provide many amorous and sensuous delights, causing him to commit many grave errors in judgment that were to cause much disharmony in his life. Isabella was single-minded in her determination to cause Blanche as much trouble as possible. She plotted and intrigued against the French crown and no perfidy was too great, encouraging her son, Henry, to try to regain the lands that his father, King John, had recklessly lost to the French.  Blanche, however, was not oblivious to Isabella's hatred of her and, being a clever woman, made the necessary moves to keep her in check. One day, however, Isabella went too far and attempted the ultimate act of treason. It was an act that was to cause the tempestuous Isabella of Angouleme to come to an ignominious end.<br />This is a well-written and interesting work of historical fiction, revolving around two women who wielded a great deal of influence in early thirteenth century England and France. Replete with historical detail, the author paints a living picture of the political intrigues of the day. Historical figures are made three dimensional, adding a vibrancy to this enjoyable book, which those who love historical fiction of this period should enjoy.he fact that Joanna, her daughter with John, was now betrothed to Hugh did not deter Isabella from her determination to marry her first love. So, in addition to being the Dowager Queen of England, Isabella became a Countess through her marriage to Hugh, who was a vassal of France.<br />This was an untenable situation for Isabella, who despised Blanche and refused to give her and her son the homage that they were due. Isabella ruled her husband Hugh through her ability to provide many amorous and sensuous delights, causing him to commit many grave errors in judgment that were to cause much disharmony in his life. Isabella was single-minded in her determination to cause Blanche as much trouble as possible. She plotted and intrigued against the French crown and no perfidy was too great, encouraging her son, Henry, to try to regain the lands that his father, King John, had recklessly lost to the French.  Blanche, however, was not oblivious to Isabella's hatred of her and, being a clever woman, made the necessary moves to keep her in check. One day, however, Isabella went too far and attempted the ultimate act of treason. It was an act that was to cause the tempestuous Isabella of Angouleme to come to an ignominious end.<br />This is a well-written and interesting work of historical fiction, revolving around two women who wielded a great deal of influence in early thirteenth century England and France. Replete with historical detail, the author paints a living picture of the political intrigues of the day. Historical figures are made three dimensional, adding a vibrancy to this enjoyable book, which those who love historical fiction of this period should enjoy.	2003-02-01
1256538:US	49355567	R2S2CEOZW2GV9O	0553061208	558069601	Los Fantasmas del Everest: La Busqueda de Mallory (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	DID THEY OR DIDN'T THEY?...	This is a beautifully and lavishly illustrated, textually rich book. Its glossy pages demand the reader's undivided attention and are sure to enthrall all mystery lovers, Everest aficionados, nostalgia junkies, history buffs, and climbing enthusiasts. This book is sure to provide the reader with many hours of enjoyment.<br />The book chronicles the search for George Mallory and Andrew Irvine by the 1999 Mallory &amp; Irvine Research Expedition. It juxtaposes the dramatic turn of events during their expedition with those of the 1924 British Everest Expedition which saw Mallory and Irvine attempt a summit climb, only to disappear into the mists of Everest, never to be seen again. It makes for a spell binding narrative, as past events are woven through present day ones.<br />The 1999 Mallory &amp; Irvine Research Expedition was a meticulously well-prepared and well-organized venture. With its discovery of George Leigh Mallory's body, it enjoyed much success. The research and analysis that went into its ultimate, well thought out conclusions were comprehensive and fascinating, with its strong reliance upon forensics and deductive reasoning. Their reconstruction of Mallory's and Irvine's last climb is riveting. Unfortunately, the ultimate question still remains unanswered. Did they or did they not reach the summit of Mount Everest back in 1924?<br />The beautiful photographs of the personal effects found upon Mallory's person underscore a certain poignancy about the discovery of Mallory's well preserved body. The photographs, which memorialize this discovery, are amazingly lovely and tasteful, considering its subject matter, and hauntingly illustrate the finality with which Everest may deal with mountaineers, no matter how accomplished.<br />The photographs also highlight how ill equipped for the harsh climatic conditions were the early Everest expeditions. It is amazing, and a credit to those early expeditioners' courage and fortitude, in braving such an inhospitable and harsh terrain with the inadequate clothing and equipment available to them at the time. Mallory and Irvine were certainly intrepid explorers!<br />This book is a fitting tribute to two men who sought to make a historic summit and, in their attempt, would forever be a part of Everest.d harsh terrain with the inadequate clothing and equipment available to them at the time. Mallory and Irvine were certainly intrepid explorers!<br />This book is a fitting tribute to two men who sought to make a historic summit and, in their attempt, would forever be a part of Everest.	2003-01-22
1256708:US	49355567	R1I78C43XMCPXU	0399131027	423743259	Victoria Victorious (Queens of England, 3rd)	Books	5	30	32	N	Y	THE QUEEN WHO GAVE HER NAME TO AN ERA...	This is the third volume in Jean Plaidy's well-written \\"Queens of England\\" series of books. In it, the author details the life and reign of Queen Victoria, from her rise as a young, sheltered princess to a Queen who would give her name to an era. For over sixty years, Victoria ruled over England, longer than any monarch before her or since.<br />As in all the books in the \\"Queens of England\\" series, it is written in a first person narrative, creating an intimacy of style that makes the book all the more compelling and immensely readable.  Replete with fascinating period detail, political machinations, public personages, and historical events that were a part of Queen Victoria's life, the author builds a sympathetic, three dimensional portrait of a woman and queen.<br />The author recounts the early years of Victoria and her ascension to the throne, firmly rooting the house of Hanover in English history. She takes the reader through the Queen's marriage to Prince Albert from their early innocent, halcyon days to the later, more troubled ones that would give fruit to a mature and abiding love that would span a lifetime. The book recounts the births of their numerous children, and the joys and sorrows that they would bring Victoria. The premature death of her husband at the age of forty, however, would mark Victoria for the remainder of her long life.<br />The often fractious relationships Victoria would have with some of her Prime Ministers is recounted, as are the one ones that were more harmonious. Familial relationships, scandals, and intrigues would also have their impact, not just on Victoria's immediate family, but on the monarchy and the world, as well. Such is the lot of a royal family, and Victoria's was no different. World events and their effect on the British Empire also pepper this book, and at the center of it all was the indomitable Queen Victoria, a monarch for the ages.<br />This is a wonderful book that those with a penchant for historical fiction will, no doubt, enjoy. Ms. Plaidy is a master storyteller, seamlessly weaving a tapestry of events and personalities that make this book one to be savored.ll, no doubt, enjoy. Ms. Plaidy is a master storyteller, seamlessly weaving a tapestry of events and personalities that make this book one to be savored.	2003-01-22
1256809:US	49355567	R170R3IYEF5PCX	0709146981	628057309	The Revolt of the Eaglets	Books	4	18	23	N	Y	THE WORLD'S FOREMOST DYSFUNCTIONAL FAMILY...	Jean Plaidy, world-renowned historical novelist, in this, the second book of her Plantagenet saga, chronicles the dysfunctional family of King Henry II of England and his Queen, Eleanor of Acquitaine, and their four sons, Henry, Richard, Geoffrey, and John. In many ways, it is reminiscent of the film, \\"A Lion in Winter\\".<br />This twelfth century family was a family at war with itself. The father, King Henry II, had mistresses, a situation that put him at odds with his headstrong, opinionated, and proud wife, Eleanor of Aquitaine, who had nothing good to say about him once she discovered his perfidy and unfaithfulness and realized that it had taken place right under her very nose. As part of her revenge, she created a rift between the King and their sons. She had trained her eaglets to pluck out the eyes of the eagle. She aggravated Henry so much that finally held her in captivity.<br />His oldest son and namesake, Henry, whom he had crowned King, so that there would be an orderly transition upon his death, would not wait for his father to die so that he could take the reigns of power. He wanted the reigns and trappings of a king immediately and literally waged war upon his father. This would one day cost them both dearly, as Henry would not live to reap the fruit of his coronation.<br />Richard, Eleanor's favorite and beloved son, loathed his father and there was no love lost between them. Yet, he is the son who was probably most king-like in his bearing. To add insult to injury, his father took Richard's betrothed, Alice, the young daughter of the King of France, as his mistress when she was no more than a child. This was really no skin off Richard's back, even though it was insulting, as Richard really hankered after Alice's brother, Philip, the future king of France with whom Richard had a \\"special\\" relationship.<br />Geoffrey would join his brother Henry and take up arms against his father. John, the youngest, would play upon his father's sensibilities and make Henry think that John was someone other than what he truly was, a cruel, craven, and dissolute youth. So much so did John fool him, that Henry eventually declared that John was to be his successor to the throne, incurring Richard's lifelong enmity.<br />It would be Eleanor who would have the last laugh, however, as she would survive her captivity and, even though she was about twelve years Henry's senior, she would also survive Henry. Eleanor would go on to see her favorite son, Richard the Lionhearted, crowned King of England.<br />This is an engrossing and enjoyable work of historical fiction.Henry think that John was someone other than what he truly was, a cruel, craven, and dissolute youth. So much so did John fool him, that Henry eventually declared that John was to be his successor to the throne, incurring Richard's lifelong enmity.<br />It would be Eleanor who would have the last laugh, however, as she would survive her captivity and, even though she was about twelve years Henry's senior, she would also survive Henry. Eleanor would go on to see her favorite son, Richard the Lionhearted, crowned King of England.<br />This is an engrossing and enjoyable work of historical fiction.	2003-01-22
1256823:US	49355567	R183W4XX785PGE	0399136002	359860819	It Began in Vauxhall Gardens	Books	4	9	9	N	N	TRUTH IS STRANGER THAN FICTION...	This book is based upon a true story that occurred in nineteenth century England that went on to become one of its most notorious scandals. It is a gripping account of the events that impacted upon a young woman's life and her resolution of the seemingly insoluble.<br />This engrossing, historical fiction details the life of an exquisitely beautiful, young girl, Melisande St. Martin, who is brought up in a French convent, not knowing who her parents are. One day, when she is a young teenager, an Englishman whom she has seen in town from time to time, Sir Charles Trevenning, goes to the convent. Claiming to be her guardian, though he is, in fact, her father, he takes Melisande to England with him, his wife having died, so that she can be a companion to his legitimate daughter, Caroline.<br />So begins Melisande's bizarre odyssey in life. After the grimness of life in the French convent, Melisande is thrilled by the promise of a new, more secular, life in a grand manor house in Cornwall. All, however, is not what it seems. As soon as Melisande arrives, she captures the unwanted attentions of Fermor, Caroline's devastatingly handsome fiance, incurring Caroline's bitter jealousy. Melisande tries to escape his attentions by developing a relationship with a French expatriate, Leon de la Roche, only to find that he, too, has issues.<br />Ultimately, through the gossip of the servants, Melisande discovers that the kindly gentleman, whom she thought was her guardian, is, in fact, her father. He, wishing to preserve his reputation and avoid scandal, sends the still innocent Melisande to London, placing her in the care of Fennella, a wealthy and kindly woman of dubious reputation. There, things do not go according to plan, and Melisande leaves Fennella's home, finding a position as lady's maid to a Mrs. Lavender. It is in the Lavender's home that she makes the acquaintance of a yet another man who is to disappoint her. Their relationship would culminate in an event that would find eighteen year old Melisande standing trial for murder.find eighteen year old Melisande standing trial for murder.	2003-01-22
1256966:US	49355567	R2ZNDJUYY8PG5E	039912554X	628057309	The Prince of Darkness (Plantagenet Saga, Book 4)	Books	5	18	23	N	N	THE DEVIL MADE HIM DO IT...	Jean Plaidy, also known to her legion of devoted fans as Victoria Holt, has written an absorbing account of the reign of King John, a depraved,  dissolute monarch whose tyranny was absolute.<br />Son of iron fisted King Henry II of England and his headstrong wife, Eleanor of Aquitaine, John was their youngest son. When his older brother, King Richard the Lionhearted, died without an heir, there were two who laid claim to the crown of England: Richard's nephew, Arthur, who was the son of John's older, now deceased brother, Geoffrey, and Richard's youngest brother, John.<br />Arthur had not been brought up in England. He had, instead, been raised as a Breton and was foreign to English ways. Moreover, he was a mere pubescent child of thirteen. Fearing that the people of England would not flock to Arthur's banner and thinking John to have precedence over his older brother's son for purposes of succession, William Marshal, the most respected knight in England, gave John's cause his support, and where William Marshal would lead, others would follow. Thus, John was crowned King, a black day in English history.<br />John would turn out to be a cruel and evil tyrant, more given to indulging in debauchery than to securing the kingdom over which he reigned. Foolish and dissolute, he prefered to rape, pillage, torture, and murder than to apply himself to statesmanship and governance. Lascivious by nature, he abducted a beautiful twelve year old girl, Isabel of Angouleme, who was betrothed to another, and made her his child bride and queen. Together they would sport, while his kingdom fell apart.<br />As for Arthur, let's just say that the kid never even had a fighting chance. In the end, however, John, himself, and not Arthur, would be his own worst enemy. John would lose the great possessions for which his ancestors had fought, and, for a time, even England's fate was made precarious by John's failure to rule effectively.<br />The lurid details of King John's reign make for an absorbing and compelling work of historical fiction. The author seamlessly weaves historical events and persons into a tapestry replete with period detail that fully engages the reader. Devotees of historical fiction will certainly enjoy this novel, which is part of the author's fifteen book Plantagenet saga.absorbing and compelling work of historical fiction. The author seamlessly weaves historical events and persons into a tapestry replete with period detail that fully engages the reader. Devotees of historical fiction will certainly enjoy this novel, which is part of the author's fifteen book Plantagenet saga.	2003-01-22
1257136:US	49355567	R148EWOGO0W9CI	5553672449	685797483	Katie Mulholland-V1	Books	5	0	0	N	N	FROM RAGS TO RICHES...	This well-crafted novel by a master storyteller weaves the spellbinding tale of beautiful Katie Mulholland, who began life as the daughter of a miner. The life of a miner in class conscious, mid nineteenth century England was fraught with poverty, and Katie was forced to go into service at a tender age in order to help her family. Her story begins in 1860 which, at the age of fifteen, finds her working long, hard hours in a manor house, as a scullery maid for the Rosier family, who are members of the local gentry and owners of the mine for which her father works.<br />Due to her beauty she, unfortunately, catches the eye of her employer's handsome and evil son, Bernard Rosier, the heir to the Rosier Mining Company. All, however, goes well, until one night Bernard decides to slake his lust upon the unwilling and shocked Katie. It would be the beginning of a hateful obsession with Katie that would cast a long shadow and haunt both their lives.<br />Bernard's unspeakable act is the catalyst for a series of events, some quite shocking, that would ultimately have far reaching impact on the entire Mulholland family. Heavy with child, Katie is dismissed by her employer and gulled into a loveless marriage with William Bunting, the manager of the Rosier mines. Katie gives birth to a daughter, whom she names Sarah. After the birth, Bunting's cruelty to Katie goes into full swing. A murder, which would release her from the bonds of marriage, soon follows. This event, however, leads to a travesty of justice that would take the life of one near and dear to Katie.<br />With her remaining family, Katie leaves for greener pastures and begins what is to be a long and hard odyssey to a better life. What happens along life's path to Katie and those whom she loves and love her makes for a riveting story. It is a tale of great sorrow, hope, love, hatred, betrayal, and, ultimately, redemption. What happens to Katie and her progeny is a rags to riches story that will keep the reader turning the pages into the wee hours of the night.ng the pages into the wee hours of the night.	2003-01-22
1257929:US	49355567	RTOZJ88HRLF8W	0812575911	76242400	Elixir	Books	5	4	4	N	N	TO BE OR NOT TO BE...	The author has written a great bio-technical thriller that will have the reader glued to the pages of the book until the end. It is a well-written, highly suspenseful novel that heralds a novelist whose prose is spare, lean, and taut, moving the story along at a brisk pace. Fans of Michael Crichton and Robin Cook will, undoubtedly, enjoy this well paced thriller, as will anyone who appreciates a great story.<br />This is, however, a plot driven novel, rather than character driven. As such, the characters, at times, may not seem fully fleshed. This is no matter, as the characters serve to move the plot along, and a very intriguing plot it is. What would you do if you were offered a chance to drink from the fountain of youth?<br />That is just the opportunity that is offered to Christopher Bacon, an intrepid chemist/biologist and premier researcher for a Boston based pharmaceutical company, while doing research on medicinal plants in the rainforest of Papua, New Guinea. When a tribal medicine man offers him the opportunity for longevity in the guise of a flower, Christopher decides to conduct secret, unauthorized experiments on the flower at his laboratory.<br />Unbeknownst to Christopher, however, Quentin Cross, the pharmaceutical firm's Chief Financial Officer, is gambling heavily on the success of a potential cancer wonder drug that Christopher and his staff are working on. Quentin finds himself in the untenable position of being financially indebted to a murderous drug baron for the crop of the very high-priced, indigenous apricots necessary to the production of the hoped for synthetic toxogen.<br />When the production yield of the toxogen turns out not to be commercially viable and the piper must be paid, a desperate Quentin discovers the secret experiments that Christopher has been conducting. It appears that laboratory test animals have stopped aging and have even had their biological clocks turned back. Quentin sees this as his chance for salvation from certain death at the hands of the drug lord to whom he owes a great deal of money.<br />It seems that Christopher has produced a commercially viable compound from that rainforest flower, which can retard the aging process and extend one's life span. It does, however, have a catch to it. Moreover, this so called wonder drug will serve to create a philosophical divide between Christopher and his wife. Little does he know the effect that his discovery would have on him, his family, his friends, and, ultimately, the world.<br />This novel has enough twists and turns to keep the most demanding reader satisfied. It is multi-layered and complex, providing an entertaining and engrossing read while proffering a whole host of ethical, philosophical, and public policy dilemmas for consideration. This outstanding thriller provides much food for thought buried between its lines. It is a book that will have the reader riveted to its pages until the very last one is turned.n death at the hands of the drug lord to whom he owes a great deal of money.<br />It seems that Christopher has produced a commercially viable compound from that rainforest flower, which can retard the aging process and extend one's life span. It does, however, have a catch to it. Moreover, this so called wonder drug will serve to create a philosophical divide between Christopher and his wife. Little does he know the effect that his discovery would have on him, his family, his friends, and, ultimately, the world.<br />This novel has enough twists and turns to keep the most demanding reader satisfied. It is multi-layered and complex, providing an entertaining and engrossing read while proffering a whole host of ethical, philosophical, and public policy dilemmas for consideration. This outstanding thriller provides much food for thought buried between its lines. It is a book that will have the reader riveted to its pages until the very last one is turned.	2003-01-22
1279940:US	49355567	R3CWZ4Z1D06ZQO	0316785261	658358380	The Fig Eater: A Novel	Books	3	28	29	N	N	VERY ATMOSPHERIC...ELEGANTLY WRITTEN...BUT MISSES THE MARK	This is an intriguing novel about the murder of Dora, a young eighteen year old woman found dead in a park. The contents of her stomach at the time of death contained a half digested fig. She was also a patient of Dr. Freud. You see, her murder happened in Vienna, Austria in 1910.<br />The case is assigned to a nameless inspector, who is trying to investigate this homicide according to certain principles set forth in a book of criminalistics written at the turn of the century. It is an intellectual and cerebral approach to a criminal  investigation. It is also an interesting look at a turn of the century police procedural.<br />Meanwhile, Dora's murder has captured the imagination of the inspector's independent, Hungarian born wife, Erzebet, who, unbeknownst to her husband, has begun her own parallel investigation based upon intuition and her own cultural proclivities. She is joined in her endeavor by her friend, a governess who is at loose ends while her employer is away.<br />During the investigation, this elegantly written novel paints an atmospheric, three dimensional portrait of turn of the century Vienna, lush with details about everyday life. It is this part of the book that is the strongest and the most interesting, as it is highly evocative of a place and time gone by. The mystery itself, however, ends up not being much of a mystery, after all. In the final analysis, the promise of this highly ambitious novel remains unfulfilled, as the author simply bit off more than she could chew. The novel whets the appetite but, ultimately, fails to sate it.	2003-01-05
1279990:US	49355567	R1JID7618Q4O29	1561006114	112076379	Picture Perfect	Books	2	5	6	N	N	THIS BOOK IS LESS THAN PICTURE PERFECT...	This book recounts the almost fairytale like romance and marriage of anthropologist, Cassie Barrett, and silver screen star, Alex Rivers. All that glitters, however, is not gold, as Cassie will soon discover. It seems that her handsome husband has a dark side to his personality.<br />When Cassie undergoes some form of temporary amnesia, she makes the acquaintance of William Flying Horse, a rookie police officer with the Los Angeles Police Department. He is immediately attracted to this lovely, though mysterious, woman. He treats her tenderly and, ultimately, falls in love with her. He does not reveal his feelings, however, as she is eventually claimed by her husband, who has been looking for her.<br />As her memory returns, Cassie recalls what was it that drove her away from Alex. Unfortunately, Alex is the product of an abusive childhood, and the psychological trauma that he sustained growing up rears its ugly head in a way that is not conducive to a happy marriage. Cassie, however, is the great enabler, as she has allowed Alex to continue with this pattern of behavior, rationalizing it to herself.<br />This is a formulaic story that the author tries to augment with some Native American Indian lore that is somewhat interesting but, ultimately, fails to carry the day, as it spirals into the ridiculous. All of the characters, including the Native American ones, are one dimensional and, consequently, the reader ends up caring very little about what happens to any one of them. Neither of the readers of this unabridged audio book are talented enough narrators to make this book into something other than what it is: a mediocre work of fiction not worth reading.	2003-01-05
1280252:US	49355567	RZTNU6OF3C9HC	0449220257	480001512	Victoria in the Wings (Book Eleven in The Georgian Saga)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	PRINCESS VICTORIA...HOUSE OF HANOVER'S HOPE FOR THE FUTURE..	This is another fine, well-written, historical novel by Jean Plaidy, also known to her legion of devoted fans as Victoria Holt. This, the eleventh book in her Georgian saga, focuses on the House of Hanover's need to secure their dynasty.<br />With King George III under lock and key, suffering from what seemed to be a form of insanity, and the Prince Regent in ill health, all looked to the Regent's daughter, Charlotte, who was pregnant and due to give birth. Unfortunately, the unthinkable happened and  both Charlotte and her baby died during childbirth, leaving the kingdom in a quandary. For though King George III had many children, they were all well into middle age and none had any legitimate children to secure the continuation of the Hanoverian dynasty.<br />This turn of events galvanized the unmarried sons of King George III to marry suitable wives, so as to have legitimate children and secure the line of succession for the House of Hanover. William, the third son and Duke of Clarence, as well as Edward, the fourth son and Duke of Kent, did so. William married Adelaide of Saxe-Coburg Meiningen, while Edward married Victoria Mary Louisa of Saxe-Saalfeld-Coburg. Meanwhile, Ernest, the sinister fifth son and Duke of Cumberland, was already married and hoping to be the one to provide the necessary children.<br />When King George III died and the ailing Prince Regent became King George IV, William and Edward were in a dead heat trying to have heirs. While William and Adelaide were unsuccessful, Edward and Victoria managed to have a daughter, who was to be known as Victoria. Shortly after, Ernest and his wife Augusta had a boy, whom they named George.<br />It looked as if Princess Victoria were in the wings, waiting to become Queen; that is, if nothing happened to prevent her from reaching maturity. Plots, intrigues, and danger lurked around every corner. This is the story of how the little princess of the fourth son of King George III would find herself positioned to one day become sovereign of England.one day become sovereign of England.	2003-01-05
1280464:US	49355567	R2IWWCDWTM89OP	0399122362	650893905	The Queen's Favourites (The Stuart Saga #7)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	WHAT GOES AROUND...COMES AROUND...	This is a spellbinding work of historical fiction. A continuation of the Start saga, Jean Plaidy weaves an absorbing account of the reign of Queen Anne. Rich with historical detail, it captures the imagination of the reader until the very last page is turned.<br />When King William died, his sister-in-law, Anne, became Queen of England. Anne, however, was easily manipulated by her childhood friend, Sarah Churchill, now the Duchess of Marlborough. Power hungry, Sarah had her own agenda, and she manipulated the Queen to her own advantage. Viewed as the power behind the throne, Sarah was courted by many who sought her favor or intercession with the Queen.<br />Sarah, however, was brash, insensitive to others, and overly confident, faults that were to cloud her judgment. She also forgot her position and presumed too much when speaking to the Queen. It was as if the roles were reversed. When she ensconced her poor relation, Abigail Hill, in a position in the Queen's household,  Sarah never suspected that quiet, shy Abigail could destroy all for which Sarah had connived.<br />This is a wholly absorbing and enjoyable work of fiction, replete with plots, intrigues, and political machinations.	2003-01-05
1280492:US	49355567	R1KQ97M5CHVO30	B00005VZRC	369516433	The haunted sisters	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	YOU CAN'T MAKE THIS STUFF UP...	This is another well-written work of historical fiction by the doyenne of historical novels, Jean Plaidy. Here, she focuses on the Stuarts, in particular, sisters Mary and Anne, the pampered, beloved daughters of King James II of England, who would die in exile and become known as the \\"king across the water\\".<br />When King Charles II of England died, his brother James, the Duke of York, became King James II. He was, however, an avowed catholic, so sentiment against his reign ran high, as there was the ever present fear of papists, a lingering residual fear left over from the reign of catholic Mary Tudor, who was known as \\"Bloody Mary\\" for her excesses against England's protestants.<br />The two daughters of James II, however, had been raised as protestants, in accordance with the wishes of the people of England . Mary had married the protestant William of Orange, while Anne had married the protestant George of Denmark. William of Orange, knowing that the people of England were strongly against a catholic king and having always coveted the crown of England, decided to wrest the crown of England from King James II.<br />To the great sorrow of James II, both Mary and Anne supported the usurper, and King James II was forced to flee from England. Mary was governed by her desire to please her husband, William, while Anne was governed by her desire to please her childhood friend, Sarah Churchill, an ambitious woman for whom power was everything.<br />This is a story of a father forsaken by his daughters and of sisters who could not be reconciled to one another. This is the story of a country that would rather be ruled by a protestant Dutchman rather than by a catholic Englishman. This is a story in which plots, intrigues, and political machinations run rife.<br />Once again, Jean Plaidy takes historical events and personages and weaves a magical tapestry that holds the reader spellbound.	2003-01-05
1280999:US	49355567	RPNJ2OCR3DUK8	052524591X	992416414	Bitter Blood: 2A True Story of Southern Family Pride, Madness, and Multiple Murder	Books	5	9	10	N	N	YOU CAN'T MAKE THIS STUFF UP...	This is about as engrossing a true crime book as one can get. Well-researched and compellingly written, it tracks the story of three families whose lives intertwine only to culminate in boodshed. It is a story that will enthrall the reader, as well as tug at the reader's heartstrings, because of the tragic familial implications.<br />At the heart of the horror that this book reveals is a beautiful southern belle, Susie Sharp Newsom Lynch, who together with her first cousin and lover, Fritz Klenner, the mentally unbalanced son of a prominent doctor, goes on to be involved in unspeakable acts. It is a riveting book that will keep the reader turning the pages and is one of the best books in the true crime genre.	2003-01-04
1281017:US	49355567	R2P1ZJLQWHKM5M	0829719733	578728992	Refugio Secreto, El	Books	5	2	2	N	N	INSPIRING SAGA OF HEROIC DUTCH FAMILY DURING WORLD WAR II...	This is the Spanish text edition of an absolutely extraordinary book. Never have I read a book in which the spiritual beauty of the author so resonated throughout the story. The purity of heart that manifests itself in this inspiring saga of a heroic, Dutch family in Nazi occupied Holland during World War II is stunningly beautiful.<br /><br />This is the true story of the Ten Boom family who, during the Nazi occupation of The Netherlands, upon seeing what was happening to their Jewish neighbors and friends, asked themselves this age old question \\"If not us,...who; if not now, when?\\" They answered it, ultimately, at great cost.<br /><br />The Ten Booms were devoutly Christian and lived a simple life. The patriarch of the family ran a watch shop that had been in his family for a century. Some of the family members, the author among them, worked there; selling and repairing clocks and watches. They also lived in the house in which the shop was located.<br /><br />When the Nazis occupied their country, the reality of what it meant slowly dawned upon them, as they saw the treatment given to their fellow Dutch citizens of the Jewish faith. Moved by their plight, the author at the age of fifty, together with other members of her family, including their father who was nearly eighty, became active in the Dutch underground.<br /><br />When it became clear to the Ten Booms that Jews were being targeted for deportation and death, they had a false wall constructed in the author's bedroom, thereby creating a secret room. There, they would hide the terrified Jews who were staying with them, in the event of a Nazi raid upon their home.<br /><br />Eventually denounced by someone to the Nazis, the Ten Booms were arrested and their home raided and torn apart by the Gestapo, in their search for the Jews they believed to be hiding there. At the time of the raid, the Ten Boom home was filled to capacity with Jews in hiding. So well concealed was the hidden room that had been created by the erection of the false wall, that these poor, terrified Jews managed to escape detection.<br /><br />The Ten Boom family did not fare so well. It was upon their arrest that they learned first hand of man's inhumanity to man, and their faith was put to a test that they had never dreamt possible. It was faith, however, that sustained the author in what was to be her hour of darkest despair. To find out what happened to the Ten Booms, read this book. It is the story of an incredible family, who had the courage to put their convictions to the test.<br /><br />This book is a masterpiece. The reader is sure to be captivated by the goodness and spiritual beauty contained within its pages.the erection of the false wall, that these poor, terrified Jews managed to escape detection.<br /><br />The Ten Boom family did not fare so well. It was upon their arrest that they learned first hand of man's inhumanity to man, and their faith was put to a test that they had never dreamt possible. It was faith, however, that sustained the author in what was to be her hour of darkest despair. To find out what happened to the Ten Booms, read this book. It is the story of an incredible family, who had the courage to put their convictions to the test.<br /><br />This book is a masterpiece. The reader is sure to be captivated by the goodness and spiritual beauty contained within its pages.	2003-01-04
1281232:US	49355567	R2YCLQLHED5VU6	0070488207	993207297	Virgin	Books	1	33	37	N	N	ONE RELEASE OF THIS BOOK WAS ENOUGH...	This is a bad book with a story line that is fairly simple. There are two young girls, both pregnant and both claiming to be virgins. One, Kathleen, rich and privileged, lives in the United States. The other, Colleen, lives in a small country village in Ireland. According to a secret missive from Our Lady of Fatima, one virgin will give birth to Satan's child, the Anti-Christ, while the other will give birth to the child of God, a new Messiah.<br /><br />Meanwhile, all over the world apocalyptic manifestations are sprouting up. Pestilence, drought, famine, and and other evil portents seem to dominate the global landscape. Something strange is going on, and it appears as if the forces of good and evil are gathering about, girding themselves for one final battle.<br /><br />Father Rosetti, an emissary from the vatican, has been entrusted with a secret mission by the Pope relative to these two young virgins, and it is one that will sorely try his faith. Meanwhile, former nun turned private investigator, Anne Fitzgerald, has been retained by the Archdiocese of Boston to look into the phenomena of a possible immaculate conception with regards to these two young women who inhabit disparate worlds. Anne must not only confront the unknown in order to assist these two young women, she must also confront her own powerful emotions and a destiny she could not have imagined.<br /><br />Written in 1980 and originally released under the title \\"Virgin\\", this book has been updated by the author to make it appear as if it were a more contemporary work and recently released again under the title \\"Cradle and All\\". The book is riddled with ridiculous cliches from the horror genre and lacks any real tension. It has been released again to capitalize on the author's success with his Alex Cross series of thrillers. Unfortunately, it is not cut from the same bolt of cloth and lacks the quality of both writing and plot that earmarks his Alex Cross novels.	2003-01-04
1281267:US	49355567	R1XE8P4YDEPR5	0440773482	233998989	A Dangerous Fortune	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A RIVETING WORK OF FICTION...	The author, a masterful storyteller, weaves an intriguing and mesmerizing tapestry of events that surround the wealthy Pilaster banking family in the latter part of nineteenth century England. Its panoramic sweep will hold the reader in its thrall. This complex story tells of the ebb and flow of their personal fortunes and the personalities that are to profoundly affect them, for better or worse.<br /><br />Augusta Pilaster is the scheming, socially conscious, self-appointed matriarch of the family. She is a woman who will stop at nothing to ensure that her reckless and easily manipulated husband, Joseph, and their indolent, dissolute, and lackluster son, Edward, will get and retain control of the Pilaster banking enterprise. Her Machiavellian machinations, however, will eventually trigger the downfall of the family's fortune.<br />Hugh Pilaster, Augusta's nephew by marriage, is the Pilaster who has the brains and work ethic to take the Pilaster banking fortunes to a new level. His Achilles heel is that he seems destined to be attracted to working class women, a chink in his armor that Augusta Pilaster uses to her and her immediate family's advantage. He, too, is Augusta Pilaster's unwitting pawn, until the day of reckoning comes.<br />Micky Miranda is the romantically handsome scion of a South American despot. Micky attended an exclusive school with Edward and Hugh Pilaster, when they were young. While there, tragedy struck when a mysterious swimming accident took the lives of one of their friends, an event that was to shadow their lives in ways no one could have imagined. Micky Miranda would eventually enter into a web of complicity with Augusta Pilaster that would impact on the fortunes of both the Miranda and Pilaster families.<br />This book takes the reader through all strata of English society, from the drawing rooms of the upper classes and nobility to the exclusive men's clubs and brothels that cater to exotic appetites. It is a totally engrossing and absorbing tale of love, hatred, and treachery that spans three decades. It is a story that the reader will thoroughly enjoy, as it is a captivating and wholly entertaining, well-written work of fiction.bing tale of love, hatred, and treachery that spans three decades. It is a story that the reader will thoroughly enjoy, as it is a captivating and wholly entertaining, well-written work of fiction.	2003-01-04
1281356:US	49355567	R3KI9GNI6WTPWR	0736648771	876635042	Touching The Void:  The Harrowing First Person Account Of One Man's	Books	4	1	1	N	N	EXTREME ADVENTURE IN THE PERUVIAN ANDES...	This book recounts an amazing tale of courage, fortitude, and the will to live, despite dire circumstances. The author, Joe Simpson, and his climbing partner, Simon Yates, attempted to ascend a perilous section of the Peruvian Andes. Near the summit, tragedy struck when Joe, up over 19,000 feet, fell and hit a slope at the base of a cliff, breaking his right leg, rupturing his right knee, and shattering his right heel. Beneath him was a seemingly endless fall to the bottom.<br />When Simon reached him, they both knew that the chances for getting Joe off the mountain were virtually non-existent. Yet, they fashioned a daring plan to do just that. For the next few hours, they worked in tandem through a snowstorm, and managed a risky, yet effective way of trying to lower Joe down the mountain.<br />About three thousand feet down, Joe, who was still roped to Simon, dropped off an edge and found himself now free hanging in space six feet away from an ice wall, unable to reach it with his axe. The edge was over hung about fifteen feet above him. The dark outline of a crevasse lay about a hundred feet directly below him.<br />Joe could not get up, and Simon could not get down. In fact, Joe's weight began to pull Simon off the mountain. So, Simon was finally forced to do the only thing he could do under the circumstances. He cut the rope, believing that he was consigning his friend to certain death. Therein lies the tale.<br />What happens next is sure to make one believe in miracles. This is an absorbing read and one of the great stories in mountaineering literature.	2003-01-04
1281464:US	49355567	R3KWASCGX01DG9	0736641165	675868129	Church Of Dead Girls, The: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	RIVETING AND GRIPPING,,,	This is an exquisitely written book. So beautifully is it written that, at times, its lyricism is almost poetic. The richness of the writing is immediately apparent in the prologue. It is the prologue that draws the reader in, so rich is it in its decriptiveness. It is there that the reader first comes upon \\"The Church of Dead Girls.\\"<br />The book itself is not so much about the murder of young girls, as it is about the reactions of the people in the small town in which the murders occur. It is their reactions to the murders that are central to this book and conveyed to the reader through a brilliantly nuanced, first person narrative by the town's high school biology teacher.<br />The people in the town of Aurelius in upstate New York are like those found in many small towns, insular and inherently suspicious of anything different from that which they are used to. Aurelius is representative of a lot of small towns across America. There is really nothing special about this moribund, complacent little town, until young, teenage girls begin diappearing, one by one.<br />Through the contrivance of first person narration, the author explores the deepest recesses of human nature, as suspicions and accusations unfold and finger pointing begins. No one in town is exempt from the poison of suspicion. The finger is first pointed to the most likely target, a foreign-born college professor whose ideas run counter to that of mainstream Middle America. He is a newcomer to the town and is as different from the majority of the townspeople as can be. This hapless individual becomes demonized in the frenzy of suspicion, petty hatreds, and fear with draconian results. Unfortunately, he is only the first.<br />As the townspeople rally to find the killer amongst them, they devolve, letting impulse, suspicion, and fear grow and dictate their actions. It is as if the murders were the catalyst for the rise in vigilantism, the re-opening of old wounds, and the targeting of innocents in the desperate quest to find the killer. One can see the growth of mob mentality evolve on the pages of this book. It is this phenomenon that the author explores through the book's narrative discourse, beautifully, lyrically, powerfully. It is a narrative that will grip the reader from beginning to end.<br />While the actual ending of the book is somewhat anti-climactic, it should be emphasized that this book was never really about who committed the murders. It is more about the boogeyman of fear that lives deep inside each and everyone of us and about what can happen when that boogeyman is released. It is that, which is truly frightening, as the boogeyman lives in Everyman in Everytown.desperate quest to find the killer. One can see the growth of mob mentality evolve on the pages of this book. It is this phenomenon that the author explores through the book's narrative discourse, beautifully, lyrically, powerfully. It is a narrative that will grip the reader from beginning to end.<br />While the actual ending of the book is somewhat anti-climactic, it should be emphasized that this book was never really about who committed the murders. It is more about the boogeyman of fear that lives deep inside each and everyone of us and about what can happen when that boogeyman is released. It is that, which is truly frightening, as the boogeyman lives in Everyman in Everytown.	2003-01-04
1281471:US	49355567	RA5NA2RAQNI7N	8401468515	62826673	Decidle adios a mama/Kiss Mommy Goodbye (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	SUPERLATIVE AND SUSPENSEFUL...	This is the Spanish text edition of a well written novel of suspense. The plot is expertly crafted and well nuanced, keeping the reader turning the pages. With dialogue that rings true, it makes for a riveting read.<br /><br />The story revolves around a young woman, Donna Edmunds, who works for an advertising agency. She meets a very handsome man, Victor Cressy, at a company party, and he wines and dines her in dramatic fashion, sweeping her off her feet. Finding him to be a fantastic and attentive lover, as well, he is the man of her dreams. When he proposes two months later, she accepts, thinking that she has died and gone to heaven. What she does not know is that she in on her way to living a hell on earth. You see, Victor Cressy is a sociopath.<br /><br />At first, the change in Victor and their relationship was imperceptible. It began subtly with a question here, a question there, a suggestion here, a suggestion there. It then escalated to demands that had to be met, assertions of imagined slights, rules that had to be obeyed. Victor separated Donna from her old friends and family, until her isolation was total. It finally culminated in a control so complete that Donna, as a person in her own right, no longer existed. The cycle of extreme and profound psychological abuse had attained its goal. The old Donna was merely a memory, as the new Donna was too afraid to say anything, do anything, or opine on anything. Instead, a Stepford wife with two children had replaced her.<br /><br />In reality, Donna was a woman on the edge of a nervous breakdown, an enigma to all who would meet her, asserting herself in bizarre ways which were only a cry for help . One day, Donna meets a man who recognizes her profound despair and treats her as a human being. She begins an affair with him, which enables her to reach deep into herself and come to terms with her life and her marriage. She asks Victor for a divorce and custody of the children.<br /><br />The court scenes for the ensuing divorce and custody action are wonderfully drawn, as they are the setting for explaining the deterioration of the marriage. The points of truths in their respective accounts are told from different perspectives in a three dimensional, well fleshed narrative that is tautly drawn. One gets a very definite sense of the psychological horror of the marriage and the reason for Donna's almost total annihilation of self.<br /><br />The divorce is granted, but she retains custody of the children. Donna soon finds out that even though she won, she lost, just as Victor had promised. Five months after the divorce, with the visitation arrangements in place, all had been going smoothly. Victor seemed to have adjusted to the situation and, when they met, treated her with civility. One weekend, he picked up the children, as usual, and admonished them to kiss their mother goodbye. It was not until they failed to return as promised, that she realized the import of his admonishment. Victor had merely lulled her into a false sense of complacency. In reality, her nightmare was far from over and was, in fact, just beginning.nsuing divorce and custody action are wonderfully drawn, as they are the setting for explaining the deterioration of the marriage. The points of truths in their respective accounts are told from different perspectives in a three dimensional, well fleshed narrative that is tautly drawn. One gets a very definite sense of the psychological horror of the marriage and the reason for Donna's almost total annihilation of self.<br /><br />The divorce is granted, but she retains custody of the children. Donna soon finds out that even though she won, she lost, just as Victor had promised. Five months after the divorce, with the visitation arrangements in place, all had been going smoothly. Victor seemed to have adjusted to the situation and, when they met, treated her with civility. One weekend, he picked up the children, as usual, and admonished them to kiss their mother goodbye. It was not until they failed to return as promised, that she realized the import of his admonishment. Victor had merely lulled her into a false sense of complacency. In reality, her nightmare was far from over and was, in fact, just beginning.	2003-01-04
1281505:US	49355567	R1C6A446NZTASK	0091801273	479995197	A slender thread: Escaping disaster in the Himalaya	Books	3	0	0	N	Y	I'VE FALLEN AND I CAN'T GET UP...	This book is well-written, but much of it is decidedly dull. The author writes with all the passion of a dead fish. There are, however, some interesting passages about the history of a remote section of the Himalayas known as the Pancha Chuli massif, which are actually five peaks close to India's border with western Nepal.<br />It is to this region that the author went in 1992 as part of an expedition led by world-renowned British climber, Chris Bonnington. Quite frankly, the author makes himself out to be a less than ideal climbing partner. He apparently had choice words for everyone, including Chris Bonnington. He is lucky that they are apparently better men than he, or he would never have survived his accident, a three hundred foot fall while 19,000 feet up the mountain. But for his fellow expeditioners, the author would still be up there, a silent, frozen reminder to other climbers of the peril that may sometimes await one while climbing.<br />His account of what happens both before and after his accident, and upon his return home, as well as what occurs on his next expedition, gives the reader a measure of the author as a person. There are certainly those who may find him wanting. Yet, notwithstanding his readily apparent, personal shortcomings, his dispassionate account of his travail high up on a remote Himalayan peak is still a worthwhile read, if you are a devotee of mountaineering literature. If you are not, deduct one star from my rating.	2003-01-04
1281664:US	49355567	R2XMZBEZS2K90U	0316782513	480327121	The Weight of Water	Books	5	2	2	N	N	COMPELLING, ABSORBING, POWERFUL	This is an exceptionally well-written tour de force about complex emotions. Written is clean, spare prose, it is two stories in one, each with its own voice, demanding to be heard. It is, without a doubt, a book to remember.<br />It tells the story of Jean, a news photographer who sets out on a sailboat to a remote island off the coast of New Hampshire, accompanied by her husband, Thomas, her five year old daughter, Billie, her brother-in-law, Rich, and his girl friend of several months, Adaline. The purpose of her visit is to photograph the scene of a nineteenth century double murder that saw two Norwegian, immigrant women hacked to death, which murders were much ballyhooed at the time as the crime of the century.<br />While there, she discovers an uncatalogued translation of the personal journal of the ostensible lone, female eyewitness, Maren Hontvedt, who seemed to have survived the carnage. Written in a somber and ruminative tone, the journal of Maren's life and of the events that led up to the carnage forms a core of the story. Maren's journal provides a framework for looking at the angst of Jean's present which is haunted by passion, jealousy, and betrayal. It is through Maren's story that Jean herself comes to terms with her own personal tragedy.<br />Alternating between Jean's unraveling present and the secrets of the past, the book provides a compelling, absorbing and suspenseful narrative, keeping the reader in its thrall. The two juxtaposed dramas come together in a primal and tragic climax. Those who read this book will find themselves haunted by it.	2003-01-04
1281688:US	49355567	R1RGGHF0BW6C9C	8445072188	967745726	Soy Leyenda (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	I AM LEGEND...A LEGEND IN ITS OWN TIME...	What would you do, if a mysterious plague swept throughout the world, literally killing everyone off, but leaving in its place something new, something frightening, something downright horrible, while leaving you alive, immune and seemingly alone? What would you do, if the undead now walked the earth looking for you, the last man alive...the last vestige of the human race? What if what they wanted was the taste of your blood on their lips? Just what on earth would you do?<br />These are the questions that faced Robert Neville. It is he who is Legend. How he answers them is what makes this a book to remember and a classic within its genre. It is a book of profound hope and despair. It is a book that demands to be read. Read it. You will not be disappointed.	2003-01-04
1281826:US	49355567	R1RCGBUURB336W	0816174261	334451328	The Reluctant Queen: The Story of Anne of York/Large Print (G K Hall Large Print Book Series)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	FROM LADY TO QUEEN...	This eighth book in the \\"Queens of England\\" series by the author, a master storyteller also known to her legion of fans as Victoria Holt, focuses on the life of Anne of York, the daughter of the Earl of Warwick. She went on to become Queen of England as the wife of King Richard III. Her story, told in a first person narrative, is an absorbing work of historical fiction.<br />The War of Roses had ended and the great Earl of Warwick, the richest and most powerful lord in England, was known as the kingmaker. The Earl had ensured that the former Duke of York be crowned King Edward IV, after having deposed mad King Henry VI of the house of Lancaster. The Earl of Warwick's family, the Nevilles, was in a position of power. Then, the King married Elizabeth Woodville, and it was the Woodvilles who were in the ascendant and the Nevilles in decline. The Earl of Warwick, who had thought himself to be the power behind the throne, suddenly realized that he had supported a King who had every intention of being his own man. This was a notion that was anathema to Warwick, and he used his two daughters, Isabel and Anne, as pawns in a dangerous game of political intrigue.<br />After her father's death in battle during a political falling out with King Edward IV, Anne went on to marry the love of her life, the King's younger brother, Richard. Through her eyes the reader sees all the political intrigues of the day and the rise and fall of various personages, as the political winds shifted. Despite all of the turbulence around her, Anne and Richard lived many happy years in Northern England, far from the Court of King Edward IV.<br />When the King died, her world radically changed. Richard, who was chosen to be Lord Protector of the Realm by his brother, chose, instead, to declare his nephew, Edward V, illegitimate, and himself the King. What happened to his nephew, Edward V, as well as Edward's younger brother, remains a mystery to this day. Through Anne's eyes, the reader sees Anne view her changing world with dismay and trepidation, as her husband transformed into someone she barely recognized, and she was thrust into a role for which she had no desire, that of Queen of England.<br />This is a wonderfully told work of historical fiction by a superlative storyteller. The reader need not have read the prior volumes in the series before reading this one. Each book in the series stands on its own. The entire series, however, is a must read for all those who enjoy well written, historical fiction.w her changing world with dismay and trepidation, as her husband transformed into someone she barely recognized, and she was thrust into a role for which she had no desire, that of Queen of England.<br />This is a wonderfully told work of historical fiction by a superlative storyteller. The reader need not have read the prior volumes in the series before reading this one. Each book in the series stands on its own. The entire series, however, is a must read for all those who enjoy well written, historical fiction.	2003-01-04
1281903:US	49355567	R2G00MZH11PAOJ	8478883630	971494893	Viajera (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	A VOYAGE TO REMEMBER...	The third in a series of exceptionally well-written time travel, adventure/romance books by the author, this Spanish language edition of the novel, \\"Voyager\\", tells a gripping and highly entertaining tale. There are five such novels published to date in what is hoped to be a series of six books. I urge the interested reader to start at the beginning and read each and every one. Do not be daunted by the length. Trust me when I say that you will wish that they were longer; so riveting a story does the author unfold. A masterful storyteller, the author employs the superlative use of historical events and period detail to weave an engaging three dimensional tapestry of timeless love and adventure. While the core of the story is about a love that transcends time, it is, however, much more than that. It is an adventure story that grips the reader from beginning to end and is positively addictive!<br /><br />The love that spans time is that which twentieth century Englishwoman, Claire Randall, has for eighteenth century Scottish highlands warrior, James Fraser. Those readers who have read the first book in the series, \\"Outlander\\", know that in 1945, Claire, a combat nurse during World War II, is reunited with her husband, Frank, after the war. While on a second honeymoon in Scotland, she visited a strange, flat-topped hill, where a forbidding stone circle drew her. Touching one of the stones, she was hurled through a vortex in time and found herself in eighteenth century Scotland, where she met a brave and brawny, red-headed Scot, James Fraser, with whom she fell head over heels in love. Finding herself thrust into the midst of clan warfare and intrigue, she and her beloved 'Jamie' have enough adventures to last a lifetime.<br /><br />The second book, \\"Dragonfly in Amber\\", is a continuation of that story, told from the perspective of the twentieth century United States where Claire, now a doctor, has lived for the past twenty years. Upon the death of her twentieth century husband, Frank, Claire returns to Scotland with her grown, red-headed daughter, Brianna. There, she discloses to Brianna the events of her secret past, as well as the truth of whom Brianna's biological father truly is and of the love that Claire bore him.<br /><br />While in Scotland, however, Claire discovers something that will forever change her future, as well as her past. You see, for the past twenty years, Claire has mistakenly believed that her beloved 'Jamie' died in the historic battle of Culloden. It was there that the Scottish highlanders bravely fought the English in a misguided attempt to restore Charles Stuart, their bonnie Prince Charlie, to the throne of England, only to be decimated on the battlefield. Those few who survived were branded as Jacobite traitors and imprisoned, and their families disenfranchised. It is this very event that Claire and 'Jamie' had conspired to change, only to fail.<br /><br />Their story transports the reader from the turmoil of the Scottish highlands to the intrigue of the French Court and regales the reader with the adventures of the two lovers, as they conspire to change the very course of history. It was this valiant attempt that ultimately brought Claire and 'Jamie' to the crossroad that would compel them to part and have Brianna become a denizen of the twentieth century.<br /><br />In \\"Voyager\\", Claire, now realizing that the love of her life and soulmate survived the battle of Culloden, makes the decision to go back in time and find James Fraser, as for the past twenty years her love for him has remained constant. Leaving her daughter, Brianna, she once more hurls herself into the vortex of time to eighteenth century Scotland to begin her search for James Fraser, in hope of being reunited with her 'Jamie'.<br /><br />This book tells the story of what happened to Claire Randall and James Fraser in those intervening twenty years. It tells of their ultimate reunion and rediscovery. With historical events as a backdropand an unforgettable cast of characters, it regales the reader with their new adventures, as Claire returns to a still divided, turmoil-ridden Scotland. Reunited with James Fraser, none the worse for wear, they seek to make a life for themselves. As their love comes full circle, they take to the high seas, and their adventures continue. This compelling time travel saga is sure to captivate the reader.and an unforgettable cast of characters, it regales the reader with their new adventures, as Claire returns to a still divided, turmoil-ridden Scotland. Reunited with James Fraser, none the worse for wear, they seek to make a life for themselves. As their love comes full circle, they take to the high seas, and their adventures continue. This compelling time travel saga is sure to captivate the reader.	2003-01-04
1281937:US	49355567	R1N149SP2UUFO9	8484505197	6937687	Rescate En El Tiempo/ Timeline (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	DAZZLING...HIGHLY IMAGINATIVE...STUNNING WORK OF FICTION...	This is the Spanish text edition of an absolute page turner of a book. It opens with one of the most absorbing first chapters I have ever read. An elderly man is found wandering in the desert, speaking in rhyme. There is something not quite right about him. The hospital to which he is taken discovers that the anomalies do not end with just his speech. Something is very wrong with him.<br /><br />Highly inventive and compelling, the reader is reeled in hook, line, and sinker, right from the get go. A wholly plot driven book, make no mistake about it, the story revolves around a highly secretive, technological corporation, ITC, headed up by a megalomaniacal, young genius, who is tooling around with quantum physics in a way that has never before been done. Our genius is spearheading a project that is truly cutting edge. Of course, he is not doing this for the betterment of mankind. He is doing it simply because it will ultimately result in mega bucks for him, if all goes according to plan. Alas, the best-laid plans often go awry.<br /><br />Cut to a group of dedicated historians who are involved in an archaeological dig, located along the Dordogne River in France. Their project, the ultimate restoration of a fourteenth century, feudal town, is very generously funded by ITC. Now why would a technological giant such as ITC be funding such a project?<br /><br />This is the basic premise of the book. The use of quantum physics is applied in such a way as to access the past. Here, a group of historians find themselves with the chance of a lifetime. They can actually enter fourteenth century, feudal France and experience it themselves. There is quite an adventure in store for them.<br /><br />Their reason for doing so, however, is not research. They are actually on a mission to rescue their chief historian who had ventured into fourteenth century, feudal France, using ITC's technological application of quantum physics. Due to an unfortunate set of circumstances, however, he found himself mired in the fourteenth century and unable to return to the present, as originally planned.<br /><br />What happens to these intrepid historians will captivate the reader. Well written and thoroughly researched, those who, like me, love science fiction, as well as historical fiction, will, most likely, enjoy this book. As a devotee of medieval history, I was entranced by the historical detail contained within the novel. I also found the book somewhat reminiscent of the sci-fi television series called \\"Sliders\\", in which the concept of quantum physics is utilized in order to slide into parallel universes.<br /><br />All in all, this well-written novel makes for riveting, escapist entertainment. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and found that I simply could not put it down!found himself mired in the fourteenth century and unable to return to the present, as originally planned.<br /><br />What happens to these intrepid historians will captivate the reader. Well written and thoroughly researched, those who, like me, love science fiction, as well as historical fiction, will, most likely, enjoy this book. As a devotee of medieval history, I was entranced by the historical detail contained within the novel. I also found the book somewhat reminiscent of the sci-fi television series called \\"Sliders\\", in which the concept of quantum physics is utilized in order to slide into parallel universes.<br /><br />All in all, this well-written novel makes for riveting, escapist entertainment. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and found that I simply could not put it down!	2003-01-04
1282073:US	49355567	R3PDIM9VQIKYGU	1860429173	752765994	Kate Hannigan's Girl	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A MEDIOCRE NOVEL BY A WONDERFUL AUTHOR...	In this, her one hundredth published novel, the author takes a nosedive. For the legions of Catherine Cookson fans, it would have been better not to posthumously publish this mediocre novel and let the author rest in peace on her well deserved laurels. Catherine Cookson was a wonderful storyteller, but this book falls a bit short of her previous high marks.<br />Set in early twentieth century England, this is the story of Annie Hannigan, a girl who, through her mother's marriage to a wealthy country doctor, went from rags to riches. A flaxen haired, blue eyed beauty, Annie has her share of heartache when the boy she loves, Terence MacBane, seems elusive and out of reach. Her heartbreak is compounded when a vicious acquaintance, Cathleen Davidson, makes it her business to try and see that Annie and Terence never get together by putting Terence into her predatory crosshairs. Who shall be the victor? I am afraid that you will have to read the book and find out.<br />The usual themes found in a Catherine Cookson novel are found in this one, as well. Class conflicts, as well as romance and familial ties, abound. Unfortunately, the characters are not particularly well drawn, and the reader will find it difficult to care about what happens to any of them. It reads more like a work in progress. Unless you already are a Catherine Cookson devotee, you will find it hard to find this book of interest. If you are not a fan, deduct one star from my rating.	2003-01-04
1304804:US	49355567	R2UP81Z0MBLJAU	1567406947	235001261	Yesterday	Books	3	0	0	N	N	YESTERDAY IS BEST FORGOTTEN...	This book starts out promisingly enough. An affluent man in South Carolina has a daughter named Callie, ostensibly an only child. He adopts Bode Jessup, so Callie can have a brother. He also brings two young girls from disadvantaged and dysfunctional families, Brie and Sela, to be Callie's playmates, but they end up spending most of their time in the Parker household.<br />As Callie's mother is a sick woman and her father is a busy man, the roost is ruled by Mamma Pearl, a larger than life African American woman. She becomes the center of the universe for these three children, who look to her as a mother figure and love her dearly. Mamma Pearl also loves and cherishes these children, sacrificing her life to their well being.<br />When they are all young adults, however, intrigue and turmoil bubble under the surface, as their true feelings for each other begin to emerge on the eve of Callie's wedding. The catalyst for a great emotional catharsis is the tragic accident that leaves Callie in a coma on her wedding day. As events unfold, shocking family secrets are revealed, ripping the blinders from their eyes, as all was not what it seemed.<br />The book, which started off promisingly enough, begins to head south, as a series of revelations, increasingly implausible, are divulged. Moreover, the personalities of the characters seem to change at the drop of a dime, depending upon the circumstances. This tends to render them two dimensional, as there is no real character development. This deficiency in the writing serves to further highlight the implausibility of the storyline. Moreover, some of the surprises in store for the reader are positively ridiculous. The secrets about Bode and Callie are especially ludicrous, making the book almost laughable.<br />The only thing that seems to save this audio book is the reading by Laural Lerlington, who does an excellent job with the material with which she had to work. The fact that the book is rife with dialogue, rather than narrative, works to the advantage of the book when read aloud, and Ms. Lerlington does a masterful job of infusing the characters with as much personality as possible. While the reading rates four stars, the content of the book rates two, resulting in an overall rating of three stars.rrative, works to the advantage of the book when read aloud, and Ms. Lerlington does a masterful job of infusing the characters with as much personality as possible. While the reading rates four stars, the content of the book rates two, resulting in an overall rating of three stars.	2002-12-14
1305480:US	49355567	RFAW7DXBDN2BY	0312876130	246060029	Gray Matter	Books	5	4	4	N	N	CUTTING EDGE THRILLER...	The author has written a medical thriller that will have the reader glued to the pages of the book until the very last. It is a well written, suspenseful novel that heralds a novelist whose prose is spare, lean, and taut, moving the story along at a brisk pace. Fans of Michael Crichton and Robin Cook will, undoubtedly, enjoy this well paced thriller, as will anyone who appreciates a great story.<br />The story line is fairly simple. A well-educated, intelligent, and affluent couple, Rachel and Martin Whitman, have a six year old son named Dylan. He is a sweet and beautiful, good-natured child with a penchant for singing show tunes. He can sing amazingly well and is simply adorable. Unfortunately, he has a below average intelligence quotient, as well as a learning disability that makes academic pursuits a trial for him. His parents' dream of a bright future for Dylan seems remote, given his limitations.<br />Suddenly, however, they are given hope, when a friend of Rachel's suggests that she see a Dr. Malenko, a neurologist who may be able to help with Dylan's problem through an experimental, surgical enhancement, which appears to be done clandestinely. It is a risky business, but Dylan's parents seem willing to do almost anything to ensure that their son will be able to be all that they would like him to be. Or are they? The ultimate cost may be more than that for which they bargained.<br />Running parallel to this story line is another one involving a Detective who is investigating a series of puzzling homicides involving children with unusual markings on their skulls. His is a quest that will intersect with the Whitmans' dream in a head on collision, making for a pulse pounding grand finale. The climactic surprise ending will leave the reader open-mouthed.<br />This novel is multi-layered and complex, providing an engrossing and absorbing read while proffering a whole host of ethical and public policy dilemmas for consideration. This outstanding thriller provides much food for thought buried between its lines. It is a book that demands to be read and one that will have the reader riveted to its pages until the very last one is turned. Bravo!uch food for thought buried between its lines. It is a book that demands to be read and one that will have the reader riveted to its pages until the very last one is turned. Bravo!	2002-12-14
1308387:US	49355567	R1MKB11X0ACIMR	0709124333	673104288	Goddess of the Green Room (Her Georgian saga)	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	SO NEAR AND YET SO FAR...	This is the tenth book in the Georgian saga series of books by Jean Plaidy, also known to her legion of fans as Victoria Holt. This is an entertaining work of historical fiction replete with many period details. Well written, it is a look into the life of stage actress, musical star, and comedienne Dorothy Jordan. A shining star of Richard Sheridan's Drury Lane Theatre, Ms. Jordan was to capture the hearts of theatre lovers, as well as the heart of the third son of King George III, William, the seafaring Duke of Clarence.<br />From poverty in Ireland to fame and notoriety in London, England, the multi-talented Dorothy Jordan would have many admirers. A one man woman, however, she was devoted to hearth and family. Her intimate relationship with the Duke of Clarence would span twenty years and ten children. They would live in connubial bliss as a family, though he could not, for reasons of state, marry her, being  third in the line of succession to the throne of England. With William, Ms. Jordan was to know great joy and great sorrow.<br />William's penchant for living beyond his means, however, ensured that Ms. Jordan would continue working in the footlights of the theatre, as her income was a necessity to maintain their high standard of living. This would prove to be a sore point between them, as Dorothy wanted nothing more than to leave the paintpots of the theatre and live the life of full-time wife and mother. William's profligate spending would ensure that her dream would never come to fruition.<br />Eventually, William would have a mid-life crisis and their twenty years of family life would come to an abrupt end, as William would ostensibly seek to meet his obligation to the state. Dorothy Jordan, now an ill woman in her fifties, abandoned by her long time lover and husband in all but name, ignored by the very children to whom she had been so devoted, would live the lonely life of an expatriate in France, living out her remaining years virtually alone and friendless.<br />This is an engaging work of historical fiction, providing many glimspes into the lives of members of the royal family and all their contretemps. It provides a peek into the madness of King George III, the various relationships of George, the Prince of Wales, including that with his long time mistress, Maria Fitzherbert, and that with his much disdained wife, Caroline. All these personages and their lives provide a backdrop for William's and Dorothy's relationship, making for a three dimensional, well told tale that all those who love historical fiction will enjoy.dless.<br />This is an engaging work of historical fiction, providing many glimspes into the lives of members of the royal family and all their contretemps. It provides a peek into the madness of King George III, the various relationships of George, the Prince of Wales, including that with his long time mistress, Maria Fitzherbert, and that with his much disdained wife, Caroline. All these personages and their lives provide a backdrop for William's and Dorothy's relationship, making for a three dimensional, well told tale that all those who love historical fiction will enjoy.	2002-12-11
1312278:US	49355567	R2H9E4KJI5GT6J	0399130705	412613019	Princess of Celle (Georgian Saga)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	BEAUTY AND THE BEAST...	This is the first volume in the Georgian saga by Jean Plaidy, a master storyteller and prolific writer of historical fiction. It is the tragic tale of a German Princess who would go on to become the wife and captive princess of the uncouth boor who would one day be crowned as George I of England.<br />William of Celle and his wife Eleanore had a beautiful, pampered daughter, Sophia Dorothea. His younger brother, Ernest Augustus, ruled in the rival principality of Hanover. He was married to Sophia, daughter of the King of Bohemia. Together they had a number of children, the oldest of whom was George Lewis, an ugly, coarse, and boorish man, born to be a soldier, rather than a statesman or diplomat.<br />There came a time when Sophia Dorothea, as a result of some underhanded political intrigues, was forced into a loveless marriage with her first cousin, George Lewis, much to her and her mother's despair and dismay. George Lewis was also not thrilled with the match, given as he was to coarser delights. Sophia Dorothea, however, tried to make the most of her unpleasant situation, buoyed by her own innate charm and disposition.<br />In the end, however, Sophia Dorothea became undone by her love for the dashing Count Konigsmarck of Sweden. Through the political machinations and intrigues of the jealous and sexually insatiable Clara von Platen, her father-in-law's long time mistress and Konigsmarck's spurned lover, Sophia Dorothea and Count Konigsmarck were betrayed. Ruined, Sophia Dorothea ended her days as a captive princess, the tragic and pitied Princess of Celle. George Lewis would go on to undeserved heights as George I of England, and the house of Hanover would become a force with which to be reckoned.<br />This is a wonderful account of the tragedy that befell Sophia Dorothea and an excellent one of how the house of Hanover rose to prominence in England. Well written and absorbing, it is a page turning book for all those who enjoy historical fiction.	2002-12-08
1312375:US	49355567	RG86LPG2F08T4	0449200469	527035136	Hammer of the Scots (Plantagenet Saga)	Books	4	18	18	N	Y	THE REIGN OF KING EDWARD I...	Jean Plaidy, a prolific writer of historical fiction who is also known as Victoria Holt to her legion of fans, weaves an intriguing tapestry of historical fact and fiction that will hold the reader in its thrall. This is the story of a king who desired nothing more than to be a just and wise ruler. That King is Edward I of England.<br /><br />Edward I, happily married to Eleanor of Castile, would inherit an unhappy and nearly bankrupt kingdom upon the death of his father, Henry III, whose profligate wife, Eleanor of Provence, Edward's mother, had incurred the emnity of the people for her lavish spending and the ensuing heavy taxation. Edward's fervent wish was to put to right all that was wrong. His was to be a reign which saw prosperity for his people.<br /><br />It was also a reign in which war was a constant. With William Wallace rallying the Scots and Llewellyn  rallying the Welsh under their respective banners, Edward was to have his hands full. Yet, vanquish them he did, as his desire for unity would ultimately become a reality, with Scotland and Wales under his banner.<br /><br />Edward I would declare his son, Edward II, the first Prince of Wales. Unfortunately, he would grow up to disappoint his father. Edward I viewed his son as a dissolute weakling, and he disdained his son's relationship with Piers Gaveston, who was rumored to be his son's lover. He feared for England, as he felt that his son and heir had little judgment. Edward I died, leaving England in the very hands of the son that would prove himself unfit to rule.<br /><br />This is an interesting work of historical fiction that will keep the reader turning its pages. Ms. Plaidy is a master storyteller with a talent for making history come alive. This is a stirring look into the past. It reveals the bitterweet origin of Charing Cross. The book is one that all those who love well written historical fiction will enjoy.	2002-12-08
1313249:US	49355567	RRFY0N62FRPGL	0709107285	490952231	The Third George	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	THE TRAGEDY OF KING GEORGE III	In this, her fifth book in the Georgian saga, Jean Plaidy, also known to her legion of fans as Victoria Holt, has written an interesting and absorbing account of the reign of King George III. A masterful storyteller, she regales the reader with a work of historical fiction infused with period details. It is a story that will engage the most discerning of readers.<br />It is the story of King George III, who began his reign with the best of intentions. He desired to be the opposite of his grandfather, King George II, who had maintained a fairly licentious court. Always mindful of his duty, George III followed the wishes of his mother and her married lover, Lord Bute, who for many years was his principal advisor, and married the plain and stolid German princess, Charlotte of Mecklenburg-Strelitz. She would prove to be a fruitful consort, as she would ultimately bear him fifteen children.<br />Alas, this man, who wanted nothing more than to be a good king and family man, was unable to fulfill his desires. As a parent, he was a martinet, and as a husband, he was kindly but did not accord his wife a full partnership in their marriage, though she was a devoted spouse and acceded to his wishes. As a king, he was derisively known as the farmer king by his people, due to his penchant for farming and more plebeian pursuits, such as button making. George III was a man who probably would have been happier in the role of a country squire rather than king of the mighty British empire. Despite his best intentions, he would be remembered as the mad king during whose reign the American colonies were lost.<br />The destiny of George III was to be a personally tragic one. A family man, whose children reviled him, and a king, whose people mocked him, George III was to suffer the debilitation and indignity of an illness that would leave him vulnerable to those who would seek an advantage over him. His seeming madness would see his devoted wife, Charlotte, pitted against their son, the Prince of Wales, in an attempt to forestall the naming of a Regent. The reign of King George III would be rife with political intrigues, most of which would escape his notice. Jean Plaidy weaves a tapestry of events that will keep the reader fully engaged with the story of the reign of George III.rince of Wales, in an attempt to forestall the naming of a Regent. The reign of King George III would be rife with political intrigues, most of which would escape his notice. Jean Plaidy weaves a tapestry of events that will keep the reader fully engaged with the story of the reign of George III.	2002-12-08
1316124:US	49355567	R2373PX1T96W0Y	0786235985	321171	Kate Hannigan's Girl	Books	3	5	5	N	N	A MEDIOCRE NOVEL BY A WONDERFUL AUTHOR...	In this, her one hundredth published novel, the author takes a nosedive. For the legions of Catherine Cookson fans, it would have been better not to posthumously publish this mediocre novel and let the author rest in peace on her well deserved laurels. Catherine Cookson was a wonderful storyteller, but this book falls a bit short of her previous high marks.<br /><br />Set in early twentieth century England, this is the story of Annie Hannigan, a girl who, through her mother's marriage to a wealthy country doctor, went from rags to riches. A flaxen haired, blue eyed beauty, Annie has her share of heartache when the boy she loves, Terence MacBane, seems elusive and out of reach. Her heartbreak is compounded when a viscious acquiantance, Cathleen Davidson, makes it her business to try and see that Annie and Terence never get together by putting Terence into her predatory crosshairs. Who shall be the victor? I am afraid that you will have to read the book and find out.<br /><br />The usual themes found in a Catherine Cookson novel are found in this one, as well. Class conflicts, as well as romance and familial ties, abound. Unfortunately, the characters are not particularly well drawn, and the reader will find it difficult to care about what happens to any one of them. It reads more like a work in progress. Unless you already are a Catherine Cookson devotee, you will find it hard to find this book of interest. If you are not a fan, deduct one star from  my rating.	2002-12-05
1331888:US	49355567	R3147Z5ZAWNYV3	B00005XI2K	620173650	Immortal Queen	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	MARY, QUEEN OF SCOTS...MORE WOMAN THAN QUEEN	This is a stirring, well written work of historical fiction about Mary, Queen of Scots. Drawing a three dimensional portrait of this tragic queen, whose reign was all too short, the author sets the mood for the turbulent time and place that was sixteenth century Scotland, replete with intrigues and almost unimaginable skulduggery. It was there that the beautiful Mary was to confront a certain duality in her nature that would see her rule Scotland with her heart, rather than with her head.<br />Mary was a woman who had the capacity to enslave men's hearts with her luminous beauty and inspire great loyalty in her friends with her innate charm and kindness. She went to Scotland to reclaim her throne after the deaths of her husband, Francois, the King of France, and of her mother, Marie de Guise, who had been Regent of Scotland on Mary's behalf.<br />In protestant Scotland, Mary was to be confronted with fire and brimstone preacher, John Knox, an ardent calvinist, who would brook no tolerance towards papists. Mary, an ardent catholic and well educated woman, wanted everyone to worship as their conscience dictated. Her benevolent posture and entreaties for religious tolerance fell upon the deaf ears of the rigid John Knox, a fundamentalist fanatic of the worst sort, who would prove to be the bane of Mary's existence.<br />Moreover, her older half-brother, James Stuart, was a cold and calculating man of great ambition whose bastardy was the only thing standing in his way of claiming the crown of Scotland for himself. The book reveals his perfidy and the machinations that he set into play in order to obtain by stealth and intrigue what was Mary's by right. He would secretly work with the English, as well as with the Lords of the Congregation of Scotland, to ensure that he would eventually be the power behind the throne.<br />Meanwhile, Mary would enter into a disastrous marriage with Lord Darnley, a dissolute, though devastatingly handsome, catholic member of the English nobility. This marriage that was to set the stage for a number of violent, heinous acts that were to traumatize Mary and set her upon a course for which there would be no turning back. This most unhappy queen would ultimately give birth to their son, James, the future King of Scotland, under the most difficult of circumstances.<br />Her relationship with dashing James Hepburn, the Earl of Bothwell, her third and last husband, would prove to be her undoing. The book explores this relationship in great detail, in all its tumultuousness and passion. It delineates the events that led up to their marriage, and Mary's own complicity in them. Eventually, the decisions that Mary would make at this difficult time in her life would render her the captive Queen of Scots and set her on the royal road to Fotheringay Castle in England, where she would be sentenced to death by her wily cousin, Elizabeth I.<br />The author's interpretation of the major events in Mary's life makes for fascinating reading, as Mary comes alive on the pages of this book, a compassionate and vibrant, flesh and blood woman. It is simply masterful storytelling at its best. Readers will find themselves riveted to the pages of this beautifully written, well researched work of historical fiction. This is a book that even the most discerning reader will enjoy.obility. This marriage that was to set the stage for a number of violent, heinous acts that were to traumatize Mary and set her upon a course for which there would be no turning back. This most unhappy queen would ultimately give birth to their son, James, the future King of Scotland, under the most difficult of circumstances.<br />Her relationship with dashing James Hepburn, the Earl of Bothwell, her third and last husband, would prove to be her undoing. The book explores this relationship in great detail, in all its tumultuousness and passion. It delineates the events that led up to their marriage, and Mary's own complicity in them. Eventually, the decisions that Mary would make at this difficult time in her life would render her the captive Queen of Scots and set her on the royal road to Fotheringay Castle in England, where she would be sentenced to death by her wily cousin, Elizabeth I.<br />The author's interpretation of the major events in Mary's life makes for fascinating reading, as Mary comes alive on the pages of this book, a compassionate and vibrant, flesh and blood woman. It is simply masterful storytelling at its best. Readers will find themselves riveted to the pages of this beautifully written, well researched work of historical fiction. This is a book that even the most discerning reader will enjoy.	2002-11-21
1343508:US	49355567	R33D2BGDTAI8KD	0449222861	37552109	Katharine the Virgin Widow	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	A WELL WRITTEN WORK OF HISTORICAL FICTION...	In this, the first book in the Katherine of Aragon trilogy, the author, Jean Plaidy, also known to her legion of fans as Victoria Holt, writes about young Katherine of Aragon, who as the Infanta of Spain, was betrothed to marry the sickly son of the parsimonious King Henry VII, Arthur, the Prince of Wales.<br />This marriage was a politically expedient one, meant to ally Spain and England. When Arthur dies shortly after their marriage, he leaves behind a virgin widow, as their marriage had never been consummated. This book chronicles the travails of the widowed Katherine, who languished in the court of her father-in-law, treated as an unnecessary appendage, only to be turned out of the palace to live as an unwanted poor relation.<br />Living in penurious conditions in England, ill befitting a princess of Spain, she waits for her fortunes to change. When her beloved mother and only hope of respite, Queen Isabella of Castile, dies, Katherine is bereft, knowing that her father, King Ferdinand of Aragon, will do only what is politically convenient and leave her to her own devices. She is ultimately betrothed to Arthur's younger brother, Henry, only to find that as the time for the marriage to take place draws near, King Henry VII is manuevering to make a more advantageous marriage for his son.<br />Reliance upon her sister, Juana, who is now Queen of Castile, to help Katherine settle her precarious situation is misplaced, for Juana, married to Phillip the Handsome, has mental health issues. After the premature death of her husband, her behavior greatly deteriorates, and she becomes known as Juana the Mad with good reason.<br />The book artfully details the hopefulness of a young Katherine, as she is married to Arthur, as well as the early sufferings of the widowed Katherine at the hands of King Henry VII. The book also offers an intriguing glimpse into the life of Katherine's older sister, Juana the Mad, as well as the Spanish and English intrigues of the day. This is a well written account of the early life of Katherine of Aragon in the English Court, whose fortunes dramatically changed upon the death of King Henry VII, when Henry VIII chose to honor his betrothal to her and make her his wife.well written account of the early life of Katherine of Aragon in the English Court, whose fortunes dramatically changed upon the death of King Henry VII, when Henry VIII chose to honor his betrothal to her and make her his wife.	2002-11-12
1344168:US	49355567	R207YD4FCQ03XW	1561001775	233998989	A Dangerous Fortune	Books	5	345	353	N	N	A RIVETING WORK OF FICTION...	The author, a masterful storyteller, weaves an intriguing and mesmerizing tapestry of events that surround the wealthy Pilaster banking family in the latter part of nineteenth century England. Its panoramic sweep will hold the reader in its thrall. This complex story tells of the ebb and flow of their individual personal fortunes and the personalities that are to profoundly affect them, for better or worse.<br />Augusta Pilaster is the scheming, socially conscious, self-appointed matriarch of the family. She is a woman who will stop at nothing to ensure that her reckless and easily manipulated husband, Joseph, and their indolent, dissolute, and lackluster son, Edward, will get and retain control of the Pilaster banking enterprise. Her machiavellian machinations, however, will eventually trigger the downfall of the family's fortune.<br />Hugh Pilaster, Augusta's nephew by marriage, is the Pilaster who has the brains and work ethic to take the Pilaster banking fortunes to a new level. His Achilles heel is that he seems destined to be attracted to working class women, a chink in his armor that Augusta Pilaster uses to her and her immediate family's advantage. He, too, is Augusta Pilater's unwitting pawn, until the day of reckoning comes.<br />Micky Miranda is the romantically handsome scion of a wealthy,  unscrupulous, and power hungry South American businessman. Micky attended an exclusive school with Edward and Hugh Pilaster, when they were young. While there, tragedy struck when a mysterious swimming \\"accident\\" took the life of one of their friends, an event that was to shadow their lives in ways no one could have imagined. Micky Miranda would eventually enter into into a web of complicity with Augusta Pilaster that would impact on the fortunes of both the Miranda and Pilaster families.<br />This book takes the reader through all strata of English society, from the drawing rooms of the upper classes to the exclusive men's clubs and brothels that cater to exotic appetites. It is a totally engrossing and absorbing tale of love, hatred, and treachery that spans three decades. It is a story that the reader will thoroughly enjoy.<br />I originally read this book several years ago and enjoyed it so much that I decided to purchase the unabridged audiobook for a road trip. It provided seventeen hours of pure listening pleasure, as the narrator, Michael Page, is absolutely superlative. He manages to imbue each character with its own recognizable voice and personality. I was able to tear myself away from the car only with great difficulty, at times, as I was so engrossed by the story and its telling.<br />This is a terrific book. Whether one reads it or has it read to them makes no difference, as it is a captivating and wholly entertaining work of well written fiction. Bravo!tites. It is a totally engrossing and absorbing tale of love, hatred, and treachery that spans three decades. It is a story that the reader will thoroughly enjoy.<br />I originally read this book several years ago and enjoyed it so much that I decided to purchase the unabridged audiobook for a road trip. It provided seventeen hours of pure listening pleasure, as the narrator, Michael Page, is absolutely superlative. He manages to imbue each character with its own recognizable voice and personality. I was able to tear myself away from the car only with great difficulty, at times, as I was so engrossed by the story and its telling.<br />This is a terrific book. Whether one reads it or has it read to them makes no difference, as it is a captivating and wholly entertaining work of well written fiction. Bravo!	2002-11-11
1351282:US	49355567	R2B4P1E2PA33TC	0736643575	575060326	Charming Billy	Books	2	19	30	N	N	NOT SO CHARMING BILLY...	I am amazed that this book won the National Book Award in 1998. While the author's prose is lush and evocative of times gone by and captures the flavor of lower middle class life among a tightly knit group of Irish Americans in Queens, New York, it easily loses the reader's interest despite some of its complex themes and occasional poignancy. Quite frankly,  it is a somewhat dull book with little to redeem it, as the title character is anything but charming. Billy is nothing more than a self-absorbed boozer who eventually drinks himself to death. The reader ends up not caring a whit for Billy.<br />What is at the core of his problem? Only that when Billy was young, he fell in love with an Irish girl named Eva who returned to Ireland. He planned to marry her and sent her five hundred dollars to pay for her return trip back to the states. Instead, she stayed in Ireland, married someone else, and used Billy's money to better her personal circumstances. When Billy's cousin found out the truth, he made the momentous decision of telling Billy that Eva had died, so as to spare his feelings.<br />His cousin's decision to tell this falsehood, turned out to be a life defining moment for Billy. He eventually entered into a loveless, sterile marriage, worked two jobs, and  drank himself into a stupor just about every chance he got. After his premature death, everyone at the wake reminisces about Billy. These other characters, in general, lead dismal, insular lives, and none seem to have any redeeming grace about them. They are as pathetic as Billy in their own ways. They also reminisce about the Irish girl. This is dispositive of how empty a life Billy led that a summer romance of his from some thirty years prior would be rehashed ad nauseum. Quite frankly, there is not all that much to say about this sad sack of a man. What is said is often repetitious and trite.<br /><br />This unabridged audiobook is narrated by Roses Prichard, one of the worst readers I have ever heard on audiotape. How she was ever given the green light to read this book is beyond me. At times, she is almost unintelligible. At best, her voice is grating and annoying, and when she puts on an Irish brogue she is nigh unbearable. To compound the problem, the book shifts timelines so often that, at times, it is a bit confusing and has a somewhat jarring effect. This audiobook deserves three stars for content and one star for its narration. This translates into a final rating of two stars.udiotape. How she was ever given the green light to read this book is beyond me. At times, she is almost unintelligible. At best, her voice is grating and annoying, and when she puts on an Irish brogue she is nigh unbearable. To compound the problem, the book shifts timelines so often that, at times, it is a bit confusing and has a somewhat jarring effect. This audiobook deserves three stars for content and one star for its narration. This translates into a final rating of two stars.	2002-11-05
1370009:US	49355567	R1E1D0NBLYJ9NS	042516098X	71891417	Hornet's Nest (Andy Brazil)	Books	1	15	19	N	N	THIS BOOK WAS DOA...	I have read a number of other Patricia Cornwell books from her Dr. Kay Scarpetta series. While they have all varied in quality, they usually range from good to excellent. That is why this book was a complete shock, as it is one of the worst books that I have read in a long time.<br />This book is not a Dr. Kay Scarpetta series book. Instead, it is a police procedural that focuses on three individuals: Charlotte's stalwart Police Chief Judy Hammer, her drop dead gorgeous Deputy Chief Virginia West, and Andy Brazil, an intrepid, young news reporter. Unfortunately, while the premise may have been inspired, the book fails in its execution, with characters that never quite work, relationships that are far fetched or never quite gel, a plot that lacks focus and fails to capture the reader's imagination, as well as an excess of mediocre writing in need of serious editing.<br />This audio book also suffers from a painful reading by noted actor Chris Sarandon, whose performance on this audio book is almost embarrassing. Narrated in a precise, almost prissy manner, his performance lacks a certain grit that is almost demanded by a police procedural. Moreover, his segues into the different characters are done in a way that grate upon the ear. Chris, a word to the wise...don't quit your day job.<br />Readers beware. This book was DOA. Do not spend one cent on this turkey. If you feel the urge for turkey, Thanksgiving is just around the corner. Be thankful that you have not wasted your money on this book.	2002-10-20
1370777:US	49355567	R14Z190305AIC2	0449214435	253261889	The Prince and the Quakeress	Books	4	9	10	N	Y	THE EARLY LIFE OF KING GEORGE III, WHEN PRINCE OF WALES...	Jean Plaidy, beloved author of historical fiction, is known to her millions of fans world wide as Victoria Holt. A masterful storyteller who can weave a tapestry of little known historical facts into an engrossing and well written novel, she tells the story of a young Prince of Wales, who would later go on to become King George III, and a that of a young quakeress named Hannah Lightfoot. When their paths crossed one day, theirs would be a romance that would transcend royal protocol.<br />This novel, set against a backdrop of political intrigues and aristocrats jockeying for power, tells the story of a young, idealistic Prince of Wales and his deep and abiding affection for a beautiful, young quakeress, Hannah Lightfoot, who happened to catch his eye one day while he was riding through the streets. She, a commoner, would go against all her beliefs for his love, and he, a future King of England, would flout those who would try to control him in order to be with this woman whom he loved with the ardor and devotion of the very young.<br />Their bittersweet romance provides a birdseye view into the upbringing of the Prince of Wales, as well as a peek into the sybaritic court of  George II. Their love is set against a backdrop of manipulative and self-seeking courtiers who would attempt to use their knowledge of the Prince's secret romance with this young quakeress for their personal gain. Theirs would be a love that would disappear into the footnotes of history, until the author wove it into this absorbing and poignant account of a forbidden, first love that would have historical implications.	2002-10-19
1377505:US	49355567	R3ODRFCKBQYQ3U	0312278586	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	3	8	13	N	Y	OVERRATED AND MEDIA HYPED BEACH BOOK...	I had originally thought that this was going to be a work of non-fiction in a nanny tell all. It turned out, instead, to be a mildly funny look at the rich and obnoxious and their young children through the eyes of a spineless nanny. While some of this book is amusing, it is not  particularly well written. It is the kind of book you read once, and then promptly forget. It is not a bad book, as it is somewhat entertaining. What this book really represents is what happens when a book grabs the attention of the media. It becomes a best seller. Long after the dust settles, I anticipate that this book will be to the publishing world, what a one hit wonder is to the music industry.<br />This work of fiction provides caricatures of selfish, self-absorbed, wealthy parents and a peek into the life of their overly-structured and overly-managed offspring. The nanny in question is also a caricature, as she struggles to be appear good hearted, but in the end is just a spineless jellyfish who goes along with the program, no matter how offensive she may find her employers and their demands to be. The nanny tries to come across as an underprivileged, put upon employee, but is, in reality, part of the problem, as she is certainly not a part of the solution. She is an upper middle class young woman who attends a prestigious university. She is hardly one of the hoi polloi, no matter how much she may empathize with those who are truly at the mercy of employers such as the ones found in this book. As social satire this book falls short. Borrow it from the library. Do not bother to buy it, as it is a one note book. If you feel that you must buy it, do yourself a favor and wait until it is available in paperback. It is a quick, throwaway read.	2002-10-14
1382813:US	49355567	R14JLT2CI1KXSC	1561001600	318658068	Guardian	Books	3	4	6	N	N	IT COULD HAVE BEEN A CONTENDER...	This is a book that might have had a chance had the author not been so self-indulgent. The book was milked for more than it was worth  and stretched to the breaking point. It needed better editing, as it was overlong and repetitive. Though the premise was mildly interesting, it falls far short of its intended mark, due to its overall lack of tension. It is not one of the author's better books.<br />It begins promisingly enough, when MaryAnne Carpenter, who lives in New Jersey with a philandering husband and their two children, Alison and Logan, gets a call telling her that her best friend and her wealthy husband have both died accidentally, leaving an only child, Joey. As he is her godchild, MaryAnne travels with her children to Idaho, where  the Wilkensons lived on a magnificent ranch. There she discovers that she has been named as Joey's guardian.<br />While there, she notices that Joey is a loner, a strange child who becomes stranger with every passing moment. Joey himself senses that there is something different about him. here There is even a suspicion that Joey himself may have been responsible in some way for the deaths of his parents. Meanwhile, mysterious murders begin to take place in the rural countryside in which Joey lives. Evil seems to be all around them, as a malevolent force begins to strike at them. Who or what is it? Could it be the mysterious stranger who is spotted from time to time? Or is it someone or someething else?<br />The book seems to degenerate into ludicrousness, as the reader is expected to believe that MaryAnne, knowing what she knows, is allowing her children, with and without Joey, to wander around the ranch where the Wilkensons mysteriously died. She permits this, even after savage murders have taken place very close to the ranch. The book further degenerates when the characters seem to be mere fodder for the predator that is out there in the wilderness, waiting for the moment to strike yet again. This book could have been a contender, had its editor seen fit to pare it down to a point where there might still be some tension left in the book.<br />This audiobook, however, is very well read by David Regal in a somber, somewhat sepulchral, tone that suits the tenor of the book and adds to its ambiance. The pacing of the reading is excellent, and the voice transitions of each character are fairly effective. The sound quality of the audiobook is also excellent. While the narration deserves four stars, the content of the book merits only two. I am, therefore, awarding this book three stars.nder, had its editor seen fit to pare it down to a point where there might still be some tension left in the book.<br />This audiobook, however, is very well read by David Regal in a somber, somewhat sepulchral, tone that suits the tenor of the book and adds to its ambiance. The pacing of the reading is excellent, and the voice transitions of each character are fairly effective. The sound quality of the audiobook is also excellent. While the narration deserves four stars, the content of the book merits only two. I am, therefore, awarding this book three stars.	2002-10-09
1386770:US	49355567	RAYSJBAOO8614	840146871X	441593940	Las poseidas de Stepford/Stepford Wives (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	BARBIE RULES...	This is a thought provoking, tautly written novella. A gem of suspense, it was first published in the early nineteen seventies and went on to become a popular movie of the same name, starring Katherine Ross.<br />The story is very simple but gripping and well written. Joanna Eberhart moves to the seemingly bucolic town of Stepford with her husband, Walter, and two children, leaving behind the dangers of big city living. An independent, assertive, intelligent, and creative woman, Joanna epitomizes the newly liberated women of the nineteen seventies. Looking for like souls with whom to become friends, she seeks out some of the other married women of the town, only to find that they are all uniformly addicted to housework, give their husbands complete obeisance, are made up to the gills, and have figures courtesy of maidenform.<br />Joanna manages to find several like minded women such as herself. Yet, when they, too, become addicted to housework after having a romantic weekend alone with their respective husbands, Joanna becomes convinced that the town's Men's Association has hatched a sinister plot to change all the wives of Stepford into submissive Barbie dolls. Will Joanna manage to escape the fate of the rest of the Stepford wives? Read the book and find out. You will not be disappointed.	2002-10-05
1387170:US	49355567	R2TM12NBWGJNGF	0593042298	683181299	Kate Hannigan's Girl	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A MEDIOCRE NOVEL BY A WONDERFUL AUTHOR...	In this, her one hundredth published novel, the author takes a nosedive. For the legions of Catherine Cookson fans, it would have been better not to posthumously publish this mediocre novel and let the author rest in peace on her well deserved laurels. Catherine Cookson was a wonderful storyteller, but this book falls a bit short of her previous high marks.<br />Set in early twentieth century England, this is the story of Annie Hannigan, a girl who, through her mother's marriage to a wealthy country doctor, goes from rags to riches. A flaxen haired, blue eyed beauty, Annie has her share of heartache when the boy she loves, Terence Macbane, seems elusive and out of reach. Her heartbreak is compounded when a viscious acquiantance, Cathleen Davidson, makes it her business to try and see that Annie and Terence never get together by putting Terence into her predatory crosshairs. Who shall be the victor? I am afraid that you will have to read the book and find out.<br />The usual themes found in a Catherine Cookson novel are found in this one, as well. Class conflicts, as well as romance and familial ties, abound. Unfortunately, the characters are not particularly well drawn, and the reader will find it difficult to care about what happens to any of them. It reads more like a work in progress. Unless you already are a Catherine Cookson devotee, you will find it hard to find this book of interest. If you are not a fan, deduct one star from  my rating.	2002-10-05
1387197:US	49355567	R3FQ3Y8FQM1GCT	0399132945	970472137	Courts of Love: The Story of Eleanor of Aquitaine (Queens of England, Vol 5)	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	THE FIRST FEMINIST...	In this, the fifth volume in her Queens of England series of novels, the author, also known as Victoria Holt to her legion of fans, tackles the story of Eleanor of Aquitaine, a woman who led an incomparable life. Born in an age when women tended to be submissive and docile, Eleanor was anything but. She was an outspoken, well educated, independent, and beautiful woman. Hers is a story that, in the hands this author, an accomplished storyteller, captivates the reader.<br />Eleanor, Duchess of Aquitaine, became Queen of France when she entered into a marriage of state with Louis VII of France, a somewhat weak and ineffectual, though pious, young ruler. Theirs was not a passionate affair of the heart but, rather, a mesalliance that would come to a somewhat abrupt end, when she met Henry II, the first Plantagenet King of England. Though she was eleven years his senior, theirs was to be a tempestuous and passionate love-hate relationship that would end in marriage and span a lifetime. She would give birth to their numerous sons and daughters, two of whom would go on to reign over England, Richard the Lionhearted and John Lackland.<br />Narrated in the first person, as are all the books in this Queens of England series, Eleanor tells the reader of her adventurous and exciting life, set against a backdrop of medieval politics, intrigues, and strife. A woman who brooked little interference in her life, she decribes what it was like to have experienced and gone on a crusade. She tells of her long years as prisoner of her philandering husband, Henry II. She relates the triumphs and disappointments of her long and singular life. In doing so, she weaves a memorable tapestry of love, passion, betrayal, and heartbreak. It is an account that will keep the reader turning the pages of this unforgettable, though somewhat romanticized, account of a life lived to the fullest.	2002-10-05
1387423:US	49355567	R378JHGBDS7TF1	0399136096	759781531	The Reluctant Queen (Queens of England Series, 8th)	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	FROM LADY TO QUEEN...	This eighth book in the \\"Queens of England\\" series by the author, a master storyteller also known to her legion of fans as Victoria Holt, focuses on the life of Lady Anne of York, daughter of the Earl of Warwick, who went on to become Queen of England as the wife of King Richard III. Her story, told in a first person narrative, is an absorbing work of historical fiction.<br />The War of Roses has ended and the great Earl of Warwick, the richest and most powerful lord in England, is known as the kingmaker for having ensured that the former Duke of York be crowned King Edward IV, after having deposed mad King Henry VI of the house of Lancaster. The Earl of Warwick's family, the Nevilles, are in positions of power. Then, the King marries Elizabeth Woodville, and it is the Woodvilles that are on the ascent and the Nevilles in decline. The Earl of Warwick, who had thought himself to be the power behind the throne, suddenly finds that he has supported a King who has every intention of being his own man. This is a notion that is anathema to Warwick, and he uses his two daughters, Isabel and Anne, as pawns in a dangerous game of political intrigue.<br />After her father's death in battle during a political falling out with King Edward IV, Anne goes on to marry the love of her life, the King's younger brother, Richard. Through her eyes the reader sees all the political intrigues of the day and the rise and fall of various personages, as the political winds shift. Despite all of the turbulence around her, Anne and Richard live many happy years in Northern England, far from the Court of King Edward IV.<br />When the King dies, her world radically changes. Richard, who was chosen to be Lord Protector of the Realm by his brother, chooses, instead, to declare his nephew, Edward V, illegitimate, and himself the King. What happens to his nephew, Edward V, as well as Edward's younger brother, remains a mystery to this day. Through Anne's eyes, we see her view her changing world with dismay and trepidation, as her husband changes into someone she barely recognizes, and she is thrust into a role for which she had no desire, that of Queen of England.<br />This is a wonderfully told work of historical fiction by a superlative storyteller. The reader need not have read the prior volumes in the series before reading this one. Each book in the series stands on its own. The entire series, however, is a must read for all those who enjoy well written, historical fiction.dismay and trepidation, as her husband changes into someone she barely recognizes, and she is thrust into a role for which she had no desire, that of Queen of England.<br />This is a wonderfully told work of historical fiction by a superlative storyteller. The reader need not have read the prior volumes in the series before reading this one. Each book in the series stands on its own. The entire series, however, is a must read for all those who enjoy well written, historical fiction.	2002-10-05
1387526:US	49355567	R3EGKEPEVIO0RE	0709044615	197865124	The Pleasures of Love	Books	4	3	3	N	N	THE TRIALS AND TRIBULATIONS OF BEING QUEEN...	Jean Plaidy, also known to her legion of fans as Victoria Holt, was a prolific writer of historical fiction. In this, her ninth volume in her \\"Queens of England\\" series of books, she relates the first person narrative of a little known Queen, Catherine of Braganza, who married Charles II of England. Together, they led England during the restoration of the monarchy, after the death of Oliver Cromwell saw the end of Puritan rule in England.<br />The marriage of Catherine of Braganza, who was from Portugal, to the newly restored King of England, Charles II, was a purely political alliance. Catherine was the daughter of King Juan IV of Portugal, who had previously been known as the Duke of Braganza, a vassal of Spain, as Spain had invaded Portugal in his father's time. When Catherine was five, after sixty years under Spanish rule, her father drove out the Spaniards and assumed his rightful role. His rule was a tenuous one, however, as the only foreign countries who recognized Juan IV as King of Portugal were France and England, who were enemies of Spain, at the time. The Pope, however, under the thumb of the Spaniards, did not, and other countries followed suit.<br />When Catherine, the Infanta of Portugal, was about eighteen years of age, her father died, leaving her mother, Donna Luiza, Queen Regent, of Portugal, as her brother, Alfonso, was only thirteen years old. Shortly thereafter, in the year 1658, Cromwell died, and within two years, Charles II of England was restored to his throne. Donna Luiza sought the marriage of her daughter, Catherine, to Charles II, as a way of being able to shore up her defenses against the ever pervasive threat of Spanish subjugation. By the time Catherine was twenty two, she was married to the thirty year old King of England.<br />Catherine was a Catholic Queen in a Protestant England that had never forgotten the cruelties of their last Catholic ruler, Mary Tudor, also known as \\"Blody Mary\\", for her excesses againt those of the Protestant faith. Consequently, the English were cool in their reception of Catherine. Moreover, she was married to a King who was a natural philanderer and whose amorous escapades with the beautiful, though notorious, Lady Castlemaine, as well as with the cockney actress, Nell Gwynne, among others, would cause her much heartache.<br />When Catherine failed to produce an heir, and it became clear that she was barren, there was much political intrigue in hopes that Charles II would divorce her and marry someone with whom he could beget an heir. That the King was capable of doing so was evident from the number of children he begat with his mistresses. Still, this merry monarch, much beloved by his people who viewed his amorous escapes with amusement, refused to discard his faithful and loyal wife, despite the fact that the public reviled her.<br />The author weaves a compelling, first person narrative of a Queen whose  personal travails are little known. Against a backdrop of historical events, political intrigues, and well known personages, her story artfully unfolds, capturing the imagination of the reader. Hers is a story all too familiar. It is the story of a young noblewoman whose personal happines is subjugated to matters of state. Well written, it is a somewhat romaticized account of a life lived in the shadow of  political expediency, and its pathos will keep the reader turning the pages.ant faith. Consequently, the English were cool in their reception of Catherine. Moreover, she was married to a King who was a natural philanderer and whose amorous escapades with the beautiful, though notorious, Lady Castlemaine, as well as with the cockney actress, Nell Gwynne, among others, would cause her much heartache.<br />When Catherine failed to produce an heir, and it became clear that she was barren, there was much political intrigue in hopes that Charles II would divorce her and marry someone with whom he could beget an heir. That the King was capable of doing so was evident from the number of children he begat with his mistresses. Still, this merry monarch, much beloved by his people who viewed his amorous escapes with amusement, refused to discard his faithful and loyal wife, despite the fact that the public reviled her.<br />The author weaves a compelling, first person narrative of a Queen whose  personal travails are little known. Against a backdrop of historical events, political intrigues, and well known personages, her story artfully unfolds, capturing the imagination of the reader. Hers is a story all too familiar. It is the story of a young noblewoman whose personal happines is subjugated to matters of state. Well written, it is a somewhat romaticized account of a life lived in the shadow of  political expediency, and its pathos will keep the reader turning the pages.	2002-10-05
1391404:US	49355567	R2PBL7BOQ5MJB1	0425175405	636904914	Black Notice (Kay Scarpetta)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	NOT JUST ANOTHER WEREWOLF STORY...	This is an intriguing and well crafted Kay Scarpetta mystery, which begins promisingly enough with the discovery of an overly ripe, dead body. Found stashed in a locked and sealed freight container aboard a cargo ship from Belgium that has landed in Dr. Kay Scarpetta's jurisdiction of Richmond, Virginia, the male, mystery corpse is covered with loose hairs. This intriguing beginning sends Dr. Kay Scarpetta, Richmond, Virginia's Chief Medical Examiner, on a hunt for information that turns international in scope. She discovers that this is just one of a number of murders to contain those tell tale hairs.<br />The murders, themselves, are graphic and the forensic details, as always, are fascinating, and Dr. Scarpetta's critical analysis of the pathology issues are well thought out and highly informative, as she sifts through the forensic evidence in order to profile the killer. Her assessment of the peculiar affliction of this serial killer is intriguing, providing scientific insight into creatures who were called werewolves, but who may have only been persons with a rare and unusual genetic condition, causing them to be especially hirsute, among other anomalies.<br />Moreover, there are a number of subplots afoot. Dr. Scarpetta, who is recovering from the death of her lover, Wesley Benton, faces a number of problems closer to home. It seems that she has been the victim of identity theft, with her internet screen name being used to set up a phony chat room, and personally destructive emails being sent falsely under her screen name.<br />To add fuel to the fire, a new Deputy Chief in the Richmond police Department, Diane Bray, and has managed to demote Dr. Scarpetta's long time friend, Homicide Detective Pete Marino. Having her own secret agenda, Bray has turned her sights onto Dr. Scarpetta, desiring to get jurisdiction over the Medical Examiner's Office. Perfidy also exist among Dr. Scarpetta's trusted staff, and her niece Lucy, who is still not operating with a full deck, is on a dangerous, undercover police mission with her lover in Miami, adding yet another worry to Dr. Scarpetta's already full plate.<br />It is the camaraderie between Pete Marino and Dr. Kay Scarpetta, however, that holds this particular book together. Their repartee and dialogue is wonderful, giving evidence of their comfortable and close relationship, without saying so in so many words. They carp as if they were an old married couple. Lucy, Dr. Scarpetta's niece, however, is still a loose cannon, and it is unbelievable that any police agency would allow her to run around with a gun in her hand, given her record for shooting it off. Mercifully, this annoying character has a smaller role than usual in this novel, and the reader may only hope that she will either be written out altogether or get an attitude adjustment.<br />The ending of the book, however, is a little too pat. Dr. Scarpetta's actions in the book's grand finale are not really believable for such an astute and normally cautious woman. Given what she already knows about the killer, her actions in the end bespeak more of the actions of an unknowing civilian. Still, this book does not fail to entertain and is sure to provide reading pleasure for many Kay Scarpetta devotees.deck, is on a dangerous, undercover police mission with her lover in Miami, adding yet another worry to Dr. Scarpetta's already full plate.<br />It is the camaraderie between Pete Marino and Dr. Kay Scarpetta, however, that holds this particular book together. Their repartee and dialogue is wonderful, giving evidence of their comfortable and close relationship, without saying so in so many words. They carp as if they were an old married couple. Lucy, Dr. Scarpetta's niece, however, is still a loose cannon, and it is unbelievable that any police agency would allow her to run around with a gun in her hand, given her record for shooting it off. Mercifully, this annoying character has a smaller role than usual in this novel, and the reader may only hope that she will either be written out altogether or get an attitude adjustment.<br />The ending of the book, however, is a little too pat. Dr. Scarpetta's actions in the book's grand finale are not really believable for such an astute and normally cautious woman. Given what she already knows about the killer, her actions in the end bespeak more of the actions of an unknowing civilian. Still, this book does not fail to entertain and is sure to provide reading pleasure for many Kay Scarpetta devotees.	2002-10-01
1391485:US	49355567	R13WOBPALH3MOR	0451157699	579745872	The Fog	Books	5	4	5	N	N	DO NOT GET CAUGHT IN...THE FOG	This is a superlative, well crafted horror story with a quite original storyline. Taking place in foggy, old England, a dense, yellowish fog suddenly arises from the depths of the earth, infiltrating the minds of all whom it envelopes and taking away all restraint. Suddenly, all formerly sane individuals find themselves acting as if they were beings out of Dante's Inferno. It is a disaster from which there is seemingly no end.<br />As the fog moves from place to place, it leaves in its wake a swath of grisly devastation, as murders, rapes, mass suicides, and looting become a way of life. Even animals succumb to the fog, as treasured pets turn on their owners. Only one man has managed to emerge with his sanity still intact, and a group of scientists in an underground laboratory are laboring to find out the reason for his seeming immunity. For in him lies the secret to the fog's destruction and the liberation of mankind from the effects of the fog. Time, however, is of the essence and running out.<br />This is really a terrific novel, well paced, tautly written, and totally absorbing. It is an absolute page turner, with scenes of horror matter factly written, making it all the more believable and horrific, while tinged by a trace of dark humor. The tension is crisply maintained throughout the entire book, from start to finish, and makes for a riveting read that is hard to put down. This is a must read for all those who love a good horror story. Bravo!	2002-10-01
1391564:US	49355567	R1JT43HZRLBLAC	0449221911	289843438	Melisande	Books	4	11	11	N	N	TRUTH IS STRANGER THAN FICTION...	This book is actually a reprint of the book originally released under the name \\"It Began In Vauxhall Gardens\\". It is based upon a true story that occurred in nineteenth century England that went on to become one of it's most notorious scandals. It is a gripping account of the events that impacted upon a young woman's life and her resolution of the seemingly insoluble.<br />This engrossing, historical fiction details the life of an exquisitely beautiful, young girl, Melisande St. Martin, who is brought up in a French convent, not knowing who her parents are. One day, when she is a young teenager, an Englishman whom she has seen in town from time to time, Sir Charles Trevenning, goes to the convent. Claiming to be her guardian, though he is, in fact, her father, he takes Melisande to England with him, his wife having died, so that she can be a companion to his legitimate daughter, Caroline.<br />So begins Melisande's bizarre oddysey in life. After the grimness of life in the French convent, Melisande is thrilled by the promise of a new, more secular, life in a grand manor house in Cornwall. All, however, is not what it seems. As soon as Melisande arrives, she captures the unwanted attentions of Fermor, Caroline's devastatingly handsome fiance, incurring Caroline's bitter jealousy. Melisande tries to escape his attentions by developing a relationship with a French expatriate, Leon de la Roche, only to find that he, too, has issues.<br />Ultimately, through the gossip of the servants, Melisande discovers that the kindly gentleman, whom she thought was her guardian, is, in fact, her father. He, wishing to preserve his reputation and avoid scandal, sends the still innocent Melisande to London, placing her in the care of Fennella, a wealthy and kindly woman of dubious reputation. There, things do not go according to plan, and Melisande leaves Fennella's home, finding a position as lady's maid to a Mrs. Lavender. It is in the Lavender's home that she makes the acquaintance of a yet another man who is to disappoimt her. Their relationship would culminate in an event that would find eighteen year old Melisande standing trial for murder.of a yet another man who is to disappoimt her. Their relationship would culminate in an event that would find eighteen year old Melisande standing trial for murder.	2002-10-01
1391677:US	49355567	R3W4EBAV2TS3R4	1930252986	79132223	Puppet Child	Books	5	6	7	N	N	SHOCKING AND GRIPPING...	This is a very strong, well written, debut novel. Taut and suspenseful, it immediately captures the reader with its absolutely shocking prologue, as it pulls no punches. This chilling and disturbing beginning grabs the reader, hook, line, and sinker. From then on, the reader will not stop turning the pages of this well crafted book, until the reader has devoured it in its entirety.<br />The author tells the story of a mother's struggle to free her five year old daughter from a sexual predator, the child's own father. It is a story precipitated by the emotional pain of a five year old child who has been living a nightmare at her father's hands, courtesy of the New York Family Court system. The shocking subject matter is handled with great sensitivity by the author.<br /><br />The impact that this all has on the child, her mother, and, ultimately, her friends and family is at the crux of the story, which moves rapidly along. It is the story of a woman who had it all and risked losing it for the sake of her child. It is a well told tale with a basis in fact. Moreover, the author manages to have a few surprises in store for the reader.<br />The story is reminiscent of a true life drama that hit the news a number of years ago, when a Dr. Elizabeth Morgan was held in civil contempt and jailed for over two years for refusing to reveal the whereabouts of her daughter, Hilary. She was driven by the fear that Hilary's father, Dr. Eric Foretich, whom she had accused of sexually molesting the child, would be given continued access to the child, despite allegations of sexual abuse. Dr. Morgan's parents had, in fact, taken Hilary to another country, so that the child could live a life free of her alleged sexual predator.<br />If this true life drama is of interest, then you will, undoubtedly, enjoy reading &#34;Puppet Child&#34;. The book is an indictment of the New York Family Court system and a cry for justice for all children who are at the mercy of a sexual predator within their own family.eir own family.	2002-10-01
1391907:US	49355567	RMPP9943IECB5	0425163407	529898130	Unnatural Exposure (Kay Scarpetta)	Books	3	36	38	N	N	ANOTHER KAY SCARPETTA MYSTERY...	This is a somewhat interesting, Dr. Kay Scarpetta mystery, replete with its usual attention to forensic detail, as well as a myriad of subplots. Though not her best novel, it still manages to entertain the reader.<br /><br />Once again, Dr. Scarpetta, Chief Medical Examiner, finds herself on the hunt for a serial killer, when the body of an elderly, dismembered woman is discovered in a Virginia landfill. Moreover, a mutated, high tech, variant small pox virus appears to be on the loose, and Dr. Scarpetta finds herself receiving taunting emails from the alleged killer, signing as \\"deadoc\\". Couple all this with an overly ambitious and unscrupulous law enforcement agent named Percy Ring who arrests an obviously innocent man for the elderly woman's death, and the reader has an intriguing mystery to unravel.<br /><br />Homicide Detective Pete Marino is pivotol to the success of this book. His relationship and repartee with Dr. Scarpetta contribute to many of the book's highlights, and it is he who gives dimension to the book, as he is simply a wonderful, down to earth character. Dr. Scarpetta's relationship with FBI Agent Wesley Benton is less memorable, as he is on the periphery of the story, for the most part, though in the end he provides closure for the torch Dr. Scarpetta was carrying for her ex-lover, Mark.<br /><br />The only real fly in the ointment, however, is the continued appearance of Dr. Scarpetta's niece, Lucy, who is an obnoxious character. In the real world, Lucy would not be allowed to hold the position of responsibility that she does in the book, due to her compete immaturity. She is a loose cannon waitng to misfire at any moment. It flies in the face of her professionalism that Dr. Scarpetta seems unable to fathom this, but blood is thicker than water.<br /><br />The ending is somewhat surprising, though in retrospect, the clues are, in fact, there for the reader to discern the identity of the killer. The problem is that the resolution occurs almost too abruptly, as if the author had only a limited number of pages in which to wrap it all up. While the book moves somewhat slowly for the most part, the last few chapters move at lightning speed. A better editing job may have helped make this book into a more cohesive, better written mystery. Still, Kay Scarpetta fans will find something to enjoy in this offering.oo abruptly, as if the author had only a limited number of pages in which to wrap it all up. While the book moves somewhat slowly for the most part, the last few chapters move at lightning speed. A better editing job may have helped make this book into a more cohesive, better written mystery. Still, Kay Scarpetta fans will find something to enjoy in this offering.	2002-10-01
1407265:US	49355567	R3BAPIISVH8GPX	0399134298	179922336	In the Shadow of the Crown (Queens of England)	Books	5	31	31	N	Y	BLOODY MARY...	Jean Plaidy, known to her legion of fans as Victoria Holt, continues her \\"Queens of England\\" series of books with this, her sixth volume. It is a well written and engrossing work of historical fiction written as a first person narrative by Mary Tudor, daughter of King Henry VIII of England and Queen Katherine. Mary would eventually become Queen of England in her own right and leave a legacy whereby her subjects would remember her as \\"Bloody Mary\\".<br /><br />As the only child of Henry VIII and Katherine of Aragon, the future seemed rosy for the Princess Mary. She lived a fairytale life until her father, obsessed with begetting a male heir, fell for the charms of Anne Boleyn. From that moment on, life would never be the same for Mary. Her world was torn asunder, as her father became someone whom she did not recognize. His cruelties to her and her mother, Katherine, would leave an indelible mark on her life. Divorcing her mother to marry the notorious Anne Boleyn and splitting from the Catholic Church of Rome, Henry would set England on a course that would change history. It would also serve to reinforce Mary's Catholicism, the faith of her pious, long suffering mother.<br /><br />Upon the death of her father, Mary would, along with her half sister Elizabeth, daughter of Henry and Anne Boleyn, become a pawn in the political intrigues of the day in which religion would become a focal issue. When Mary became Queen after the premature death of her sickly half brother, Edward VI, son of her father, Henry, and his hapless third wife, Jane Seymour, she tried to make England return to the Catholic Church of Rome. Under the guidance of some of her advisors, she would make horrific examples of those who would fail to embrace what she viewed as the true faith, a policy that would not endear her to her subjects. This, unfortunately, would be her legacy and would, ultimately, shape the future religious identity of England.<br /><br />This is an absorbing story of one woman's struggle to survive the vicissitudes of life, the feckless love of her father, the King, the political intrigues of her day, the threat of imprisonment and death, and a loveless and childless marriage to Phillip of Spain. It is the story of a woman whose road to the throne was paved with many obstacles, and her ultimate acquisition of the crown would confer little happiness upon her. It is a spellbinding account of a life lived entirely in the shadow of the crown.ggle to survive the vicissitudes of life, the feckless love of her father, the King, the political intrigues of her day, the threat of imprisonment and death, and a loveless and childless marriage to Phillip of Spain. It is the story of a woman whose road to the throne was paved with many obstacles, and her ultimate acquisition of the crown would confer little happiness upon her. It is a spellbinding account of a life lived entirely in the shadow of the crown.	2002-09-16
1415813:US	49355567	R2JZN4ABDGB6OR	0425147622	950957632	The Body Farm	Books	4	6	11	N	N	THERE IS NO FARMER IN THE DELL...ONLY A KILLER	This story begins in the mountains of North Carolina, where eleven year old Emily Steiner lived. She had left a youth meeting at her church one afternoon and was on her way home. She never arrived. A week later, her nude, lifeless body was found.<br />Kay Scarpetta, medical examiner and noted forensic pathologist, is called in by the North Carolina authorities. After an initial review, she believes that the murder may have been commited by serial killer, Temple Gault. Long known to the FBI, he has managed to elude capture and remains at large. More careful review of the forensic evidence, however,  leaves her with unanswered question that initially puzzle her. As she endeavors to untangle these strange and tantalizing clues, she realizes that they begin to point away from Gault and in a direction more horrifying than anyone ever imagined.<br />Meanwhile, Dr. Scarpetta must contend with other issues closer to home. Her troubled niece, Lucy, an intern at the FBI facility at Quantico, becomes enmeshed in a legal controversy that threatens to derail her future employment hopes. Scarpetta's long time associate and homicide detective, Pete Marino, may have bitten off more than he could chew and has personally gotten involved with Emily Steiner's mother. Meanwhile, Dr. Scarpetta, herself, is undergoing a certain amount of personal angst over the sexual tension that is building between her and married FBI agent, Benton Wesley. All these personal concerns overlay her investigation for Emily Steiner's killer.<br />The forensic questions that arise from Emily's murder lead Dr. Scarpetta to \\"The Body Farm\\", a secret research facility in Tennessee, where some of the answers to her questions may be found. It is the forensic clues and their analysis by Dr. Scarpetta that provide the most interesting aspects of the book. All in all, it is another excellent addition to the Kay Scarpetta series and well worth reading.	2002-09-08
1415911:US	49355567	R3OCFPJVM4RBWG	1570427143	373226516	Pop Goes the Weasel (Alex Cross)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	THIS TIME IT'S PERSONAL...	This audiobook starts out as an intriguing thriller. A series of murders is sweeping Southeast Washington, DC. Detective Alex Cross, psychologist and expert profiler, nicknames this remorseless, stealthy, and psychopathic killer \\"The Weasel\\" and is itching to capture him.<br />From the beginning, the reader knows who the killer is. He is none other than urbane, British diplomat, Geoffrey Shafer, who is playing a macabre, role playing game through the internet with some of his former buddies from British intelligence. His role, appropriately enough, is \\"Death\\". The problem is that for Shafer it is no longer a game. It is an obsession.<br />Meanwhile, Detective Alex Cross and his long time main squeeze, Christine, have decided to get married, despite his relentless pursuit of \\"The Weasel\\". Just before they actually do so, however, this diabolical fiend creates a serious hitch in their wedding plans. Cross carries on, as \\"The Weasel\\" plays a cat and mouse game with him. There are a number of surprising moves and countermoves, though it seems that Detective Cross is always on the receiving end.<br />Unfortunately, while the book starts out with a bang, it sort of ends with a whimper. The author simply fails to realize the promise inherent in the book. The resolution of the issue involving his fiancee, Christine, is simply unrealistic. The final ending, however, with regards to Shafer is somewhat intriguing, as it leaves open the possibility of a sequel with this most intriguing killer.<br />This audiobook is made most engrossing by the virtuoso reading by narrator Michael Kramer. He is simply superlative. He takes this book and makes it come alive. While the content of the book rates about a strong three, Michael Kramer's reading rates a high five, which is why I am awarding this audiobook four stars.	2002-09-08
1416079:US	49355567	R1RM6I4V50N83G	0399137319	131401169	Pleasures of Love	Books	4	15	15	N	Y	THE TRIALS AND TRIBULATIONS OF BEING QUEEN...	Jean Plaidy, also known to her legion of fans as Victoria Holt, was a prolific writer of historical fiction. In this, her ninth volume in her \\"Queens of England\\" series of books, she relates the first person narrative of a little known Queen, Catherine of Braganza, who married Charles II of England. Together, they led England during the restoration of the monarchy, after the death of Oliver Cromwell saw the end of Puritan rule in England.<br />The marriage of Catherine of Braganza, who was from Portugal, to the newly restored King of England, Charles II, was a purely political alliance. Catherine was the daughter of King Juan IV of Portugal, who had previously been known as the Duke of Braganza, a vassal of Spain, as Spain had invaded Portugal in his father's time. When Catherine was five, after sixty years under Spanish rule, her father drove out the Spaniards and assumed his rightful role. His rule was a tenuous one, however, as the only foreign countries who recognized Juan IV as King of Portugal were France and England, who were enemies of Spain, at the time. The Pope, however, under the thumb of the Spaniards, did not, and other countries followed suit.<br />When Catherine, the Infanta of Portugal, was about eighteen years of age, her father died, leaving her mother, Donna Luiza, Queen Regent, of Portugal, as her brother, Alfonso, was only thirteen years old. Shortly thereafter, in the year 1658, Cromwell died, and within two years, Charles II of England was restored to his throne. Donna Luiza sought the marriage of her daughter, Catherine, to Charles II, as a way of being able to shore up her defenses against the ever pervasive threat of Spanish subjugation. By the time Catherine was twenty two, she was married to the thirty year old King of England.<br />Catherine was a Catholic Queen in a Protestant England that had never forgotten the cruelties of their last Catholic ruler, Mary Tudor, also known as \\"Blody Mary\\", for her excesses againt those of the Protestant faith. Consequently, the English were cool in their reception of Catherine. Moreover, she was married to a King who was a natural philanderer and whose amorous escapades with the beautiful, though notorious, Lady Castlemaine, as well as with the cockney actress, Nell Gwynne, among others, would cause her much heartache.<br />When Catherine failed to produce an heir, and it became clear that she was barren, there was much political intrigue in hopes that Charles II would divorce her and marry someone with whom he could beget an heir. That the King was capable of doing so was evident from the number of children he begat with his mistresses. Still, this merry monarch, much beloved by his people who viewed his amorous escapades with amusement, refused to discard his faithful and loyal wife, despite the fact that the public reviled her.<br />The author weaves a compelling, first person narrative of a Queen whose  personal travails are little known. Against a backdrop of historical events, political intrigues, and well known personages, her story artfully unfolds, capturing the imagination of the reader. Hers is a story all too familiar. It is the story of a young noblewoman whose personal happines is subjugated to matters of state. Well written, it is a somewhat romaticized account of a life lived in the shadow of  political expediency, and its pathos will keep the reader turning the pages.ant faith. Consequently, the English were cool in their reception of Catherine. Moreover, she was married to a King who was a natural philanderer and whose amorous escapades with the beautiful, though notorious, Lady Castlemaine, as well as with the cockney actress, Nell Gwynne, among others, would cause her much heartache.<br />When Catherine failed to produce an heir, and it became clear that she was barren, there was much political intrigue in hopes that Charles II would divorce her and marry someone with whom he could beget an heir. That the King was capable of doing so was evident from the number of children he begat with his mistresses. Still, this merry monarch, much beloved by his people who viewed his amorous escapades with amusement, refused to discard his faithful and loyal wife, despite the fact that the public reviled her.<br />The author weaves a compelling, first person narrative of a Queen whose  personal travails are little known. Against a backdrop of historical events, political intrigues, and well known personages, her story artfully unfolds, capturing the imagination of the reader. Hers is a story all too familiar. It is the story of a young noblewoman whose personal happines is subjugated to matters of state. Well written, it is a somewhat romaticized account of a life lived in the shadow of  political expediency, and its pathos will keep the reader turning the pages.	2002-09-08
1424091:US	49355567	R3FJUEA55XIVI5	1856952223	970472137	The Courts Of Love (Isis Series)	Books	4	23	25	N	Y	THE FIRST FEMINIST...	In this, the fifth volume in her Queens of England series of novels, the author, also known as Victoria Holt to her legion of fans, tackles the story of Eleanor of Aquitaine, a woman who led an incomparable life. Born in an age when women tended to be submissive and docile, Eleanor was anything but. She was an outspoken, well educated, independent, and beautiful woman. Hers is a story that, in the hands this author, an accomplished storyteller, captivates the reader.<br />Eleanor, Duchess of Aquitaine, became Queen of France when she entered into a marriage of state with Louis VII of France, a somewhat weak and ineffectual, though pious, young ruler. Theirs was not a passionate affair of the heart but, rather, a mesalliance that would come to a somewhat abrupt end, when she met Henry II, the first Plantagenet King of England. Though she was eleven years his senior, theirs was to be a tempestuous and passionate love-hate relationship that would end in marriage and span a lifetime. She would give birth to their numerous sons and daughters, two of whom would go on to reign over England, Richard the Lionhearted and John Lackland.<br />Narrated in the first person, as are all the books in this Queens of England series, Eleanor tells the reader of her adventurous and exciting life, set against a backdrop of medieval politics, intrigues, and strife. A woman who brooked little interference in her life, she decribes what it was like to have experienced and gone on a crusade. She tells of her long years as prisoner of her philandering husband, Henry II. She relates the triumphs and disappointments of her long and singular life. In doing so, she weaves a memorable tapestry of love, passion, betrayal, and heartbreak. It is an account that will keep the reader turning the pages of this unforgettable, though somewhat romanticized, account of a life lived to the fullest.	2002-08-31
1428842:US	49355567	R3K6LHJEZ3NF9H	0449206483	177189131	MYSELF MY ENEMY (The Queens of England, Vol. 1)	Books	5	29	30	N	Y	THE ROAD THAT LED TO REGICIDE...	This is the first volume in the Queens of England series of books by Jean Plaidy, who is also known to her legion of fans as Victoria Holt. It is a well written work of historical fiction that tells the story of the daughter of King Henry IV of France, Henrietta Maria, who went on to marry King Charles I of England.<br />Henrietta Maria, a Catholic, found herself married to Charles, a Protestant, living in a Protestant country, among a Protestant people. The English, at the time, viewed Catholics with deep suspicion, as the excesses of the Catholic Queen Mary, &quot;Bloody Mary&quot;, the daughter of Henry VIII, were still not forgotten. A fervent Catholic, however, Henrietta would not put aside her religion, nor was she particularly discreet about her devotion to Catholicism, and, as such, was never fully accepted by the English people.<br />Henrietta Maria was an impetuous and pretty, young woman, fond of musical revels, fashionable clothes, and gossip. Her husband, Charles, a family man of principle and integrity, was devoted to her, and together they would go on to have a number of children. Their marriage of state, made for the purpose of maintaining a Franco-English alliance, turned out to be a true love match.<br />Henrietta Maria was also, however, a puppet of Rome, charged with leading Protestant England back to Catholicism. This was to cloud her judgment, at times, and cause much trouble down the road,  and, ultimately, serve to pave the way for the rise of Cromwell and his Puritans. They would make her devotion to her religion and her influence over her husband a focal point for turbulence and civil war. Her loyalty and love for her husband was legendary, but not even she could keep him from the road that led to regicide.<br />Written in the first person, this is a wonderfully told tale of an enigmatic, little known Queen, who wielded great influence over her beloved husband. Rich with historical detail, it is an enormously entertaining novel that is rife with the political intrigues of the day. All those who love reading well written, historical fiction should enjoy it.with the political intrigues of the day. All those who love reading well written, historical fiction should enjoy it.	2002-08-26
1429820:US	49355567	R28UZ9I10TPU1	1570429693	543219405	Wish You Well	Books	5	139	142	N	N	TAKE ME HOME...COUNTRY HOME...	Having read a number of David Baldacci's books, most of which are well written, engrossing thrillers, this one is quite different. It is not a thriller but, rather, a beautifully written, human drama, most of which takes place in the mountains of Virginia. In this unabridged, audiobook edition, the richness of the drama and the beauty of the writing is brought to life by the wonderful narration of Norma Lana, who manages to convey the down home sense of feeling that is palpable in the book.<br />This is a coming of age story. It is the story of the Cardinal family, as seen throught the young eyes of twelve year old Louisa Mae Cardinal, known as Lou, a precocious twelve year old, whose father is a highly acclaimed writer of note with great literary distinction but little commercial success. She lives with her beloved father, her mother, and her younger brother, Oz, in New York City. The year is 1940. The family is on the brink of moving to California, when tragedy strikes, and the lives of Lou, Oz, and their mother are forever changed.<br />Lou, Oz, and their now catatonic mother go to live with their paternal great-grandmother, Louisa, for whom Lou is named. This no nonsense, strong willed, loving matriarch lives high up in the the Appalachian mountains of Virginia, where Lou's father grew up, and that is where Lou and Oz will now grow up. They are strangers in a strange land, big city children now living on a farm without electricity, running water, or central heat. It is there that Lou comes of age and, together with her brother, Oz, has many new experiences. They are experiences that provide rights of passage and life lessons in friendship, loyalty, loss, and redemption. She gets a large dose of the good, the bad, and the ugly in life.<br />While there, big business threatens their way of life and pits the townsfolk against each other in a struggle for survival. It is a struggle that sees Louisa take a stance that will, ultimately, be the death of her, leaving the children to cope with their mother, who is physically sound, but locked in her own mind since the tragedy that changed their lives forever. The interests of big business and those of the Cardinal family clash in a Virginia courtroom in a riveting drama that is not easily forgotten. With the help of a family friend, a humble and kindly, country lawyer, things are, eventually, put to rights.<br />This well written book has richly drawn characters and a sensitive and descriptive narrative that transports the reader to another time and place. It is so evocative of the hardscrabble, mountain existence, so as to make the readers feel as if they, themselves, were experiencing it. It is a sentimental journey that is calculated to tug at one's heartstrings. It is a journey, however, well worth taking. With this book, the author has set himself apart from the pack and proclaimed himself a true literary talent.e children to cope with their mother, who is physically sound, but locked in her own mind since the tragedy that changed their lives forever. The interests of big business and those of the Cardinal family clash in a Virginia courtroom in a riveting drama that is not easily forgotten. With the help of a family friend, a humble and kindly, country lawyer, things are, eventually, put to rights.<br />This well written book has richly drawn characters and a sensitive and descriptive narrative that transports the reader to another time and place. It is so evocative of the hardscrabble, mountain existence, so as to make the readers feel as if they, themselves, were experiencing it. It is a sentimental journey that is calculated to tug at one's heartstrings. It is a journey, however, well worth taking. With this book, the author has set himself apart from the pack and proclaimed himself a true literary talent.	2002-08-25
1430249:US	49355567	R2YHY8GSZ3FGQX	0006514952	844571296	Of Marriageable Age	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	EAST MEETS WEST...	This is an exquisitely written and superlative, multi-generational novel, delicately woven with gossamer threads of human experience. It is a story of human frailties, passions, and cultural traditions. It is a spellbinding tale of several people who become unforgettable to the reader. It is an epic saga of individuals who are connected across time in a way none of them could have foreseen. A wellspring of cultural differences bear upon their futures and send them along paths none of them could have envisioned. It is, above all, a story of forbidden love that would impact on others for generations to come.<br /><br />This is the story of Savitri, a native of India, a Brahmin beauty, a healer, who fell in love with David, the son of the wealthy English family for whom she and her parents worked. Her love for David would remain constant, despite those in her own family who would seek to destroy it.<br /><br />This is the story of David, the English boy who grew up in British colonial India and never forgot his childhood sweetheart, despite the cultural and racial roadblocks placed in his path by those who did not have the gift to look into the soul of another.<br /><br />This is the story of Nat, the boy who straddled two cultures, Indian and English, whose mysterious ancestry threatened to prevent him from being united with the woman who held the key to his heart and soul.<br /><br />This is the story of Saroj, a Guyanese beauty of Indian descent, who wanted to leave the old ways, the ways of mysterious south east Asia, the ways of India, and embrace those of the west, only to find that her soul mate was one in whom both cultures had made peace.<br /><br />This is, above all else, a spellbinding story of love and passion that runs so deep that time would sustain it forever. Underlying this story are the threads of a mystery that are subtly woven into its fabric. This novel is a panoramic and sweeping saga that will cause the reader to be swept away by its depth, its richness of language, and its vividly drawn characters, and descriptive detail. The author, a very gifted writer and talented storyteller, has written a novel that will keep the reader riveted to its pages until the very last.richness of language, and its vividly drawn characters, and descriptive detail. The author, a very gifted writer and talented storyteller, has written a novel that will keep the reader riveted to its pages until the very last.	2002-08-25
1431285:US	49355567	RX5XFGGCA9KCN	0375727345	498826779	House of Sand and Fog (Oprah's Book Club)  (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	5	3	6	N	Y	A LITERARY TOUR DE FORCE...	This book is simply a masterpiece. It is an exceptionally well written and brilliantly told story of two people whose destinies become intertwined  through a simple twist of fate. It is the story of what happens to them and to those who love them, when their respective worlds collide in a climactic and tragic ending.<br />It is the story of Colonel Behrani, a formerly wealthy Iranian, who had thrived under the regime of the Shah, only to have lost everything during his country's revolution. Now, he and his family find themselves undergoing the immigrant experience in America, working to maintain appearances among their fellow exiles, and finding the going hard. Working long hours at menial jobs, Colonel Behrani longs to be a master of the universe again.<br />It is also the story of Kathy Nicolo, a woman with some serious issues. She is a sad and pathetic bottom feeder, who has lost nearly everything in life, including the one thing that has kept her somewhat anchored: the house she inherited from her father. She is a loser and innocuous bumbler who has totally squandered her life. When she loses that which she holds most dear, her house, and is summarily evicted from it, she meets Sheriff Lester Burden, a married man with children, who is smitten by her. His obsession with her would lead him down a path from which there would be no return.<br />When Colonel Behrani's quest for the American Dream finds him with an opportunity to buy a house at a bargain basement price at a county auction, he plunks down the remainder of his family's life savings. At the time, he knows nothing of the circumstances of the county's possession of that house, Kathy's house. He and his family move in. Colonel Behrani's head is filled with dreams of selling the house at a large profit, becoming a real estate speculator, and leading his family back to its former glory and place in society. He truly believes that America is the land of opportunity. He still believes in the American Dream.<br />Kathy, on the other hand, has done nothing with the opportunities afforded her. She has simply squandered them by marrying the wrong men, boozing, and drugging herself into oblivion. Living a marginal existence by cleaning houses and proving herself to be an untrustworthy and totally amoral person with little regard for others, her life is the antithesis of the American Dream. Still, she has this house, and when she loses it due to a bureacratic error, the bottom totally falls out of her life. For now, she truly has nothing. Like a dog with a bone, she refuses to let the issue go and will stop at nothing to get her house back from the Behranis, whom she views as greedy usurpers. Her view of the situation is supported by Sheriff Lester Burdon, who becomes embroiled in Kathy's struggle and takes it to a level that not even Kathy could have anticipated.<br /><br />As the author takes the reader to the book's climactic ending, the reader will not be able to put down this beautifully crafted, literary tour de force. The author evokes a distinct mood in his narrative of the Behrani family through a clever use of language and sentence structure that seems to match the syncopation of their first language, giving it a rich, three dimensional flavor. The language of Colonel Behrani has a rich infusion of the cultural milieu out of which he arose. It is a wonderful literary contrivance used to great effect by a very talented and gifted writer.<br />When the author writes about Kathy, the language and sentence structure of the narrative is simpler, looser, baser, reflective of the individual around whom the author is trying to create a mood. Again he succeeds, as Kathy is a very primal character, unlike Colonel Behrani, who is more introspective. She is someone who ruins almost everything that she touches without meaning to do so. She is a person totally lacking in self-control. When she meets Sheriff Lester Burden, a tightly wound, conflicted man, very much in control of himself, his passion for her causes him to begin to lose his self-control. He begins a downward spiral that ends in a personal meltdown. The character of Kathy is somewhat pitiable, as she is the catalyst around whom the tragic events unfold. They unfold, however, in a way that she never intended.<br />This modern day Greek tragedy, with its layers of moral and cultural complexities, is a spellbinding and suspenseful page turner, crafted by an enormously talented author who is able to construct a rich and powerful novel of the first order. It is simply a great book. Bravo!mself, his passion for her causes him to begin to lose his self-control. He begins a downward spiral that ends in a personal meltdown. The character of Kathy is somewhat pitiable, as she is the catalyst around whom the tragic events unfold. They unfold, however, in a way that she never intended.<br />This modern day Greek tragedy, with its layers of moral and cultural complexities, is a spellbinding and suspenseful page turner, crafted by an enormously talented author who is able to construct a rich and powerful novel of the first order. It is simply a great book. Bravo!	2002-08-24
1436023:US	49355567	R1GK13GVL7H6TR	1570426406	408200678	When the Wind Blows	Books	3	10	18	N	N	I CAN FLY!...I CAN FLY!...LIKE A BIRD IN THE SKY...	This is a fairly tepid audio book that has new life breathed into it by the sprited narration of Kimberly Schraf. The plot revolves around secret, government sanctioned experiments on humans, dealing with some of the ethical themes of today: cloning, genetic engineering of humans, and cross species hybrids.<br />The plot is simple. Two of the test subjects have escaped the confines of the closely guarded, secret laboratory. Matt and Max, a brother and sister team who can fly, are on the loose and being hunted down. Yet, they need only spread their wings, and, as did Icarus, Max and Matt can soar high up into the wild blue yonder. The only problem is that hunters must bring them back to the secret lab, before anyone sees them. To further complicate things, Matt and Max do not wish to be caught, because they know that bad things happen in the lab and that people, who are deemed dispensible and no longer necessary, are \\"put to sleep\\" and never seen again.<br />In the outside world, the children separate. Eleven year old Max has the good fortune to run into Frannie O'Neill, a compassionate veterinarian who immediately realizes that there is something extraordinary about Max, beyond the fact that she has real, honest-to-goodness wings and can fly. Frannie is aware that Max is more than the sum of her parts. Together with the help of an FBI agent who calls himself Kit Harrison, they will do everything they can to help Max evade her pursuers, only to become earmarked for death themselves.<br />The content of the book merits a rating of two stars as it is mediocre fare, at best, but the fervent and animated reading by the narrator merits four stars, so I am awarding this book three stars, overall. ]	2002-08-19
1437954:US	49355567	R1NTVGAHLTTZFD	0449222845	616900840	William's Wife (The Queens of England Series , Vol 9)	Books	5	12	15	N	Y	THE TORTURED ROAD TO THE REIGN OF WILLIAM AND MARY...	The author, Jean Plaidy, who is also known to her legion of fans as Victoria Holt, is a masterful writer of historical fiction. This book, the ninth volume in her &quot;Queens of England&quot; series, is an engrossing portrait of Lady Mary of York, daughter of King James II of England, who would be a future Queen of England. The story is expertly woven with sufficient historical detail so as to satisfy the most discerning readers.<br />Growing up the beloved daughter of the Duke of York, an ardent Catholic who would one day be crowned King James II of England, Mary was reared as a Protestant to conform to the will of the people. At fifteen years of age, she was forced into a political and loveless marriage with her Protestant first cousin, the dour and reserved Prince of Orange, William. She then left her beloved England to live in Holland with William.<br />Mary was to spend a number of lonely and desolate years in Holland with William, during which her uncle, King Charles II of England, died. Her father, the Duke of York, was then crowned James II. In turmoil over his avowed Catholicism, England was ripe for change. Mary's husband, William of Orange, being an ambitious man who coveted the English crown, lost no time in making sure that England stayed Protestant and took on his royal father-in-law. His victory over James II paved the way for the reign of William and Mary.<br />The author paints a portrait of a woman in conflict, torn between her love for her father and her loyalty to her husband. It details the political intrigues of the day that were to have such impact on Mary's life and shape her destiny. It is a wonderful and engrossing blend of fact and fiction. This richly textured novel is sure to delight those who enjoy historical fiction.	2002-08-18
1438936:US	49355567	R1IMFINH4AOFWU	0399139303	66045829	The Rose Without a Thorn	Books	4	18	20	N	Y	THE FIFTH WIFE OF HENRY VIII...	In this, the final novel in her &quot;Queens of England&quot; series of books, the author weaves a tapestry of political intrigue, romance, and historical detail into the story of young Katherine Howard, the fifth wife of Henry VIII. A masterful storyteller, the author, who also writes under the name Victoria Holt and has a cavalcade of devoted readers, creates a work of historical fiction that will transport the reader to another time.<br />The book details the rise and fall of Katherine Howard, a  young, impoverished noblewoman of an illustrous family. As a young girl, she was sent to live with her grandmother, the Duchess of Norfolk, where she, unfortunately, fell in with a licentious group of retainers and became ensnared in two unsuitable affairs of the heart. Little did she know that they would serve to haunt her a way she could never have imagined.<br />An opportunity, orchestrated by her Machiavellian and ambitious uncle, the Duke of Norfolk, arises for the beautiful, though foolish, Katherine to go to the Royal Court as Lady -In-Waiting to the fourth wife of Henry VIII, the kindly Anne of Cleves. Katherine obligingly goes. There, she falls in love with her cousin, Thomas Culpepper, a gentleman of the King's Bed Chamber. Her hopes of marriage to her handsome cousin are soon dashed, however, when she catches the wandering eye of the King, who loathes his current wife.<br />Having charmed the King and having little say in the matter, Katherine becomes his fifth wife, once he divorces Anne of Cleves. Katherine's initial happiness as Queen is cut short, however, when her lurid past comes to light and is brought to the King's attention. This, coupled with her indiscretions with Thomas Culpepper, are enough to abruptly terminate her brief reign over England as its Queen and cause a number of heads, including hers, to roll.<br />This is an intriguing blend of fact and fiction, which is laced with enough historical detail to satisfy those readers who enjoy historical fiction. It is with good reason that the author has a legion of devoted readers.l fiction. It is with good reason that the author has a legion of devoted readers.	2002-08-16
1444336:US	49355567	R1ZIH23NE2OGBQ	0449220087	687689749	The Queen's Secret (7th Volume of the Queens of England Series)	Books	5	39	39	N	Y	THE ORIGIN OF THE HOUSE OF TUDOR...	This is the seventh book in the Queens of England series by the author, a masterful storyteller, who is also known as Victoria Holt to her fans. It is a well written novel of historical fiction that tells the little known story of Katherine of Valois.<br />She was a French Princess, daughter of King Charles VI, the gentle, but mad, King of France, and Queen Isabeau, an evil, self-absorbed libertine, who cared little for her children. After the famous battle of Agincourt in which King Henry V of England vanquished France, Katherine found herself married to this warrior king and living in England. She was to become the mother of King Henry VI of England.<br />Shortly after their son's birth, King Henry V died a premature death. Young Queen Katherine saw their son Henry taken from her to be raised by others. Retiring to the countryside, she fell in love with a Welsh squire, Owen Tudor, who had faithfully served King Henry V, and now served Katherine as part of her household. Theirs was to be an illicit love, carried out in secret, as the alternative was to be the recipient of charges of treason.<br />Try as they might, no amount of secrecy could prevent the vicissitudes of life from raining down upon their happiness. Political intrigue would serve to bring their illicit love to light. It would act as the catalyst for a turning point in history. What happened to Katherine and Owen would give rise in the future to the house of Tudor, one of the greatest dynasties ever to rule England.<br />The book grounds their love story in the context of the period, which saw England as the conqueror of France. It covers that turbulent time in history that saw Joan of Arc rise from the remote French countryside to ensure the crowning of the Dauphin of France as its rightful King. It is a spellbinding account of the struggles between England and France and those who would rule these two countries. It is a book that will be enjoyed by all those with a fondness for well written, historical fiction.al fiction.	2002-08-12
1444646:US	49355567	R19QDQVTAURGRG	0709149816	750793361	The Passionate Enemies	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	KING OR QUEEN?	This, the third and final book in The Norman Trilogy, tells the story of the last days of the reign of England's King Henry I. His son, William, having died in a tragic shipwreck, and his beloved wife, Matilda, having long been dead, Henry hastily remarried a woman more than thirty years his junior in hopes of begetting a male heir and securing succession. England had no heir save Matilda, Henry's cold and imperious daughter, and Henry had concerns that his nobles would not willingly serve a woman.<br />Matilda was an Empress of Germany through her first marriage. She became Countess of Anjou through her second marriage to Geoffrey Plantagenet and would have a number of children, one of whom was named Henry. Both marriages were loveless, having been arranged for purposes of state. She had, however, a passionate attachment to her first cousin, Stephen of Blois.<br />Stephen was the youngest son of Adela, the King's favorite sister. He freely returned Matilda's passionate devotion, though he, too, was forced into an arranged marriage by his uncle, King Henry I. Though Henry was very fond of Stephen, looking upon him as if her were a favored son rather than his nephew, he was unaware of how things stood between Stephen and Matilda.  By a cruel twist of fate, Matilda and Stephen were destined never to he husband and wife, though they would become lovers.<br />The book recounts the turbulent years that were to follow the death of King Henry I. Upon his demise and despite having sworn fealty to Matilda, Stephen did the unthinkable and took possession of the English crown. It was an act that was to undo all that King Henry I had done and plunge England into a bitter civil war that would last for years. Matilda and Stephen were doomed to cross swords, as passionate in their fight for the crown as they were in their love for each other. For many years, they were to battle bitterly over the throne of England. Each would become prisoner of the other at some point in time, until Matilda, deprived of the wise counsel of her illegitimate half brother, Robert of Gloucester, due to his unexpected death, reluctantly ceased to do battle and returned to Anjou.<br />As the years passed, Stephen wished to secure the succession to the English throne and have his son, Eustace, recognized as the heir apparent. Matilda's son, Henry Plantagenet, who had since married Eleanor of Aquitaine, however, stood between Stephen and his wish. The English clergy preferred Henry, whom they recognized as the true heir, over Eustace, the son of the usurper, Stephen. When the Archbishop of Canterbury himself urged Henry to take the English Crown by force, Henry lost no time in crossing the English Channel. On the brink of battle, due to some unusual machinations on the part of Matilda, the Treaty of Wallingford was born by which Stephen recognized Henry Plantagenet as his successor to the English throne, dispossessing his son, Eustace. Thus was born the era of the Plantagenets.<br />This is a rousing and entertaining work of historical fiction. The author crafts a spellbinding tale, expertly woven with historical detail. She paints a portrait of a young man and woman who were destined by fate to forever remain star crossed lovers. What ultimately happened to them would influence the course of English history for generations to come. This is a book that is sure to grip the imagination of all those who love historical fiction.l Matilda, deprived of the wise counsel of her illegitimate half brother, Robert of Gloucester, due to his unexpected death, reluctantly ceased to do battle and returned to Anjou.<br />As the years passed, Stephen wished to secure the succession to the English throne and have his son, Eustace, recognized as the heir apparent. Matilda's son, Henry Plantagenet, who had since married Eleanor of Aquitaine, however, stood between Stephen and his wish. The English clergy preferred Henry, whom they recognized as the true heir, over Eustace, the son of the usurper, Stephen. When the Archbishop of Canterbury himself urged Henry to take the English Crown by force, Henry lost no time in crossing the English Channel. On the brink of battle, due to some unusual machinations on the part of Matilda, the Treaty of Wallingford was born by which Stephen recognized Henry Plantagenet as his successor to the English throne, dispossessing his son, Eustace. Thus was born the era of the Plantagenets.<br />This is a rousing and entertaining work of historical fiction. The author crafts a spellbinding tale, expertly woven with historical detail. She paints a portrait of a young man and woman who were destined by fate to forever remain star crossed lovers. What ultimately happened to them would influence the course of English history for generations to come. This is a book that is sure to grip the imagination of all those who love historical fiction.	2002-08-11
1446559:US	49355567	R25Z4NJKI10VU3	0140213082	571312355	The Other America ~ Poverty in the United States	Books	4	38	42	N	N	THE POOR ARE WITH YOU ALWAYS...	This is the seminal work on the poor in America, analyzed within the context of government proffered, anti-poverty programs. It is a scathing critique and analysis of the war on poverty, where bold rhetoric and political grandstanding have often supplanted  action. The author in his analysis categorizes poverty as a cultural and often institutional way of life that would require radical innovations, social planning, and long term financial investment, were the government really serious about eradicating poverty in America. What is amazing is that the arguments made by the author, when he wrote this book forty years ago, are still sound today.	2002-08-09
1446615:US	49355567	R2DPCA1OP1RD3H	0140001409	651296590	Cold Comfort Farm (Popular Penguins)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	QUIRKY, BRILLIANT, AND HILARIOUS PARODY...	Published in 1932, this novel is a hysterically funny, tongue in cheek parody of the heavy handed, gloomy novels of some early twentieth century English writers who had previously been so popular. Tremendously successful when first published, &quot;Cold Comfort Farm&quot; caused quite a stir in its time.<br />The novel starts out innocuosly enough, when well educated Flora Poste finds herself orphaned at the age of twenty. Discovering that her father was not the wealthy man she believed him to be, she is resigned to the fate of having to live on a hundred pounds a year. Opting to live with relatives, rather than earn her bread, she seeks out a most unlikely set of relations, the odd Starkadder family who live in Howling, Sussex.<br />Therein begins what is certainly one of the funniest novels ever written. When Flora arrives in Howling, she meets her odd relatives, who live in neglected, ramshackle &quot;Cold Comfort Farm&quot;, where they still wash the dishes with twigs, and have cows named Graceless, Pointless, Feckless, and Aimless. Headed by a seventy nine year old matriarch, Flora's aunt, Ada Doom Starkadder, who has not been right in the head since she &quot;saw something nasty happen in the woodshed&quot; nearly seventy years ago, they are a motley and strange crew indeed. Confronted with their dismal and gloomy existence, Flora sets about trying to put things to right.<br />Peppered with eccentric, memorable characters, this book will take the reader on a journey not easily forgotten. It is one that is sure to make the reader revisit this novel yet again, like an old friend who is missed too soon.	2002-08-09
1446852:US	49355567	RIH95QVC9W3TL	9997414055	479060048	The Captive Queen of Scots	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	MARY STUART...THE CAPTIVE QUEEN OF SCOTS...	This is historical fiction at its finest. Masterfully written, the author weaves a spellbinding tapestry of events that chronicles the life of Mary Stuart, the Queen of Scots, while in captivity.<br /><br />The book details her stay at the castle on the island of Lochleven in Scotland, while at the mercy of her illegitimate half brother and self-proclaimed Regent, the Earl of Moray. It recounts her daring escape from her Scottish captors, as well as her woefully misguided decision to flee to England, rather than to France or Spain.<br /><br />Instead of the succor that the beautiful, charming, and very Catholic Mary, an anointed Queen, expected to receive from her cousin, the wily and Protestant Elizabeth I of England, Mary found, instead, an uneasy captivity. From the moment of her entry to England, she was in effect a prisoner, commuted from castle to castle with a never ending succession of jailers whose task was to ensure that she did not escape. It was a captivitry that was to span nineteen years.<br /><br />Filled with the political intrigues and conspiracies that abounded in sixteenth century England and Scotland, the book paints a sympathetic portrait of Mary, a queen that ruled with her heart, rather than with her head. She was a woman who was at a disadvantage in negotiating with her cousin, as Elizabeth, unlike Mary, ruled with her head and not with her heart. Elizabeth was very much aware of the political realities of the time and sensitive to Mary's own claim by blood to the English throne, making Mary someone to be kept in check, rather than helped.<br /><br />Based upon actual historical figures and events, the author creates three dimensional characters and infuses them with all the pomp and pageantry of the time. It is a stirringly written narrative that fully engages the reader. Those who love historical fiction, as well as those who have an interest in the life of Mary Stuart, the beleaguered Queen of Scots, will most certainly enjoy this book, as will anyone who simply loves a well written and compelling storywill anyone who simply loves a well written and compelling story	2002-08-09
1447033:US	49355567	R1QX0C9JFV0W2B	0582253985	772203017	Heat and Dust (NEW LONGMAN LITERATURE 14-18)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	THE HEAT OF THE ROMANCE...THE DUST OF ITS ASHES...	This is a well-written book that explores Anglo-Indian relations through the power of romance. Set in two distinct eras, colonial India of the nineteen twenties, during the time of the Raj, and the independent, freewheeling India of the seventies, during the time when India was a mecca for disenfranchised youth, it tells the story of two women.<br /><br />One story is that of Olivia, the wife of a minor district official in colonial India, who in 1923 caused great scandal by running off with the Nawab, a local Indian prince. Divorced by her husband, Douglas, for this scandalous transgression, Olivia remains in India, while Douglas remarries. The second story is that of the narrator, a descendant of Douglas and his second wife. During the nineteen seventies, fascinated by the story of the now deceased Olivia, she goes to India, visiting those locations where Olivia had lived and those that would have been a part of her existence at the time. As did Olivia, she falls under India's spell. As did Olivia, she, too, has an Anglo-Indian love affair, and picks up where Olivia left off, giving the reader a powerful sense of de-ja vu.<br /><br />The book is a beguiling story of two women from two different generations who come under the spell of India. The book is evocative of British colonial India, as well as of India of the nineteen seventies. During both eras, Anglo-Indian relations are pivotal to the budding romances. The book is evocative of the rhythms of Indian life in all its richness and tumultuousness, as well as its lingering poverty and superstitions. It is redolent of a time gone by and hopeful of what is to come. It is also an interesting dichotomy of the good and bad in both cultures, Anglo and Indian, and the influence that both cultures have on these two women, who are so different, yet so alike.<br /><br />This is a book that whets the appetite, leaving the reader wanting more than the author is prepared to give. It is, nonetheless, a book well worth reading. The book was also made into a Merchant Ivory film starring Julie Christie and Greta Scacchi that is well worth watching.g. The book was also made into a Merchant Ivory film starring Julie Christie and Greta Scacchi that is well worth watching.	2002-08-09
1452500:US	49355567	R1BYIN3RTTVA9P	0312951426	621198908	The Ice House: A Novel	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	A MOST AUSPICIOUS DEBUT NOVEL...	Winner of Britain's John Creasey Award for Best First Crime Novel, this splendid debut novel by the author is a tough act to follow. She weaves a marvelous mystery surrounding three women who live together in an English Country manor house, one of whom, Phoebe Maybury, is suspected of having murdered her bounder of a husband ten years ago. More recently, a corpse in found in an old icehouse on their property and rumors begin flying fast and furious about these three women.<br />Ostracized by the community in which they live, these three women become larger than life in the minds of the local townfolk. The  charming and artistic Diana Goode and the earthy, no nonsense Anne Catrell hunker about their housemate, Phoebe, as the events of the past threaten to crop up again and overwhelm her.<br />The police, led by Chief Inspector Walsh, a man with his own underlying agenda, seems intent upon putting the screws to these three women, fixating upon Phoebe Maybury. Only Sergeant Detective McLoughlin seems to be genuinely interested in discovering the truth. In order to do so, however, he must confront his own personal demons, as he finds himself drawn into a snare of deceit, good intentions gone awry, loyalty, and a secret that threatens to ruin the lives of three women.<br />The author cleverly uses the discovery of the corpse as a catalyst for a voyage of self discovery for some of her characters. Brimming with a cornucopeia of subplots and one or two red herrings, the author grips the reader with a literate and compelling narrative. She is a welcome addition to the ever growing list of British mystery novelists. This author's work should appeal to those who enjoy mysteries written by Ruth Rendell.	2002-08-04
1452961:US	49355567	R115U3ES717OG7	9993300691	983256815	Outlander	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	AN ABSOLUTELY RIVETING STORY!!!!!!	A lover of historical fiction, adventure books, and books with a time travel theme, I hesitated buying this book, despite the very intriguing sounding plot, because it was labeled as being a romance novel. Still, curiosity won the day, and am I ever glad that it did! This has got to be one of the most engrossing and highly entertaining novels that I have ever read. Surprisingly well written, I was hooked almost immediately.<br />The novel begins in the year 1945, and the plot revolves around the adventures of Claire Randall, an Englishwoman and combat nurse during World War II, who is reunited with her husband, Frank, after the war. While on a second honeymoon in Scotland, she visits a strange, flat topped hill in the highlands of Scotland, where a forbidding stone circle draws her. Touching one of the stones, she is hurled through a vortex in time and finds herself in eighteenth century Scotland.<br />There, she meets James Fraser, a brave and brawny Scotsman, and finds herself thrust into the midst of clan warfare and intrigue. Finding in Jamie a soulmate, she falls passionately in love, but is conflicted because of the feelings she harbors for the husband she left behind. She goes on, however, to have enough adventures to last a lifetime. What happens to these star crossed lovers in eighteenth century Scotland is riveting.<br />The author is a master storyteller and her use of historical detail is superlative. Those who love well written, historical fiction will be delighted. The book tells a rip roaring good story and is a veritable page turner. This is the first in a now published series of five books. Having read each and every one, all I can say is... Bravo! I love each and every one of them!	2002-08-04
1452982:US	49355567	R1EDZ2PE6SQ72M	055371287X	521680638	Over the Edge: The True Story of Four American Climbers' Kidnap and Escape in the Mountains of Central Asia	Books	3	8	12	N	N	MORE IS SOMETIMES LESS...	This is the true story of four young Americans, three men and one woman, who in August of 2000 ventured into Kyrgyzstan in order to rock climb in the Pamir-Alai mountain range. On August 11, 2000, while climbing, they would suddenly find themselves the target of sniper fire. After their descent, they would find themselves taken at gunpoint and held hostage by young Islamic fundamentalists of the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan. They would join a Kyrgyz soldier whom the militants had already taken prisoner.<br />The next six days would prove to be harrowing ones for these climbers, who would be marched thrugh the rugged terrain of the mountains with little food and water and constant threat of execution at the hands of their heavily armed captors. They would eventually see the their fellow captive, the Kyrgyz soldier with whom they had bonded, executed. With nothing to lose, they would be forced to make a life or death decision that was to cause them much angst but would allow for an escape.<br />This audio book is well narrated by Armand Schultz who does an excellent job of infusing with atmosphere the author's somewhat dry chronicle of these startling pre-9/11 events that, looking back in hindsight, now seem to have a much more evil and sinister portent. The story is multifaceted in that it grounds what happened to these climbers in a  global context, giving the historical backdrop and political dynamics of the area.<br />The author fully lays out the media circus that enveloped the climbers upon their return to the United States. He also found himself becoming part of the story, as exclusivity and certain monetary arrangements he had made with the climbers threatened to dominate the story and cast a pall over the veracity of all. The author also lays out the secret pact that the climbers had made over the agonizing decision one of them had reached in order to effect their escape. It was a decision that they believed had led to the death of the captor who had been entrusted with keeping them captive.<br />The media circus around what had happened to them turned decidedly ugly when it was discovered that this captor was still alive and under arrest. What he had to say would then throw the media into a further tailspin. Thanks to the power of television, however, a Dateline NBC interview with the captor at the heart of the storm of the controversy would finally put to rest some of the unsavory portions of this true life adventure.<br />What really stands out is the naivete and ignorance of the climbers about the part of the world in which they were traveling. Notwithstanding the fact that none of them seemed to be particularly bright, they had done very little in terms of research into the area before traveling there  nor had they heeded State Department advisories about the area. The climbers, in large part, remain somewhat of an enigma and, as such, the reader finds oneself caring very little about them.<br />This news saga originally appeared as a gripping article in \\"Outside\\" magazine. I had the good fortune to have read it and was transfixed by what had happened. I do not recall who wrote the article, though it was most likely Greg Child. In writing this book, however, he seems to have sucked the life out of the story. While still worth reading, it is an adventure story uitterly devoid of passion.ntrusted with keeping them captive.<br />The media circus around what had happened to them turned decidedly ugly when it was discovered that this captor was still alive and under arrest. What he had to say would then throw the media into a further tailspin. Thanks to the power of television, however, a Dateline NBC interview with the captor at the heart of the storm of the controversy would finally put to rest some of the unsavory portions of this true life adventure.<br />What really stands out is the naivete and ignorance of the climbers about the part of the world in which they were traveling. Notwithstanding the fact that none of them seemed to be particularly bright, they had done very little in terms of research into the area before traveling there  nor had they heeded State Department advisories about the area. The climbers, in large part, remain somewhat of an enigma and, as such, the reader finds oneself caring very little about them.<br />This news saga originally appeared as a gripping article in \\"Outside\\" magazine. I had the good fortune to have read it and was transfixed by what had happened. I do not recall who wrote the article, though it was most likely Greg Child. In writing this book, however, he seems to have sucked the life out of the story. While still worth reading, it is an adventure story uitterly devoid of passion.	2002-08-04
1461382:US	49355567	R2MI56C9Z1KJ8R	1570428603	95144783	Cradle and All	Books	3	3	4	N	N	DOWN WILL COME  BABY...	This is an audio cassette of a bad book that is unexpectedly brought to life by the talents of its superlative narrator, Barbara Caruso, who is simply sensational. She breathes life into what would otherwise be a mediocre piece of apocalyptic drivel and makes it moderately enjoyable for the listener who is, undoubtedly, driving along a long stretch of highway while playing this audio book.<br />The story line is fairly simple. There are two young girls, both pregnant and both claiming to be virgins. One, Kathleen, rich and privileged, lives in the United States. The other, Colleen, lives in a small country village in Ireland. According to a secret missive from Our Lady of Fatima, one virgin will give birth to Satan's child, the Anti-Christ, while the other will give birth to the child of God, a new Messiah.<br />Meanwhile, all over the world apocalyptic manifestations are sprouting up. Pestilence, drought, famine, and and other evil portents seem to dominate the global landscape. Something strange is going on, and it appears as if the forces of good and evil are gathering about, girding themselves for one final battle.<br />Father Rosetti, an emissary from the vatican, has been entrusted with a secret mission by the Pope relative to these two young virgins, and it is one that will sorely try his faith. Meanwhile, former nun turned private investigator, Anne Fitzgerald, has been retained by the Archdiocese of Boston to look into the phenomena of a possible immaculate conception with regards to these two young women who inhabit disparate worlds. Anne must not only confront the unknown in order to assist these two young women, she must also confront her own powerful emotions and a destiny she could not have imagined.<br />Written in 1980 and originally released under another title, this book has resurfaced and been updated by the author to make it appear as it were a more contemporary work. The book is riddled with ridiculous cliches from the horror genre and lacks any real tension. It has been released to capitalize on the author's success with his Alex Cross series of thrillers. Unfortunately, it is not cut from the same bolt of cloth and lacks the quality of both writing and plot that earmarks his Alex Cross novels.<br />This is a book that rates about one star in terms of content, but given the fact that the narrator, Barbara Caruso, has given it a five star reading, I am grudgingly awarding it three stars. The book has its moments, however brief and fleeting they may be, and Barbara Caruso, a virtuoso reader gamely tries to make more of less. At times, she succeeds.real tension. It has been released to capitalize on the author's success with his Alex Cross series of thrillers. Unfortunately, it is not cut from the same bolt of cloth and lacks the quality of both writing and plot that earmarks his Alex Cross novels.<br />This is a book that rates about one star in terms of content, but given the fact that the narrator, Barbara Caruso, has given it a five star reading, I am grudgingly awarding it three stars. The book has its moments, however brief and fleeting they may be, and Barbara Caruso, a virtuoso reader gamely tries to make more of less. At times, she succeeds.	2002-07-27
1469410:US	49355567	R3GC9BWPO9KNWR	0399123229	722781837	The Bastard King (Norman Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	29	29	N	Y	THE DUKE WHO WOULD BE KING...	This is the first book in the Norman Trilogy series written by the author and a very good work of historical fiction. It chronicles the  the life of William the Conqueror, the bastard son of the Duke of Normandy. Born to the daughter of a tanner, his illegitimacy was to be a sore spot and bone of contention for many years. Designated by his father to succeed him as the Duke of Normandy, the circumstances of his birth would cause him to have to fight usurpers within his duchy in order to retain his title.<br />After a somewhat unusual courtship, William married Matilda, the fiercely independent and beautiful daughter of the King of Flanders. Together, they had a number of children who were to cause him much anger and much sorrow. One of them would eventually bring about a fissure in his relationship with his beloved Matilda.<br /><br />William, always ambitious, coveted the throne of England and was supported in his desire to be king by his intelligent and equally ambitious wife Matilda. In 1066, after the death of the King of England, Edward the Confessor, with whom he had had a longstanding friendship, William crossed the channel from Normandy to England. He wrested the English crown from King Harold, Edward's popular Saxon successor. In doing so, he forever changed the course of England and its history.<br />Vividly written and well researched, the author weaves a spellbinding tale of the Duke who would be King. A tapestry of exciting historical events makes this an enthralling tale that will capture the imagination of the reader. Lovers of historical fiction will especially enjoy this interesting and well written book.	2002-07-19
1490832:US	49355567	R1NLHLNEMJNUWL	0970305303	153461031	Change of Heart	Books	4	0	0	N	N	THIS SHOULD BE A MOVIE...	This is a well paced, action thriller that has movie written all over it. Action packed, fast paced, it would make a terrific film. The book is a wholly plot driven novel. While it falls somewhat short in terms of characterization, its fast pace and intricate plot keep the reader turning the pages.<br />The hero of this book is Joshua McGowan, a handsome, young Naval Intelligence Officer with the Special Forces Unit, who has just been given a new mission. A top notch field operative, he is just the man for this job. He must rescue a young, Russian woman, Valeria Konstantinova, an elite member of the KGB, who has been imprisoned in Russia.<br />The United States is anxious to secure her person, as she is presumed to have information of the whereabouts of Dr. Otto Jones, an American explosives expert who is in the process of devising an explosive that would be undetectable by most current security systems. Dr. Jones has turned traitor and is actively working for Colonel Miranov of the KGB on behalf of the Communist Party.<br />Colonel Mironov, a sinister, double dealing, KGB capo, has engineered this entire mission, as a part of a plan to restore the Communist Party to its former glory in Moscow, and as a way of potentially getting rid of McGowan, his long time nemesis. What neither Mironov nor McGowan reckon with is that Valeria may have her own agenda.<br />The action takes the reader from the United States to Japan, the Middle East, and Russia with many life or death, action packed, page turning sequences. Mironov will stop at nothing to derail the democratic process in Russia and start the Cold War anew. The only question is whether McGowan will be able to accomplish his mission, stop Miranov and, at the same time, stay alive.<br />This really would make an excellent film. I see Josh Harnett or even Ben Affleck in the role of Joshua McGowan. Kathy Bates would be perfect in the role of Rear Admiral Katherine Fillmore, one of McGowan's bosses on this mission. Angelina Jolie would make a perfectly beautiful Valeria, while Arnold Schwartzenegger would be terrific in the role of the evil Colonel Miranov.<br />Fans of Tom Clancy and Ian Fleming should enjoy this book, as should all those who enjoy a good, old-fashioned, action thriller. This is a solid, debut novel.na Jolie would make a perfectly beautiful Valeria, while Arnold Schwartzenegger would be terrific in the role of the evil Colonel Miranov.<br />Fans of Tom Clancy and Ian Fleming should enjoy this book, as should all those who enjoy a good, old-fashioned, action thriller. This is a solid, debut novel.	2002-07-01
1494341:US	49355567	RJ70SUE49KEM6	0140176616	53389389	Asta's Book	Books	5	28	30	N	N	WHODUNIT?...	This is a beautifully written, well nuanced novel of mystery and suspense that seamlessly moves between the past and the present. The past is told through the diaries of a Danish immigrant named Asta, who went to live in Edwardian England with her husband, Rasmus, and two young sons at the turn of the century. Settling down in East London in 1905, her loveless marriage and loneliness drove Asta to keep a journal of her innermost thoughts and experiences.<br />Though married to a man who spent a great deal of time away from home on business and with whom she seemed to have little in common, Asta added two more children to her family, daughters, Swanny, her favorite, and Maria, the youngest. Asta's lyrically written journals would chronicle of her life, her struggles as an immigrant, her hopes and dreams, and her adoration of Swanny. They would also tantalizingly hint at a secret that would, ultimately, impact on her daughter, Swanny, later in life.<br />Over seventy years later, those diaries, all forty nine of them, would be discovered and become a publishing sensation and a bestseller. Within its many pages would lie the missing pieces to a turn of the century murder mystery and the leads to the whereabouts of a missing child, as well as tantalizing clues to the puzzling circumstances surrounding Swanny's birth. This information would lie dormant until nearly a century after Asta first put pen to paper, when Asta's granddaughter, Maria's daughter Ann, would review the diaries and discover not only the secret of Swanny's birth, but the identity of a missing child, as well as that of a killer, who nearly a century earlier had butchered two women.<br />This is a book well worth reading, and one that will command the readers attention until the very last page is turned.	2002-06-28
1494884:US	49355567	R21OZ2EKC8VOIM	0312953615	342638275	The Sculptress: A Novel	Books	4	19	19	N	Y	TRUE BEAUTY COMES WRAPPED IN DIFFERENT PACKAGES...	This is an intriguing, well written mystery which garnered the 1994 Edgar Award for best novel of the year for British writer, Minette Walters, who has written quite a number of excellent books. She is a writer in the tradition of that other great British novelist, Ruth Rendell, known also as Barbara Vine. The comparison by those who are familiar with the works of both Ms. Walters and Ms. Rendell is inescapable.<br />This book revolves around two main stories that become by necessity intertwined. One is that of a morbidly obese, young woman, Olive Martin, who is imprisoned for the brutal and grisly murders of her mother, Gwen, and beautiful, younger sister, Amber, whose butchered bodies shocked even the most jaded of folks. On the eve of trial, Olive made a full confession to the crime and received a prison sentence of not less than twenty-five years for her butchery. Known in prison as \\"The Sculptress\\", she passes the time making miniature, carved, wax images, a delicate and sensitive pastime for one with a reputation for such primal savagery.<br />Enter Rosalind \\"Roz\\" Leigh, a thirties something author suffering from writer's block, who accepts a commission to write about the Olive Martin case. After meeting Olive, she becomes intrigued by her, finding her to be other than what she had expected, and a symbiotic relationship develops between the two. As she delves into the facts of the murder case, and as her interviews with Olive reveal, all is not quite what it seems. The more that Roz sorts through the facts and the more people that she interviews who were in some way associated with the Martin family, the more she becomes convinced that a miscarriage of justice has occurred and that the wrong person is paying a horrific price for the grisly murders of Gwen and Amber.<br />Someone, however, does not wish her to dig too deeply. With the aid of a former police sergeant, Hal Hawksley, an attractive, though conflicted, young man who is now her new love interest and was also the officer who arrested Olive for the murders, Roz stays the course and perserveres in her inquiry. What she discovers is a complex morass of human indifference, greed, and passion that makes for a compelling and well crafted mystery.was also the officer who arrested Olive for the murders, Roz stays the course and perserveres in her inquiry. What she discovers is a complex morass of human indifference, greed, and passion that makes for a compelling and well crafted mystery.	2002-06-28
1501590:US	49355567	R2KJ6IF79XMA0G	0449232875	479060048	Captive Queen of Scots	Books	5	17	18	N	Y	MARY STUART...THE CAPTIVE QUEEN...	This is historical fiction at its finest. Masterfully written, the author weaves a spellbinding tapestry of events that chronicles the life of Mary Stuart, the Queen of Scots, while in captivity.<br /><br />The book details her stay at the castle on the island of Lochleven in Scotland, while at the mercy of her illegitimate half brother and self-proclaimed Regent, the Earl of Moray. It recounts her daring escape from her Scottish captors, as well as her woefully misguided decision to flee to England, rather than to France or Spain.<br /><br />Instead of the succor that the beautiful, charming, and very Catholic Mary, an anointed Queen, expected to receive from her cousin, the wily and Protestant Elizabeth I of England, Mary found, instead, an uneasy captivity. From the moment of her entry to England, she was in effect a prisoner, commuted from castle to castle with a never ending succession of jailers whose task was to ensure that she did not escape. It was a captivitry that was to span nineteen years.<br /><br />Filled with the political intrigues and conspiracies that abounded in sixteenth century England and Scotland, the book paints a sympathetic portrait of Mary, a queen that ruled with her heart, rather than with her head. She was a woman who was at a disadvantage in negotiating with her cousin, as Elizabeth, unlike Mary, ruled with her head and not with her heart. Elizabeth was very much aware of the political realities of the time and sensitive to Mary's own claim by blood to the English throne, making Mary someone to be kept in check, rather than helped.<br /><br />Based upon actual historical figures and events, the author creates three dimensional characters and infuses them with all the pomp and pageantry of the time. It is a stirringly written narrative that fully engages the reader. Those who love historical fiction, as well as those who have an interest in the life of Mary Stuart, the beleaguered Queen of Scots, will most certainly enjoy this book, as will anyone who simply loves a well written and compelling story.will anyone who simply loves a well written and compelling story.	2002-06-22
1501712:US	49355567	RYSDIIZM3BLB6	0767740963	359445212	Vanity Fair (World Classics (Abe Books))	Books	3	11	11	N	N	THE WOMAN EVERYONE LOVES TO HATE...	This 1967 BBC screen adaptation of William Makepeace Thackeray's nineteenth century novel of the same name is a period piece that features Susan Hampshire's Emmy Award winning performance. In the role of Becky Sharp, Ms. Hampshire shines and is the linchpin around which this production revolves. Set in nineteenth century England, it tells the story of Becky Sharpe, a grasping and resourceful beauty, who is determined to avoid the fate destined for women like her, educated but bereft of family and fortune. While Becky Sharpe is a character that everyone loves to hate, Susan Hampshire manages to infuse her with a certain charm that is not lost upon the viewer.<br />Becky contrives to scheme and plot her way into society, grasping and avaricious in her desire to climb the social ladder, letting nothing or anyone get in her way. When, while visiting her best friend, the well to do Amelia Sedley, Becky's plan to snare her best friend's socially inept, older brother fails, foiled by Amelia's snobbish fiance, George Osborne, Becky takes her failure in stride. Later, while working as a governess in the household of the lecherous Sir Pitt, she, instead, manages to marry Sir Pitt's handsome and dashing son, Rawdon.<br />Her own star on the ascendant, Becky does not let friendhip get in the way of appeasing her own, ever preening vanity. The naive Amelia, whose own star is on the wane, her family having lost their fortune, is now married to the rakish George Osborne. Becky does not trouble herself one wit on her friend's behalf and does not hesitate to flirt outrageously with her George, much to Amelia's dismay. Becky does not care, as long as it is she who is the belle of the ball. Becky travels the capital cities of Europe with her husband, Rawdon, living a lavish lifestyle, while playing a dangerous game of love with her many admirers, a denizen of playboys, rakes, and titled nobility. Still, all good things must end, and Becky ultimately finds herself worse off than when she started, having lost everything, including her husband and good name.<br />After many years, Becky ultimately comes face to face with her old friend, Amelia, whom she had treated so badly, but who, nonetheless, wishes to help her, now that Becky is down on her luck. Seeing that Amelia, however, is living a lie, having deified her now dead husband to the exclusion of her true admirer and secret benefactor, the long suffering Lt. Dobbin, Becky finds salvation in putting to right something that Amelia has had before her very eyes all along, but has missed seeing. Becky restores to Amelia the only chance she has left at finding happiness and, in doing that, finds redemption.<br />This 1967 production boasts a vary good cast, as well as lush costumes. It suffers, however, from some of the production values that were par for the course in those days. Harsh lighting, which, at times, leeches the color from the sets, is rampant throughout the production. There is also an ocassional transition from film to video that is jarring to the eye. Notwithstanding this, it is still an enjoyable period piece and a very good adaptation of Thackeray's famous novel, though it pales in comparison to more lavish, recent productions.he started, having lost everything, including her husband and good name.<br />After many years, Becky ultimately comes face to face with her old friend, Amelia, whom she had treated so badly, but who, nonetheless, wishes to help her, now that Becky is down on her luck. Seeing that Amelia, however, is living a lie, having deified her now dead husband to the exclusion of her true admirer and secret benefactor, the long suffering Lt. Dobbin, Becky finds salvation in putting to right something that Amelia has had before her very eyes all along, but has missed seeing. Becky restores to Amelia the only chance she has left at finding happiness and, in doing that, finds redemption.<br />This 1967 production boasts a vary good cast, as well as lush costumes. It suffers, however, from some of the production values that were par for the course in those days. Harsh lighting, which, at times, leeches the color from the sets, is rampant throughout the production. There is also an ocassional transition from film to video that is jarring to the eye. Notwithstanding this, it is still an enjoyable period piece and a very good adaptation of Thackeray's famous novel, though it pales in comparison to more lavish, recent productions.	2002-06-22
1515729:US	49355567	R1GIM0DY9NOPGR	0399107118	776696576	Royal Road to Fotheringay: A Novel of Mary, Queen of Scots	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A QUEEN WHO RULED WITH HER HEART AND LOST HER HEAD...	This is a wonderful, captivating work of historical fiction. Weaving a spellbinding tale out of a tapestry of actual events, the author, Victoria Holt, writing under one of several pen names that she used, recounts the tragic and dramatic tale of Mary Stuart, Queen of Scots.<br />Born in Scotland, Mary, whose father, the King of Scotland, died when she was very young, was an only child. Her father's death left her mother, Marie De Guise of France, to rule as Regent in Scotland for her daughter. A wily woman, Marie saw danger to her daughter, if she remained in Scotland. So, she had Mary betrothed to Francois, the Dauphin of France, and sent her at a very young age to live in the French Court.<br />A happy, pleasing, and bonnie child, she matured into a beautiful young woman and eventually married the Dauphin. After the unexpected death of the King, she and Francois went on to reign as King and Queen of France. Alas, her happness was short lived, as Francois was sickly and in poor health. After his premature death, there was no place for Mary in the court of her brother-in-law, Charles, the succeeding French King, thanks to the machinations of her evil mother-in-law, Catherine D'Medici.<br />Mary then did the only thing left to do. She set sail for Scotland under the protection of border lord, James Hepburn, the Earl of Bothwell, to reclaim her kingdom as its anointed Queen. Her mother, Marie De Guise, now dead, the Catholic Mary was faced with reclaiming a Protestant kingdom that she had not seen for many years, a kingdom over which her half brother, the illegitimate and Protestant James, meant to rule himself, irrespective of his bastardy.<br />Little did Mary know of the travails that would await her. A quarrelsome group of lords and nobles, whose perfidy, deceit, and ruthless jockeying for power knew no bounds, would plague her brief reign. They would plot against her with her Protestant cousin in England, Elizabeth I, a Queen who ruled with her head and not with her heart. Mary's half brother, James, whose naked ambition was to wear the crown himself, was determined that Mary would be Queen in name only. He would stop at nothing to secure that which he felt was his by right, if not by birth. John Knox, a fire and brimstone religious fanatic, who held Scotland in his thrall, denounced the Catholic Mary at every opportunity, proclaiming her a wanton and rebuffing her overtures and requests for religious tolerance. This is what awaited Mary in Scotland, a harsh and most inhospitable land.<br />This woman, who would be Queen, eventually decided to marry again and made the greatest mistake of all in electing to marry the young and dissolute Lord Henry Darnley, an English Catholic. Though royal by birth, he would eventually bring nothing but shame upon her, plotting against her and those loyal to her. Darnley was the catalyst for some of the greatest scandals in the history of Scotland. Notwithstanding Darnley's perfidy, Mary did her duty and, having been delivered of an infant son fathered by Darnley, provided Scotland with an heir to the throne. She eventually became nothing more than a pawn in the ambitions of men, pitting Mary's half brother, James, now the Earl of Moray, against James, the Earl of Bothwell, one of Darnley's alleged murderers and Mary's seducer. It would be a fight to the finish.<br />With Darnley having died under mysterious circumstances and her passions now aroused, Mary married the Earl of Bothwell, much to the outrage of all of Scotland, and together incurred the emnity of many of the lords and nobles. This would lead to Bothwell's exile and captivity in Denmark, while Mary would flee to England, hoping to meet with Elizabeth and obtain her help in securing her kingdom. Instead, she would remain her cousin Elizabeth's captive for twenty years, being moved from castle to castle, as Mary's Catholic supporters plotted over the years to restore her kingdom to her.<br />Finally, these plots included the throne of England, and Elizabeth could no longer close her eyes to the threat that her still living cousin, Mary, an anointed Catholic Queen with a claim to the throne of Protestant England, presented. For her alleged treason, Mary would be tried, and the castle at Fotheringay would be the end of the line for her in the land in which twenty years earlier she had unwisely sought succor.<br />This is a spellbinding story, told with an infusion of historical detail. Those interested in the story of Mary, Queen of Scots, will, undoubtedly, enjoy this work of historical fiction. It is a fascinating tale of a historical figure whose life remains an intriguing enigma even today.ne of England, and Elizabeth could no longer close her eyes to the threat that her still living cousin, Mary, an anointed Catholic Queen with a claim to the throne of Protestant England, presented. For her alleged treason, Mary would be tried, and the castle at Fotheringay would be the end of the line for her in the land in which twenty years earlier she had unwisely sought succor.<br />This is a spellbinding story, told with an infusion of historical detail. Those interested in the story of Mary, Queen of Scots, will, undoubtedly, enjoy this work of historical fiction. It is a fascinating tale of a historical figure whose life remains an intriguing enigma even today.	2002-06-08
1515746:US	49355567	R2AB72OT9FA490	0898868505	94945383	Ghosts of Everest: The Search for Mallory and Irvine	Books	4	17	17	N	N	DID THEY OR DIDN'T THEY?...	This is a beautifully and lavishly illustrated, textually rich book. Its pages demand the reader's undivided attention and are sure to enthrall all mystery lovers, Everest aficionados, nostalgia junkies, history buffs, and climbing enthusiasts. This book is sure to provide the reader with many hours of enjoyment.<br /><br />The book chronicles the search for George Mallory and Andrew Irvine by the 1999 Mallory & Irvine Research Expedition. It juxtaposes the dramatic turn of events during their expedition with those of the 1924 British Everest Expedition which saw Mallory and Irvine attempt a summit climb, only to disappear into the mists of Everest, never to be seen again. It makes for a spell binding narrative, as past events are woven through present day ones.<br /><br />The 1999 Mallory & Irvine Research Expedition was a meticulously well prepared and well organized venture. With its discovery of George Leigh Mallory's body, it enjoyed much success. The research and analysis that went into its ultimate, well thought out conclusions were comprehensive and fascinating, with its strong reliance upon forensics and deductive reasoning. Their reconstruction of Mallory's and Irvine's last climb is riveting. Unfortunately, the ultimate question still remains unanswered. Did they or did they not reach the summit of Mount Everest back in 1924?<br /><br />The beautiful photographs of the personal effects found upon Mallory's person underscore a certain poignancy about the discovery of Mallory's well preserved body. The photographs which memorialize this discovery are amazingly lovely and tasteful, considering its subject matter, and hauntingly illustrate the finality with which Everest may deal with mountaineers, no matter how accomplished.<br /><br />The photographs also highlight how ill equipped for the harsh climatic conditions were the early Everest expeditions. It is amazing, and a credit to those early expeditioners' courage and fortitude, in braving such an inhospitable and harsh terrain with the inadequate clothing and equipment available to them at the time. Mallory and Irvine were certainly intrepid explorers!<br /><br />This book is a fitting tribute to two men who sought to make a historic summit and, in their attempt, would forever be a part of Everest.able and harsh terrain with the inadequate clothing and equipment available to them at the time. Mallory and Irvine were certainly intrepid explorers!<br /><br />This book is a fitting tribute to two men who sought to make a historic summit and, in their attempt, would forever be a part of Everest.	2002-06-08
1515785:US	49355567	R2LJL8BPFMWXFQ	0060804319	772203017	Heat and Dust	Books	4	1	1	N	N	THE HEAT OF THE ROMANCE...THE DUST OF ITS ASHES...	This is a well written book that explores Anglo-Indian relations through the power of romance. Set in two distinct eras, colonial India of the nineteen twenties, during the time of the Raj, and the independent, freewheeling India of the seventies, during the time when India was a mecca for disenfranchised youth, it tells the story of two women.<br />One story is that of Olivia, the wife of a minor district official in colonial India, who in 1923 caused great scandal by running off with the Nawab, a local Indian prince. Divorced by her husband, Douglas, for this scandalous transgression, Olivia remains in India, while Douglas remarries. The second story is that of the narrator, a descendant of Douglas and his second wife. During the nineteen seventies, fascinated by the story of the now deceased Olivia, she goes to India, visiting those locations where Olivia had lived and those which would have been a part of her existence at the time. As did Olivia, she falls under India's spell. As did Olivia, she, too, has an Anglo-Indian love affair and picks up where Olivia left off, giving the reader a powerful sense of de-ja vu.<br />The book is a beguiling story of two women from two different generations who come under the spell of India. The book is evocative of British colonial India, as well as of India of the nineteen seventies. During both eras, Anglo-Indian relations are pivotal to the budding romances. The book is evocative of the rythyms of Indian life in all its richness and tumultuousness, as well as its lingering poverty and superstitions. It is redolent of a time gone by and hopeful of what is to come. It is also an interesting dichotomy of the good and bad in both cultures, Anglo and Indian, and the influence that both cultures have on these two women, who are so different, yet so alike.<br />This is a book that whets the appetite, leaving the reader wanting more than the author is prepared to give. It is, nonetheless, a book well worth reading. The book was also made into a Merchant Ivory film starring Julie Christie and Greta Scacchi.so made into a Merchant Ivory film starring Julie Christie and Greta Scacchi.	2002-06-08
1515865:US	49355567	R25PLD65MBA2K3	0091620600	567968516	Summit Fever	Books	3	2	3	N	N	AN ARMCHAIR CLIMBER'S DREAM COME TRUE...	Imagine yourself, armchair climber that you invariably are, being invited by a well respected mountaineer to join an expedition to the Karakoram Himalayas to write a book about the experience. What would you do?<br /><br />Well, if you are like Andrew Greig, notwithstanding lack of climbing experience, you find the invitation hard to resist, especially since the mountaineer who invites you, Mal Duff, is personally willing to put you through the paces on some of the local peaks to help you get into the groove of climbing. Before you know it, you find yourself on expedition in the Karakoram Himalayas headed to the Mustagh Tower.<br /><br />This book is the author's account of how he found himself on a high altitude climbing expedition, what he did to train and get in shape for it, what he did when he got there, and what his perceptions were, as a former arm chair climber, of the expedition experience and climbing at high altitude.<br /><br />His account is gritty, realistic, and he tells it the way he sees it, warts and all. Well written, though narrow in scope, it celebrates the roller coaster existence of being on a real live adventure ride that is the lot of expeditioners everywhere.	2002-06-08
1516101:US	49355567	R1ADLNZHX2XS15	0385015089	590970764	Peter Hurkos: I have many lives	Books	3	5	6	N	N	HE  WAS  THE  REAL  DEAL...	This book is not really about Peter Hurkos. It is about Peter Hurkos, the psychic. If one measures this book by whether or not Peter Hurkos is revealed as a charlatan or a true psychic, then it succeeds admirably, as it leaves little doubt that Peter Hurkos was an individual with a highly unusual gift. If you measure the book by whether or not you get to know Peter Hurkos, the person, then it has not succeeded, because the reader comes away with very little feeling as to who Peter Hurkos was. The book, while interesting, suffers from being somewhat one dimensional. Notwithstanding this limitation, it is still a thought provoking read.<br />Peter Hurkos is the famous Dutch psychic who enthralled the world during the nineteen fifties and sixties with his psychic gifts. Uncannily clairvoyant, he was not always so. Born in Holland to a working class Dutch family of simple means, his youth was relatively uneventful. Interestingly enough, however, he was born with the caul which is often taken to mean by those who are superstitious that the individual may have been born with the gift of telepathy or clairvoyance.<br />Though his youth was relatively uneventful, this changed in 1941 when he fell off a ladder and fell four stories, landing on his head. He miraculously survived, but as his friends and family put it, the old Peter had died, and a new one seemed to have taken his place: one who could foretell the future, as well as describe past events, with uncanny accuracy. In the nineteen fifties, he left Holland and came to the United States, where he prospered as a well known psychic.<br />Peter used his gifts commercially, for which he received much criticism. He also became known as a psychic detective for helping the police solve numerous cases. Some of the cases in which he assisted were high profile cases, such as that of the Boston Strangler. Peter Hurkos always believed that the police had arrested the wrong man in that case. It now appears that he may have been right.<br />For many years, Peter Hurkos astonished the world with his psychic gifts. He performed best through the process of psychometry, the divination of information by touching an object belonging to the subject of the reading. I have to admit that some of the documented stories are truly amazing. So amazing that the author, an investigative reporter with a reputation for exposing frauds, became a believer. I do not doubt that the reader will likewise succumb and join the legions of those who believe that Peter Hurkos was, indeed, psychic.ght.<br />For many years, Peter Hurkos astonished the world with his psychic gifts. He performed best through the process of psychometry, the divination of information by touching an object belonging to the subject of the reading. I have to admit that some of the documented stories are truly amazing. So amazing that the author, an investigative reporter with a reputation for exposing frauds, became a believer. I do not doubt that the reader will likewise succumb and join the legions of those who believe that Peter Hurkos was, indeed, psychic.	2002-06-08
1516309:US	49355567	R30PK70GSBYPC3	9993227811	986134010	Kiss Mommy Goodbye	Books	5	0	0	N	N	SUPERLATIVE AND SUSPENSEFUL...	This is a well written novel of suspense. The plot is expertly crafted and well nuanced, keeping the reader turning the pages. With dialogue that rings true, it makes for a riveting read.<br />The story revolves around a young woman, Donna Edmunds, who works for an advertising agency. She meets a very handsome man, Victor Cressy, at a company party, and he wines and dines her in dramatic fashion, sweeping her off her feet. Finding him to be a fantastic and attentive lover, as well, he is the man of her dreams. When he proposes two months later, she accepts, thinking that she has died and gone to heaven. What she does not know is that she in on her way to living a hell on earth. You see, Victor Cressy is a sociopath.<br />At first, the change in Victor and their relationship was imperceptible. It began subtly with a question here, a question there, a suggestion here, a suggestion there. It then escalated to demands that had to be met, assertions of imagined slights, rules that had to be obeyed. Victor separated Donna from her old friends and family, until her isolation was total. It finally culminated in a control so complete that Donna, as a person in her own right, no longer existed. The cycle of extreme and profound psychological abuse had attained its goal. The old Donna was merely a memory, as the new Donna was too afraid to say anything, do anything, or opine on anything. Instead, a Stepford wife with two children had replaced her.<br />In reality, Donna was a woman on the edge of a nervous breakdown, an enigma to all who would meet her, asserting herself in bizarre ways which were only a cry for help . One day, Donna meets a man who recognizes her profound despair and treats her as a human being. She begins an affair with him, which enables her to reach deep into herself and come to terms with her life and her marriage. She asks Victor for a divorce and custody of the children.<br />The court scenes for the ensuing divorce and custody action are wonderfully drawn, as they are the setting for explaining the deterioration of the marriage. The points of truths in their respective accounts are told from different perspectives in a three dimensional, well fleshed narrative that is tautly drawn. One gets a very definite sense of the psychological horror of the marriage and the reason for Donna's almost total annihilation of self.<br />The divorce is granted, but she retains custody of the children. Donna soon finds out that even though she won, she lost, just as Victor had promised. Five months after the divorce, with the visitation arrangements in place, all had been going smoothly. Victor seemed to have adjusted to the situation and, when they met, treated her with civility. One weekend, he picked up the children, as usual, and admonished them to kiss their mother goodbye. It was not until they failed to return as promised, that she realized the import of his admonishment. Victor had merely lulled her into a false sense of complacency. In reality, her nightmare was far from over and was, in fact, just beginning.awn, as they are the setting for explaining the deterioration of the marriage. The points of truths in their respective accounts are told from different perspectives in a three dimensional, well fleshed narrative that is tautly drawn. One gets a very definite sense of the psychological horror of the marriage and the reason for Donna's almost total annihilation of self.<br />The divorce is granted, but she retains custody of the children. Donna soon finds out that even though she won, she lost, just as Victor had promised. Five months after the divorce, with the visitation arrangements in place, all had been going smoothly. Victor seemed to have adjusted to the situation and, when they met, treated her with civility. One weekend, he picked up the children, as usual, and admonished them to kiss their mother goodbye. It was not until they failed to return as promised, that she realized the import of his admonishment. Victor had merely lulled her into a false sense of complacency. In reality, her nightmare was far from over and was, in fact, just beginning.	2002-06-08
1516358:US	49355567	R2RMTY4E116BF3	0671417347	63046535	Ascent: The Spiritual and Physical Quest of Willi Unsoeld	Books	4	3	3	N	N	WILLI UNSOELD...AKA PETER PAN...	Legendary mountaineer, Willi Unsoeld, led an extraordinary life. A self styled guru of mountaineering, he was selfish, egotistical, and narcissistic. He was a modern day Peter Pan who just never grew up, with tragic consequences for some who crossed his path.<br />The author is a devoted admirer of Willi Unsoeld and does not question some of those moments in Willi's life which should be questioned or reflected upon. This is the one criticism of what is otherwise a very interesting, compelling book about a flawed individual who made mountaineering history. His amazing ascent up the West Ridge of Everest to the summit and his subsequent traverse and descent on the South face will live on forever in the annals of mountaineering lore.<br />Willi Unsoeld was a passionate man for whom mountaineering was life itself. He was positively joyous when atop his beloved mountains. It is something which is to be admired. Yet, Willi had a darker side, as well. It is this apparent dichotomy in Willi's life that makes the book such an interesting read.<br />One of the most tragic episodes in Willi's life involved his beautiful daughter, Nanda Devi, named after the mountain of the same name. She was taken by her father on an ill-fated expedition to that same mountain. It was there that she tragically died and was consigned to the mountain. The cause of her death is not made clear by the book, but what is clear to any discerning reader is that Willi bore some responsibility. He acted as no father or responsible expedition leader would have under the circumstances.<br />What made Nanda Devi's death more appalling is that Willi would later romanticize her death in innumerable lectures, exploiting what should have remained private. How he could bring himself to do this is beyond belief. It is no wonder that his wife blamed him for their daughter's death and that this tragedy caused a rift in their marriage.<br />This self-styled guru needed the constant worship of acolytes in order to thrive. As he aged, he sought the adoration of college students, spouting his parboiled life philosphy on the subject of risk taking. It was this self styled, sophomoric philosophy that drove him to take a group of students up Mount Ranier in the dead of winter, when other, more level heads, argued against it. Would that he had listened. He and the student who died in an avalanche with him might today be alive. Alas, it was not to be. Peter Pan finally went to Never-Never Land.ive. As he aged, he sought the adoration of college students, spouting his parboiled life philosphy on the subject of risk taking. It was this self styled, sophomoric philosophy that drove him to take a group of students up Mount Ranier in the dead of winter, when other, more level heads, argued against it. Would that he had listened. He and the student who died in an avalanche with him might today be alive. Alas, it was not to be. Peter Pan finally went to Never-Never Land.	2002-06-08
1516374:US	49355567	RBDA1E1MT6KQ4	0701134070	15147700	Fragile Edge	Books	4	1	1	N	N	THE LONG GOODBYE...	What happens to the loved ones of mountaineers who perish while seeking to climb higher peaks or pioneer new routes on challenging mountains? The author attempts to answer this question with her well written and deeply personal account.<br /><br />The author was intimately involved in the mountaineering world of the nineteen seventies and early nineteen eighties. At the time she was in the throes of an intense love affair with Joe Tasker, the British climber who perished in 1982 with his regular climbing partner, Peter Boardman, while attempting to climb the then unclimbed Northeast ridge of Everest.<br /><br />The author offers an intriguing, birds-eye view into the tight circle of the mountaineering elite through her relationship with Joe Tasker. The book, however, is not about climbing, per se. It is more of a personal catharsis of her relationship with Joe Tasker.<br /><br />Still, this makes for an interesting read. The book is divided into two parts. The first concerns itself with the Joe that was living. The second part concerns itself with the Joe that had perished.<br /><br />The first part chronicles their relationship, which was intense. It also seemed to be a little one sided. The author makes it fairly clear to the reader that Joe Tasker did not seem to have the same commitment to the relationship that the author seems to have had. Her reluctance to let the relationship go appears to have been based more upon what the relationship could have been, rather than upon what it actually was. As they say, love is blind.<br /><br />The second part of the book chronicles her coming to terms with his death. She does this by joining up with Peter Boardman's widow, Hilary, and setting off on a journey to Tibet and, ultimately, to Everest in an attempt to connect to Joe one final time, as well as to seek closure to a part of her life that was no more.<br /><br />Sensitively written and finely drawn, her pain is palpable and her story moving. It is, above all, a fitting tribute to Joe Tasker, the man who inspired such devotion.ing tribute to Joe Tasker, the man who inspired such devotion.	2002-06-08
1524639:US	49355567	RWBNKG3GW2U6R	9997414241	776696576	Royal Road to Fotheringay	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A QUEEN WHO RULED WITH HER HEART AND NOT WITH HER HEAD...	This is a wonderful, captivating work of historical fiction. Weaving a spellbinding tale out of a tapestry of actual events, the author, Victoria Holt, writing under one of several pen names that she used, recounts the tragic and dramatic tale of Mary Stuart, Queen of Scots.<br />Born in Scotland, Mary, whose father, the King of Scotland, died when she was very young, was an only child. Her father's death left her mother, Marie De Guise of France, to rule as Regent in Scotland for her daughter. A wily woman, Marie saw danger to her daughter, if she remained in Scotland. So, she had Mary betrothed to Francois, the Dauphin of France, and sent her  at a very young age to live in the French Court. A happy, pleasing, and bonnie child, she matured into a beautiful young woman and eventually married the Dauphin. After the unexpected death of the King, she and Francois went on to reign as King and Queen of France. Alas, her happness was short lived, as Francois was sickly and in poor health. After his premature death,  there was no place for Mary in the court of her brother-in-law, Charles, the succeeding French King, thanks to the machinations of her evil mother-in-law, Catherine D'Medici.<br />Mary then did the only thing left to do. She set sail for Scotland under the protection of border lord, James Hepburn, the Earl of Bothwell, to reclaim her kingdom as its anointed Queen. Her mother, Marie De Guise, now dead, the Catholic Mary was faced with reclaiming a Protestant kingdom that she had not seen for many years, a kingdom over which her half brother, the illegitimate and Protestant James, meant to rule himself, irrespective of his bastardy.<br />Little did Mary know of the travails that would await her. A quarrelsome group of lords and nobles, whose perfidy, deceit, and ruthless jockeying for power knew no bounds, would plague her brief reign. They would plot against her with her Protestant cousin in England, Elizabeth I, a Queen who ruled with her head and not with her heart. Mary's half brother, James, whose naked ambition was to wear the crown himself, was determined that Mary would be Queen in name only. He would stop at nothing to secure that which he felt was his by right, if not by birth. John Knox, a fire and brimstone religious fanatic, who held Scotland in his thrall, denounced the Catholic Mary at every opportunity, proclaiming her a wanton and rebuffing her overtures and requests for religious tolerance. This is what awaited Mary in Scotland, a harsh and most inhospitable land.<br />This woman, who would be Queen, eventually decided to marry again and made the greatest mistake of all in electing to marry the young and dissolute Lord Henry Darnley, an English Catholic. Though royal by birth, he would eventually bring nothing but shame upon her, plotting against her and those loyal to her. Darnley was the catalyst for some of the greatest scandals in the history of Scotland. Notwithstanding Darnley's perfidy, Mary did her duty and, having been delivered of an infant son fathered by Darnley, provided Scotland with an heir to the throne. She eventually became nothing more than a pawn in the ambitions of men, pitting Mary's half brother, James, now the Earl of Moray, against James, the Earl of Bothwell, one of Darnley's alleged murderers and Mary's seducer. It would be a fight to the finish.<br />With Darnley having died under mysterious circumstances and her passions now aroused, Mary married the Earl of Bothwell, much to the outrage of all of Scotland, and together incurred the emnity of many of the lords and nobles. This would lead to Bothwell's exile and captivity in Denmark, while Mary would flee to England, hoping to meet with Elizabeth and obtain her help in securing her kingdom. Instead, she would remain her cousin Elizabeth's captive for twenty years, being moved from castle to castle, as Mary's Catholic supporters plotted over the years to restore her kingdom to her.<br />Finally, these plots included the throneof England, and Elizabeth could no longer close her eyes to the threat that her still living cousin, Mary, an anointed Catholic Queen with a claim to the throne of Protestant England, presented. For her alleged treason, Mary would be tried, and the castle at Fotheringay would be the end of the line for her in the land in which twenty years earlier she had unwisely sought succor.<br />This is a spellbinding story, told with an infusion of historical detail. Those interested in the story of Mary, Queen of Scots, will, undoubtedly, enjoy this work of historical fiction. It is a fascinating tale of a historical figure whose life remains an intriguing enigma even today.of England, and Elizabeth could no longer close her eyes to the threat that her still living cousin, Mary, an anointed Catholic Queen with a claim to the throne of Protestant England, presented. For her alleged treason, Mary would be tried, and the castle at Fotheringay would be the end of the line for her in the land in which twenty years earlier she had unwisely sought succor.<br />This is a spellbinding story, told with an infusion of historical detail. Those interested in the story of Mary, Queen of Scots, will, undoubtedly, enjoy this work of historical fiction. It is a fascinating tale of a historical figure whose life remains an intriguing enigma even today.	2002-05-31
1529926:US	49355567	R1H7FIWY0ENQCK	0525055452	184757711	Annapurna	Books	4	11	13	N	N	EXTREME ADVENTURE FOR THE GLORY OF FRANCE...	This book is a romanticized, sanitized account of the 1950 French expedition to the Himalayas by its so called leader, Maurice Herzog. It is a book that is reflective of the times in which it was written. Still, it should be a must read for anyone who is interested in high altitude climbing.<br />I first read this book in the early 1960s as a young teenager. I recall being enthralled by it and amazed at the hardships the climbers endured to bring glory to France. In reading it again as an adult, I find myself still enthralled, but more attuned to the fact that it is written in a somewhat self-serving style.<br />The book itself chronicles the attempt by the French to climb an 8,000 meter peak in the Himalayas. They had two alternatives: Dhaulagiri and Annapurna. In those days, the Himalayas were largely uncharted and any topographical maps which existed at the time proved to be largely incorrect. So, the French expedition spent a large portion of their time in reconnaissance. Not only were they there to climb the mountain, they first had to find a way to get to it and then map out a route on the unknown terrain to the summit. Ultimately, they chose to climb Annapurna.<br />In reading this book, one must remember that the climb took place without the sophisticated equipment or protective clothing available today. This was before gortex and freeze-dried foods. This climb was made before Nepal or climbing the Himalayas became a major tourist attraction. The conditions for travellers were extremely primitive and difficult under the best of circumstances.<br />When the expedition finally finds a route to Annapurna, the reader almost feels like cheering for them. When they start to climb, one senses that, in comparison to latter day expeditions, they were not so well equipped or savvy about the dangers one can encounter during a high altitude climb or the risks in doing it without supplemental oxygen, as they did. Then one realizes that they were pioneers. They were paving the way for others.<br />The climb to the summit by Maurice Herzog and his partner, Louis Lachenal, is interesting, but it is their harrowing descent and return to civilization which is riveting. The two summiteers began their descent inauspiciously enough but soon ran into difficulties. They were fortunate enough to encounter two of their fellow climbers, Lionel Terray and Gaston Rebuffat, who were contemplating their own summit assault but, instead, chose to aid their comrades in their descent, foregoing their own quest for the summit.<br />The travails which the climbers encountered on the descent would have finished off less hardy souls. Maurice Herzog lost his gloves during the descent and had no spare pair. One of climbers fell into a crevasse which, believe it or not, turned out to be a good thing. They were caught in an avalanche. They got lost in a storm. They became frostbitten and two of them were, ultimately, forced to endure amputations.<br />The medical treatment they received by the expedition doctor was unbelievable and almost primitive. Employing treatments for frostbite that have since fallen onto disrepute (excruciatingly painful arterial injections, for example), the doctor was almost frightening, at times. The reader cannot help but feel pity for the suffering the injured climbers endured: maggot ridden flesh, amputations without anaesthesia, and lack of proper medical care for a protracted period of time.<br />The heroics of some of the sherpas, as on most expeditions, went largely unsung. One must pause to reflect on the fact that as this all took place before airlifts were available, the injured climbers had to be carried. Their exodus back to the frontier took about five weeks. Who do you think carried them down the mountain, over the moraines, on makeshifts bridges over flooded, raging rivers, through dense jungle? Who else but the sherpas. What thanks did they get? None, as usual.<br />Anyway, when the expedition finally returned to France, Maurice Herzog was lauded as a national hero by the French. He became the media darling. The other three climbers, as were the rest of the climbers on the expedition, were largely ignored and forgotten. Therein lies the tale. If you want to know how this polarization came about, I highly recommend that one also read 'True Summit' by David Roberts. It gives one the inside scoop about the expedition and how things really were.<br />Notwithstanding its idealization, romanticism, and everything is hunky-dory routine, Herzog's book is still a must read for all climbing enthusiasts.ce, Maurice Herzog was lauded as a national hero by the French. He became the media darling. The other three climbers, as were the rest of the climbers on the expedition, were largely ignored and forgotten. Therein lies the tale. If you want to know how this polarization came about, I highly recommend that one also read 'True Summit' by David Roberts. It gives one the inside scoop about the expedition and how things really were.<br />Notwithstanding its idealization, romanticism, and everything is hunky-dory routine, Herzog's book is still a must read for all climbing enthusiasts.	2002-05-27
1530078:US	49355567	RH4JIHPBBV4I6	B00005VLG5	268459856	Christine Jorgensen; personal autobiography	Books	4	4	4	N	N	THE WORLD'S FIRST FAMOUS TRANSSEXUAL...	This is a must read book for those interested in gender identity issues, as well as for those who enjoy memoirs. Ms. Jorgensen was the first American to have a sex change operation and undergo such public scrutiny. Though she never intended to have her transformation become public knowledge, it was leaked to the press, and from then on, her life was never the same. In the cultural milieu of the nineteen fifties, Ms. Jorgensen's sex change was big news.<br />Starting her life out as George Jorgensen, she never quite felt that she fit in and became a loner by inclination. One striking issue in the book, however, is that she came from an extremely loving and supportive family who always unconditionally accepted her as she was, both before and after her metamorphosis. Not every transgendered individual is as lucky as Ms. Jorgensen appears to have been with respect to familial relationships. Perhaps it was because her parents were of Danish descent, and Scandinavian people may tend to be more accepting of these issues.<br />Relentlessly upbeat, the book is a flattering and politely idealized memoir, as if anything too dark were exorcised from its pages. The chapters that cover Ms. Jorgensen's time in Denmark, where her change took place, are somewhat superficial and non-clinical. There is no real indication of any personal struggle or self-doubt with respect to her decision to undergo a life changing transformation. One has to remember, however, that this book was originally published approximately thirty five years ago, when the public's sensibilities on such issues were far more delicate.<br />What does come across in this autobiography is that Ms. Jorgensen had the courage to make a decision that for the time was somewhat unique and cutting edge, as there was virtually no literature available for the general public on transsexualism, and gender identity studies were still in their nascent stage. Ms. Jorgensen essentially paved the way for others by bringing to the public consciousness issues that had not before been the subject of public discussion. In bringing these issues into the public domain, she was subject to a torrent of abuse, as well as discriminatory practices, and seemed to be the endless butt of jokes. She took these problems in stride, however, and always managed to have the last laugh. Laughter, indeed, appears to have been the best medicine.<br />Ms. Jorgensen, an attractive natural blonde, who personified the stereotypic feminine ideal of the time, became an entertainer. Given her notoriety, her career options were limited, as she gathered a crowd whenever her identity became known. Playing the hand that was dealt her, she parlayed her notoriety into a successful club act, digressing into acting. She managed to make a success of herself, living a life that was interesting, but hardly scandalous. While this is an intriguing memoir, it is not an in depth profile of Ms. Jorgensen. The reader comes away knowing about Ms. Jorgensen, rather than knowing her. Still, all in all, it is a worthwhile read.lic consciousness issues that had not before been the subject of public discussion. In bringing these issues into the public domain, she was subject to a torrent of abuse, as well as discriminatory practices, and seemed to be the endless butt of jokes. She took these problems in stride, however, and always managed to have the last laugh. Laughter, indeed, appears to have been the best medicine.<br />Ms. Jorgensen, an attractive natural blonde, who personified the stereotypic feminine ideal of the time, became an entertainer. Given her notoriety, her career options were limited, as she gathered a crowd whenever her identity became known. Playing the hand that was dealt her, she parlayed her notoriety into a successful club act, digressing into acting. She managed to make a success of herself, living a life that was interesting, but hardly scandalous. While this is an intriguing memoir, it is not an in depth profile of Ms. Jorgensen. The reader comes away knowing about Ms. Jorgensen, rather than knowing her. Still, all in all, it is a worthwhile read.	2002-05-27
1530446:US	49355567	R26RACAQTNP1Z0	0195190610	188340950	Starlight and Storm: The Ascent of Six Great North Faces of the Alps	Books	4	2	2	N	N	POETRY IN MOTION...THE BROTHERHOOD OF THE ROPE...	Lyrically written, the author, Gaston Rebuffat, one of the world's climbing greats, expresses such joy for mountaineering that it is infectious. No climbing enthusiast's library should be without this book. The photograph of Rebuffat which graces the cover of this book is alone worth the price of the book.<br />Rebuffat is positively poetic in his description of various climbs. The reader almost feels as if one were one with the mountain. A purist, the author climbed not for the glory of it, but for the sheer joy of the brotherhood of the rope. In these days, where climbing is often just a reason for a media event, the author's approach is refreshing, indeed.	2002-05-27
1530572:US	49355567	RBZ08QU0ZSLS2	0912376058	393857282	The Hiding Place	Books	5	6	7	N	N	INCREDIBLY MOVING SAGA OF HEROIC DUTCH FAMILY DURING WW I I	This is an absolutely extraordinary book. Never have I read a book in which the spiritual beauty of the author so resonated throughout the story. The purity of heart that manifests itself in this inspiring saga of a heroic, Dutch family in Nazi occupied Holland during World War II is stunningly beautiful.<br />This is the true story of the Ten Boom family who, during the Nazi occupation of The Netherlands, upon seeing what was happening to their jewish neighbors and friends, asked themselves this age old question \\"If not us,...who; if not now, when?\\" They answered it, ultimately, at great cost.<br />The Ten Booms were devoutly Christian and lived a simple life. The patriarch of the family ran a watch shop that had been in his family for a century. Some of the family members, the author among them, worked there, selling and repairing clocks and watches. They also lived in the house in which the shop was located.<br />When the Nazis occupied their country, the reality of what it meant slowly dawned upon them, as they saw the treatment given to their fellow Dutch citizens of the jewish faith. Moved by their plight, the author at the age of fifty, together with other members of her family, including their father who was nearly eighty, became active in the Dutch underground.<br />When it became clear to the Ten Booms that jews were being targeted for deportation and death, they had a false wall constructed in the author's bedroom, thereby creating a secret room. There, they would hide the terrified jews who were staying with them, in the event of a Nazi raid upon their home.<br />Eventually denounced by someone to the Nazis, the Ten Booms were arrested and their home raided and torn apart by the Gestapo, in their search for the jews they believed to be hiding there. At the time of the raid, the Ten Boom home was filled to capacity with jews in hiding. So well concealed was the hidden room that had been created by the erection of the false wall, that these poor, terrified jews managed to escape detection.<br />The Ten Boom family did not fare so well. It was upon their arrest that they learned first hand of man's inhumanity to man, and their faith was put to a test that they had never dreamt possible. It was faith, however, that sustained the author in what was to be her hour of darkest despair. To find out what happened to the Ten Booms, read this book. It is the story of an incredible family, who had the courage to put their convictions to the test.<br />This book is a masterpiece. The reader is sure to be captivated by the goodness and spiritual beauty contained within its pages.jews managed to escape detection.<br />The Ten Boom family did not fare so well. It was upon their arrest that they learned first hand of man's inhumanity to man, and their faith was put to a test that they had never dreamt possible. It was faith, however, that sustained the author in what was to be her hour of darkest despair. To find out what happened to the Ten Booms, read this book. It is the story of an incredible family, who had the courage to put their convictions to the test.<br />This book is a masterpiece. The reader is sure to be captivated by the goodness and spiritual beauty contained within its pages.	2002-05-27
1531282:US	49355567	R2KOT8JZ1328SH	0399143807	659470638	Judas Child	Books	5	22	22	N	Y	I SEE DEAD PEOPLE...	This is an intensely gripping, suspenseful, tautly written, psychological thriller. The author, a master storyteller, weaves a compelling tapestry of events, as well as a complex plot in which history seems to repeat itself.<br />Several days before Christmas, in a small, bucolic, tightly knit town, two ten year old girls, best friends, Sadie Green and Gwen Hubble, suddenly disappear. One of the local cops, Rouge Kendall, becomes involved in the investigation and manhunt that ensues. The case calls to mind his own brush with a madman, when fifteen years earlier his own ten year old, twin sister, Susan, had likewise been abducted. She was found murdered on Christmas Day, and his family never fully recovered from the blow they were dealt by Susan's untimely and grisly death. A local priest, Father Paul Marie, was arrested for Susan's abduction and murder, tried, and convicted.<br />Enter Ali Cray, a former classmate of Rouge and Susan, who is now a forensic psychologist. Facially disfigured, she carries with her emotional baggage from her past. Yet, she is determined to make sure that justice is done in this case. She has a theory of the case about which she feels strongly. She believes that one of the girls functioned as a Judas child, a secondary target who is used as bait to lure the primary target into a trap. She also believes that Susan Kendall's fifteen year old abduction and murder and the current abductions are linked, notwithstanding the fact that Paul Marie is incarcerated at the time of Sadie's and Gwen's apparent abduction. Should Ali Cray be proven correct in her theory, an innocent man has been paying for the crimes of another all this time.<br />The author serves up a brilliant narrative, imbuing the two abducted girls with personalities that hook the viewers. Sadie Green is the irrepressible, fearless leader of the two. Creative, resourceful, irreverent, highly intelligent, and loyal, she is a kid who thinks outside the box, as a matter of course. Gwen Hubble is also highly intelligent, as well as sensitive and intuitive, but more timid and reserved than Sadie by nature, a follower not a leader. While all in town are hoping that both will be found alive, it is Ali Cray's conjecture that the child who is designated as the Judas child is quickly dispatched by her abductor. She believes that the child who is the primary target will live for a short time, until she too is dispatched, most certainly by Christmas, so as to wreak maximum emotional havoc.<br />The narrative flips back and forth between that which is happening in the town, not only with the investigation but also with some of the townspeople, and that which is being ostensibly experienced by Sadie and Gwen during their captivity. What happens to the girls is absolutely riveting, as well as heartbreaking. This is a vividly drawn, skillfully layered tour de force that is imbued with intriguing mystery and, at the same time, infinite sadness. The reader is sure to remain glued to the pages of this book, until the very last page is turned.n Hubble is also highly intelligent, as well as sensitive and intuitive, but more timid and reserved than Sadie by nature, a follower not a leader. While all in town are hoping that both will be found alive, it is Ali Cray's conjecture that the child who is designated as the Judas child is quickly dispatched by her abductor. She believes that the child who is the primary target will live for a short time, until she too is dispatched, most certainly by Christmas, so as to wreak maximum emotional havoc.<br />The narrative flips back and forth between that which is happening in the town, not only with the investigation but also with some of the townspeople, and that which is being ostensibly experienced by Sadie and Gwen during their captivity. What happens to the girls is absolutely riveting, as well as heartbreaking. This is a vividly drawn, skillfully layered tour de force that is imbued with intriguing mystery and, at the same time, infinite sadness. The reader is sure to remain glued to the pages of this book, until the very last page is turned.	2002-05-26
1531576:US	49355567	RKD6AE72D86XE	0312975597	164608924	Blind Passion: A True Story of Seduction, Obsession, and Murder (St. Martin's True Crime Library)	Books	3	17	18	N	Y	BEAUTY AND THE BEAST...	This is the sad and pathetic story of a beautiful, fun loving, young woman, wife, and mother, who went away with her husband on a cruise ship and met the man with whom she would have an affair and for whom she would divorce her husband. Little did she know that her affair would end in her murder at her lover's hands.<br />Julie Scully seemed to have everything a woman would want. She had a doting husband, a beautiful home, enough money to spend as she pleased, a beautiful daughter, and many friends. She was also beautiful and a popular swimsuit model for a local New Jersey newspaper. A reader's favorite, Julie loved being a minor celebrity.<br />After the birth of her daughter, Katie, this vivacious party girl suffered from post-partum depression. Her marriage on the rocks, she turned to cocaine. In an effort to save her marriage, however, she suggested that she and her husband, Tim, take a Caribbean cruise together. It was aboard that cruise ship that Julie would meet George Skiadopoulos, a not particularly attractive Greek sailor six years her junior. Their mutual attraction would set Julie on the path to perdition.<br />Julie began an affair with George while still married. Cuckolding Tim, Julie carried on a trans-Atlantic love affair with George that would see her eventually divorce Tim. She and George planned to get married and, leaving three year old Katie behind with Tim, Julie moved to Greece to be with her lover and, with the large cash settlement from her divorce, hoped to marry and live happily ever after with him.<br />Unfortunately for her, there would be no happy ending, as there were things about George that she did not know. By the time she realized that he had some serious issues, it was too late, as death was already knocking at her door. This shallow, self absorbed woman would meet an unenviable and gruesome death.<br /><br />This is a well written and fairly absorbing true crime novel. It focuses on the dynamics of Julie's relationships but lacks some depth, mainly because the emotionally immature victim seemed to be so one dimensional. Readers may feel sorry for Julie in the abstract but do not come away feeling that they knew what made her tick. She is an enigma in death, as she was in life. This is the one weakness of the book. Still, true crime fans should find this book to be a worthwhile read.some depth, mainly because the emotionally immature victim seemed to be so one dimensional. Readers may feel sorry for Julie in the abstract but do not come away feeling that they knew what made her tick. She is an enigma in death, as she was in life. This is the one weakness of the book. Still, true crime fans should find this book to be a worthwhile read.	2002-05-25
1556216:US	49355567	R28NHJM5UXVZM3	0688013848	497506801	Great Balls of Fire: The Uncensored Story of Jerry Lee Lewis	Books	4	14	16	N	N	WHOLE LOTTA SHAKIN' GOIN' ON...	Entertaining biography of rock and roller Jerry Lee Lewis. It details his rise from the poverty of rural Louisiana to become a rock and roll legend. Told by his wife of thirteen years, Myra Lewis, the book recounts an insider's view of those early days of rock and roll and of the rise of Jerry Lee Lewis in the annals of rock and roll.<br />Jerry grew up with his first cousin, Jimmy Lee Swaggart, who in his own right achieved a measure of notoriety as a prominent preacher and televangelist. Lewis, however, a music lover from early childhood, wanted nothing more than to be a piano playing musician. A backwoods good ole boy, he shocked the country with his antics, topping it all off with his marriage to his thirteen year old cousin, Myra, an act which brought him unwelcome notoriety.<br />Known for his high energy performances, Jerry Lee Lewis lived hard, played hard, and worked hard at his music. His was a life of which legends are made. This book is an enjoyable, no holds barred narrative of that life.	2002-05-04
1579021:US	49355567	R3O4XI5WA4VGDD	0743203275	828963927	True Summit: What Really Happened on the Legendary Ascent on Annapurna	Books	4	22	25	N	N	TRUE SUMMIT...TRULY WONDERFUL	This book explores what may actually have happened during the 1950 French expedition to the Himalayas which was 'led' by Maurice Herzog. This expedition was the first to summit an 8,000 meter peak, and it was the cause for much nationalist pride in post-war France.<br />'True Summit' is a very interesting read in terms of its research, as well as its historical and archival detail. Its author, David Roberts, is himself a mountaineer and has an innate understanding of the subject matter of the book, which contributes to its success.<br />I would, however, highly recommend that one first read Maurice Herzog's &quot;Annapurna&quot; which is Herzog's first person, romanticized account of the expedition and the source for much of what is analyzed in this book. Reading it will ground readers of 'True Summit' in the context out of which this book arises, and will make it that much more enjoyable.<br />After the ostensible summit of Annapurna (more about this in 'True Summit') by Herzog and Louis Lachenal who were aided in their harrowing descent by fellow expeditioners, Lionel Terray and Gaston Rebuffat, only Maurice Herzog went on to become a national hero in France. The other three mountaineers, all of whom were more experienced and proficient, were largely ignored in what was to become a carefully orchestrated, media event around Maurice Herzog.<br />&quot;True Summit&quot; attempts to set the story straight and right past wrongs. It also helps to debunk the self-serving, though gripping, sanitized account authored by expedition leader Maurice Herzog. What emerges is a more realistic picture of what may have actually transpired during that fateful, 1950 French expedition.<br />This book ensures that the contributions of three of the main protagonists, Lachenal, Terray, and Rebuffat, all highly experienced mountaineers from the Chamonix region of France, will not be forgatten. It is a memorial to their efforts during that expedition and well worth reading.	2002-04-15
1595262:US	49355567	R1CTYSAERCCCIN	0553526774	313045692	Hannibal	Books	2	6	13	N	N	THOMAS HARRIS IS A WRITER NOT A READER...	In this abridged, audio cassette version of \\"Hannibal\\", the author, Thomas Harris, decides to treat the listener by doing the reading himself. This was a decided mistake. Mr. Harris, while no doubt a masterful story teller, is unable to read his own work without making the listener wish that Hannibal Lecter would creep up upon him and put an end to his reading. Mr. Harris should stick to writing, something at which he is quite capable, and leave the reading to those whose talents lie in that direction. This is, without a doubt, one of the worst audio cassette versions of a book that I have ever heard. Mr. Harris has a voice that gives the same effect as one who is raking one's fingernails across a blackboard.<br />The story itself is fairly good, though it is not in league with \\"Red Dragon\\" or \\"The Silence of the Lambs\\". Here, Hannibal Lecter, having escaped from custody about ten years ago, is living the good life in Europe. Unbeknownst to him, however, he is being hunted down by Mason Verger, a fabulously wealthy, former patient of Dr. Lecter. Verger is also one of Lecter's victims who happened to have survived Lecter's unusual mode of attack. Left horribly disfigured by his former encounter with Lecter, Verger is very determined to hunt him down, and what he has in mind for Lecter will chill the listener. It is Verger who is truly monstrous, as the listener will discover (though with his unskilful reading, Harris gives him a run for his money).<br />FBI Special Agent Clarice Starling remains an integral part of the story. After heading up a drug bust that went bad, she becomes persona non grata with the FBI. Still, when the FBI gets a tip about Lecter's whereabouts, it is she to whom the FBI turns, given the unusual relationship she previously had with Dr. Lecter. This assignment, too, turns bad, as Agent Starling is being set up for a fall by members of her own agency. What ultimately happens to all the players in this story is horrific.<br />This abridged audio cassette version gets three stars for content and one star for the reading by the author. If one is interested in an audio version of the book, it is recommended that one pass on this one and try any one of the other versions in which the author is not the reader.cassette version gets three stars for content and one star for the reading by the author. If one is interested in an audio version of the book, it is recommended that one pass on this one and try any one of the other versions in which the author is not the reader.	2002-04-03
1597710:US	49355567	R2R20C6MUK710O	0718110676	868613530	Stepford Wives	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	BARBIE RULES!	This is a thought provoking, tautly written novella. A gem of suspense, it was first published in the early nineteen seventies and went on to become a popular movie of the same name, starring Katherine Ross.<br />The story is very simple but gripping and well written. Joanna Eberhart moves to the seemingly bucolic town of Stepford with her husband, Walter, and two children, leaving behind the dangers of big city living. An independent, assertive, intelligent, and creative woman, Joanna epitomizes the newly liberated women of the nineteen seventies. Looking for like souls with whom to become friends, she seeks out some of the other married women of the town, only to find that they are all uniformly addicted to housework, give their husbands complete obeisance, are made up to the gills, and have figures courtesy of maidenform.<br />Joanna manages to find several like minded women such as herself. Yet, when they, too, become addicted to housework after having a romantic weekend alone with their respective husbands, Joanna becomes convinced that the town's Men's Association has hatched a sinister plot to change all the wives of Stepford into submissive Barbie dolls. Will Joanna manage to escape the fate of the rest of the Stepford wives? Read the book and find out. You will not be disappointed.	2002-04-01
1599665:US	49355567	R32YX60RB5UBMB	0786011475	274313538	Damaged Goods (Pinnacle True Crime)	Books	5	26	28	N	Y	CRIME DOES NOT PAY...	This is a well written, true crime book. It tells the story of a self absorbed, sociopathic personality. It is the story of a married man, Dan Willoughby, who, during a mid-life crisis, decided he wanted to marry the sexy, wanton, and amoral Yesenia Patino with whom he had been cheating on his wife. Instead of simply divorcing his wife, Trish, the mother of his children, he decided to kill her, motivated soley by greed.<br /><br />Masquerading as a hard working, devout mormon, family man for many years, Dan Willoughby was nothing more than a con man, gulling all those whom he knew. The ensuing investigation of the murder revealed Willoughby to be a  real bottom feeder. A liar, a cheat, a thief, and, ultimately, a murderer, Willoughby would not escape the long arm of the law, as his dead wife's family would not let the matter rest in their pursuit for justice.<br /><br />Dan arranged to commit the brutal murder in Mexico and planned an elaborate charade that included using his children in his murder scenario. He ensured that they would be the ones to find their dead, blood soaked mother. He went to all this trouble so that he could get some insurance money, his wife's share of a thriving business, and the freedom to marry the person with whom he had become obsessed, Yesenio Patino. Little did he know that his wife would have the last laugh from the grave, as the police investigation revealed that Ms. Patino was a transsexual who had once been a man and had had a sex change operation! It was a fact that Ms. Patino had conveniently neglected to tell Willoughby.<br /><br />The author paints a compelling portrait of the personalities involved in this matter. It persuasively lays out the details of the events that propelled Willoughby to the consummate finale.  The police investigation and courtroom drama is succintly summarized. The book is neither a police nor courtroom procedural. What the author attempts to do is provide a portrait of those who were in some way involved in this matter. In that, it certainly succeeds. Persuasively written, the book leaves the reader with little doubt as to the guilt of Dan Willoughby and his accomplice, Yesenio Patino.<br /><br />The book provides sixteen pages of photographs of the parties involved in this tragedy. It is a compelling and absorbing read that will keep the reader turning the pages. Those who enjoy reading well written books in the true crime genre will enjoy this one. It will certainly appeal to fans of Ann Rule and Jack Olsen.ed in this matter. In that, it certainly succeeds. Persuasively written, the book leaves the reader with little doubt as to the guilt of Dan Willoughby and his accomplice, Yesenio Patino.<br /><br />The book provides sixteen pages of photographs of the parties involved in this tragedy. It is a compelling and absorbing read that will keep the reader turning the pages. Those who enjoy reading well written books in the true crime genre will enjoy this one. It will certainly appeal to fans of Ann Rule and Jack Olsen.	2002-03-30
1599890:US	49355567	R2JS07F92CA0EM	0312977360	675868129	The Church of Dead Girls: A Novel	Books	5	5	7	N	N	RIVETING AND GRIPPING...	This is an exquisitely written book. So beautifully is it written that, at times, its lyricism is almost poetic. The richness of the writing is immediately apparent in the prologue. It is the prologue that draws the reader in, so rich is it in its decriptiveness. It is there that the reader first comes upon \\"The Church of Dead Girls.\\"<br /><br />The book itself is not so much about the murder of young girls, as it is about the reactions of the people in the small town in which the murders occur. It is their reactions to the  murders that are central to this book and conveyed to the reader through a brilliantly nuanced, first person narrative by the town's high school biology teacher.<br /><br />The people in the town of Aurelius in upstate New York are like those found in many small towns, insular and inherently suspicious of anything different from that which they are used to. Aurelius is representative of a lot of small towns across America. There is really nothing special about this moribund, complacent little town, until young, teenage girls begin disappearing, one by one.<br /><br />Through the contrivance of first person narration, the author explores the deepest recesses of human nature, as suspicions and accusations unfold and fingerpointing begins. No one in town is exempt from the poison of suspicion. The finger is first pointed to the most likely target, a foreign born college professor whose ideas run counter to that of mainstream middle America. He is a newcomer to the town and is as different from the majority of the townspeople as can be. This hapless individual becomes demonized in the frenzy of suspicion, petty hatreds, and fear with draconian results. Unfortunately, he is only the first.<br /><br />As the townspeople rally to find the killer amongst them, they devolve, letting impulse, suspicion, and fear grow and dictate their actions. It is as if the murders were the catalyst for the rise in vigilantism, the re-opening of old wounds, and the targeting of innocents in the desperate quest to find the killer. One can see the growth of mob mentality evolve on the pages of this book. It is this phenomenon that the author explores through the book's narrative discourse, beautifully, lyrically, powerfully. It is a narrative that will grip the reader from beginning to end.<br /><br />While the actual ending of the book is somewhat anti-climactic, it should be emphasized that this book was never really about who committed the murders. It is more about the boogeyman of fear that lives deep inside each and everyone of us and about what can happen when that boogeyman is released. It is that, which is truly frightening, as the boogeyman lives in Everyman in Everytown.eting of innocents in the desperate quest to find the killer. One can see the growth of mob mentality evolve on the pages of this book. It is this phenomenon that the author explores through the book's narrative discourse, beautifully, lyrically, powerfully. It is a narrative that will grip the reader from beginning to end.<br /><br />While the actual ending of the book is somewhat anti-climactic, it should be emphasized that this book was never really about who committed the murders. It is more about the boogeyman of fear that lives deep inside each and everyone of us and about what can happen when that boogeyman is released. It is that, which is truly frightening, as the boogeyman lives in Everyman in Everytown.	2002-03-30
1603569:US	49355567	REALOJ9BGRWZI	0449000613	939520521	Rose Cottage: A Novel	Books	3	3	5	N	Y	NOT BAD...NOT GREAT	This is a mildly suspenseful, atmospheric novel about a young, war widow, Kate Herrick, who in 1947 at the request of her ill grandmother in Scotland goes to Rose Cottage, her childhood home in the English countryside. Kate is to retrieve some of her grandmother's documents and personal belongings. When she gets there, however, she discovers that she is too late. Someone has been there before her.<br />As Kate investigates the mysterious disappearance of her grandmother's property, she ends up discovering somethings about her own past.  Well written and redolent of a bygone era, the book unravels a pleasant, uncomplicated story. Never too mysterious and not one of the author's best efforts, the book is a predictable, though somewhat enjoyable, read.	2002-03-27
1616729:US	49355567	R3AHAPTUTN8TIZ	014018869X	651296590	Cold Comfort Farm (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	QUIRKY, BRILLIANT, AND HILARIOUS PARODY...	Published in 1932, this novel is a hysterically funny, tongue in cheek parody of the heavy handed, gloomy novels of some early twentieth century English writers who had previously been so popular. Tremendously successful when first published, &quot;Cold Comfort Farm&quot; caused quite a stir in its time.<br />The novel starts out innocuosly enough, when well educated Flora Poste finds herself orphaned at the age of twenty. Discovering that her father was not the wealthy man she believed him to be, she is resigned to the fate of having to live on a hundred pounds a year. Opting to live with relatives, rather than earn her bread, she seeks out a most unlikely set of relations, the odd Starkadder family who live in Howling, Sussex.<br />Therein begins what is certainly one of the funniest novels ever written. When Flora arrives in Howling, she meets her odd relatives, who live in neglected, ramshackle &quot;Cold Comfort Farm&quot;, where they still wash the dishes with twigs, and have cows named Graceless, Pointless, Feckless, and Aimless. Headed by a seventy nine year old matriarch, Flora's aunt, Ada Doom Starkadder, who has not been right in the head since she &quot;saw something nasty happen in the woodshed&quot; nearly seventy years ago, they are a motley and strange crew indeed. Confronted with their dismal and gloomy existence, Flora sets about trying to put things to right.<br />Peppered with eccentric, memorable characters, this book will take the reader on a journey not easily forgotten. It is one that is sure to make the reader revisit this novel yet again, like an old friend who is missed too soon.	2002-03-17
1619554:US	49355567	R3SK33ALPMIAET	0316525138	18716214	Tally's Corner	Books	5	4	4	N	N	RELEVANT THEN...RELEVANT NOW...	This study of Black streetcorner men by noted anthropologist, Dr. Elliot Liebow, was his doctoral dissertation. It became recognized as one of the more important sociological treatises at the time it was written; a time during which Blacks or African Americans were still referred to as Negroes. Dr. Liebow's year and a half long study of a group of disaffected Black males, who routinely frequented a streetcorner in Washington, D.C.'s inner city, provided the basis for the dissertation that gave rise to this book. His analysis of this particular societal subculture, in the context of the overall social milieu in which it exists, is still relevant today. While scholarly, the book is written in an engaging conversational tone, which makes for easy reading. This book should be read by all those with an interest in the social sciences.	2002-03-14
1626578:US	49355567	R3KSXCFSEEU3B3	0515129062	340807429	The Queen's Man (Time Passages)	Books	5	8	11	N	Y	QUEEN ELIZABETH OR KING RICHARD?	With her third time travel novel, Terri Brisbin once again captures the hearts of her fans. Ms. Brisbin is fast becoming a force with which to reckon in the time travel genre.<br />Thirty year old Sharon Reynolds, head curator for the historical costume and fabric collection of the Chicago Museum, is in an old manor house in London, England, examining a collection of clothing purported to be from the Elizabethan period. While doing so, she discovers a piece of parchment dated 1560 A.D. concealed in one of the gowns, the written contents of which, had it been discovered back then, would have had the power to change history as we know it. In her excitement to share this find with her colleagues, Sharon stumbles into a small, hidden room and finds herself transported to sixteenth century Elizabethan England.<br />There, she is providentially mistaken for one of Queen Elizabeth's seamstresses. She meets up with the Queen's stable master, the handsome and charming Richard Granville, illegitimate son of Henry VIII and half brother to Queen Elizabeth I. Attracted to him, she finds herself falling in love with him before she realizes that the parchment she holds has the power to change his fate, as well as that of Elizabeth and England, forever.<br />This is a wonderfully inventive time travel tale, replete with political intrigues, plot twists, and characters who charm the reader. The author masterfully weaves a tapestry of events that will keep the reader turning the pages of this book.	2002-03-09
1635333:US	49355567	R1ET1EZDRUHXFS	0553801376	598224178	One Door Away from Heaven	Books	3	8	10	N	N	A MUMBO JUMBO GUMBO...	I enjoyed this book and wavered on the rating. I had a difficult time deciding whether to rate it a three or a four. I finally decided on three because, while it is an enjoyable read, it is not one of his best. Those who read and enjoyed the author's last book, \\"From the Corner Of His Eye\\", as I did, will, undoubtedly, enjoy this one, though it is not as good.<br /><br />Here, this genre bending book, written with wry humor, has a series of subplots and colorful characters with improbable names that propel the story forward. Twenty-eight year old Michelina Birdsong is a young and beautiful woman with a troubled past. Living in a trailer park with her eccentric aunt, Geneva, she lacks focus and is overly fond of lemon flavored vodka. It is as if she has lost the will to live.<br /><br />When she gets new neighbors in the mobile home next door, one of whom is the precocious and physically deformed nine year, Leilani Klonk, her heart is touched most unexpectedly by the pathos of her young life. As Leilani is living with a drug crazed mother and step-father, a sociopathic \\"doctor\\" who may be a serial killer, Mickey finds herself wanting to make Leilani's life better and in doing so, redeeming her own. When Leilani and her family precipitously abandon their mobile home one night, Michelina, fearing the worst for Leilani, springs into action and finds herself in hot pursuit of this family, hoping to avert a tragedy.<br /><br />Meanwhile, a young motherless boy, who calls himself Curtis, and his dog, a Labrador with whom he has a most unique relationship, are racing away from their own potential Armageddon. This boy, too, is precocious and quite gifted, but seems to lack a true understanding of the ways and customs of those whom he meets. He is just a beat off. Still, while there is something odd about him, it is clear that, though he seems to have unusual gifts, he has a pure spirit and is a good boy running from a great evil. His pursuers, seemingly invincible and other worldly, will stop at nothing to get a hold of Curtis and keep him from his mission. The journey that Curtis makes is quite astonishing.<br /><br />At some point the paths of these main characters improbably cross and all is made somewhat, though not totally, clear. The book, which is an imaginative blend of suspense, science fiction, and bioethical philosophy, has somewhat religious or quasi-spiritual overtones, as it boils down to the quintessential battle between good and evil. In this book, Koontz continues on the path he forged with his previous book, \\"From the Corner of His Eye\\". To where that path will ultimately lead, however, remains to be seen.worldly, will stop at nothing to get a hold of Curtis and keep him from his mission. The journey that Curtis makes is quite astonishing.<br /><br />At some point the paths of these main characters improbably cross and all is made somewhat, though not totally, clear. The book, which is an imaginative blend of suspense, science fiction, and bioethical philosophy, has somewhat religious or quasi-spiritual overtones, as it boils down to the quintessential battle between good and evil. In this book, Koontz continues on the path he forged with his previous book, \\"From the Corner of His Eye\\". To where that path will ultimately lead, however, remains to be seen.	2002-03-02
1636021:US	49355567	R37DHRV63B4STE	0006123252	831572718	Queen's Confession	Books	5	2	2	N	N	LET THEM EAT CAKE...	Victoria Holt was one of my favorite authors when I was younger. A master storyteller, she would consistently weave a story that would have the reader turning the pages. This work of historical fiction is one of her best. Riveting from beginning to end, this fictional autobiographical account of the life of Marie Antoinette is superb. Written in the first person, with little dialogue, it is the rumination of a life that was to end tragically. Pampered, spoiled, and fun loving, the beautiful Maria Antonia of Austria metamorphosed into Marie Antoinette of France upon her marriage to the Dauphin, who would eventually become King of France, the ineffectual, but benign, Louis XVI.<br /><br />This is her story, grounded in historical fact and set within the framework of history. This work of fiction about the life of Marie Antoinette, as seen through her own eyes, is fascinating, as it captures the flavor of those uncertain times and the events that led to the French Revolution and the end of the monarchy in France. It is a reflection on how Marie Antoinette's own behavior influenced the fate of France. Indulging in the excesses of the day, she initially gave little thought as to how her actions might affect the people of France or the monarchy. By the time she realized that her actions and excesses had wide spread political ramifications, it was too late, and the fate of her and her husband was sealed. No amount of personal regret could change it.<br /><br />This book will be enjoyed by those who enjoy good, well written historical fiction. It is little wonder that this book spent two months on the New York Times Best Seller List. It is simply historical fiction at its best.	2002-03-01
1636354:US	49355567	R3AJTE84GG9F71	0385082762	120587869	The Queen's Confession	Books	5	19	19	N	N	LET THEM EAT CAKE...	Victoria Holt was one of my favorite authors when I was younger. A master storyteller, she would consistently weave a story that would have the reader turning the pages. This work of historical fiction is one of her best. Riveting from beginning to end, this fictional autobiographical account of the life of Marie Antoinette is superb. Written in the first person, with little dialogue, it is the rumination of a life that was to end tragically. Pampered, spoiled, and fun loving, the beautiful Maria Antonia of Austria metamorphosed into Marie Antoinette of France upon her marriage to the Dauphin, who would eventually become King of France, the ineffectual, but benign, Louis XVI.<br />This is her story, grounded in historical fact and set within the framework of history. This work of fiction about the life of Marie Antoinette, as seen through her own eyes, is fascinating, as it captures the flavor of those uncertain times and the events that led to  the French Revolution and the end of the monarchy in France. It is a reflection on how Marie Antoinette's own behavior influenced the fate of France. Indulging in the excesses of the day, she initially gave little thought as to how her actions might affect the people of France or the monarchy. By the time she realized that her actions and excesses had wide spread political ramifications, it was too late, and the fate of her and her husband was sealed. No amount of personal regret could change it.<br />This book will be enjoyed by those who enjoy good, well written historical fiction. It is little wonder that this book spent two months on the New York Times Best Seller List. It is simply historical fiction at its best.	2002-03-01
1637318:US	49355567	R11X61CSON4ZEF	0380790963	597252567	The Promise	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A SEQUEL TO HOWL ABOUT,,,	The author, Donna Boyd, is to werewolves what Anne Rice is to vampires. With her lyrical use of language and her deeply sensuous imagery, the author contines the tale that she began in her first book, \\"The Passion\\". It is a tale of a subculture of wealthy, urbane, highly intelligent, well educated and charismatic werewolves who live amonst humans unbeknownst to them. They are the movers and shakers of society, the quintessential beautiful people. In this manner, they informally and secretly rule humans, directing our world peacably and enriching it. These shape shifting, sensuous creatures are truly benevolent rulers and are led by a member of the aristocratic Devoncroix clan. When their leader, Alexander Devoncroix, dies, their son, Nicholas, must now lead the pack. He is hellbent, however, on changing that benevolent philosophy.<br />When Nicholas is critically injured in a plane crash in the Alaskan wilderness, he is found in his wolf form, battered, burned, and bloody, by a reclusive scientist, Hannah Braselton North, who has an affinity for wolves and treats his wounds in her small cabin. Having pulled from the wreckage a diary, she hunkers down to read it, while her \\"patient\\" recuperates. What she reads is the ostensible memoir of someone named Matise Devoncroix. It is an erotic and sensuos tale tale of star crossed lovers who are members of a race of werewolves who live secretly amonst humans. Drawn into the tale, and at first imagining it to be fiction, she soon realizes that this is no mere tale but a revelation that is somehow connected to her mysterious \\"patient\\".<br />Beautifully written and suspenseful, the book, a story within a story, is riveting and will keep the reader turning the pages. It is an excellent sequel to her first book, \\"The Passion\\". While not absolutely necessary, it is recommended that one first read \\"The Passion\\", as it will undoubtedly enhance the pleasure of reading \\"The Promise\\".	2002-02-28
1655514:US	49355567	R60K5J2TDHT8W	0689107463	217209334	The deadly messiah	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A PLAGUE LIKE NO OTHER...	This is a fast paced, page turning thriller. A wholly plot driven book, there is little character development. So, if one is looking for a literary feast, one should probably look elsewhere. If one is interested in a book with an interesting plot and a somewhat surprising ending, this book fits the bill.<br /><br />In the small town of Bensonville, the unthinkable happens. Everyone suddenly seems to be stricken with illnesses that turn inexplicably fatal. Within hours the town is decimated, as if it were a plague ridden, medieval town. No one knows why. The few survivors are stunned. One of these is Jess Barrett, Rhodes Scholar and Ph.D. He teams up with presidential aide, Micah Maruyama, along with a team of renowned medical doctors to discover the cause of this seemingly inexplicable phenomenon. Enter beautiful and intelligent Vera Norman, a highly respected astrologer, who assists them in unraveling the mystery surrounding this epidemic. It turns out not to be a medical problem, but rather, something far more sinister and intriguing.<br /><br />This book gets off to a running start and simply does not let up. It will appeal to those who enjoy Michael Crichton and Robin Cook novels. as well as to those who simply enjoy a good story.	2002-02-13
1666980:US	49355567	R2BOKC6BG3ASRH	0385489366	375996256	Something's Wrong with Your Scale!: A Romantic Comedy	Books	3	1	1	N	N	CALLING ALL CHUBBY CHASERS...	This book is often funny and, at times, reads as if it were a stand up comedy routine. It tells the story of an overweight young man, Sonny Walker, who is dumped by his erstwhile girlfriend, Marsha, for his having put on about seventy five pounds more than she could stand. He then goes on a personal odyssey to lose weight, joining a weight loss group, where he meets the obese but luscious Kayla. This book is their story.<br />Funny and irreverent, the book suffers at times from stereotypic, one dimensional characterizations. It is a plot driven book that often has the reader thinking that something good is just around the corner on the next page. Sometimes it is, and sometimes it isn't. The book has its ups and downs.	2002-02-04
1731615:US	49355567	RB6DNVRFH1446	0515131113	723913230	Season of Storms	Books	3	10	11	N	Y	A SEASON OF STORMS AND NARY A RAINDROP...	This is a somewhat tepid book by this award winning author. Perhaps because her other novels are so terrific, this one pales in comparison. While well written, it moves along at a ponderous pace, a lull before the storm that never quite arrives.<br />The author weaves two stories in one. One is about a turn of the century actress, Celia Sands, who mysteriously disappeared, during a torrid affair with her wealthy, married Italian lover, who wrote a play for her. She never had an opportunity to perform the leading role in her lover's masterpiece, however, due to her untimely disappearance. The main story line is about a present day actress of the same name, though no relation, who is called upon to play the role the first Celia Sands was unable to play.<br />For this role, Ms. Sands is brought to a villa in Italy, which was once the home of the playwright and now belongs to his  grandson, Alex. While there, Celia realizes that there are some strange goings on, but does not know why. All soon becomes clear, though it takes many pages for everything to fall into place. There is really nothing too mysterious in this mildly suspenseful novel.<br />Those who have read the author's other novels may be mildly disappointed. Newcomers to this author may enjoy it more. Nonetheless, it is still a well written, though somewhat tepid and belabored, novel.	2001-12-15
1740765:US	49355567	R3JLKJZBL49PP0	0451402103	992416414	Bitter Blood: A True Story of Southern Family Pride, Madness, and Multiple Murder (Onyx)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	YOU CAN'T MAKE THIS STUFF UP...	This is about as engrossing a true crime book as one can get. Well researched and compellingly written, it tracks the story of three families whose lives intertwine only to culminate in boodshed. It is a story that will enthrall the reader, as well as tug at the reader's heartstrings, because of the tragic familial implications.<br />At the heart of the horror that this book reveals is a beautiful southern belle, Susie Sharp Newsom Lynch, who together with her first cousin and lover, Fritz Klenner, the mentally unbalanced son of a prominent doctor, goes on to be involved in unspeakable acts. It is a riveting book that will keep the reader turning the pages and is one of the best books in the true crime genre.	2001-12-08
1741038:US	49355567	R1MA6U4PH27WZF	0312916418	497506801	Great Balls of Fire: The Uncensored Story of Jerry Lee Lewis	Books	4	3	6	N	N	WHOLE LOTTA SHAKIN' GOIN' ON...	Entertaining biography of rock and roller Jerry Lee Lewis. It details his rise from the poverty of rural Louisiana to become a rock and roll legend. Told by his wife of thirteen years, Myra Lewis, the book recounts an insider's view of those early days of rock and roll and of the rise of Jerry Lee Lewis in the annals of rock and roll.<br />Jerry grew up with his first cousin, Jimmy Lee Swaggart, who in his own right achieved a measure of notoriety, as a prominent preacher and televangelist. Lewis, however, a music lover from early childhood, wanted nothing more than to be a piano playing musician. A backwoods good ole boy, he shocked the country with his antics, topping it all off with his marriage to his thirteen year old cousin, Myra, an act which brought him unwelcome notoriety.<br />Known for his high energy performances, Jerry Lee Lewis lived hard, played hard, and worked hard at his music. His was a life of which legends are made. This book is an enjoyable, no holds barred narrative of that life.	2001-12-08
1759084:US	49355567	R25L3JQQQYVIUW	044102226X	661477001	All This and Heaven Too	Books	5	47	48	N	Y	AN AMAZING STORY ABOUT A WOMAN WHO ROCKED A NATION...	This is a well written fictionalization of the life of Henriette Deluzy-Desportes, who happens to be the author's great aunt by marriage. In her day, Ms. Deluzy-Desportes was the most notorious woman in France. This is her story, the story of a notorious governess who would leave France under a cloud and emerge triumphant in America.<br />The author recounts a drama and scandal that beset France in the midst of the nineteenth century. It revolved around the household of the Duc and Duchesse de Praslin, the family who had engaged the services of Ms. Deluzy-Desportes as governess to their young children. Once esconced in the household, she quickly realized that there was a problem between the Duc and Duchesse de Praslin. The Duchess, an impetuous and passionate woman of Corsican descent, was slightly unhinged, perhaps by madness and her passion for the Duc, who clearly was no longer interested in her in the way in which she wished.<br />Ms. Deluzy-Desportes and the Duc developed a close, though platonic, relationship, because of their mutual interest in the Praslin children, an interest which the Duchesse did not seem to share. She perceived their closeness as a threat and her jealousy knew no bounds. The Duc and Ms. Deluzy-Desportes did not, however, always act circumspectly, and the gossips of France had a field day, attributing to them an affair that had no basis, in fact. This gossip added to the already existing tension in the Praslin household, which was a seething cauldron of emotions, until the day would come when Ms. Deluzy-Desportes would be dismissed with a promise of a letter of recommendation from the Duchesse. When the promised letter never came, the Duc was outraged by the perfidy of the Duchesse. Shortly thereafter, the Duchesse met with a tragic end, and the Duc and governess were under suspicion of murder.<br />What happens to each of them makes for a gripping narrative. The tragic circumstances with which Ms. Deluzy-Deportes met made her one of the most hated women in France. When her life in France became impossible, like many others she sought refuge in the new world. What was to happen to her in America had the makings of a fairytale. Her life would never be the same. This is a beautifully written story about a woman beset by the vicissitudes of life, but who emerged triumphant when all was said and done. It makes for a marvelous and fascinating story that will keep the reader riveted to the pages.most hated women in France. When her life in France became impossible, like many others she sought refuge in the new world. What was to happen to her in America had the makings of a fairytale. Her life would never be the same. This is a beautifully written story about a woman beset by the vicissitudes of life, but who emerged triumphant when all was said and done. It makes for a marvelous and fascinating story that will keep the reader riveted to the pages.	2001-11-25
1759914:US	49355567	RQKY7IWQN46BW	0445402156	351886536	The Black Camel	Books	5	10	10	N	N	CHARLIE CHAN ROCKS!!!	Silver screen goddess, Sheila Fane, has a secret that weighs heavily on her heart. It is a secret that makes her reluctant to marry again, though she has just received such a proposal.  While in Honolulu for some location shots for her current film, she consults with Tarneverro, fortuneteller to the stars, as to what she should do. He wrests her deepest, darkest secret from her and advises her not to marry. Shortly thereafter, Hollywood's brightest flame is snuffed out, a cruel knife thrust ending Ms. Fane's life.<br /><br />Enter revered Honolulu police inspector, Charlie Chan, who is called upon to solve this baffling murder case. In his own inscrutable and unhurried way, Inspector Chan slowly, but surely, makes mincemeat of those who would dare to lie to him. To solve this case, however, he must delve into Ms. Fane's past and discover the secret that gave her so much unrest. He finds that is is tied to an unsolved murder that had occurred in Hollywood several years prior. Inspector Chan ultimately puts both matters to rest.<br /><br />Charlie Chan is one of the best fictional detectives ever created. Highly intelligent and seemingly droll, he slowly but surely solves his cases. Father to eleven children, all of whom drive him a little crazy with their American slang, he is an eminently respected detective, who has solved many high profile cases. It is amazing that, though written during the nineteen twenties and thirties, these mysteries are as fresh today, as when they were first written. While they may lack some of the political correctness of today, they are still gems. Well written and highly entertaining, the entire Charlie Chan series deserves to be reissued by some wily publisher.	2001-11-24
1763090:US	49355567	R2LZQLXBUHW17A	0394485289	534393833	Harvest Home	Books	5	22	25	N	N	OUTSTANDING GOTHIC CHILLER...	This is an exceptionally well written chiller. It takes place in Cornwall Coombe, a seemingly bucolic little hamlet in New England. It is to this idyllic locale that Ned Constantine, his wife, Beth, and their teenage daughter, Kate, move.<br />Ned had quit his job as an advertising executive in New York City and was now a professional artist, having established a studio in which to paint on his newly purchased property. In love with the three hundred year old house that they had unexpectedly been able to purchase, he and his family settled down to what he hoped would be a tranquil existence.<br />Alas, this was not to be. The town's very being revolved around ancient rituals dictated by the corn crop, and the town's ways were old ways. Its bucolic setting was deceptive, as there existed a malignancy that was becoming all too apparent to Ned. It was a feeling, however, that neither his wife nor daughter shared.<br />Cornwall Coombe was a town seemingly controlled by the Widow Fortune, an old woman with a knack for healing. The town had a secret, and its insular townspeople were all in on it. Ned was determined to discover what that secret was, even if it were to his detriment. He ultimately finds that some secrets are best left undiscovered.<br />This is a beautifully written book, almost lyrical in the telling. The author has a distinct gift for storytelling, and the tale that he weaves is spellbinding, as well as chilling. It is a tale that is sure to keep the reader riveted.	2001-11-21
1764188:US	49355567	R2VIF5YC5Q3O43	0380598655	767521412	My Brother's Keeper	Books	5	63	64	N	N	A HAUNTING AND TRAGIC STORY...	Two elderly brothers, Seymour and Randall Holt, are found dead in their rundown, squalid brownstone in the neighborhood of Chelsea in New York City. This book reconstructs their lives and explains how it came about that they met such an ignominious end.<br /><br />Raised in that very brownstone in a turn of the century household run by their wealthy, twisted, and domineering grandmother, who eventually drove their mother to madness, they grew up in an environment that was not conducive to happiness. It was an upbringing that was to have great repercussions on their lives.<br /><br />Both of the brothers were very handsome and intelligent. Seymour was the older and more aggressive and resourceful of the two, while Randall was sensitive and artistic, being a gifted pianist. Both looked forward to the death of their grandmother, whom they hated. They looked forward to departing from that house and living elsewhere, leaving behind very painful memories. When their grandmother finally died at a very ripe old age, however, she tied up her estate in such a way that she would still control them from the grave. Their leaving the now hated  brownstone was not an option.<br /><br />For a while after her death, it seemed that these young men would end up leading normal lives. The life that they had lived with their grandmother, however, had, unfortunately, left its mark. This would be made remarkably clear in the way in which they interacted with others. Yet, they each went on their way, trying to fit in the best way they knew how. For a while, it seemed that they would almost succeed. Their own natures, coupled with their upbringing and the general vicissitudes of life, however, would conspire to ensure that they would not.<br /><br />If one ever wondered how people could live such bizarre lives that they would end up with their homes filled with trash, refuse, filth, and disorder, this book will give one a birds-eye view as to how this could happen. This lyrically written novel is a spellbinding account of how two promising lives could meet such a tragic end. It is sure to keep the reader riveted and turning the pages. It is simply a terrific book!el is a spellbinding account of how two promising lives could meet such a tragic end. It is sure to keep the reader riveted and turning the pages. It is simply a terrific book!	2001-11-20
1796127:US	49355567	R24KEE4YICAOG6	042518109X	567976695	Whispers	Books	4	47	56	N	N	HEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE'S BAAAAACK...!!!	This is a highly suspenseful book, written in clear, spare prose. It is an easy read and a definite page turner. It is a plot driven book, however, with little character development.<br />The plot itself is simple. A beautiful screenwriter, Hilary Thomas, is confronted in her own home by an intruder named Bruno Frye. It seems that Mr. Frye has been stalking Ms. Thomas in the belief that Ms. Thomas is his long deceased mother, Katherine, who has ostensibly come back from the dead in order to kill him. He feels that he must kill her, before she kills him.<br />Of course, Ms. Thomas has no clue as to why Frye has singled her out. She is aware only of his murderous intent, and she is afraid, very afraid. On Frye's first go around with Ms. Thomas, she survives. On the second go around, Frye does not. Thinking herself to be safe, as Frye has seemingly gone to his maker, she is shocked when he, yet again, confronts her with deadly intent.<br />Why this is happening and how, will certainly keep the reader turning the pages. Some of it is predictable, but it, nonetheless, makes for an absorbing, easy read. This is one of the author's better, early efforts. Readers who enjoy suspenseful novels will not be disappointed.	2001-10-25
1820826:US	49355567	R1RVUOAJEUHZJM	0892560134	546382328	The messenger	Books	5	1	1	N	N	EERIE AND SUSPENSEFUL...	This is a well written and haunting tale of suspense. Eerie and compelling, the book weaves a story that is sure to capture the reader's imagination.<br /><br />Husband and wife hoteliers, Brad and Cynthia, have just bought  a six acre island off the coast of Maine, which is central to the story. There, they hold a gatheering of the proverbial, familial clan. Aware that the townspeople from the village closest to the island believe that there is something strange about the island, Brad and Gert attempt to dispel any concerns that the family may have, as they discuss their plans for turning the island into a luxury resort. The island is deserted, except for one couple who has been living there since nineteen twenty six, the year that a meteor hit the island, causing the other inhabitants to flee under mysterious circumstances.<br /><br />The family gathers, ten men, women and children, some of whom bring their own secret with them, while the island harbors one of its own. The island, you see, is a very special place with a gift of its own to make, provided that there is that special person willing to receive such a gift. Read this book to find out just what is going on. It will be well worth the trouble.	2001-10-03
1823678:US	49355567	R3B5V1CUYKCUDK	0917657594	267763908	Prisoner of Sex	Books	1	18	53	N	N	OVERRATED  SELF-INDULGENT POLEMIC...	This book, wriiten when the women's liberation movement was still in  its nascent stage, is a reponse to some of the writings of the movement's leaders, in particular, Germaine Greer, Kate Millet, Betty Friedan, and Gloria Steinem. While the author makes some valid points (I agree, political correctness does tend to have a chilling effect and censorship is to be avoided.), it is nothing more than an overrated, pretentious, self-indulgent polemic. His response to the writings of feminist intellectuals is over the top, treating their writings as mere diatribes, rather than as the cutting edge views of a segment of society that was rising up to be heard and reckoned with.  Women were, indeed, the prisoner of sex, before the feminist movement loosened societal restrictions on women. Men, too, were prisoners of sex, but it was they, who were the wardens and jailers of those prisons. They were the ones who set the ground rules. The feminist movement merely ponted this out.<br />Moreoever, Mailer's views are often put forth in a rambling, stream of consciousness fashion, ponderous and pedantic, and often incoherent, so puffed up with self importance is the writer in his ostensible defense of the male sex. He misreads the feminist movement, thinking it to be an attack on manhood, his, in particular, when all it really was calling for was the full inclusion of women in society. Were it not for the feminist movement, women of today would still be very limited in terms of opportunities to be all that they could be, constrained by their sex. One should be mindful, however, that while women may have come a long way, they still have a way to go. There are, unfortunately, still a lot of Mailer types out there. Like  the dinosaur, however, they will one day cease to exist.	2001-09-30
1823744:US	49355567	R34HZTOLYSVKVO	0515124036	140444396	A Love Through Time (Time Passages)	Books	5	18	21	N	N	A TIME TRAVEL TALE THAT TANTALIZES...	This is an interesting debut novel and a welcome addition to the time travel genre. It is a well told tale that evokes another time, long ago. It is also a tale of love.<br />Two people from New Jersey, each on the run from a broken romance, go to Scotland. Maggie Hobbs is there on vacation. Alex MacKendiman is accompanying his aunt to a gathering  of his clan near Dunnedin, Scotland. Maggie and Alex meet at the clan gathering. They also meet a mysterious stranger, Mairi, who pushes them through a portal in time. Before they know it, they are in a medieval Scotland of six hundred years ago.<br />As luck would have it, Alex is the doppelganger of a long ago ancester of the same name. It appears that his ancestral namesake has been visiting in England for some time. When Alex and Maggie arrive in medieval Scotland, he is mistaken for his returning ancester, who also happens to be the laird's son. Maggie is taken to be his leman, as Alex has been betrothed to Anice, daughter of the head of the MacNab clan.<br />From here on in, their adventures fly fast and furious, as Alex and Maggie struggle to fit it and get the lay of the land in order to survive, until they can figure out a way to return to the present. There are many pitfalls to avoid and many customs to adopt in order to make their trek through time a safe one. In the process, they fall in love.<br />What happens to Alex and Maggie is entertaining and interesting, as they traverse a veritable minefield of differences between past and present. It is only through their growing love, however, that they will find the link necessary to effect a return to their time. Will they make it? Read this book and find out. You will not be disappointed.	2001-09-30
1824593:US	49355567	R1JD0E2AVXTHYS	0812522370	230034308	Jumper: A Novel	Books	4	6	10	N	Y	A MOST EXCELLENT ADVENTURE...	David Rice is a highly intelligent, well read, seventeen year old boy, who has been physically and verbally abused by his father for years. Abandoned by his mother, Mary, when he was twelve, because David's father, her husband, also battered her, David decides that he cannot take any more abuse. In a moment of great personal angst, he discovers that he can teleport himself to a safe place. So, begins a new life for David and a most excellent adventure for the reader.<br />David, to his own amazement, can teleport, but there there is a method to the madness, which he soon discovers. His new ability, however, enables him to not have to return home. He, instead, starts a new life for himself, one which the reader will enjoy sharing, as his new found ability, which he calls &quot;jumping&quot;, leads to many interesting situations. Some of the situations in which he gets involved turn him into an unusual sort of super hero. Inventive and absorbing, this is a very special coming of age story that will keep the reader turning the pages.<br />The only problem with the book is that many of David's initial problems, while on his own, arise out of his lack of a social security number. This is a highly unlikely case scenario, because David would have needed a social security number for some of the standardized tests a student is required to take, as the social security number would act as the student's identification number. Moreover, his father would have needed David's social security number in order to claim him as a deduction on his income tax return. This is, however, the only false note in this otherwise totally delightful tale of a young man with powers of teleportation and the ways in which he puts his ability to use.	2001-09-29
1825883:US	49355567	R13MRGZ1FKZ6QM	0380723573	536958808	Green River Rising	Books	3	3	4	N	N	RAW AND GRITTY PRISON THRILLER...	This is an intriguing debut novel, set in a prison. Written as a thriller, it is slightly uneven and, at times, implausible. Still, it grips the reader's imagination with its savage, relentless violence and raw and gritty language. It is definitely not for the squeamish, as there is a good deal of carnage and foul language interspersed throughout the book. It is, most certainly, an acquired taste. If you enjoy the acclaimed HBO television series, \\"Oz\\", you will probably enjoy this book.<br /><br />The drama takes place in a Texas prison called Green River State Penitentiary. The atmosphere is tense, and the prisoners are grouped along racially divided lines. The prison is run by Warden Hobbes, an intelligent, erudite man, who is not wrapped too tight. He sets the stage for a prison uprising that is bloody and violent. There are a few good guys, and a lot of bad guys in this prison. One of the good guys is Ray Klein, a medical doctor who was sent to prison for a rape that he did not commit.<br /><br />Ray works in the prison infirmary while doing his time, and while there, he has made the acquaintance of a visiting doctor, Juliette Devlin. There is a very strong attraction between the two, and it is safe to say that they are falling in love. Unaware of the looming uprising, Ray learns that he is to be paroled the next day. Suddenly, that news is eclipsed, when all hell breaks loose in the prison. The uprising has been started by a sociopathic prisoner, aided by a host of seriously deranged individuals, who are in prison for crimes they actually committed.<br /><br />Unfortunately, Dr. Devlin finds herself stuck in the prison infirmary during the uprising. Her presence becomes known, and she becomes the object of lust for a number of prisoners, most of whom have lacked female companionship for an extended period of time. She locks herself in the infirmary, hoping to keep out the sex starved hordes of prisoners, who are eager to party with her, should they be successful in gaining entry to the infirmary. Ray hears of this and is off to the rescue, no longer content to sit out the riot in his cell, waiting for his parole day to arrive. The problem is that the author opts for self indulgence at this point and gives in to his own male fantasy. He has Dr. Devlin voluntarily have sex with two prisoners, while wild hordes of others are battering down the infirmary door in hopes of making her their girl toy. This is highly implausible and makes the book go on somewhat of a downward spiral. Nonetheless, this is still a solid debut novel.l in gaining entry to the infirmary. Ray hears of this and is off to the rescue, no longer content to sit out the riot in his cell, waiting for his parole day to arrive. The problem is that the author opts for self indulgence at this point and gives in to his own male fantasy. He has Dr. Devlin voluntarily have sex with two prisoners, while wild hordes of others are battering down the infirmary door in hopes of making her their girl toy. This is highly implausible and makes the book go on somewhat of a downward spiral. Nonetheless, this is still a solid debut novel.	2001-09-28
1831398:US	49355567	R1SIBE7MAGDTUM	0340545976	360239407	Warden of the Queen's March (Hiccup)	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	A STUNNING WORK OF HISTORICAL FICTION...	This is historical fiction at its best. A marvelously written book, it captures the essence of a most intriguing part of Scottish history. The narrative is peppered with three dimensional, historical figures, brought vividly to life by a  master storyteller, and the progression of historical events is well crafted, keeping the reader turning the pages.<br />This is the story of Thomas Kerr, a young, Scottish border lord, who from the time he first met Mary, Queen of Scots, became her most devoted and loyal subject. It was to be a life long devotion. It is through his eyes that the reader sees the events and intrigues surrounding Mary's tragic and tumultuous reign unfold, a young ruler beleagured on all sides by the coldly implacable ambitions of the men surrounding her. The reader sees Scottish history in the making from the time of Mary's return to Scottish shores at the age of eighteen, after a fifteen year sojourn in France, until the time of her ignominious departure for England seven years later.<br />The paths of Thomas and Mary were to cross many times throughout those turbulent years of her reign, as men's ambitions would seek to wreak havoc. Thomas Kerr could always be counted upon to provide whatever service would be of assistance to Mary, as well as whatever protection was at his disposal to keep her, as well as her devoted ladies-in-waiting, safe. In the end, however, even he, her most loyal subject, could not stem the tide of the inevitable tragedy that was to befall Mary, some of which was of her own making. His last sight of her was when he bid goodbye to her, as she sailed away from her native Scotland to England, hoping to find safe harbor and help from the wily Queen Elizabeth I.<br />This novel is so steeped in Scottish history and rich detail, so as to leave the reader with a distinct feeling for the past about which the author has written. If one is a lover of historical fiction, with a penchant for Mary, Queen of Scots, then one will really enjoy this book.oy this book.	2001-09-23
1831420:US	49355567	R26VRLLS97F0FK	0688016898	965438626	A Gift of Prophecy: The Phenomenal Jeane Dixon	Books	5	22	24	N	N	SYLVIA BROWNE HAS NOTHING ON JEANE DIXON...	This book tells the story of Jeane Dixon, a devout Catholic, who was probably one of the greatest clairvoyants the world has ever known. She lived most of her adult live in Washington, D.C., to where she moved with her husband at the start of World Was II. There, she became the toast of the town. She made so many accurate predictions that it was mind boggling. Yet, she never asked for money for a reading, as she considered it an act from God. On the other hand, she never had to consider that as an option, as she lived a privileged life, having grown up in a wealthy household in Wisconsin and, later, marrying a very well to do business man.<br />The numbers and accuracy of her predictions are startling. Moreover, many of them were made years in advance of their occurrence. The one that gained the most notoriety was the prediction of President Kennedy's assassination, which is fully discussed in the book. The book also discusses Mrs. Dixon's thoughts on the issue of conspiracy behind the assassination. Given her track record, it is quite an interesting discourse.<br />The author of the book, an investigative reporter and friend of Mrs. Dixon, gives an excellent account of her predictions and, often, the context out of which they arose. She describes how the predictions came about. While many of the predictions involved well known individuals, Mrs. Dixon also made many predictions for people with whom she came into contact in her everyday life. All in all, this is a memorable book about a most remarkable woman who, indeed, had the gift of prophecy.	2001-09-23
1838561:US	49355567	R1QUH7CCP4SECW	158234096X	760752117	Five Mile House: A Novel	Books	4	18	20	N	Y	A BEAUTIFULLY WRITTEN GHOST STORY AND IMPRESSIVE DEBUT NOVEL	This is a well crafted and beautifully written debut novel that is impressive. A modern day ghost story with Gothic underpinnings, it is a page turner, full of suspense and mystery. It is an intelligent ghost story that is as ephemeral, as it is gripping.<br /><br />The story revolves around a married female detective, Leslie Stone, who lives with her husband, Greg, and her two young daughters, Molly and Emma. One morning, Leslie goes to work on a particularly brutal child homicide. A perpetrator is in custody, and when Leslie goes to interview him, she snaps and metes out a form of vigilante justice that is final and irrevocable. Arrested, charged with murder, and tried, she is found not guilty by reason of temporary insanity. Confined for months to a mental hospital, she is finally released.<br /><br />Her husband, a building contractor, having anticipated the  notoriety attendant with is wife's release, gets a job that enables them to move to a new place and get a fresh start, or so he thinks. They move to the small New England town of Wellington, where he is able to obtain his dream job, the restoration of an unusual house named Five Mile House. The catch here is that Five Mile House has had its own share of notoriety. A century ago, a woman, Eleanor Bly, killed her children, then herself in that house. Moreover, it is located in a town riddled with witches, adherents to the ancient Wiccan religion.<br /><br />Leslie, a detective down to her very soul, soon discovers that she is Eleanor Bly's doppelganger, and that the dream job her husband got was not by chance. Moreover, she senses that there is something about the house that is evil. The past soon begins to collide with the present, as Eleanor reaches out to Leslie to try and set the record straight about what really happened at Five Mile House all those years ago. What she reveals, bit by bit, will keep the reader turning the pages.<br /><br />It is only at the end that the auther stumbles a bit, as she tries to bring closure to her story. It is still, however, a debut novel to remember.s to bring closure to her story. It is still, however, a debut novel to remember.	2001-09-16
1840283:US	49355567	R698NCZRSLOGL	0380978091	838030657	The House of Gentle Men	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A MOST INTRIGUING DEBUT NOVEL...	Once upon a time, there lived in Louisiana a young virgin of sixteen named Charlotte, who believed in love, hope, marriage, and the American dream. One day, she ventured into the woods and met the big, bad wolf in the guise of three soldiers who, going off to fight World War II, take this opportunity to slake their lust upon her, and having sated their collective desire, leave her there, a virgin no more. Now mute from the horror of her experience, she gives birth to a baby boy nine months later whom she abandons on a rock in those same woods.<br />Now in those very same woods existed a house, known as The House of Gentle Men, where men, who had done some grievous wrong to a woman, lived to expiate their sins by servicing those women who had been hurt in some way by men. There, they would kiss, fondle, and listen to these woman, but would never slake their lust upon them. In this way, through tenderness, they would atone for their sins.<br />Some years later, when peace had returned to the land, the mute Charlotte ventures into The House of Gentle Men. Unbeknownst to her, a former soldier now lives there, looking for redemption. He is there to expiate his sin, and Charlotte is there to find comfort. What they both discover will transform their lives.<br />This is an amazing debut novel by the author. An adult fable, it is written with a clarity and lyricism of prose that captivates the reader. Idiosyncratic and quirky, therein lies its charm. I guarantee that the reader has never read a novel conceptually like this one. It is simply a terrific book that stays with the reader long after the reader has turned the last page.	2001-09-14
1840593:US	49355567	RYAX6BZRWPOW9	0399148019	723229047	The Absence of Nectar	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A  MASTERFUL AND COMPELLING TRIUMPH...	This is an unusual and engrossing page turner of a novel, beautifully and deftly written. In this, her second novel, the author sustains the quality of writing found in her amazing first book, &quot;The House of Gentle Men&quot;. Those readers, who have read and enjoyed the author's first novel, will certainly love this book. I know I did.<br />&quot;The Absence of Nectar&quot; is a well crafted thriller, as well as an unusual coming of age novel. The author, a masterful storyteller, is highly adept at building suspense. This book will certainly keep the discerning reader turning its pages.<br />The story involves a precocious eleven year old girl, Alice Fendar, and her brother, Boone, who is two years older than his sister. He has an unusual pen pal, Persely Snow, a teen age girl who was committed to a mental hospital for allegedly trying to kill both her parents and succeeding in killing one. Persely has become a local folk hero, because of her legendary escapes from confinement, and Boone fancies himself in love with her.<br />Alice and Boone live with their mother, Meg, after their father abandoned the family over another woman. The mother eventually meets another man, Simon Jester, when he saves her from drowning, while she is swimming with her children. He later tells her that he is a widower, having lost his wife and three year old child in a drowning accident. She is swept off her feet by him, and they marry.<br />For some reason, the sassy and intelligent Alice does not take to her new step-father. Something about him, to her mind, is just not right. She scoffs at his assertion that he is a widower who lost his wife and three year old child in a drowning accident. In fact, she feels that there is something about him that seems to be downright evil. As time passes, Simon begins to reveal more and more of his true nature, and it appears that Alice just may be onto something, after all. Meanwhile, Boone is oblivious to all but his obsession with Persely Snow.<br />Alice, herself, falls prey to an obsession. She becomes convinced that Simon is trying to kill her and Boone. Her brother finds that the easiest course to take is that of the path of least resistance, and so he falls in with Alice in her schemes to thwart Simon. At times, the book is terribly funny, at other times, achingly sad. The events set into motion one night will reveal to the reader what is really going on. It will also reveal the role that Persely Snow ultimately plays in all their lives. It is a role that rises to almost mythic stature.<br />This lyrically written book is strangely compelling, quirky, and riveting, holding the reader in its thrall. It is a stunning and triumphant tour de force by the author.br />Alice, herself, falls prey to an obsession. She becomes convinced that Simon is trying to kill her and Boone. Her brother finds that the easiest course to take is that of the path of least resistance, and so he falls in with Alice in her schemes to thwart Simon. At times, the book is terribly funny, at other times, achingly sad. The events set into motion one night will reveal to the reader what is really going on. It will also reveal the role that Persely Snow ultimately plays in all their lives. It is a role that rises to almost mythic stature.<br />This lyrically written book is strangely compelling, quirky, and riveting, holding the reader in its thrall. It is a stunning and triumphant tour de force by the author.	2001-09-13
1840773:US	49355567	R10NKNL1ZJZRJ7	0670891576	624836488	In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	A WHALE OF A TALE...	This is a first rate, well crafted work of non-fiction. The author has a gift for putting together a compelling narrative about the unusual ordeal of the whale ship, Essex, which sailed out of Nantucket and was done in on the high seas by an extremely aggressive sperm whale who attacked it. So complete was the damage that the ship sank, its crew of twenty cast adrift upon a seemingly infinite ocean to find their way back home in three small boats. This real life, unheard of attack by a whale was the basis for Herman Melville's classic work of fiction, \\"Moby Dick\\".<br /><br />What the author does is ground what happened to these most unfortunate of men in the historical context of the time. He paints a picture of the milieu in which they lived. Their lives were governed entirely by the whaling industry that was the bread and butter for Nantucket Island, the whaling capital of the world.<br /><br />Drawing upon narratives by some of the survivors, as well as other historical data, he paints in intricate detail what life must have been like for these men. He weaves a tapestry of early nineteenth century life on the island of Nantucket and the preeminence of whaling in the lives of those who lived there, as well as the role of the Quakers. In essence, he brings the men, who were involved in this most notorious of survival at sea stories, to life for the reader.<br /><br />It is a balanced narrative. This was to be the first voyage as Captain for the democratic George Pollard, who was teamed up with a very aggressive and ambitious first mate, Owen Chase. This was later to prove to be a poor combination. Nearly a third of the crew was African-American, which was an interesting twist, arising out of the abolitionist views of the Quakers, whose views were the mainstay of Nantucket. Most of the crew was very young, the cabin boy, Thomas Nickerson, being but fourteen years of age.<br /><br />When the Essex was attacked while on the high seas by a gigantic, aggressive sperm whale and destroyed in the process, the story of the what happened to the crew makes for one of the most engrossing and amazing stories of survival ever to be told. Against the odds, eight of them survived their ordeal, which lasted for months. Dehydration and starvation were to drive them to  a new frontier of human behavior. That threshold, however, once crossed, was one that would forever haunt those who survived. Their agonizing journey and foray into anthropophagy is chillingly chronicled.<br /><br />This is a riveting and triumphant book. It is a tale richly told by a masterful storyteller, who is able to make this work of non-fiction come to life for the reader. This is simply a great book.ale and destroyed in the process, the story of the what happened to the crew makes for one of the most engrossing and amazing stories of survival ever to be told. Against the odds, eight of them survived their ordeal, which lasted for months. Dehydration and starvation were to drive them to  a new frontier of human behavior. That threshold, however, once crossed, was one that would forever haunt those who survived. Their agonizing journey and foray into anthropophagy is chillingly chronicled.<br /><br />This is a riveting and triumphant book. It is a tale richly told by a masterful storyteller, who is able to make this work of non-fiction come to life for the reader. This is simply a great book.	2001-09-13
1844877:US	49355567	R1PZBAAKTZUXMP	0786868619	719432164	Stolen Lives: Twenty Years in a Desert Jail (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	2	33	46	N	Y	A POORLY WRITTEN AND POORLY EDITED...	This is a book that on its face held a lot of promise. Any story in which a mother and her children, as well as faithful family retainers, are unjustly imprisoned in squalid conditions for twenty years for an ostensible crime committed by the familial patriarch would certainly be of interest. Wrong! This is a tepid and disappointing book, poorly written and, most certainly, poorly edited. It is so filled with contradictions and inconsistencies, as to create somewhat of a credibility gap for the reader.<br /><br />The story revolves around the Oufkir family, who were, at one time, a prominent, highly respected, and well known Moroccan family. Their story is told by Malika Oufkir, who is the eldest daughter of the late General Oufkir, who was executed in August 1972, immediately following an aborted attempt to assassinate King Hassan II of Morocco, for whom he was the Minister of Defense. General's Oufkir's treasonous action was the catalyst for the tragic turn of events that were to engulf his family.<br /><br />After the aborted coup, the General's immediate family was placed under house arrest and four months later, along with two loyal family retainers who volunteered to share their fate, were whisked away to the first of several desert prisons that were to house them for the next fifteen years.<br /><br />As Malika tells it, hers was initially almost a fairy tale story. Brought up in luxurious surroundings, she suffered early heartbreak when, at the age of five, she was separated from her family and \\"adopted\\" by then King Muhammad V, so as to be a live in playmate for the King's daughter. This adoption is never really explained, and one has no idea what her parents thoughts were on this issue. Malika lived in the Palace in the lap of luxury for many years. As a teenager, however, she moved back with her family, where, there too, she continued to live a very privileged life, steeped in luxury and money.<br /><br />After the Oufkirs' circumstances changed, theirs is truly a tragic story. There is little doubt that the conditions in their desert prisons were deplorable and squalid. With inadequate sanitation, insufficient food, no medical care, or educational provisions, the family was truly living a life of privation. Cutoff from the outside world, as they were, they truly were disenfranchised.<br /><br />Their escape from their last desert prison, an escape which brought their plight to the consciousness of the public, was amazing. But for their escape, there is no doubt in my mind that they would still be languishing in a desert prison today, barely alive, if not already dead. I salute their determination and ingenuity in making a desperate break for freedom.<br /><br />The problem lies in the telling of the story, which is so poorly told. Many things are left unexplained. No effort is made to ground the events that led to their family's downfall in a historical context. Whatever Malika said seems to have been what went into the final draft of this book, even if she contradicted herself a page or two later, which is the main problem with the book. There are so many inconsistencies with what Malika herself says, that the discerning reader is left to question much of what she represents.<br /><br />Malika comes across as a somewhat self-absorbed, vapid woman to whom fate dealt a harsh and unusually cruel hand. Her self-absorption is most evident in that she barely acknowledges the sacrifice of the two faithful family retainers, who voluntarily shared their fate, nor does she discuss the impact that this had on them. It is also a little disconcerting that more does not come through about the perceptions the other family members had about this hellish experience. Their insight might have provided a little more balance and interest to the narrative. In the hands of a good writer and excellent editor, this book might have withstood scrutiny and met expectations.<br /><br />Sorry, Oprah, your book club selections are usually excellent. This one fails to make the grade.lent. This one fails to make the grade.	2001-09-09
1848027:US	49355567	R2VF9VLX5C7MAX	0451155068	986134010	Kiss Mommy Goodbye	Books	5	35	35	N	N	SUPERLATIVE AND SUSPENSEFUL...	This is a well written novel of suspense. The plot is expertly crafted and well nuanced, keeping the reader turning the pages. With dialogue that rings true, it makes for a riveting read.<br />The story revolves around a young woman, Donna Edmunds, who works for an advertising agency. She meets a very handsome man, Victor Cressy, at a company party, and he wines and dines her in dramatic fashion, sweeping her off her feet. Finding him to be a fantastic and attentive lover, as well, he is the man of her dreams. When he proposes two months later, she accepts, thinking that she has died and gone to heaven. What she does not know is that she in on her way to living a hell on earth. You see, Victor Cressy is a sociopath.<br />At first, the change in Victor and their relationship was imperceptible. It began subtly with a question here, a question there, a suggestion here, a suggestion there. It then escalated to demands that had to be met, assertions of imagined slights, rules that had to be obeyed. Victor separated Donna from her old friends and family, until her isolation was total. It finally culminated in a control so complete that Donna, as a person in her own right, no longer existed. The cycle of extreme and profound psychological abuse had attained its goal. The old Donna was merely a memory, as the new Donna was too afraid to say anything, do anything, or opine on anything. Instead, a Stepford wife with two children had replaced her.<br />In reality, Donna was a woman on the edge of a nervous breakdown, an enigma to all who would meet her, asserting herself in bizarre ways which were only a cry for help . One day, Donna meets a man who recognizes her profound despair and treats her as a human being. She begins an affair with him, which enables her to reach deep into herself and come to terms with her life and her marriage. She asks Victor for a divorce and custody of the children.<br />The court scenes for the ensuing divorce and custody action are wonderfully drawn, as they are the setting for explaining the deterioration of the marriage. The points of truths in their respective accounts are told from different perspectives in a three dimensional, well fleshed narrative that is tautly drawn. One gets a very definite sense of the psychological horror of the marriage and the reason for Donna's almost total annihilation of self.<br />The divorce is granted, but she retains custody of the children. Donna soon finds out that even though she won, she lost, just as Victor had promised. Five months after the divorce, with the visitation arrangements in place, all had been going smoothly. Victor seemed to have adjusted to the situation and, when they met, treated her with civility. One weekend, he picked up the children, as usual, and admonished them to kiss their mother goodbye. It was not until they failed to return as promised, that she realized the import of his admonishment. Victor had merely lulled her into a false sense of complacency. In reality, her nightmare was far from over and was, in fact, just beginning.awn, as they are the setting for explaining the deterioration of the marriage. The points of truths in their respective accounts are told from different perspectives in a three dimensional, well fleshed narrative that is tautly drawn. One gets a very definite sense of the psychological horror of the marriage and the reason for Donna's almost total annihilation of self.<br />The divorce is granted, but she retains custody of the children. Donna soon finds out that even though she won, she lost, just as Victor had promised. Five months after the divorce, with the visitation arrangements in place, all had been going smoothly. Victor seemed to have adjusted to the situation and, when they met, treated her with civility. One weekend, he picked up the children, as usual, and admonished them to kiss their mother goodbye. It was not until they failed to return as promised, that she realized the import of his admonishment. Victor had merely lulled her into a false sense of complacency. In reality, her nightmare was far from over and was, in fact, just beginning.	2001-09-06
1848836:US	49355567	R3BBNMSM43TZ9N	067149970X	653176227	Cops: Their Lives in Their Own Words	Books	3	7	9	N	N	NOT  FOR  COPS ONLY...	This is a book about cops, for cops, and by cops. The author has done an excellent job of organizing their stories about what it means be a member of the blue team. There are over a hundred such accounts compiled, and each one has a ring of authenticity, colored by a layer of humor and cynicism that goes often goes with the territoty. The often raw and gritty language, coupled with their vividly described experiences, gives the reader a birdseye view of the underbelly of the beast.<br /><br />The only problem with the book is that policing has undergone a substantial change in the past several years, which is, of course, not reflected in this book, as it was published in 1985. Read in that context, the book is somewhat anachronistic. Still, it is one that will be enjoyed by those with a penchant for police war stories. If you are an avid cop buff, add one star to my rating.	2001-09-05
1849021:US	49355567	R34L06MFWP7O87	0672507277	356542146	Katie Mulholland: A Novel.	Books	5	20	21	N	N	FROM RAGS TO RICHES...	This well crafted novel by a master storyteller weaves the spellbinding tale of beautiful Katie Mulholland, who began life  as the daughter of a miner. The life of a miner in class conscious, mid nineteenth century England was fraught with poverty, and Katie was forced to go into service at a tender age in order to help her family. Her story begins in 1860 which, at the age of fifteen, finds her working long, hard hours in a manor house, as a scullery maid for the Rosier family, who are members of the local gentry and owners of the mine for which her father works.<br />Due to her beauty she, unfortunately, catches the eye of her employer's handsome and evil son, Bernard Rosier, the heir to the Rosier Mining Company. All, however, goes well, until one night Bernard decides to slake his lust upon the unwilling and shocked Katie. It would be the beginning of a hateful obsession with Katie that would cast a long shadow and haunt both their lives.<br />Bernard's unspeakable act is the catalyst for a series of events, some quite shocking, that would ultimately have far reaching impact on the entire Mulholland family. Heavy with child, Katie is dismissed by her employer and gulled into a loveless marriage with William Bunting, the manager of the Rosier mines. Katie gives birth to a daughter, whom she names Sarah. After the birth, Bunting's cruelty to Katie goes into full swing. A murder, which would release her from the bonds of marriage, soon follows. This event, however, leads to a travesty of justice that would take the life of one near and dear to Katie.<br />With her remaining family, Katie leaves for greener pastures and begins what is to be a long and hard odyssey to a better life. What happens along life's path to Katie and those whom she loves and love her makes for a riveting story. It is a tale of great sorrow, hope, love, hatred, betrayal, and, ultimately, redemption. What happens to Katie and her progeny is a rags to riches story that will keep the reader turning the pages into the wee hours of the night.ing the pages into the wee hours of the night.	2001-09-05
1849110:US	49355567	R3LYF3QVD2B3NP	0553256696	393857282	The Hiding Place: The Triumphant True Story of Corrie Ten Boom	Books	5	328	334	N	N	INCREDIBLY MOVING  SAGA  OF HEROIC DUTCH FAMILY DURING WW II	This is an absolutely extraordinary book. Never have I read a book in which the spiritual beauty of the author so resonated throughout the story. The purity of heart that manifests itself in this inspiring saga of a heroic, Dutch family in Nazi occupied Holland during World War II is stunningly beautiful.<br /><br />This is the true story of the Ten Boom family who, during the Nazi occupation of The Netherlands, upon seeing what was happening to their Jewish neighbors and friends, asked themselves this age old question \\"If not us,...who; if not now,...when?\\" They answered it, ultimately at great cost.<br /><br />The Ten Booms were devoutly Christian and lived a simple life. The patriarch of the family ran a watch shop that had been in his family for a century. Some of the family members, the author among them, worked there, selling and repairing clocks and watches. They also lived in the house in which the shop was located.<br /><br />When the Nazis occupied their country, the reality of what it meant slowly dawned upon them, as they saw the treatment given to their fellow Dutch citizens of the Jewish faith. Moved by their plight, the author at the age of fifty, together with other members of her family, including their father who was nearly eighty, became active in the Dutch underground.<br /><br />When it became clear to the Ten Booms that Jews were being targeted for deportation and death, they had a false wall constructed in the author's bedroom, thereby creating a secret room. There, they would hide the terrified Jews who were staying with them, in the event of a Nazi raid upon their home.<br /><br />Eventually denounced by someone to the Nazis, the Ten Booms were arrested and their home raided and torn apart by the Gestapo, in their search for the Jews they believed to be hiding there. At the time of the raid, the Ten Boom home was filled to capacity with Jews in hiding. So well concealed was the hidden room that had been created by the erection of the false wall, that these poor, terrified Jews managed to escape detection.<br /><br />The Ten Boom family did not fare so well. It was upon their arrest that they learned first hand of man's inhumanity to man, and their faith was put to a test that they had never dreamt possible. It was faith, however, that sustained the author in what was to be her darkest hour of deepest despair. To find out what happened to the Ten Booms, read this book. It is the story of an incredible family, who had the courage to put their convictions to the test.<br /><br />This book is a masterpiece. The reader is sure to be captivated by the goodness and spiritual beauty contained within its pages.all, that these poor, terrified Jews managed to escape detection.<br /><br />The Ten Boom family did not fare so well. It was upon their arrest that they learned first hand of man's inhumanity to man, and their faith was put to a test that they had never dreamt possible. It was faith, however, that sustained the author in what was to be her darkest hour of deepest despair. To find out what happened to the Ten Booms, read this book. It is the story of an incredible family, who had the courage to put their convictions to the test.<br /><br />This book is a masterpiece. The reader is sure to be captivated by the goodness and spiritual beauty contained within its pages.	2001-09-05
1855630:US	49355567	R8KBL6IRL2GXA	1559211636	559550728	Heraldic Designs (The Treasury of Decorative Art)	Books	2	2	3	N	N	NOT A BOOK FOR READERS...	Those looking for a book on heraldic design, accompanied by text on its historical development and meaning, will be disappointed. While there is some text that accompanies the forty full color plates which are the highlight of this book, it is merely plate specific. Other than the brief introduction that appears at the beginning, there is really nothing substantive for the reader. It is, in essence, a poster book, as it devoid of any meaningful text. If one is a rabid fan of heraldic design, however, then perhaps one should add an additional star to my rating.	2001-08-31
1858182:US	49355567	R26TY17Y3Q8A8V	051512088X	46135796	Rosehaven (Song Series)	Books	2	5	8	N	N	NOT FOR LOVERS OF HISTORICAL FICTION...	This book is not a particularly well written or interesting book. The characters tend to be two dimensional and cartoonish, and the dialogue is often laughable, so contrived is it. While the setting is the thirteenth century, it is not really a historical fiction, but rather, a bawdy romp in the thirteenth century, written more in the style of a romance novel. It is, however, somewhat low in the romance department, unless marital rape qualifies as romance. Though offensive, one should keep in mind that the setting is, after all, the thirteenth century when women were mere chattel and often treated as such.<br /> The plot is basic romance fare. Poor Lord marries fair, rich, young woman, whom he had never before met, at the express wish of her dying, wicked father. Married, the now rich Lord attempts to consummate the marriage, so as to solidify his position, much to his new wife's dismay, who will have none of it. He forces himself upon her and treats her in a degrading fashion. He continues to do this. She continues to find ways of thwarting him and asserting herself. Both parties, being strong willed, come to an impasse. They each go on to have adventures that will ultimately prove that each truly loves the other, and that what was initially forced upon them by circumstances is now their heart's desire.<br /> Lovers of true historical fiction will be disappointed, while romance readers are the more likely audience for this book. If you are a lover of romance novels, add one star to my rating.	2001-08-29
1860011:US	49355567	R35KU7LHZOSSVS	0316525146	18716214	Tally's Corner	Books	5	16	20	N	N	RELEVANT THEN...RELEVANT NOW...	This study of Black streetcorner men by noted anthropologist, Dr. Elliot Liebow, was his doctoral dissertation. It became recognized as one of the more important sociological treatises, at the time it was written; a time during which Blacks or African Americans were still referred to as Negroes. Dr. Liebow's year and a half long study of a group of disaffected Black males, who routinely frequented a streetcorner in Washington, D.C.'s inner city, provided the basis for the dissertation that gave rise to this book. His analysis of this particular societal subculture, in the context of the overall social milieu in which it exists, is still relevant today. While scholarly, the book is written in an engaging conversational tone, which makes for easy reading. This book should be read by all those with an interest in the social sciences.	2001-08-28
1861528:US	49355567	R1NPTT0ADUAYXR	0314465618	2552844	Corrections and Prisoners' Rights (Nutshell series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A VALUABLE AND COMPACT REFERENCE WORK...	This is an excellent compendium of the law on corrections and prisoners' rights. It is certainly a book that no criminal law practitioner should be without, whether the practitioner be a member of the defense bar, the prosecution, or the judiciary. It should also be a must read for anyone working in the field of criminal justice.<br /> The book covers a broad range of topics. It gives an excellent analysis of the sentencing process, as well as a terrific overview of plea bargaining. It discusses the status of pretrial detainers and convicted offenders in terms of loss of their respective rights. The author also addresses the issue of incarceration, as well as prisoners' rights and responsibilities. The book goes on to discuss the role of parole and probation, as well as the restoration of offenders' rights, and the problems that offenders confront upon release. This book provides a concise and worthwhile analysis of all these issues and is well worth having.	2001-08-27
1861530:US	49355567	R3CMQDD97ZCB29	0385008910	871630443	Nethergate	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A VERY ENTERTAINING BOOK...	This is a wonderfully told tale by a masterful storyteller. It should appeal to those who enjoy historical fiction, as well as those who enjoy the novels of Victoria Holt and Catherine Cookson.<br /> After the French Revolution, the very young, beautiful and aristocratic Isabelle de Savigny flees France after the guillotining of her father. She turns to her cousin in England, the imperious and implacably cold Lady Rosaleen, who lives on a beautiful country estate called Nethergate. Expecting to find succor and a respite from her woes, Isabelle instead finds that, as a now poor relation, she is to be shown her place. which is little more than that of a servant, rather than that of an honored guest. She is manipulated by Lady Rosaleen into becoming little more than assistant to Lady Rosaleen's maid, Martha.<br /> Unhappy with her lot and distressed with her treatment, she falls prey to the romantic overtures of Lady Rosaleen's youngest son, Alan, and they fall in love. When Martha discovers their involvement, she promptly reports it to Lady Rosaleen, who has her son recalled for service by his regiment, where he is sent overseas. In the meantime, discovering that Isabelle is pregnant, she arranges for Isabelle to be married to Martha's one armed, boorish brother, George, so that the baby will have a father. They leave for the country where they will be innkeepers. Lady Rosaleen simply tells her household that Isabelle has run away.<br /> There, Isabelle meets Joanna, a woman well trained in the medicinal arts, who ends up helping her in a way that Isabelle could never imagine. After giving birth to a beautiful girl, whom she names Annabelle, and who is the spitting image of Alan, her life is barely worth living at the hands of her abusive husband. The fates and Joanna intervene and provide a way for her to leave the inn and seek a better future without George.<br /> Isabelle turns her energies to providing for her young child, as best she can. She finds herself returning to Nethergate, where she takes charge of a destiny that will one day see her fortunes returned to her through Annabelle. This is the story of Isabelle's struggles to restore to her and her child the life and place in society that Isabelle once knew. It is a story of loss and betrayal, of love and hope. It is an enormously entertaining story and one which the reader will enjoy.ing to Nethergate, where she takes charge of a destiny that will one day see her fortunes returned to her through Annabelle. This is the story of Isabelle's struggles to restore to her and her child the life and place in society that Isabelle once knew. It is a story of loss and betrayal, of love and hope. It is an enormously entertaining story and one which the reader will enjoy.	2001-08-27
1862397:US	49355567	R3BU5SKTA6B43C	0312952716	231403284	A Simple Plan	Books	5	54	61	N	N	MONEY IS INDEED THE ROOT OF ALL EVIL...	This is, without a doubt, an amazing debut novel. It is a modern day morality tale, which sees people's lives change significantly, when they come upon a veritable treasure trove of money. The change is not necessarily for the better, as the reader will discover.<br /> The plot revolves around two, small town brothers, Hank and Jacob Mitchell, who, along with Jacob's friend, Lou, inadvertently come upon a downed plane that is buried in the snow, deep in the woods of a rural area. In that plane is a dead pilot, along with four million dollars in cold, hard cash. All three of them could sure use the money. The question is, what are they going to do about it?<br /> They come up with what they think is a simple plan. They will take the money and just wait and see, not spending it, until the coast seems clear. From the moment they make this decision, life is never the same for any of them. Hank, taking charge of the money for safekeeping, begins to undergo a change that is seemingly uncharacteristic of one who is outwardly so respectable, rational, and benign of countenance.<br /> As the issue of the money begins to divide the three accomplices, greed and betrayal bubble to the surface, to culminate in a series of chilling, cold blooded murders. Meanwhile, Hank, manipulated by his Ma Barker of a wife, Sarah, begins a personal downward spiral, succumbing to an evil so profound, that it will leave the reader open mouthed.<br /> What happens to them all makes for an amazingly powerful and riveting story of psychological suspense. Written in clean, spare prose, this well crafted novel is a riveting page turner that grips the reader from the inception, holding the reader in its thrall until its climactic conclusion. The ending serves to show the reader that what goes around, does, indeed, come around.	2001-08-26
1866572:US	49355567	R3OOCLKX7TDBJ8	0879512237	645761234	A Prayer for Katerina Horovitzova	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A MUST READ STORY OF THE HOLOCAUST...	This is an incredibly chilling and well crafted holocaust story. Twenty, very wealthy, Jewish American men have been rounded up. They are ostensibly being held in anticipation of their exchange for German prisoners of war, held by the American government. The supposed terms for them, however, include the proviso that they must pay for their expenses while they are guests of the Gestapo. They must pay for all expenses necessary for their repatriation. The Americans agree. They choose to believe that this will be done, despite evidence to the contrary. Their need for self-deception is very high, as the alternative is unthinkable.<br />Katerina has joined them, after one of the Americans took pity on her and paid the Germans to include her in their package deal. She, too, is hopeful and patient, watching, waiting...until that one moment when all becomes unmistakably clear, and hope is wrenched from the depths of her innocence. It is then that Katerina is quiet no longer. She chooses a requiem of her own devise.<br />This is a stunning novel in which the experience of the author, who himself spent time in various death camps during World War II, manifests itself in the book in the form of a mood so chilling and diabolical, as to make the reader take pause and wonder at man's inhumanity to man.	2001-08-23
1867338:US	49355567	R198HHKQLR9VBO	0881844195	44256826	The Deceivers	Books	5	42	44	N	Y	ADVENTURE AMIDST AN ANCIENT MURDEROUS CULT...	This is a marvelous novel of adventure based loosely on fact. The book details the Thuggee cult of India, known as The Deceivers. Members of this cult worshipped the goddess, Kali, and were called Thugs. They were known to each other by way of secret phrases and rituals. Thugs were an organized group of professional thieves with a most interesting modus operandi. They would murder innocent travelers by garroting them with a weighted scarf, relieve them of their worldly possessions, and then bury them, so that they would seem to have vanished off the face of the earth. This killer cult flourished for centuries in India, until the British, with the cooperation of the exiting Indian government of the time, decimated their ranks, making them a curious relic of India's colorful past.<br /><br />The events in the book take place in early nineteenth century India, circa 1825. William Savage, a newly married Englishman in charge of the civil administration for a specific Indian district, inadvertently comes across this murderous cult in action and narrowly escapes death at their hands. Subsequently, he investigates, but his efforts prove futile. Savage ultimately decides to infiltrate this cult, disguised as a native of India. He is able to do so with the help of a Thug who has become disenchanted with the cult. It is Savage's intent to garner the requisite information necessary to wipe out this widespread evil society.<br /><br />William Savage, leaving his now pregnant wife, manages to infiltrate a society heretofore unknown to Englishmen. He calls himself Gopal and, under the training of his Thug informant, is able to successfully make the transition. So completely does he immerse himself in the culture and activities of the cult, that he is in danger of losing himself to its tenets. His Thug informant realizes this and, ultimately, sets in motion a series of events that make Savage/Gopal realize the grasp that the cult has exerted upon his mind. What happens to Savage will keep the reader turning the pages of this book.<br /><br />This is a wonderful and unusual adventure story told by a master storyteller. Grounded in a little known, though fascinating, segment of Indian history, this well crafted novel will hold the reader in its thrall.ill keep the reader turning the pages of this book.<br /><br />This is a wonderful and unusual adventure story told by a master storyteller. Grounded in a little known, though fascinating, segment of Indian history, this well crafted novel will hold the reader in its thrall.	2001-08-22
1869702:US	49355567	R99QWHO0L76R3	0316678104	155429542	Fortune's Rocks: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	EVOCATIVE AND PROVOCATIVE...	This is a well crafted and lyrically written narrative, evocative of an era gone by. It tells the story of Olympia Biddeford, the unusually erudite and well educated fifteen year old daughter of a Boston Brahmin. One hot and steamy summer in turn of the century New Hampshire, she falls passionately and utterly in love with her father's friend, forty one year old John Haskell, a physician and man of letters, who has a wife and four children. Captivated by his intelligence and crusade on behalf of exploited mill workers, she and he, drawn to her youth, intelligence and beauty, leave all thought of propriety behind and, breaking every moral and social taboo of the time, enter into a forbidden, illicit love affair, that is ultimately doomed, with cataclysmic ramifications for all whom the affair touches.<br /><br />The book explores how this young woman copes with the loss of her life in a larger social milieu, once the affair enters into the public domain, through the machinations of another. She, the doctor, and their respective families are tainted with scandal and presented with the fruit of that illicit love. The book explores how Olympia must reconstruct the tatters of her life into one in which she is finally able to expiate her youthful indiscretion within the context of the mores of the time. In doing so, she goes on a voyage of self discovery. Yet, through it all, she never once renounces her devotion to the man who introduced her to the throes of a passion so deep and profound that she gave herself over to it, body and soul. How these star crossed lovers finally come to terms with their grand passion is a story which the author seamlessly weaves into a book that will hold the reader in its thrall.	2001-08-20
1871082:US	49355567	R15HWE5EQE1U7X	0156005891	865843112	Eden Close	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A WELL-CRAFTED WORK OF FICTION...	This, the author's debut fiction novel, is a well crafted work that keeps the reader turning its pages. The book is premised upon unfinished business in the past that needs closure, before the future can begin anew. Here, Andrew, a divorced man in his mid thirties, returns home to the upstate New York town in which he grew up, in order to attend his mother's funeral and take care of her estate. Being there, in his childhood home, brings back memories of a night, half a lifetime ago, in which his neighbor's home reverberated with the sound of gunfire, forever changing the life of his childhood friend and neighbor, Eden Close.<br /><br />Adopted by Jim and Edith Close after being left in a box on their doorstep shortly after her birth, Jim lavished love and a great deal of physical affection on Eden, while Edith always remained strangely aloof from this beautiful child whom she seemed to view as an intrusion in their lives. Eden, friends with Andrew while growing up, was blinded in the terrible tragedy which engulfed her home one night and saw Jim Close killed. Withdrawing from the world at large, she remained a virtual recluse in her adoptive mother's home, while Andrew got on with his life, went to college, and left home.<br /><br />In returning for his mother's funeral, Andrew sets about trying to unravel the mystery that has enshrouded Eden since that terrible night. The author gives the reader glimpses into the past through a series of flashbacks, which show the bittersweet relationship that Andrew and Eden had shared when younger, a bond which to this day had remained unbroken. It is this unspoken bond that prompts Andrew to try and bring Eden out of her reclusive state. It is an attempt that is to have great ramifications for all. The author weaves a seamless tapestry that fully engages the reader. It is a haunting and beautifully rendered story that will leave the reader eagerly awaiting the author's next book.	2001-08-19
1872813:US	49355567	R2MCPGYKWAODMY	0964637693	639736640	The Unwelcome Companion: An Insider's View of Tourette Syndrome	Books	2	6	6	N	Y	DID NOT MEET EXPECTATIONS...	This slender tome gives the reader a non clinical, layperson's peek into the world of those who suffer from the little understood malady known as Tourette Syndrome. The author, who himself has this disorder, speaks about the various manifestations of Tourette Syndrome and gives a brief historical overview of this malady. While informative, it fails to capture the reader, who comes away knowing a little more about the disorder, but never fully comprehends what life was like for the author who grew up with Tourette Syndrome, though tantalizing glimpses are offered. So, if one were looking for a personal memoir of a person growing up with Tourette Syndrome, this would not be that book. If one merely wants a layperson's synopsis of Tourette Syndrome, then this book may be of some value.	2001-08-18
1880890:US	49355567	R3FFMHRPE9N47P	1573441007	415589057	Christine Jorgensen: A Personal Autobiography	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	THE WORLD'S FIRST FAMOUS TRANSSEXUAL...	This is a must read book for those interested in gender identity issues, as well as for those who enjoy memoirs. Ms. Jorgensen was the first American to have a sex change operation and undergo such public scrutiny. Though she never intended to have her transformation become public knowledge, it was leaked to the press, and from then on, her life was never the same. In the cultural milieu of the nineteen fifties, Ms. Jorgensen's sex change was big news.<br /><br />Starting her life out as George Jorgensen, she never quite felt that she fit in and became a loner by inclination. One striking issue in the book, however, is that she came from an extremely loving and supportive family who always unconditionally accepted her as she was, both before and after her metamorphosis. Not every transgendered individual is as lucky as Ms. Jorgensen appears to have been with respect to familial relationships. Perhaps it was because her parents were of Danish descent, and Scandinavian people tend to be more accepting of these issues.<br /><br />Relentlessly upbeat, the book is a flattering and politely idealized memoir, as if anything too dark were exorcised from its pages. The chapters which cover Ms. Jorgensen's time in Denmark, where her change took place, are somewhat superficial and non-clinical. There is no real indication of any personal struggle or self-doubt with respect to her decision to undergo a life changing transformation. One has to remember, however, that this book was originally published approximately thirty five years ago, when the public's sensibilities on such issues were far more delicate.<br /><br />What does come across in this autobiography is that Ms. Jorgensen had the courage to make a decision that for the time was somewhat unique and cutting edge, as there was virtually no literature available for the general public on transsexualism, and gender identity studies were still in their nascent stage. Ms. Jorgensen essentially paved the way for others by bringing to the public consciousness issues that had not before been the subject of public discussion. In bringing these issues into the public domain, she was subject to a torrent of abuse, as well as discriminatory practices, and seemed to be the endless butt of jokes. She took these problems in stride, however, and always managed to have the last laugh. Laughter, indeed, appears to have been the best medicine.<br /><br />Ms. Jorgensen, an attractive natural blonde, who personified the stereotypic feminine ideal of the time, became an entertainer. Given her notoriety, her career options were limited, as she gathered a crowd whenever her identity became known. Playing the hand that was dealt her, she parlayed her notoriety into a successful club act, digressing into acting. She managed to make a success of herself, living a life that was interesting, but hardly scandalous. While this is an intriguing memoir, it is not an in depth profile of Ms. Jorgensen. The reader comes away knowing about Ms. Jorgensen, rather than knowing her. Still, all in all, it is a worthwhile read.ging to the public consciousness issues that had not before been the subject of public discussion. In bringing these issues into the public domain, she was subject to a torrent of abuse, as well as discriminatory practices, and seemed to be the endless butt of jokes. She took these problems in stride, however, and always managed to have the last laugh. Laughter, indeed, appears to have been the best medicine.<br /><br />Ms. Jorgensen, an attractive natural blonde, who personified the stereotypic feminine ideal of the time, became an entertainer. Given her notoriety, her career options were limited, as she gathered a crowd whenever her identity became known. Playing the hand that was dealt her, she parlayed her notoriety into a successful club act, digressing into acting. She managed to make a success of herself, living a life that was interesting, but hardly scandalous. While this is an intriguing memoir, it is not an in depth profile of Ms. Jorgensen. The reader comes away knowing about Ms. Jorgensen, rather than knowing her. Still, all in all, it is a worthwhile read.	2001-08-12
1890379:US	49355567	R2RVG3S97AB1EL	1901680207	750283070	The Ninth Configuration	Books	4	28	30	N	N	AN UNUSUAL THRILLER...	This is a well written and tightly crafted novel. The dialogue, while often full of angst, is witty and clever. The premise of the book is certainly unusual. A secret facility houses militairy officers, all brave men, who have, for reasons unknown, become mentally disturbed. Housed without hope, a militairy psychiatrist enters their lives in a most unexpected way. Yet, it appears that he has his own issues with which to contend, issues that lie at the heart of his seeming understanding of their problems. Things are not always what they seem. Be prepare for a shocking surprise. This book is definitely a thriller in every sense of the word.	2001-08-05
1890539:US	49355567	R321DIBGN6YPY9	0425033090	408298528	Survive!	Books	4	6	7	N	N	ANTHROPOPHAGY SAVES THE DAY...	This is an interesting account of the tragic plane crash in the Andes mountains in October 1972, which saw forty five people go down with the plane, many of them members of a Uruguayan rugby team. Of those forty five, ultimately sixteen would come off the mountain alive, but it would not come to pass until they had spent approximately seventy horrific days and nights trapped in unforgiving and alien territory high in the Andes mountains.<br /><br />This book recounts for the reader the travails of those trapped in this remote and inaccessible place, as well as the faith that  helped see them through their horrific ordeal. A few of the photographs in the book are a little shocking, as they show the  remains of the survivors' anthropophagy. They did, however, what they had to do in order to survive. It is definitely an amazing story. It makes one ask of oneself, &#34;What would I have done under the same circumstances?&#34; Read the book to see if you can answer that question.	2001-08-05
1891152:US	49355567	R1OK4Y19ZOO8C3	0395262933	330656207	Links	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A STRUGGLE BETWEEN THE HERE AND NOW AND THE HEREAFTER...	This book is purportedly based upon an actual, unpublicized experiment into an altered state of conciousness. Written by a former science editor for Newsweek, it is a taut and suspenseful thriller. Ben West, a psychologist, is conducting an experiment on mutual hypnosis in which the subjects have their conciousness linked together in a sort of state of temporary death. His subjects are his fiancee, Alison Kilmore, and his friend, Stan Fredricks who, through these experiments in hypnosis, seem to be sharing a quasi after death experience.<br /><br />As the experiments continue, Alison, in her waking state, seems to be undergoing a change, both physical and mental, becoming detached and disoriented from her everyday reality. Stan also seems to be undergoing a change. He suddenly wants to divorce his wife, Nina. He is also disregarding Ben's instructions during the experiments, and Stan seems to be exerting mind control over Alison, even when not under hypnosis. It appears that the experiments have caused their minds to become linked in some way, as if Alison and Stan were one and having a sort of telepathic affair. It seems that both Ben and Stan want Alison. Only one can have her. Only one wants her alive. Who will ultimately be the victor, and at what cost? Read the book to discover the chilling answer.	2001-08-04
1891958:US	49355567	R1HGEZE85UAM09	0446606081	198340912	The Ax	Books	4	11	12	N	Y	A MODERN DAY MORALITY TALE...	What do you do when you are over fifty years old, and the company for which you have worked for nearly a quarter of a century is downsizing and gives you the ax? One would think that you would simply get another job. Wrong! In this era of corporate downsizing and fierce competition, that may be easier said than done. Ask Burke Devore.<br />Burke Devore, unemployed now for nearly two years, would like nothing better than to get a job commensurate with his experience as a product manager for a paper mill corporation, but as I said, competition is fierce. Desperate in his quest for the american dream that seems to have turned into a nightmare from which he cannot wake, his middle class life is spiraling out of control. He must regain control by whatever means necessary. Burke Devore, thinking out of the box, simply decides to  eliminate the competition...literally. Our erstwhile serial killer is mad as hell, and he isn't going to take it anymore.<br />This darkly satirical and provocative novel is a veritable page turner. Moreover, there is an underlying social commentary that permeates the plot, which serves to make the reader complicit with the protagonist, as he moves forward with his deadly agenda. Well written and original in concept, it makes for a book well worth reading, especially by those who enjoy mysteries and novels of suspense.	2001-08-04
1893739:US	49355567	R3RAR024PP6G9A	0316782505	480327121	The Weight of Water	Books	5	9	11	N	N	COMPELLING... ABSORBING,,, POWERFUL...	This is an exceptionally well written tour de force about complex emotions. Written is clean, spare prose, it is two stories in one, each with its own voice, demanding to be heard. It is, without a doubt, a book to remember.<br /><br />It tells the story of Jean, a news photographer who sets out on a sailboat to a remote island off the coast of New Hampshire, accompanied by her husband Thomas, her five year old daughter Billie, her brother-in-law, Rich, and his girl friend of several months, Adaline. The purpose of her visit is to photograph the scene of a nineteenth century double murder that saw two Norwegian, immigrant women hacked to death, which murders were much ballyhooed at the time as the crime of the century.<br /><br />While there, she discovers an uncatalogued translation of the personal journal of the ostensible lone, female eyewitness, Maren Hontvedt, who seemed to have survived the carnage. Written in a sombre and ruminative tone, the journal of Maren's life and of the events that led up to the carnage forms a core of the story. Maren's journal provides a framework for looking at the angst of Jean's present which is haunted by passion, jealousy, and betrayal. It is through Maren's story that Jean herself comes to terms with her own personal tragedy.<br /><br />Alternating between Jean's unravelling present and the secrets of the past, the book provides a compelling, absorbing and suspenseful narrative, keeping the reader in its thrall. The two juxtaposed dramas come together in a primal and tragic climax. Those who read this book will find themselves haunted by it.	2001-08-02
1899221:US	49355567	R19D7BUWNMD2I5	0525945784	272792900	Touch the Top of the World: A Blind Man's Journey to Climb Farther Than the Eye Can See	Books	4	5	5	N	N	NO GUTS...NO GLORY	The author, who is totally blind, gives the reader his life story. Told with humor, he regales the reader with insights into his early life, when he could still see, and describes how his gradual loss of sight impacted on how the world perceived him. Fighting all his life against stereotypic notions that the sighted population has about those who are blind, the author has proven that those who are blind can do just about anything a sighted person can do. They just go about doing it in a slightly different way.<br />It is truly amazing that the author climbs mountains, because in order for him to do so, he must climb with others in whom he can place his complete and absolute trust. To some extent, he must rely upon them for precise descriptions of the terrain which lies before him. He also sometimes requires them to direct him accurately. Often, accurate directions and descriptions of the terrain are all that lies between the author and a precipitous drop of several thousand feet. I marvel that anyone would dare to venture up a mountain they cannot see in the traditional sense. The author has nerves of steel and is blessed with a very supportive and loving family.<br />Yet, he climbs, not for the visual beauty of the mountains, but for the sense of freedom that it gives. For him, the mountains he climbs are a reassurance that he is just like everyone else. They are also trophies. He is working on climbing the seven summits, the tallest mountain on each of the seven continents. At present, he has reached the summit of four of them. I hope that he will reach his goal.<br />The author is a very handsome, athletic and driven young man, and I give him a lot of credit for that drive and athleticism. When one reads his book, the reader realizes just how much it took for him to be able to do what he has done. What he has accomplished has flown into the face of conventional wisdom and traditional expectations of one who is blind. His story is unique in that he alone has made it so. He is a shining example of a person who will not let others dictate the parameters of his life. Yet, at the same time, he occasionally comes across as somewhat unfeeling of others and a bit shallow. Those who read the book will, undoubtedly, know what I mean. Nonetheless, he is certainly to be credited for expanding common perceptions of what the blind are capable of achieving.<br />Good luck, Erik, on all your future endeavors!it so. He is a shining example of a person who will not let others dictate the parameters of his life. Yet, at the same time, he occasionally comes across as somewhat unfeeling of others and a bit shallow. Those who read the book will, undoubtedly, know what I mean. Nonetheless, he is certainly to be credited for expanding common perceptions of what the blind are capable of achieving.<br />Good luck, Erik, on all your future endeavors!	2001-07-30
1899668:US	49355567	R2MBI9N1KMQXW5	0898866871	786567433	Minus 148 Degrees: The First Winter Ascent of Mount McKinley	Books	4	49	51	N	Y	A  COURAGEOUS  AND HISTORIC  FIRST...	It is clear from the beginning of this book that trouble was looming on the horizon for these intrepid, but somewhat reckless, climbers. The loss early on of one of their comrades to a fall into a crevasse was predictable. How they could think of walking unroped, on a glacier that they knew was ridden with crevasses, is almost unbelievable. This was due, no doubt, to youthful inexperience and a lack of leadership necessary to set the parameters of what would be acceptable in terms of safety. These factors combined were to cost them dearly. It was not until near the end of their forty two day stay on the mountain, that they coalesced into a team.<br /><br />Notwithstanding the sheer recklessness of their initial, bumbling efforts at a winter ascent of Mt. McKinley, the fact remains that they did achieve the first such summit, no mean feat any time of year, but almost inconceivable in the dead of winter. Coming off the summit, their thermometer recorded the temperature at a quite bone chilling minus fifty eight degrees.<br /><br />Caught in a whiteout on their descent, however, the three summiteers were forced to dig a snow cave, where they were to spend endless days, in weather which saw temperatures plummet to an almost mind boggling minus one hundred and forty eight degrees with the wind chill factor, hence the name of the book. That they could survive this, is a testament to their fortitude.<br /><br />In their snow cave, it was a relatively toasty minus thirty five below. That snow cave was the only thing that stood between them and certain death. With virtually no food, frost bitten, and suffering from disorientation due to the altitude, they waited out the storm and lived to tell the tale.<br /><br />This gripping chronicle, of the forty two days they spent on the highest and coldest mountain in North America, is a classic in mountaineering literature and one of the best books on McKinley climbs. Those who love this genre will certainly enjoy this book. It is made all the more interesting by the author's new afterword, which gives a retrospective of what happened to all those who participated in the first winter ascent of Mt. McKinley.ade all the more interesting by the author's new afterword, which gives a retrospective of what happened to all those who participated in the first winter ascent of Mt. McKinley.	2001-07-29
1900159:US	49355567	R1TV52226RBRLJ	0151006725	216165989	Slammerkin: A Loose Dress, A Loose Woman	Books	4	2	5	N	N	MARY, MARY, QUITE CONTRARY...	This is a well written, artfully told tale of a young, working class, teenage girl, Mary Saunders, in eighteenth century London, England, who, through a moment's exercise in bad judgment, finds herself turned out of the only home she has ever known by her own mother. Her desperation to survive sees her ushered into a life of prostitution and servitude. Based upon the actual, brief but notorious, life of a certain Mary Saunders, a servant girl who killed her mistress and was executed for her crime in 1764, it is a fascinating, historical tapestry, woven out of the few known threads of a misbegotten life.<br />Here, Mary Saunders is cast as an unsophisticated, thirteen year old, who, as many young girls are wont to do, desired pretty fripperies. One day, she coveted a red ribbon, and her desire for it would ultimately cost her dearly. Tossed out of her home by her mother, when her indiscretion becomes evident, Mary finds herself immersed in the underbelly of London, surviving as only a poor, but pretty, young girl can in eighteenth century London. Turning to prostitution, she descends into a life that heralds both her independence and her personal degradation.<br />The fates ultimately conspire to have Mary leave London for Monmouth, the birthplace of her mother. There she arranges to meet with one of her mother's childhood friends, Mrs. Jones. Giving her a sob story, Mary initially preys upon Mrs. Jones' tender sensibilities, and she is hired on as a sort of servant, but with favored status due to her being Mrs. Jones' old friend's daughter.<br />While there, Mary, now sixteen, is torn between her surprising contentment with her new found role and her desire to return to the excitement of London. Her life seems to be headed in a new direction, however, if she can only manage to make the choices that she needs to make in order to keep her life on track. Unfortunately, she begins to weave a web of deception that in the end becomes her own waterloo, wiping out all vestiges of hope for a life worth living. Ultimately caught between a rock and a hard place, Mary commits an act that she cannot undo, and it is this that is her own final undoing.<br />A dark and atmospheric tale, this is a story that is sure to capture the imagination of the reader. Through the vivid use of language and historical, period detail, the author captures the flavor of the class conflicts of eighteenth century England, as well as a sense of the strictures and social mores which were imposed upon the women of that time. Graphic and explicit in its description of Mary Saunders' brief and all too tragic life, this book is an unusual and intriguing work of fiction.ges of hope for a life worth living. Ultimately caught between a rock and a hard place, Mary commits an act that she cannot undo, and it is this that is her own final undoing.<br />A dark and atmospheric tale, this is a story that is sure to capture the imagination of the reader. Through the vivid use of language and historical, period detail, the author captures the flavor of the class conflicts of eighteenth century England, as well as a sense of the strictures and social mores which were imposed upon the women of that time. Graphic and explicit in its description of Mary Saunders' brief and all too tragic life, this book is an unusual and intriguing work of fiction.	2001-07-29
1918176:US	49355567	RS1W0BI613QFP	0385493673	72742031	Last Man Standing: The Tragedy and Triumph of Geronimo Pratt	Books	5	6	9	N	Y	...AND JUSTICE FOR ALL	Superlative investigative reporting, coupled with a riveting narrative, makes for a compelling and remarkable book that keeps the reader turning its pages. The author deftly chronicles the amazing journey of Geronimo Pratt, a decorated Vietnam War veteran and Black Panther Party leader, who, in 1970, fell victim to a political power struggle and was incarcerated for a murder that he simply did not commit.<br />The Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Los Angeles Police Department, and the Los Angeles District Attorney's Office, all  affirmatively conspired to bring about this miscarriage of justice through a shameful and colossal abuse of power. Make no bones about it. The author weaves a most convincing indictment of the culpability of these agencies in this matter. It is a shameful episode within the criminal justice system.<br />Were it not for the concerted efforts of his dedicated legal team, spearheaded by attorneys Stuart Hanlon and Johnnie Cochran, Geronimo Pratt would most likely still be waiting for justice. They stayed the course with him the entire time. It was through their dogged determination that Geromino Pratt's twenty seven year odyssey through the criminal justice system finally came to an end. It was a journey that few would care to make.<br />This book is a testament to one man's faith in himself and in the truth that ultimately set him free. It is also a testament to the skill of the author in penning such a spellbinding tour de force.	2001-07-15
1919851:US	49355567	R2WUPU6DSD8U7P	038000321X	399926886	Alive: The Story of the Andes Survivors	Books	5	36	42	N	N	I GET BY WITH A LITTLE HELP FROM MY FRIENDS...	Time has not diminished the drama of the tale of the Uruguayan rugby team whose plane crashed in the Andes mountains. Of the forty five people on the plane at the time of the crash, sixteen came down from the mountain about seventy days later with a saga of survival not easily forgotten.<br /><br />Theirs is a journey born of tragedy and human endurance. The author unfolds a tale that is gripping in the telling, as enthralling as it is almost unbelievable. It is investigative reporting at its best, because it does not fail to convey the human drama and pathos behind the story of this remarkable struggle for survival high up in the Andes mountains. Masterfully written, it is a well balanced narrative that takes great pains to ground the experience of the survivors in the context out of which it arose. Thus, begins this epic tale of survival.<br /><br />The plane had crashed in the Andes mountains on Argentinian territory. It was an exercise in terror for those on the plane, as it barreled down the mountain, before finally coming to rest in a valley of snow high up in the Andes. Of the forty five persons on board, thirty two had initially survived the crash. Some, however, had sustained serious injuries. Time would not be their friend. Moreover, with little warm clothing (keep in mind that October is springtime in South America), the survivors were exposed to the extreme cold of the night air, high up in the Andes mountains. Though spring, this still meant temperatures well below freezing. Damp, cold, and hungry, amid the anguished cries of the injured, thus began the first of many such nights.<br /><br />By their tenth day in the Andes, the limited food supplies, which they had rationed with all the care of a miser, had virtually run out. Starving and ravenously hungry, they voiced what they all knew to be true, but had not dared to voice before. They must eat, or they would die. The only thing left for them to eat, however, was abhorrent and deeply repugnant to them. Digging deep into their conservative, religious souls, they found a way to justify actions that would have them transcend a new reality. Their fallen comrades would now provide the means of their sustenance. All eventually succumbed to this only means of survival.<br /><br />This, while one of the most dramatic parts of their story, is just that, a part. Their survival entailed much more. They had to endure other deprivations. They had to survive the elements. They had to overcome a profound despair over being seemingly forgotten by the outside world. Ultimately, only sixteen were able to do so. How they did so will fascinate all readers of adventure literature. The means that they took to let the world know that they were still alive will astound even the most jaded of readers. It is an account of human endurance that is thought provoking and compelling, a quest to reconcile physical needs with the spiritual. It is, above all, a riveting testament to life.. Digging deep into their conservative, religious souls, they found a way to justify actions that would have them transcend a new reality. Their fallen comrades would now provide the means of their sustenance. All eventually succumbed to this only means of survival.<br /><br />This, while one of the most dramatic parts of their story, is just that, a part. Their survival entailed much more. They had to endure other deprivations. They had to survive the elements. They had to overcome a profound despair over being seemingly forgotten by the outside world. Ultimately, only sixteen were able to do so. How they did so will fascinate all readers of adventure literature. The means that they took to let the world know that they were still alive will astound even the most jaded of readers. It is an account of human endurance that is thought provoking and compelling, a quest to reconcile physical needs with the spiritual. It is, above all, a riveting testament to life.	2001-07-14
1923523:US	49355567	R1KBI6FFB5NZK5	068340007X	772966289	Stedman's Medical Dictionary	Books	5	28	29	N	N	THE QUINTESSENTIAL  MEDICAL DICTIONARY...	This is a comprehensive, medical dictionary that is well organized and cross-referenced. Its use is made more interesting by the inclusion of etymologies. It is not, however, for doctors only. This veritable treasure trove of information is also a boon to lawyers. All who use it, however, should read the user's guide that is included with the book, in order to maximize its value.	2001-07-11
1924194:US	49355567	R296OG5LII63ZY	0735506353	674768758	Trial Techniques (Coursebook)	Books	5	15	20	N	N	THE DEFINITIVE BOOK ON TRIAL TECHNIQUES....	This reference book tells you everything that you wanted to know about trials, but were afraid to ask. It is an excellent reference work for law students or inexperienced trial lawyers who want to grasp the fundamentals of trial techniques, so as to at least look and sound as if they know what they are doing. It is a comprehensive work that covers methodology, as well as trial strategy.<br /><br />The book gives the reader instructive examples on ways of accomplishing a specific task, which, while not dispositive, are invaluable to the inexperienced. It gives the novice a starting point from which one may develop his or her own particular style. The book offers basic trial techniques without which no novice trial lawyer should be. It is your basic primer on trial work with the emphasis on jury trials. It is well organized and easy to follow. If you only have room for one trial techniques book on your shelf, this should be the one.	2001-07-11
1924348:US	49355567	R3FKL6DQCAGKDX	0517223651	879257691	Gray's Anatomy: The Classic Collector's Edition	Books	4	11	16	N	N	NOT JUST FOR DOCTORS...	This book is a seminal, comprehensive body of work on the human anatomy. It contains seven hundred and eighty illustrations, of which one hundred and seventy two are in color. While this is,  no doubt, a book that every physician should have, lawyers with a personal injury practice or prosecutors who try assault or homicide cases should have more than a passing acquaintance with this book. It is a wonderful resource, explaining the human anatomy clearly, and is, with good reason, the premier text on this subject.	2001-07-11
1927713:US	49355567	R2ZQPKDC5RTIVP	0553582933	637222809	Winter Moon	Books	4	12	14	N	N	A SCARY,  CREEPY READ...KEEP THE LIGHTS ON!	This is a highly entertaining, quick read, that is sure to provide some chills. Here, a heroic, Los Angeles Police Department cop, Jack McGarvey, is shot and almost killed in a wild shoot out which sees several civilians killed, as well as his partner, the second partner Jack has lost inside of a year. After a four month convalescence, Jack, his wife Heather, and their son Toby receive an unexpected gift, seemingly from the Gods. Eduardo Hernandez, the father of his former partner of eleven years, died and left Jack a six hundred acre ranch in Montana, as well as a  substantial sum of cash. Having decided that enough is enough, Jack and Heather agree to relocate to Montana.<br /><br />Unbeknownst to Jack, before seventy year old Eduardo Hernandez  died, he had been experiencing some mighty strange goings on at the ranch. One night, a bizarre, electronic oscillation pulsed through the bone deep quiet of the Montana air, coming in disturbing waves, accompanied by the sense of an alien presence. An amber radiance resonated through the pine woods surrounding the ranch. Lasting only seven minutes, the phenomena disappeared, only to return a month later in an even more disquieting fashion. Louder, with more rhythmic pounding, it caused the house to vibrate. An undulation of sound lured Eduardo out of his home, where a luminescent amber radiance once again emanated from the woods, calling out to him, the sense of an alien presence overwhelming. It then disappeared, as quickly as it began. A month later, the same thing occured, only this time a two dimensional doorway into infinite blackness appeared, a portal into the unknown. Soon after this portal appeared, the surrounding wildlife began to act strangely. Just what was going on?<br /><br />Read this book and find out. Just remember...leave the lights on!	2001-07-08
1928307:US	49355567	R5PBSOHHXQAPK	0316601950	760222125	The Pilot's Wife (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	A MOSAIC OF AN EMOTIONAL LANDSCAPE...	This is a beautifully written novel about a happily married woman, Kathryn Lyons, whose husband, Jack, is an airlines pilot. They have a teenage daughter named Mattie. They live in her lovely childhood home in Ely, New Hampshire. For sixteen years life has been good. Then her husband goes down with his plane, just ten miles off the coast of Ireland, and ever so slowly the very fabric of their life together unravels.<br />The media frenzy surrounding the explosion of the plane that her husband was piloting, brings to light the plain fact that her husband had been, unbeknownst to her, leading a double life, a life that had not included her or their daughter, but had, most emphatically, excluded them. This is a story of Kathryn's navigation of the emotional roller coaster that was to become her life, as she is thrust into a maelstrom of grief and disbelief, as she struggles to reconcile her memory of the man she thought she knew, with the reality of who he now appeared to have been.<br />This is a remarkable book, written in clean spare prose, that underscores some of the very emotion laden issues with which it grapples. At times infinitely sad and poignant, it is a story of betrayal and splintered memories. A very absorbing, skillfully told tale of adultery that will hold the reader in its thrall.	2001-07-08
1928677:US	49355567	R12S756DIV51XP	0515126837	679728732	A Matter of Time (Time Passages)	Books	4	12	14	N	Y	TIME TRAVEL WITH A TWIST...	This book is enjoyable, escapist entertainment. It is a fairly well written, time travel romance. I read it, not realizing that there was a prequel to it. It did not really matter, as the author had enough background information interwoven in the book, so as to make it totally comprehensible. The only thing it did was whet my appetite for the prequel, which I fully intend to read.<br />Here, a twentieth century doctor, Douglas MacKendimen, disillusioned with the practice of medicine, inadvertently goes back in time to fourteenth century Scotland. Having been brought up with tales of time travel by his parents, stories that he took to be fairy tales, he is amazed to find them to be true. While in the past, he discovers people who knew his parents and is amazed to realize that he himself was conceived in the past.<br />He also meets the woman of his dreams, literally. You see, Douglas had, for some time, been dreaming of a raven haired, green eyed beauty, and here she is in the flesh in the fourteenth century! It turns out that she is Caitlin MacInnis, a healer in her own time. With her help, the disillusioned doctor rediscovers why it was that he went into the medical profession in the first place, and he regains his joy in being a healer. Having fallen in love with Caitlin, he must now decide whether he will return to his own time, or remain in the past with the love of his life.<br />Read the book, to find out what he decides to do.	2001-07-08
1928815:US	49355567	R1LIGB1LEHUMGQ	0877792208	211621092	The Official SCRABBLE Players Dictionary	Books	5	2	2	N	N	AND THE WINNER IS...	If you are a serious Scrabble player, and by serious I mean that you play to win, then you must have this book. It is essential to all serious and determined Scrabble players, especially if you play with friends and family, and you wish to remain on good terms with them. This book will take the stuffing right out of anyone's arguments over the legitimacy of a particular word, because if the word being challenged is found in this dictionary, then the issue ends right there. Everyone can continue playing nicely, because the undisputed authority has made the decision easy. So, all you Scrabble nuts out there, hang on to your friends and family simply by investing in this book. You will be glad that you did, as it will guarantee keeping your blood pressure down next time you play Scrabble!	2001-07-07
1929692:US	49355567	R1C2G8C612DXJ0	0449201880	829532744	I Never Promised You an Apple Orchard: The Collected Writings of Snoopy	Books	2	0	0	N	N	...BUT YOU PROMISED US A BOOK	This is a hardcover book showing the collected writings of Snoopy. It is a compendium of cartoons, publishers' rejection letters, visual jokes, and a mercifully short story, which rounds out this little tome. Written tongue in cheek and only numbering about sixty pages in length, it is strictly for die hard Snoopy fans. Anyone else will be disappointed.	2001-07-07
1929951:US	49355567	R3NPYE4IU9YVWY	0690001711	773889066	Dictionary of foreign terms	Books	3	2	2	N	N	IT'S GREEK TO ME...	This reference book is a handy guide to more than fifteen thousand foreign terms. One occasionally comes across such when reading, but it may be a term with which the reader may be unfamiliar. These terms, drawn from various disciplines, are found in this one handy little tome along with their meanings which are clear and concise. With this source, one may avoid having to sort through a variety of reference materials in order to come up with the needed meaning or definition.	2001-07-07
1929977:US	49355567	R16M4VV81JLWU7	1561706213	290791524	Adventures of a Psychic: A Fascinating and Inspiring True-Life Story of One of America's Most Successful Clairvoyants	Books	4	16	20	N	N	INTERESTING, PROVOCATIVE, AND ENTERTAINING...	Having seen Sylvia Browne on the Montel Williams show, I was certainly captivated by her psychic ability, as she seemed to be so on the money with her revelations about some of Montel's guests. I purchased this book in hope of finding out more about this intriguing woman, who certainly seemed to be blessed with a remarkable psychic gift.<br />The book is informative and highly entertaining, as Sylvia relates her life story, and the reader discovers how she evolved to be the person she is today. She tells the reader of her dysfunctional family and suggests that her gift is a hereditary one. She describes her psychic gift in detail and informs the reader of the use to which she has put her ability. Her journey in life has, thus far, been a fascinating and unusual one.<br /><br />She also gives the reader her vision of what lies ahead for each and every one of us, after we have moved on from this earhly plane. While one cannot be sure whether she is right or wrong, it still makes for some thought provoking and interesting reading. She believes death to be one's reward for living. This is certainly philosophically in keeping with her vision of what lies ahead for each of us, after death.<br /><br />The book, written in a warm, breezy, conversational tone, is very reflective of Sylvia's actual cadence and personality. Whether or not one is a believer is irrelevant to the enjoyment that one will derive from reading this book. Keep an open mind!	2001-07-07
1930843:US	49355567	R3Q7RPPYQY6G4B	0345417623	786105285	Timeline	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A DAZZLING , HIGHLY IMAGINATIVE, AND ABSORBING BOOK...	This book is an absolute page turner. It opens with one of the most absorbing first chapters I have ever read. An elderly man is found wandering in the desert, speaking in rhyme. There is something not quite right about him. The hospital to which he is taken discovers that the anomalies do not end with just his speech. Something is very wrong with him.<br /><br />Highly inventive and compelling, the reader is reeled in hook, line, and sinker, right from the get go. A wholly plot driven book, make no mistake about it, the story revolves around a highly secretive, technological corporation, ITC, headed up by a megalomaniacal, young genius, who is tooling around with quantam physics in a way that has never before been done. Our genius is spearheading a project that is truly cutting edge. Of course, he is not doing this for the betterment of mankind. He is doing it simply because it will ultimately result in mega bucks for him, if all goes according to plan. Alas, the best laid plans often go awry.<br /><br />Cut to a group of dedicated historians who are involved in an archaeological dig, located along the Dordogne River in France. Their project, the ultimate restoration of a fourteenth century, feudal town, is very generously funded by ITC. Now why would a technological giant such as ITC be funding such a project?<br />This is the basic premise of the book. The use of quantam physics is applied in such a way as to access the past. Here, a group of historians find themselves with the chance of a lifetime. They can actually enter fourteenth century, feudal France and experience it themselves. There is quite an adventure in store for them.<br /><br />Their reason for doing so, however, is not research. They are actually on a mission to rescue their chief historian who had ventured into fourteenth century, feudal France, using ITC's technological application of quantam physics. Due to an unfortunate set of circumstances, however, he found himself mired in the fourteenth century and unable to return to the present, as originally planned.<br /><br />What happens to these intrepid historians wil captivate the reader. Well written and thoroughly researched, those who, like me, love science fiction, as well as historical fiction, will, most likely, enjoy this book. As a devotee of medieval history, I was entranced by the historical detail contained within the novel. I also found the book somewhat reminiscent of the sci-fi television series called \\"Sliders\\", in which the concept of quantam physics is utilized in order to slide into parallel universes.<br /><br />All in all, this well written novel makes for riveting, escapist entertainment. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and found that I simply could not put it down!entury and unable to return to the present, as originally planned.<br /><br />What happens to these intrepid historians wil captivate the reader. Well written and thoroughly researched, those who, like me, love science fiction, as well as historical fiction, will, most likely, enjoy this book. As a devotee of medieval history, I was entranced by the historical detail contained within the novel. I also found the book somewhat reminiscent of the sci-fi television series called \\"Sliders\\", in which the concept of quantam physics is utilized in order to slide into parallel universes.<br /><br />All in all, this well written novel makes for riveting, escapist entertainment. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and found that I simply could not put it down!	2001-07-06
1931163:US	49355567	R3O2Z7DQMLUU6V	0684863189	156752428	The Cheese Lover's Cookbook and Guide: Over 150 Recipes with Instructions on How to Buy, Store, and Serve All Your Favorite Cheeses	Books	5	47	47	N	N	IF YOU LOVE CHEESE, YOU MUST GET THIS BOOK...	I love cheese. A world without cheese is almost unimaginable. I have never met a cheese I didn't like. It is one of the most delicious and flavorful foods on Earth, as well as one of the most versatile.<br /><br />You can have cheese as an appetizer, a soup, a salad, a main course, or even as a dessert. If you should have any doubt about my somewhat sweeping declaration, you need only open this book. It contains over a hundred and fifty eclectic, mouth watering, delicious recipes, where cheese is a prime ingredient.<br /><br />I came upon this book at a school auction, coupled with a lovely cheese board. I placed a silent bid on the set, and to my surprise, I was the successful bidder. I took the items home, and being a bookaholic, began perusing this book.<br />To my surprise, I discovered it to be much more than a cookbook, as it gives the reader precise instructions on how to buy, store, and serve just about every conceivable variety of cheese. All this information is imparted in a conversational tone, making for easy reading.<br /><br />The author tells the reader how her love of cheese motivated her to start her own cheese factory, the very successful &#34;Mozzarella Company&#34;. She also starts the reader from scratch, telling one what cheese actually is. She also gives the reader a fascinating overview on the history of cheese, as well as a chapter on cheese and nutrition.<br /><br />The author goes to great lengths to describe the various types of cheese, categorizing it by texture, flavor, and country of origin. She gives tips on buying and serving cheese, as well as tips on what to do with leftover cheese. She also gives suggestions on what wine to pair with certain cheeses. For those who are ambitious and so inclined, the author even has a chapter on making your own cheese at home.<br /><br />While these extras are all well and good, the recipes alone are worth investing in the book. My own personal favorites are the &#34;Bruschetta Topped with Goat Cheese and Tomatoes&#34;, &#34;Green Salad with Apples and Goat Cheese&#34;, &#34;Crustless Cheddar Quiche with Onion and Bacon Topping&#34;, &#34;Uptown Get-Down Macaroni and Cheese&#34;, &#34;Bell Peppers Stuffed with Rice, Ricotta, and Jarlsberg&#34;, and &#34;Carrot-Ricotta Pudding&#34;.<br /><br />Of course, the recipes I like are all fairly basic and easy to put together. There are also many, more ambitious and delicious sounding recipes for those with an affinity for cooking. They  reflect a variety of diverse influences. Contemporary in feel, ranging from the gastronomically creative to the traditrional, they are international in scope. There is simply something for everyone. It is not just for cheese lovers only.se and Tomatoes&#34;, &#34;Green Salad with Apples and Goat Cheese&#34;, &#34;Crustless Cheddar Quiche with Onion and Bacon Topping&#34;, &#34;Uptown Get-Down Macaroni and Cheese&#34;, &#34;Bell Peppers Stuffed with Rice, Ricotta, and Jarlsberg&#34;, and &#34;Carrot-Ricotta Pudding&#34;.<br /><br />Of course, the recipes I like are all fairly basic and easy to put together. There are also many, more ambitious and delicious sounding recipes for those with an affinity for cooking. They  reflect a variety of diverse influences. Contemporary in feel, ranging from the gastronomically creative to the traditrional, they are international in scope. There is simply something for everyone. It is not just for cheese lovers only.	2001-07-06
1939002:US	49355567	R3V67OOSMV7WZ3	0671042572	835489451	Jewel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A JEWEL OF A NOVEL...	This is a wonderful, luminous book about families. It focuses on one family, in particular. The novel centers around a poor, undereducated woman named Jewel who began her life in  the backwoods of rural Mississippi. It takes us on her life journey and, consequently, that of  family. It shows us how Jewel dealt with a situation that can often make or break a family, and the impact that this issue had on that same family.<br />Beautifully written in the voice of a poor, ill educated, southern woman, the author gives life to a three dimensional character, Jewel. Born in 1904, her parents died when she was young. She then lived with her maternal grandmother who simply did not treat her with affection, as she had disapproved of her daughter's marriage to Jewel's father. While Jewel's grandmother did her duty by her, Jewel lived a life devoid of familial love and affection.<br />Consequently, when Jewel up and married, she was determined to have a household filled with love. She and her devoted husband, Leston, made a life. They had five children. Life was good, though hard. Then they had a sixth child, Brenda Kay, when Jewel was pushing forty. They loved her dearly. It soon, however, became apparent that Brenda Kay was not like their other children. Jewel's worst fears were realized, when she was told that her youngest daughter had Down Syndrome.<br />How Jewel coped and how this event affected each member of the family is the crux of this wonderfully written novel. Brenda Kay's birth is the catalyst for a journey that would take this family in search of a better life for its newest member. It would be a test of the measure of the love that they had for one another. It is a story of perseverance and survival. It is a story of familial love and acceptance. It is a story of a mother's struggle to make sure that her child reaches her full potential, no matter what the cost.	2001-06-30
1939945:US	49355567	R3FVP3E8WAVAYO	1560252987	479995197	A Slender Thread: Escaping Disaster in the Himalaya (Adrenaline)	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	I'VE FALLEN AND I CAN'T GET UP...	This book is well written, but much of it is decidedly dull. The author writes with all the passion of a dead fish. There are, however, some interesting passages about the history of a remote section of the Himalayas known as the Pancha Chuli massif which are actually five peaks close to India's border with western Nepal.<br />It is to this region that the author went in 1992 as part of an expedition led by world reknowned British climber, Chris Bonnington. Quite frankly, the author makes himself out to be a less than ideal climbing partner. He apparently had choice words for everyone, including Chris Bonnington. He is lucky that they are apparently better men than he, or he would never have survived his accident, a three hundred foot fall 19,000 feet up the mountain. But for his fellow expeditioners, the author would still be up there, a silent, frozen reminder to other climbers of the peril that may sometimes await one while climbing.<br />His account of what happens both before and after his accident, and upon his return home, as well as what occurs on his next expedition, gives the reader a measure of the author as a person. There are certainly those who may find him wanting. Yet, notwithstanding  his readily apparent, personal shortcomings, his dispassionate account of his travail high up on a remote Himalayan peak is still a worthwhile read, if you are a devotee of mountaineering literature. If you are not, deduct one star from my rating.	2001-06-29
1945523:US	49355567	R30SHNZPP3QNYQ	0060927941	709104455	Don't Pee on My Leg and Tell Me It's Raining: America's Toughest Family Court Judge Speaks Out	Books	4	35	41	N	N	WHAT YOU SEE...IS WHAT YOU GET	I have to admit that I am in complete agreement with Judge Judy. She is a tough talking, no nonsense, commom sense oriented individual, who believes in personal responsibility and acountability. What you see on the television screen, if you watch her show &quot;Judge Judy&quot;, is what you find between the cover of this book.<br />The book covers a variety of social issues in the context of her legal and judicial experience, and she does a full court press in giving her opinions. Not given to judicial restraint, she speaks out on those issues to which her nearly quarter of a century experience as a judge has entitled her. I only wish that she were running for public office. She would certainly have my vote.<br />The only issue that I take with the book is that it is really not a cohesive entity. It is a somewhat disjointed collection of essays or opinions on various social issues that repeatedly came up during her years on the bench. There is no attempt to put them together into a broader context, so that one segues into the next. This is the one shortcoming of the book. Nonetheless, it is still an interesting read.	2001-06-25
1966275:US	49355567	R2H64SA7A72J6E	0141304979	350221871	Within Reach: My Everest Story (Nonfiction)	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	A TEEN TAKES ON EVEREST AND LIVES TO TELL THE TALE...	This is a terrific book for teens, young adults, and, yes, adults about a Rhode Island teenager, Mark Pfetzer, who makes his dreams come true. The book is written as if it were a personal journal, and in it Mark takes the reader on a journey into his young life. He shares with the reader how his interest in climbing developed, as well as his early climbing experiences.<br />Mark, mature in many ways beyond his years, is not your typical teenager. Clean cut, intelligent, fit, and not given to peer pressure, he is a bit of a loner with a dash of entrepreneurial flair. As his climbing experience increases, so does his desire for snow capped peaks. This desire motivates him to get sponsors  for his world wide travels that take him to the vast mountainous regions around the globe. Mind you, he begins his world wide travels, unaccompanied by his parents, at the ripe old age of thirteen.<br />While one may question the wisdom of letting someone so young travel around the world to do high altitude climbing, it does not diminish the pleasure one derives from reading about a young person who derives such joy from his travels and climbing. While at times Mark seems a little full of himself, one must remember that, notwithstanding his achievements, he is still a teenager, and, like most teenagers, he has his moments.<br />Still, his chronicle makes for a very interesting read. His endeavors on high altitude peaks, including Everest, are noteworthy, notwithstanding that he climbed with guided expeditions. While towards the end of his journal he may appear to be suffering from trophy mountain madness, it does not diminish the palpable love of climbing that permeates the pages of the book.<br />Mark is, without a doubt, a son of which any parent would be proud. I am sure that he will continue to live his life to the fullest. I look forward to reading about any future adventures that he may commit to paper. Dream on, Mark, and may all your dreams come true.	2001-06-09
1973650:US	49355567	R225SED92LJ7VG	0898867371	438821847	Fragile Edge: A Personal Portrait of Loss on Everest	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	THE LONG GOODBYE...	What happens to the loved ones of mountaineers who perish while seeking to climb higher peaks or pioneer new routes on challenging mountains? The author attempts to answer this question with her well written and deeply personal account.<br />The author was intimately involved in the mountaineering world of the nineteen seventies and early nineteen eighties. At the time she was in the throes of an intense love affair with Joe Trasker, the British climber who perished in 1982 with his regular climbing partner, Peter Boardman, while attempting to climb the then unclimbed Northeast ridge of Everest.<br />The author offers an intriguing, birdseye view into the tight circle of the mountaineering elite through her relationship with Joe Trasker. The book, however, is not about climbing, per se. It is more of a personal catharsis of her relationship with Joe Trasker.<br />Still, this makes for an interesting read. The book is divided into two parts. The first concerns itself with the Joe that was living. The second part concerns itself with the Joe that had perished.<br />The first part chronicles their relationship, which was intense. It also seemed to be a little one sided. The author makes it fairly clear to the reader that Joe Trasker did not seem to have the same commitment to the relationship that the author seems to have had. Her reluctance to let the relationship go appears to have been based more upon what the relationship could have been, rather than upon what it actually was. As they say, love is blind.<br />The second part of the book chronicles her coming to terms with his death. She does this by joining up with Peter Boardman's widow, Hilary, and setting off on a journey to Tibet and, ultimately, to Everest in an attempt to connect to Joe one final time, as well as to seek closure to a part of her life that was no more.<br />Sensitively written and finely drawn, her pain is palpable and her story moving. It is, above all, a fitting tribute to  Joe Trasker, the man who inspired such devotion.man who inspired such devotion.	2001-06-04
1979075:US	49355567	R53Y85R7NQV45	0451181948	261758758	Midnight Is a Lonely Place	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	A CHILLING AND IMAGINATIVE GHOST STORY...LEAVE THE LIGHTS ON	This is a very well written and absorbing novel by a master story teller. It is highly descriptive and captures the reader in its thrall. It is a chilling and imaginative ghost story centered around a love triangle that existed approximately two thousand years ago and ultimately ended in murder. The murderer, Marcus, a Roman legionaire, is cursed by his wife, Claudia, after he has her lover, Nion, a druid priest, killed. Marcus then kills Claudia. It is this tragedy that now haunts the present.<br />When  London based author, Kate Kennedy, breaks off with her selfish live in lover, she goes off to lick her wounds and nurse a broken heart in a cottage in a remote area of North Essex. The cottage, though cozy, begins to become a less than hospitable place, when unexplained sounds, scents, and traces of moist earth and sand begin to manifest themselves. Moreover, her landlord's son, Greg, and daughter, Allison, seem determined to have her leave the cottage.<br />Discovering that Allison has come across an archaeological site not far from the cottage, Kate goes to the site and finds an ancient Celtic ornament. She soon begins to hear voices in her mind and see visions of what cannot be. Ultimately, Greg, Allison, and Kate become trapped in the miasma of these ancient star crossed lovers who are determined to bring their long dormant conflict to resolution. The cost to those in the present is dear, as the reader will soon find out.<br />Be warned. This is a scary book.	2001-05-30
1992717:US	49355567	R3J3QIZ58D9HQZ	0440314887	2279951	Coming of Age in Mississippi: The Classic Autobiography of Growing Up Poor and Black in the Rural South	Books	4	7	12	N	Y	A SEARING PORTRAIT OF  THE DEEP SOUTH...	The author deftly draws for the reader a searing and compelling autobiographical perspective of what life was like for her in the rural deep south during the nineteen forties and fifties, when she was growing up. It also gives a birds-eye view of the civil rights movement of the early nineteen sixties.<br />Written by Ms. Moody when she was twenty eight, it is a damning portrait of what life was like for African-Americans in the deep south. It tells of parallel lifestyles that were preordained and dependent upon whether one were black or one were white.<br />If one were black, one was destined to a lifetime of poverty, because job opportunities were limited to bottom of the rung jobs with no opportunity for growth and which were designed by their very nature to keep one subservient. It tells of schools so substandard as to make one non-competitive in the larger world. It tells of dilapidated and ramshackle housing without indoor plumbing that was the lot of many blacks in the rural south.<br />It describes the fear that was palpable in ones every day life, if one were black; a fear of making a white person angry, because the consequences that would follow could end up costing one dearly. It sums up the daily indignities which were a part pf growing up black in the rural south in the mid twentieth century. It is a story of frustration and anger at the inequities found in every day living. It is the story of how one young woman dealt with that system and survived to become a civil rights activist at a time when to be such was tantamount to asking for trouble of a deadly nature.<br />Well told and deftly drawn, the author conveys a real sense of the times in which she grew up. She ably captures an era in America that should not be forgotten, if only to remind the reader that it was not that long ago that some Americans were treated like second class citizens. Unfortunately, despite best intentions, some still are, though it is now done in more covert, rather than overt, fashion. We, as Americans, may have come a long way, but we still have a ways to go in eliminating the inequities which still exist in our society. Ms. Moody's  autobiography serves to remind us that the past was not all that long ago and, in some measure, is still with us today., fashion. We, as Americans, may have come a long way, but we still have a ways to go in eliminating the inequities which still exist in our society. Ms. Moody's  autobiography serves to remind us that the past was not all that long ago and, in some measure, is still with us today.	2001-05-20
1993041:US	49355567	RMIR2Z3EOO46	0515118397	399688217	Stardust of Yesterday (Haunted Hearts)	Books	3	9	11	N	Y	A FRACTURED FAIRY TALE...	This is a fairytale for adults. Though not particularly well written, it is, nonetheless, a humorous and inventive story of a modern day virgin who inherits a castle and her very own ghost. The ghost is literally a knight in shining armor. This handsome and charming thirteenth century knight is doomed to haunt the halls of this castle keep for all eternity, unless he can persuade a descendant of the woman who consigned him to his fate to sign the castle over to him. Needless to say, the ghost and this twentieth century maiden fall in love. What happens to them is sure to delight readers of romance novels everywhere.	2001-05-19
2001104:US	49355567	R13FA4MBEXU589	044022425X	173145556	The Drums of Autumn	Books	4	294	338	N	Y	THIS IS THE WEAKEST LINK...	This is the fourth in a series of what has been, until now, exceptionally well written time travel, adventure/romance books by the author. There are four such books published to date in what is anticipated to be a series of six books. Those of us who are hopelessly addicted to this series are awaiting the publication and release of book five, &quot;The Fiery Cross&quot;.<br />I urge the reader to start at the beginning and read each and every one in the order in which it was written. Be not afraid of the length of each book. Trust me when I say that you will end up wishing that they were each longer, so riveting is the story that the author unfolds. Ms. Gabaldon is a master storyteller without compare, employing the superlative use of actual historical events with authentic period detail to weave a three dimensional tapestry of timeless love and adventure. While the core of the story is about a love that transcends time, it is an adventure story that holds the reader in its thrall.<br />The love that spans time is that which twentieth century Englishwoman, Claire Randall, has for eighteenth century Scottish highlands warrior, James Fraser. Those readers who have read the first book in the series, &quot;Outlander&quot;, know that in 1945, Claire, a combat nurse during World War II, is reunited with her husband, Frank, after the war. While on a second honeymoon in Scotland, she visits a strange, flat topped hill, where a forbidding stone circle draws her. Touching one of the stones, she is hurled through a vortex in time and finds herself in eighteenth century Scotland, where she meets the brave and brawny, red headed Scot, James Fraser, with whom she falls head over heels in love. Finding herself thrust into the midst of clan warfare and intrigue, she and her beloved 'Jamie' have enough adventures to last a lifetime.<br />The second book, &quot;Dragonfly in Amber&quot;, is a continuation of that story, told from the perspective of the twentieth century where Claire, now a doctor, has lived for the past twenty years. Upon the death of her twentieth century husband, Frank, Claire returns to Scotland with her grown, red headed daughter, Brianna. There she discloses to Brianna the events of her secret past, as well as the truth as to who Brianna's biological father truly is and of the love that Claire bore him.<br />While in Scotland, however, Claire discovers something that will change her future, as well as her past. You see, for the past twenty years Claire has mistakenly believed that her beloved 'Jamie' died in the historic battle of Culloden. It was there that the Scottish highlanders bravely fought the English in a misguided attempt to restore Charles Stuart, their bonnie Prince Charlie, to the English throne, only to be decimated on the battlefield. Those few who survived were branded as Jacobite traitors and imprisoned, and their families disenfranchised. It was this very event that Claire and 'Jamie' had conspired to change, only to fail.<br />Their story transports the reader from the turmoil of the Scottish highlands to the intrigue of the French Court and regales the reader with the adventures of the two lovers, as they conspire to change the very course of history. It was this valiant attempt that ultimately brought Claire and 'Jamie' to the crossroad that would compel these star crossed lovers to part and have Brianna become a denizen of the twentieth century.<br />In &quot;Voyager&quot;, Claire, now realizing that the love of her life and soulmate survived the battle of Culloden, makes the decision to go back in time and find James Fraser, as she has not stopped loving or wanting him every waking moment for the past twenty years. Leaving her daughter, Brianna, she once more hurls herself into the vortex of time to eighteenth century Scotland to begin her search for James Fraser, in hopes of being reunited with her 'Jamie'.<br />&quot;Voyager&quot; tells the story of what happened to Claire Randall and James Fraser in those intervening years. It tells of their ultimate reunion and rediscovery. Against a backdrop of historical events and period detail and with a cast of unforgettable characters, it regales the reader with their new adventures, as Claire returns to a still divided, turmoil ridden Scotland. Reunited with Jamie, none the worse for wear,they seek to make a life for themselves. As their love comes full circle, they take to the high seas, and their adventures continue, captivating the reader once more.<br />In &quot;Drums of Autumn&quot;, the story takes somewhat of a detour, as it begins to focus more on Brianna. Back in the twentieth century, Brianna and her boyfriend, Roger, a Scot and college history professor, as well as descendant of one of James Fraser's cousins from clan MacKenzie, each independently make a discovery that stuns them. Roger keeps it to himself, while Brianna acts upon it. The discovery involves an old news clipping which tells of Claire's and James' premature deaths in a house fire in pre-revolutionary, frontier America. Brianna makes the decision to go to the stone circle to try and go back in time to change the course of history and save her parents. She does not, however, tell Roger of her plans. Roger, discovering Brianna's deception, follows on her heels and, on that strange, flat topped hill in Scotland he, too, enters the stone circle and is himself hurled into the vortex of time.<br />Brianna and Roger catch up with each other in the eighteenth century only to be parted for a time, each having their own adventures. Claire and James by now are established homesteaders in North Carolina and are enjoying, what is for them, a relatively staid life. By the time Brianna catches up with them, an event has occurred in her life which may have the impact of forcing her to stay mired in the past.<br />This fourth book in the series is a bit of a disappointment, as it could have used some serious editing due to the author's self indulgence. Moreover, the characters are not so well drawn, as they are in the first three books in the series. Unfortunately, a pivotal character, that of Brianna, is uncharismatic and comes across as somewhat vapid and stupid. Brianna definitely needs work, if she is to capture the readers' imagination as have Claire and 'Jamie'. At the stage of development in which she is, Brianna would be unable to sustain another book. The same goes for Roger, who comes across as somewhat one dimensional, though he does have potential, as he seems to have a latent smoldering and sensual quality to his personality.<br />Still, notwithstanding some of these issues, this remains a compelling time travel saga, and my thirst for a fifth volume remains undiminished. I only hope that the lengthy time span between the fourth and the fifth volumes means that the author is working out some of the kinks in this new and developing direction which the series seems to be taking.n those intervening years. It tells of their ultimate reunion and rediscovery. Against a backdrop of historical events and period detail and with a cast of unforgettable characters, it regales the reader with their new adventures, as Claire returns to a still divided, turmoil ridden Scotland. Reunited with Jamie, none the worse for wear,they seek to make a life for themselves. As their love comes full circle, they take to the high seas, and their adventures continue, captivating the reader once more.<br />In &quot;Drums of Autumn&quot;, the story takes somewhat of a detour, as it begins to focus more on Brianna. Back in the twentieth century, Brianna and her boyfriend, Roger, a Scot and college history professor, as well as descendant of one of James Fraser's cousins from clan MacKenzie, each independently make a discovery that stuns them. Roger keeps it to himself, while Brianna acts upon it. The discovery involves an old news clipping which tells of Claire's and James' premature deaths in a house fire in pre-revolutionary, frontier America. Brianna makes the decision to go to the stone circle to try and go back in time to change the course of history and save her parents. She does not, however, tell Roger of her plans. Roger, discovering Brianna's deception, follows on her heels and, on that strange, flat topped hill in Scotland he, too, enters the stone circle and is himself hurled into the vortex of time.<br />Brianna and Roger catch up with each other in the eighteenth century only to be parted for a time, each having their own adventures. Claire and James by now are established homesteaders in North Carolina and are enjoying, what is for them, a relatively staid life. By the time Brianna catches up with them, an event has occurred in her life which may have the impact of forcing her to stay mired in the past.<br />This fourth book in the series is a bit of a disappointment, as it could have used some serious editing due to the author's self indulgence. Moreover, the characters are not so well drawn, as they are in the first three books in the series. Unfortunately, a pivotal character, that of Brianna, is uncharismatic and comes across as somewhat vapid and stupid. Brianna definitely needs work, if she is to capture the readers' imagination as have Claire and 'Jamie'. At the stage of development in which she is, Brianna would be unable to sustain another book. The same goes for Roger, who comes across as somewhat one dimensional, though he does have potential, as he seems to have a latent smoldering and sensual quality to his personality.<br />Still, notwithstanding some of these issues, this remains a compelling time travel saga, and my thirst for a fifth volume remains undiminished. I only hope that the lengthy time span between the fourth and the fifth volumes means that the author is working out some of the kinks in this new and developing direction which the series seems to be taking.	2001-05-13
2001325:US	49355567	R22Y63OC5X4B2Y	0440217563	685230282	Voyager: A Novel (Outlander)	Books	5	552	577	N	Y	VOYAGER BRINGS IT ON HOME!!!	The third in a series of exceptionally well written time travel, adventure/romance books by the author, it tells a gripping and highly entertaining tale. There are four such novels published to date in what is hoped to be a series of six books. I urge the interested reader to start at the beginning and read each and every one. Do not be daunted by the length. Trust me when I say that you will wish that they were longer, so riveting a story does the author unfold. A masterful storyteller, the author employs the superlative use of historical events and period detail to weave an engaging three dimensional tapestry of timeless love and adventure. While the core of the story is about a love that transcends time, it is, however, much more than that. It is an adventure story that grips the reader from beginning to end and is positively addictive!<br />The love that spans time is that which twentieth century Englishwoman, Claire Randall, has for eighteenth century Scottish highlands warrior, James Fraser. Those readers who have read the first book in the series, &quot;Outlander&quot;, know that in 1945, Claire, a combat nurse during World War II, is reunited with her husband, Frank, after the war. While on a second honeymoon in Scotland, she visits a strange, flat topped hill, where a forbidding stone circle draws her. Touching one of the stones, she is hurled through a vortex in time and finds herself in eighteenth century Scotland, where she meets a brave and brawny, red headed Scot, James Fraser, with whom she falls head over heels in love. Finding herself thrust into the midst of clan warfare and intrigue, she and her beloved 'Jamie' have enough adventures to last a lifetime.<br />The second book, &quot;Dragonfly in Amber&quot;, is a continuation of that story, told from the perspective of the twentieth century where Claire, now a doctor, has lived for the past twenty years. Upon the death of her twentieth century husband, Frank, Claire returns to Scotland with her grown, red headed daughter, Brianna. There, she discloses to Brianna the events of her secret past, as well as the truth of whom Brianna's biological father truly is and of the love that Claire bore him.<br />While in Scotland, however, Claire discovers something that will forever change her future, as well as her past. You see, for the past twenty years, Claire has mistakenly believed that her beloved 'Jamie' died in the historic battle of Culloden. It was there that the Scottish highlanders bravely fought the English in a misguided attempt to restore Charles Stuart, their bonnie Prince Charlie, to the throne of England, only to be decimated on the battlefield. Those few who survived were branded as Jacobite traitors and imprisoned, and their families disenfranchised. It is this very event that Claire and 'Jamie' had conspired to change, only to fail.<br />Their story transports the reader from the turmoil of the Scottish highlands to the intrigue of the French Court and regales the reader with the adventures of the two lovers, as they conspire to change the very course of history. It was this valiant attempt that ultimately brought Claire and 'Jamie' to the crossroad that would compel them to part and have Brianna become a denizen of the twentieth century.<br />In &quot;Voyager&quot;, Claire, now realizing that the love of her life and soulmate survived the battle of Culloden, makes the decision to go back in time and find James Fraser, as for the past twenty years her love for him has remained constant. Leaving her daughter, Brianna, she once more hurls herself into the vortex of time to eighteenth century Scotland to begin her search for James Fraser, in hope of being reunited with her 'Jamie'.<br />This book tells the story of what happened to Claire Randall and James Fraser in those intervening twenty years. It tells of their ultimate reunion and rediscovery. With historical events as a backdrop and an unforgettable cast of characters, it regales the reader with their new adventures, as Claire returns to a still divided, turmoil ridden Scotland. Reunited with James Fraser, none the worse for wear, they seek to make a life for themselves. As their love comes full circle, they take to the high seas, and their adventures continue. This compelling time travel saga is sure to captivate the reader.heir new adventures, as Claire returns to a still divided, turmoil ridden Scotland. Reunited with James Fraser, none the worse for wear, they seek to make a life for themselves. As their love comes full circle, they take to the high seas, and their adventures continue. This compelling time travel saga is sure to captivate the reader.	2001-05-13
2001345:US	49355567	R3U6M8MOURFIU0	0006479286	655324600	On the Edge of Darkness	Books	4	16	16	N	Y	ON THE EDGE OF DARKNESS...WHERE PAST AND PRESENT COLLIDE...	This is a well written, compelling story of a love that intersects the past, as well as the present. An excellent piece of paranormal fiction, it keeps the reader riveted to the pages.<br />The story begins in the nineteen thirties, when a fourteen year old boy named Adam, while traipsing in the isolated crags of the Scottish highlands near an ancient Celtic stone, meets a girl named Brid whom he mistakes for a gypsy, due to her wild, long hair, and her exotic style of dress. Unbeknownst to him, a portal in time has opened, allowing Adam and Brid, who is actually a Druid from the sixth century, to cross back and forth in time. Adam, however, does not realize that he is actually travelling back and forth in time, while Brid is not only fully aware of what is happening, but is doing so in contravention of what her uncle, a high priest to the Druids, and her training have taught her.<br />Over time, she becomes obsessive about Adam, who is her first love, while Adam, as he grows up, moves on with his life. In  leaving the heartsick Brid behind and consigning her to his memories, he takes his life in a seemingly new direction.<br />Brid, on the other hand, forsaking the teachings of her people and incurring the wrath of her powerful uncle and a sure sentence of death, is dead serious about Adam, and she goes through the time portal in search of him. Adam, who has by now left home to go to medical school, is unaware of her obsession and of the lifelong quest now set in motion.<br />Over the years, Adam makes new friends, becomes a doctor, gets married, and has a family, but Brid, trapped in the wrong time, begins to haunt them all, as she searches for Adam. Her obsession with him finally turns deadly, and the body count begins, as she seeks to tear him asunder from all whom he holds dear.<br />It is only fifty years into the nightmare that this obsessive love is finally put to rest. How this happens, and at what cost, will keep the reader turning the pages of this well written and imaginative novel.ritten and imaginative novel.	2001-05-13
2009597:US	49355567	R2PQZUS6MYTIA8	0440215625	983256815	Dragonfly in Amber: A Novel (Outlander)	Books	5	225	244	N	Y	A LOVE THAT TRANSCENDS TIME CONTINUES TO RIVET THE READER...	This is the second in a series of time travel, adventure/romance books by the author. There are four such novels published to date in what is hoped to be a series of six books. These novels have engaged readers everywhere, because of the author's masterful storytelling, as well as for the superlative use of historical detail which is woven into the tapestry in this most intriguing of stories.<br />While the core of the story is about a love that transcends time, it would be a disservice to label it a romance, as it is much more than that. It is a wonderful adventure story interspersed with actual historical events and authentic period detail. It is this attention to such matters by the skillful pen of the author that renders these books three dimensional and so enjoyable. They are positively addictive!<br />The love of the ages that binds these books is the love that twentieth century Claire Randall has for the eighteenth century Scottish highland warrior, James Fraser. Those of you who read the first book in the series, &quot;Outlander&quot;, know that in 1945, Claire, an Englishwoman and combat nurse during World War II, is reunited with her husband, Frank, after the war. While on a second honeymoon in Scotland, she visits a strange, flat topped hill in the highlands of Scotland, where a forbidding stone circle draws her. Touching one of the stones, she is hurled through a vortex in time and finds herself in eighteenth century Scotland, where she meets a brave and brawny, red headed Scot, James Fraser, with whom she falls completely in love, body and soul. Finding herself thrust into the midst of clan warfare and intrigue, she and her beloved 'Jamie' have enough adventures to last a lifetime, which makes for a riveting story.<br />This book is a continuation of that story. It is told from the perspective of the twentieth century where Claire, who is now a doctor, has lived for the past twenty years. Upon the death of her twentieth century husband, Frank, Claire returns to Scotland with her grown, red headed daughter, Brianna. There, she discloses to Brianna the events of her secret past, as well as the truth of whom Brianna's biological father actually is and of the love that Claire bore him.<br />While in Scotland, however, Claire discovers something that will forever change her future, as well as her past. You see, for the past twenty years, Claire has believed that her beloved 'Jamie' died in the historic battle of Culloden. It was there that the Scottish highlanders bravely fought the English in a misguided attempt to restore Charles Stuart, their bonny Prince Charlie, to the English throne, only to be decimated and branded as Jacobite traitors. It was this very event that she and James Fraser had conspired to change only to fail. It was this failure that brought Claire and 'Jamie' to a crossroad that would force them to part and have Brianna become a denizen of the twentieth century.<br />This book continues the saga so deftly begun in &quot;Outlander&quot;. It tells the story of what happened in the eighteenth century that ultimately caused Claire to leave the love of her life and return to the twentieth century. It recounts the plight of two star crossed lovers who make a desperate and valiant attempt to change the course of history. It regales the reader with the adventures they encounter along the way. It is a story that transports the reader from the turmoil of the Scottish highlands to the intrigue of the French Court.<br />Readers will be captivated by this amazing and compelling time travel saga.turns to Scotland with her grown, red headed daughter, Brianna. There, she discloses to Brianna the events of her secret past, as well as the truth of whom Brianna's biological father actually is and of the love that Claire bore him.<br />While in Scotland, however, Claire discovers something that will forever change her future, as well as her past. You see, for the past twenty years, Claire has believed that her beloved 'Jamie' died in the historic battle of Culloden. It was there that the Scottish highlanders bravely fought the English in a misguided attempt to restore Charles Stuart, their bonny Prince Charlie, to the English throne, only to be decimated and branded as Jacobite traitors. It was this very event that she and James Fraser had conspired to change only to fail. It was this failure that brought Claire and 'Jamie' to a crossroad that would force them to part and have Brianna become a denizen of the twentieth century.<br />This book continues the saga so deftly begun in &quot;Outlander&quot;. It tells the story of what happened in the eighteenth century that ultimately caused Claire to leave the love of her life and return to the twentieth century. It recounts the plight of two star crossed lovers who make a desperate and valiant attempt to change the course of history. It regales the reader with the adventures they encounter along the way. It is a story that transports the reader from the turmoil of the Scottish highlands to the intrigue of the French Court.<br />Readers will be captivated by this amazing and compelling time travel saga.	2001-05-05
2015683:US	49355567	R3JQJ31TEVNJAV	0440212561	983256815	Outlander	Books	5	40	47	N	Y	AN ABSOLUTELY RIVETING STORY!!!!!	A lover of historical fiction, adventure books, and books with a time travel theme, I hesitated buying this book, despite the very intriguing sounding plot, because it was labeled as being a romance novel. Still, curiosity won the day, and am I ever glad that it did! This has got to be one of the most engrossing and highly entertaining novels that I have ever read. Surprisingly well written, I was hooked almost immediately.<br />The novel begins in the year 1945, and the plot revolves around the adventures of Claire Randall, an Englishwoman and combat nurse during World War II, who is reunited with her husband, Frank, after the war. While on a second honeymoon in Scotland, she visits a strange flat topped hill in the highlands of Scotland, where a forbidding stone circle draws her. Touching one of the stones, she is hurled through a vortex in time and finds herself in eighteenth century Scotland.<br />There, she meets James Fraser, a brave and brawny Scotsman, and finds herself thrust into the midst of clan warfare and intrigue. Finding in Jamie a soulmate, she falls passionately in love, but is conflicted because of the feelings she harbors for the husband she left behind. She goes on, however, to have enough adventures to last a lifetime. What happens to these star crossed lovers in eighteenth century Scotland is riveting.<br />The author is a master storyteller and her use of historical detail is superlative. Those who love well written, historical fiction will be delighted. The book tells a rip roaring good story and is a veritable page turner. This is the first in a now published series of four books. Having read each and every one, all I can say is... Bravo! I love each and every one of them!	2001-04-30
2042207:US	49355567	RREFM7KM072TZ	1566398401	303731805	The Woman I Was Not Born To Be: A Transsexual Journey	Books	3	12	15	N	Y	SHE  WAS  MAN  ENOUGH  TO  BECOME  A  WOMAN...	This autobiographical work, written in a bold, brash, and breezy style, chronicles the journey of Buddy Crenshaw, a shy farm boy from rural Tennessee, who travels along the rocky road of transexualism. It is a journey which culminates in a career in the entertainment field as Aleshia Brevard. It is also an interesting, though bumpy ride, as \\"Buddy\\" comes to terms with the gender identity issues that so occupied her early life. Buddy finally made that leap of faith, and, in keeping with the maxim \\"to thine own self be true\\", metamorphosed into Aleshia Brevard.<br /><br />Her life's journey is written about with a great deal of humor, as well as pathos. Ms. Brevard is certainly resilient, having encountered sexism on both sides of the coin, first as a \\"sissy\\" boy, later as a buxom, bombshell starlet. Hers is a fascinating life, replete with questions as to what it really means to be a woman in today's society. It also offers a unique glimpse into the early history of surgical intervention for transexualism, as well as a candid view of the transgender experience. A transexual's journey is not an easy one, by any means.<br /><br />Through the author's experience, the reader can see that women may have come a long way, but still have a ways to go. It is interesting to see Ms. Brevard initially try to conform to stereotypic female norms, only to ultimately question a woman's assigned role in society, as she matures. In breaking away from societal expectations, she eventually becomes all the happier for it. Her journey in life is a quest for self-acceptance and an affirmation of the resiliency of the human spirit.	2001-04-07
2073001:US	49355567	RJW8VT6GTSA91	0304333948	309248215	Dear Sir or Madam: The Autobiography of a Female-To-Male Transsexual (Sexual politics)	Books	3	9	10	N	Y	TO SIR WITH LOVE...	This autobiographical account of the author's life focuses on  gender identity issues which appear to have governed most of his life. Anatomically a female, though somewhat androgynous in appearance, the author, named Brenda at birth, always felt as if he were a male trapped in a woman's body. This created many difficult life situations for him as he was growing up. The difficulties compounded themselves when &#34;Brenda&#34; reached puberty, as one may well imagine.<br />Never feeling that he belonged, yet wanting to be like other people, he struggled alone with these gender identity issues for many years. At one point in his young adult life, he was so depressed over his situation that he voluntarily entered a  psychiatric hospital. His autobiographical account is a bird's eye view of the suffering that society can inflict on a human being who means no harm to anyone, and who is only trying to find a way to fit in with that society.<br /><br />It was not until he realized that he was not alone, that there were others like him, that he began to realize that he could be helped. It was as a mature adult that he made the transition from female to male and became &#34;Mark&#34;. Only then did he start feeling a little more comfortable in his own skin. Yet, despite dressing as a male, hormone therapy, and surgical modification, he still had issues, as society would only legally recognize the gender assignement made at birth. This would forever consign him legally to being a female, placing him in a sort of legal limbo.<br /><br />The book is often poignant in that the author's desire for having a normal life is palpable. He really just wants to be like everyone else and do the things that everyone else does, such as, get a job commensurate with one's education and abilities, fall in love, get married, and have a family. Yet, all this seems to have eluded him, because of the gender identity issues which made it so difficult to attain his desired goals. Even after having become an elected official in the town where he grew up, the taunts of local children still plague him. Society may have come a long way in its understanding of these issues, but it, undoubtedly, has a long way to go.<br /><br />This book addresses issues that are in the social forefront today, but the author, though clearly intelligent, has a prosaic style of writing that does not fully engage the reader.  His is a voice with which to be reckoned, however, due to the dearth of literature on transexualism and its attendant, ancillary social issues.become an elected official in the town where he grew up, the taunts of local children still plague him. Society may have come a long way in its understanding of these issues, but it, undoubtedly, has a long way to go.<br /><br />This book addresses issues that are in the social forefront today, but the author, though clearly intelligent, has a prosaic style of writing that does not fully engage the reader.  His is a voice with which to be reckoned, however, due to the dearth of literature on transexualism and its attendant, ancillary social issues.	2001-03-11
2074972:US	49355567	R1XB491SCC4ZH4	0312975767	876875971	Don't Close Your Eyes	Books	5	23	24	N	Y	CARLENE THOMPSON ROCKS!	This is yet another well written, page turning, suspenseful read by Carlene Thompson. As far as I am concerned, Ms. Thompson is the maven for this genre. I have read all of her books to date, and she has yet to miss. This is a definite hit.<br />Here, twenty nine year old veterinarian Natalie St. John, reeling from a broken heart, returns to her childhood home in hopes of finding solace. On the heels of her arrival, an old time friend is cruelly murdered, and Natalie is thrust into a  situation for which she did not bargain.<br />As the plot thickens, so does the danger to Natalie, as people she knows meet violent deaths. The killer remains at large and seems to want to include Natalie among the dearly departed. Consequently, Natalie is thrust into the vortex of the investigation which is spearheaded by an attractive and available sheriff.<br />Who is the killer? That is the question that the reader will enjoy trying to answer, given the twists and turns in the book.	2001-03-09
2075281:US	49355567	RXVKIQTZJ5OWE	0785752374	998489163	The Listeners	Books	3	0	4	N	N	NOT PIKE'S PEAK...	Having previously read two outstanding books by Christopher Pike, \\"The Cold One\\" and \\"The Season of Passage\\", I eagerly picked up \\"The Listeners\\", thinking that I was getting another great read. Wrong! This book, while it has its moments, pales in comparison.<br /><br />The book gets off to a promising start, and the premise of the book is pretty straight forward. An FBI agent, David Connor, reeling from a bust gone bad, is asked to go undercover as a magazine reporter and investigate a channeling group called the Listeners, who channel an entity called the \\"Big Mind\\" which is a sort of collective consciousness, coupled with ancestral memory.<br /><br />Central to the Listeners existence is a set of identical twins, Lucy and Vera Temple, beautiful, young women who possess great psychic ability. When David meets them, there develops a mutual attraction between David and Lucy, and they ultimately fall in love. Little do they know that a great evil is waiting for them. Something primeval is lurking below the conscious surface, ready to spring forth and rock their world. When it does so, David is called upon to make the ultimate sacrifice to save mankind. What happens at the end, however, is sure to surprise the reader.	2001-03-09
2079924:US	49355567	R352LROLOT65BM	0879052716	741098868	Living on the Edge: The Winter Ascent of Kanchenjunga	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	PERSONAL , HARROWING ACCOUNT OF A WINTER HIMALAYAN CLIMB...	The author, Cherie Bremer-Kamp, and her lover, Chris Chandler, a medical doctor, together with the assistance of an inexperienced Sherpa guide, attempted in the dead of winter to climb the north face of Kanchenjunga, which, at 28,168 feet, is the third highest peak in the Himalayas.<br /><br />That these two, Cherie and Chris, shared a deep bond is undeniable, despite allusions to some kind of abusive behavior underlying their relationship. She and Chris met during the 1978 American ascent of K2, while she was married to another climber on that expedition. Their palpable attraction to each other was not lost on other members of that expedition, which caused a huge rift. This issue is recounted at length in Rick Ridgeway's engrossing chronicle of that expedition, \\"The Last Step\\". It was after that expedition that Cherie left her husband for Chris, her new found soul mate.<br /><br />Here, Cherie, obviously embittered by Ridgeway's account, counters with her own reminiscences of that expedition, describing the philosophical divide that had developed, an everyman for himself philosophy versus that of the brotherhood of the rope, in which one climber places his or her life in the hands of another. Cherie, as well as Chris, philosophically subscribed to the latter. It was this belief that made them foreswear large expeditions for the close communion available to those climbing in lightweight Alpine style.<br /><br />Before telling of their 1985 winter climb of Kanchenjunga, the author describes a few of their other adventures, making it clear that living on the edge was a way of life for them. She and Chris were passionately devoted to each other. It was a passion that arose deep within them, cemented by their mutual love for the mountains and for adventure, a lifestyle that demanded a symbiotic relationship. It was a demand that they had no trouble meeting.<br /><br />Cherie's account of their journey to Kanchenjunga is highly descriptive and quite engrossing. Her love of people and places is evident in the way she writes about the journey. It is always a very personal account, filled with feeling. One can almost taste the anticipation with which she and Chris looked forward to their climb. Yet, while Cherie and Chris were experienced climbers and appeared to have made adequate preparations, it seemed that the forces of nature were conspiring against them.<br /><br />The rigors of the actual climb were grueling, as they were met head on with jet stream force winds, which, when coupled with excruciatingly piercing cold, meant that they were exposed to an environment completely hostile to most living creatures. The forces of nature with which they collided, as they ascended Kanchenjunga, were literally enough to take one's breath away. It was so cold that the tensile steel posts on their crampons were breaking off. Yet, they persevered and continued climbing, driven on by their own inner resources, with tragic consequences.<br /><br />In climbing Kanchenjunga, no two could have been better prepared, each having had prior Himalayan climbing experience. Moreover, with Chris being a medical doctor and Cherie being a nurse, it can be said that they were probably better prepared than most to recognize or address any medical emergencies while on the mountain. Yet, all their combined experience and knowledge was, ultimately, insufficient to forestall the death of Chris on that most cruel of mountains. With his death, Kanchenjunga had ultimately defeated them.<br /><br />This poignantly told tale is one that will enthrall all climbing enthusiasts, as well as those readers who simply love a well told story. The many color pictures that accompany the text are beautiful and, in and of themselves, serve to explain the draw that such mountains may have for some.of people and places is evident in the way she writes about the journey. It is always a very personal account, filled with feeling. One can almost taste the anticipation with which she and Chris looked forward to their climb. Yet, while Cherie and Chris were experienced climbers and appeared to have made adequate preparations, it seemed that the forces of nature were conspiring against them.<br /><br />The rigors of the actual climb were grueling, as they were met head on with jet stream force winds, which, when coupled with excruciatingly piercing cold, meant that they were exposed to an environment completely hostile to most living creatures. The forces of nature with which they collided, as they ascended Kanchenjunga, were literally enough to take one's breath away. It was so cold that the tensile steel posts on their crampons were breaking off. Yet, they persevered and continued climbing, driven on by their own inner resources, with tragic consequences.<br /><br />In climbing Kanchenjunga, no two could have been better prepared, each having had prior Himalayan climbing experience. Moreover, with Chris being a medical doctor and Cherie being a nurse, it can be said that they were probably better prepared than most to recognize or address any medical emergencies while on the mountain. Yet, all their combined experience and knowledge was, ultimately, insufficient to forestall the death of Chris on that most cruel of mountains. With his death, Kanchenjunga had ultimately defeated them.<br /><br />This poignantly told tale is one that will enthrall all climbing enthusiasts, as well as those readers who simply love a well told story. The many color pictures that accompany the text are beautiful and, in and of themselves, serve to explain the draw that such mountains may have for some.	2001-03-05
2081018:US	49355567	R2XBR17GHYT2ZP	0151134324	388417058	Boldest Dream: The Story of Twelve Who Climbed Mount Everest	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	HI-HO!  HI-HO!  IT'S OFF TO EVEREST WE GO....	This is a chronicle of the 1976 American Bicentennial Everest Expedition. It is told by one of the twelve climbers who made that memorable journey to Everest. It describes the expedition, warts and all, as personal ambitions collided with reality. It is a story of hopes and dreams, of despair and anguish, but most of all, it is about twelve human beings from all different walks of life, each of whom made a significant contribution to the ultimate success of the venture.<br /><br />It was interesting to read about the unusual way in which the expedition came about, as well as how the much sought after permit was ultimately obtained. The name of the expedition  was  crucial in getting necessary sponsors, but how the expedition got its name was also fortuitous. It seemed like everything initially just fell into place.<br /><br />While actually on expedition, however, the personalities of all the climbers rose to the surface, and there were skirmishes as egos clashed over who would be on the summit teams. The only person who did not appear to get a fair shot at a summit berth was Arlene Blum, who also happened to be one of the two women on the team and one of the few expeditioners with actual Himalayan climbing experience.<br /><br />Yet, when two members of the expedition reached the summit of  Everest, everyone put aside their dashed hopes and dreams, rejoicing in the success and good fortune of the two who had reached the top of the world.	2001-03-05
2091811:US	49355567	R2EZ1Z6H5Z6ZP4	0792276965	649810445	Regions of the Heart: The Triumph and Tragedy of Alison Hargreaves (Adventure Press)	Books	3	14	14	N	Y	TRIUMPH TOO QUICKLY FOLLOWED BY TRAGEDY...	Alison Hargreaves was probably one of the most enigmatic climbers of this century. Isolated from the mountaineering community at large for the better part of her career, it was not until she climbed Everest without support and without supplementary oxygen that she got the recognition she so craved.  Her solo ascent of Everest without oxygen was the first ever such summit by a woman.<br /><br />Her need for that recognition was twofold. She seemed to lack personal self-esteem, as a result of her marriage to a man who was emotionally and physically abusive. She also seemed to have a lack of confidence, at times, in her innate ability as a climber, needing validation from the mountaineering community, a validation which seemed to be long in coming. Yet, it was only on the mountains that she felt in control, because her personal life was so out of control. Indecisive about what to do about her unhappy marriage, the mountains gave her hope that she would be able to secure herself and her children financially and free herself from the bondage of an unhappy union.<br /><br />When she triumphed on Everest, and her future as a climber of reknown seem assured, she almost immediately set out on expedition under pressure from her husband to summit K2, leaving behind her two beloved young children.  While she ultimately met with success and reached the summit of K2, she descended head long into a storm with gale force winds. Sadly, she never got off the mountain, consigned to the environs of K2 for all time.<br /><br />Her death created a maelstrom of controversy at the time, over the idea of a mother with two small children having put herself so at risk of  leaving them motherless. Sadly, it was women journalists who spearheaded this sentiment, threatening to destroy Ms. Hargreaves' reputation in death. This was clearly a double standard, as many who die while climbing are men who are fathers to small children. Yet, in  death they are not pilloried for having left their children fatherless. Rather, they are often heralded for their daring and courage in attempting to scale new heights.<br /><br />This book chronicles Ms. Hargreaves' life and her love of climbing. It attempts to paint a balanced portrait of a woman so little known to the world at large, but who made mountaineering history just before her death. It explores her personal life, not only as a wife and mother, but as a person for whom climbing was her life's blood. The author attempts to understand her approach to climbing, as well as her exploits, and ground them in the context out of which they arose. It is the story of an ordinary woman who just before her death made herself extraordinary. Although the author recounts Ms. Hargreaves' life in a somewhat prosaic manner, it is definitely a book well worth reading.n fatherless. Rather, they are often heralded for their daring and courage in attempting to scale new heights.<br /><br />This book chronicles Ms. Hargreaves' life and her love of climbing. It attempts to paint a balanced portrait of a woman so little known to the world at large, but who made mountaineering history just before her death. It explores her personal life, not only as a wife and mother, but as a person for whom climbing was her life's blood. The author attempts to understand her approach to climbing, as well as her exploits, and ground them in the context out of which they arose. It is the story of an ordinary woman who just before her death made herself extraordinary. Although the author recounts Ms. Hargreaves' life in a somewhat prosaic manner, it is definitely a book well worth reading.	2001-02-23
2092416:US	49355567	R11P8MXOHFSA6B	089886402X	199635985	Altitude Illness: Prevention & Treatment : How to Stay Healthy at Altitude : From Resort Skiing to Himalayan Climbing	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	DON'T LEAVE HOME WITHOUT IT...	This is a wonderful, well written and well organized little book, sized to travel with its owner. It fits easily into one's pocket for easy access. It provides valuable information at one's fingertips. One should read this book before climbing or trekking above 7,000 feet (2,000 meters). It could save one's life.<br /><br />The book is chock full of valuable information, and everything is explained in laymen's language. It explains what altitude sickness is, so that one may recognize its presence, and advises the reader on how to prevent it. It also provides treatment information for the various types of altitude illnesses to which one may fall prey.<br /><br />This is a must have book for anyone who wants to stay healthy while scaling new heights. If one should think that this book is unnecessary, one need only pause to reflect upon the dedication found on the flyleaf of the book, &#34;To those who died of altitude sickness&#34;. Enough said!	2001-02-23
2097362:US	49355567	R2OHK3G3687B2R	0451181956	223529608	House of Echoes	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	AN EERIE, SENSUAL, AND ATMOSPHERIC HAUNTED HOUSE STORY	This is a beautifully written novel about a haunted manor in the English countryside. It is the story of a young, married woman, Jocelyn Grant, who inherits that country manor, Belheddon Hall, from her biological mother whom she never knew, as she had put her up for adoption a few months after her birth. Jocelyn, her husband, Luke, and her young son, Tom, happily move into the house, despite having heard warnings from the local townspeople that there is something quite odd about the house.<br /><br />That happiness, however, soon turns to dread, as Jocelyn and her family begin to hear the laughter of young boys echoing throughout the house, as well as see physical manifestations of a knight in armour. Moreover, the scent of roses, at times, permeates the house, and someone or something keeps leaving white roses strewn throughout Belheddon Hall.<br /><br />Jocelyn also begins to hear a ghostly voice calling out to someone named Katherine and finds herself being sensuously touched by someone other than her husband; someone whom she does not see, until it is too late. Her son, Tom, often sees an apparition, whom he refers to as the &#34;tin man&#34;, and wakes up with bruises all over his body. Her fear is compounded when she realizes that no male heir has ever lived to inherit Belheddon Hall, and that the house has come down to her by strict, matrilineal descent.<br /><br />Understanding the implications of her realization, and by now having two young sons about which to worry, she fights against the disbelief of her husband to combat the evil that lies at the root of the strange and frightening happenings at the Hall. How this is accomplished, and the story brought to its chilling climax, is what keeps the reader riveted to the very end. The book is absolutely gripping.	2001-02-19
2099732:US	49355567	ROTO1R4QSRNNH	0312968078	129276719	Tonight You're Mine: A Novel Of Psychological Suspense	Books	5	24	24	N	Y	MYSTERY, ROMANCE, AND SUSPENSE...ALL ROLLED INTO ONE	The author is simply one of the best writers of this genre. She is better than Mary Higgins Clark who is the maven for this type of book. Ms. Thompson keeps the reader guessing, with so many twists and turns in the plot as to keep the reader in suspense until the very end. It is an absorbing and compelling page turner.<br /><br />Fifteen years ago, a vivacious, nineteen year old college student, Nicole Sloan, was having a scintillating love affair with handsome, sophisticated, world reknowned pianist, Paul Dominic. Little did she realize that her world would crumble, when she was tossed into a maelstrom of violence that would change her life, as well as Paul's, forever.<br /><br />Now thirty four years old, Niclole is mother to a precocious eight year girl and married to a philandering college professor, Roger Chandler, who is leaving her for a twenty year old college student. Adding to her personal pain is the fact that her beloved father inexplicably commits suicide. As her personal life begins to fall apart around her, she is also beset by a series of murders which appear to be happening to people whom she knows. Somehow, these events are tied into the violent and tragic events of her past.<br /><br />Moreover, Paul Dominic, the man whom she loved and believed to have died in a car crash shortly after her life was ripped apart by violence fifteen years earlier, may not be dead after all. Or is he? Confused by the mayhem which seems to be happening around her, and baffled by her sighting of a man who reminds her of Paul and who appears to be watching over her, Nicole sets about trying to unravel a seeming tapestry of intrigue. It is only in understanding her past, however, that her present will make itself clear.	2001-02-17
2110099:US	49355567	R31ICKKDKUQXN7	0553274503	571684273	Flowers for Algernon (Bantam Classic)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	MOVING AND THOUGHT PROVOKING...	This is a wonderful and highly original novel about a mentally challenged man named Charlie who wanted to be smart. One day, his wish was granted. A group of scientists selected him for an experimental operation that raised his intelligence to genius level. Suddenly, Charlie found himself transformed, and life, as he knew it, changed.<br /><br />His story is told entirely through Charlie's eyes and perceptions in the form of progress reports. The reader actually sees the change in Charlie take place, as his progress reports become more complex, well written, and filled with the angst of personal discovery and growth, as well as with his gradual awareness of his amazing and accelerated intellectual development.<br /><br />The progress reports are a wonderful contrivance for facilitating the story, and the reader is one with Charlie on his voyage of self-discovery. What happens to Charlie in the long run is profoundly moving and thought provoking. It is no wonder that this author was the recipient of the Nebula Award which is given by the Science Fiction Writers of America for having written the Best Novel of the Year. This is definitely a book well worth reading.	2001-02-08
2116586:US	49355567	R20L6DM1RU7M6A	0312972741	825743722	In the Event of My Death	Books	5	15	17	N	Y	MOVE OVER MARY HIGGINS CLARK...THE HEIR APPARENT IS HERE	If you are a reader who enjoys novels of suspense, then surely you will find this one to be a rip-roaring good read. There are enough red herrings, enough twists and turns, to keep one guessing until the very end. So, hang on to your seat and enjoy the ride!<br />The premise here is simple. Thirteen years ago, six teenage girls who had formed a secret club called the Six of Hearts, decide to let loose, drink, and dabble in a psuedo satanic ritual in a deserted farmhouse in Wheeling, West Virginia. Before the night is over, one of them ends up dead. The surviving five swear to a pact of secrecy to never reveal what really happened.<br />Thirteen years later, one of them dies a violent death at the hand of an unknown person who leaves behind a clue that those who were members of the Six of Hearts club are at risk. Laurel Damron, a flower shop owner and one of the club members, begins to receive chilling mementos which can only mean one thing: that she, too, is marked for death. One by one, all the remaining club members claim to have received frightening mail which lead them all to the same conclusion as Laurel.<br />Who will be next, and who is responsible for this? That is a question upon which the reader may well ponder, as the reader sifts through the byzantine twists in the plot. Gripping and absorbing, this novel is sure to hold the reader in suspense until the very end.	2001-02-03
2123155:US	49355567	RVYCGDVWD0Y7R	0312963319	244281571	The Way You Look Tonight	Books	5	19	21	N	Y	A GRIPPING  AND HIGHLY ABSORBING THRILLER...	This is a terrific novel of suspense, offering the reader a riveting, page turning read. It is hard to put down, once the reader is in its thrall. Well written in spare, clean prose, it will keep most readers guessing until the very end.<br /><br />The premise is fairly simple. Deborah Robinson, a young woman and mother of an adorable and precocious set of five year old twins, suddenly has the bottom drop out of her world when her husband, Steve, a prosecuting attorney, suddenly disappears without warning. Shortly thereafter, she is stunned to discover  that he is suspected of being a serial killer who, for the past eight years, has been killing young women fitting a description that matches hers.<br /><br />Delving into her husband's past, she uncovers information of which she was previously unaware, which causes her to question  just what her husband may really have been hiding. Yet, despite all that she discovers, she believes steadfastedly that her husband is not what he is suspected of being.<br /><br />At the same time that this is going on, the man who had fifteen years earlier been convicted of brutally beating and raping Steve's sister, Emily, causing her to be institutionalized, is released from prison and believed to be in the area seeking revenge. Does this also have something to do with Steve's disappearance?<br /><br />Things are not always what they seem, as the reader will discover. There are enough plausible twists and turns in this novel of suspense to satisfy even the most exacting and demanding of readers. This is a gripping read from beginning to end and one of the best of its genre.	2001-01-29
2123186:US	49355567	RWCXQJK8ZU4RU	0060977035	779968831	Still Missing	Books	5	38	41	N	N	HEARTWRENCHING, COMPELLING, AND BEAUTIFULLY WRITTEN...	This is a story of hope, loss, and faith, despite seemingly insurmountable odds. It is the story of a mother's belief that her six year old son, who was abducted while on his way to school, is alive somewhere and just still missing.<br /><br />Harvard University professor Susan Selky, seperated from her husband, Graham, lets her six year old son, Alex, walk the several blocks to his school all by himself. One morning she says good bye to him, not realizing until later in the day when he does not return home after school, that he simply never made it to school that morning.<br /><br />The police are notified and an immediate manhunt ensues for the missing boy. The story follows the impact that the boy's disappearance has on Susan and Graham, as well as the reaction of those closest to them and of the public at large. It explores their relationship, as well as their relationship with others in the context of the tragedy which has befallen them. You definitely feel her pain.<br /><br />Sensitively drawn and well written, the books explores the avenues that Susan travels in her steadfast search for her son. What happens is sure to keep the reader on the edge of his or her seat. The author plays on the reader's emotions and keeps the tension taut throughout the story, making for a real pager turner of a book. The suspense is kept up until the very end, where it boils over into a crescendo of a finale. This is, without a doubt, one of the best suspense novels to be found.	2001-01-29
2124291:US	49355567	R27IWSG061ANXO	0553576887	860246183	Hear No Evil	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	A  QUICK,  EASY  READ...	This is a mildly entertaining, quick read.  There is, however, little character development, as it is primarily a plot driven novel of moderate suspense.  It is also not as good as her other suspense novel &#34;Whose Little Girl Are You&#34;, which is much more interesting.<br /><br />As with her other book, the plot revolves around family ties. Here, a young woman, Eden, in her early thirties is called back home after a fifteen year absence, as her grandmother who raised her had an accident, breaking her leg. Her granny is is a psychic who runs a hotline.  Eden is a gifted mimic, and her granny needs her to answer her psychic hotline while she recuperates in the hospital.<br /><br />Moreover, a child, ostensibly that of her sister, Mimi, has been left at her granny's house, and Eden has been charged with her care in the interim, as Mimi is nowhere to be found.  This child, Peyton, has had an apparently hard life, because Mimi has made poor choices with respect to her companions.  It is clear that the child has been traumatized.<br />Unbeknownst to either Eden or her grandmother, Mimi had sent her child to her granny's house in the hope that she would find safety.  You see, Mimi is being hunted by two very violent terrorists, who will stop at nothing to silence her and Peyton about what they may know about some of their recent terrorist activity. While all this is going on, Eden keeps getting calls on the psychic hotline from a woman who identifies herself as &#34;Constance&#34;, but who Eden suspects may be none other than Mimi.<br /><br />Meanwhile, Owen, granny's good looking next door neighbor and an ex cop, finds himself attracted to Eden, and she to him. He looks out for Eden and her granny of whom he is fond and tries to locate Mimi for them. He may, however, be too late, as Mimi is at the end of her tether, and those who hunt her are nipping at her heels.  What happens next is harrowing.	2001-01-28
2134690:US	49355567	R3JZPDUOWBNHP0	039608026X	895906618	Wife Found Slain	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A KILLER BOOK...	I was going through some of my old, never before read paperbacks the other day, and I found this one. The title grabbed me, so I picked it up. It turned out to be a well written novel of suspense. It is a quick, easy read, sure to entertain those readers who enjoy mysteries, thrillers and suspense novels.<br />The story revolves around a young woman who gets a secretarial job in the city and ends up having an affair with her boss, who happens to have a house in the suburbs, a wife, and two kids. They fall in love and before you know it, his wife is found murdered in her home. The reader pretty much knows who is responsible for the murder, but after a trial, the responsible party literally gets away with murder.<br />After the trial, the two lovers marry and have children of their own. Then thirteen years later, the wife appears to have a terrible, life threatening car crash. A terrible accident... or is it?<br />The story is told, in part, from the perspective of the hospitalized wife who begins to recollect her past in flash backs, as she struggles to remember who she is and what happened to her. As she remembers the events that lead up to the car &quot;accident&quot; that put her into the hospital, she confronts the past and the impact that it has on her future. You see, she now believes that someone is trying to kill her.<br />The reader surmises who might be behind such a plot long before the wife does, yet is with her as she undergoes her own discovery process. Her observations of her husband's current behavior, as well as her knowledge of what had transpired many years before, ultimately make him suspect in her eyes, as she no longer views him with the same naivete that she had when she first met him. Her only objective now is to stay alive. The reader's only question is...Will she?	2001-01-19
2140341:US	49355567	RDAYZ99AUEQX4	0553576917	846483733	Whose Little Girl are You?	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A GOOD BOOK IS HARD TO PUT DOWN..	This is a gripping, page turner that is hard to put down, once the reader has picked it up. Fast paced and highly suspenseful, the story revolves around a female character named Jaye Garrett. Independent, intelligent, and resourceful, the epitome of a modern woman, thirty three year old Jaye is stunned to learn that not only is her beloved brother, Patrick, practically on his death bed with leukemia, but that only a bone marrow transplant can save him. When she quickly offers hers up, she is stunned to find out that both she and her brother are not related by blood , as they were both adopted in private \\"black market\\" adoptions.<br /><br />Determined to find Patrick's blood relatives in the hope of finding one who is a match for a bone marrow transplant that could save his life, Jaye embarks on a journey that takes her to Cawdor, Oklahoma, where she teams up with an attorney from Philadelphia who is there on his own similar quest on behalf of a client. In Cawdor, their investigation brings them into conflict with a group of people who will do anything to stop the past from being revived.  When Jaye relentlessly rakes up the past in order to find those who have the potential to save her beloved brother's life, she sets in motion a series of events that could cost her own life. These people will stop at nothing, not even murder, to quell inquiry into a part of  the town's history that will not withstand scrutiny.<br /><br />This book will appeal to those readers who enjoy thrillers, mysteries, novels of suspense, or just a good, quick, page turning read. This one delivers!	2001-01-14
2140488:US	49355567	R1T2O8LDXYN6EL	0553801341	255570129	From the Corner of His Eye	Books	4	26	31	N	Y	...AND A CHILD SHALL LEAD THEM	This book is an interesting melange of genres. It is at once mystical, suspenseful, horror filled, part sci-fi, and tinged with the supernatural. Add to this a little boy with beautiful eyes, who is a child prodigy, gifted beyond his years, and capable of entering parallel universes or realities; a child who can literally walk in the rain without getting wet. Add yet another unusually gifted child prodigy named &quot;Angel&quot; who was conceived out of a violent rape. Mix in the rapist, who is also a socio-pathic killer, a priest turned cop who is aware of the existence of parallel or alternate realities, because he has the ability to send inanimate objects there, and stir in a woman whose goodness is almost legendary. What do you have? You have a best seller on your hands!<br />The book is a very quick, easy read. You won't want to put it down. The only real criticism is the fact that about twenty five years are crammed into the last dozen pages. It is as if the author had a limit on how long the book could be and had to have it end before it exceeded the limit. Having taken about six hundred pages to get to a certain stage, it was a little jarring to go at warp speed for the last dozen pages. Still, all in all, it is a good read.	2001-01-14
2141385:US	49355567	R3QNJOUNY3YR8E	0375706771	930468436	Midwives (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	EXQUISITELY WRITTEN AND ABSORBING...A NOVEL TO REMEMBER	This beautifully crafted novel is set in 1981 when a midwife, leading an otherwise uncomplicated and simple life with her husband and daughter in rural Vermont, is thrust into a legal, moral, political, and ethical nightmare. It evolves around a split second decision made in a life and death situation and the aftermath of that decision.<br /><br />An experienced and respected midwife, Sibyl Danforth, attends a  woman during a home birth. When she realizes that dangerous complications have set in, she tries to call for help in vain, as a severe ice storm has knocked out the phone lines. An attempt to drive the expectant mother to a hospital only results in the car being wedged into an icy snow bank, as travel conditions were impossible.<br /><br />Trapped in this isolated home with a physically fragile, expectant mother in the throes of a labor that will not bear fruit, Sybil struggles to do the best that she can. Unfortunately, her best is just not good enough, given the complications that had set in, and the expectant mother appears to succumb to the ravages of a laborious childbirth.<br /><br />Under the belief that the expectant mother had died, Sibyl performs an emergency caesarean section in an effort to save the unborn child. She successfully does so, presenting the stricken husband with an infant son. Yet, the next day, her assistant, Anne, who had been present throughout the ordeal, denounces Sibyl to the authorities, claiming that the expectant mother had, in fact, been alive, when Sibyl had commenced the caesarean. Consequently, Sibyl is charged with manslaughter, and the political winds blown by the traditional medical establishment, as well as that of the legal system, threaten to tear asunder all that she holds dear.<br /><br />The story of this event, its aftermath, and the impact it had on many lives, is told through the eyes of Sibyl's daughter who had been a young teenager at the time of the incident, and through the pages of Sibyl's journal. The book takes the reader through a number of moral dilemmas for Sibyl, as well as for her daughter who is forced to come of age during this time of trial and tribulation for her family. Absorbing and often surprising, this sensitively wrought novel is a well nuanced literary gem from a gifted writer.ok takes the reader through a number of moral dilemmas for Sibyl, as well as for her daughter who is forced to come of age during this time of trial and tribulation for her family. Absorbing and often surprising, this sensitively wrought novel is a well nuanced literary gem from a gifted writer.	2001-01-13
2142248:US	49355567	R2S3MAJY6T07XM	0679771476	887180857	The Law of Similars	Books	4	8	9	N	N	SIMILAR IS THE OPERATIVE WORD...	This is a very well written book, though a little disconcerting in its thematic similarity to the author's previous novel, \\"Midwives\\", which is the superior of the two. Yet again, the medical and legal professions are in some conflict, and it makes for some interesting, though questionable, moral choices.<br /><br />Here, a widowed prosecuting attorney, Leland Fowler, the single parent of a young child, is living in a rural town in Vermont. Not having felt well for months, he visits the town's resident homeopath and finds himself feeling better, both physically and emotionally, because the homeopath, Clarissa Lake, is just what the doctor ordered.<br /><br />Shortly after Clarissa and Leland connect, a patient of hers goes into anaphylactic shock, digresses  into a coma and dies, ostensibly after eating cashews to which he was allergic, after a casual conversation with Clarissa and a belief in the homeopathic law of similars that like cures like. Leland, emotionally involved with Clarissa, becomes embroiled in a covert attempt to shield her from the legal repercussions that he knows could follow such a tragedy, even though it might not have been entirely of her making. It is here that the book unravels a bit.<br /><br />This ethical digression on the part of Leland is somewhat difficult to believe, as he had had a very brief relationship with Clarissa. It is almost inconceivable that he would chance losing his entire professional future and the security that his profession provides his small daughter to engage in a major ethical breach. A breach so serious, that were it to come to light, would almost certainly result in his probable disbarment from the practice of law. Needless to say, this decision by him ultimately affects their relationship in a way not foreseen by Leland.<br /><br />Nonetheless, the book is somewhat absorbing and well worth reading.	2001-01-13
2158552:US	49355567	R1XMFA0OWUUP4D	0898867398	710569971	Nanda Devi: The Tragic Expedition	Books	5	39	41	N	Y	THE EXPEDITION FROM HELL...	This is a gripping chronicle of the 1976 Indo-American Nanda Devi Expedition which saw the author, Lou Reichardt, and Jim States summit Nanda Devi, a 26,000 foot plus peak located in the northwest frontier of India. They succeeded in making one of the most technically demanding climbs in the Himalayas.<br />They also survived one of the most acrimonious and tragic of expeditions, as it ended with the needless death of Nanda Devi Unsoeld, daughter of mountaineering legend, Willi Unsoeld, who was co-leader of the expedition. Named after the mountain which her father so loved, Nanda Devi Unsoeld was consigned in death to her namesake. It was she who had been the driving force in the creation of the expedition, spurred on by her desire to climb the mountain for which she had been named, not knowing that death would await her on its slopes.<br />This expedition, which was replete with mountaineering greats, started off on the wrong foot, as it had two co-leaders, Willi Unsoeld and Ad Carter, neither of whom was willing to take a real leadership role and make decisive decisions. This saw the expedition fracture into two groups, with a great deal of acrimony between the two, as a philosophical divide developed. The author paints a picture of what life was like on this expedition. It is a no holds barred portrait, warts and all, unflattering to the author, as well as to others on this expedition.<br />While Roskelley was clearly a mountaineer of superior ability, as compared with others on the team, it is probable that his brusque manner helped to divide the expedition into what was perceived to be the &quot;A&quot; and &quot;B&quot; teams. It was the delivery, I surmise, and not the message, which rankled others and prompted them to behave badly which they, undoubtedly, did during the course of the expedition.<br />What is inexplicable to me, however, is Willi Unsoeld's handling of his daughter's illness on the expedition, and his behavior at her mysterious and unexpected death on the mountain. One would expect more from an expedition leader, never mind a father. It is almost as if he relished consigning her to the mountain in death, with all its mystical implications. A sad end for a being who in life was beautiful and joyous, yet certainly the stuff around which legends are created. In fact, some believed that the goddess Nanda Devi had been reborn as Wlli Unsoeld's daughter, living as a mortal and unaware of her divinity, until she returned to her home, the mountain for which she had been named.<br />The book is written in lean, spare prose, with enough mountaineering lore and tidbits to engage all climbing enthusiasts, as well as readers who simply love a good adventure story.death on the mountain. One would expect more from an expedition leader, never mind a father. It is almost as if he relished consigning her to the mountain in death, with all its mystical implications. A sad end for a being who in life was beautiful and joyous, yet certainly the stuff around which legends are created. In fact, some believed that the goddess Nanda Devi had been reborn as Wlli Unsoeld's daughter, living as a mortal and unaware of her divinity, until she returned to her home, the mountain for which she had been named.<br />The book is written in lean, spare prose, with enough mountaineering lore and tidbits to engage all climbing enthusiasts, as well as readers who simply love a good adventure story.	2000-12-31
2163005:US	49355567	R1NA9IEDMIR7BI	0671038443	79347454	The Devil's Teardrop	Books	5	17	18	N	Y	MILLENNIUM MADNESS...	Author Jeffrey Deaver does it again! This is an immensely entertaining, page turning read for all thriller enthusiasts. The story line centers around an unknown killer unleashed upon Washington, D.C.. Known as the \\"Digger\\", this maniacal killer proceeds into D.C.'s Metro Station at 9:00 AM on New Year's Eve 1999 and begins a shooting spree that leaves many dead. The Digger has been instructed by an unknown criminal mastermind accomplice to kill hordes of people at clocked intervals on the eve of the millennium, unless a twenty million dollar demand for ransom is met. The ransom note is the only communication from this criminal genius who alone can control the actions of the killer. D.C.'s mayor agrees to pay the staggering ransom, but on the way to the drop, the accomplice appears to have been killed in a freak traffic accident. Who can now stop the \\"Digger\\" from his appointed rounds?<br /><br />Enter Parker Kincaid, document examiner extraordinaire and former FBI agent. Kincaid has been called back as a consultant to assist the FBI who need to stop the killer before he kills again. Kincaid is a wonderful, fully fleshed character. A single parent with his own share of troubles, he is as interesting as is Lincoln Rhyme, another of Deaver's characters around whom several of his books have revolved. Interestingly enough, Rhyme has a cameo appearance in this book which should give Deaver's fans an added kick while reading this book. Like Rhyme, Kincaid is a master of deductive reasoning and is a thinking person's detective. It is interesting how his analysis of the ransom note provides clues for the FBI to follow up in their quest to stop the killer before it is too late.<br /><br />The book is filled with numerous plot twists and turns, which should provide even the most jaded devotees of thrillers with a satisfying read. This action packed book keeps the reader guessing. Just when you think it's all over, you are yet once again surprised. The only criticism is that the end of the book strains the imagination. It almost borders on the absurd. Yet such is Deaver's writing that this does not impact unduly on the absolute enjoyment one will get from reading this book. It is a riveting read!e end of the book strains the imagination. It almost borders on the absurd. Yet such is Deaver's writing that this does not impact unduly on the absolute enjoyment one will get from reading this book. It is a riveting read!	2000-12-28
2173166:US	49355567	R2SZQZGKXJW3AP	0804113866	629144278	Life After Death: A Renowned Psychic Reveals What Happens to Us When We Die	Books	2	10	18	N	Y	SUPERFICIAL TREATMENT OF A PROVOCATIVE TOPIC...	This is a quick, easy read of a provocative and timely topic, considering that baby boomers are aging rapidly. It is unfortunate, however, that the reader does not get to know much about the author or her alleged psychic gift. This has the effect of creating somewhat of a credibility gap between the reader and the author, making what the author has to say not particularly believable. Perhaps, if the author had given more information about herself and her gift, the accounts that she gives would ring more true. This would have made the book more effective. As it stands, the book, although somewhat thought provoking at times, lacks depth, and fails to fully capture the reader.	2000-12-17
2178344:US	49355567	R379CQSQBBE2AP	0060953616	46075101	Climbing High: A Woman's Account of Surviving the Everest Tragedy	Books	3	27	32	N	Y	EVEREST AS A TROPHY MOUNTAIN...	This is yet another perspective of the 1996 Everest tragedy by a survivor of the fiasco. Written in journal style, the author at times frames her thoughts in a staccato, stream of consciousness, rambling fashion, coupled with new age psycho babble. At other times, she intones in a pseudo profound way about Everest. The author comes off as a silly, vapid individual.<br />It is interesting to note that while the author refers to Scott Fischer's expedition (of which she was a member) as an environmental one with a mission to clean up the debris on Everest left by expeditioners, nowhere does she state what it was that those on Scott Fischer's expedition were going to do to ameliorate the mess on the mountain. While she climbs up and down Everest, acclimatizing herself, she does not appear to be doing anything that remotely resembles conservation or clean up. Nor does she indicate any affirmative interest in doing anything constructive to that end.<br />She intones about the consequences of hubris up on the mountain. Yet, she, who had never before climbed Everest, was insisting that she would climb it without oxygen. She was even getting into arguments about it with Scott Fischer, who had the sense to tell her she would be climbing with oxygen. As it turned out, he was right. She could barely make it with oxygen. She should thank her lucky stars that he was so insistent that she climb with oxygen, otherwise she, too, would probably have died on Everest.<br />She also incessantly refers to herself as a mountain climber, but she didn't even know what gear she should take, relying on the recommendations of others, and then criticizing their recommendations when they ran counter to her expectations. It is clear, no matter how she wants to dress up her reasons for climbing Everest, that it was just a trophy mountain for her. She hoped that climbing Everest would gild the path for her to some psuedo celebrity status in her country of Denmark.<br />Her take on Anatoli Boukreev is much more sympathetic than was Jon Krakauer's in his book Into Thin Air. She saw Anatoli as an asset and misunderstood because of his taciturn demeanor. Anatoli comes off very well in this account. In fact, her take on him is much more sympathetic than her take on Scott Fischer, in whom she was apparently disappointed as an expedition leader. I must say if she acted the way she described in her book, then Scott Fischer, who was a true mountaineer, must of been heartily sick of her bravado about climbing Everest without oxygen. Her inflated sense of self is truly staggering at times. When she talks about hubris, she would do well to look no further than her own mirror.<br />Notwithstanding all of this, her account has some merit. As an Everest junkie, I found parts of her journal to be of interest, which is why I rated it three stars, rather than two.is much more sympathetic than was Jon Krakauer's in his book Into Thin Air. She saw Anatoli as an asset and misunderstood because of his taciturn demeanor. Anatoli comes off very well in this account. In fact, her take on him is much more sympathetic than her take on Scott Fischer, in whom she was apparently disappointed as an expedition leader. I must say if she acted the way she described in her book, then Scott Fischer, who was a true mountaineer, must of been heartily sick of her bravado about climbing Everest without oxygen. Her inflated sense of self is truly staggering at times. When she talks about hubris, she would do well to look no further than her own mirror.<br />Notwithstanding all of this, her account has some merit. As an Everest junkie, I found parts of her journal to be of interest, which is why I rated it three stars, rather than two.	2000-12-12
2181085:US	49355567	R1JXCBS9W4X40C	0553581767	328989327	Manhattan Is My Beat (Rune)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	A  BRASH  AND  BREEZY  PAGE  TURNING  READ...	This is one of the author's earlier works, and while it is not one of his best efforts, it is still a cut above what is currently proffered by other writers of this genre. Jeffrey Deaver writes with a decidedly contemporary feel, his prose always spare and lean. While he does not dwell unduly on character development, it does not deter from the book, as it is wholly plot driven, with enough twists and turns to keep the reader guessing until the last minute. It makes for a quick, enjoyable read.<br /><br />The book revolves around a decades old bank robbery in which the million dollars heisted was never recovered. This robbery was memorialized in an old bete noire film entitled \\"Manhattan is My Beat\\". Enter the story's unlikely heroine, twenty year old Rune of the purple hair, who works in a video store, squats in an abandoned loft that she calls home, and has an imagination that doesn't quit.<br /><br />When one of her video customers is killed execution style in his apartment, Rune is drawn into events of the past, as they converge upon the present. The now dead customer had repeatedly rented the film, \\"Manhattan is My Beat\\", and Rune firmly believes that there is a connection between his death and the age old bank heist. Her do-or-die resolve to discover why her customer was killed leads the moxie endowed Rune on a merry and dangerous chase. It is one that keeps the reader fully engaged and entertained.	2000-12-10
2181792:US	49355567	R5LU78L2ZT9TI	0595010555	326699753	The Psychic World of Peter Hurkos	Books	3	10	12	N	Y	HE'S THE REAL DEAL...	This book is not really about Peter Hurkos. It is about Peter Hurkos, the psychic. If one measures this book by whether or not Peter Hurkos is revealed as a charlatan or a true psychic, then it succeeds admirably, as it leaves little doubt that Peter Hurkos was an individual with a highly unusual gift. If you measure the book by whether or not you get to know Peter Hurkos, the person, then it has not succeeded, because the reader comes away with very little feeling as to who Peter Hurkos was. The book, while interesting, suffers from being somewhat one dimensional.  Notwithstanding this limitation, it is still a thought provoking read.<br />Peter Hurkos is the famous Dutch psychic who enthralled the world during the nineteen fifties and sixties with his psychic gifts. Uncannily clairvoyant, he was not always so. Born in Holland to a working class Dutch family of simple means, his youth was relatively uneventful. Interestingly enough, however, he was born with the caul which is often taken to mean by those who are superstitious that the individual may have been born with the gift of telepathy or clairvoyance.<br />Though his youth was relatively uneventful, this changed in 1941 when he fell off a ladder and fell four stories, landing on his head. He miraculously survived, but as his friends and family put it, the old Peter had died, and a new one seemed to have taken his place: one who could foretell the future, as well as describe past events, with uncanny accuracy. In the nineteen fifties, he left Holland and came to the United States, where he prospered as a well known psychic.<br />Peter used his gifts commercially, for which he received much criticism. He also became known as a psychic detective for helping the police solve numerous cases. Some of the cases in which he assisted were high profile cases, such as that of the Boston Strangler. For many years, Peter Hurkos astonished the world with his psychic gifts. He performed best through the process of psychometry, the divination of information by touching an object belonging to the subject of the reading.<br />I have to admit that some of the documented stories are truly amazing. So amazing that the author, an investigative reporter with a reputation for exposing frauds, became a believer. I do not doubt that the reader will likewise succumb and join the legions of those who believe that Peter Hurkos was, indeed, psychic.ry, the divination of information by touching an object belonging to the subject of the reading.<br />I have to admit that some of the documented stories are truly amazing. So amazing that the author, an investigative reporter with a reputation for exposing frauds, became a believer. I do not doubt that the reader will likewise succumb and join the legions of those who believe that Peter Hurkos was, indeed, psychic.	2000-12-10
2183450:US	49355567	R2NJMEIVGJVDR6	0312966938	516203133	A House By The Side Of The Road (Dead Letter Mysteries)	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	A MELLOW MYSTERY...	This mystery is a pleasant, quick read which keeps you guessing. Cogently written in spare, lean prose, the author expertly moves the plot along, though she falls prey to creating certain situations which strain belief. This is a fault of characterization, however, and not of plot. It does not diminish the mystery.<br />The book is about a young woman , Meg Kessinger, who inherits her great aunt's house in a rural area of Pennsylvania. The house is every thing she has ever wanted and then some. Were it not for the sense that someone is entering her house and moving her things around, as if they were looking for something, she would be perfectly happy.<br />As it turns out, the mysterious events in her home are tied in to the death of an elderly next door neighbor, who appears to have been the victim of some skullduggery. Meg's sleuthing takes some interesting twists and turns. It should keep the reader guessing as to who is the culprit responsible for the nefarious doings.	2000-12-08
2196143:US	49355567	R1DT7J1GLB8DHM	0843944072	163106233	Sineater	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	GRIM...GRIPPING...ATMOSPHERIC	This is an exceptionally well written horror novel and one of the best of its genre. This Bram Stoker Award winning novel is set in the backwoods of Virginia, and the author's talent as a writer gives the reader a real feeling for the place about which she is writing. It is a grim, gripping, and highly atmospheric horror novel about a backwoods town in which some of the residents practice an old time religious custom...one that requires the service of one known as the &#34;Sineater&#34;.<br /><br />By custom, the Sineater is one who redeems the souls of the dead by eating food laid out on the bodies of the dead before they are buried. In eating the food, the Sineater is symbolically redeeming their souls, as the food represents their sins. The living are forbidden to look upon the countenance of the Sineater.<br /><br />That taboo, however, has been violated, as the Sineater now has a wife and family, even though they, too, must avert their gaze. The family is also to be shunned by the people of the town. Yet, the youngest member of the family, Joel, attends school in town. Though his company is generally avoided by nearly all, he manages to touch some hearts, and some folks actually interact with the child much to their ultimate dismay, as someone appears to be very angry with this break in tradition.<br /><br />The goodness and sensitivity innate in Joel, as well as his touching appreciation of friendly overtures by others, and the discovery of his own humanity, is a wonderful counterpoint to the evil let loose upon this backwoods town and the ignorance which fuels customs that are destructive and inhumane. This is a horror novel well worth reading.	2000-11-27
2196980:US	49355567	R3MUT30EI07MWA	0425173453	822194112	Named of the Dragon	Books	5	6	9	N	Y	HAUNTING...EVOCATIVE...RIVETING	This is yet another beautifully written book by Susanna Kearsley. Almost as good as &quot;Marianna&quot; and better than &quot;The Shadowy Horses&quot;, both by Ms. Kearsley, this book is a highly entertaining gothic style novel.<br />A literary agent with a sad past, her client who is a children's author, another author romantically linked with the agent's client, and his brother, all spend the Christmas holidays together in the two brothers' farmhouse in Wales. Our literary agent starts having vivid dreams in which a woman from the past keeps asking her to protect a beautiful child she has with her. Meanwhile, a local, somewhat eccentric neighbor also perceives this literary agent to be someone sent to guard her own child from danger. She, too, has had haunting dreams.<br />Throw in a brooding Welsh playwright, some atmospheric surroundings, a lonely, wild country side, some romantic yearnings, haunting legends, and mysterious, inexplicable occurrences, and what you have is a gripping page turner. It is a book well worth reading.	2000-11-27
2212946:US	49355567	R3EXOIEBEGT6IM	0812510488	745081288	The Season of Passage	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A PAGE TURNING MASTERPIECE...A  MUST  READ !	This is an unbelievably engrossing and entertaining book, a veritable page turner. It will entertain anyone who enjoys horror, science fiction, or fantasy books. It combines all three genres successfully.<br /><br />The book involves a trip to Mars by a group of Americans, who seek to unravel a mystery intimated by a Russian expedition to Mars, which never returned to Earth and seemingly vanished. Part of the American team includes a Dr. Lauren Wagner, who leaves behind a thirteen year old sister, Jennifer, who has premonitions of disaster on Mars.<br /><br />Central to the book is a story of fantasy written by Jennifer about two ancient races, the Asurians and the Sastra. To simplify, the Asurians are evil and the Sastra are good. Their tale of conflict is spellbinding and allegorical to the central, yet parallel story of the expedition to Mars.<br /><br />Suffice to say that what is encountered on Mars is terrifying. The Americans come across an ostensible survivor of the Russian expedition. It turns out that he is something else, something very, very scary. What happens on this encounter will surely chill the reader's blood.<br /><br />The apparent survival and return to Earth by Dr. Lauren Wagner and Major Gary Wheeler, pilot of the mission to Mars expedition, raises questions by those who know and love them. They sense that Lauren and Gary are not who they purport to be. They are now different somehow, and all mankind is at risk.<br /><br />The clue on how to stop the potential destruction of the human race lies in the allegorical tale. This book is unbelievably creative and imaginative. Yet, somehow the author manages to make the combination of genres work flawlessly, weaving it all into an enthralling novel. This is an old fashioned, page turning, must read book, simply one of the best that I have ever read.ly one of the best and most engrossing books I have ever read.	2000-11-12
2213180:US	49355567	R27UKQJ7E29507	0446385166	795362268	Seven Summits	Books	4	9	10	N	Y	RIP ROLLICKING ADVENTURE STORY...A MUST READ	What happens when two wealthy, middle aged men with commanding, type A personalities get together? Why they decide to climb the seven summits, the highest mountain on each of the seven continents! Their attempts to snare their trophy mountains makes for a rip rollicking good read. What is most remarkable is that one of them actually manages to summit each and every one of the seven mountains in question.<br />The account of their adventure runs the gamut of the human experience: humor, pathos, joy, and ultimate success. Their achievement is incredible, considering that they were middle aged, novice climbers. Yet their grit and determination, coupled with a seemingly endless cash flow, allowed them to hob nob with the mountaineering elite and, ultimately, enables one of them to achieve their collective dream.<br />These are two men who, when looking back on their lives, will never find themselves in the position of saying &quot;would've, could've, should've&quot;. They dared to live their dreams. Would that we were all so inclined. In any case, their adventures during their remarkable quest make for some very absorbing reading. Climbing enthusiasts will enjoy this book, as will as those who love a good adventure story.	2000-11-12
2218676:US	49355567	R3IVDO1AO0MI5H	0898866162	270076305	Everest: The West Ridge	Books	3	31	36	N	Y	A DRAMATIC , EVEREST  ADVENTURE DRYLY TOLD...ZZZZZZZ	This is the story of the 1963 American Mount Everest Expedition which made mountaineering history. It saw the first Americans summit Everest via the South Col. It also saw the first climb of Everest by anyone via the West Ridge route, previously believed to be unclimbable.<br /><br />Not only did Thomas Hornbein and Willi Unsoeld summit Everest via the West Ridge, they traversed the mountain and descended via the South Col route. They were, however, forced to bivouac in the death zone at 28,000 feet without any food, supplemental oxygen, or shelter.<br /><br />One would think that such a dramatic turn of events high on Everest would be riveting to read. Wrong! Unfortunately, this is the one problem with this book. The story is told in a very dry, dull fashion. It is as if Hornbein were talking about flossing one's teeth rather than about a segment of mountaineering history of which he was an integral part.<br /><br />Nevertheless, this is a high quality paperback with forty-eight terrific photographs that are sure to delight Everest junkies everywhere. No mountaineering library should be without this book, which recounts with detail one of the most significant climbs in the history of the Himalayas.	2000-11-07
2219682:US	49355567	RIRO5XAX7APKY	0515124648	763023042	Shadowy Horses	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	ATMOSPHERIC  AND  EERIE...	Beautifully written, the book immediately grips the reader in its thrall. The plot is well developed, as are the main characters. There are also enough twists and turns to satisfy most. If you enjoyed Susanna Kearsley's previous novel, \\"Mariana\\", you will also enjoy this one.<br /><br />The plot revolves around an archaeological site in Scotland where our heroine, archaeologist Verity Grey, is working. Toss in a former lover, an eight year old blessed with second sight, a masterful, very attractive Scotsman, a family secret, some Scottish mists, and a ghostly sentinel from the Ninth Roman Legion, and you have a recipe for a gothic style page turner, if ever there were one.	2000-11-06
2229119:US	49355567	RV52NE1PSXIAX	0770427839	221464805	Mariana	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	HAUNTING...SPELLBINDING...POIGNANT	It is no wonder that this book won the 1993 Catherine Cookson Fiction Prize! It is a wonderful book written in the best Gothic tradition. Those who love the works of Anya Seton, Barbara Erskine, Victoria Holt, and Catherine Cookson, will love reading &quot;Mariana&quot;. It is, without a doubt, a great read.<br />The book takes the main character, Julia Beckett, to a past life, after she purchases a beautiful old sixteenth century house named Greywethers. She has loved the house and been drawn to it ever since she was a young child. Once she moves in, however, life as she knew it ends, and life as Mariana, one half of a pair of star crossed lovers, begins.<br />Mariana lived in the seventeenth century. She and her beloved, Richard de Mornay, the lord of Crofton Hall Manor, were never to live happily ever after, as their life together came to an abrupt end. Yet, they were to be reunited, as his dying words prophesied.<br />It awaited Julia to make things come full circle. As Julia undergoes a past life regression and relives portions of Mariana's life, she ultimately realizes that the past is often found in the present. More important, what once went wrong in the past, may be made right in the present.<br />This spellbinding book is sure to captivate the reader. Buy this book!	2000-10-29
2235567:US	49355567	R3M2HOLEZ1G00A	0688165435	969956503	Ascent: The Spiritual And Physical Quest Of Legendary Mountaineer Willi Unsoeld	Books	4	14	17	N	Y	WILLI UNSOELD...AKA....PETER PAN	Legendary mountaineer, Willi Unsoeld, led an extraordinary life. A self styled guru of mountaineering, he was selfish, egotistical, and narcissistic. He was a modern day Peter Pan who just never grew up, with tragic consequences for some who crossed his path.<br /><br />The author is a devoted admirer of Willi Unsoeld and does not question some of those moments in Willi's life which should be questioned or reflected upon. This is the one criticism of what is otherwise a very interesting, compelling book about a flawed individual who made mountaineering history. His amazing ascent of the West Ridge of Everest to the summit and his subsequent traverse and descent on the South face will live on forever in the annals of mountaineering lore.<br /><br />Willi Unsoeld was a passionate man for whom mountaineering was life itself. He was positively joyous when atop his beloved mountains. It is something which is to be admired. Yet, Willi had a darker side, as well. It is this apparent dichotomy in Willi's life which makes the book such an interesting read.  One of the most tragic episodes in Willi's life involved his beautiful daughter, Nanda Devi, named after the mountain of the same name. She was taken by her father on an ill-fated expedition to that same mountain. It was there that she tragically died and was consigned to the mountain. The cause of her death is not made clear by the book, but what is clear to any discerning reader is that Willi bore some responsibility. He acted as no father would nor as any responsible expedition leader would have under the circumstances.<br /><br />What made Nanda Devi's death more appalling is that Willi would later romanticize her death in innumerable lectures, exploiting what should have remained private. How he could bring himself to do this is beyond belief. It is no wonder that his wife blamed him for their daughter's death and that this tragedy caused a rift in their marriage.<br /><br />This self-styled guru needed the constant worship of acolytes in order to thrive. As he aged, he sought the adoration of college students, spouting his parboiled life philosphy on the subject of risk taking. It was this self styled, sophomoric philosophy that drove him to take a group of students up Mount Ranier in the dead of winter, when other, more level heads, argued against it. Would that he had listened. He and the student who died in an avalanche with him might today be alive. Alas, it was not to be.<br /><br />Peter Pan finally went to Never-Never Land.worship of acolytes in order to thrive. As he aged, he sought the adoration of college students, spouting his parboiled life philosphy on the subject of risk taking. It was this self styled, sophomoric philosophy that drove him to take a group of students up Mount Ranier in the dead of winter, when other, more level heads, argued against it. Would that he had listened. He and the student who died in an avalanche with him might today be alive. Alas, it was not to be.<br /><br />Peter Pan finally went to Never-Never Land.	2000-10-23
2237339:US	49355567	RBZI41AF42RXK	0671019910	951401528	Addicted to Danger: Affirming Life in the Face of Death	Books	4	1	3	N	Y	ADDICTED TO DANGER IS ADDICTIVE	This is an absorbing account of the mountaineering adventures of Jim Wickwire, one of the foremost American high altitude mountaineers. It is at times a moving memoir, and at other times somewhat sophomoric in its attempt to explain what drove him to climb, at great cost to his family.<br /><br />The book is nicely illustrated with many photographs of his family, fellow mountaineers, and his beloved mountains. The photographs are well placed, as they go with the flow of the story. When you see those of his wife and children, however, it makes you wonder how he could ever be away from such a beautiful family for so long and miss so many family occasions. It is a testament to his wife's devotion that she and the children are still loving towards such an absentee figure.<br /><br />The most interesting part of the book involves his mountaineering adventures. Whether writing about the death of a companion on the mountain or the victory of a successful summit ascent, it is told with much feeling. The single most moving chapter, however, is the one which describes the unfortunate death of fellow mountaineer, Chris Herrebrock, while he and Jim were on Peter's Glacier on Mt. McKinley. It is poignantly told, and one can sense the impact that this young man's death had on Jim Wickwire.<br /><br />He also vividly recounts his summit of K2, second only to Everest in height, but infinitely more difficult to climb. He was one of the first two Americans to summit K2 and on his descent was forced to bivouac solo at 27,750 feet. He survived this bivouac sans water, stove, and supplemental oxygen, while lacking a sleeping bag and down parka. He credits the images of his wife and children for his survival that long, frigid, and lonely night. It was only his fierce desire to see them again that kept death at bay.<br /><br />The chapters which discuss mountaineer Marty Hoey were intriguing because of the romantic feelings he had towards her, and she towards him. Jim was on a climbing expedition on Aconcagua where she was a fellow expeditioner, when the embers of a romantic relationship began, though it was never physically consummated. Of course, this budding romance came to an  abrupt end when Marty died tragically on Mount Everest while, again, on expedition with Jim. He later let his wife read his diary which told of his feelings for Marty. She was very understanding of this emotional betrayal. It would have been a kindness to his wife not to have made these feelings public. Its inclusion in the book indicates a continuing insensitivity towards his wife that is unfortunate.<br /><br />All in all, however, the book makes for a good read, though in the end one wonders if Jim Wickwire is really through with the mountains which so inveigled him throughout his life. One cannot help but wonder if there is yet another promise to his wife and family waiting to be broken.pedition on Aconcagua where she was a fellow expeditioner, when the embers of a romantic relationship began, though it was never physically consummated. Of course, this budding romance came to an  abrupt end when Marty died tragically on Mount Everest while, again, on expedition with Jim. He later let his wife read his diary which told of his feelings for Marty. She was very understanding of this emotional betrayal. It would have been a kindness to his wife not to have made these feelings public. Its inclusion in the book indicates a continuing insensitivity towards his wife that is unfortunate.<br /><br />All in all, however, the book makes for a good read, though in the end one wonders if Jim Wickwire is really through with the mountains which so inveigled him throughout his life. One cannot help but wonder if there is yet another promise to his wife and family waiting to be broken.	2000-10-22
2237546:US	49355567	R27BWW2X06B5CI	0898865549	567968516	Summit Fever: An Armchair Climber's Initiation to Glencoe, Mortal Terror and the Himalayan Matterhorn	Books	3	0	0	N	Y	AN ARM CHAIR CLIMBER'S DREAM COME TRUE...	Imagine yourself, arm chair climber that you invariably are, being invited by a well respected mountaineer to join an expedition to the Karakoram Himalayas to write a book about the experience. What would you do?<br />Well, if you are like Andrew Greig, notwithstanding lack of climbing experience, you find the invitation hard to resist, especially since the mountaineer who invites you, Mal Duff, is personally willing to put you through the paces on some of the local peaks to help you get into the groove of climbing. Before you know it, you find yourself on expedition in the Karakoram Himalayas headed to the Mustagh Tower.<br />This book is the author's account of how he found himself on a high altitude climbing expedition, what he did to train and get in shape for it, what he did when he got there, and what his perceptions were, as a former arm chair climber, of the expedition experience and climbing at high altitude.<br />His account is gritty, realistic, and he tells it the way he sees it, warts and all. Well written, it celebrates the roller coaster existence of being on a real live adventure ride that is the lot of expeditioners everywhere.	2000-10-22
2269824:US	49355567	R2828Z7I0NIB8O	0312959982	766536583	Salt of the Earth: A Mother, A Daughter, A Murder	Books	3	12	18	N	Y	SALT OF THE EARTH...NEEDS A LITTLE PEPPER	While not as gripping as the author's other works, this is due more to the fact that the story is what it is. What the author endeavors to do is make the reader understand who this family was, how the respective family members were affected by the disappearance and murder of the twelve year old daughter, and what ultimately became of them. It is not so much about the murder of a child, but more about its devastating iimpact on the family. It is a story about what might have been, not just about what was.<br />It is also the story of a socio-pathic killer and the efforts of the bereaved family to see to it that this monster was brought to justice, no matter how long or how difficult it would be. It is not, however, a story about the victim, and therein lies the weakness in the book. For all its excellent investigative reporting, the book simply lacks the draw that it would undoubtedly have were the reader able to empathize more with the victim, who remains a somewhat obscure, though obviously beloved figure. Notwithstanding this, devotees of this genre should still find this book to be a worthwhile read.	2000-09-26
2280795:US	49355567	RO1FQAKZVPZJ5	0898866324	270894109	The Last Step: The American Ascent of K2	Books	5	31	33	N	Y	THE LAST STEP...MORE LIKE THE LAST STRAW!	Without a doubt, this is one of the most riveting mountaineering books  around. Not for the climbing, which is in and of itself gripping, but for  the slice of human drama found in the deterioration of relationships  amongst various members of the expedition. At times, one is mesmerized by  the bad behavior displayed at such high altitudes! One would think that  these expeditioners were on Melrose Place, rather than fighting for their  place in mountaineering history on K2, one of the most perilous mountains  in the world to ascend.<br />Central to all the squabbling, was the love  trangle which developed on the expedition, which was perceived by some of  the expeditioners to be an extra marital affair in progress. Though this  later proved to be true, at the time it was the source of much denial and  hard feelings. It further split the team, which was already divided over  who would be chosen to summit, and eroded already existing friendships,  while preventing new ones which might have otherwise developed.<br />On top of  all this, add in poor weather which caused them to spend about sixty seven  days on the mountain, mostly at altitudes over eighteen thousand feet, and  you have a recipe for disaster. These expeditioners, however, managed to  become the first Americans to ascend K2.<br />Their success in achieving  their objective, despite the trials and tribulations which they endured, is  testament to their fortitude in putting aside petty, mean spirited concerns  and inter-personal conflicts. This painstaking account of the first time  summit of K2 by Americans is a must read for all climbing enthusiasts and  readers of this genre.	2000-09-17
2281370:US	49355567	RGKL13F5VQH1W	0312868863	349837324	Somewhere In Time	Books	4	74	78	N	N	ROMANTIC AND POIGNANT...THE LONGING IS PALPABLE	A terminally ill man falls in love with a famous turn of the century actress. The only trouble is that they are separated by a span of about seventy five years. What is a man to do? Why travel back in time, of course.<br /><br />That is just what Richard Collier does in order to be with the beautiful Elise McKenna, the woman of his dreams. Or does he? Does he really travel back in time, or is it merely the delusion of a desperately ill man who seeks to find meaning for his existence? Does his tenuous hold on life in the present mirror his equally tenuous hold on life at the turn of the century? Is his death ultimately the only way for these unrequited lovers to be united, at last?<br /><br />This is a beautifully poignant love story in which the longing the protaganists have for each other is palpable. A bittersweet sadness permeates the pages of this book, as Robert and Elise pass through life, each a shadow on the consciousness of the other. One only hopes that they find in the hereafter, what they were denied in this life.<br /><br />This wonderfully imaginative and inventive book draws the reader into its fantastical web. A veritable page turner, it is a classic story of a love which will not be denied. Read the book, and then see the movie with Christopher Reeve and Jane Seymour. You will not be disappointed.	2000-09-16
2281754:US	49355567	R15PCFFKI5BWNY	031286504X	486151984	I Am Legend	Books	5	1	2	N	N	I AM LEGEND...A LEGEND IN ITS OWN TIME	What would you do, if a mysterious plague swept throughout the world,  literally killing everyone off, but leaving in its place something new,  something frightening, something downright horrible, while leaving you  alive, immune and seemingly alone? What would you do, if the undead now  walked the earth looking for you, the last man alive...the last vestige of  the human race? What if what they wanted was the taste of your blood on  their lips? Just what on earth would you do?<br /><br />These are the questions  that faced Robert Neville. It is he who is Legend. How he answers them is  what makes this a book to remember and a classic within its genre. It is a  book of profound hope and despair. It is a book that demands to be read.  Read it. You will not be disappointed.	2000-09-16
2287745:US	49355567	R2LC8J3ULLP0K2	0812572122	291885214	A Stir of Echoes	Books	3	47	52	N	N	A  PLEA  FROM THE GRAVE WILL NOT BE DENIED...	Although not one of Matheson's best efforts, it nevertheless makes for a  page turning, good read. Written nearly half a century ago, the book still  has a contemporary feel to it. There are just a few issues which remind one  how long ago it was written. Its central themes, however, are as fresh  today, as when the book was first published.<br /><br />The main character in the  book is Tom Wallace, a working stiff with a house and family, who goes to a  local gathering of friends and family. There he allows himself to be  hypnotized by a relative who is an amateur hypnotist. A doubting Thomas, he  agrees to undergo hypnosis in the belief that he would not be susceptible  to it. Much to his chagrin and the amusement of others, he is, indeed, put  under. Shortly after coming out of his trance, he finds that life, as he  knew it, had irrevocably changed.<br /><br />What he had thought was a cheap parlor  trick, turned out to be the catalyst that changed his immediate reality.  His existence began to be punctuated by visions, telepathic intrusions,  psychic impressions, and other paranormal experiences. The effect that this  has on him, his life, and those whom he loves is what gives the book its  substance.<br /><br />It is this altered reality, however, that makes his new life  more meaningful than the one he had been leading prior to his being  hypnotized. The book barrels on to a climactic ending, as events from the  past intrude on the present, demanding a resolution. The realization that  things or people are not always what they seem is brought home here with  great impact.<br /><br />Do yourself a favor, read the book and skip the movie.  They bear little resemblance to one another.	2000-09-10
2291112:US	49355567	R132GNABTBZBAC	0312969856	599701905	Facing The Extreme: One Woman's Story Of True Courage And Death-Defying Survival In The Eye Of Mt. McKinley's Worst Storm Ever	Books	3	11	13	N	Y	A CHILLING STORY ... BY A TALENTLESS WRITER...	This book, though poorly written, has a story to tell, though it could  have been better told by someone who knows how to write. It is, however, an  easy, quick read and moderately interesting. It does have some merit, in as  much as it chronicles the author's ascent of Denali.<br /><br />Most of the book is  spent recounting the time during which she and her team mates were trapped  on Denali at 14,000 feet, caught in one of the most severe storms on record  which saw eleven people perish. Her description of the horrendous weather  conditions and sub zero temperatures, which pinned her team down for a  period of about two weeks, is graphic, though repetitious. She was lucky to  have been with two experienced guides who knew what they were doing. This  is undoubtedly one of the main reasons she and her team mates survived  their ordeal.<br /><br />Disconcerting are her repeated racist references to Asian  climbers. Her comments are unworthy and make her sound ignorant. It cannot  help but affect one's opinion of her, and that opinion is unflattering.  This is unfortunate, as she is a person one might otherwise admire for her  pluck and stamina.	2000-09-07
2295807:US	49355567	R2E4R6PDGOCHDF	0898866995	94945383	Ghosts of Everest: The Search for Mallory & Irvine	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	DID THEY  OR DIDN'T THEY...?	This is a beautifully and lavishly illustrated, textually rich book. Its  heavy, glossy pages demand the reader's undivided attention and are sure to  enthrall all mystery lovers, Everest aficionados, nostalgia junkies,  history buffs, and climbing enthusiasts. This book is sure to provide the  reader with many hours of enjoyment.<br />The book chronicles the search for  George Mallory and Andrew Irvine by the 1999 Mallory &amp; Irvine Research  Expedition. It juxtaposes the dramatic turn of events during their  expedition with those of the 1924 British Everest Expedition which saw  Mallory and Irvine attempt a summit climb, only to disappear into the mists  of Everest, never to be seen again. It makes for a spell binding narrative,  as past events are woven through present day ones.<br />The 1999 Mallory  &amp; Irvine Research Expedition was a meticulously well prepared and well  organized venture. With its discovery of George Leigh Mallory's body, it  enjoyed much success. The research and analysis that went into its  ultimate, well thought out conclusions were comprehensive and fascinating,  with its strong reliance upon forensics and deductive reasoning. Their  reconstruction of Mallory's and Irvine's last climb is riveting.  Unfortunately, the ultimate question still remains unanswered. Did they or  did they not reach the summit of Mount Everest back in 1924?<br />The  beautiful photographs of the personal effects found upon Mallory's person  underscore a certain poignancy about the discovery of Mallory's well  preserved body. The photographs which memorialize this discovery are  amazingly lovely and tasteful, considering its subject matter, and  hauntingly illustrate the finality with which Everest may deal with  mountaineers, no matter how accomplished.<br />The photographs also highlight  how ill equipped for the harsh climatic conditions were the early Everest  expeditions. It is amazing, and a credit to those early expeditioners'  courage and fortitude, in braving such an inhospitable and harsh terrain  with the inadequate clothing and equipment available to them at the time.  Mallory and Irvine were certainly intrepid explorers!<br />This book is a  fitting tribute to two men who sought to make a historic summit and, in  their attempt, would forever be a part of Everest.braving such an inhospitable and harsh terrain  with the inadequate clothing and equipment available to them at the time.  Mallory and Irvine were certainly intrepid explorers!<br />This book is a  fitting tribute to two men who sought to make a historic summit and, in  their attempt, would forever be a part of Everest.	2000-09-04
2298797:US	49355567	R3CQ3FOM5APBRA	0451168879	773213313	Julian's House	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	HAUNTING AND  WELL WRITTEN...A THINKING PERSON'S GHOST STORY	This is a well crafted, gripping read for those who love ghost stories.  Evocative of Henry James' 'The Turning of the Screw', this novel is spellbinding, as the past and the present seem to merge into a new reality.<br /><br />A husband and wife team, parapsychologists by profession, lease a well known haunted house in order to record all paranormal phenomena which may occur during their tenancy. This, however, turns out to be more than they can ultimately handle. The house begins to overwhelm them, and they personally begin a slow metamorphosis over time. Their marriage begins to undergo a change, as well. Whether this is as a result of ghostly manifestations or not, I leave to the reader to decide.<br /><br />Suffice to say, I trust that this beautifully written ghost story will not disappoint the reader.	2000-09-02
2299031:US	49355567	R1EDENHD42FMFW	0375755063	461457495	Starlight and Storm: The Conquest of the Great North Faces of the Alps (Modern Library Exploration)	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	POETRY IN MOTION...THE BROTHERHOOD OF THE ROPE	Lyrically written, the author, Gaston Rebuffat, one of the world's  climbing greats, expresses such joy for mountaineering that it is  infectious. No climbing enthusiast's library should be without this book.  The photograph of Rebuffat which graces the cover of this book is alone  worth the price of the book.<br /><br />Rebuffat is positively poetic in his  description of various climbs. The reader almost feels as if one were as one with the mountain. A purist, the author climbed not for the glory of it,  but for the sheer joy of the brotherhood of the rope. In these days, where  climbing is often just a reason for a media event, the author's approach is  refreshing, indeed.	2000-09-01
2306537:US	49355567	R21MR044QS0JKX	1585740136	840406792	K2, The Savage Mountain: The Classic True Story of Disaster and Survival on the World's Second Highest Mountain	Books	5	37	40	N	Y	HIGH ALTITUDE HEROICS...	A riveting read, this book chronicles the 1953 Third American Karakoram Expedition. The authors, members and integral part of that illustrious team of eight expeditioners, regale the reader with their account of the tragic circumstances with which they were faced while attempting to summit K2, a five mile high mountain, second only to Everest in height but infinitely more perilous to ascend.<br /><br />The book recounts the myriad of detail which went into the formulation of that expedition, from the selection of its respective team members to the type and quantity of supplies necessary for such an ambitious endeavor. The book, in fact, includes a series of appendixes which lists in minute detail a day to day travel chronology of the expedition, a list of all equipment necessary, the breakdown of the various foods taken, the medical supplies needed for the venture, and a list of financial costs and transport requirements. In short, it provides everything one may have ever wanted to know about what goes into mounting an expedition. Nostalgia buffs, as well as climbing enthusiasts, will revel in the plethora of information!<br /><br />The book also grounds the reader in the historical, as well as geographical, pedigree of K2 and the challenges which it has presented over time. It recounts the previous reconnaissances and expeditions which had traveled to the environs of K2. Interestingly enough, on this expedition, unlike prior ones, Hunza mountain porters from a small border state in northern Pakistan, rather than Sherpas, were employed, due to the prevailing political winds of the time.<br /><br />The journey of the expedition over the remote and primitive reaches of the then infant country of Pakistan is a death defying venture in and of itself.  Imagine the expedition with its hundred and twenty five native Balti porters, each carrying sixty pound loads, crossing raging rivers in ancient barges said to be similar to those used by Alexander the Great in leading his armies across the same river! At other times, they crossed turbulent river waters, using rafts made up of inflated animal bladders which were lashed together. They traversed across wide gorges over bridges made of woven willows and twigs. These so called bridges had an alarming tendency to turn upside down, promising to send the hapless traveler to a certain death below! Fortunately, the expedition was able to avert death at this stage of its journey.<br /><br />Upon reaching Base Camp, an assault upon K2 was quickly launched. With the assistance of the Hunzas and a stretch of good weather, Camps I through III were established with a minimum of fuss. The Hunzas, however, did not progress beyond Camp III, as the expedition members felt it wiser to ascend without them, given the Hunzas' limited high altitude experience and equipment. From then on, the expeditioners, eager for a summit bid, did all the loading and carrying work up the mountain, ultimately establishing Camp VIII at an elevation of about 25,500 feet. It was there that the beginning of the end took place.<br /><br />While at Camp VIII, all eight members of the expedition found themselves storm bound for seven days. Despite being buffeted by hurricane force winds, driven snow, lack of sufficient food, drink, and sleep, all while trapped in the death zone without supplementary oxygen, they still clung to their summit dream.<br /><br />That dream ended abruptly when one of them became desperately ill with thrombophlebitis, and needed to be evacuated. Their nightmare had begun. Though it was seemingly impossible to lower the ill climber down the face of K2, this group of brave men would not abandon their fallen comrade.  A break in the storm, a desperate plan to save their friend, and they started off with him in tow only to have their escape aborted by the potential for avalanche. They retreated back to Camp VIII and by the next day were ready to execute an alternate plan of evacuation.<br /><br />Once again, they began the grim descent with their now catastrophically ill and courageous comrade in tow, this time during a storm with driven snow and gale force winds. Braced upon snow swept ridges, they began the arduous task of carefully lowering their friend down the relentlessly steep slope of K2. There, two of them survived a skirmish with an avalanche. Despite the peril, they continued down the mountain with great fortitude.  Suddenly, one of them lost his footing, however, and five of them went tumbling down the mountain side, only to have their fall abruptly checked by an amazing belay executed by the youngest member of the expedition.  Despite illness, injuries and frost bite, the eight man team was still intact.<br /><br />Unfortunately, it was not to remain thus. Shortly after, a heartbreaking and tragic accident occurred, resulting in a death which will move the reader to tears. The book culminates in a remarkable and harrowing descent by the remaining survivors, many of whom were incapacitated by the injuries and frostbite incurred along the way. Their survival is a testament to the indomitable human spirit and its enormous will to live.<br /><br />The story of the 1953 Third American Karakoram Expedition is one of the most amazing and spellbinding in the annals of mountaineering history.  Gripping in its telling, it is a must read for all climbing enthusiasts and for all who simply love a great read.n, they began the grim descent with their now catastrophically ill and courageous comrade in tow, this time during a storm with driven snow and gale force winds. Braced upon snow swept ridges, they began the arduous task of carefully lowering their friend down the relentlessly steep slope of K2. There, two of them survived a skirmish with an avalanche. Despite the peril, they continued down the mountain with great fortitude.  Suddenly, one of them lost his footing, however, and five of them went tumbling down the mountain side, only to have their fall abruptly checked by an amazing belay executed by the youngest member of the expedition.  Despite illness, injuries and frost bite, the eight man team was still intact.<br /><br />Unfortunately, it was not to remain thus. Shortly after, a heartbreaking and tragic accident occurred, resulting in a death which will move the reader to tears. The book culminates in a remarkable and harrowing descent by the remaining survivors, many of whom were incapacitated by the injuries and frostbite incurred along the way. Their survival is a testament to the indomitable human spirit and its enormous will to live.<br /><br />The story of the 1953 Third American Karakoram Expedition is one of the most amazing and spellbinding in the annals of mountaineering history.  Gripping in its telling, it is a must read for all climbing enthusiasts and for all who simply love a great read.	2000-08-27
2308866:US	49355567	R18NAO20ED4LY1	1858686040	422461382	Everest	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	A PICTURE IS WORTH  A THOUSAND WORDS...	This is a nice pictorial history of Mount Everest with accompanying text.  While the text is not wholly factually accurate, it does give one a feeling  of the tumultuous history surrounding Mount Everest, ever since modern man  attempted to scale its heights.<br /><br />The ninety photographs will delight  Everest junkies everywhere. Those of Mount Everest, in particular, are  spectacular, and alone are worth the price of the book. The photographs,  however, are not only of Everest, but are also of those mountaineers who  braved the elements to try and unravel its mystery. It is a lovely book  which has a place in the library of anyone who is a true Everest  aficionado.	2000-08-25
2311875:US	49355567	R18XZIS880ZSHA	1580800475	430253299	Coronation Everest	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	AN OLDIE BUT A GOODIE...	This is a wonderfully written book of the events surrounding the historic  Everest expedition of 1953 which saw Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay  summit Mount Everest. It was written by  special correspondent for The  London Times, James Morris, who accompanied the expedition and first broke  the news to the world of the successful summit. The news fortuitously  reached England on the eve of Queen Elizabeth's the II coronation of June  2, 1953, and was the cause for much nationalistic pride. Hence, the name of  the book.<br /><br />The book is reflective of the time in which it was written and  evokes a feeling of an era long gone. Therein lies its charm. Nostalgia  buffs will love it, as will those readers looking to consume anything about  Everest. It will not disappoint, though the book is not about the climb to  the summit in the strictest sense. The book chronicles in great detail the  author's journey to Everest, as well as his personal experiences and  observations while at Everest, waiting to break the story of the end result  of the historic climb to the summit. It also chronicles the cloak and  dagger methodology which he employed in order maintain exclusivity for The  London Times.<br /><br />It should be noted in the interest of clarity and to avoid  confusion, that times do indeed change. The author, James Morris, underwent  a gender change subsequent to the original 1958 publication of this book.  When the book was released again, however, the publisher did so under the  name which the author had since adopted, Jan Morris. James or Jan, the  author is a hell of a writer, and the book is well worth reading.	2000-08-23
2313871:US	49355567	R183H510X0N3QU	0395493382	849605810	Having Twins: A Parent's Guide to Pregnancy, Birth and Early Childhood	Books	5	9	11	N	N	EVERYTHING YOU EVER WANTED TO KNOW ABOUT TWINS...	When I was having twins, this book was my bible. I loved it! I found it to  be very informative. While I had a wonderful obstetrician in attendance, it  was nice to have something to fill in the blanks when he was not available.  Being inquisitive by nature, this book fit the bill. I read it from cover  to cover. I found it to have a common sense approach to the process of  having twins.<br /><br />I tended to follow its advice and found it very reassuring.  Its dietary recommendations were sound. I followed them, as they were not  inconsistent with my doctor's own. I felt good throughout my pregnancy and  was very happy to be having twins. When they were born, my son weighed in  at 7 lbs. 2 oz., and my daughter weighed in at 6 lbs. 6 oz.<br /><br />The book  really gives one all the information about having twins that one could ever  want: the good, the bad, and the ugly. It is a reality based book. Were my  daughter having twins, I would give her a copy of this book.	2000-08-21
2314276:US	49355567	R12U5JW4ZVZ8NP	0395485908	395398268	K2: Triumph and Tragedy	Books	4	19	23	N	Y	ET TU...K2?	It is summer...1986. Twenty seven climbers triumph at the K2 summit. Thirteen climbers die in their quest to conquer K2. Therein lies the tale.<br /><br />The author, a photographer who calls himself a climber, though that is debatable, attempts to make sense of the events that unfolded on the mountain that summer. Relying upon the anecdotes and narratives of others, as well as his own personal observations, he tries to put the events into perspective, even though he has no first hand knowledge of what transpired up on the mountain, for the most part. Although he was there, he rarely ventured past base camp.<br /><br />The book does make for an interesting read, as we look at events as they unfold before the author. It is amazing that with all the tragedies that seemed to occur at almost every turn, the climbers still kept climbing, never losing sight of their quest. At times this singlemindedness on the part of the climbers comes across as somewhat meglomaniacal.<br /><br />The author is very candid in his commentary throughout the book and, surprisingly, he does not hesitate to speak ill of the dead.  His candor, while somewhat disturbing, is refreshing, and it is interesting to find out that the gods do, indeed, have clay feet.	2000-08-21
2315627:US	49355567	RDZ2HR5UV48CK	1580050336	5419265	Tents in the Clouds: The First Women's Himalayan Expedition (Adventura Books)	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	WOMEN IN THE CLOUDS...A BLAST FROM THE PAST	This is a chronicle of the historic journey made by the 1955 first all female expedition to the Himalayas. It is an amazing adventure for those Betty Crocker days. While it ocassionally reads like a buddy book, its flavor is somewhat anachronistic and reflective of its time. It makes for a very interesting read.<br /><br />This expedition, a somewhat grandiose term for a group of three women and their Sherpas, endeavored to explore the remote and then uncharted area of Nepal called the Jugal Himal. Their journey and trek through Nepal makes for a travelogue of delightful descriptions and anecdotes.<br /><br />Unlike many modern day expeditions, these three women exhibited nothing but synchronized teamwork throughout their journey. This was not an ego trip for them. They were motivated by a genuine curiosity of the world in which they lived and an appreciation of the different people and cultures with which they came in contact.<br /><br />True adventurers, they climbed unexplored ranges and reached the summit of a 22,000 plus peak without supplementary oxygen. They did all this without any casualties. It was very important for this particular expedition to be successful, because there were many nay sayers at the time who would have been only too willing to jump up and shout that women were not fit for such a venture. Thankfully, they were able to prove them wrong. Wonen can climb and lead an expedition!	2000-08-20
2316595:US	49355567	R1OA8RJAAEU0LW	0898863732	971125096	K2: the 1939 Tragedy	Books	5	19	22	N	Y	AN AMERICAN TRAGEDY AT HIGH ALTITUDE...	An absorbing review of the facts and circumstances surrounding the tragic 1939 K2 expedition and its aftermath. Weaving a newly discovered, first  hand account by one of the expeditioners, with already known, heretofore,  controversial historical data from others on the expedition, the authors  masterfully reconstruct the events which led to the deaths of four  individuals, three Sherpas and one American, on K2 in the wild Karakoram  range.<br /><br />After many weeks in the mountains, overcome by altitude sickness  and inexperience, only three members of the expedition are physically able  or willing to push on to the summit. The only ones so inclined are its  expedition leader, Fritz Wiessner, the rich American who bankrolled part of  the expedition, Dudley Wolfe, and the plucky Sherpa porter, Pasang  Lama.<br /><br />Dudley Wolfe, with whom Fritz Wiessner seems to have developed a  client-guide relationship, is unable to continue past camp VIII, limited by  his own inexperience. Fritz, a superb climber, continue along towards the  summit with Pasang Lama. They set up Camp IX and continue on towards the  summit, where they manages to make it up to within 8oo feet of the summit.  There, the plucky Pasang Lama is unable to continue. They decide to return  to Camp IX with the intention of resting and returning the next day for a  new assault on the summit.<br /><br />It was not to be. On their descent, they lost  their  crampons. After they rested in Camp IX, they realized that they  needed more supplies, so they went down to Camp VIII. There they found  Dudley, but no new supplies had been brought up from the lower camps. So,  they all decide to go down to Camp VII to investigate and restock.<br /><br />On  the way down, Dudley's inexperience causes them to have an accident on the  ropes. They fall but manage to survive. Pasang Lama, however, is seriously  injured, and the sleeping bag and air mattress that Dudley carried is lost  to the mountain. Fritz, having left his bedding in Camp IX, expecting to  find some in the lower camps, is disappointed when they manage to reach  camp VII, only to find it in disarray and stripped of all bedding and  sleeping bags! Remarkably, both Dudley and Fritz had by this time spent  nearly a month in the dead zone without supplementary oxygen. Therein lies  the tale.<br /><br />Read on! The account is at times mesmerizing. This  remarkably well researched chronicle manages to paint a riveting picture of  the the travails of this expedition from its confused beginnings to its  tragic end. It shows what can happen when all members of the expedition are  clearly not on the same page.his bedding in Camp IX, expecting to  find some in the lower camps, is disappointed when they manage to reach  camp VII, only to find it in disarray and stripped of all bedding and  sleeping bags! Remarkably, both Dudley and Fritz had by this time spent  nearly a month in the dead zone without supplementary oxygen. Therein lies  the tale.<br /><br />Read on! The account is at times mesmerizing. This  remarkably well researched chronicle manages to paint a riveting picture of  the the travails of this expedition from its confused beginnings to its  tragic end. It shows what can happen when all members of the expedition are  clearly not on the same page.	2000-08-19
2316885:US	49355567	R23PL107W6V5XT	158151056X	706782895	Beyond the Limits: A Woman's Triumph on Everest	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	THE FIRST AMERICAN WOMAN TO SUMMIT MOUNT EVEREST...	This is an easy reading account of Stacy Allison's quest to climb Mount  Everest, and in doing so, becoming the the first American woman to  successfully summit.<br />The book chronicles her introduction to mountain  climbing, as well as her own personal demons. When going into some of the  personal details of her life outside of mountain climbing, the book stalls,  as the tawdry details are not particularly noteworthy, nor interesting to  anyone except, perhaps, Stacy. While she may not be the sharpest tool in  the shed, however, she sure is one of the pluckiest.<br />When it moves on to  the mountaineering aspects of her life, there are enough interesting  details to delight any climbing enthusiast. The descriptions of the two  Everest expeditions with which she was involved, including the one in which  she reached the summit, are intriguing enough to thrill any Everest  junkie.<br />The traveling, the mountaineering elite with whom she was in  contact, the sherpas, and the day to day business of being on an  expedition, are all vividly described, providing an engrossing chronicle of  her experiences.Written in a breezy, conversational tone, this book is sure  to delight many readers.	2000-08-19
2318515:US	49355567	R1BTS0IA0L7MZ1	0312194501	200602407	The Climb Up to Hell	Books	4	19	21	N	Y	THE CLIMB UP TO HELL... MAKES FOR HEAVENLY READING.	This book chronicles the dramatic 1957 rescue of an Italian, amateur mountain climber from the north face of the Eiger. It is written in somewhat of a potboiler style which makes it a real easy reading, page turner.<br /> It is filled with facts and names from mountaineering history which will delight climbing enthusiasts. The famous Chamonix guide and one of the four climbers who figured prominently in the successful, yet tragic 1950 French conquest of Annapurna, Lionel Terray, figures prominently in the rescue portion of this narrative.<br /> The account focuses on a somewhat inept, amateur mountaineer, Claudio Corti, from the Lecco region of Italy. Having lost a number of his roping partners to the grim reaper on prior ascents with him on various mountains, he naturally encountered some difficulty in finding one to accompany him on an expedition to climb the nearly vertical, north face of the Eiger. He finally inveigled Stefano Lhongi, a very inexperienced climber, to accompany him and attempt one of the most perilous ascents in the world.<br /> This two man rope team was simply not prepared to make this ascent properly. Along their way up the north face of Eiger, they encounter two very experienced, German climbers also making the ascent of the Eiger's north face. What happens during their encounter, when disaster strikes, makes for some riveting reading.<br /> While Claudio Corti comes across as a thoroughly despicable buffoon, one's heart cannot help but break for the hapless Stefano Longhi and the poignancy of his tragic end on the brink of rescue. The rescue itself is an amazing account of courage, bravado, and confusion, as a multitude of mountaineers converge upon Eiger in order to try and save the four mountaineers who had not returned.<br /> While the rescue efforts account for the fate of the two Italians, the fate of the two German climbers was not ascertained until years later. This made for a mystery that for years caused members of the climbing community and journalists all over the world to heap opprobrium upon Corti, who proved himself to be simply an utter idiot. I leave if for readers of this book to discover for themselves what became of them.unity and journalists all over the world to heap opprobrium upon Corti, who proved himself to be simply an utter idiot. I leave if for readers of this book to discover for themselves what became of them.	2000-08-17
2335226:US	49355567	R38MHR4UCXAR07	1558215492	184757711	Annapurna	Books	4	37	40	N	N	EXTREME ADVENTURE FOR THE GLORY OF FRANCE AT 8,000 METERS	This book is a romanticized, sanitized account of the 1950 French expedition to the Himalayas by its so-called leader, Maurice Herzog. It is a book that is reflective of the times in which it was written. Still, it should be a must read for anyone who is interested in high altitude climbing.<br /><br />I first read this book in the early 1960s as a young teenager. I recall being enthralled by it and amazed at the hardships the climbers endured to bring glory to France. In reading it again as an adult, I find myself still enthralled, but more attuned to the fact that it is written in a somewhat self-serving style.<br />The book itself chronicles the attempt by the French to climb an 8,000 meter peak in the Himalayas. They had two alternatives: Dhaulagiri and Annapurna. In those days, the Himalayas were largely uncharted and any topographical maps, which existed at the time proved to be largely incorrect. So, the French expedition spent a large portion of their time in reconnaissance. Not only were they there to climb the mountain, they had to find a way to get to it and then map out a route on the unknown terrain to the summit. Ultimately, they chose to climb Annapurna.<br /><br />In reading this book, one must remember that the climb took place without the sophisticated equipment or protective clothing available today. This was before gortex and freeze-dried foods. This climb was made before Nepal or climbing the Himalayas became a major tourist attraction. The conditions for travelers were extremely primitive and difficult under the best of circumstances.<br /><br />When the expedition finally finds a route to Annapurna, the reader almost feels like cheering for them. When they start to climb, one senses that, in comparison to latter day expeditions, they are not so well equipped or savvy about the dangers one can encounter during a high altitude climb or the risks in doing it without supplemental oxygen, as they did. Then one realizes that they were pioneers. They were paving the way for others.<br /><br />The climb to the summit by Maurice Herzog and his partner, Louis Lachenal, is interesting, but it is their harrowing descent and return to civilization that is riveting. The two summiteers begin their descent but run into difficulties. They are fortunate to encounter two of their fellow climbers, Lionel Terray and Gaston Rebuffat, who are contemplating their own summit assault but, instead, choose to aid their comrades in the descent, foregoing their own quest for the summit.<br /><br />The travails which the climbers encounter on the descent would have finished off less hardy souls. Maurice Herzog loses his gloves during the descent and has no spare pair. One of them falls into a crevasse which, believe it or not, turns out to be a good thing. They are caught in an avalanche. They get lost in a storm. They become frostbitten and two of them, are, ultimately, forced to endure amputations.<br /><br />The medical treatment they received by the expedition doctor is unbelievable and almost primitive. Employing treatments for frostbite that have since fallen onto disrepute (excruciatingly painful arterial injections, for example), the doctor is almost frightening, at times. The reader cannot help but feel pity for the suffering the injured climbers endured: maggot ridden flesh, amputations without anaesthesia, and lack of proper medical care for a protracted period of time.<br /><br />The heroics of some of the Sherpas, as on most expeditions, go largely unsung. One must, however, pause to reflect on the fact that as this all took place before airlifts were available, the injured climbers had to be carried. Their exodus back to the frontier took about five weeks. Who carried them down the mountain, over the moraines, on makeshift bridges over flooded, raging rivers, through dense jungle? Who else but the Sherpas. What thanks did they get? None, as usual.<br /><br />Anyway, when the expedition finally return to France, Maurice Herzog is lauded as a national hero by the French. He becomes the media darling. The other three climbers, as are the rest of those on the expedition, are largely ignored and forgotten. Therein lies the tale. If you want to know how this polarization came about, I highly recommend that you also read 'True Summit' by David Roberts. It gives you the inside scoop about the expedition and how things really were.<br /><br />Notwithstanding its idealization, romanticism, and everything is hunky-dory routine, Herzog's book is still a must read for all climbing enthusiasts.erzog is lauded as a national hero by the French. He becomes the media darling. The other three climbers, as are the rest of those on the expedition, are largely ignored and forgotten. Therein lies the tale. If you want to know how this polarization came about, I highly recommend that you also read 'True Summit' by David Roberts. It gives you the inside scoop about the expedition and how things really were.<br /><br />Notwithstanding its idealization, romanticism, and everything is hunky-dory routine, Herzog's book is still a must read for all climbing enthusiasts.	2000-08-06
2335267:US	49355567	R3OGYE2B97SS2B	1561482285	248298833	Amish Women	Books	2	31	33	N	N	AMISH WOMEN...HO-HUM	This slim volume of the lives and stories of Amish women is a pleasant work. It is a small collection of interviews and anecdotes of Amish women.  The book is a simple, cleanly written work, giving the reader a taste of  what life is like for Amish women. It is, however, just that: a taste.  There is no depth to this book. It almost seems as if it were a work  published by a vanity press operation. It is more like a book one would  write and then have printed up in order to give it to friends and family.  There is really not too much to it, and it has a certain affectation about  it. It piques one's interest but does not satisfy an appetite. It is too  bad, because the author herself was raised in an Amish household.  Obviously, this gained her entree into this interesting, though narrow  world. It is unfortunate that she was not more insightful in terms of her  material.	2000-08-06
2335373:US	49355567	R3V6DX0IK5EB6D	0671041614	410661940	Surrogate Child	Books	1	4	4	N	N	DO NOT ADOPT SURROGATE CHILD	Having read 'The Need' which is a wonderful book by Andrew Neiderman, I  eagerly picked up 'Surrogate Child' in the belief that it, too, would be a  worthwhile read. I am sorry to say that it is one of the worst books that  I have ever read. The characters are one dimensional and not believable.  The plot, while somewhat interesting, never reaches its potential. Poorly  written, with a ridiculous ending, the book is not worthy of Mr. Neiderman.	2000-08-06
2337296:US	49355567	RB234QPLXX4K	0684867575	711966516	True Summit: What Really Happened on the Legendary Ascent of Annapurna	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	TRUE SUMMIT...TRULY  WONDERFUL	This book explores what may actually have happened during the 1950 French  expedition to the Himalayas which was 'led' by  Maurice Herzog. This  expedition was the first to summit an 8,000 meter peak, and it was the  cause for much nationalist pride in post-war France.<br /><br />'True Summit' is a  very interesting read in terms of its research, as well as its historical  and archival detail. Its author, David Roberts, is himself a mountaineer  and has an innate understanding of the subject matter of the book, which  contributes to its success.<br /><br />I would, however, highly recommend that one  first read Maurice Herzog's &#34;Annapurna&#34; which is Herzog's first  person, romanticized  account of the expedition and the source for much of  what is analyzed in this book. Reading it will ground readers of 'True  Summit' in the context out of which this book arises, and will make it that  much more enjoyable.<br /><br />After the ostensible summit of Annapurna (more about  this in 'True Summit') by Herzog and Louis Lachenal who were aided in their  harrowing descent by fellow expeditioners, Lionel Terray and Gaston  Rebuffat, only Maurice Herzog went on to become a national hero in France.  The other three mountaineers, all of whom were more experienced and  proficient, were largely ignored in what was to become a carefully  orchestrated, media event around Maurice Herzog.<br />&#34;True Summit&#34;  attempts to set the story straight and right past wrongs. It also helps to  debunk the self-serving, though gripping, sanitized account authored by  expedition leader Maurice Herzog. What emerges is a more realistic picture  of what may have actually transpired during that fateful, 1950 French  expedition.<br /><br />This book ensures that the contributions of three of the main  protagonists, Lachenal, Terray, and Rebuffat, all highly experienced  mountaineers from the Chamonix region of France, will not be forgatten. It  is a memorial to their efforts during that expedition and well worth  reading.xpedition and well worth  reading.	2000-08-05
2346167:US	49355567	R1VAEGU5XPU5UK	0312965338	8148905	The Climb: Tragic Ambitions on Everest	Books	3	132	148	N	Y	AIN'T NO MOUNTAIN HIGH ENOUGH...	This is the story about the 1996 Everest tragedy told from the perspective of Anatoli Boukreev, who was one of the guides on the ill-fated Mountain Madness expedition. It is written almost as a rebuttal to the perceived  criticism by Jon Krakauer (Into Thin Air) of Boukreev's actions on that  ill-fated Everest climb.<br /><br />This is a poorly written account that is  oftentimes confusing. It has none of the clarity of prose found in  Krakauer's \\"Into Thin Air\\". It is, however, an important  chronicle from someone who was there on Everest, and who had a pivotal role  in the tragic events. Boukreev provides an insider's view of the Mountain  Madness expedition itself and of the preparations which go into such a  journey. It is packed with many interesting details which will delight  Everest junkies.<br /><br />Whether Boukreev's actions on the mountain were  irresponsible, in that he did not use supplementary oxygen to summit and  immediately returned to camp after reaching the summit, rather than remain with the expedition's clients, or whether he was just following the orders of the  expedition leader, Scott Fisher, who himself died on Everest, is an issue  which will long be debated in mountaineering circles. There is no doubt,  however, that Boukreev did, in fact, single handedly rescue three of the  climbers during a raging blizzard; climbers who without his intervention  would have died. Given the extreme weather conditions, his foray up the  mountain to rescue climbers is nothing less than heroic.<br /><br />Boukreev's is  an important voice in the Everest annals, more so now that his voice has  been silenced. On Christmas day, 1997, Boukreev died in an avalanche on  Annapurna. RIP.	2000-07-30
2346596:US	49355567	R3RTDY6VZ6SX1D	0060916540	876635042	Touching the Void: The Harrowing First Person Account Of One Man's Miraculous Survival	Books	4	121	128	N	N	EXTREME ADVENTURE IN THE PERUVIAN ANDES	An amazing tale of courage, fortitude, and a desire to live, despite dire circumstances. The author, Joe Simpson and his climbing partner, Simon Yates, ascend a perilous section of the Peruvian Andes. Near the summit,  tragedy strikes when Joe, up over 19,000 feet, falls and hits a slope at  the base of a cliff, breaking his right leg, rupturing his right knee, and  shattering his right heel. Beneath him is a seemingly endless fall to the  bottom. Simon reaches him but knows that the chances for Joe to get off the  mountain are virtually non-existent. Yet, they fashion a daring plan to to  do just that.<br /><br />  For the next few hours, through a snow storm, they  work in tandem, and manage a risky, yet effective way of trying to lower  Joe down the mountain. About three thousand feet down, Joe who is still  roped to Simon, drops off an edge, and finds himself now free hanging in  space six feet away from an ice wall, unable to reach it with his axe. The  edge is over hung about fifteen feet above him. The dark outline of a  crevasse lies about a hundred feet directly below him.<br /><br />Joe couldn't get  up, and Simon couldn't get down. In fact, Joe's weight began to pull Simon  off the mountain. So, Simon was finally forced to do the only thing he  could do under the circumstances. He cut the rope, believing that he was  consigning his friend to certain death. Therein lies the tale.<br /><br />What  happens next is sure to make one believe in miracles.	2000-07-30
2346952:US	49355567	R2GOCS3BB86GBX	0385486804	674569455	Into the Wild	Books	5	211	233	N	Y	INTO THE WILD...INTO YOUR HEART	This is a poignant, compelling narrative about Chris McCandless, an intelligent, intense, and idealistic young man, who cut off all ties to his upper middle class family. He then reinvented himself as Alexander Supertramp, a drifter living out of a backpack, eking out a marginal existence as he wandered throughout the United States. A modern day King of the Road, McCandless ended his journey in 1992 in Alaska, when he walked alone into the wilderness north of Denali. He never returned.<br /><br />Krakauer investigates this young man's short life in an attempt to explain why someone who has everything going for him would have chosen this lifestyle, only to end up dead in one of the most remote, rugged areas of the Alaskan wilderness. Whether one views McCandless as a fool or as a modern day Thoreau is a question ripe for discussion. It is clear, however, from Krakauer's writing that his investigation led him to feel a strong, spiritual kinship with McCandless. It is this kindred spirit approach to his understanding of this young man that makes Krakauer's writing so absorbing and moving.<br /><br />Krakauer retraced McCandless' journey, interviewing many of those with whom he came into contact. What metamorphosed is a haunting, riveting account of McCandless' travels and travails, and the impact he had on those with whom he came into contact. Krakauer followed McCandless' last steps into the Alaskan wilderness, so that he could see for himself how McCandless had lived, and how he had died. This book is his epitaph.	2000-07-30
2347281:US	49355567	R194MZ9BXAVMQ4	0684865459	915618001	High Exposure: An Enduring Passion for Everest and Unforgiving Places	Books	5	28	29	N	Y	WORLD CLASS CLIMBER...WORLD CLASS FILMMAKER..WORLD CLASS READ	This is a terrific book which draws you into David Breashears' world. You follow his development from young rock climber to world class mountaineer and filmmaker. You also see his development as a person, all while drawing  you into that exclusive club of mountaineers. He makes you feel his passion  for the mountains he so loves. You learn how he combined that passion with  the art of cinematography, making him an award winning filmmaker.<br /><br />You  live through the 1996 tragedy on Everest with him, and feel the compassion  that he has for those who died on the mountain under such tragic  circumstances. The narrative is always compelling and informative, making  the book a hard one to put down. His compassion and sensitivity towards  those who did not fare well on the ill-fated 1996 Everest climb is  palpable, and for his assistance to those who needed it, even though it put  him and his expedition in jeopardy, he is truly an unsung hero. This is,  without a doubt, a man who leads by example.<br /><br />David Breashears writes  beautifully of his experiences and his book is a must read for all climbing  enthusiasts, as well as for those simply interested in the human condition.  This is a book that is simply too good to pass up.	2000-07-29
2348329:US	49355567	R1IDMB86YPETOK	0375504044	393898778	Left for Dead: My Journey Home from Everest	Books	3	13	21	N	Y	LEFT FOR DEAD...LUCKY TO BE ALIVE...LUCKY TO BE READ	This book has a great title, as it sums up Beck Weathers' Mt. Everest experience.Unfortunately, this is the only great thing about this book. It is, at best, a mildly interesting book. The only truly interesting part is  his recollection of the Everest trip and its immediate aftermath. His  survival, which is truly amazing, is almost glossed over and turned into a  sad soap opera about a marriage gone stale with time.<br />It does seem that  Beck's patient wife, Peach, had been ill treated in the sense that he would  go off to do some amateur mountain climbing (with the emphasis on amateur),  leaving her with the kids for weeks at a time and remaining incommunicado.  Since her voice is interspersed throughout this book, you can see why he  might want to get away. A more insipid voice, I can't imagine. She is what  is bad about this book. Yet, at the same time it was her efforts, along  with those of her friends, which were the catalyst for the herculean  helicopter rescue by Colonel Madan K.C. who brought Beck down from the  mountain. Still, she is an utter bore.<br />What is good about the book is  Beck's sense of humor and his indomitable spirit, which is undoubtedly what  kept him alive in unbelievably harsh conditions on Everest. Though it is  those like him who, financially able to go on these expeditions but lacking  the technical skill to effectively navigate the harsh terrain, put  themselves and others at risk. While it is clear that he was delighted to  be rubbing shoulders with the mountaineering elite on Everest, it did not  seem to dawn on him that he was just another foolhardy dilettante who,  though having had some climbing experience, simply did not belong on  Everest. It is this hubris which brought him to this pass. Quite frankly,  given his description of his mountaineering efforts on some of the world's  other tall peaks, it is a miracle he was not left for dead long before  Everest.	2000-07-29
2348370:US	49355567	R32TM2VV3AYN9G	0812931599	657286306	The Other Side of Everest: Climbing the North Face Through the Killer Storm	Books	4	11	14	N	Y	killer storm...killer story	This is a gripping account of the deadly storm which engulfed Mt. Everest in May 1996 and left a trail of dead bodies in its wake on the south face of the mountain. The author writes about the storm as experienced on the  north face: hence, the title of the book. He writes about the tragedy which  engulfed the north side of Everest, in which death also came calling.<br /><br />The author provides many details of his expedition's ascent which is  sure to fascinate and delight all Everest junkees. The narrative is  compelling and absorbing. The tragic deaths of three members of the Indian  team who reached the summit, only to become engulfed by the storm during  their descent down the precipitous north face of Everest, trapping them  over night, is heartbreaking. The callousness of a Japanese expedition who,  on their ascent to the summit the following day, passed the Indian  climbers, still alive but near death, and refused to aid them in their  extremis, is truly shocking.<br /><br />The author also rehashes the effect of the  storm on the south face and the heavy toll of life it exacted there. Jon  Krakauer, however, does it better in his gripping book &#34;Into Thin  Air&#34;.  In the final analysis, the author, Matt Dickinson, a novice  climber who first ascended Everest that May 1996, comes across as a  self-absorbed, selfish sort of lout. Notwithstanding  his own personal  shortcomings, however, his book still makes for an absorbing read.	2000-07-29
2351020:US	49355567	RBG4T5ZXEUJIP	0451188454	582723746	The Bone Collector: The First Lincoln Rhyme Novel	Books	5	19	21	N	N	NO BONE TO PICK WITH THE BONE COLLECTOR...	This is an especially suspenseful thriller made more so by the personal angst of the main character, Lincoln Rhyme. A quadriplegic, forensic ex-detective for the New York City Police Department, Rhyme is brought out of retirement by the police department to assist them in the apprehension of an apparently psychopathic killer who is loose on the streets of New York.<br /><br />The forays into bits of arcane New York history, as well as the sleuthing done almost entirely through the application of forensics and deductive reasoning, make for a very interesting read. While at times it seems that no one could be as uncannily accurate as Rhyme in deciphering the meaning of the physical evidence, this contrivance does serve to move the plot along. With the story line so engrossing and the crime scenes horrific, as well as ingenious, it is the kind of book that is hard to put down, because you simply cannot wait to see what happens. The surprise ending is the icing on the cake.<br /><br />Assisting Rhyme with his work is Police Officer Sachs who, while not as compelling a character as Rhyme, is essential to the story. It is her character who does the 'heavy lifting' so to speak. Highly intelligent and resourceful, with an innate appreciation of the importance of physical evidence, she inspects and preserves the crime scenes, as well as gathers the physical evidence from which Rhyme ultimately weaves his magic. She also serves as somewhat of a Deus Ex Machina in that she saves the day in more ways than one.<br /><br />Sachs is a wonderful foil for Rhyme in that she runs hot to his cold. She is driven by her desire to help others, as well as by her own personal demons, while he is ever the calm, cool, collected clinician, whose desire to preserve a crime scene may supercede the milk of human kindness latent within his emotionally atrophied soul. The personal connection that Rhyme ultimately develops with Officer Sachs is one that leaves you hoping that they will be teamed up again in yet another novel.again in yet another novel.	2000-07-27
2354797:US	49355567	R1PAFXQZ8CG7LF	0380974495	986179021	The Passion	Books	5	19	19	N	N	SOMETHING TO HOWL ABOUT...	Compelling, absorbing, and lyrical... Ms. Boyd can sure tell a story. She spins a tale of a subculture of urbane werewolves that exist and live amidst humans, unbeknownst to most of them. They are wealthy, elegant, intelligent, well-educated, and powerful: the consummate \\"beautiful people\\" known as the Devoncroix clan.<br /><br />It is a story that is sinuous in its imagery and sensual in its use of language. The author expertly weaves the tale of Alexander, head of the Devoncroix clan, and his connection to the all too human Tessa. It is Tessa's fascination with Alexander and his fascination with her that is at the heart of this novel.<br /><br />The author's description of werewolves and their subculture is intriguing and spellbinding. She draws you in and before you know it, you are caught: hook, line, and sinker. You dread coming to the end of the book, and when you do, you cannot wait to go out and get the sequel. Anne Rice, beware! Here comes the heir apparent. Anyway, the book is a great read.	2000-07-25
2358238:US	49355567	R22W7LK9UVKVM5	1578050227	378166595	Annapurna: A Woman's Place (20th Anniversary Edition)	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	A WOMAN'S PLACE IS ON TOP...	This is, without a doubt, one of the best books written about a specific mountain climbing expedition. This particular book is a lyrical and moving account of the the first women's expedition to climb Annapurna in the  Himalayas. It provides great detail and insight into their two month  odyssey in the mountain and chronicles the challenges that they faced in  trying to reach the summit.<br /><br />The leader of the expedition authored  the book and her characterizations of her fellow expeditioners are  interesting and engaging. Her description of life on an expedition is  filled with a myriad of detail that will enthrall all armchair climbers,  as well as climbing enthusiasts. These details make for gripping reading, at  times, and her descriptive narrative is always evocative of another time  and place. In reading it, one realizes just how far women have come in  terms of acceptance in the mountain climbing arena.<br /><br />  Their time spent  on the mountain is illustrated by photographs that beautifully resonate  with the lyricism of the author's chronicle. The obstacles they overcame, their  day to day travails, the bonding and alliances that formed amonst the  different members of the expedition, all add to the beauty of the book. The  photographs memorialize those moments in time that best evoke the nuances  of what it was like on the expedition and, at the same time, give one a  sense of the beauty and majesty of the mountain.<br /><br />  The success of the  expedition in terms of their having actually reached the summit, however,  is clouded by the tragic loss of two of its members on a second,  ill-advised attempt to reach the summit. Nonetheless, the quest of the American Women  Himalayan Expedition to reach the summit of Annapurna is a testament  to courage and commitment. It is also a great read.	2000-07-22
