537418:US	49390985	R1O9TDREC3DIRP	034546835X	939865715	The Language of Power	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Behind the Scenes within Wizardry	The Language of Power is the fourth novel in the Steerswoman series, following The Lost Steersman.  In the previous novel, Rowan traveled to the Demon lands searching for Janus, the lost steersman.  She learned that the indigenous Demons are fellow sentients who communicate by body language and by physical icons produced by the females.  She also discovered that Janus has gone mad and killed many of the Demons.  She was badly burned on her left leg and only lived to return to civilization with the assistance of Janus, who jumped ship and disappeared prior to her recovering full consciousness. <br /> <br />In this novel, Rowan takes up her hunt once more for the elusive prime wizard, Slado, within the Annex archives at Alemeth.  She discovers that Slado had been an apprentice to the Wizard Kiernan in Donner, so she takes ship to question the inhabitants of that town.  Since Slado had ordered Jannik, the current wizard in Donner, to attack her during a prior visit, Bel and Dan the Cooper pretend to be a separate party while actually guarding Rowan. <br /> <br />Once in Donner, they discover that Jannik is out of town for a few days.  Rowan begins tracking down older inhabitants and learns more about Kiernan and Slado while Bel and Dan continue to watch her back.  They discover that three people are constantly intersecting their paths:  a stinking beggar faking blindness, a middle-aged woman and a mature man.  Rowan and Bel assume that these people are minions of the wizards and set up an ambush.  However, the results of this gambit are quite unexpected and they find themselves reunited with William, their young friend who had been apprenticed to the Wizard Corvus.  Together they plan an intrusion into the former home of the Wizard Kiernan (and present home of the Wizard Jannik) to search for information on the fallen Guidestar. <br /> <br />In this novel, Rowan finds out much more about the history of her people, the nature of magic, and the events surrounding the fall of the Guidestar.  However, the new answers only invoke new questions.  Obviously there will be another installment in this fascinating series. <br /> <br />Highly recommended for Kirstein fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of human settlers on an alien planet and the resulting conflict between local and imported ecologies. <br /> <br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-08-31
545294:US	49390985	R3M4ZN1C1LNP0F	0743488164	839192537	The Second Coming (The Millennium Series)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Contrary to Popular Belief...	The Second Coming is first novel in The Millennium series. Sometime in the near future, a Great Depression has the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse riding over the world. The Middle East has been devastated by the One-Day War and Israeli refugees are crowding into California. Four major parties vie for power in the United States; Florence Metzger, the current President, is from the Centrist party. Eight messiahs have been proclaimed since 2005, including two Islamic Madhis, one Buddhist Maitreya, and five Christians.<br /><br />Ngunda Eliga Aran is one of these Christian messiahs, although he has not yet acknowledged his status. Born in Malawi of an African mother, his father was a New Zealander with Maori, Irish and English ancestry. A graduate of the University of Toronto in computer science, Aran became a research assistant at Advanced Artificial Intelligence Systems while going to grad school part-time. He became a vice president at AAIS at age twenty-five, but resigned at age thirty to pursue the spiritual side of his life. He eventually became a psychotherapist, then a new-age columnist, and founded Millennium to promote tolerance and compassion throughout the world.<br /><br />In this novel, Lee Shoreff and her husband Ben are hired by Millennium and, with their two daughters, move out west to live at the organization compound. Lee has had a bad experience with a religious cult and is very suspicious of the organization's goals and lifestyle, but the depression has ruined her consulting business and Ben has lost his job, so they need the money. She becomes a close associate of Dove -- the name used for Aran by his inner circle -- and participates in many of the everyday functions as she redesigns the organization. Gradually she loses her apprehensions and starts to identify with the Millennium purposes.<br /><br />Millennium has many enemies who feel a burning anger when they hear Dove speak. Luther Koskela is a mercenary soldier who has been hired by his uncles to assassinate Aran. Thomas Corkery is an ex-IRA thug who has been hired by the Catholic Soldiers of America to dispose of Aran. Other individuals and groups are also out to eliminate Aran and his teachings.<br /><br />This novel is a story of the millennium and the second coming, but with a twist. This coming will not be the second, but more like the eighth, and the event will occur later than expected. Many of the signs will also be unexpected, but still unmistakable. Once again, the messiah will not conform to popular beliefs, but will nevertheless bring a definite and clear message to the world.<br /><br />The novel incorporates many existing threads into this messianic tale, including Chelsea Quinn Yarbro's personality typing from the four Michael books. Many of the elements are new-age beliefs derived from Buddhist and other Oriental thinking. Thus, it will conflict with popular millennial thought. Overall, it depicts a very believable portrayal of the coming of an avatar to divert the world from a hateful and nonproductive path into one of increased cooperation and love.<br /><br />Highly recommended for Dalmas fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of the intervention of higher powers into the ordinary world.<br /><br />-Arthur W. Jordinn. Thomas Corkery is an ex-IRA thug who has been hired by the Catholic Soldiers of America to dispose of Aran. Other individuals and groups are also out to eliminate Aran and his teachings.     This novel is a story of the millennium and the second coming, but with a twist. This coming will not be the second, but more like the eighth, and the event will occur later than expected. Many of the signs will also be unexpected, but still unmistakable. Once again, the messiah will not conform to popular beliefs, but will nevertheless bring a definite and clear message to the world.     The novel incorporates many existing threads into this messianic tale, including Chelsea Quinn Yarbro's personality typing from the four Michael books. Many of the elements are new-age beliefs derived from Buddhist and other Oriental thinking. Thus, it will conflict with popular millennial thought. Overall, it depicts a very believable portrayal of the coming of an avatar to divert the world from a hateful and nonproductive path into one of increased cooperation and love.     Highly recommended for Dalmas fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of the intervention of higher powers into the ordinary world.     -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-08-24
591496:US	49390985	R3QKDGLGTAD524	0380979039	86692379	Forge of Heaven	Books	5	13	18	N	N	Interference From Earth	Forge of Heaven is the second novel in the Gene Wars series, following Hammerfall.  In the previous volume, the Human Commonwealth developed a layered defense against genetic and nanotech contamination, with Earth itself at the heavily protected center.  Around Earth were the almost as well-protected Inner Worlds.  Surrounding these were the Outsider Worlds, where gengineering and even nanotechnology was practiced routinely, but with heavy safeguards;  among the Outsider Worlds were the four Ruined planets, where runamuck genetic diversity had caused great devastation during the Gene Wars.  Beyond all these, at the border with ondat space, was Concord Station, where Earth, the Outsiders and the ondat have been monitoring the recovery of Marak's World from the devastating Hammerfall.<br />For a while, the Outsider Worlds achieved autonomy from Earth after their abandonment by the mother planet during the Gene Wars.  However, Earth has reasserted her rights to dominate all human space and now appoints the governors of each Outsider planet and Station, except Apex.  However, the Outsiders elect their own Councils, as well as the High Council at Apex, and thus effectively restrict the power of the home planet.<br />Ila is the only survivor of the Movement.  Even after fleeing to the Refugee, Ila controls a powerful inventory of biological and nanotechnical agents and has been using this capability to reform and rebuild the hammered Marak's world.  One of the benefits of such genetic engineering is a greatly extented lifetime;  thus, Ila is probably the oldest living human, with a lifespan of close to a millennium.  With all this experience to draw from, and her expanded lifespan, Ila is capable of implementing very longterm plans.  Concord Station exists primarily to prevent Ila from gaining total control.<br />In this novel, centuries after the Hammerfall, the Planetary Office on Concord Station is still monitoring the Hammerfall survivors and their descendants.  Marak, Hati and some of the young men are trekking across unexplored territory to observe the slowly eroding Southern Wall, which separates the sea from the lowlands beyond.  They have come along the ridge between the Needle River Gorge and the lowlands and have reached the narrowest point.  Here they make camp, set up a relay, and prepare for a heavy blow.<br />The next day, the fading storm is followed by an earthquake and multiple aftershocks.  All the beshti, except the personal mounts of Marak and Hati, break loose from the tether-line and flee into the early morning shadows.  Marak and Hati have to leave the youngsters behind in the camp and chase after the runaway beshti.  The tremors have also caused leaks in the Southern Wall and it seems that the sea may break through much sooner than expected.  Naturally, the runaway beshti head down toward the lowlands, where they are likely to drown if Marak and Hati don't get them turned around very quickly.<br />Procyon, ne Jeremy Stafford, is the youngest of the Taps assigned to Marak.  The biotechnology implanted within his brain allows him to communicate directly with a similar device within Marak's skull.  Procyon is excited by the current excursion and eager to vicariously tag along as Marak explores the region.  However, he is pulled from his normal rotation and ordered to meet with a special envoy from Earth, Andreas Gide, who has lately arrived with only minimal prior notification.<br />Shortly after his arrival, Gide specifically demanded to speak to Procyon.  Since Procyon works for the Planetary Office, the Earth appointed Governor, Setha Reaux, passed this demand on to Antonio Brazis, Chairman of the Outsider Council on Concord and also Director of the PO.  Both men agree to let Procyon meet with the Earth envoy to possibly discover the purpose of the unannounced visit.<br />Procyon has an uncomfortable interview with the special envoy, who is encased in an oval-shaped machine with a highly supple armor that protects him from contamination, yet can mimic his facial expression and gestures.  Procyon stonewalls the envoy on all subjects related to his job, but is astounded at how much information on his personal life is known to the envoy.  As Procyon exits the dwelling after the interview, someone fires a projectile past him and breaches the shell around the envoy.  Procyon pulls the confused and angry envoy from the burning machine and then wanders out the door in a state of shock.<br />In this story, Procyon is the center of the political storm, with his sister among the avant-garde of the station, his access to Marak on the planet, and his official contacts with the station authorities.  Moreover, Kekellen and his band of suborned robots add another link, this time to the ondat.  At least Procyon doesn't have to pretend anymore that he has a dull, ordinary job.<br />The series seems to be bringing the Earth appointed Governor and the Outsider Chairman closer together against the various Earth factions.  In fact, the harsh nonreturn policy resulting from Earth's fear of biological and nanotechnical contamination is leaving Commonwealth appointed administrators on the Outsider Worlds with vested interests in the local societies, where they and their families have been essentially exiled for the foreseeable future.  It seems that Earth and the Inner Worlds are politically as well as biologically isolating themselves from the rest of human space.<br />This series, with the craft allusions -- Hammer, Forge -- in the volume names, appears to be building toward some great work.  Possibly the next volume with be called Mill of the Gods, for the series is grinding exceedingly slowly, but also exceedingly fine.  If so, the next novel will probably take place several centuries after this installment.<br />Highly recommended for Cherryh fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of alien contact and exotic societies.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-07-13
593075:US	49390985	R1MIM6NT0OYFQW	0061052604	173162111	Hammerfall (Gene Wars)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Madness From the Desert	Hammerfall (2001) is the first SF novel in the Gene Wars series.  In the far future, the Earth Commonwealth has spread her colonies into the galaxy, locating waystations in convenient systems along the star lanes.  A lucrative cluster of G5 stars located in a circle of mutually reachable systems has attracted extremely heavy colonization along an axis that eventually brings humans into contact with the ondat, an alien society with its own starfaring capabilities.    The alien encounter occurred at an unfortunate time, for a social conflict over genetic engineering and nanotechnology has erupted in war among the human worlds.  An organization called the Movement secretly settled several planets with bioengineered humans, animals and plants.  Earth reacted violently to this intensive use of gengineering and a long war ensued.      When ondat ships visiting human worlds became contaminated with Movement nanisms and unsuspectingly carried these infections back to their own home world, they first blamed all of humanity for the damage.  However, the ondat eventually distinguished between the Commonwealth and their enemy and developed an ad hoc truce with human forces allied against the Movement.  Later, the ondat led Earth ships to a previously unknown world where a single survivor of the Movement, Ila, has ruled for centuries with the help of her genetic and nanotech agents.    In this novel, Marak Trin Tain has heard voices in his head for as long as he can remember.  As the heir of the powerful Tain Trin Tain, Marak kept his madness secret until he finally fell into a fit as a young man.  His father had him taken to the holy city with the other possessed ones.    Within the city, Marak is brought to an interview with Ila, his father's enemy, and confesses his aberration.  He agrees to lead  a caravan into the eastern desert to look for the source of the madness.  With sixty-nine beshti, an experienced caravaneer and his men, and forty-one of the mad, Marak leaves the holy city and heads east.    As he travels, Marak teaches the villagers among the mad how to ride the beshti, to conserve water, and to survive the storms.  He finds a tribeswoman among the mad, Hati, who becomes his second-in-command.  They reach Pori and move off the Lakht into the unknown.    In this story, Marak finds the tower in the desert and is given a message for Ila.  Death is coming from the skies and all must free to a Refugee in the eastern desert;  any who remain will be destroyed in the Hammerfall.  So Marak returns to lead the exodus.    This story has the signature touch of the author, but adds a degree of confusion and illogic beyond that of her other books.  Marak is not only unaware of the major factors effecting his world, but is also overwhelmed occasionally by the voices and visions.  He walks a narrow road between necessity and frenzy.  The overall mood is strange and befuddling and the action is minimal, but Marak begins to insinuate himself into your mind.    Highly recommended for Cherryh fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of exotic societies in unusual environments.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-07-12
594735:US	49390985	R32LCJ7RND79OU	0060586605	863190678	A Hat Full of Sky	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Witch For the People	A Hat Full of Sky is the thirty-second novel in the Discworld series, following Monstrous Regiment.  This novel is a sequel to the story in The Wee Free Men, wherein nine year old Tiffany Aching met the Nac Mac Feegles, or Pictsies, a less attractive kind of fairies.  When their Kelda -- or Queen -- died, the Feegles chose Tiffany as her (temporary) replacement.  Tiffany proved her mettle by whanging the Queen of Fairy with a frying pan and was later recruited as a witch by Granny Weatherwax.<br />In this novel, two years later, Tiffany goes away from the Chalk Country to discover her witch powers as the apprentice of Miss Level in the Ramtops.  The Feegles are still watching out for her and note that she is being followed by a Hiver, a nonmaterial spirit who possesses humans or animals.  After some moments of jealousy, the new Kelda, Jeannie, sends her husband Rob Anybody and fifty Feegles to protect Tiffany from the Hiver.<br />Miss Perspicacia Tick escorts Tiffany to the town of Twoshirts on the cartier's cart.  Along the way, Miss Tick keeps having feelings that something is watching them.  When they meet Miss Level in the woods near Twoshirts, both senior witches have the same feeling.  However, nothing menacing is to be found in the vicinity, so Tiffany reluctantly climbs on the broomstick behind Miss Level and off they fly to her new residence.  <br />Before they leave, Miss Level asks Tiffany if she is afraid of heights and Tiffany says that she is not;  however, she should have told Miss Level that she is really afraid of depths.  Since Tiffany had forgotten to wear woolen trousers to protect against the cold, Miss Level mostly flies just above ground level, except when she is flying straight up a waterfall.  Tiffany tries to keep her eyes shut as much as possible, for the ground is just a blur as they fly over.  Every time they come to a fence or hedge, Miss Level says \\"Here we go!\\" or \\"Ups-a-daisy!\\", which does not help Tiffany's queasy stomach.  She throws up twice on the journey.<br />After they arrive, Miss Level immediately takes Tiffany to her room and lets her prepare for bed.  Of course, she brings up a tray of beef stew for supper, which Tiffany manages to eat despite the efforts of an invisible sprite to take away the dishes.  Tiffany discovers the next day that the invisible creature is an ondageist, who tidies up things.  She also discovers that Miss Level has two (2) bodies with only a single mind.<br />In this story, Tiffany is attacked and possessed by the Hiver before the Feegles can reach her.  The creature uses her mind and abilities to appear as a powerful witch and it scares the dickens out of Annagramma, a fellow apprentice who likes to put down her sisters.   When the Feegles arrive, they cross over into her mind to fight the creature.  Miss Weatherwax also comes to help with the Hiver.  Together they all toss it out on its ear, but it is still around and it can't be killed.  Moreover, Tiffany feels that she is missing something.<br />Tiffany learns a lot about herself and her beloved Granny Aching while she is residing in the Ramtops.  In fact, she learns that she has a lot of Granny Aching within herself.  Despite Annagramma's cuts and put-downs, Tiffany rises above petty jealousy to accomplish remarkable deeds and to accept the accolades of Granny Weatherwax herself.<br />Overall, this novel is as fully satisfying as the first tale about Tiffany.  The scene where Tiffany dances with the bees is filled with vicarious joy!  How can the author produce such a humorous book that also makes the reader feel so alive?  Another winner in the Discworld series!<br />Highly recommended for Pratchett fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of self-reliant young ladies who are willing to face their shortcomings, but also willing to accept their strengths.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-07-11
598290:US	49390985	R2WOTAYJB7OZU8	0451459784	229531099	Bio Rescue	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A Kevarzangian Style Romance	Bio Rescue is the first novel in a new sequence within the StarDoc universe.  In previous volumes, the planet Kevarzangia Two (K-2) has established their independence from Earth and joined the Allied League as an autonomous planet.  One of the consequences of this changed political relationship with Earth is the planetary obligation to provide for the common defense, including spatial defense.<br />In this novel, Commander Jadaira mu T'resa is the leader of a squadron of strafer craft flying a routine patrol which encounters a passenger freighter caught within a Hsktskt displacer blockade.  The vessel is leaving a wide debris trail, but refuses assistance from the K-2 ships.  Dair rescues the vessel anyway.<br />The pilot of the damaged vessel is Rushan Amariah, a religious personage among the Skartesh.  His people are refugees from their own home world, which was rendered uninhabitable by the Hsktskt.  Shan, as the Salvager, is thought to be the long prophesied savior of the Skartesh people, destined to lead them back to a restored home world.<br />The Skartesh are not well liked by other groups on K-2.  They are often referred to as the Skittish due to their habit of avoiding physical contact with other species.  Moreover, they have been gathering in enclaves on K-2 for some time and have been bringing political and legal pressure on the government to forward their own goals.  They are also hydrophobic, sweat heavily in the damp climate on K-2, are prone to a fur disease somewhat like mange, and have the custom of urinating on each other.  Thus, many individuals of other species are repelled by their appearance and stench.<br />In this story, Dair and Shan have a complicated relationship, mixing a certain amount of appeal with a great deal of repulsion.  Just to make their relationship more complicated, Dair's second in command, Lieutenant Onkar, has selected her as his future mate.  Sometimes Dair finds herself barely able to keep Onkar from killing Shan (and other times she herself is filled with killing rage at the Skarkesh).<br />Normally Dair and Shan would have little to do with each other, for Dair is a native Kevarzangian, an amphibious species who spend most of their time underwater.  However, Dair and the rest of her squadron are SEALs (Surgically Enhanced/Altered Lifeforms), with bodies modified to allow them to spend much longer intervals away from the sea while on patrol.  <br />Dair, however, is even more modified, for she had almost died with her mother after the Core infection attacked the pregnant female.  Dair's mother held on to life long enough to expel Jadaira from her body, but the premature infant was kept alive only by the urgent efforts of the Terran scientist Teresa Selmar.  Using available Terran biomass to supplement the immature 'Zangian organs and other body parts, Teresa created a very humanoid body for Dair.<br />Teresa provides a strong contrast with Dr. Joseph Grey Veil in the StarDoc series.  Both saved a child's life by dint of heroic biosurgical intervention, but Doctor Grey Veil considered that such effort made Cherijo his possession.  Teresa, however, felt that her efforts made Dair her responsibility.  She formed a close emotional attachment to the young 'Zangian and then to the father, Dairatha;  eventually Teresa became Dair's stepmother.  <br />This story presents a series of cultural conflicts between the 'Zangians and the other species on the planet.  For example, 'Zangians never try to save their injured, for the slightest trace of blood in the waters causes the sea raptors to congregate in a feeding frenzy, so the concept of a medical rescue service is a puzzlement to most of the natives.  Indeed, they see little need for medicine itself.<br />The 'Zangians are not only puzzled by the Skartesh, but also downright offended by their mores and customs.  How can they trust something that is afraid of water?  Some of this confusion comes from the wide differences between a desert mammal and a deep sea amphibian, but there are also severe conflicts in religious attitudes, for the 'Zangians have little in the way of an organized religion while the Skartesh are governed by their religious authorities.<br />This new duology promises to be very entertaining, for social conflicts and misunderstandings abound and the Hsktskt are always waiting in the wings to tide over the dull spots.  The author is not among the greats of the field, but she does keeps the reader's attention throughout the book.  Hopefully this storyline will expand to more than two volumes.<br />Recommended for Viehl fans and for anyone else who enjoys light tales of humans and exotic aliens living together in turbulent, conflicted, yet hopeful relationships within a very mixed society.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-07-08
602888:US	49390985	RKAXTDB1GURO8	0345461258	356908131	Lost and Found: The Taken Trilogy Book 1	Books	5	17	19	N	N	A Noble Savage Among the Decadent Aliens?	Lost and Found is the first novel in The Taken trilogy.  Marcus Walker was a commodities broker from Chicago.  Somehow, he found himself camping near the miniature metropolis of Bug Jump, California, to win a bet that he could actually survive outside civilization.  Aside from a close encounter with the relatives of a possibly pregnant maiden, Marcus was looking good going in to the home stretch.  Then he heard some strange noises around his tent and opened the flap to shine his flashlight directly into the eyes of a very alien countenance. <br /> <br />In this novel, Marcus wakes up the next day in a fairly convincing simulation of his campsite, but not in California.  Instead, he is on a starship many lightyears away from home and putting even more distance from Chicago with each second.  After some days of solitary confinement in his little diorama, one wall opens up to reveal the neighboring cell, an urban alley scene, and its inhabitant, a now talking dog of unknown ancestry. <br /> <br />After some discussion, the dog lets Marcus address him as George.  Strangely enough, he is also a native of Chicago and was taken directly from that city.  George has not been as belligerent as Marcus, so he has had the run of the common area for several days and has met many of their fellow captives.  Thanks to his universal translator implant, George has discovered much about their captors.  Among other info, George has discovered that they were captured for the curiosities market by a mercantile company of Vilenjji. <br /> <br />With some coaching by George, Marcus begins to mingle with the other captives and soon starts working on a plan to gain their freedom.  He meets two other captives with exceptional mental and physical powers and brings them into the conspiracy.  Despite their blatant disbelief in his goals, Marcus is determined at the least to strike back at their captors and, if remotely possible, to escape from the ship. <br /> <br />In this story, Marcus learns that he is not very special.  Only his ability to learn humility keeps him alive.  However, he perseveres in his goals, despite all objections;  some would say that he is just too dumb to understand his situation, but he doesn't agree ... most of the time (those midnight doubts are hell). <br /> <br />The storyline combines the tale of the ignorant savage introduced to high society with that of the powerless slave escaping from the chains of a hellship.  Of course, the author includes a clean, disease-free environment maintained by advanced automata, so the outward forms of this captivity are not as visible, but the psychological environment is just as miserable. <br /> <br />Highly recommended for Foster fans and for anyone else who enjoys light tales of humans among advanced technological societies and sophisticated sapients. <br /> <br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-07-05
604987:US	49390985	R858T254HTU7	0765304694	759791610	The Dragon's Son (Dragonvarld Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Raising the Sons	The Dragon's Son is the second novel in the Dragonvarld Trilogy, following Mistress of Dragons.  In the previous volume, the Mistress of Dragons, Melisande, was kidnapped by King Edward before her heart could be removed and was taken from the Kingdom of Seth with the reluctant assistance of Draconas, the Walker.  For a long while, they were chased relentlessly by the women warriors of Seth, but eventually they evaded their pursuers.  After they reached a temporary refugee, Edward and Melisande coupled together in sheer relief.  Soon thereafter, the dragon in a man's body, Grald, found Melisande alone and raped her.<br />Draconas sent Edward back to his wife, children and kingdom, then took Melisande away to a hidden village.  Bellona, her friend and lover, accompanied the Mistress of Dragons into hiding.  Months later, Melisande had began labor with her two sons, one by Edward and the other by Grald, when the warrior women found them again and attacked the cottage where she was giving birth.  Draconas saved the two boys, but Melisande was killed.<br />In this novel, Draconas has sent Marcus, Edward's son, to be raised by his father, but Bellona is fostering Ven, the dragon's son, in a cabin deep within the forest.  Every year, Bellona takes her furs to one of the nearby harvest fairs and uses the coin to buy things that they can neither produce nor forage for themselves.  When Ven is six, they go to the market at Fairfield.  There Ven is attacked by a dog and his trouser leg is torn.  Some of the bystanders are sure that they see blue scales through the tears, but a kindly bystander examines the damage and shows that the only thing under the cloth is a bloody, ravaged leg.<br />Of course, the kindly stranger is Draconas, who has used illusion to hide the scaled leg of the dragon's son.  Nonetheless, a nun who witnesses the whole episode disappears shortly thereafter.  Draconas soon discovers that she is working with Grald, so he hurries Bellona and Ven out of the fair and back home.<br />After that, Ven is very reluctant to accompany Bellona to any fair.  Ten years passes before he once more goes with her to the fair at Rhun.  There he is wined, drugged and rolled for his money.  When he goes after the thief, he encounters sex, betrayal, humiliation, and death.  He is also found by his dragon father.<br />In this volume, Draconas is trying to protect the boys from Grald and his accomplices, but is also trying to protect the dragons from any bad publicity.  Unfortunately, these goals seem to be mutually irreconcilable.  Moreover, his opponents have taken the initiative and he is only reacting to their ploys.  Draconas is becoming very frustrated.<br />The situation is looking very bleak at the end of this segment.  Can Ven avoid being dominated by his father?  Can Marcus withstand the charms of Evelina?  Is Draconas gone for good?<br />Recommended for Weis fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of adventure and suspense in a fantasy setting, but with a touch of contemporary cynicism.(...)	2004-07-03
609200:US	49390985	R84G8ZZ7IEDC1	0765303620	306611472	The Nameless Day: Book One of 'The Crucible'	Books	5	5	10	N	N	The End of All Things Is Nigh, Right?	The Nameless Day is the first novel in The Crucible series.  In an alternate timeline very much like our own, forty-five years after Clement V moved the Papacy to Avignon, Brother Wynkyn de Worde left his friary, Saint Angelo's in Rome, and traveled to Nuremberg as he had done twice a year for fifty-three years.  As the Select, it was his duty to open the Cleft in the woods and to throw the semiannual crop of abominations into the Fires of Hell.  Unfortunately, he has caught the Black Plague and it has sapped away his strength, so he fell into convulsions as he summoned the children to him.  They arrived just in time to see him die.<br />In this novel, seventy years after the Papacy moved to Avignon, Gregory IX returns to Rome, at least for a while.  The city goes wild and people dance in the streets.  That evening Brother Thomas Neville also enters Rome.  After being shown his cell in Saint Angelo's and paying his respects to the prior, Thomas leaves for Saint Peter's Basilica to pray before the altar there.  He is totally engrossed in his prayers when the Archangel Michael appears and informs him that he has been chosen as the Beloved of both the Lord God and the angels.<br />The Archangel Michael does not speak again to Brother Thomas for over a year.  Of course, Thomas has much to do to prepare himself for his role as the Beloved.  He spends much of his time at prayer, more than his fellows, as well as study.  On the afternoon of the Saturday following the Annunciation, Thomas is studying friary records in the library when the novice Daniel approachs him for advice concerning some information he has overheard.  Daniel had taken messages to the Secretary of the Curia when a Benedictine monk burst in and blurted out the news that the Pope was dead.  Thomas sends Daniel to the lower marketplace to spread the word that Gregory is dead. Thomas himself spreads the word in the main market square.  Just as the Curia is sitting down to vote on a new pope, the Roman mob bursts into the Hall of Conclave and threatens the Cardinals for their attempted betrayal of the people of Rome.  The Curia readily agrees to delay the selection of the new pope until after the official funeral.<br />While everybody is awaiting the Papal election, Thomas is tracing down an inconsistency in the friary registers.  One friar, Brother Wynkyn de Worde, left the friary twice a year, each time for eight weeks and had done so since 1295.  Thomas asks Prior Bertrand about the man and is chastised for his arrogance and is then assigned the daily penance of praying from Prime to Nones and of washing the feet of prostitutes in the streets around the marketplace after dinner until just before Vespers.  Brother Thomas has struck a nerve.<br />After the funeral, the fearful Cardinals elect Bartolomo Prignano, Archbishop of Bari, as the new Holy Father, Urban VI.  They give the mob an Italian, as was demanded.  Urban VI pledges never to take the Papacy from Rome again.  After several weeks, the Curia, still loyal to the French King, decides that he means it and a majority slip out of Rome to flee to Avignon, where they elect another pope.  The time of the two popes has begun.<br />Finally, Archangel Michael reappears to Thomas and informs him that he is the successor to Brother Wynkyn.  Thomas confronts Prior Bertrand once more and refuses to defer to superior authority, saying that he himself speaks with the voice of the Lord God and Archangel Michael.  He forces Bertrand to tell him everything about Brother Wynkyn.  After an abortive attempt at an interview with Pope Urban, Thomas follows Wynkyn's path to Nuremberg.<br />This story is exceedingly confusing, for plans are being implemented behind the scenes that only come into public view on a few occasions.  The abominables who escaped Brother Wynkyn are one of the  parties manipulating Thomas and the angels are another.  Thomas has been betrayed by his own order, for the Prior General of England, Richard Thorseby, believes him to be unstable.  Thomas IS obsessed by the death of a woman whom he had seduced, but denied when she was accused of adultery and subsequently put to death.  In fact, he is obsessed with all women, fearing that he will betray any that he loves.  He has been cursed by a prostitute to lose his heart to another such and greatly fears that this will actually happen.<br />The covert plotting is only hinted in this volume.  Supposedly the abominables are as beautiful as angels, but are not human.  The Church considers them imps of Satan, but there are signs that they might be the byblows of the angels themselves.  Brother Thomas is supposed to lead the hosts of God, but Jeanne D'Arc ends up commanding the armies, not Thomas.  This volume is engrossing, yet obscure and rambling.  Hopefully the second book will provide a few explanations.  Right!<br />Highly recommended for Douglass fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of characters out of history who live and think in a thoroughly authentic manner.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-06-30
609498:US	49390985	R8S2L1AMH8W43	0765310422	316359352	Scepters (Corean Chronicles, Book 3)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	The Final Confrontation	Scepters is the third novel in the Corean Chronicles, following Darknesses.  In the previous volume, Iron Valleys became a province of Lanachrona and the militia was transferred to Lanachronan control as the Northern Guard.  Alucius led four companies of the Northern Guard into Deforya to defend against invading Illegean nomads.  After defeating various human and nonhuman enemies -- including legendary yet real pteridons -- and barely surviving his experiences, Alucious was summoned to Tempre to meet the Lord Protector.  <br />Encountering an ifrit who had possessed the Recorder of Deeds, he was forced to flee through the Tables network and found his way to the hidden city of the Soarers.  There Alucius was taught much more about his Talents and then returned to the Table network to defeat two of the ifrits.  Afterwards, Alucius was finally allowed to return to Iron Valleys, was presented with his discharge papers, and, with only a small delay, set off for the family stead.  However, on the way he encountered an ambush obviously intended for him and just barely managed to kill all the assassins before they quite finished killing him.  After a minimal recovery time and with an escort of Northern Guard horse troopers, Alucius finally returned home to Wendra.<br />In this novel, Alucius and Wendra have been enjoying their time together.  However, the situation has gotten worse in the Iron Valleys and in Lanachrona;  prices are still rising and the war against the Matrites is not going well.  The Lord Protector has been forced to spread his forces too thinly in order to protect against a variety of threats while simultaneously prosecuting the Matrial war.  At the request of the Lord Protector, Alucius returns to duty as a Majer and leads an expedition of Northern and Southern Guard companies to put down a duarchist revolt in Hyalt.  After that mission, he is requested to lead a special operation against the Matrial crystal-spear throwers.<br />The Lord Protector is careful not to offend Alucius;  he appeals mostly to his sense of civic duties, but he also offers command of the Northern Guard to Alucius upon return from the mission, replacing Colonel Weslyn.  This combination leaves Alucious without an acceptable alternative and he rides out once more in command of the Fifth Northern Guard company and the Eighth Southern Guard company and with Feran as his second in command.  Later, he acquires another two companies of newly trained Southern Guards.  In Hyalt, he finds that someone is using Talent to produce total fanatics, so more than military action is required.  Afterwards, in Southgate, he spends more time defending himself against senior Lanachronan officers than fighting the Matrites.<br />In this story, Alucius is repeatedly attacked by Talent-beasts sent by the ifrits, who are using the Tables against him.  However, he begins to learn more about the ifrits themselves as well as the true history of Corus.  He also begins to learns how to use more that his own lifeforce, including the lifeforce of the world itself.<br />Alucius is truly becoming a lamaial, destined to be powerful enough to prevent the return of the duarchists as rulers over Corus.  As his powers grow, so does his responsibilities;  a goodly amount of the novel is devoted to the ethics of such power.  Of course, he also gets to travel more along the worldlines, enjoying encounters with new and more powerful enemies.<br />Highly recommended for Modesitt fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of magical powers and speculations on responsibilities and ethical restraints.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-06-30
616391:US	49390985	R1X3149B08QMW4	0765301679	411086011	Ringworld's Children	Books	5	8	17	N	N	Hot War in the Ringworld System	Ringworld's Children (2004) is the fourth novel in the Ringworld series, following [[ASIN:0345412966 The Ringworld Throne]]. In [[ASIN:0345333926 Ringworld]], Louis Wu had encountered a very large patch of sunflowers, but except for a minor incident that left Speaker to Animals hairless and charred, his party managed to hide from their reflected sunbeams during the day. In [[ASIN:0345334302 The Ringworld Engineers]], Louis had boiled a sea, providing enough time for the locals to weed out the mirrored plants, but also left a legacy of clouds that remained in the region.    In The Ringworld Throne, these clouds allowed the Shadow Nest vampires to greatly increase their hunting range and thus their food supply, resulting into a local population explosion of these predators. When Valavirgillin and the Farsight Trading company arrived in the region, they soon found themselves under attack by the vampires and the Machine People joined forces with various local hominids to attack the vampire lair. They gained access to the floating city and turned on the bottomside lighting system, thus driving the vampires out of their sheltered enclave and forcing them to scatter throughout the region.     Elsewhere in previous volume, Louis, Acolyte and the Hindmost were captured by a vampire protector, whom Louis named Bram. He and his mate Anne have gained control of the Meteor Defense room and now Bram has started using the meteor defense system to destroy ships from the various known space species. Louis lured the Ghoul Tunesmith into the tree-of-life garden, where he underwent the change to protector. Then Louis and his associates cooperated with these vampire protectors while they fought other vampire protectors for control of the rimwall. Anne was killed by the rimwall protectors and Bram was injured. When Bran returned from the rimwall, Tunesmith ambushed him and, with a timely diversion by Acolyte, overcame him.    In this novel, in 2893 AD, Louis Wu awakes under a coffin lidin the nanotech superdoc; he has been in the 'doc for 84 days and hasn't felt this good in two centuries. However, Tunesmith has been very busy while Louis was undergoing treatment. He has negotiated an agreement with the Spill Mountain protectors. He also has moved Hot Needle of Inquiry back under Olympus Mons, sliced it open, and removed various components. The superdoc is spread out on the cavern floor, as is the repaired hyperdrive (maybe Louis can go home afterall).    However, the Fringe War has heated up again. Warships from the ARM, Kzinti, Trinocs and other, unknown aliens abound within the system; even the Puppeteers and Outsiders have sent observers. Tunesmith has made plans to hijack the Long Shot, which is being used as a courier for the Kzinti. He has also made Hanging People protectors and is using them to pilot probes against his opponents. He sends Probe One out to agitate the Patriarchy command ship Diplomat, which is trying to link with the Long Shot. The probe thwarts the rendezvous, but is destroyed by an anti-matter bullet.     Tunesmith has made some changes to the hyperdrives and can use them in near space. First he fires Probe Two out of the linear accelerator launcher and then sends Hot Needle of Inquiry immediately after it. Probe Two acts both as a decoy and a test vehicle for the new hyperdrive. It jinks and curves and then disappears ... but returns a quarter million miles ahead. Then the ARM and Patriarchy notice the Needle and soon beams and missiles begin to converge on them. The Needle goes into hyperdrive and gains a quarter million miles on the targeting systems.    The Needle avoids the warships as it travels out to the periphery of the system, where it takes a hyperspace jump back to the other side only ten light-minutes from the Long Shot. Approaching the rendezvous point, a pulse of the hyperdrive bypasses two guard ships and the Needle dives on the Long Shot as it attaches to the Diplomat. It touches sides with the Long Shotand a \\"glue\\" stuff causes the Needle to adhere to the other ship; the Needle then accelerates at ten gravities, tearing the Long Shot away from the Diplomat. Tunesmith, Acolyte and Louis storm aboard the Long Shot, but the fight is over before Louis can reach the other cabin.    In this story, Tunesmith discovers something new about hyperspace: it is populated with living creatures, including ship-eating predators. Thus, hyperspace can be used within a gravity well as long as the ship returns to normalspace quickly. He now plans to learn even more about the quantized velocity of hyperspace using the Long Shot. Meanwhile, the Needle aerobrakes through the sun and returns to Ringworld, where it dives through an eye storm into the sea, out one meteor hole, and into another, and then hides beneath the sea.    Two ARM craft follow the Needle in the eye storm, but lose it under the sea. They are attacked by two other ships and an ARM craft disappears within an anti-matter explosion. The blast blows a wide hole in the sea, sucking out the remains of the eye storm into space. Tunesmith deploys his experimental meteor patch to the new hole and sends Louis to observe.    The other ARM craft lands on the ring and Louis joins them while pretending to be \\"Luis\\", a young Ringworld resident. The Hanging People protector who piloted Probe Two, Hanuman, pretends to be Luis' pet and also accompanies the ARM party. Later, Wembleth, a native of indeterminate species, travels with the group, as does Proserphina, one of the oldest protectors on Ringworld, who has been exiled to the Isolation Zone for millennia while her descendants have been running free on the Map of Earth.    This story is too short and abrupt -- it is less than 300 pages long -- and there is plenty of space for clarification and follow throughs, but it still provides some interesting new concepts and scenery. All the protectors seem to have consented to follow Tunesmith as the Master Protector. Of course, Tunesmith doesn't give many clues as to his plans, but you can take for granted that they are BIG; everything on the Ringworld is oversized, after all, and only BIG plans have any chance of saving the ring from the careless hands of the anti-matter wielders.    Recommended for Niven fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of strange sentients in an even stranger environment.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-06-24
622954:US	49390985	RZE5CEUTEP18P	0441011586	893478005	Absolution Gap	Books	5	6	15	N	N	The Vanishing Planet	Absolution Gap is the fourth novel in the Revelation Space series, following Redemption Ark.  In the previous novel, the Inhibitors found the colony on Resurgam and, since the previous sterilization had been incomplete, the machines started penetrating the star so as to produce a jet of plasma to sterilize the planets.  Ilia Volyova and Ana Khouri forced the planetary populace to evacuate to the Nostalgia for Infinity.  When Clavain first arrived in the Zodiacal Light, he demanded the cache weapons, but Ilia refused to hand them over.  Clavain then launched an attack, but Volyova used one of the cache weapons to break the Zodiacal Light in two.  <br />Clavain surrendered and began assisting in the evacuation.  When Volyova died from radiation and wounds, Clavain led the evacuees in the Nostalgia for Infinity to a nearby double star, p Eridani A.  On the way out of the system, the evacuees are attacked by Skade's ships;  they received only slight damage to the Nostalgia, but destroyed one of her ships and damaged the other two.<br />After the refugees fled, the Zodiacal Light repaired itself in the Resurgam system.  During the  wait on the repairs, Khouri and Thorn reestablished contact with Dan Sylveste and friends within Hades, the neutron star and supercomputer.  When Khouri became pregnant, Sylveste and company stored the blueprints and instructions for various hyperweapons within the brain of the unborn baby.  After Remontoire provided conjoiner implants within the brains of mother and baby, the unborn was able to communicate to some degree with her mother and pass on hints that led to a series of more powerful weapons.<br />In this novel, in 2615, near 107 Piscium, Horris Quaiche has not delivered on his promises, so Queen Jasmina of the lighthugger Gnostic Ascension puts his girlfriend, Morwenna, in the scrimshaw suit, welds it shut, and installs it on the tender Dominatrix.  Then he is put aboard and they enter the system, where Quaiche discovers a fairy-likebridge on the moon Hela.  Afraid that the artifact might be defended, he sends the Dominatrix with Morwenna aboard to the other side of the moon's primary, the gas giant Haldora, and goes down himself in the better armored and more nimble Scavanger's Daughter.  Unfortunately, the bridge is well defended and the Scavenger's Daughter crashes on the rocks and ice.<br />In 2675, on Arafat, twenty-three years after the refugees have landed, Scorpio and a young Security Arm, Vasko, go to retrieve Clavain from his retreat on an outer island.  Something has slipped down from orbit and the elders want Clavain to probe it with his Conjoiner implants.  They wonder if it is Skade or even Remontoire, but instead it is Ana Khouri.  When the Zodiacal Light arrived insystem, Skade sent a peace delegation to discuss a truce against the Inhibitors, but this was just a ruse, for they ripped the baby out of Khouri's womb and took it back to Skade, who promptly implanted it in her own uterus.  Then Skade's ship was forced down on the surface of Arafat by the Inhibitors.  Khouri needs Clavian and his crew to rescue her daughter from Skade.<br />In 2727, on Hela, Rashmika Els leaves home to catch a caravan to the Permanent Way, where the cathedrals travel constantly underneath the looming Haldora, waiting for the planet to vanish once more.  Rashmika intends to ask what happened to her brother after he joined the First Adventist Cathedral.  Moreover, if she can make the right contacts, she would also like bring to the attention of the scuttler artifacts committees some of her ideas on the scuttler extinction.<br />This volume is the last in the series, but the pace never slows down.  Despite a finale in which all the dangling ends are tied off, the epilogue raises new questions.  Maybe there will be another series taking off where this one ends.   In any case, the author is certainly imitating real life, for every ending is also a new beginning.<br />Highly recommended for Reynolds fansand for anyone else who enjoys tales of high tech adventures in a relativistic universe.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-06-19
629699:US	49390985	R39DDJ4PKRDKGZ	0671450336	871853941	The Fires of Paratime	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The Time Meddlers	The Fires of Paratime (1982) is the original novel in the Paratime set.  A much expanded version of this novel became the second volume in the Timegod duology.    In this novel, Loki is born into a world of virtual immortals.  Most of them have some inherent ability to timedive; that is, to travel through time and space without external assistance.  Long ago, their society was disrupted by the Frost Giants -- energy eaters who can timedive -- and the technological and manufacturing infrastructure was mostly destroyed.  Now the Temporal Guard supplies the population with high tech items bought or stolen from other societies throughout time and space, but fewer and fewer Guard personnel have the abilities needed to maintain this equipment.      Despite efforts by his parents to make him aware of the deficiencies of the organization, Loki follows in his grandfather's footsteps and joins the Temporal Guard.  He goes through years of training and gains a reputation as a heavy hitter, with very strong abilities.  He is used to transport the more massive items over greater distances in space and time.    Eventually Loki finds a permanent position in maintenance.  There he learns patience, foresight and technique from Baldur.  He also becomes friends with Sammis and Wryan, learning a lot about unarmed and armed combat.  However, he has a enemy in Heimdall, who tries to kill him, but is outfoxed and injured by his own boobytrap.  After this incident, the Tribunes send Loki to Hell while Heimdall recovers in the Infirmary, but Loki's equipment is sabotaged by Heimdall's confederates and he almost dies.  The lackeys are given chronolobotomies and discharged from the Guard, but Heimdall is not punished.    When Loki recovers from his stint in Hell, he becomes less impulsive and more paranoid.  After all, Heimdall is really out to get him.  However, the Tribunes protect him to a great extent because he keeps successfully performing impossible assignments that most Guards can't handle.  Then the Temporal Guard encounters the sharks.    Gradually Loki begins to comprehend the defects and injustices within the system.  He is beginning to get a reputation as the premier timediver, even though he is relatively junior.  Some people try to use him as the figurehead for a movement to change the Guard.    This novels depicts the rise and fall of a culture that basically becomes parasitic on other societies within reach of its timedivers.  Unlike Piper's Paratime culture, the Queryans are not traders, but scavengers.  As with Piper's series, the Queryans begin to obsess over the Paratime secret, even modifying other societies to eliminate all effective knowledge of the nature of time.    Highly recommended for Modesitt fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of young people struggling to understand their society and their own abilities while trying to do the right thing.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-06-14
631325:US	49390985	R11Y4M8078L2SR	0451459768	841600992	Red Slippers: More Tales of Mithgar	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Questions Resolved and Raised	Red Slippers is the fifteenth volume in the Mithgar series.  Although it is a collection of twelve tales, most contain more than one yarn shared among the crew and friends of the elvenship Eroean as they sit before the hearth in the common room of the Red Slipper.  Little action other than drinking, laughing and fighting occur in these tales, but the yarns themselves tell of death, destruction and defeat as well as courage, determination and triumph.    Seventeen millennia afore, the First Era began with the crowning of Awain as the High King of Mithgar, the realm formed by the merger of Pellar, Jugo, Hoven, Valon, both Riamonds, and Garia.  Much has happened in the intervening years, some known to all, some known only to a few, and much known only to the gods.  These tales reveal something of those little known occurrences, yet raise other questions which hopefully will be answered in future works.    In this collection, the Eroean sails in Port Arbalin after a long and dangerous voyage to the long-dead Lost City of Jade.  Since some of the crew were lost during the adventure, the remainder will have a long layover while replacements for the slain Drimma are recruited.  Thus many of the crew are staying at the Red Slipper rather than onboard.    After toasting absent friends, the crew start telling tales.  First is the myth of Gelvin's Doom as told by Noddy, but Aravan can't help thinking of the real events as found in Gelvin's diary and the evidence of his corpse.  Then Aravan tells of events which happened at a well in the desert, involving a giant black worm-like bloodsucking creature.  Afterwards they talk about tokens of great power and a confrontation between Modru and the Elven smith Dwynfor.    As these yarns are told, Pipper and Bington and Aylissa and Wooly and the others interrupt with questions and comments and sometimes the conversation goes off on a tangent with another story before returning to the original yarn.  Vex the fox wanders out and comes back with a great fat brown wharf rat as a present for Fat Jim.  Some crewmembers drink too much Vornholt ale, fall flat on their faces, are carried off to bed, and have a terrible hangover the next morning.  After a while, four more friends -- Urus, Ritha, Bair, and Jaith -- sail into port on their way back to report on their mission to destroy the Black Throne of Hadron's Hall and they add a few yarns of their own.    In case you didn't notice, this work is set in a bordello and has all the rowdy, lusty ambiance one would expect.  However, do not expect tidy little packets of fiction with clear-cut beginnings and endings, for these stories actually intertwine among themselves as well as with all that has gone before.  Imagine yourself before a fire in the company of boisterous friends and with a tankard in your hand, ready to discuss the entire history of the world with some of those who helped make it!    Highly recommended for McKiernan fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales in the Tolkien tradition.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-06-13
633067:US	49390985	R3CRMAVETSEHGY	0812545869	125667859	Dawn for a Distant Earth	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Laying the Foundation	Dawn for a Distant Earth (1987) is the first novel in The Forever Hero trilogy.  Sometime in the distant future, Earth has achieved the stars and colonized many planets.  However, the home world continued to suffer from ecological problems caused by wars and pollution.  When the ecollapse finally occurred, Earth became a hellhole of poisoned land and sea, savage weather, and toxic ground fogs.  The population dropped from billions to a few thousands.    The Earth colonies formed a Federation and later an Empire and somehow lost contact with Earth.  After countless years, an Imperial scout rediscovered the planet and the ISS Torquina was sent to survey the world.  They found a wasteland of scattered ruins, mostly uninhabited and almost uninhabitable.  The remaining animals were generally inedible due to toxin levels, as were many plants.    In this novel, the Torquina finds two populations on the planet:  shambletowners and devilkids.  The shambletowners live in squalid homes behind guarded walls and raise relatively uncontaminated food in trays.  The devilkids, however, live in separate family groups, widely scattered in hidden nooks among the ruins, and gather their food from the poisoned land.  Both groups are the prey of coyotes and rat packs.    The Torquina crew captures an injured devilkid and tests his abilities.  He is extremely strong with a high intelligence and a blinding fast reaction time.  The boy takes the name MacGregor Corson Gershwin and is educated as an Imperial, becoming an ISS officer and pilot.  He returns to Old Earth as a flitter pilot supporting the scientists studying the ravaged world.    In this story, Gershwin gradually develops a dedication to restoring Old Earth to her former glory.  He recruits other devilkids, sending them to be educated in the Empire, and uses them as the nucleus of his organization on Old Earth.  Since he is Earthborn, the Empire rejects his requests for transfer to another assignment.  Thus, with his longevity, he eventually becomes the commander of Old Earth Base.  However, Imperial support for the reclamation effort has dwindled over the decades and Old Earth is having difficulties in getting mission related supplies and equipment.    While Gershwin was awaiting transport to his assignment on Old Earth, he shared one night of love with Caroljoy.  They each remembered that night for the rest of their lives.  Although Gershwin doesn't know for years, Caroljoy became pregnant with his child.  She was married to a Duke, who cherished both her and the child, but she still remembered her Lieutenant.    This novel introduces the myth of the Captain, the prophet who preaches the rebirth of Old Earth and the leader who establishes the effort to banish the deadlands and to bring back the cool, green grass and trees to Old Earth.  Nothing stops him, for he is destined to bring Old Earth back to life again.  Even the Empire is reluctant to interfere with his destiny.    Highly recommended for Modesitt fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of individual daring and dedicated perseverance with a touch of romance.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-06-11
633162:US	49390985	R2LXBCOID8X1X6	0312868383	57273906	The Forever Hero: Dawn for a Distant Earth, The Silent Warrior, In Endless Twilight	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Restoring the Green Hills of Earth	The Forever Hero (1988) is an omnibus edition of this trilogy.  It includes Dawn for a Distant Earth, The Silent Warrior, and In Endless Twilight.    Sometime in the distant future, Earth has achieved the stars and colonized many planets.  However, the home world continued to suffer from ecological problems caused by wars and pollution.  When the ecollapse finally occurred, Earth became a hellhole of poisoned land and sea, savage weather, and toxic ground fogs.  The population dropped from billions to a few thousands.    The Earth colonies formed a Federation and later an Empire and somehow lost contact with Earth.  After countless years, an Imperial scout rediscovered the planet and the ISS Torquina was sent to survey the world.  They found a wasteland of scattered ruins, mostly uninhabited and almost uninhabitable.  The remaining animals were generally inedible due to toxin levels, as were many plants.    In Dawn for a Distant Earth (1987), the Torquina finds two populations on the planet:  shambletowners and devilkids.  The Torquina crew captures an injured devilkid and tests his abilities.  He is extremely strong with a high intelligence and a blinding fast reaction time.  The boy takes the name MacGregor Corson Gershwin and is educated as an Imperial, becoming an ISS officer and pilot.  He returns to Old Earth as a flitter pilot supporting the scientists studying the ravaged world.    In The Silent Warrior (1987), Gershwin turns down the opportunity to become Commandant of the new Recorps and instead leaves Old Earth to take command of an underpowered and overtasked cruiser, the Fleurdilis, to make initial contact with a previously unknown alien species.  Later, he is assigned as the Commander of an underutilized and obsolescent refitting center and salvage yard.  He marries Allison and they have a son, Corson.  Gershwin also becomes active as the trustee of the OER Foundation founded by Caroljoy, his first lover.    In the third novel, In Endless Twilight (1988), Gershwin contributes to a revolution on Byzania to protect his house trees project.  The success of that mission leads him to concentrate on psywar, preparing the populace for a radical change of viewpoint.  The Empire finally decides to eliminate Gershwin, but they can't find him.  However, they do move against the OER Foundation.    This trilogy may be prequels to the Ecolitan Matter series.  Many of the planet names are the same, the governmental institutions are similar, and the technology is comparable.  However, the connection, if any, is never made clear.    One of the inconsistancies is the Imperial capital.  In this trilogy, New Augusta is a planet, whereas in the Ecolitan series New Augusta is a city on Terra.  Since this trilogy ends with the planet New Augusta left unprotected from outsystem raiders, maybe the Imperial refugees fled to the newly reclaimed Old Earth and established a new capital city named for the old capital planet.    Another puzzlement is the succession of political hegemonies.  After the ecollapse of Old Earth, the colonies formed a Federation and later an Empire.  Moreover, there was apparently a Directorate on Old Earth in the interregnum after the collapse caused by Gershwin's disruptions.  There are some indications that the Empire of the Ecolitan series, also based on Terra, was formed after the fall of the Directorate.    The colonists who settled Accord were from the Noram region of Old Earth.  Possibly these colonists were descendents of the shambletowners and devilkids, maybe mixed with an influx of refugees from the Old Empire.  Moreover, the New Empire may have been established by the spiritual (and genetic) heirs of the Captain on Terra, later incorporating survivors on the former planets of the Old Empire.    One final note:  if this novel reminded you of Battlefield Earth, it may not be a coincidence.  Hubbard's novel was published only five years prior to the first novel in this series.  Possibly Modesitt felt thathe could write a more realistic version of that classic scenario.    Highly recommended for Modesitt fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of individual daring, dedicated perseverance, political and commercial intrigue, and personal combat with a touch of romance.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-06-11
633424:US	49390985	RZTCW79I9JSXB	0812545842	188620582	The Ecologic Envoy (Ecolitan Matter)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Bull in a China Shop	The Ecologic Envoy (1986) is the third novel in The Ecolitan Matter series according to the internal chronology, following The Ecolitan Secession.  In the previous volume, Ecolitan Professor James Joyson Whaler II led the Ecolitan Institute in a successful war of secession against the Empire.  Other systems beyond the Parthanian Rift and elsewhere also declared their independence at that time.    Four centuries have passed since the Secession.  Terra still bears the scars of ecological damage and the small planetary population seldom leaves the underground warrens.  However, the Empire has otherwise recovered from the war and the Imperial navy has grown even stronger.  Now the Empire has mostly assumed that Accord is no longer a major force in the galaxy and has started taking action to recover its former territory beyond the Rift, first subduing Haversol and then asking for tariff revisions in the trade with Accord.    In this novel, Ecolitan Professor Nathaniel Firstborne Whaler is appointed as Trade Envoy and sent to New Augusta.  Shortly after his arrival, as he and his Imperial escort approach the Accord Legation in the Diplomat Tower, someone fires a splinter gun at him.  The assassin misses, but escapes his pursuers.    While several Imperial marines chase the assassin, Whaler presents his credentials to the staffer at the desk and is taken to meet the other workers.  Only three of the legation personnel -- the Legate, his Deputy and the Information Specialist -- are Accordan natives;  the others are provided by the Empire itself.  Witherspoon, the Legate, has been called home for consultation, so Whaler will be the senior official in the legation.    Later Whaler presents his credentials to the Emperor and then attempts to deliver the official Accordan response to the Imperial tariff proposals.  He receives a cordial, but inconclusive welcome at the Ministry of Commerce, but the External Affairs Minister is never available when he calls.  He does have an interesting luncheon meeting with a member of Senator Helmsworth's staff and they exchange a few truths.    His first realization of the differences between Accord and the Imperial capital concerns the power of the Special Assistants in the bureaucracy, all of whom are women.  While the nominal heads of all ministries are noblemen, they are only figureheads for the women who actually run these organizations.  In fact, the Imperials are befuddled when Whaler doesn't bring a Special Assistant with him to the talks.    Whaler also learns that the Grand Admiral of the Imperial navy does not want the trade talks to proceed.  She has ordered his assassination so that such talks might be deferred indefinitely.  The initial assassination attempt is soon followed by others with varying levels of subtleness.  Whaler plays the buffon while circumventing each attack and continuing to shake up the higher levels of Imperial bureaucracy.    In this story, Accord cannot appear to be unwilling to negotiate with the Empire, for the Haversol takeover was partially blamed on stalled trade talks.  Of course, the death of the envoy could be considered a stalling tactic by the Impies.  And it doesn't help at all that one or more of the legation staffers are actively helping the assassins.    Moreover, Whaler is working against a negative media stereotype of Accordans and especially of Ecolitans.  The Imperial populace has long considered the ecological attack on Terra during the Accordan Secession to be particularly infamous.  Accordans are still portrayed as evil villains in modern stories as well as historical dramas.  Somehow he has to gain the sympathy of the common people.    The story features a protagonist who is simultaneously a scholar and a warrior, an exemplar of the Ecolitan tradition.  Whaler has plenty of opportunity to display his close combat skills, yet the story is more of a mystery than a suspense thriller.  His mission is further complicated when he becomes attracted toward Sylvia Ferro-Maine, a former Imperial Intelligence agent.     Highly recommended for Modesitt fans and for anyone who enjoys tales of political maneuvering and personal combat with a touch of romance.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-06-11
633491:US	49390985	R1XSO9YICTY8FL	0812545885	712110173	The Silent Warrior: The Forever Hero, Volume 2	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Forging the Tools	The Silent Warrior is the second novel in The Forever Hero trilogy, following Dawn for a Distant Earth.  In the previous volume, Gershwin and his compatriots liberate a shipload of arcdozers for the reclamation effort.  When they return the (mostly) unhurt crew of the stolen ship, the Empire quickly determines the perpetuators of the hijacking and move in force on Old Earth.  The Court of Inquiry soon establishes guilt, but is reluctant to publicize the crime.  They recommend leaving the arcdozers in place and transferring the current garrison to the newly formed Imperial Reclamation and Restoration Corps.<br />In this novel, Gershwin turns down the opportunity to become Commandant of the new Recorps and instead leaves Old Earth to take command of an underpowered and overtasked cruiser, the Fleurdilis, to make initial contact with a previously unknown alien species.  Despite a xenophobic executive officer and an ignorance of native customs, Gershwin establishes friendly relations with the aliens, who he names Ursans, and smoothes their further contacts with the Empire.  He and his crew are commended for their performance.<br />After fifteen years on the fringes, Gershwin requests a change of duty to Maintenance in an outbase station.  He is assigned as the Commander of an underutilized and obsolescent refitting center and salvage yard.  Naturally, he starts turning it into a Galactic class refit station.  He marries Allison and they have a son, Corson.<br />Gershwin also becomes active as the trustee of the OER Foundation founded by Caroljoy, his first lover.  He steers the research grants toward less conventional biological technology.  Later, he starts forming small commercial companies to market the new biological products.<br />When the Guild tries to assassinate Gershwin, he determines to destroy the organization.  With the assistance of Lyr, the Administrator of the OER Foundation, and some new companies, Gershwin tracks the movements of the Guild leadership.Then he starts to terminate them using their own methods.<br />Highly recommended for Modesitt fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of individual daring, dedicated perseverance, and commercial intrigue with a touch of romance.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-06-11
633794:US	49390985	RMQKCY2FN9QO4	0812520009	942643770	In Endless Twilight: The Forever Hero, Volume 3	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Protecting the Planet	In Endless Twilight is the third novel in The Forever Hero trilogy, following The Silent Warrior.  In the previous volume, Gershwin rebuilds a scrapped Federation scoutship into a yacht, liberates a cruiser pack of nuclear weapons, and retires from the ISS as a Commodore.  He interrupts a conclave of the top Guild officials with a tachead and leaves only a scattering of individual assassins, whom the Empire removes.  He also overthrows a local government that has been interfering in one of his special corporations.<br />In this novel, Gershwin contributes to a revolution on Byzania to protect his house trees project.  The success of that mission leads him to concentrate on psywar, preparing the populace for a radical change of viewpoint.  He backs alternate technology and libertarian publications, solicits relevant papers from outspoken intellectuals, and promotes political movements which advocate more social freedom.  He finds that some societies have a serf mentality, incapable of desiring freedom.<br />The Empire finally decides to eliminate Gershwin, but they can't find him.  Three Imperial squadrons are dedicated to searching for him but have little success.  However, they do move against the OER Foundation.<br />Eventually Gershwin returns to Old Earth, infiltrating through an Imperial squadron, and lands his scoutship for the last time.  He starts wandering the continents, giving summary justice to malefactors and encouraging personal freedoms.  He builds a small cabin in the green woods and settles in for the centuries.<br />Highly recommended for Modesitt fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of political subversion, complicated scheming, and personal combat.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-06-11
633827:US	49390985	R24R4WCUPI7UZS	0765308983	285421004	Ecolitan Prime: Two complete novels of the Galactic Empire: The Ecologic Envoy and The Ecolitan Enigma (Ecolitan Matter)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The Economics of Empire	Ecolitan Prime is an omnibus edition of the third and fourth novels in The Ecolitan Matter series according to the internal chronology.  It includes The Ecologic Envoy and The Ecolitan Enigma.<br />Four centuries have passed since the Accordan Secession.  Terra still bears the scars of ecological damage and the small planetary population seldom leaves the underground warrens.  However, the Empire has otherwise recovered from the war and the Imperial navy has grown even stronger.  Now the Empire has mostly assumed that Accord is no longer a major force in the galaxy and has started taking action to recover its former territory beyond the Rift, first subduing Haversol and then asking for tariff revisions in the trade with Accord.<br />In The Ecologic Envoy (1986), Ecolitan Professor Nathaniel Firstborne Whaler is appointed as Trade Envoy and sent to New Augusta.  There he survives several assassination attempts and cordial, but frustrating discussions with Imperial bureaucrats.  Then he has an interesting luncheon meeting with Sylvia Ferro-Maine, a former Imperial Intelligence agent and currently a member of Senator Helmsworth's staff, and they exchange a few truths.<br />In The Ecolitan Enigma (1997),  Whaler returns to Accord in the company of Sylvia Ferro-Maine, who is promptly admitted as a Professor at the Ecolitan Institute.  Shortly thereafter, the Institute is asked to conduct a study of the infrastructure economics of Artos, one of the New Avalon colony planets.  The request seems strange, but the Institute has reasons of its own to allow the study.  Whaler and Sylvia travel to Artos.  After several so-called accidents, the Ecolitans begin to see a pattern in the local economy that indicates civil war.  Meanwhile, the Empire is suffering from some form of ecological warfare and is close to going to war with Accord.<br />These stories involve Whaler and Sylvia in interstellar intrigue both within and without the boundaries of the Empire.  Whaler and, in the latter novel, Sylvia are the center of numerous violent attacks.  Whaler and Sylvia avoid major injury and death only by a combination of skill and luck.<br />In their spare time, Whaler and Sylvia discuss their personal conflicts and work out means of blending their solitary lives into a partnership.  Whaler has a tendency to take charge of situations, but Sylvia has a better feel for relationships.  Both must contribute if they are to solve these political dilemmas.<br />Highly recommended for Modesitt fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of political chicanery,  military maneuvering, and public investigations together with a budding romance.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-06-11
633981:US	49390985	R1NXA0DGJAN9ZZ	0812571177	564479879	The Ecolitan Enigma (Ecolitan Matter)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Study in Economics	The Ecolitan Enigma is the fourth novel in The Ecolitan Matter series according to the internal chronology, following The Ecologic Envoy.  In the previous volume, Ecolitan Professor Nathaniel Firstborne Whaler negotiated a revised (and very favorable) tariff schedule with the Empire while avoiding assassination or impersonation.  He also arranged for Sylvia Ferro-Maine, a former Imperial Intelligence agent, to accompany him back to Accord.<br />In this novel, shortly thereafter, the Ecolitan Institute is asked by the Coordinate government to accede to a request by New Avalon for an infrastructure economics study of Artos, one of their colony planets.  The politicians strongly urge that Whaler should head the study.  The request seems strange, but the Institute has reasons of its own to allow the study.  Sylvia, now a Professor at the Ecolitan Institute, accompanies Whaler to Artos.  <br />On Artos, they are met by Robert Walkerson, the Port Chief, and driven toward their temporary housing.  However, a fuel leak results in a small explosion, killing the driver and destroying the car.  Whaler, Sylvia and Walkerson catch a ride to the Guest House on the shuttle bus and Walkerson reports the incident while Whaler and Sylvia freshen up.<br />The next morning, Walkerson assigns another car and driver for their use and the Ecolitans start visiting facilities and local magnates.  Whaler and Sylvia meet various local personages at a small reception held in the Blue Lion Inn. They also count utility poles, examine road beds and examine piers.  However, they meet some animosity in the latter pursuit.<br />Meanwhile, the Empire is having food problems.  The snyde bean crop is being devasted by some sort of disease and the anchovy harvest is also suffering.  As these food staples are dying, people are beginning to starve;  although the Imperial fleets try to ship in food, they cannot transport sufficient foodstuffs to met the need.  Millions are dying on Herculon and the ecological disaster is spreading to other planets.<br />The Imperial populace is convinced that the Accordans are causing these disasters.  The Imperial Senate, ever responsive to the desires of the populace, are ordering the Imperial navy to attack Accord.  The Grand Admiral is confirming her orders and proceeding with all deliberate haste.<br />This story involves Whaler and Sylvia in another interstellar intrigue that goes beyond the boundaries of the Empire.  Once again Whaler is the center of violent attacks, mostly disguised as industrial accidents.  Whaler and Sylvia avoid major injury and death only by a combination of skill and luck.  They are determined to finish the study, but will their efforts be enough to avert interstellar war?<br />In their spare time, Whaler and Sylvia discuss their personal conflicts and work out means of blending their solitary lives into a partnership.  Whaler has a tendency to take charge of situations, but Sylvia has a better feel for relationships.  Both must contribute if they are to solve this political dilemma.<br />Highly recommended for Modesitt fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of political chicanery and public investigation together with a blooming romance.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-06-11
636596:US	49390985	RMRUV27XE8QCR	0812503481	126333085	The Ecologic Secession	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The Making of an Ecolitan	The Ecologic Secession is the second novel in The Ecolitan Matter series according to the internal chronology, following The Ecolitan Operation.  In the previous volume, Major Jimjoy Earle Wright III was assigned to New Kansaw to neutralize a group of rebels.  On the way, he discovered that his courier ship has been sabotaged and provided a little instruction in creative paranoia to the skeptical ship commander.<br />On Kansaw, Jimjoy avoided another attempted assassination, found the rebel hideout, discovered that the Imperial marines had got there first, and rescued two rebels from torture.  He then stole a flitter and infiltrated Missou Base, set the base self-destruct sequence, stole the emergency shuttle, and escaped off-planet.  In orbit, he badly damaged the orbital station, stole a courier ship, and escaped out-system.  In the Accord system, he evaded detection by the orbital station and convinced an Ecolitan station on the moon to rescue the rebels and himself from the powerless ship.  Although exhausted after over eighty hours of sleep deprivation, Jimjoy had once again beat the odds.<br />In this novel, Jimjoy is now Ecolitan Professor James Joyson Whaler II, Senior Fellow of the Institute, with an extensive body makeover.  The Empire believes that he is dead and hopefully they will continue to do so.  Jimjoy has created a new department within the Institute -- Applied Ecologic Management -- which is actually the new Special Operations branch.  It is clear to Jimjoy and to the Ecolitan Prime that the Empire will be imposing more stringent controls on Accord and that the planet must rebel to keep its liberty.  As a first step, Jimjoy single-handedly destroys the System Control station at Haversol.<br />After this operation, Jimjoy begins implementation of further steps to secure complete autonomy for Accord.  His major problem is the attitude of his fellow Ecolitans.  The Ecolitan Prime has been assassinated by Imperial agents and his replacement is a weakprocrastinator.  However, Jimjoy bypasses the Prime and works with Ecolitan Thelina Andruz and her roommate, Ecolitan Meryl Laubron, to recruit and train a force of special operatives.<br />The Institute already has a security branch in its Field Training department.  There students receive training in armed and unarmed combat, field surveillance, and other security related subjects.  Now Jimjoy is adding methods of entry, computer penetration, demolition, and other special ops methods.  Moreover, his students are helping to build needle boats in the moon station and other Ecolitans are developing ecological weapons elsewhere off-planet.<br />Despite his distaste for politics, Jimjoy is chosen to announce the Institute's plans to the Accordan politicians.  Among these plans are the ejection of the Imperial governor, the wholesale resignation of the current council, and elections for a new council with systemwide jurisdiction.  Nevertheless, Jimjoy makes it clear that the Institute will not allow the new council to sellout the populace.<br />Jimjoy was born on White Mountain in the Hampshire system, a matriarchal society.  He enlisted in the Imperial Marines at an early age to escape the strains of his family.  He was a borderline sociopath during his days as an Imperial Special Operative.<br />One of the conditions for acceptance into the Institute is psychotherapy to work out his anger and distrust of women.  He has a complex relationship with Thelina, a former Hand of the Matriarchy (the equivalent of an Imperial Special Operative), who has unresolved anger and distrust of men.  When the two come together, sparks fly.  Although Thelina comes to love him, she knows that his love for her is based only on superficial impressions and she expends a great deal of energy showing him how to know and trust those he loves.<br />While Jimjoy is a bundle of repressed angers, in other ways he is much like the other male protagonists created by the author.  The interpersonal dynamics of love is a common theme in most works by this author, with the female characters usually much more aware of the situation than the males.  In one respect, the male-female relationship is less complex in this novel since both protagonists come from matriarchal cultures, but the very egalitarian social background of the Institute tends to muddle the situation.<br />Highly recommended for Modesitt fans and for anyone who enjoys tales of political intrigue and special operations with a touch of romance.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-06-09
636672:US	49390985	R34SWRRWQOVBIM	0312878796	600371582	Empire and Ecolitan: Two Complete Novels of the Galactic Empire: The Ecolitan Operation and The Ecologic Secession	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A Hero Gone Rogue	Empire & Ecolitan (2001) is an omnibus edition of the first and second novels in The Ecolitan Matter series according to the internal chronology.  It includes The Ecolitan Operation and The Ecologic Secession.    The United Confederation of Independent Worlds -- otherwise known as the Empire -- is an hegemony of over 190 worlds plus their colonies and other dependencies.  The capital of the Empire is at New Augusta on Terra, although many support functions are based off-planet, particularly on Alphane.     The Emperor is the titular head of the United Confederation, but most power resides in the Senate.  The Empire nominally includes about fifty semi-autonomous planets on the fringes.  The largest principality in this region is the Conglomerate of Fuard, which is aggressively flaunting its military might.    The Empire has long ago ceased to work for the welfare of its member planets, but instead has strived for maintenance of the status quo and perpetuation of the institutions of the Empire itself.  The dependent worlds have been hit the hardest with increased taxes and conscripted troops. Armed rebellions have occurred sporadically throughout the colonies.    In The Ecolitan Operation (1989), Major Jimjoy Earle Wright III is a Special Operative for the Imperial Space Service who manages to successfully complete the most difficult missions, but who displeases his superiors with the intemperate violence of his methods.   They would prefer something more subtle, but Jimjoy does whatever must be done to achieve the objective.  In his current mission, he causes a fusion plant explosion to kill off the Halstani High Command, but has a collateral kill count of over fifty thousand bystanders.  His case officer sends him next to Accord to report on the Ecolitan Institute, but the Empire has a lethal surprise waiting for him on the planet.    In The Ecologic Seccession (1990), Jimjoy is now Ecolitan Professor James Joyson Whaler II, Senior Fellow of the Institute.  The Empire believes that he is dead and hopefully they will continue to do so.  Jimjoy has created a new department within the Institute -- Applied Ecologic Management -- which is actually the new Special Operations branch.  It is clear to Jimjoy and to the Ecolitan Prime that the Empire will soon be imposing more stringent controls on Accord and that the planet must rebel to keep its liberty.  As a first step, Jimjoy single-handedly destroys the System Control station at Haversol.    These novels are mostly about the ethics of violence, personal and social.  All ethics are contingent upon survival;  i.e., survival of yourself or your descendants or your group is a prime concern.  However, certain methods of survival are wrong, for they destroy they very things you wish to preserve.  These novels explore the ethical limits of defense of a society -- that is, a large group of people -- which is threatened by external forces.  What types and degrees of violence are legitimate under those circumstances?  Are civilians legitimate targets of violence and, if so, under what conditions?  The author raises some interesting questions, but more importantly, he points out the uncertainties surrounding all such issues.    Highly recommended for Modesitt fans and for anyone who enjoys tales of political intrigue and special operations with a touch of romance.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-06-09
637707:US	49390985	R25XE4W8QHBEBY	0812545826	626917579	The Ecolitan Operation (Ecolitan Matter)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	A Master of Black Ops	The Ecolitan Operation is the first novel in the Ecolitan Matter series according to the internal chronology.  The United Confederation of Independent Worlds -- otherwise known as the Empire -- is an hegemony of over 190 worlds plus their colonies and other dependencies.  The capital of the Empire is at New Augusta on Terra, although many support functions are based off-planet, particularly on Alphane. <br />The Emperor is the titular head of the United Confederation, but most power resides in the Senate.  The Empire nominally includes about fifty semi-autonomous principalities on the fringes.  The largest of these is the Conglomerate of Fuard, which is aggressively flaunting its military might.<br />The Empire has long ago ceased to work for the welfare of its member planets, but instead has strived for maintenance of the status quo and perpetuation of the institutions of the Empire itself.  The dependent worlds have been hit the hardest with increased taxes and conscripted troops. Armed rebellions have occurred sporadically throughout the colonies.<br />In this novel, Major Jimjoy Earle Wright III is a Special Operative for the Imperial Space Service who manages to successfully complete the most difficult missions, but who displeases his superiors with the intemperate violence of his methods.   They would prefer something more subtle, but Jimjoy does whatever must be done to achieve the objective. <br />In his current mission, he causes a fusion plant explosion to kill off the Halstani High Command, but has a collateral kill count of over fifty thousand bystanders.  His case officer sends him next to Accord to observe and report on the Ecolitan Institute, but the Empire has a lethal surprise waiting for him on the planet.  He is ambushed by Imperial agents before he can even check into a hotel.<br />Jimjoy recognizes the agent who gets away and decides to accept an invitation from the Institute to stay in their facilities.  He had wanted to get a feel for the planet before approaching the Institute, but the security aspects seem more important after the attempted assassination.  The Ecolitan Prime himself greets Jimjoy when he arrives at the Institute and assures him that he has complete freedom of access to the computers, buildings and classes.<br />Rumors precede him and he is the subject of many speculations.  The Institute provides him a daily itinerary of classes and events which he might want to attend and he is soon impressed by their expertise in genetics and other subjects as well as the accessibility of works that are proscribed in the Empire.  He soon becomes a regular participant in the unarmed combat classes.<br />When Jimjoy is ready to return to the Empire, he enlists the aid of Ecolitan Thelina Andruz to bypass the traps which are surely awaiting him.  After returning, he prepares a little insurance before reporting back to his case officer.  After a stormy debrief, Jimjoy is hustled off-planet to the hotspot on the New Kansaw on another impossible mission.<br />In this story, Jimjoy is almost terminated with extreme prejudice by his own organization in several instances in addition to the normal risks of his occupation.  Despite a strong sense of loyalty, he begins to understand that there is no place for him in the Empire.  He starts to become obsessed by the need to get back to the Institute on Accord, where he has found the only acceptance in his stormy life.<br />Jimjoy has other reasons to return to Accord, including Ecolitan Thelina.  He believes that he loves her, although she confuses and angers him.  Nonetheless, Jimjoy is stubborn and perseveres in his pursuit of the lady despite all reproofs.<br />Highly recommended for Modesitt fans and for anyone who enjoys tales of special operations with a touch of offbeat romance.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-06-08
641448:US	49390985	R3PDFK8JE9FRMX	0812514475	304662498	Timediver's Dawn (Timegod)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	The Time Searchers	Timediver's Dawn is the first novel in the Timegod duology according to internal chronological sequence.  Westron is an imperialistic power with the strongest technological base on Query.  The only remaining opposition to total dominance of the world is Eastron, where a non-technological approach is building around the &quot;witches&quot;, who can travel thousands of miles in an eyeblink.  Since Eastron cannot directly withstand Westron's military forces, however, many young &quot;witches&quot; are scattered throughout Westron society to pass on their genetic heritage.<br />In this novel, several generations after Westron has conquered Eastron, Sammis Arloff Olon is born among the gentry in Westron society, with a father who is a middle level government official and a mother who is exceptionally well-educated, well-connected, and an Eastron witch.  However, Sammis is orphaned in early adolescence by an attack of the Frost Giants, energy eaters who can timedive.  When the Frost Giants first appeared on Mithrada, the next inward planet, the Westron military attacked and destroyed several of them.  The Frost Giants responded with such massive retaliation that it destroyed the political and energy infrastructure of the home planet, leaving the Queryans leaderless, in the dark, and cold.<br />Sammis is at school when the power fails and the snow starts to fall.   After a short while, the students are released and Sammis starts walking home.  Luckily, a neighbor drives by and give him a ride.  Since his parents are not home, the neighbor takes Sammis to her house.  As they drive by the driveway to the Olon home, they see Confed marines on the grounds.<br />After warming up some and eating a little, Sammis sneaks down to his own house by the back way and finds the Confeds burning it.  He watches them for a few moments, but leaves when an explosion within the house distracts the marines.  He returns to the neighbors for the night and leaves early the next day with a few supplies.  As he passes his own driveway, Sammis is ambushed by a Confed patrol and instinctively makes his first timedive to escape.<br />Sammis heads east, avoiding other Confed troops, and soon ends up in the swamps.  He becomes a damper, learning how to find food and shelter in the wild.  However, he eventually has to leave the swamps and is picked up by a patrol from another Confed unit looking for recruits.  He is trained as a trooper and gains a place in the unit commanded by Colonel-General Odin Thor.  After his swamp experiences, Sammis is content to have adequate food, clothing and shelter with only his military superiors to hassle him. <br />In the changed world, gentry are hated and stability is provided only by military might.  His ability to timedive is still feared and despised as witchcraft by the common folk, including some of the other troopers.  However, after his unit occupies an old installation near the former site of Inequital, Sammis finds that such abilities are appreciated by his superiors.<br />Dr. Wryan Relorn has been studying timediving for some time.  Although the Frost Giants had destroyed her former support structure, Odin Thor took over the project for its potential to provide a weapon against the Enemy.  The timedivers in the project had already found paths to societies in the past and present of several nearby stars.  However, the divers are limited in their collecting of useful items by the amount they can carry on their own.<br />As Sammis fits into the routine of research and military life, he keeps being asked to do things that kill people.  Although there are always good reasons for such actions, he wonders if there is not another way to respond to external threats.  He gradually decides that he has to do something!<br />Highly recommended for Modesitt fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of young people struggling to understand their society and do the right thing while attempting to survive in a harsh environment.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-06-05
641763:US	49390985	R1YRFN8UKPC4MW	0812524365	15017975	The Timegod	Books	5	10	11	N	N	The Time Scavengers	The Timegod (1993) is the second novel in the Timegod duology, following Timediver's Dawn according to internal chronological sequence. In the previous volume, Sammis has forced Odin Thor to face the human consequences of his realpolitik and reforms the unit into a mixed force of timedivers and marines. He and Wryan maintain veto power over Odin Thor for some time.    In this novel, a million or more years later, Loki is born into the world that Sammis has helped create. The population is composed of immortals, most of whom can timedive to some extent. The Temporal Guard is continuing to supply the population with high tech bought or stolen from other societies, but fewer of the Guard personnel are able to maintain this equipment.     Despite the efforts of his parents to make him aware of its deficiencies, Loki follows in his grandfather's footsteps and joins the Temporal Guard. He goes through years of training and gains a reputation as a heavy hitter, with very strong abilities. He is used to transport the more massive items over greater distances in space and time.    Eventually Loki finds a permanent position in maintenance. There he learns patience, foresight and technique from Baldur. He also becomes friends with Sammis and Wryan, learning a lot about unarmed and armed combat. However, he has a enemy in Heimdall, who tries to kill him, but is outfoxed and injured by his own boobytrap. After this incident, the Tribunes send both Loki and Heimdall to Hell for a time, but Loki's equipment is sabotaged by Heimdall's confederates and he almost dies. The lackeys are given severe sentences in Hell and subsequent chronolobotomies, but Heimdall only gets a reprimand.    When Loki recovers from his stint in Hell, he becomes less impulsive and more paranoid. After all, Heimdall is really out to get him. However, the Tribunes protect him to a great extent because he keeps successfully performing impossible assignments that most Guards can't handle. Then the Temporal Guard encounters the sharks.    Gradually Loki begins to comprehend the defects and injustices within the system. He is beginning to get a reputation as the premier timediver, even though he is relatively junior. Some people try to use him as the figurehead for a movement to change the Guard.    This novels depicts the rise and fall of a culture that basically becomes parasitic on other societies within reach of its timedivers. Unlike Piper's Paratime culture, the Queryans are not traders, but scavengers. As with Piper's series, the Queryans begin to obsess over the Paratime secret, even modifying other societies to eliminate all effective knowledge of the nature of time.    Highly recommended for Modesitt fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of young people struggling to understand their society and their own abilities while trying to do the right thing.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-06-05
641955:US	49390985	R26YBR9WB03ZP	0312874952	564287087	Timegods' World	Books	5	10	12	N	N	The Time Thieves	Timegods' World (1993) is an omnibus edition of a duology, containing Timediver's Dawn and The Timegod.   The latter novel was originally published in a significantly shorter version as The Fires of Paratime.  Another novel, Hammer of Darkness, is based on a similar theme, but has an unrelated storyline.  In all these novels, the characters have an inherent ability to move back and forth in time and space.    In Timediver's Dawn, Sammis Arloff Olon is born as gentry on Query, with a father who is a middle level government official and a mother who is exceptionally well-educated and well-connected.  In early adolescence, however, he is orphaned by the Frost Giants and struggles just to survive in a changed world where gentry is hated and stability is provided only by military might.  He finds that his ability to timedive is still feared and despised as witchcraft by the common folk, but now is finally appreciated by his superiors.    In The Timegod, a million or more years later, Loki is born into the world that Sammis has helped create.  The population is composed of immortals, most of whom can timedive to some extent.  The Temporal Guard is continuing to supply the population with high tech bought or stolen from other societies, but fewer of the Guard personnel are able to maintain this equipment.  Despite the efforts of his parents to make him aware of its deficiencies, Loki follows in his grandfather's footsteps and joins the Temporal Guard.  There he gains mentors, one of whom is Sammis himself.  Gradually Loki begins to comprehend the defects and injustices within the system.    These novels depict the rise and fall of a culture that basically becomes parasitic on other societies within reach of its timedivers.  Unlike Piper's Paratime culture, the Queryans are not traders, but scavengers.  These novels provide examples of other such parasitic cultures for comparision, including the Frost Giants and the Hunters of Faffnir.  Unlike those cultures, the Queryans seldom intentionally perform mass killings, but miscalculations occasionally happened.    As with his other writings, the author explores the ethical issues faced by a society in crisis;  for example, these novels have much in common with the Parafaith duology.  The basis of all ethics must be survival, but the devil is in the details.  When is the cost for survival too high?    Highly recommended for Modesitt fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of young people struggling to understand their society and do the right thing while attempting to survive a series of crises.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-06-05
645669:US	49390985	R1JAW35HL1IB5W	0312890656	944413181	Redeeming the Lost (Tales of Kolmar)	Books	5	20	23	N	N	The Final Battle	Redeeming the Lost is the third novel in the Tale of Lanen Kaelar series, following The Lesser Kindred.  In the previous novel, Lanen and Varien were driven off Hadronstead by an the attack of a mercenary band after Lanen and have traveled toward the College of Mages at Verfaren. In the meantime, the apprentice healers Vilkas and Aral have fled Verfaren with their friend Willem to escape false charges of murder by the Archmage of the College.  <br />When Lanen became desperately ill in Wolfenden from her pregnancy, Vilkas and Aral were staying at the same inn.  Vilkas discovered that the mixed blood of the fetuses was incompatible with Lanen's own blood.  With Aral assisting, Vilkas healed the damage, changed her blood to match that of the children, and left Lanen in a healthy pregnant state.<br />Shortly thereafter, Varien met Salera, a Lesser Kindred who Will has adopted.  Something in Salera called to both Varien and Lanen.  They learned that they could enliven Salera's soulgem, giving her the ability to think at sapient level.  Varien and Lanen repeated this process for all the Lesser Kindred while Vilkas and Aral healed the soulgem sockets and other minor wounds.<br />The Greater Kindred have evacuated Dragon Isle to escape the volcanoes and earthquakes.  While the rest of the dragons remained on the Isle of Rest, Shikrar flew on to contact Varien and Lanen, but when he reached them, Berys and his demons have grabbed Lanen and taken her away.  Varien became half crazy with fear and grief.<br />In this novel, Lanen's mother Maran Vena has been observing her daughter for decades with the Farseer ball and knows where Berys has imprisoned Lanen.  Maran starts moving toward Shikrar.  Meanwhile, the remaining Greater Kindred land in a field near Wolfenden.<br />Maran meets Varien in the landing zone and starts to tell him about the Farseer.  However, the Lost Kindred also come to the field and want something.  Shikrar places a soulgem in the socket of one of the LostKindred, but nothing happens.  However, when Varien, Lanen and Maran all touch the Farseer ball concurrently and place the ball in contact with the soulgem, it comes to life and restores the dragon to full function.  The threesome restore all of the Lost Kindred and then promptly fall into a deep sleep.<br />The Archmage Berys receives reports of these happenings via his demon observers.  He is amazed, but not worried.  He continues to prepare for the ritual that will drain the soul out of Lanen's body and leave her as a puppet and married to Marik.  Everything is on schedule.<br />In this story, the Demonmaster Berys intends to conqueror the world using the undead spirit of the Demonlord, who had long ago been thought destroyed by the dragons.  Lanen is a vital part of these plans.  The Black Dragon is already on the way for the final battle.<br />This story shows a different view of dragonkind.  While quite conservative and contemptuous of Gedri -- humankind -- some have come to admire and even love Lanen and have grown to like other humans. Although leery of mankind's greed for gold, Shikrar and the other leaders among the Greater Kindred feel that they can live with this noisy, short-lived bunch.<br />Highly recommended for Kerner fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of dragons facing demonic magic.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-06-02
647304:US	49390985	R460GZ8MY0YYV	0345448375	365126170	Dead Lines (Bear, Greg)	Books	5	17	22	N	N	A Technological Ghost Story	Dead Lines (2004) is a ghost story.  Sometime in the near future, a new form of communications -- Trans -- has been developed.  Using analog technology over an extremely broadband channel, it provides exceptionally clear sound and promises to allow an almost unlimited number of concurrent conversations without any crosstalk.  The only drawback is that this medium is shared with the dead!    Peter Russell was a producer of low budget softcore sexploitation films.  He got out the business just as the hardcore stuff began to flood the market.  Now he is an agent for Joseph Adrian Benoliel, a Hollywood investor and former business partner during his film producing days.    In this novel, Peter receives a message stating that his best friend, Phil Richards, has died.  Phil's ex-wife Lydia had left a note in the house and Carla Wyss, an old friend, had found the note and called Peter.  The note said that Phil had died of a stroke or heart attack.    Peter has an appointment with Joseph.  After briefly returning home, he drives out to the Salammbo estate in Malibu.  When he knocks on the door, a young man named Stanley Weinstein admits him and immediately offers him a Trans phone.  After Peter concludes his business with Joseph, Weinstein walks out with Peter;  he describes the communications service, offers Peter ten thousand dollars to convince Joseph to invest, and gives Peter the remaining phones in the box to hand out to others.    Phil's memorial service will be held at his house in Tiburon.  Peter had not been previously aware that Phil had a house in Marin county.  After the memorial service, he goes looking for the Phil's old motor home that they had dreamed of using to travel around together on the World's Longest Old Farts Cross-country Hot Dog Escapade and Tour.  From the amount of yellow police tape on vehicle and the fingerprint dust, Peter finally knows where Phil had died:  behind the wheel of the motor home.    Since Lydia had taken the five hundred he hadreceived for running Joseph's errand, Peter is down to his last ten bucks.  He calls Trans and discovers that they are located in the old San Andreas prison complex (which is being converted into an office park) and receives an invitation to come by the next day.  There Peter gets a tour to the facility built into the old death row building as well as an advance on his commission.    During his perambulations, Peter has been having strange experiences.  In Peter's house, he sees a translucent image of Lydia having an emotional crisis.  After sleeping in his car by the beach while waiting for his appointment with Trans, he is visited by a crystal clear vision of an old man and three children.  Moreover, he has weird dreams.    Peter learns that he has been seeing wraiths -- visualizations of the living -- and specters -- appearances of the dead -- and realizes that these visions and the dreams have occurred only when a Trans unit is near.  He tries to gain more information from the company, but Weinstein denies any connection.  However, the inventor of the device, Arpad Kreisler, is beginning to suspect otherwise.    In this story, Peter is faced with the spiritual realm underlying ordinary reality.  Trans is providing an interface with this realm which allows the dead to manifest in everyday life.  Peter is probably the only one that can stop the intrusions.    This story is being marketed as a mainstream novel, but it is really science fiction with a fantastic premise.  As with Hamilton's Reality Dysfunction, the souls of the dead have come back to confront and possess the living.  If Trans is not terminated, the whole world could be taken over by the dead.    Highly recommended for Bear fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of supernatural presences in the ordinary world.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-06-01
648828:US	49390985	R2XE4J6LK3AQNI	0312856636	552994196	Georgia on My Mind and Other Places	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Coping with High Tech	Georgia On My Mind is a collection of fourteen SF stories published between 1987 and 1994.  It also contains an introduction by the author and afterwords for most of the stories.<br />In The Feynman Saltation, an artist with a brain tumor starts having visions of the past.  In the Bee's Kiss, a convicted voyeur uses his skills to spy on a pair of aliens.  In Millennium, a Christian tries to postpone judgment day.  In Fifteen-Love On the Dead Man's Chest, a tennis game and a funeral lead to confusion and distress.  In Deep Safari, a spurned lover rushes to the rescue in a small way.<br />In Beyond the Golden Road, a Christian monk finds a soulmate in the Great Khan's court.  In Health Care System, a medical researcher creates a bleeding edge support system.  In Humanity Test, Godwin's The Cold Equations meet Heinlein's Jerry Was a Man, with a new twist.  In That Strain Again, falling leaves repel aliens from Vegas IV.  In Destroyer of Worlds, space fanatics attempt ecological engineering.<br />In the Fifteenth Station of the Cross, the dying ruler of the world decides to bring a miracle healer from the past.  In Trapalanda, a Andean explorer guides a blind man to an extraordinary discovery.  In Obsolete Skill, a science fiction writer waking in the future finds that old methods work better for him.  In Georgia On My Mind, a pair of computer geeks discover evidence of a working analytical engine in New Zealand.<br />The author is better known for his high tech, world spanning novels, but these stories show that he can produce small gems of science fiction as well.  Of course, these stories are mostly about people who use or encounter some facet of human technology or alien supertech.   Some of these characters are unforgettable, especially the couple in Georgia On My Mind, even though they are known only through letters and journal entries.<br />Highly recommended for Sheffield fans and for anyone who enjoys short tales about humans struggling to live in a technological environment.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-05-31
649636:US	49390985	R3J0KBEACGYTHD	0886773865	125534191	Gate of Darkness, Circle of Light	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Forestalling Armageddon	Gate of Darkness Circle of Light is a singleton urban fantasy novel.  The focus of this novel is Rebecca, a brain damaged woman with the mental ability of a child, but with the Second Sight.  At the age of twelve, she was the only survivor of an automobile accident, suffering a depressed skull fracture which effectively stopped her intellectual development.  However, she continued to develop sexually and thus was a desirable target for sexual predators.  She has been a ward of the Toronto Metro Social Services since the accident.<br />In this novel, on a Saturday night, Rebecca discovers the barely alive body of the little man that lives in the tree in front of her apartment house.  He has been stabbed with a small dagger.  She takes him inside to her bed, but doesn't know what else to do.  She leaves Tom, a local cat, to guard the little man and runs to fetch Roland Chapman, a street musician and bard trainee.  When they return, the apartment has been disarrayed during a bloody battle between Tom and unknown assailants.  The little man finally gives her his name just before he dies.  His body vanishes and leaves behind a lot of blood and the dagger.<br />Rebecca leaves a phone message for Daru Sastri, her caseworker, and then they take the dagger to Mrs. Ruth, a bag lady.  She tells them that the dagger is the knife of a Black Adept.  Apparently the Darkness is making its move on the world of mankind and they need to enlist the aid of an Adept of the Light to even the odds,  Rebecca and Roland convince Ivan, a local ghost, to pass on the request and later the White Adept appears at Rebecca's apartment.  Evantarin looks like an adolescent heavy metal rocker, dressed in black and white, and of course is beautiful in a masculine way.<br />As Rebecca, Roland and Evan are discussing the situation, Daru arrives hastily from a family party and is brought up to date.  They determine that the Black Adept has come to open a portal into the realm of Darkness on Midsummer Night;  meanwhile, he is killing off the creatures of light and gray as well as indulging himself in sex and blood.  Hopefully, they will be able to prevent him from opening the gate and thus forestall the devastation of the Earth in total combat between Darkness and Light.<br />Police Constable Patton and her partner, PC Brooks, become aware that something out of the ordinary is happening when their car hits a unicorn.  Thereafter, they are involved in several mysterious deaths and keep running into Roland and Evan during their investigations.  However, both are vulnerable to the manipulations of the Dark Adept and are continually diverted from the real action.<br />This story is reminiscent of the Bedlam's Bard series by Lackey et al, although preceding that series.  In fact, two of Lackey's songs are used herein.  However, it based more on the Zoroastrian mythos, in which a balance between good and evil is the desired state, allowing free will for humanity.  The exact nature of both good and evil is not specified, but left as a mystery.<br />The story is apparently the author's third fantasy novel.  It has a very unpredictable plotline and an unusual set of well defined characters, although the Dark Adept is stereotypical (evil so lacks originality).  The character of Rebecca is extraordinary and the persona of the White Adept Evan is believable without being stuffy.  Tom is a male cat, period;  he is a totally independent soul with the heart of a warrior.<br />In case you didn't notice, I thoroughly enjoyed this novel.  I have also enjoyed the author's Valor science fiction series.  I have other novels by this author on my shelf which I should get to very soon.<br />Highly recommended for Huff fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of urban fantasy with a different twist.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-05-30
656015:US	49390985	R3GSIKEDHYJUK	0345447557	291220673	The Speed of Dark	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Aliens Among Us	The Speed of Dark is a singleton SF novel.  A couple of decades in the future, autism has become a treatable condition, first via special training of younger children and then via genetic engineering of the fetus or infant.  However, millions of autistics were too old for the training or gene therapy.  Now a procedure has been discovered to directly modify the brain to correct the condition, but the procedure has only been tested with animals.<br />In this novel, Lou Arrendale is a trained autistic.  He works for a pharmaceutical company with other autistics in a bioinformatics unit specializing in pattern recognition and algorithm design.  His unit has been provided with a gym equipped with its own sound system and musical library as well as other features to provide for their special needs.<br />Despite the legal requirements for such facilities, a newly appointed executive, Crenshaw, views such benefits as wasteful and unnecessary expenses in his budget.  When the company obtains the North American rights to the new procedure, he starts pressuring these autistic employees to join the initial test group.  If they undergo the procedure, then these employees will no longer have these special needs, but any employee who resists such treatment will be forced to resign or laid off.<br />In this story, the manager of this unit, Pete Aldrin, knows that his subordinates not only have a legal right to these special facilities, but have also earned these benefits by their astounding productivity.  Moreover, he recognizes that such tactics are blatantly illegal, but he knows that others have been laid off recently and fears for his own job.  However, he starts working his contacts in an undercover effort to foil Crenshaw's plans.<br />The story is about aliens -- others -- dwelling in human society.  Although born of human parents, these autistics think and behave differently than most of their friends and associates.  Early intervention has allowed them to participate in most aspects of human society, but they still are awkward and uncomfortable in many social situations and are subjects of curiosity and suspicion.<br />The life and thoughts described in this story forms an engrossing look at human society through a different viewpoint.  While the story only speculates about the characteristics of a trained autistic, the author has created a very believable personality in Lou Arrendale.  One cannot help being vicariously drawn into his world, sharing in his hopes and fears and recognizing his strengths and limitations.<br />This novel continues a long tradition in science fiction of portraying unusual characters in pivotal events.  Beginning with Stapleton's Odd John, other such stories have included Shiras' Children of the Atom and Van Vogt's Slan.  This story, however, focuses on the liberation of a group of people that currently suffer from a disabling and virtually untreatable condition.  What riches will we find upon lifting the barriers of autism?<br />Highly recommended for Moon fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales about unusual people coping with an alien yet familiar society.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-05-25
656675:US	49390985	R1IW68MKQUB81O	0765304686	952123131	Mistress of Dragons (The Dragonvarld, Book 1)	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Humans Are Revolting	Mistress of Dragons is the first novel in the The Dragonvarld series.  Long ago, the world was ruled by the dragons.  They were greedy, capricious and deadly, especially the younger ones.  Then mankind appeared in the world and the dragons saw them as another prey.  In fact, they savored the taste of human flesh.<br />But the Dragon Wars had exhausted the dragons and despoiled their world.  The twelve dragon families formed a parliament to govern their own behavior and eventually the parliament outlawed predation on humans and proscribed any interference whatsoever in their affairs without prior parliamentary approval.  Moreover, they limited contact with the humans to one dragon, Draconas, who wore human form.<br />The kingdom of Seth was isolated from the rest of Dragonvarld by high mountains.  Three centuries in the past, a dragon had entered the kingdom and devoured both animals and humans.  The kingdom was saved by the magic of the Mistress of Dragons, who asked only that the kingdom construct and maintain a monastery to provide a vigilant watch for intruding dragons.<br />In this novel, High Priestess Melisande of the Temple of the Watchful Eye performs her daily scan for intruders and discovers a dragon approaching the monastery.  After alerting the garrison, she reports to the current Mistress of Dragons and is told to continue to observe the beast.  She warns off the dragon and he claims that he only wants to talk to her mistress, but Melisande does not believe him.  As he draws close, the Mistress releases the collective powers of the priestesses and the warriors attack with spear and arrow, thus driving away the beast with various wounds.<br />When the dragon Braun reports his reception to the Dragon Parliament, they consider once again taking action against Maristara, the dragon who rules Seth through the hierarchy of the Temple.  And once again, nothing is decided.  However, Draconas himself devises a plan and implements it with the aid of Braun.<br />In this story, Draconas begins to suspect that someone in parliament (or close to it) is aiding Maristara and keeping her informed of parliamentary actions.  He starts to keep his plans secret from all except Braun and Anora, the Prime Minister.  He subsequently encounters the conspirator in human form, but is not able to determine his true identity.<br />This story shows Draconas learning for himself that plans seldom survive contact with the enemy.  Time after time he finds himself struggling to respond to the unexpected actions of his opponents (and his allies).  This segment ends with him taking desperate action to save a few parts of his plan from total failure.  It is time for a new and better plan.<br />The story is action packed and abounds with surprises and plot twists.  However, the characterization is a little wooden.  Moreover, the good guys seem to be hopelessly naive, but probably that conclusion just reflects my frustration with their foolish actions.  The sequel may show a little more savvy from Draconas and Anora.<br />Recommended for Weis fans and for anyone who enjoys tales of slow reacting and very conservative dragons trying to respond to the fast moving pace of human society, with a few dragon traitors pulling the strings of the humans.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-05-24
659198:US	49390985	RL91OGZQ9NHI2	0446678996	39969173	Vincalis the Agitator	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Downfall of the Dragon Empire	Vincalis the Agitator (2002) is the prequel to The Secret Texts Trilogy.  The Empire of Hars Ticlarim has existed for three millennia, growing in might and expanding into the surrounding barbarian lands.  During the last millennium, Dragon magic has powered the Empire, insuring plentiful  supplies of food and other necessities for eight billion citizens, creating fantastic works of architecture, and overcoming their enemies.  Unknown to the general populace, however, this Dragon magic was based on the flesh, bone, blood and life of the drugged prisoners within the Warrens.    In this novel, Wraith is a Warrener who has awakened from the Sleep.  He stopped eating the Wayfare that caused the stupor and instead stole his meals from the surrounding city, sneaking out of the Vincalis gate to salvage food from the garbage.  Over a period of time, he found others who are not quite lost in the Sleep and weaned them from the Wayfare, but only he can pass through the gate into the city without being destroyed.    One day, as he is searching for food for Smoke and Jess, Wraith finds a market square where people are apparently taking food without paying.  He fills a basket and leaves, but is noticed and pursued as a thief.  He ducks into an open gateway and is hidden by Solander Artis, the only child of the Master of Energy, third highest position in the Empire.    Solander discovers that Wraith is immune to magic;  the magical force just passes through him as if he wasn't there.  Solander wishes to study this immunity and conceives a plan to establish Wraith and his friends in the Artis household as remote cousins from the hinterlands.  Solander involves his cousin Velyn in the plans and Wraith becomes infatuated with her on sight.    Wraith returns to the Warrens with a box of Artis edibles to find that Smoke has returned to the Sleep when the food gave out, but that Jess is still waiting for him.  He tells her of the plan and then leaves to meet Solander and Velyn.  They return with an official aircar and smuggle Jess out of the Warrens.    In this story, Solander and Wraith discover that the Dragon Council has discovered a new, more powerful source of magic based on destruction of the souls of the Warreners.  They resolve to liberate the Warreners, with Solander working from within and Wraith writing plays to enlighten the populace to the harmful side of magic.  In order to protect their identities, Solander underwrites the first play through intermediaries and Wraith pretends that the plays were written by someone else called Vincalis.    This story shows the callous disregard of the Dragons toward the people in the Warrens;  the Dragons label them as inhumans and thus not to be considered when the welfare of the whole Empire is at stake.  Unfortunately for the Dragons, the god Vodor Imrish disagrees with them and is helping the rebels.  From the destruction that results comes the world of The Secret Texts.    This work has many of the strengths of The Secret Texts trilogy, but the storyline does not flow as naturally as the trilogy.  Since this is the prequel, the ending is a foregone conclusion, but some of that inevitability appears to have crept into the development of both characters and plot, causing a sense of abruptness.  Nonetheless, this story is fully enjoyable, both as a prequel and on its own.    Recommended for Lisle fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of strange societies and stranger magic together with political intrigue and a touch of romance.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-05-22
669856:US	49390985	RMGLWLI363IBQ	0060562056	871612858	Stopping for a Spell	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Spell of Domestic Crises	Stopping for a Spell is a collection of three fantasy stories, all involving annoying visitors of one kind or another.  When the adults in the family are ineffectual, the children spring to the rescue.    In Chair Person, Aunt Crista accidentally causes the old striped armchair in front of the television to come alive.  Unfortunately, it is a selfish, greedy boor and overstuffed to boot.    In The Three Grannies, an invention grants prayers, but requires careful wording.  A thoughtless request creates the SuperGranny, but a clumsy foot saves the day.    In Who Got Rid of Angus Flint?, another selfish, greedy boor moves into the house and says unkind things about the furniture.  It doesn't pay to get a baby grand irritated.    These three stories depict strange and uncomfortable happenings in the home.  They will give you a new perspective on your own troubles.  But don't read them before bed if you are prone to bad dreams!    Recommended for the younger Jones fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of domestic crises aggravated (or solved) with a little magic.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-05-13
671659:US	49390985	R3F8PKCU8BECII	0765304384	744554497	Out of the Darkness	Books	5	6	11	N	N	The Fighting is Over, But is the War Ended?	Out of the Darkness (2004) is the sixth and concluding novel in the World At War series, following Jaws of Darkness.  In the previous volume, the Forthwegian rebellion in Eoforwic failed and Bembo was glad to return to being a constable instead of a fighter.  Ealstan was not happy with the loss, but relieved to return to Vainu and Saxburh.  However, the Valmieran uprising was successful and Skarnu brought Merkela and Gedominu to his mansion in Priekule, where they confronted his pregnant sister.    Marshall Rathar went to Cottbus to be rewarded with command of the Algarve invasion.  Minister Hajjaj, however, went to Cottbus to surrender to the Unkerlanters.  Count Sabrino and his men were still outflying the Unkerlanters, but were not getting replacements.  Colonel Spinello was facing Unkerlanters across the Twegen River and wondering at mushroom gathering Forthwegians.  Sidroc had dug up a farmer's cache of food and his unit ate well for a time.      Talsu led a force of Kuusaman troops through the lines past Skrunda.  Kun and Istvan got the runs and missed the mass suicide.  Garivald found an infiltrator who looked like an old Forthwegian.    In this novel, Ealstan intends to kill Colonel Spinella, but Vanai first provides Spinello with a mushroom dish that he really enjoys ... until the pain starts.  Marchioness Krasta keeps insisting that the baby is Valnu's, but Merkela is waiting to see the color of the baby's hair.  The flyers in Count Sabrino unit keep knocking out the Unkerlanter bridges, but also keep losing men, so the Algarvian mages develop a magic that guides the dropped eggs onto the target from a great height.  General Gurmun is killed by a sorcerously disguised infiltrator.    In this story, the war goes on, with the Algarvians still using their forces more effectively than their opponents.  Nevertheless, it is obvious to almost everybody that Algarve is losing the war.  Algarve is slowing down the advancing troops and even forcing them to withdrawon occasions, but their enemies always come back.  The Algarvians are trying new magics, but cannot match the new Kuusano magics nor overcome the Unkerlanter numerical superiority.    The Algarvians concentrate their replacements and most supplies on the western front, for Unkerlant is the most feared enemy.  While the Kuusamans and Lagoans are not having an easy time of it, the forces facing them are not receiving sufficient support.  Whole units are beginning to surrender due to shortages of food and charged weapons.    This mixed up history allowed the author to present the viewpoints and feelings of all the participants in the conflict.  While the Argarvians were not represented by a truly sympathetic character, some admirable aspects were presented.  However, the Algarvian arrogance and sense of superiority -- compensating for an inferiority complex? -- was a universal attribute;  was the author unable to find any truly admirable Algarvian characters?.  Although many nobles and peasants were portrayed as undesirable persons, the exceptions were well represented in every nation except Algarve.  Even in Nazi Germany, there were some good people!    This volume is the truest of the series in describing the attitudes and feelings of the actual participants of the real World War II.  While the end of the conflict was a relief for rulers as well as peasants, the new conditions were, in many ways, much worst than the war itself.  Moreover, there were plenty of people who were not satisfied with the results.  As with the real world, the Derlavians will soon find themselves fighting a cold war.    Highly recommended for Turtledove fans and for anyone else who enjoys alternate history from the participant's viewpoint.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-05-12
672705:US	49390985	R17PZ44CHBU10H	0743435230	560643167	The Shadow of the Lion (Heirs of Alexandria)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A Well Woven Story with an Abundance of Vivid Details	The Shadow of the Lion (2002) is the first novel in the Heirs of Alexandria series. In 415 AD, the librarian Hypatia faced down a mob attempting to burn the Library of Alexandria. Her efforts saved many obscure works of the ancients, including a number of very powerful magical works.  Although originally a neo-platonic philosopher, Hypatia was converted to Christianity and became the founder of an order dedicated to Christian magery, opposing the anti-magic biases of the Pauline Orders.    In 1537 AD, within this alternate timeline, all of Europe is threatened by the Grand Duchy of Lithuania and Poland, whose Grand Duke Jagiellon is a puppet of the demon-lord Chernobog. Emperor Charles Frederik of the Holy Roman Empire is the principal European leader of the opposition to Chernobog. The Knights of the Holy Trinity are supposedly his main agents in the Baltic regions, but they have their own agenda and have developed ties with the militant and unpredictable priestly order of the Servants of the Holy Trinity.    The Venetian Republic is the Queen of the Mediterranean, a bastion of independence and tolerance. Now forces are gathering in and around Venice. From Chernobog comes a shapechanged shaman to lurk in the lagoon and canals. From the Knights of the Holy Trinity comes a force of Knots and a few Sots; included among these knights are Manfred of Brittany, nephew of Charles Frederik, and his mentor Erik. And from the Grand Metropolitan of Rome come the Basque priest Eneko Lopez and his companions.    In this novel, Marco and Benito Valdosta are grandsons of Enrico Dell'este, the Old Fox, Lord of Ferrara, Modena, Este, and Reggio nell'Emilia. Moreover, Benito is the illegitimate son of Carlo Sforza, the Wolf of the North, military leader of the Milanese forces. Although both brothers were thought dead after their mother was assassinated, they have been hiding within the Venetian environs, Marco among the marsh-dwellers and Benito among the street people. After an assassin attacks Marco in the harbor, the brothers seek the protection of Caesare Aldanto, an adventurer and former Montagnard assassin.    When Caesare becomes sick, Marco and Benito help Maria Garavelli, his lover, take Caesare home and treat his fever. Maria is a canaler who was born and raised on her gondola; after her mother died of a fever, Maria assumed her mother's customers and route. Maria is related to many of the Arsenalotti, the families who traditionally work at the municipal shipyard.    Benito has lately done work for Katherine Montescue, the last scion of an old Venetian family who has fallen on hard times. Kat has established a gray business smuggling magical artifacts and other magical goods with her gondola. Recently she has become friends with Franscesca De Chevreuse, a courtesan who becomes the mistress of Manfred.    In this story, the Doge has reduced his opposition to religious persecution by the Sots and other Christian fanatics and the Sots have taken advantage of his recent slackness, stepping up their persecution of the Stegas and other non-Christian mages. In fact, they are very much opposed to even Christian mages such as the Siblings of St. Hypatia. The Sots have recently brought a powerful pagan artifact to the Imperial Embassy (unknowingly under the fearful eyes of Kat and Benito) and have performed questionable magical rites therein.    The Montagnards are also becoming more active in Venice and have recently tried to terminate Caesare with extreme prejudice. The magical population of Venice have noticed that some of the Sots (as well as a few Knots) are tainted and thus the undines and other pagan entities have been staying away from the embassy. The Stegas have become more disorganized, but also more militant, and have been searching for one of their leaders, Dottore Luciano Marina, who disappeared several years past under dark circumstances; Eneko is also trying to discover the status of Dottore Marina. Meanwhile, Marco is being pressured from all sides to accept his mage talents.    The story is a major alternative history of Venice. The rich details of the historical Venice are intermixed with a fantastic extrapolation of the existence of real magic in this timeline. For the most part, the magic is part of the background, but it also pervades every aspect of Venetian life. An amazing tour de force!     The story is multi-threaded, with a fairly large set of characters (it does include a list of characters and other information in the appendices). This may cause some confusion about the minor characters during the frequent scene changes, but the main characters are memorable and fairly well fleshed out. However, there is plenty of room for character development in the sequel, This Rough Magic.    Highly recommended for Lackey, Flint and Freer fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of high magic, political intrigue, and Renaissance society with a touch of romance.     -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-05-11
675646:US	49390985	R23V0E4TACDEZ2	0765302608	454308318	The Buried Pyramid	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Seeking the Good King	The Buried Pyramid is a singleton fantasy novel.  In the late 1860's, Egypt under the hegemony of the British Empire had been transformed into an exotic vacation spot for Europeans.  First class hotels had been built in Alexandria and Cairo and the Egyptian tombs and monuments had become popular stopping places for Cooks Tours.  Archaeologists were still digging in the Valley of Kings and elsewhere, discovering more about the ancient Egyptian civilization.<br />Captain Neville Hawthorne had served in Egypt and participated in such archaeological expeditions.  One such excursion involved a long buried pyramid of the Good King, Pharoah Neferankhotep, beloved of the gods and his people.  Neville accompanied the German Alphonse Liebermann into the desert following a journal entry by an explorer who stumbled over a valley in the desert that matched the description of the buried pyramid.  <br />During their trek, they came across the Hawk Rock mentioned in the journal, but were attacked by desert tribesmen.  After a forced battle among the old ruins, they frightened away the tribesmen and escaped back to the Nile.  Neville tried later to search for the buried pyramid, but was once more attacked by tribesmen and severely injured, resulting in his disability retirement from the service.<br />In this novel, Neville Hawthorne was added to the honors list upon retirement and is now Sir Neville.  He is also a moderately wealthy man, has remained interested in Egyptian affairs, and is acquainted with many of the Egyptologists in England.  Sir Neville has put off trying again to discover the buried pyramid, but the death of his sister Alice reminds him not to wait too long.<br />Sir Neville has just about completed his preparations to leave for Egypt when he finds himself with a newly arrived niece on his hands.  Genevieve Benet became an orphan with the death of her mother and father and Sir Neville is now her closest relative and guardian.  Upon learning his plans, Jenny becomes determined to accompany him on the expedition.<br />Jenny Benet is a child of the American frontier, equally proficient with guns and knives as well as the manners of high society.  She is also a trained medical assistant, spending many years studying under her father in his practice.  She is quite competent at treating gunshot wounds.<br />In this story, Sir Neville and Jenny travel to Egypt with Steven David Holboe, a noted scholar of Egyptian matters.  On the boat, they encounter another party lead by Lady Audrey Cheshire, the widow of one of Sir Neville's Egyptologist friends.  Somehow, Lady Cheshire continues to cross their path throughout the journey.<br />From the beginning of their journey, they have been receiving encoded notes from someone calling themselves the Sphinx.  The warnings are rather vague, but ominous.  Later, Jenny and Steven begin to think that they are being warned about Lady Cheshire.<br />In Cairo, Sir Neville contacts Eddie Bryce, one of his former subordinates and a fellow veteran of the Liebermann expedition.  Eddie had married Miriam, the young native who saved that expedition.  Now he is a converted Muslim with the adopted name of Ibrahim Alhadj ben Josef and the father of three sons and two daughters.  With his contacts in the local community, Eddie soon arranges the details of their journey.<br />Later, the party is attacked in their lodgings by men wearing jackal masks and carrying knives.  However, Jenny shoots her assailant and the remainder flee, but not before injuring Sir Neville.  Another masked man attacks Eddie near his home, but Eddie is better with a knife.  Apparently the men who had attacked Sir Neville long before are aware of their identity and purpose.<br />When Sir Neville and his party finally reach the desert, they find much more than they expected.  The legends of Neferankhotep are much truer than they thought;  someone is protecting the tomb of the Good King.  Moreover, their European opponents have joined forces with the native protectors.  Soon they find themselves in judgment, facing the truth about themselves and their motives.<br />Highly recommended for Lindskold fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of victorian adventurers, ancient societies and foreign gods. <br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-05-08
675995:US	49390985	R37RM7J70JE7G2	076530046X	743349126	Not Really the Prisoner of Zenda: A Guardians of the Flame Novel (Tom Doherty Associates Books)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Domestic Disturbances	Not Really the Prisoner of Zenda is the tenth novel in the Guardians of the Flame series, following Not Quite Scaramouche.  In the previous volume, Pirojil, Kethol, Erenor, Leria and Ellegon searched for Forinel as the heir presumptive of the Barony of Keranahan, hoping to block the succession of Elanee's son Miron.  They found Forinel in Therranj, happily married to an elven woman.  Although Forinel refused to return to the Middle Lands to claim the barony, Erenor persuaded the elves to use their wizardry to change Kethol to be his exact duplicate.  When Kethol returned to Biemestren as Forinel, he was named to the Barony by Parliament and was betrothed to Leria, a smart lady who is quite satisfied with her fate.<br />In this novel, Forinel returns to Keranahan after Parliament to claim his new estate.  But first he and Leria drop off at Dereneyl to visit Treseen, local Imperial governor, and find Miron there before them.  After a few words, they take Miron with them to the Residence and start making domestic arrangements.  Pirojil and a disguised Erenor stay with them for the time being to guard Forinel and Leria.  <br />Although all seems to be right at the estate, the guard force is mostly too young or too old and not well trained.  Forinel finds, however, that his yeomen are competent with the bow and may stand up to armed opposition.  He takes some of them out bandit hunting and is well pleased with their actions.<br />Forinel is also well pleased with his betrothed, who overcomes his shyness with noble ladies with a well planned seduction.  Moreover, her words of advice are informed and shrewd, just what he needs to carry out the impersonation.  Unfortunately, she is called back to the capital by the Dowager Empress, leaving him alone and lovesick.<br />While she is away, an assassin penetrates the Residence security and reaches the master bedroom.  But he is frustrated in his attempt to murder Forinel by the wizardry of Erenor.  Although the assassin dies without providing any information, Forinel and his friends decide that the instigator was probably Miron or somebody else in the capital and they leave for Biemestren.<br />In this story, intrigue and treason is the game du jour.  The Dowager Empress is still trying to kill off Jason Cullinane to protect her son, yet not being very successful.  Baron Tyrnael has been frustrated in his attempts to give the barony to Miron, but now he seeks to marry his daughter to Thomen and thus gain the throne for his grandson.  Miron is busily outwitting everybody, winning sword matches, and playing the innocent.  Meanwhile, Kethol (not Forinel) is itching for a chance to cross swords with Miron.<br />This story is a tour de force worthy of Anthony Hope or even Dumas, but with a more cynical and realistic approach.  The surprise ending is not foreshadowed in the slightest, but is still fully satisfying.  The author's writing improves with time, but can he produce an even better sequel than this volume?<br />Highly recommended to Rosenberg fans and to anyone else who enjoys tales in the style of Hope, Sabitini or Dumas, but with more than a touch of cynical realism.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-05-08
675999:US	49390985	R2ZD61DVNCE5AW	0812574702	300887782	Not Quite Scaramouche: A Guardians of the Flame Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Searching for Mister Good Baron	Not Quite Scaramouche (2001) is the ninth fantasy novel in the Guardians of the Flame series, following Not Exactly the Three Musketeers.  In the previous volume, Baroness Elanee instigated a plot to lure Ellegon into a trap, but Pirojil, Kethol, Durine and Erenor foiled the setup.  However, Durine and a medium sized brown dragon were killed and Erenor required a healing draught for his slit throat.  Although her treasonous plot misfired, Elanee herself survived until Ellegon and Pirojil   executed the death warrant on her.  Her son Miron disappeared in the confusion.    In this novel, Emperor Thomen calls Parliament into session and Jason Cullinane is late.  In addition, Henrad the wizard is beginning to feel the presence of another wizard in the castle.  Walter Slovotsky, the new Imperial Proctor, decides to kill two birds with one stone and sends Pirojil, Kethol and Erenor to Barony Cullinane.    Jason delays to the last minute before leaving for Parliament and then finds himself delayed by assassins.  Kethol first detects something scaring the wildlife and he, Pirojil and Ahira  Bandylegs go into the woods to check out the situation.  They find an assassin with two crossbows, one of which gets Ahira in the thigh and the other scrapes Kethol's ear.    Pirojil takes the party off the Royal road and occupies a nearby farmhouse.  That evening, Kethol and Ahira take a shortcut through the woods to Dernal's Ford and Pirojil and Erenor head off through the rain on the Royal road to Belneten's Spring.  Pirojil and Erenor find more assassins waiting for them, but the other party find Imperial troopers guarding a landing zone for Ellegon.  The next day, Jason and his close associates ride to Parliament in style, way above any possible assassins on the ground.    In this story, Miron returns to Biemestren through the sponsorship of Baron Tyrnael.  General Treseen recommends that Miron be installed as the new baron and Parliament tends to agree.  Walter delays the decision,hoping for an alternative.  Leria provides a means of searching for the long gone Forinel, heir presumptive to the barony, and Pirojil, Kethol, Erenor and Leria fly off of Ellegon to search for the heir.    This story twists and turns like a snake with its head cut off.  Some things remain the same, of course, such as Kethol dashing heroically after the assassin and Jason standing up on Ellegon as they fly along.  Naturally, the barons are always plotting something and the Imperial governors in the Holt baronies are playing their own game.    Recommended for Rosenberg fans and for anyone who enjoys tales of high adventure and intrigue with more than a touch of cynicism.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-05-08
683653:US	49390985	RZ1595OWUXU8F	0345452488	152173173	Time's Eye (A Time Odyssey, Book 1)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	A Mixup of Time	Time's Eye is the first novel in A Time Odyssey series.  In the North-west Frontier between Pakistan and Afghanistan, four groups find themselves separated from their own times.  Moreover, silvery globes fixed in mid air are scattered throughout the landscape, apparently observing local activity.<br />In this novel, a UN surveillance helicopter in 2037 is fired upon by a Pastun adolescent, damaging the tail rotor.  The pilot, Casey Othic, breaks his leg in the emergency landing, but the co-pilot, Abdikadir Omar, and the observer, Biseasa Dutt, are not injured.  All the fluttering and smoke attract the attention of nearby soldiers, who think the contraption is a Russian machine.<br />The soldiers are Tommies and sepoy troops from Jamrud, a fort in the English Raj of 1885.  Included among them are two correspondents, the Anglo-Indian Ruddy and the American Josh White.  They surround the smoking machine and order the occupants to surrender their weapons and exit the device.  They have to help extricate Casey from the distorted frame.<br />A British patrol also finds a pair of &quot;man-apes&quot; wandering the plains.  The mother and child look very much like chimpanzees, but they have longer legs and a truly upright posture.  The helicopter crew decide that they are australopithecines from at least two million years in the past.<br />In low earth orbit, a Soyuz re-entry vehicle from 2037 is lost in time after launching from the International Space Station on a routine crew rotation.  Musa, Kolya and Sable use their instruments to scan the planet, but can find only a few locations with signs of large populations.  The capsule communications gear cannot detect any radio sources, but Sable uses a discarded amateur rig to locate two sources, one of which is the UN helicopter radio.<br />In this story, the UN personnel share information with the Soyuz crew and determine that they are stranded in the thirteenth century.  The British capture some scouts from an army translocated from 326 BC and send Biseasa and Abdikadir with some of the Raj troopers to make contact.  The Soyuz crew land and find themselves among a Mongolian empire.<br />This story is a well crafted tale of time dysfunctions and mixed histories, much like Dickson's Time Storm, but with a static timescape.    It is also much like Stirling's Island in Time novels or Flint's Grantville series on a grander scale.  However, it adds the omnipresent silvery spheres, which Biseasa senses are observation devices.  She has gained an impression of a very old species, maybe from the earliest formed stars, which she names the Firstborn.  Apparently these aliens have caused the time dysfunctions or, at least, are busily observing the phenomenon.<br />Despite the hype, this novel does not present any new notions.  Unlike Clarke's The Other Side of the Sky, it does not set a new standard for SF works.  The only high-tech idea is the use of superstring theory to (vaguely) explain the time dysfunctions.<br />The story does have a lot of name dropping, from Rudyard Kipling to Genghis Khan and Alexander the Great, and even more use of famous locales.  The Kipling inclusion is probably a tribute to a fellow SF writer, but the other contrived coincidences are rather tacky.  Nonetheless, the story is well written and entertaining, the best joint work produced by these authors to date.<br />Recommended for Clarke and Baxter fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of alternate history and castaways in time.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-05-02
685319:US	49390985	R2SR3QY6TZF6WH	0786930128	637698164	The Lone Drow (Forgotten Realms: The Hunter's Blades Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Drizzt Alone amidst Tens of Thousands of Goblinkin	The Lone Drow is the second novel in the Hunter's Blades trilogy, following The Thousand Orcs.  In the previous volume, the goblinkin topple Withegroo's tower and overrun Shallows town.  King Bruenor was injured in the crashing tower and the orcs believed him to have been killed.  However, some of the defenders, including the injured dwarf king, escaped within a wooden sculpture of Gruumsh, the orcish god.<br />In this novel, Drizzt has been killing orcs, goblins and giants outside the siege lines and believes his friends to have died when the town fell.  In his pain, he retreats into the Hunter state and loses himself in the killing.  He is not quite alone among the goblinkin, for two surface elves, Tarathiel and Innovindil, and their pegasi mounts are also ambushing and raiding the orc army.  However, Drizzt is avoiding these elves since they were friends of the deluded and deceased Ellifain.<br />Bruenor is deep within a coma, being kept alive only by the healing magic of the dwarf clerics, but he is not yet dead.  Regis has been appointed Steward to manage the affairs of Mithral Hall as Bruenor would have wanted it run.  Catti-brie and Wulfgar are supporting Banak Brawnanvil in holding back the orc army on the cliffs overlooking Keeper's Dale to the west of Mithral Hall.<br />The dwarves from Mirabar under Torgar Hammerstriker are also fighting with Banak on the western cliffs.  Marchon Elastul of Mirabar is incensed at this betrayal and sends Shoudra Stargleam and Nanfoodle the gnome alchemist to cause trouble in Mithral Hall.  However, Shoudra and Nanfoodle soon have other plans.<br />King Obould Many-Arrows has attracted even more goblinkin after the fall of Shallows and the supposed death of King Bruenor.  The orc shamans begin to follow Arganth Snarrl, who is proclaiming Obould as the avatar of Gruumsh.  Obould's son, Urlgen Threefist, commands the orcs facing Banak on the cliffs, but his father is holding back replacements and thus stealing the victory from him.  Gerti, the queen of the frost giants, is beginning to see Obould taking charge and leaving her in a subordinate role.  The four renegade drow advising Obould also see their influence lessening and Kaer'lic, priestess of Lloth, is beginning to fear Drizzt intensely.<br />In this story, the orc army in the west and the trolls in the east are beginning to grind down the dwarves and their allies.  Although Banak is devastating the goblinkin attacking him, the orcs are receiving reinforcements and the dwarves are not.  Moreover, King Obould is starting to make sound decisions, unlike the usual orc style of warfare.<br />For those who prefer action, this story may exceed your every desire.  Whenever Drizzt is feeling depressed, he goes out and kills more orcs and giants.  Meanwhile, the orcs are throwing themselves at the dwarves defending Mithral Hall.  Thank goodness for the occasional introspection piece by Drizzt to allow the pulse rate to return to normal.<br />This story shows the dwarves on the defense.  Moreover, Drizzt is mostly alone (except for Guenhwyvar) and convinced that he is the sole survivor among the companions.  Nesme has fallen to the trolls and the survivors fled.  Other than Mirabar, the dwarf allies are on the wrong side of the Subrin defense built by the goblinkin.  The situation looks dark.  Can the author save all in the concluding volume, The Two Swords?<br />Highly recommended for Salvatore and Forgotten Realm fans and for anyone else who enjoys epic tales of beleaguered heroes facing powerful and wicked foes.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-05-01
685614:US	49390985	R1ARJVC7HMP7T5	0451456750	739185427	Island in the Sea of Time	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Nantucket RIses Again, Ayup	Island In the Sea of Time is the first novel in the Island In Time series.  In the nineteenth century, Nantucket had been the bustling center of the New England whaling industry.  Now the island is a quiet resort community of five thousand residents.  During the tourist season, however, this island across the sound from Cape Cod is crowded with a population of over sixty thousand.<br />In this novel, Nantucket Island is enclosed in a elliptical dome of fire in March, 1998 AD, and transported back in time to 1249 BC.  The Coast Guard training ship Eagle is also trapped in the dome and is taken back in time with the island.  Various people recognize that the stars have changed, but Doreen Rosenthal, an astronomy intern for the Margaret Milson Association, is the first on the island to determine their situation, using her scope and stellar progression software to match the current star pattern.<br />The dome of fire caused some panic, but not much rioting;  New Englanders tend to be a phlegmatic lot and it was a little early for the &quot;coofs&quot; to arrive.  However, the loss of contact with the twentieth century caused widespread depression, with some suicides among people now separated from their families.  Even the Eagle lost her executive officer.<br />After the excitement died down a bit, the islanders and their fellow exiles in time began to plan for the future.  Three fishing boats were in harbor at the time of the event and cod is thick in the surrounding waters.  Luckily, Nantucket also had some truck farms dealing in speciality items as well as family gardens,  but these farms needed to be greatly expanded to offset the loss of off-island food sources.  Moreover, fabricated goods would have to be produced on the island, recycled from existing materiel, or replaced with something else.<br />Petroleum products, for example, are very limited on the island.  However, the islanders can return to whaling, for these sea mammals are very plentiful in this time.Although some of the islanders preferred another approach, whaling was the most feasible alternative for fuel and for food.<br />Since Cape Cod and the mainland are populated by basically neolithic natives, the islanders make minimal contact with them.  However, Europe is currently developing a cottage industry that could supply them with metal and fabric stocks.  The Eagle is sent to England -- the Tin Isles -- to explore trade possibilities and there they met other traders from the Mediterranean.<br />This story is an alternate history much like de Camp's Lest Darkness Fall, where contemporary people accidently travel back in time to create a nexus from which one or more additional timelines diverge.  Their sheer presence will change the future, but as they develop anachronistic solutions to their survival problems, the timelines diverge even more radically.  What will the future bring?<br />Other reviews have complained about the personality and actions of the various characters.  Since there is plenty of historical evidence of similiar behavior in our own past (and present), what should the author have done?  He is not writing an utopia (nor a dystopia), but an adventure story of castaways in time.  Maybe these other reviewers ought to study the behavior of castaways and learn something about the real world?<br />Highly recommended for Stirling and de Camp fans and for anyone who enjoys tales of exiles in time recreating the world to meet their needs and expectations.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-04-30
688525:US	49390985	R2ITPGEX1OHOTO	0765302195	300389076	The Outstretched Shadow	Books	5	5	8	N	N	An Evil Plot Discovered	The Outstretched Shadow is the first novel in The Obsidian Trilogy.  A millennium in the past, the Great Alliance of Elves, Men, and Otherfolks joined against the Endarkened and other Shadow creatures and fought the Great War until the Enemy were driven back into the World Without Sun.  The Alliance celebrated their victory, but also mourned their losses, for the war had damaged the land and even destroyed some races of the Light.<br />The few remaining human Mages turned their back on Wild Magic and built the Golden City with High Magic, which was tame and predictable.  They banned the Wildmages who refused to deny the Wild Magic and they created a haven of stability and peace.  Any who threatened the stability of this haven were discarded.<br />In this novel, seventeen year old Kellen Travadon is the son of the Arch-Mage and a scion of a long line of Mages.  Great things are expected of Kellen and his father Lycaelon never ceases to remind him of this.  Unfortunately, Kellen is bored with his studies and restless in his relative peaceful existence.<br />Then Kellen finds three slim volumes hidden under an illusion within a bookseller's box in the low market:  the Books of the Moon, Sun and Stars.  These books teach the practice and philosophy of Wild Magic.  Kellen recognizes the titles as being on the prohibited list and is intrigued.  When Kellen loses his key after another unauthorized excursion into the city, he uses one of the spells from the Book of the Moon to find it, only to discover that he has a strong urge to run through the alley ways and climb a wall, where he finds a child who has lost a kitten up a tree and also finds his missing key as he tumbles down the tree with the errant kitten.<br />Kellen continues his studies of Wild Magic with a little more caution, but his second use of the finding spell leads him to a cistern that needs to be cleaned and filled in as well as a writer who is disillusioned about the City.  Moreover, his behavior leads hisfather to search his room and find the three books.  Kellen is called before the High Council and banished from the City.<br />In this story, Kellen flees the City with the aid of a unicorn, fights the stone hounds of the Outlaw Hunt, and discovers a older sister that he had previously not known existed (his memory had been modified) who is also a Wildmage.  Idalia is living just across the border from the City lands in a log cabin.  She is the local healing mage and also shapes the weather as needed and performs other magical tasks.  She teaches him much about the Wild Magic, relieving many of the fears induced by the lies told by their father.<br />Kellen and Idalia are not yet safe, for the Endarkened of Shadow Mountain know where he is and use him to tempt his father.  Lycaelon convinces the High Council to expand the City boundaries west to encompass their cabin and the homes of their friends.  Idalia learns of their plans as she is demonstrating the art of scrying to Kellen and they hurriedly warn their neighbors and prepare to move.<br />Kellen and Idalia flee across the Wild Hills into Elven territory.  There Kellen meets Jermayan, an Elven Knight who loves his sister (and she loves him, but is conflicted by the difference in lifespan).  He also becomes friends with young Sandalon, a five year old Elven prince.<br />In this story, Kellen is even more conflicted than his sister, for he has trouble separating the truth from the lies told by his father.  He is afraid that the Wild Magic has Tainted him so that he will eventually become a Demon.  After he discovers that Demons really exist, he becomes even more concerned.<br />He is also dissatisfied with his abilities, for he doesn't seem to be good at anything.  His sister performs Wild Magic with an effortless ease, but he must struggle to perform the simplest working.  Moreover, his former tutors have set him up to fail so many times that he is suspicious of anyone who asks him to try something.  He even suspects Idalia, despite his growing respect and love for her.<br />This story often reads like Hamlet, with Kellen questioning everything.  It doesn't help that Elves believe it is rude to ask direct questions and often avoid sensitive subjects.  Sandalon, however, is young and excused from adult manners;  in fact, he often doesn't wait for the answer before he asks the next questions, so Sandalon is a blessing to Kellen in his openness and willingness to share information.<br />This novel is a multi-threaded story, with the extra verbiage that usually accompanies such tales.  One learns more than strictly necessary about the Endarkened, who are thoroughly destestable creatures.  The novel is slow moving in places, but still full of interesting scenery and characters, especially among the Otherfolk.  There are a few places where east is used instead of west to refer to the direction toward the Elven lands;  mavbe the book was proofed in sections rather than as a whole.  Nonetheless, the story is an enjoyable introduction to the series, but this installment was terminated at a crucial point;  thank goodness the second volume, To Light A Candle, is due out in October.<br />Highly recommended for Lackey and Mallory fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of various forms of magic and conflicts between pure evil and impure humanity (together with elves, unicorns, and Otherfolk).<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-04-28
689418:US	49390985	R1LTS4FMIFASGG	0756402166	60815144	Alta: Joust #2 (Dragon Jousters)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	From the Frying Pan Into the Fire	Alta is the second novel in this series, following Joust.  In the previous volume, Vetch the Atlan serf dragon boy had stolen an egg, hid it in an unused pen, and, after it hatched, raised the dragonet in secret.  When she flew for the first time, she headed for the hills with Vetch onboard.  They outran all of the Tian Jouster pursuers except his friend Ari, who actually helped them to escape, paying the Bedu in gold to guide them through the desert to Alta.<br />In this novel, Vetch reaches Alta and is no longer a serf to the Tians, but is instead Kiron, son of Kiron, a Jouster in training.  As he and Avatre near Alta City, they rescue a noble girl from an irate river horse, but Kiron is badly injured and blacks out.  Upon awakening, he finds himself in the home of the noble Lord Ya-Tiren.  Both he and his daughter, Aken-ten, express their gratitude for his timely rescue;  in fact, Aken-ten has been tending him while he was unconscious.  Later, her brother Orest visits to express his gratitude as well.<br />Aken-ten is a Nestling Winged-One, a priestess in training and a possessor of certain talents, including the ability to speak the Silent Speech with animals.  She and Avatre have become friends while he recovered from his wounds.  Kiron is very interested in her ability to actually communicate with his dragon.<br />Orest is very fascinated with Avatre.  Although the traditional approach to taming a dragon fails to interest him, the thought of actually bonding to a dragon excites him.  This idea also appeals to several of his friends and Lord Khumun-thetus, the Jouster in charge of training, becomes intrigued enough with the possibilities to form a new unit to pursue the training practices used to raise Avatre.<br />In this story, Kiron begins to suspect something is wrong in Alta.  The Magi are too powerful and they have begun to use the Winged-Ones as sources of power to perform their magic.  Moreover, the Great Ones who rule Alta are living too long, apparently with magical aid from the Magi.<br />One of the new Jousters in Kiron's training unit is Toroth, who is one of the twin heirs to the throne.  Toroth knows much more about the Magi and their assumption of power.  Moreover, he and his twin, Kaleth, have plans to restore the power to the Great Ones when they gain the thrones.  Soon the entire unit becomes part of Tototh's conspiracy against the Magi.<br />This story relates Kiron's growing reputation among the Altan Jousters and the developing respect for his unit, both boys and dragonets.  It also tells of the blooming friendship between Kiron and Aken-ten, which is slowly turning to love.  And it shows the tremendous potentiality of a unit of alert, trained and willing dragons. <br />The story expands into a tale of politics and corrupted power.  Kiron finds himself with great responsibilities and willing associates, but very little ability to influence the situation.  He and his friends resort to cunning, aided by the hubris of his enemies.<br />As with most of the author's solo efforts, this novel is very linear:  everything is seen through the eyes of Kiron.  Moreover, it is short compared to the mega-novels that are so popular nowadays.  This short length does have some detrimental effects on character development, but it also reduces the amount of background material used for such development.  However, Kiron isn't always the center of the action;  the other characters -- particularly Aken-ten -- contribute greatly to the story and plot development.  Overall, the straightforward style and fast pace of this novel should interest young readers as well as older ones such as myself.<br />Highly recommended for Lackey fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of ancient civilizations, political intrigue, daring adventure, and crafty magic.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-04-28
689511:US	49390985	R3S3OWC31GEJLC	0060111461	344789932	Mixed Feelings; Short Stories	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An Exercise In Confused Emotions	Mixed Feelings (1974) is a collection of eleven early stories by the author, plus an introduction by Theodore Sturgeon. These stories are far out science fiction, dealing mostly with the effects of technology on humanity. Many would be mainstream if the subjects were acceptable to the mass market.    These stories have the vagueness and imagery of poems and, in fact, include a few examples of (intentionally) bad poetry. Stevie Weinraub is the central character in several of the stories, standing for the confused and conditioned youth of America in all their anomie. War, pollution, intolerance and social ills are the focus of other stories.    In This Writing \\"Game\\", the author lambasts the critics and explainers of literature. In Steve Weinraub and the Secret Empire, the title character loses his final connection to reality. In Two Sadnesses, a pair of childhood classics are modernized. In Naked to the Invisible Eye, a budding pitcher finds a different road to success. In f(x)=(11/15/67) x=her, a science team uses the methods of management to search for a breakthrough.    In The Ghost Writer, an artist isn't what he appears to be. In All the Last Wars At Once, warring humanity subdivides into all the possible categories until only individuality is left. In Things Go Better, the mainstream catches Stevie in Gremmage. In Wednesday, November 15, 1967, the protagonist is left alone in a decaying world. In World War II, a castaway finds a steady yet pointless job. In Lights Out, a confused writer rejects Gremmage.    As Sturgeon says in his intro, Effinger is out of his g*dd*mn mind. That is, his stories break through some sort of barrier into chaos and symbolism. Hence the similarity to poetry. However, they (purposely?) defy understanding, resembling a Rorschach card in their multiplicity of meanings.     These stories deliberately avoid the obvious. Some go down very strange byways and leave the reader confused and wondering what was the point of the story. They unsettle the emotions and stimulate the mind. Don't expect entertainment so much as enlightenment.     Recommended for anyone who wants to read outside the box.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-04-28
691384:US	49390985	R1YRJ1JPVN2WHE	0345461622	197047472	Pandora's Star	Books	5	17	21	N	N	A Bleeding Edge Space Opera	Pandora's Star (2004) is the first novel in the Commonwealth Saga duology. Sometime in the near future, after many delays, America sent the first expedition to Mars, only to find an Englishman waiting for them outside the interface to the world's first artificial wormhole. Compressed Space Transport, the company built to exploit the new technology, became the basis for the Commonwealth, which by 2380 AD has expanded to roughly four hundred lightyears in diameter.    The Commonwealth has found various sentient species among the stars and has both diplomatic and commercial relationships with two starfaring species. The Silfen look like elves, talk in riddles, and supposedly have non-mechanistic pathways among the stars. The High Angel is an artificial sentient controlling a monstrous spaceship, probably with FTL capabilities, that has outriders containing cities full of various alien species apparently collected along the way.    In this novel, Dudley Bose discovers that Dyson Alpha, one of a pair of stars surrounded by Dyson spheres, was enclosed in less than a second. Former speculations about the pair assumed a material enclosure, but only a force field could have been erected in that elapsed time. Since the stars are far outside the reach of the current CST network, the Commonwealth decides to build a spaceship with its own wormhole generator to go out and investigate the anomaly.    The Guardians of Selfhood are a militant group that are waging a war against the Starflyer, an alien that they believe traveled in the vacant arkship found on the planet Far Away. Bradley Johansson, the founder of the Guardians, has stated that the Starflyer controls the minds of the personnel of the Research Institute that is examining the arkship and that the alien has long since moved into human space to influence the public through its dupes and slaves. The Guardians broadcast a shotgun message claiming that the Starflyer is behind the move to travel to Dyson Alpha. They start working against the project and eventually try to destroy it.    Paula Myo is a Chief Inspector at the Serious Crimes Directorate. She has been hunting Bradley Johansson for one and a half centuries. It is her only unsolved case. She is dispatched to investigate the attack on the spaceship and catches many small fry, but not Bradley Johansson.    This story is reminiscent of The Mote in God's Eye. Curious humans follow an anomaly to discover a very expansionist, aggressive society isolated from the rest of the galaxy, but soon find themselves with a tiger by the tail. Moreover, crewmembers are trapped by the natives. However, this novel builds upon and surpasses the Niven & Pournelle opus in the threat level and strangeness of the aliens. Moreover, it depicts the breakout of the alien Primes into human space.    The story is written in the same multi-threaded format as the Night's Dawn Trilogy. The various characters, and their threads, sometimes are confusing. The story also builds slowly to a climax, although the ending in this volume has all the action that anyone could want. The concluding volume, Judas Unchained, should be out in 2005.    Highly recommended for Hamilton and Niven/Pournelle fans as well as anyone else who enjoys tales of strange and powerful aliens threatening human civilization.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-04-26
694044:US	49390985	R1M93A2VPKA0J1	0451459806	46620192	Covenants: A Borderlands Novel	Books	5	8	12	N	N	The Man in the Middle	Covenants is apparently the first novel in the Borderlands series.  Long ago, the land belonged to the Elves and other magicals.  Then humans came from the sea to take it, piece by piece, until all the magicals had been driven over the Border. The leader of the invading humans, and the first king, was named Iver, so the new kingdom was called Iversterre (probably meaning &quot;Iver's Land&quot;).  <br />Once the humans of Iversterre also tried to take the Borderlands, but were repelled in one stupefying counterattack by the Borderers.  Lately the Border has been disturbed by runners from Iversterre, who raid for spritewood, dragonhides and other body parts of thinking beings and sell them in Iversterre and Tural.  There is a strong inclination among some of the Borderers to invade Iversterre and take back what was once theirs.<br />In this novel, Rabbit is lost.  His troop rode out on a routine patrol and now can't find their way back to the post.  Since Rabbit is a Borderer, Captain Suidan sends him out to find the right path, so he rides up a trail taken many times before to the crest of a hill to observe the surrounding terrain.  There he finds a mountain cat, standing on his hind paws and carrying a big stick, who offers him a honeycake and eats one himself.  They have just finished eating and introducing themselves when the rest of the troop arrive.  Rabbit explains that he has just concluded a meal covenant with Lauren Faena and then the cat shows them their post just down the hills in plain sight.<br />The troop returns to the post and reports the situation to the Commander, who sends the troop back out the next day to track down the Faena.  Rabbit is promoted to Lieutenant for the occasion.  Lauren shows up at their first camp and explains that he is an embassy to King Jussan from the High Council of the Borderlands.  Commander Ebner assigns two troops to accompany Lauren to the capital at Iversly under the command of Captain Suidan and Rabbit is designatedas liaison with the Faena.<br />In this story, Rabbit's backstory slowly comes out as he is put under pressure.  He is a runaway mage apprentice who is related to two great houses in Iversterre.  He keeps saying that he is just a farmer's son, but he also keeps being targeted by assassins.  In fact, his presence causes a conspiracy against the throne to act prematurely and in open rebellion.<br />Rabbit shows an amazing ability to see others clearly, but hides things from himself.  He knows that he has talents and connections, but tries to blend in as an insignificant horse trooper.  But neither his enemies nor his friends will let him sink into the obscurity that he desires.<br />This story moves rapidly and the plots takes some unforeseen twists and turns.  Although there are times of introspection, most are interrupted by some unusual event and Rabbit is suddenly in trouble again.  Overall, the story is fun to read and hard to put down.<br />Recommended for anyone who enjoys tales of adventure and intrigue within a fantasy setting.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-04-24
696863:US	49390985	R1DB00PUBU7EUT	0451459148	568799717	The Bastard King: Scepter of Mercy, Book One (The Scepter of Mercy, Bk. 1)	Books	5	2	8	N	N	The Time of Two Kings	The Bastard King is the first novel in the Scepter of Mercy series.  King Mergus of Avornis had ruled for almost thirty years without having an heir of his own body, despite trying with six wives, the maximum allowed number.  Nonetheless, when the witch Rissa declared that the child carried by his concubine would be a boy, Mergus immediately took the pregnant Certhia as his seventh wife.  Arch-Hallow Bucco objected, calling the child a bastard, and would not let the King take the boy into the Cathedral to worship the gods.  Three days later, the church had a new Arch-Hallow and Bucco was sent to the Maze.<br />In this novel, Prince Lanius, the bastard prince, is the center of a great controversy.  After Bucco is banished, events became rather settled for a while and Lanius becomes enamored with book learning.  He even spends his spare time in the palace archives.  However, King Mergus dies when Lanius is only five years old.<br />Prince Scolopax, Mergus' brother, then takes the throne by sheer gall (he claims it and nobody says otherwise).  He sends Queen Certhia to the Maze and restores Bucco as Arch-Hallow.  He also refuses to pay tribute to the Thervings.  He has a fine and happy time until he drops dead of overindulgence after three years.<br />Arch-Hallow Bucco then becomes the head of the Regency Council as ordered by Scolopax.  Queen Certhia returns from the Maze.  Then Bucco sends Certhia back to the Maze.  Bucco calls together the army under Duke Regulus, but the Duke decides to put himself on the throne.  However, after accepting a dinner invitation from Lepturus, chief of Lanius' bodyguards, Regulus soon finds himself dining within the Maze.  Then the Thervings invade Avornis, burning and pillaging.<br />Bucco negotiates a settlement with King Dagipert of Thervingia that includes a lot of gold and the betrothal of Lanius to Dagipert's daughter.  With the contrivance of Lanius and his chief bodyguard, Queen Certhia returns from the Maze, abolishes the Regency Council, sends Bucco back to the Cathedral, takes over the Regency herself, and nullifies the betrothal.  Then the Thervings invade once again.<br />Certhia appoints Count Corvus as commander of the Arvornan army and sends his brother, Count Corax, to fetch an army of Heruls to attack the Thervings in the rear.  Commodore Grus leads a flotilla of river galleys and barges to the Herul camp to ferry them across the river.  Despite his distrust of the Heruls, Grus is prepared to load them onto the flotilla, but Count Corax treats him as a low class taxi driver and tries to draw on him;  Grus has Corax returned to the Herul's camp on the wrong side of the river.  Corvus grows bored with waiting for Corax and charges out into an ambush, barely making it back to Avornis before the Thervings arrive to besiege the town.<br />After that fiasco, Certhia orders Grus to report to the castle, but Grus ignores the order.  She then tries to have Grus punished for his defiance of her orders, but Grus claims to have never received any such order.  Thereafter, he prudently stays away from the castle.  <br />Then Lanius reaches his majority and is crowned as King, but Count Corvus denounces Lanius as a bastard and declares himself king.  Grus is invited to lead the remaining military forces against the usurper.  Grus does reorganize and lead the army against Corvus, but he also has himself declared King along with King Lanius.  Now Avornis has two kings, but all the power is in the hands of Grus.<br />In this story, Lanius rails against his fate, but recognizes that Grus could have assured his dynasty by shortening Lanius by a head.  Instead, Grus marries his daughter Sosia to Lanius and becomes his father-in-law.  Grus does send Queen Certhia back to the Maze after she tries to kill him with a particularly nasty sending.<br />In many respects, this story is a parallel with the history of Justinian and Belisarius.  Unlike the historical pair, Grus gains the upper hand prior to Lanius reaching his majority and thereafter protects Lanius from other conspiracies.  Thus, Lanius is never maimed and exiled as Justinian was.  Moreover, unlike Justinian, Lanius knows that he is overreached by Grus and never conspires against him.<br />Both kings, and certain other characters, occasionally have their dreams interrupted by a visit from the Banished One.  While they cannot withstand him during the dream, each fully remembers their dreams afterwards.  Although he is exceeding intelligent, the Banished One has a very low opinion of human mentality and doesn't watch his words when he gets excited.  Lanius and Grus actually begin to set their policies according to the type of threats issued by the dethroned god.<br />The author has written this story with more than a little biting sarcasm and irony.  One of Queen Certhia's faults is her acceptance of the worthiness of the aristocracy and the degeneracy of the peasants.  Such attitudes permeate the nobility.  On the other hand, the peasants have many reasons to distrust and fear the nobility.  They have also learned to fear all armies, whether friendly or enemy.  Since Grus is the grandson of a peasant, he tries to change both the nobility and the army, but he probably won't live long enough to complete the job.<br />The story is full of soldiery humor, particularly between Grus and Nicator, his second in command.  However, Grus' father, Crex the Unbearable, a retired guardsman, is even earthier in his opinions (and tastes).  Grus later acquires an army commander, General Hirundo, who is a disrespectful (but totally loyal) clown as well as being a superb subordinate (Grus is his own field marshall).<br />Highly recommended for anyone who enjoys tales of political intrigue with both naval and military action.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-04-22
697613:US	49390985	R1J32V0XZUSRNB	074325998X	759058813	For Us, The Living: A Comedy of Customs	Books	5	7	9	N	N	The Heinlein Manifesto	For Us, the Living (2004) was the first novel written by Heinlein, but remained unpublished during his lifetime. It is reminiscent of Nowlan's Armageddon 2419 A.D. in its plot, with the hero losing consciousness and awaking decades later. In this case, Perry Nelson blacks out following a fall in 1939 and awakens in 2186. He finds himself is a society that corresponds to his own in many way, yet is strangely different.    In 1919, the year that Armageddon 2419 A.D. was published, science fiction was a medium for technological ideas and adventure. By 1939, however, the field was changing to portray the effects of technology on people rather than describing the technology itself. This trend was started primarily by the stories of Don A. Stuart -- John W. Campbell's alter ego -- and became even more influential when Campbell became the editor of Astounding magazine.    In this novel, the author presents a utopian future that is quite different from 1939, including many technological and social changes. His presentation fits right into the new approach to science fiction emerging at Astounding and elsewhere. However, the novel itself didn't sell, primarily because it lacks adventure and excitement. Nonetheless, a number of shorter works incorporating these ideas were sold to the SF magazines and later became the basis of his Future History series.    The author developed an action-oriented style in these tales. He also created a new type of science fiction story: portrayal of the workplaces of the future. In The Roads Must Roll, the author wrote of the men who built and maintained the passenger-carrying conveyor belts of the future. In The Green Hills of Earth, he wrote of the jetmen who kept the engines running on the interplanetary ships. In many ways, he became his character Rhysling, but in prose rather than poem. He was also the Kipling of his generation in more than one respect.    This novel portrays a time when spaceflight is just beginning to develop. In Requiem(1940), the author presents a view of a time when moonflight is common (and introduces D.H. Harriman). The author retroactively describes the development of moonflight in The Man Who Sold the Moon (1950).     After writing this novel, the author only wrote for the magazines for several years, although many of the short stories and serials were later published as books. Rocket Ship Galileo, his first novel published orginally as a book, came out in 1947 as a juvenile and was followed in the next year by Space Cadet. However, 1948 also saw the original book publication of an adult SF novel, Beyond This Horizon.    Rocket Ship Galileo is not a Future History story, but contains an alternate history of the first moonflight. As did The Man Who Sold the Moon, it takes place in a time when orbital flight is routine. It also introduces the nuclear propulsion used in the later juveniles.    Beyond This Horizon is a post-utopian novel and thus is a kind of sequel to For Us, the Living. It contains further technological and social changes. It also features a man from the past, although as a minor character. However, it mostly portrays the utopia from the point of view of contemporary characters and it contains plenty of adventure and excitement as well. Overall, it shows how far the author advanced in his craftsmanship in less than a decade.    Highly recommended for Heinlein fans and for anyone else who is interested in the history of science fiction.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-04-21
698919:US	49390985	R3CZSD8SDGHWM1	0380818396	100017387	Gods Old and Dark (The World Gates, Book 3)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Conclusion for Now	Gods Old and Dark is the third (and concluding) novel in the World Gates series, following The Wreck of Heaven.  In the previous volume, Baanraak starts forcing Holly to die and be reborn so as to shape her personality into the Night Watch pattern.  He catches her once without the Vodi necklace and she was almost lost forever.  Meanwhile, Lauren finds a secret message in the notebooks and learns that her parents had intended Molly to be her protector while she herself brought magic back to the Earth and to the dead worlds up the line.<br />In this novel, Molly is busy exterminating Night Watch teams and Lauren is creating conduits for the magic to flow back up the world lines.  Aril, the Master of the Night Watch, notices the magic returning to the Earth and messily terminates all his fieldmasters for overlooking this development. He then promotes their assistants to replace them and provides specific instructions for the situation.  He also dispatches assassins to track down Lauren and sends his assistant, Rekkathav, to observe the operation.<br />After Lauren is attacked by the Night Watch during a downworld foray and again within her own home, the Cat Creek Sentinels suddenly notice that Lauren is violating Council policy.  A couple of hard-liners want to terminate her activities in a permanent manner, but the rest vote to wait and see.  It does help that Lauren has an old god on her side who is capable of great havoc using the new influx of magic.<br />In this story, Lauren and the Cat Creek Sentinels learn the secret of immortality and the pain thereof.  One Sentinel gets her first taste of combat and very nearly goes berserk.  The FBI office in Charlotte performs a good service for the Cat Creek Sentinels.  And Baanraak is ambushed by Molly and suffers a split personality.<br />This volume provides a conclusion of sorts, but the story continues past the end of the book.  Maybe the author will return to this universe some day, for it has the potential for manyother stories.  In the meanwhile, we will have a new fantasy to read in 2005: Talyn.<br />Highly recommended for Lisle fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of high magic, interesting societies and complex relationships.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-04-20
702404:US	49390985	R2KLEQEOJCQ2NS	0756401801	601936049	Survival (Species Imperative #1)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A Matter of Biology	Survival is the first novel in the Species Imperative series.  In the early decades of the twenty-first century, humanity expanded into the Solar system, establishing a permanent presence on Mars, the Jovian moons and elsewhere.  A hundred and fifty years after the first child was born on Mars, the stars reached mankind;  a non-Human probe arrived in the Solar system with an invitation to join from the Interspecies Union.  It provided information on building and maintaining transects to bypass normal space.  Over the next hundred years, humanity migrated to some three hundred extra-Solar worlds and used the new technology obtained from the IU to repair much of the ecological damage done to Earth in the prior centuries.<br />In this novel, MacKenzie Connor, Ph.D., is a biologist and coadministrator of the Norcoast Salmon Research Facility located within Castle Inlet.  Mac and her partner, Emily Mamani Sarmiento, are monitoring Emily's newly improved DNA Tracer from Field Station Six on the Tannu River.  After six days of boredom, a Chinook salmon run suddenly appears on the screen.  Everything is going well until Emily detects a very large presence swimming in a diving suit among the salmon.<br />Field Station Six is graced with a visit from Brymn, the first member of the Dhryn species to visit Earth, and his diplomatic escort.  After the introductions, Mac orders Brymn to leave the station.  As he is leaving with the Dhryn, the escort gives Mac an official envelope.  Shortly thereafter, another craft arrives to take Mac and Emily back to the Base.<br />Brymn has come for assistance in solving some mysterious disappearances among the worlds of the Naralax transect, which he has associated with the lifeless worlds of the Chasm.  He will only talk with her when he is reasonably sure that no one can overhear them.  He gets her to promise not to tell anyone else about their discussions, but she includes Emily as a matter of course.<br />Later she awakens in her office toa total electrical blackout.  Despite the multiply redundant systems, all power in the Base has been lost.  Moreover, there is something in the office with Mac, making strange skittering noises.  After scaring it off, she finds slime paths over her floor, walls and even the ceiling.  She chases the thing away from her office and through the Base and over the walkway to land.  Over and over she hears it, but can't see it.  From the shore she tracks it inland to an empty clearing, which nevertheless contains an invisible ship which carries the thing away in a blast of jetfire.  When she returns to the Base, she finds that Emily is gone, presumably kidnapped after a violent struggle.<br />This story describes her encounters with an alien species who refuse to study biology, an overgovernment that is chasing invisible aliens, and the invisible aliens themselves.  She flees to Haven, the Dhryn home world, in a Dhryn vessel, almost dying of thirst due to the ineptness of the crew.  Once there, she finds the Dhryn to be both frustrating and fascinating.<br />Throughout the novel occur portent scenes:  green rain dissolving all forms of life and mouths gathered to drink the green liquid.  Is this what caused the devastation of the Chasm?  If so, apparently it is still active and creating the disappearances.<br />Highly recommended for Czerneda fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of alien species with really different ways of thought and action.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-04-18
703264:US	49390985	R34TG9F0S5V59E	0765306298	407069479	New Spring: The Novel (Wheel of Time)	Books	5	9	17	N	N	The Backstory of Moiraine	New Spring is a prequel to the Wheel of Time series. A decade before [[ASIN:0812511816 The Eye of the World]], the Lady Moiraine Damodred is a niece of the King of Cairhien, but she is also an Accepted of the White Tower    Together with her closest friend Siuan Sanche, she is on duty in the Amyrlin's sitting room when Gitara Moroso, the Keeper of the Chronicles, has a Foretelling of the Dragon Reborn taking his first breath on the slope of Dragonmount and then drops dead. Tamra Ospenya, the Amyrlin Seat of the Aes Sedai, warns them to tell no one and dismisses them from their watch.    In this novel, the Amyrlin sends out all the Accepted to record the names of the babies born in the vicinity of Dragonmount within the previous few days and, on the first day, Moiraine and Siuan are assigned together to gather such names in one of the camps. However, Siuan arranges for her to stay behind on the second day to rewrite the nearly illegible lists and, of course, Siuan also has to stay behind to help her. Despite Moiraine's advantage in schooling, Siuan is much better at solving puzzles and has realized that they will have a better chance of discovering the identity of the Dragon Reborn from the lists than by taking names in the field.    The Dragon Reborn becomes as obsession with Moiraine; she even has nightmares about the coming war against the Dark One. Siuan shares in her obession and her nightmares, although to a lesser extent. They start exchanging possibilities and keeping records in small books which they keep on their persons while awake. They make secret plans for their search after they pass their trials.    After they become Aes Sedai, however, Moiraine and Siuan find themselves unable to leave the Tower for any extended length of time. They are assigned duties which keep them busy and close to the Tower. They know that others are searching, but they are frustrated in their own attempts. Then they discover evidence that the Black Ajah is also looking.    In this story, Moiraine finds her vocation in searching for the Dragon Unborn. She also meets Lan Mandragoran, who has a problem of his own to solve and distrusts Aes Sedai. Siuan gains access to the Blue Ajah's Eyes and Ears and looks for signs of the Dragon Reborn.    If you have not previously read the Wheel of Time series, start with this one (or whatever is the earliest prequel). It fills in much of the backstory of the Aes Sedai immediately prior to the first volume in the Wheel of Time. While the side story herein provides hints about Lan and the Borderers, the full history of Malkier and Lan's ancestors is worthy of another prequel. Moreover, the story of the Dragon himself is barely mentioned, so that is another possible prequel.    Highly recommended for Jordan fans and for anyone who enjoys tales of high intrique, daring youngsters, and complicated magic.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-04-17
706260:US	49390985	R2GE83LRT552AQ	0441011632	572870865	Nightingale's Lament (Nightside, Book 3)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	To Sing of Sorrow	Nightingale's Lament (2004) is the third urban fantasy novel in the Nightside series, following [[ASIN:0441011136 Agents of Light and Darkness]]. In the previous volume, Taylor found the Unholy Grail for the Vatican and thereby raised a siege of the Nightside by angels both high and low. His reputation has gone off the scale and the resulting fee was large enough to lease an upscale office, hire Cathy (see [[ASIN:0441010652 Something From the Nightside]]) as his secretary, and install computers with a superiority complex to take care of the routine stuff.    In this novel, Taylor comes across more as Simon Templar --- AKA the Saint -- than as a tough private eye. First he is persuaded by Walker to work on a case for Prometheus, Inc., generator of twelve percent of the power used within the Nightside. Company equipment is being sabotaged by an unknown --and undetectable -- person or thing. Prometheus is owned and operated by an old acquaintance, Vincent Kraemar, the Mechanic. Walker wants results and Taylor definitely produces some big results, paying off an old debt in the bargain. However, Walker is not really happy with the way Taylor solves the problem.    After that case, while hanging out in Strangefellows and avoiding Walker, Taylor is approached by a man who believes that his daughter has fallen into bad company. Under the name Rossignol -- Nightingale -- she has been acquiring a reputation of her own, but recently she has changed, breaking off relations with friends and family, never answering phone calls or letters, and spending all her time in the Caliban Club where she sings. Moreover, her singing has changed; now she sings only sad songs and her listeners are so moved that some have committed suicide shortly after leaving her show.    All these changes started when Ross signed a new contract with Mr. and Mrs. Cavendish. The client wants Taylor to check into her situation and help her if such assistance is necessary. Cathy confirms the client's portrayalof Ross' career and Alex tells him more about her life and the Cavendishes.    Taylor visits the Caliban Club and talks to Ian, Ross' roadie. Then he visits Rossignol herself and later catches a show. He can't find any indication of magical influence, but Ross is obviously depressed and distracted. During her performance, moreover, someone commits suicide, splashing blood and brains over her shoes.    In this story, Taylor investigates the Cavendishes, including tracking down another promising diva who was previously under contract to them, but disappeared without a trace the previous year. He drops by the Night Times to find out the gossip from the newsies, especially the managing editor (and owner) Julian Advent. He even pays a visit to the Cavendishes, where he is very ill received.    Taylor has always had a compassionate streak, but Rossignol somehow inflames it into an obsession. However he has to do it, Taylor is determined to solve Ross' problem. He even goes so far as to involve the Dead Boy.    Be warned that the author has gone overboard with obscure references. Perhaps not knowing about Bananarama tribute bands is a good thing. However, one hopes that the reader gets the blind Pew wordplay; it is practically in the public domain.    Highly recommended for Green fans and for anyone else who enjoys fantasy noir detective novels with a touch of camp.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-04-14
712246:US	49390985	RHK68RDPAYAJP	0446531057	133134794	Mystic Warrior (Bronze Canticles Trilogy)	Books	4	7	12	N	N	In Your Dreams	Mystic Warrior is the first novel in the Bronze Canticles series.  In a world far from our own, five Dragonkings rule through a theocracy, the Pir Drakonis.  At the same time, the seven lords of the Faery fight for domination in a centuries old war.  Yet twelve kings of the Goblins reign supreme over their people.  Three worlds with a shared terrain and a shared destiny, entirely separated, except in the dreams of certain individuals, who are usually mad.<br />In this novel, Galen Arvad is a human blacksmith who has strange dreams at night and hears the voices of crafted things during the day.  He fears for his sanity and avoids the Election, where a dragon staff selects the mad for collection into the peace of the dragonkings.  But he is found out by the guardians and marched to the square to stand with his wife and her family.  When the staff is brought forth, Galen is proved to be one of the Elect.<br />Dwynwyn is a faery of the Royal Servant class and a Seeker.  She has been charged by Queen Tatyana with finding a new truth to protect the city of Qestardan and its people from Lord Phaeon, who has brought overwhelming might against them.  She has visions of a tall non-Fae man who has no gift, but may be the savior of all her people.  But she sees him only in dreams and they can't understand each other's speech.<br />Mimic is a goblin engineer fourth class in the service of Dong Mahaj-Megong.  While serving under chief engineer Lirry, Mimic dreams of a man and books.  One day he finds a working machine (a clock).  Lirry immediately claims the device for himself, but only Mimic can keep it working.  Lirry uses this working device to climb to the top echelon of society, with Mimic riding on his coat tails (or, to be more precise, under his cloak).<br />In this story, these three people, and others, meet each other in their dreams and sometimes help each other.  Of course, one usually doesn't bring back a magical object from a dream, but Galen does.  Moreover, swordsstart coming to him when needed.<br />Galen also keeps meeting Tragget, the Lord Inquisitor, in his dreams.  Tragget travels to Benyn to find Galen and, quite by accident, scares him into the hands of the Pir Guardians, leading to Galen's Election.  Tragget learns that Galen has acquired the power to change reality through his dream experiences and wants the same power to overthrow the dragonkings.  At least, Tragget sometimes wants to overthrow the dragonkings, yet other times he wants other things, usually when faced with his mother.  He just can't decide what he wants.<br />Let's make one thing perfectly clear:  Galen is a little bit crazy.  At least, he is into heavy denial.  He thinks everything is a big mistake and can be cleared up if only someone will listen to him.  Very heavy denial!<br />By the end of the book, the course of events in all three worlds has been disrupted, but the outcome is very uncertain.  The madmen have inserted a strong dose of chaos into all three societies.  Stay tuned for the next installment.<br />Recommended for Hickman fans and for anyone else who enjoys complex tales of madness, chaos, and strong determination in a fantasy setting.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-04-10
714972:US	49390985	R1WHD4ND9KP8XR	0756401763	366527408	Space Stations	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Wide Assortment of Station Stories	Space Stations is an anthology of stories about outposts in the void.  It contains fourteen stories written specifically for this volume.<br />In The Battle of Space Fort Jefferson by Timothy Zahn, the Park Service fights invaders with obsolescence and neglect.  In Redundancy by Alan Dean Foster, an AI is smarter than expected.  In Dancers of the Gate by James Cobb, two wormhole stations are saved by a shared interest in big band music.  In Mikeys by Robert J. Sawyer, the support team stumbles into an artifact.  In The Franchise by Julie E. Czerneda, refugees from the Quill menace reopen a lost station.<br />In Follow the Sky by Pamela Sargent, a ward of the state gets an urge to roam.  In Auriga's Streetcar by Jean Rabe, a salvage operator finds evidence of aliens on an abandoned station.  In Falling Star by Brendan DuBois, an ex-astronaut returns to his hometown to be met with antipathy.  In Countdown by Russell Davis, the station commander has stayed behind while the computer counts down to auto-destruct.  In Serpents on the Station by Michael Stackpole, a Catholic priest finds herself among alien hedonists.<br />In First Contact Cafe by Irene Radford, the station manager encounters a new type of alien from Texas.  In Orbital Base Fear by Eric Kotani, the support team warns of a storm, but the primary team tries to land anyway.  In Black Hole Station by Jack Williamson, a man searches for his father on an abandoned research station.  In Station Spaces by Gregory Benford, the team terraforming Luna merge humans and computers into something different and dangerous.<br />Although the common theme in these stories is space stations, the authors have approached the subject from many directions.  Two of the stories -- Mikeys and Orbital Base Fear -- actually have the same initial scenario, but diverge rapidly thereafter.  In Falling Star, the space station is not even evident except in the background.<br />Not one of these stories is a dud.  The Battle of Space Fort Jefferson is filled with subtle humor.  Redundancy is a real tear jerker.  Mikeys is a winner of an underdog story.  Any reader of science fiction will surely find something to like in these tales.<br />One of the best stories, in my opinion, is Dancers of the Gate, for its high tech ambiance and its offbeat solution to a problem.  However, this story has a technical blooper, a geosynchronous station above the planetary north pole.  See my guide on Orbits in Science Fiction for the reason why this is not possible.<br />Highly recommended for anybody who enjoys science fiction tales about living and working in space.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-04-08
716658:US	49390985	R23DTDPK0T5MS2	0743471644	76699286	There Will Be Dragons (Council Wars)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	There Will Be War	There Will Be Dragons (2003) is the first SF novel in The Council Wars series. The Earth has been at peace for a thousand years since the AI Wars and the population is down to a billion people and shrinking. The ecological recovery project is ongoing under the supervision of Mother, the distributed operating system of the Net. The energy demands for ordinary usage are down, only requiring fourteen of the terawatt generators, although a surplus is being stored for future use in the Wolf 359 terraforming project.    The population has engaged in all sorts of manipulations of body form, including body sculpting, genetic modification, Change via teleportation, or Transfer to a nanite cloud. Such manipulations have also been applied to plants and animals. One such genetic mod created the Elves long ago.    In this novel, the only remaining governmental body, the Terrestrial Council for Information Strategy and Management, is called into special session by Paul Bowman, who proposes rationing of energy to force humanity to have to work (on what is unclear). Work is, in itself, liberating and should lead to an increase in population, thereby saving humanity from decline and extinction. A majority of those present rejects his agenda.    Sheida Ghorbani recognizes the fascist nature of Bowman's approach and suspects something underhanded is likely to happen to the Council members who oppose him. She solicits advice from Edmund Talbot, a reenactor and student of military history, and takes the advised precautions. Unfortunately, they are only partial successful and one of her supporters is killed at the next Council meeting.    Yet Sheida's group manages to recover all their Keys, talismans allowing them to vote on the Council, in the retreat from the Council chamber. Bowman's group starts attacking their sanctuary with energy bolts, so Sheida has her supporters shut down the energy web and then physically occupy the power plants to deny them to Bowman's group. Then they startlocking out subprograms in the Net.    When the populace is denied access to the energy web and the Net, people begin to die. Scientists in the photosphere of the Sun are vaporized in an instant. Those investigating the magma underlying the continents are crushed almost as fast. Vessels and people fall out of the sky or are suddenly without power in the middle of an ocean.    Those individuals who survive the initial shutdown are still faced with starvation. Food was grown in the central plains and distributed via the Net. Now the distribution system is gone and the available food supply is minimal in most locations. People lucky enough to be within a reasonable distance of a primitive living area, reenactors or anarchia, gather whatever supplies and equipment are on hand and start walking.    In this story, the reenactors within Raven's Mill gather together under the leadership of Edmund Talbot and start preparing for an influx on refugees. They create a familiarization program that will provide experience in several key areas, including military skills. Since the Net is still prohibiting explosives, such skills are with various forms of clubs and edged weapons.    This story is a post-utopian tale, similar to Heinlein's Beyond This Horizon. The discontented want to change society to suit their own taste and are willing to kill others to get their way. One of the first problems created by the shutdown is the formation of bandit gangs. However, the long term problem is feudalism.    The story also has some of the flavor of Heinlein's Tunnel in the Sky. Individuals from a highly advanced technological society are suddenly left to their own devices and whatever primitive devices that they can build. But this story has a nucleus of hobbyists who play at living in technologically primitive societies, some of whom are smiths with their own forges and other tools. On the other hand, the majority of the populace in this story has not had survival training prior to the shutdown.    The survivors include Daneh Ghorbani, ex-wife of Talbot, and their daughter Rachel as well as Herzer Hertrick, a friend of Rachel and ex-patient of Daneh. For the most part, the Elves are neutral in this conflict, but Bast the Wood Elf insists on being involved. Angus Peterka the Dwarf is also supporting the people of Raven's Mill with refined metals from his reclaimed mine.    This story depicts the expansion and defense of the town of Raven's Mill. The greater struggle is continuing and could go either way. Thus, there is plenty of opportunities for sequels; Emerald Sea will be released in July and Against the Tide has been written.    Highly recommended for Ringo (and Heinlein) fans and for anyone else who enjoys tale of primitive combat and local politics in a fantastic (but possible) setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-04-07
717133:US	49390985	R3J1NVIA9WWNMH	0451459709	857336762	Patriot's Stand: A Battletech Novel (Mechwarrior: Dark Age, No. 9)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Riding Rough Over the Militia	Patriot's Stand is the ninth novel in the Mechwarrior Dark Age series.  The HPG interstellar communications grid has been down for two years.  The effect on Alkalurops has been minimal so far.  The lack of current commodity information has disrupted trade somewhat, but the loss of contact with the Republic bureaucracy has offset this.<br />In this novel, Alkalurops learns the negative side of loss of communications.  They are invaded and have no way of calling for help.  Allabad, the capital, dropped out of the net a week ago and then messages began arriving about BattleMechs and tanks taking over towns and hijacking Mechs.  Now the invaders have reached the Gleann Mor Valley and are approaching Falkirk.  Grace O'Malley, the town mayor, and her militia are about to get their baptism of fire.<br />The battle is a disaster.  The invaders detect their ambush from over a kilometer away and maneuver to directly attack their modified Industrial and Agricultural Mechs.  The only thing that works right is the Navajo pits and traps;  they capture a hovertank.  Only the arrival of another dozen worker Mechs from the Donga River Valley saves the Falkirk militia from total defeat.<br />In the town meeting after the battle, the leaders agree that their defense efforts were inadequate.  However, they have a tradition of protecting themselves and decide that they need to learn the new methods of fighting.  They raise a collection and sent Grace O'Malley, Chato Bluewater and Jobe Kang to Allabad to coordinate with the central government.  <br />When they arrive in Allabad, the Gleann Mor Valley representatives find that the Governor and Legate had been assassinated prior to the raid and that attempts to form a government are bogged down with endless talk.  Grace informs the ad hoc council of the Gleann Mor Valley plans and then books passage offworld to hire instructors for their militia.<br />In this story, Grace and her friends discover just how difficult it is to mount an adequate defense against a well-equipped aggressor.  None of the mercenary units will provide instructors, but will contract for their defense for an appropriate fee.  However, Grace does find a few unemployed mercenaries who, for personal reasons, are willing to act as a training cadre.<br />This story illustrates the difference between professional soldiers and local militia.  Of course, the professionals are better trained and often have better equipment.  However, the locals are highly motivated and eager to learn;  after all, they have more to lose than the professionals.  The locals also have knowledge of the terrain and the support of the populace.<br />A key factor in this story is the Leader, the man who initiated the whole conflict.  The Leader is a caricature of the nasty villain, with all the worst aspects of Adolf Hitler or Josef Stalin and none of the strengths.  Not at all adverse to doing his own killing and very susceptible to sycophancy, the Leader creates enemies everywhere he goes and surrounds himself with incompetents.<br />Once again, the author proves his ability to involve the reader in a military tale.  He also does a good job of depicting local politics.  He adds a touch of novelty and realism to the Battletech universe.<br />Highly recommended for Battletech and Moscoe fans and for anyone else who enjoys highly realistic tales of future military actions.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-04-06
717707:US	49390985	R26YTMND4X5DVR	0743471776	395123627	The Reaches	Books	5	15	15	N	N	An Age of Re-discovery	The Reaches is an omnibus edition of the Privateer series, containing Igniting the Reaches, Through the Breach, and Fireships.  In the far future, humans have spread throughout a great volume of space.  But then came the Collapse and mankind lost contact with everything beyond the orbit of Pluto.  Now mankind is beginning a new age of expansion into the galaxy, re-discovering lost worlds, races and treasures.<br />The North American Federation and the Southern Cross are becoming rich from new colonies and trading posts among the stars.  Other nations have also sent out trading ships to gain some of these riches.  The colonists on Venus are eager to participate in this treasure hunt and send out their own ships.<br />One of the most lucrative trade items are Molt slaves.  The Molts are an alien race that moved into human space after the Collapse.  They have a form of genetic memory and many can operate the pre-Collapse systems found on the abandoned worlds.  Molts slaves are obtained from other Molts who sell to the human traders in return for insignificant trinkets.<br />In Igniting the Reaches, the Venerians send out a flotilla of three ships to the planet Salute.  Upon landing, they find only a single man in the Southern compound;  the others have hastily evacuated when they were sighted.  The Venerians load the 98 Molt slaves found in the compound and takeoff for the world Virginia, a Fed colony.<br />In Through the Breach, the Venerians take a flotilla toward the Breach, a dangerous corridor to another spacetime.  On the way, the commander puts down a conspiracy and executes a nobleman.  After a terrifying passage through the Breach, the Venerians find themselves in a region that has been unvisited since the Collapse.<br />In Fireships, the Feds start confiscating Venerian ships to support an invasion of the planet.  When this news reaches Venus, the Governor retaliates by issuing Commissions of Redress -- i.e., Letters of Marque -- to the parties hurt by the Federation action.  She also authorizes a punitive expedition to retrieve the captured ships.<br />These novels are loosely based on the exploits of Sir Francis Drake, although some events are based on those of other English mariners during that period.  The starships are crude craft compared to the pre-Collapse vessels, with rough hulls built around millennium old electronics and hand wrought engines.  They are somewhat reminiscent of the starships in Smith's Henry Martyn, but not quite as primitive.<br />The geopolitics and psychological perspective of these novels are brutal and pragmatic.  Although religion greatly influences the lives of these characters, their beliefs are harsh and merciless.  Slavery is commonplace on Earth, although less so on Venus, and the populace of both worlds view Molts as less than human.  In these respects, this series accurately reflects the worldview of the Elizabethan period.<br />Recommended for Drake fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of adventure with a realistic viewpoint.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-04-06
717758:US	49390985	R2RTDT7BNAE6IT	0451459717	473285609	Consequences: A Retrieval Artist Novel	Books	5	10	13	N	N	A Story of the Tainted	Consequences (2004) is the third novel in the Retrieval Artist series, following [[ASIN:0451459342 Extremes]]. In the previous volume, Miles Flint discovered that a murder during the Armstrong Marathon was committed by a psychopathic Disappeared. When she fled the Moon, he chased her in Paloma's yacht and caught up while she was delayed in destroying a space cop ship. In the ensuing encounter, they shot each other, but Flint survived.    Meanwhile, Noelle DeRicci had also learned the real identity of the murderer and discovered the plot to release a deadly virus into the Armstrong Dome. She managed to quarantine the Marathon before the virus could spread to the Dome itself and thus saved thousands of lives.    In this novel, DeRicci has been promoted to Assistant Chief of Detectives and is assigned to a murder case with political implications. She discovers that Flint has a connection with the case and goes alone to talk with him. Flint refuses to discuss his professional relationships with the victims, but offers to work on the case as a detective for his usual fees. DeRicci declines this offer, due more to budget problems than otherwise.    After DeRicci departs, Flint remembers his efforts to retrieve Carolyn Lahiri for her parents after she has been pardoned. Unlike most Disappeared, she had been fleeing a human government. She and four other college students had joined the rebels in the civil wars on Etae, an alien world that had been invaded by other aliens for its resources and later settled by humans. Ten years before, the rebels had conquered the planet and established an unaligned human government. Now they are negotiating for inclusion into the Earth Alliance and the talks are being held in Armstrong.    While investigating Carolyn's parents, Flint had inserted taps into their security system. Using his backdoor, he viewed the crime scene and then checked the log files. Although most of the relevant logs had been scrambled, one redundant backup file showsthe actual murder. The act had been committed by a hired assassin using killing enhancements not detectable by standard weapon scans.    In this story, Flint searches for the assassin, but DeRicci soon finds herself dealing with the political situation. Anatolya Dobryn, the Butcher of Etae, is the Etae representative to the negotiating session. The Earth Alliance diplomats are biased against admission of Etae into the alliance, so Armstrong has been chosen for the conference just to inconvenience the Etae delegation. However, this inconvenience turns into riots and deadly violence against the Etae party. Then a former Etaen settler escalates the violence to disaster level.    This story shows Dobryn as a talented propagandist who has only done what she considered to be necessary to achieve justice. It is surely no accident that her name invokes Balkan associations, for the Etae situation strongly resembles that of Bosnia. As the author points out, most governments were founded in violence -- as was the United States -- but the rebels later changed their image to that of peacemakers. How, then, should successful revolutionaries be judged, as butchers or heroes?    Highly recommended for Rusch fans and for anyone else who enjoys police procedurals with good characterization and unexpected plot twists.  If anyone has not previously read this series, the initial volume is [[ASIN:0451458885 The Disappeared]].    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-04-06
717982:US	49390985	RQUJ8LYREMXQJ	0451459563	449126397	The Chernagor Pirates (Scepter of Mercy)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Bogged Down in Chernagor	The Chernagor Pirates is the second novel in The Scepter of Mercy series, following The Bastard King.  In the previous volume, King Dagipert of Thervingia died and his son preferred peace and prayer to war;  the years of Therving invasions have ended.  Of course, soon thereafter hundreds of thralls cross over the Stura River to Avornis under the orders of the Banished One, but they just mill around and none of the wizards know why.<br />King Grus had family problems, especially when Estrilda discovered that he had been having an affair with the witch Alca.  To appease his wife, Grus banished Alca from the city.  Not much later, some of the thralls got lose and tried to kill Estrilda.  Grus saved her life and Estrilda soon forgave him for his extramarital affair.  <br />Grus also had problems with his son Ortalis, who has a sadistic streak.  He had been abusing the maid servants, despite some heavy punishments.  Grus decided to marry off Ortalis to some suitable lady to calm him down.  However, when Grus suggested to Lepturus, King Lanius' chief bodyguard, that he might betroth his daughter to Ortalis, the offer was firmly rejected.  Lepturus chose to be exiled to the Maze rather than have his daughter marry Ortalis.<br />In this novel, Grus begins to suspect problems among the Chernagors and consults with Lanius.  Soon thereafter, a delegation comes from the Chernagor city-state of Nishevatz, requesting assistance in putting down a rebellion against Prince Vsevolod lead by his son, Prince Vasilko.  Prince Vsevolod has evidence that the Banished One is assisting the rebels.  Grus rides out with the Avornan army to help put down the rebellion, but, as they near the city-state, Grus finds that the Chernagors have started without him.<br />While Grus is assaulting Chernagor fortifications, Lanius receives the ambassador of Prince Ulash of Yozgat, a Menteshe lord and vassal of the Banished One.  Lanius wins a battle of insults and then learns that Prince Ulash wants histhralls back.  Lanius refuses and the ambassador threatens war as he departs.<br />Grus lays siege to Nishevatz.  He tries to sneak men in the city using a hidden tunnel, but the defenders ambush them.  He tries a direct assault on the walls and is repulsed.  Then an army of Chernagors from another city-state appears and charges the Avornan lines.  The Avornans defeat that group as well as a sally from the city, but Grus decides that he doesn't have enough men to take the city and returns to Avornis.<br />In this story, Grus tries several times to retake Nishevatz, but various problems interfere with his plans.  Among other things, the Chernagors raid the coast and rivers of Avornis.  Then the Menteshe invade again.<br />Although Lanius stills wishes that he was sole king, he starts to cooperate in active ways with Grus, including exiling a baron to the Maze for violation of the land grabbing laws while Grus is tied up in Chernagor.  However, Lanius has learned the joys of extramarital affairs and is about to learn that kings can hide little from the gossip mill.  At least Grus won't be able to take the high moral ground when he finds out.<br />Aside from the extramarital affairs, both Grus and Lanius have been doing well in keeping Avornis free from the Banished One.  The dethroned god has become even more angry as they resist his efforts.  Both Grus and Lanius are thinking more often about the Scepter of Mercy.<br />Highly recommended for Chernenko fans and for anyone who enjoys tales of realistic intrigue and naval/military actions within a fantasy setting.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-04-06
720798:US	49390985	R2AGEV3HCL7BG	0765304805	486311555	Hunters of the Dark Sea	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Monster of the Deeps	Hunters of the Dark Sea is an alternate world novel set in the early nineteenth century.  The United States has gone to war against the mother country once again due to the British practice of stopping American ships on the high seas and impressing sailors from their crews.  After the war began, the British started taking ships as well as crews.  Moreover, the British have issued Letters of Marque, commissioning privateers to take American ships.<br />In this novel, the whaler Reliant has been away from Nantucket for two years and the crew is about ready to mutiny against their arrogant Captain and his vicious Second Mate.  Ethan Swain, the First Mate, is caught between the crew and the Captain, too aware of his checkered past to risk any charge of mutiny.  However, a planted weapon and a crooked judgment against one of his own boat crew triggers a confrontation that leads the accused thief being shot and falling overboard.  Ethan dives into the water after the man, despite the numerous sharks attracted by the blood and offal from the ongoing whale butchery.  Although the sharks get the accused thief, Ethan exposes the rigged search and gets the Captain to brig the treacherous Second Mate.<br />At about the same time, the science ship Brown-Eyed Sue is anchored off Easter Island when a dying man washes ashore.  From the condition of his body, the man apparently has been injected with a necrotic venom and is literally falling apart as they try to save his life.  Professor Bullock and his daughter Katherine are on the ship to perform an update of his previous sperm whale survey conducted 16 years past, but Professor Bullock is also charged with investigating tales and incidences regarding a deadly monster in the sea.  From the natives on Easter Island, the Professor learns that the thing they call Death-In-the-Water first appeared in the area about the time that a falling star splashed into the ocean nearby.<br />Jonah McAfee is a pirate who has unfinished business with Ethan Swain.  He experiences an attack by a rogue sperm whale and recovers an eviscerated sailor who was taken from the Brown-Eyed Sue by the monster.  McAfee sees the monster as an opportunity for wealth beyond his wildest dreams and sails after the Brown-Eyed Sue.<br />In this story, something has come from outer space, is living in the sea, and has acquired an appetite for men.  Sounds like a combination of Campbell's Who Goes There? and Well's War of the Worlds, with maybe a touch of Anthony's Spider Legs.  This story also has a enraged captain swearing to hunt down a rogue sperm whale, much like Melville's Moby Dick.  However, this story has some anachronistic aspects.  <br />The story takes place about a decade prior to Charles Darwin sailing to the same area in the HMS Beagle.  Darwinian theories produced the notion of extraterrestrial evolution as a corollary to terrestrial evolution;  previously, only God and the angels occupied heaven.  Three decades after the concept of evolution appeared, the popular imagination was ripe for Verne's Extraordinary Voyages and three decades after that, the public accepted Well's story of Martians invading the Earth.  However, even a Professor of Biology from Princeton was unlikely to calmly accept such an idea as an exterterrestrial alien in 1813.<br />Another anachronism is the use of the word \\"germ\\" and the notion of infection.  The use of alcohol to reduce the chances of flesh rot was historically accurate, but the mechanism of antisepsis was not known at that time.  Prior to 1847, only ignorant and superstitious people believed that diseases could be transmitted by some sort of agents.  Not until 1863 did Pasteur discover disease germs and it took over a decade before he proved that diseases were caused by germs (specifically anthrax bacilli).<br />With these exceptions, the historical background seems to be fairly solid.  The author has obviously researched the whale hunters of that time and the privateers and pirates that preyed on them.  The United States may have won that war militarily, but it was definitely an economic disaster, especially in the whaling industry.<br />Recommended for Odom fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of the past together with horrible monsters from outer space roaming under the seas.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-04-03
721762:US	49390985	R18S0SPNY7SNC7	0765306387	985672561	Skyfall (Saga of the Skolian Empire)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	The Skolian Imperialate Backstory	Skyfall (2003) is the ninth novel in the Skolian Imperialate series, but is the first in internal sequence. Around 4000 BC, a group of humans were transported from Earth by aliens to the planet Raylicon and, over the next twelve centuries, built an interstellar empire. This empire was ruled by the Ruby Dynasty, a line of empaths and telepaths. They achieved a level of technology that was capable of rearranging solar systems and of modifying the genetic structure of their colonists.  The collapse of the Ruby Empire left the colonies isolated from Raylicon.    After more than four millennia, the Raylicons began to regain their lost technology and reattained interstellar flight in 1843 AD. Shortly thereafter, genetic experiments by Doctor Hezahr Rhon created a new breed of psions, the Aristos, who could receive but not transmit. Moreover, these Aristos experienced pleasure when receiving the pain of others. The Aristos separated themselves into a new polity, the Eubian Concord, and started conquering Raylicon planets and enslaving the populations.    In 1904 AD, Lahaylia Selei founded the Imperialate in opposition to the Eubian Aristos and activated an ancient Lock to restore the Kyle interstellar web, thereby giving the Skolians the huge advantage of instantaneous communications. After two centuries of reigning as the Pharoah and sole Ruby psion of the Imperialate, Lahaylia found and married another Ruby psion, Jarac, who activated a second Lock to increase the power and scope of the Kyle web. Jarac became the Imperator, the commander of all Imperialate armed forces. Their marriage produced two daughters, Dyhianna and Roca.    In this novel, in 2203 AD, three centuries after the founding of the Imperialate, Roca is trying to evade the agents of her son Kurj in order to return to Parthonia for the debate and vote on invading the Platinum Sectors. The Eubians have brashly taken over the entire region against the prior claims of the Imperialate and the metals in those sectors are urgently needed to maintain Imperialate technology. Roca is against the invasion plans. However, Kurj has her proxy and is determined to keep her from attending the session so that he can use her votes to support the proponents of the invasion. Kurj has been so warped by his mistreatment by his abusive stepfather and by later experiences with the sadistic Eubians that he is totally opposed to any accommodation with the Eubians. Moreover, he will do anything to protect his mother, even if she doesn't want him to do so.    In her flight, Roca is stranded on Capsize, an antiquated spaceport that doesn't even have foul weather guidance systems. Her only transportation is a rusty bucket of bolts that looks like it can't get off the ground unassisted. However, it holds together long enough to take her to Skyfall, where she should be able to transfer to another ship going in the right direction.    Her first glimpse of Skyfall is captivating; it has blue clouds in a lavender sky. The grasses propagate by releasing bubbles that float away on the breeze. The local inhabitants reside in a storybook castle.    Unfortunately, the reality is somewhat less picturesque: the water contains harmful chemicals and the castle is necessary for protection from raiding neighbors; however, the grass is benign. The Allied administrator, who is the entire staff of the spaceport, is friendly and makes her comfortable. She learns that Skyfall is a low tech world with a feudal-like society. Although the Allied Worlds of Earth have claimed the world, it is obviously an ancient colony of the Ruby Empire. As they are talking, a crowd of locals ride up on their animals and surround the port house. In the ensuing conversation, the locals get excited, their leader Eldri lifts her up onto his lyrine, and the whole party gallops away.    Eldri is a strong psion, probably with Ruby Dynasty genes. Her first glimpse of him floods her mind with his feelings and thoughts. Although he doesn't knowwhat is happening, he too receives her feelings and an inkling of her thoughts. They are immediately infatuated with each other, but Roca forces him to behave and almost talks him into returning her to the port. However, his charming personality and the Ruby pheromones overcome her resistance to the point that she agrees to ride with him to his home and return the following day. Unfortunately, his castle is located in the nearby mountains and the weather turns to snow. Lots of snow. So much snow that she misses the supply ship for which she is waiting. Now she is stranded on Skyfall for at least a year.    Meanwhile, back on the Orbiter, the mobile command post of the Imperialate armed forces, Kurj is quietly going crazy over his mother's disappearance. He knows that she has fled because of his actions and he is desperately hoping that she has not come to any harm. He has all available intelligence resources searching for her and he himself spends hours at a time in the web checking obscure databases for references to her. Unfortunately, his mother was a famous dancer even before she became a high level politician and the sheer number of references is overwhelming.    In this story, Roca and Eldri fall in love and, despite her nanomeds, she becomes pregnant. Then a local enemy lays siege to Windward, Eldri's castle. Moreover, Eldri is having grand mal seizures which are coming at more frequent intervals and threaten his life.    This story starts slowly, but builds momentum to the point that the ending seems to flash by in an instance. The politics is frustrating, since it impels characters in unnatural directions. However, the call to duty is finally beat into subservience and the Skolia family members stop tormenting themselves over ideology. While the ending is not entirely a happy one, there is reconciliation, acceptance and rapport.    Highly recommended for Asaro fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of couples overcoming their own misconceptions and environmental obstacles to achieve happiness within a complex society.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-04-02
724070:US	49390985	R1178JAEE19597	0345461983	38213846	Dragon's Kin	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Down in the Coal Mine	Dragon's Kin is the twentieth SF novel in the Pern series, following [[ASIN:0345434684 The Skies of Pern]]. But this novel takes place in the past towards the end of the Second Interval, sixteen years prior to the third return of the Red Star. Miners Hall had begun to experiment with deep shaft mines as the surface deposits began to give out. One of the new Camps was headed by Master Miner Natalon.    In this novel, Kindan is the youngest child of Master Miner Danil. His sister Silstra is betrothed to Journeyman Smith Terregar. So he is very excited when his friend Zenor shouts that the caravan carrying the Smith is within sight of the watch station on the heights. Running and even bouncing up the hill, Kindan arrives breathlessly to see the large drays and brightly painted wagons of the traders. He convinces Zenor to run the news back to Natalon.    When Zenor interrupts a discussion to tell the chief miner the news, Natalon's Uncle Tarik carps about his style of reporting; Uncle Tarik complains about a lot of things and obviously feels that he should have been selected as chief miner. Zenor is then sent to inform the rest of the Camp. On the way, he is called aside by his friend Nuella, Natalon's daughter whose presence is being kept secret from the rest of the camp; Natalon is afraid that her blindness is genetic and knowledge of it could damage the marital chances of his other children. Zenor is the only one outside her immediate family who knows Nuella is there.    Terregar is not the only person to arrive with the trader caravan; Master Harper Zist has come to replace Journeyman Harper Jofri. Master Zist has formerly been the Vocals Master at Harper Hall, but a tragedy in his family has led to him leaving the Hall. One of the reasons for selecting this obscure mining camp was Journeyman Jofri's reports on Kindan's fine voice. Master Zist has plenty of opportunity to hear for himself as they rehearse for Silstra's wedding.    After the wedding, Kindan is apprenticed to Master Zist and gets some intensive coaching in vocals and drums. Soon thereafter an accident in the mine leaves Kindan an orphan and he moves in with Master Zist; Tarik and his family acquire the house built by Kindan's father. With many of the older children working in the mine to make up for their losses, Kindan is the eldest child remaining and takes over the supervision of all work schedules for the younger children.    Along with the human casualties, the accident has also cost the miners their only remaining watch-wher. Minor accidents and mishaps start plaguing the miners and Natalon is convinced that some of the problems result from the lack of a watch-wher. He secretly negotiates the trade of a lot of coal for a watch-wher egg. Since his father was the previous wherhandler for the mine, Kindan is chosen to hatch and raise the new watch-wher.    The whole deal is news to Kindan and he wonders if he knows enough to raise a watch-wher properly. He does remember enough to beg permission for the egg from the queen watch-wher and he does ask the wherhandler what to feed the newly hatched watch-wher, but so much else is unknown to him. Nuella and Zenor, however, pitch in to help him and soon Master Zist obtains additional help from the Benden Weyr Leader.    In this story, Kindan and his friends learn much more about watch-whers than anyone else on Pern. Since watch-whers are nocturnal and used in the deeps of the mine, Nuella contributes her knowledge of moving through darkness. Kindan learns a lot about moving in the dark and has the bruises to prove it.    Needless to say, this story turns Kindan and his friends into heroes. Despite the disparaging remarks from Uncle Tarik and his cronies, the watch-wher proves herself in the worst possible conditions. Moreover, the knowledge they develop leads to better communications between the common folk and the Dragonriders.    This story is suitable for younger readers, but was also enjoyable for this much older one. Recommended for McCaffrey fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of young people and smart animals learning together.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-04-01
725496:US	49390985	R2XC2IIM8QMF4X	0345458338	711681206	The Swords of Night and Day	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The Prophecy of Skilgannon the Damned	The Swords of Night and Day is the eleventh novel in the Drenai Tales series, following White Wolf.  A thousand years before, Skilgannon the Damned had led three hundred of his Silver Hawk cavalry in a flank attack on the invading Zharn tribesmen and slew their king in battle.  While the invaders were driven back, none of Skilgannon's force survived.  After the battle, Ustarte the priestess and prophet acquired his body and hid it in a buried tomb.<br />In this novel, Skilgannon has been resurrected, his body reborn and his soul retrieved from the Void and implanted in the new body.  At first he was unable to recall anything of his previous life, but the memories soon started returning in a haphazard sequence.  Familiar items would trigger whole strings of memories.  First came memories of his death, then he identifies a locket as his and remembers the name of his wife.  Next he recalls Druss the Legend.<br />The resurrection has been accomplished by Landis Khan with the help of the empath Gamal.  They have found Skilgannon's real tomb, with his bones inside.  The tomb also contained the Swords of Night and Day, a locket containing bone and hair of Druss the Legend, and Druss's axe.  Landis has also resurrected the body of Druss, but his soul is not available.<br />Landis has brought Skilgannon back to life to end the tyranny of the Eternal, the reborn of Queen Jianna.  Landis has emissaries from the Eternal, Unwallis and Decado, as guests and introduces Skilgannon to them as his nephew Callan.  Later he sends Skilgannon to Harad, the reborn of Druss, and they take a trip through the hills.  While they are gone, Decado kills Landis and his Jiamads (mass produced Joinings) kill many of the servants and drive the others to the hills.<br />Askari is a reborn of Jianna, although she is not aware of it, and the Eternal has sent troops to recover her for use as a replacement body.  Although she is not there when the troops arrive, she soon discovers the invasion and ambushes the Jiamads.  Her friend Stavut the trader has brought her a new recurve bow and she uses it to shoot the invaders from far away and then heads for the hills.  Stavut thinks Askari is crazy, but follows her into the hills;   he is not about to stick around and try to explain himself to the angry Jiamads.  <br />Skilgannon and Harad counterattack the Jiamads in the village and kill the officers.  They see Askari ambush the Jiamads and watch the Jiamads chase after her.  They track down the Jiamads and attack them from the rear as they storm the hiding place of Askari and Stavut.  Rather than fighting to the death, Skilgannon negotiates a cease fire with the Jiamads and they leave after promising to not attack any more humans.<br />Later Stavut becomes the Pack leader of those Jiamads who survive the attack on Askari and himself.  As more Jiamads show up, Stavut adds them to the Pack.  When Stavut joins Skilgannon and others in defending the passes from the Eternal's forces, his Pack insists on following him into battle.<br />In this story, Skilgannon stills feels a strong attraction to Jianna, his former lover, despite a thousand years within the Void.  Harad learns to love Charis, the peasant girl who had led Gamal out of Petar after Landis is killed.  Askari has known Stavut for years, but his courageous behavior when they are trapped by the Jiamads leads her to see him as a lover.<br />This story is built around a prophecy that Skilgannon will terminate the reign of the Eternal.  Since Jianna is aware of the prophecy, she has been looking for Skilgannon's tomb, but Landis got there first.  However, Skilgannon cannot conceive of any way that he can fulfill the prophecy, but he decides the first step will be the finding of the Temple of Resurrection.<br />The story features a fair amount of fighting.  However, today's enemies become tomorrow's friends.  And today's friends are often tomorrow's enemies.  Even the Eternal is not sure whether she wants Skilgannon dead or alive.<br />Recommended for Gemmell fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of intrigue and betrayal, expert swordsmanship, and magical mysteries.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-03-30
725801:US	49390985	R2QJZS0U5BPQ54	0441011527	873079768	No Phule Like an Old Phule (Phule's Company)	Books	4	11	15	N	N	More Antics by Omega Company and Associates	No Phule Like an Old Phule (2004) is the fifth novel in the Phule series, following Phule Me Twice.  In the previous volume, Omega Company is called upon to protect an Alliance diplomatic mission to Zenobia.  General Blitzkrieg separates Phule from the company and replaces him with Major Botchup.  The Zenobians are being surveilled by the Nanoids, a race of extremely small creatures living in the desert, and are worried about a possible invasion.  Sushi cracks the Nanoid communication codes and Phule's robot double manages to negotiate a cessation of aggressive activities.  Phule himself establishes a good relationship with the dinosaur-like head honcho, Chief Potentary Korg.  Despite every effort by Blitzkrieg, Omega company completes its mission with distinction.    In this novel, Omega Company is expecting a visit from a group of VIP hunters.  When a ship lands in the vicinity of the Omega encampment, Captain Jester welcomes the visitors to the planet, but soons discovers that they are not the expected guests, but rather a trio of environmental inspectors from AEIOU, the Alliance Ecological Interplanetary Observation Union.  They have come to do an environmental inspection of Omega Company and the planet itself.  Moreover, they have brought Barky, the Environmental Dog, who obviously has not been previously exposed to extraterrestrial aliens since he chases any that he smells.    When the hunters finally land, Omega Company tries to keep them away from the AEIOU inspectors and Barky.  The VIPS are hoping to hunt the huge dinosaurs they have heard existed on Zenobia and have brought a variety of large weapons.  However, they would like to acquire some local weapons just in case.    The VIP ship also brings a new recruit to the company.  Thumper is rather like a rabbit, with large ears, and also runs like one.  He is despised by his fellow recruits during boot camp because he is too gung ho and makes them look bad.  His fellows get him in trouble with General Blitzkrieg and the general angerly assigns the recruit to Blitzkrieg's least favorite company in the Legion.  Now Thumper learns how Omega Company does military training.    In the meantime, the mob catches up with the con artists Lola and Ernie and insist that they finish the kidnap job bungled in Phule's Paradise.  Moving back to Lorelei Station, the pair start casing the casino looking for Willard Phule, but instead find Victor.   Willard's father is playing the slot machines at five thousand dollars a pull, certain that he has a system that will break the bank.  Lola and Ernie can't figure his angle, since everybody knows you can't beat the odds on the slots.    Back at camp, Phule is waiting for a promotion packet from headquarters.  The Rev has learned about L'Viz from Lieutenant Qual and gets Sushi to hack into the Zenobian computer net to discover more about this mysterious person.  Qual has his men doing maintenance on a large Sklern machine in the middle of the camp, although his explanations of its functions have totally failed to convey any useful information.  Mysterious lights appear at night in the desert without any accompanying electromagnetic signals, causing a red alert.  The VIPs are shooting off some large sized weapons without regard to whoever might be downrange.  Barky chases Thumper around the mess hall and causes a humongous food fight.    This story puts Omega Company directly behind the eight ball, but they wiggle out of the mess in their usual idiosyncratic way.  Victor does some male bonding with Ernie and thinks he is a fine fellow.  Lola gets drunk with Tullie Bascomb, manager of the Fat Chance Casino, and they are both totally surprised with the deal negotiated by Ernie and Victor.    This story is filled with the usual satire, irony, slapstick, puns and other humorous devices.  As usual, Omega Company manages to do the job in a competent yet eccentric manner, as does the management of the Fat Chance Casion.  Although this volume was notquite as funny as the previous four, it does have some hilarious moments, as well as a few just plain silly incidents such as \\"the game's afoot\\" gag.    Recommended for Asprin & Heck fans and for anyone else who enjoys humorous tales with almost no limits.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-03-30
725875:US	49390985	RKDWOW9OBXHMI	0380977095	790293218	King of Foxes (Conclave of Shadows, Book 2)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Time for Vengeance	King of Foxes is the second novel in the Conclave of Shadows series, following Talon of the Silver Hawk.  In the previous volume, Talon has gained his manhood name, but at the same time has lost everyone he loved to a band of raiding mercenaries.  He later discovered that the raid was led by a man called Raven, who had been hired by Duke Kaspar of Olasko.  Talon was rescued by agents of the Conclave of Shadows and he himself became an agent in order to gain vengeance for his lost tribe.  The Conclave provided weapons training and he become an accomplished swordsman.  They also provided him with a false identity as Squire Talwin Hawkins, a minor Kingdom noble, and covertly sponsored him in the Tournament of Masters at Roldem.  Winning the tourney, Tal gained the title of the world's greatest swordsman.<br />After the tournament, he turned down an offer to join the court of Duke Kaspar, for he has the Duke's minions to destroy first.  Instead, he started looking for Raven and found that the mercenary was planning another raid on the mountain tribes.  Hiring another mercenary troop, Tall prepared a trap for Raven in one of the tribal villages.  Although Raven escaped the ambush with several men, Tall followed behind and killed them all.<br />In this novel, Tal is now ready to attack the two remaining targets in his planned vengeance, Duke Kaspar and Quentin Havrevulen, commander of the Duke's army.  Tal returns to Roldem after an absence of two years and resumes his social rounds.  Not entirely by coincidence, the Duke is visiting his cousin, King Carol.  Tal hopes to join the retinue of the Duke without appearing too obvious, so he again turns down the Duke's offer of a position.  However, after spectacularly embarrassing Prince Matthew, a vainglorious bore, at sword practice, Tal allows Kaspar to save him from the fury of the prince and thus becomes a Captain in service to Kaspar.<br />The Duke has a beautiful sister, Lady Natalia, who takes an interest in Tal.  Although not a participant in her brother's political affairs, Natalia is a political plum that the Duke is holding back for the best possible suitor.  In the meanwhile, Natalia gets her pleasures wherever she can and Tal is one of her favorite pleasures.<br />The Duke also has a very powerfully necromancer, Leso Varen, as an advisor and, possibly, as a puppetmaster.  According to those near him, the Duke has changed for the worse since Varen joined his court.  Pug has had fought Varen before and knows that the magician will be very hard to overcome within the Duke's castle.<br />In this story, Tal has to survive his service to the Duke without breaking his oath until such time as the Duke betrays him.  Moreover, he has to find a way past the strong defenses of the Duke's citadel.  Furthermore, he has to find a way of breaking Varen's magical defenses.<br />Tal also has to watch out for his servant.  The Conclave has reassigned the ever efficient Pasko and Tal has promoted Amafi, his bodyguard, to valet.  Since Amafi has already had long experience as an assassin, Tal can certainly use his services, but betrayal is always a possibility.<br />Like most of his novels, the author has produced a detailed slice of the history of the Kingdom and its neighbors.  The social interactions are fascinating, but the fights are fewer and further apart than in the first novel.  The characters are interesting, but their motivations are only hinted by their actions;  even Tal's thinking and emotions are revealed at a fairly superficial level.<br />There is quite a bit of discussion of food and wine in this segment.  Such mentions are not totally irrelevant.  Enjoy them for the insight they provide into Tal's character per se, but note that they will also convey one of the few real touches of humor in the story.<br />This novel ties up most loose ends for this segment.  However, the story strongly hints that an evil power is still at work behind the scenes.  Stay tuned for Exile's Return, the next installment in the Conclave of Shadows.<br />Highly recommended for Feist fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of court intrigue and daring bladework.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-03-30
725949:US	49390985	R2JAALKSDZSU1H	1592220193	178224632	Balance Of Trade (A Liaden Universe Novel)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Merger of Like Minds	Balance of Trade (2004) is a prequel novel in the Liaden Universe series. Jethri Gobelyn is a shipborn adolescent just short of manhood. He is the youngest aboard the Gobelyn's Market and his mother, the Captain, has decided to transfer him to another ship belonging to the family. Iza had borne two children by her husband Arin, but Jethri, the last born, had never been accepted by her and her antagonism has only gotten worse over the ten years since Arin died while rescuing strangers from a warehouse fire.    In this novel, Jethri has been given the responsibility by his Uncle Paitor for trading a lot of textiles and approaches the Liaden trader Sir bin'Flora with his merchandise. With the payment for the sample bolt, Jethri decides to loan the money to a fellow trader with a shortage of available cash but with the firm guarantee of a four-for-one payment on previous merchandise from the Liaden Master Trader Norn ven'Deelin. Since the man has the Master Trader's card as warrantee on the deal, Jethri doesn't see how he can lose. However, when the man fails to show with the payment, Jethri finds out from Norn ven'Deelin that the card was counterfeit.    The Liaden sense of balance insists that ven'Deelin owes Jethri for bringing this situation to her attention and when the attempt to restore balance goes badly, she offers to take on Jethri as an apprentice. Iza Gobelyn reluctantly agrees and Jethri relocates his few goods to the Liaden ship. Jethri soon finds that being Norn ven'Deelin's apprentice is hard work and he also discovers that some Liadens don't like Terrans.    Meanwhile, the Gobelyn's Market lands in a shipyard for refitting and the Captain soon finds herself in trouble with the shipyard boss, not to mention the police. Since her eldest son, Chris, is temporarily on a long haul pending completion of the refit, her daughter Seeli takes over supervision of the refit and Iza finds herself another long haul. Grig Tomas, Arin's cousin and Seeli's spouse, has also stayed behind to help Seeli and he has a unwelcome reunion with his uncle and sister.    This story is a tale of a young man learning to become Liaden as well as Terran, for ven'Deelin has visions of him becoming a bridge between the two trading societies. He makes friends, enemies and many acquaintances during this time, including two foster-cousins, Meicha and Miandra, young ladies who are dramliza or the next best thing to it. Unfortunately, Irikwae is a planet settled by Liaden who detested and feared dramliza. Jethri also has problems with some Old Tech that causes a slight disaster.    As with all the Liaden tales, the story is engrossing and ends too soon. One always wants there to be a sequel available. Hopefully, Jethri Gobelyn and his extended family will appear in another tale in the near future.    Highly recommended for Lee & Miller fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of interesting young persons gaining adult skills amidst strange and exotic cultures.  If anyone is not familiar with this series, the initial volume is [[ASIN:0345348281 Agent of Change]].    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-03-30
726534:US	49390985	R2SB6XMU2E649O	0743488172	795792639	Gods and Androids	Books	5	43	43	N	N	The Doppelganger Novels	Gods and Androids is an omnibus edition of two independent novels.  It includes Android in Arms and Wraiths of Time.  Both involve doppelgangers who replace their duplicate persons during a time of great crisis.<br />Androids at Arms (1971) is a singleton novel set in the Psychocrat universe.  Imperial Prince Andas of Inyanga and other personages awake on a harsh planet apparently uninhabited by sentient life except for the single building that they occupy.  In discussing the situation, they conclude that they have been under the influence of an inhibitor, which muddles the mind.  Then one of them tells of a rumor he has heard of a service that, for a suitable fee, offers to replace selected persons with programmed androids.<br />Wraiths of Time (1976) is a singleton novel about an ancient Egyptian civilization.  Tallahassee Mitford is a student of archaeology and an assistant curator at the local museum.  As she examines an artifact found in an airport locker, she is suddenly surrounded by a riot of light, heat, sound and pain and then falls senseless.  Upon awaking, Tally finds that she has been hurled into a time after Egypt was overrun by barbarians.<br />These stories illustrate one of the recurring themes in the author's SF works:  persona transfer.  As best exemplified in the Moonsinger series,  the author explores the results of transferring or copying a mind from one body to another.  In these stories, the mind is impressed upon a near duplicate body.  However, in other tales the persona is impressed upon a very different physical carrier;  for example, in The Moon of Three Rings, the mind of Krip Vorland is transferred to a barsk, an alien canine-like animal.  These stories also depict the two approaches that the author takes to such advanced techniques;  in the first tale, the transfer is apparently accomplished by machines, but the second story seems to use an advanced technology indistinquishable from magic.<br />Nevertheless, these stories don't dwellupon the technical aspects, but paint vivid pictures of two very different worlds and their inhabitants.  As in most of her novels, the author shows human beings, and aliens, coping with trying circumstances and achieving a fair degree of success in unexpected circumstances and strange environments. While these novels are not among the author's major works, they are easy and enjoyable reads.<br />Highly recommended for Norton fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of daring adventures and exotic societies.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-03-30
727974:US	49390985	RC3GFKP1Y6AIF	0765309076	209580980	Wellspring of Chaos (Saga of Recluce)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Mage In Spite of Himself	Wellspring of Chaos is the twelfth novel in the Recluce Saga, but the events therein occur about a half century after the destruction of Fairhaven in The Order War and before the events in The Magic of Recluce.    In this novel, Kharl is a cooper in the port town of Brysta on Nordla. One everning, he interrupts an assault on a neighbor's girl by two rich youths and drives them off. Later, he finds an assaulted female blackstaffer, a wanderer from Recluce, in an alley near his shop and takes her into his home; his wife Charee believes that blackstaffers are evil and will not allow her to be taken upstairs to the family residence, so Kharl lays her down on the apprentice pallet in his workshop. Charee treats her injuries, repairs her clothing, and prepares to take her to the local priest of the one-god. However, someone starts a fire and kills the girl during the confusion.    Captain Egen of the Watch arrests Kharl for the murder and has him confined in a cell. However, a neighbor testifies at the trial that Kharl was within his sight throughout the fire incident and thus could not have killed the girl. So the Justicer and the local lord decide, from the testimony of Captain Egen, that Charee must have been the murderer and she is sentenced to hang. They also decide that Kharl has resisted arrest and was disrespectful, so he is sentenced to thirty lashes.    After this misjustice, both of Kharl's sons blame him for the death of their mother and move away from the home. Kharl's taxes are raised to double that of prior years and his customers are going elsewhere for barrels. Then his neighbor is murdered and Kharl intercepts the fleeing killer and stops him dead. Grabbing what coins he can and the dead girl's staff and backpack, Kharl flees his home and his troubles.    In this story, Kharl is the victim of a mean, nasty and vindictive person, Captain Egen, who is the son of the local lord and who has come to thoroughly hate Kharl. Despite all that has happened to him,Kharl is still naive and trusting. However, he is taken in hand by Jekat, a local urchin and beggar, and introduced to the seamier side of Brysta, including Egen's misdeeds and a ritual killer white wizard who is after Jekat.    Kharl finally escapes Brysta on the Seastag, captained by Hagen of Valmurl on Austra. He becomes a carpenter's assistant and visits ports throughout the world. He also reads a book from the dead blackstaffer's pack, The Basis of Order, and ponders the nature of order and chaos. In his travels, he meets a number of people who help him understand the principles behind the book and he eventually finds a minor black mage who describes some of the \\"tricks\\" that black mages can perform.    This story describes Kharl's development as a black mage. While he never relinguishes his previous occupation as a cooper nor his current one of carpenter's mate, he reluctantly adds the skills of mage to his repertoire. He is very stubborn and only gives up ideas and associations as absolutely necessary. He is driven to be a mage or he would have ignored the whole notion. Nonetheless, he finally acknowledges his new vocation, but also recognizes his great ignorance.    In some respects, this novel parallels The Magi'i of Cyador, only with a black mage rather than a white wizard.  With the loose ends in this volume, one would expect a sequel corresponding to Scion of Cyador, wherein Kharl concentrates on developing his order skills. Hopefully this sequel will not be very long in coming.    Highly recommended for Modesitt fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of personal growth, magical abilities and dutiful commitment.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-03-29
730111:US	49390985	RNZOX1HJQKB8B	0373802048	119127880	In Camelot's Shadow	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An Intrepid Lady in King Arthur's Court	In Camelot's Shadow is an Arthurian tale.  Lord Rygehil of the Morelands is traveling homeward from the coronation of Arthur as King of the Britons.  The weather is wet and cold and his pregnant lady has been taken by a fever and is near death.  The Morelands party all crowd into an abandoned Roman fort for shelter and find that a Byzantine sorcerer has already occupied the ruin.  Euberacon offers to save the life of Lady Jocosa in exchange for the child and Lord Rygehil agrees.<br />In this novel, Risa of the Morelands has grown to be a fair lady, but cannot get her father to agree to a betrothal.  Lady Jocosa forces her husband to disclose his bargain with the sorcerer and Risa overhears the confession.  Lord Rygehil refuses to consider any action to negate the promise, so Risa runs away to seek sanctuary with the holy sisters at the monastery of St. Anne.  <br />Whitcomb, the steward, had overheard the bargain so many years before and insists on accompanying her to the monastery.  Hardly had they left the cleared fields for the forest road than they found the sorcerer waiting for them.  The black magician spooks Whitcomb's horse, dumping the steward on the ground.  <br />When Euberacon moves over to the felled steward with a knife in his hand, Risa puts a arrow to her bow and draws on the sorcerer, but he only breaks her bow string and stabs Whitcomb.  Then he accosts Risa, but a stranger rides out of the night and stabs Euberacon with his lance.  Risa grabs the magician's knife from where he dropped it and stabs him.  The sorcerer, however, heals his wounds and disappears in a cloud of smoke.<br />The stranger is Sir Gawain, a champion of Camelot and heir to the king.  Ten years past, Arthur's forces had defeated the Saxons at Mount Baden.  Now the Saxons are plotting an uprising under Wolfweard, called Wolfget by many, who is being subtly manipulated by a sorceress named Kerra.  Gawain is bringing word of the uprising to Camelot when he comes across the confrontation between Risa and Euberacon.  After driving off the sorcerer, Gawain gets Risa on her horse and leads her out of the area with considerable haste.<br />In this story, Euberacon has deliberately driven Gawain and Risa together to take advantage of Gawain's susceptibility to oppressed women.  Gawain has blamed himself for a tragic incident between his father and his sister and has since fallen in love with numerous women having troubled marriages or other problems.  The sorcerer knows that Gawain's weakness will cause dissension among Arthur's champions and thereby aid the Saxon offensive.<br />Nonetheless, Risa is by no means a helpless woman like all of Gawain's other loves.  When she has to defend herself, she shoots first and becomes sick after the fight is over.  Gawain is sure that she is something special in his life.<br />This story has a lot to say about the role of women in that time and place.  Although ladies were cherished under the vows of chivalry, each is also bound to a male protector, first their father and then to their husband;  if they do not marry, they are bound to their eldest brother when their father dies.  Even if the protector is cruel and abusive, the woman has no recourse other than finding another protector.  Despite the indifference (and cowardice) shown by her father, Risa is bound by tradition and law to obey him.<br />The last chapter ends with a note saying &quot;the battle for England will continue in 2005&quot;.  One presumes that another Arthurian tale by this author will be released then.  Whether the tale will feature Risa and Gawain is not known.<br />Recommended for Zettel fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of Arthur, the Knights of the Round Table, and their ladies.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-03-27
730412:US	49390985	R337VL9XHOUC79	0765300427	127726302	Beast Master's Circus (Norton, Andre)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Another Tale in the Norton Tradition	Beast Master's Circus is the fourth novel in the Beast Master series, following Beast Master's Ark.  In the previous volume, the Ark came to Arzor with DNA samples and live animals from the devastated Earth.  Storm Hosteen inquires about mates for his team and meets Tani, a genetic engineer and niece of the couple running the Ark.  Storm and Tani work together to investigate a mystery called the Death-which-comes-in-the-night and discover that the Xik have brought deadly clicker swarms to Arzor.  Together they lead the fight to defeat the Xiks and eradicate the voracious creatures.<br />In this novel, Storm and Tani are presented with the mystery of Laris, a young orphan from the refugee camps who performs in Dedran's Circus.  Logan Quade is much taken by the young woman and invites her to the main ranch.  Brad Quade also becomes fond of his son's new friend and offers to investigate her past.  When Laris agrees, Brad starts sending messages to the camps and other sources to determine her history.<br />Laris is very good with animals and has a special friend of her own, the cat-like Prauo.  Laris found Prauo as a bedraggled kitten on the outskirts of a spaceport.  Laris took him back to the circus, fed and sheltered him, and he grew rather large.  Laris and Prauo gradually developed the ability to communicate emotions and images and lately have been able to see with each other's eyes, but they have also been able to exchange thoughts since Prauo's last growth spurt.<br />Jas Cregan is an animal trainer with the circus.  A former beast master, he has been damaged somehow so that he can no longer link with the animals.  He is not quite sane and blames the other beast masters for his problems.  Dedran is using him to acquire the enhanced animals from beast master teams, but the animals always die when separated from their masters.  Now Dedran is after the enhanced animals partnered with Storm and Tani.<br />This story depicts a young woman in a moral and legal quandary.  She has signed a bond of indenture as Dedran's servant to get out of the refugee camp.  Although she was underage at the time, Laris knows that Dedran can use his contacts in the Thieves Guild to counteract any legal complaints that she might pursue.  Moreover, Dedran would certainly take Prauo away from her.  Nonetheless, Laris risks all to try to help Storm and Tani.<br />The story follows the customary style of this author's science fiction, involving young persons and their symbiotic partners in a fight to gain liberty from an oppressive social situation.   It slowly reveals the backstory of Laris and Cregan.  In addition, the story reveals more about Bright Sky, Tani's father and a Cheyenne beast master, and his defense of Trastor against the Xiks.<br />Highly recommended for Norton &amp; McConchie fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of determined young persons linked with clever, and sometimes sapient, animals.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-03-27
731532:US	49390985	RL281XFEEVS8Y	0743488156	70854276	1634: The Galileo Affair (The Assiti Shards)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Diplomatic Relations on the Italian Front	1634: The Galileo Affair is the third novel in the Grantville series, following 1633.  It also follows The Wallenstein Gambit and several other stories in the shared world anthology Ring of Fire.  The displaced Americans of Grantville have weathered everything thrown at them, welcomed refugees from the Thirty Year War into their community, and have thrived as a people, despite (and due to) their common losses.  Working together, Gustavus Aldophus and Mike Stearns have created the United States of Europe, finessing various princes of Germany into obscurity.  Democracy has gained a foothold within seventeenth century Europe.<br />Their military successes have saved them from occupation by their neighbors, but their library has even more effectively changed history.  Texts on the uptime histories of the seventeenth century have became very popular among the powerful personages of Europe ... and very disturbing to many of them.  General von Wallenstein allied himself with the Americans after reading of his betrayal and death under the Habsburgs in the original timeline.  Richelieu changed his tactics and personnel, if not his goals, after reading his own history.  Charles I of England sent Oliver Cromwell to the Tower to save his own head (and thereby put him right into the hands of Melissa Mailey).  And the rabbis of Amsterdam condemned a year old child named Baruch de Espinoza -- better known as Benedict Spinoza -- as a heretic and relinquished him directly into the hands of Rebecca Stearns.<br />The library also caused considerable turmoil within the Holy Roman Catholic Church with their religious holdings.  Father Mazzare started the controversy by allowing Father Fredrich von Spee to read his own entry in the Catholic Encyclopedia, thereby stiffening the Jesuit's resistance to the Inquisition.  Then Mazzare provided copies of the Papers of the Second Vatican Council and other documents to Monsignor Giulio Mazarini, which led the Pope to request a summary of Catholic theological reforms over the following centuries in the original timeline. <br />In this novel, the newly formed USE acts to open a trade corridor with the Middle East via Venice.  Stearns selects Larry Mazzare to lead the delegation to Venice because of his current fame (or notoriety) among Catholics.  Mazzare asks Simon Jones, the Methodist minister, to accompany him as a sign of religious tolerance and Father Augustus Heinzerling, SJ, goes along as Mazzare's assistant.  Stearns also sends Tom Stone and family to assist with the production of pharmaceuticals, Sharon Nichols to aid in medical education (and to give her something useful to do while she is grieving), and Ernst Mauer to advise on public sanitation.  Lieutenant Conrad Ursinus is sent as the Naval Attach and advisor on shipbuilding and Captain Lennox is assigned as the Military Attach and commander of the Marine Guard.  Lieutenant Billy Trumble is sent as XO of the Marine escort as well as sports advisor (Billy and Conrad represent the baseball players and the Stone boys are pushing soccer).<br />An agent of the local Committee of Correspondence quickly establishes contact with the Stone brothers.  Giovanna agrees to arrange a meet with the head of the local CoC and, after some confusion over the term \\"date\\" within this context, gives the boys some hope of a little socializing in addition to business.  Of course, her youth and beauty has something to do with that aspect of the arrangements.<br />Larry Mazzare welcomes Benjamin Luzzatto to the new USE embassy and introduces him to the staff.  Luzzatto is a Venetian Jew who has been selected as their local advisor by the USE spymaster Don Francisco Nasi.  Although briefly disconcerted by the presence of a Methodist minister in the delegation, Luzzatto quickly recovers and, after a period of socialization, presents Mazzare and his senior staff with detailed briefing on the local situation.<br />Unfortunately, the official delegation is not the only party from the USE to arrive in Venice.  Joe Buckley, investigative reporter extraordinaire, moves into the building next door.  And, unknown to the USE delegation, Claude de Mesmes, comte d'Avaux and agent of Cardinal Richelieu, has moved into the French embassy and is beginning to implement his orders to disrupt trade negotiations between the USE and Venice.<br />In this story, the USE has several goals in Venice.  First, they need trade partners within the Mediterranean and the Middle East to insure supplies of materials unavailable within Western Europe.  Second, they need political allies within these regions.  Third, they need religious allies to spread the doctrines of religious tolerance and the separation of church and state.  Venice has the most potential as an ally within the Mediterranean and is also the best available conduit to the Middle East.  Richelieu, however, is fully aware of the possibilities and the stakes, so his agents are going to work against the USE.  Other enemies have been weakened by prior military and political successes by the USE, but haven't given up the fight;  after all, assassins are relatively cheap compared to armies.<br />And then there is the Galileo affair.  The Roman Catholic hierarchy has been severely disturbed by the religious concepts brought by the uptimers.  Now the leadership is aware of the consequences of Church attempts to suppress scientific discoveries in the other timeline.  So what is the Church going to do about Galileo this time?<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-03-26
735160:US	49390985	R28WSU6WYSAP0J	0373802021	943253354	The Fairy Godmother (Tales of the Five Hundred Kingdoms, Book 1)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Not Really Cinderella	The Fairy Godmother (2004) is a modern fairy tale.  In the five hundred kingdoms, the Tradition governs almost everything, generating magic to manipulate the lives of individuals onto well-trod paths.  Some of the paths of Tradition are bright and promising, but others are dark and deadly.      Fairy Godmothers and Wizards try to shape the Tradition into more benevolent paths.  They are assisted by white Witches and Hedge Wizards who dispense beneficial potions and minor magics.  When black magicians cause chaos and corruption, the Godmothers and Wizards can call upon white Sorcerers and Sorceresses to fight the evil ones.    In this novel, Elena Cinders is treated worse than the servants by her step-mother and step-sisters.  She does all the mean and nasty chores while Madame, Daphne, and Delphinium mingle with the upper crust of Otraria.  She only has two blouses and two skirts to wear and she herself had to carve her shoes out of wood.  She used to sleep on the kitchen floor before the hearth, but was allowed to move to a garret room when the former occupant, one of the maidservants, refused to remain in that dark space.    Obviously this story is a retelling of Cinderella.  But Elena is nineteen and the local prince is only eleven years old!  Moreover, Madame and the horrid sisters pack everything readily portable and move out of town, leaving Elena behind!  What is going on here?    Elena learns that she is one of those people whose destiny has been frustrated by inauspicious circumstances.  The Tradition has generated more and more magic to force her on the proper path, but the appropriate elements are just not there.  Now she has an enormous store of magic with nothing to do and nowhere to go.    Madame Bella is the local Fairy Godmother and has been keeping an eye on Elena for some time.  Now she offers to train Elena as a Fairy Godmother or, if she chooses otherwise, to at least drain off the surplus magic.  Elena decides to become an apprentice to the Fairy Godmother and off they go to Madame Bella's magic cottage in the woods.    This story draws upon all the fairy tales that we have learned as children to create the Tradition, a powerful if nonpersonal force in the lives of these characters.  While the Fairy Godmothers were initially all Fair Folks, the demand was so great that now most are really humans.  Even so, every Godmother is responsible for several kingdoms and is backup for others.  Moreover, good apprentices are hard to find, so Elena finds herself welcomed warmly into the fellowship.    Since evil magicians target the Fairy Godmothers first whenever they try to take over a kingdom, the Godmothers usually pose as common witches, dispensing potions, minor magic and good advice among the common folk.  Since Elena already knows how to distill essences and prepare ointments, Madame Bella concentrates upon teaching her the use of magic.    Madame Bella and Elena are served -- voluntarily -- by four house elves who take care of the house and grounds.  The extra help is necessary since the cottage is much bigger on the inside than it appears from the outside.  There are also gardens and orchards to weed and harvest on the property as well as an elderly donkey to tend.    This story is mostly about the hopes and fears of Elena as well as her uncommon sense and growing maturity.  However, there are also moments of action and terror and of romance and fulfillment.  Overall, this tale is a satisfying, if unconventional, read.    Highly recommended for Lackey fans and for anyone who enjoys tales of brave and practical young ladies facing an uncertain future.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-03-23
736275:US	49390985	RBEENPMD6M5UM	0689500335	900055525	No Night Without Stars	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Seeking the Before People	No Night Without Stars (1975) is a post-apocalyptic novel that takes place three centuries after the cataclysm that caused the Dark Time.  When the Earth danced, mountains belched fire and sea waves hammered the land, many animals and countless men had perished.  The cold and great choking clouds of evil air killed many more.  Only a handful of men and animals survived here and there.    After the skies cleared once again, there were changes.  Some animals grew larger, like the clever and adaptable koyots who became riding animals for the Mobs.  And the Traders spoke of distant species of men who had grown into giants.    In this novel, Sander left Jak's Mob to search for the secret of working the strange metals found among the ruins of the Before People.  Together with Rhin, his mount, Sander came East seeking the ancient ruins where such metals were found.  He finds a village by the sea that has been attacked by the Sea Shark slavers.  Although he only takes some food and tools from the village, a survivor tracks him down during the night and questions him.    The next day, Fanyi finds him again under the open sky.  She and her companions, the fishers Kai and Kayi, had been away when the raiders attacked Padford.  Now, as the village shaman, she works to pay back the blood debt.  She tells Sander that her foreseeing has shown their paths to run together, following her pendant toward the Great Place of the Before People.    In this story, Sander, Fanyi and their animal companions trek north and east, crossing forests, rivers and dry sea beds.  They discover strange and dangerous new species, demolished cities, and ocean bottoms littered with huge bones, dead ships and ancient ruins.  Eventually, they find the cache of old knowledge for which they are searching and face therein a danger greater than any other they have encountered.    This story has many of the author's signature elements.  Two young persons and their mutated animals are engaged in a quest that takes them through ruins, tunnels and mountains of debris.  They find an ancient and mysterious machine with mental powers which presents a danger to humanity.  Despite learning that their hopes have been based on mistaken ideas, they persevere anyway and overcome all obstacles to emerge triumphantly and with new found wisdom.    This is not one of the author's major works, but is still an enjoyable read.  Recommended for Norton fans and for anyone else who enjoys quest tales among the ruins of civilization.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-03-22
736277:US	49390985	R12I7SLBHSHW6P	0553584472	495045935	Lost in Transmission	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Building Civilization at Barnard's Star	Lost in Transmission is the third novel in The Queendom of Sol series, following The Wellstone.  In the previous volume, the Queen's Navy and the Royal Constabulary arrested Prince Bascal and his pirate crew and returned them to Earth for trial before the Queen.  They were sentenced to exile on the worlds of Barnard's Star, some 5.9 light-years away, for a period of one thousand years.<br />In this novel, the QSS Newhope departs the Solar System, carrying Bascal, the newly elected king of the Barnard system, and his subjects to their new home.  Only twenty of the migrs are active while the others are stored in the memory cores of the fax system.  With a travel time of a century, even the working crew will spend much of the voyage in storage.  <br />King Bascal, however, elects to stay active during the entire trip, spending the time in learning new things, planning his kingdom and, hopefully, gaining wisdom.  Captain Xmary and First Mate Conrad alternate active periods to supervise ship activities.  Other crew members are active occasionally to refine ship systems and repair en route damage.<br />After reaching the Barnard system and decelerating into a useful orbit, the crew start feeding a suitable space rock into the matter buffer of an oversized fax system to produce the components for a shipyard.  Then they put together a space habitat in orbit around planet two.  Finally, they start terraforming the planet.<br />In this story, the colonists encounter and overcome many difficulties, but their most intractable problem is the production of fax systems.  Conrad continues to be a close advisor to Bascal, but they become increasingly distance as the king becomes more ruthless in his approach.  Conrad and Xmary become lovers, but are often apart for decades at a time.<br />This story portrays the descent of Bascal into hubris.  When the colony gets into deep trouble, the king refuses to consider any plan that would require help from the Queendom of Sol.  He usesthe excuse of their exile, but he is really obsessed with proving his own worth.<br />In the framing story, Radmer and Bruno enter the Lune atmosphere and land on the Aden Plateau above the town of Timoch.  The sphere rolls into an old watch tower on the edge of the plateau, saving them from a disastrous roll down the long slope.  Unfortunately, their descent has been seen by the enemy and they are pursued as they flee toward Timoch.<br />Highly recommended for McCarthy fans and for anyone else who enjoys hard science fiction with cutting edge technology and interesting speculations on the social and personal consequences thereof.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-03-22
736454:US	49390985	R38J1Z9R1ONKHV	0743435958	116884533	Darkness and Dawn	Books	5	51	52	N	N	Post-apocalyptic Quests	Darkness and Dawn is an omnibus edition of two independent novels. It includes [[ASIN:0345325885 Star Man's Son]] and [[ASIN:0689500335 No Night Without Stars]]. Both novels are post-apocalyptic stories set after great cataclysms that destroyed the previous civilizations. Both involve quests for knowledge and materiel from the prior age. And both feature symbiotic relationships between humans and animals.    Star Man's Son (1952) takes place after the Great Blowup. Many areas are still radioactive. Mutated plants and animals abound. Fors is the son of Langdon, a Star Man killed by Beast Things on an exploration into a far city. Fors is rejected by the Star Men due to his white hair, a sign of mutation, and so he and his great hunting cat, Lura, leave on a great journey to search for the lost city in the north that was never bombed and thus is safe for scavengers.    No Night Without Stars (1975) takes place three centuries after the cataclysm that caused the Dark Time. Many animals and countless men perished, with only a handful of survivors here and there and, after the skies cleared once again, there were changes. Sander left his people to search for the secret of working the strange metals found among the ruins. Fanyi seeks weapons to pay back the blood debt due to the slavers who have killed or captured her people. Together with their mutated animals -- Rhin, Kai and Kayi -- they follow her pendant toward the Great Place of the Before People.    These stories are classical Norton. Star Man's Son was her first science fiction tale, written more than a decade prior to No Night Without Stars. They are very similar, but the second tale includes a heroine, which was against publisher policy when the first tale was written; however, the author has since produced many female characters with more substantial personalities.    Highly recommended for Norton fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of quests among the ruins of destroyed civilizations.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-03-22
737259:US	49390985	RHVU4TLTIJ7TS	074347175X	862855904	Ring of Fire (Assiti Shards)	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Putting Flesh on the Skeleton	Ring of Fire (2004) is a shared universe anthology of original stories based on the Assiti Shards series. These fifteen stories flesh in the skeleton provided in 1632 and add backstory to 1633 and 1634. The authors range from Flint, Weber, Freer and Lackey to other less known published authors to mostly unknown newcomers.    \\"In the Navy\\" by David Weber points out the complexity of the human persona as well as the importance of context. \\"Too Dye For\\" by Mercedes Lackey illustrates the power of love and the wisdom of (some) women. \\"A Lineman For the Country\\" by Dave Freer is another story of the power of love and the passions of technogeeks. \\"Between the Armies\\" by Andrew Dennis is a story about a twentieth century Catholic priest with a crisis of conscience when faced with the immorality of the Holy Roman Catholic Church of the seventeenth century. \\"Biting Time\\" by Virginia DeMarce is a yarn about false teeth and vintage love.    \\"Power to the People\\" by Loren K. Jones is about the adventures of the Grantville Power Station personnel after the Ring of Fire. \\"A Matter of Consultation\\" by S.L. Viehl tells of the ignorance and pride of the seventeenth century's most famous physician. \\"Family Faith\\" by Anette M. Pederson is another morality tale about religious hubris and humility. \\"When the Chips Are Down\\" by Jonathan Cresswell & Scott Washburn is a humorous piece about adolescent ignorance, ingenuity and perseverance.     \\"American Past Time\\" by Deann Allen & Mike Turner is about playing, teamwork and the American Melting Pot.  \\"Skeletons\\" by Greg Donahue is a tale about fear, morality and redemption. \\"A Witch to Live\\" by Walt Boyes is an account of the difference that Grantville made in the life of a Jesuit reformer. \\"The Three R's\\" by Jody Dorsett is a yarn about a union roughneck and a religious deacon who found common ground. \\"Here Comes Santa Claus\\" by K.D. Wentworth is a romp about the second Christmas celebration in Grantville, featuring Gottfried Heinrich Grafvon Pappenheim as Santa Claus.     \\"The Wallenstein Gambit\\" by Eric Flint recounts the events prior to the succession of Greater Bohemia under Albrecht Wenzel Eusebius von Wallenstein from the Habsburg empire in the new timeline.    These stories range the gamut from humorous anecdotes to serious historical speculation. There are stories to appeal to almost every taste. Moreover, they are all very readable and most are worth reading more than once.    Highly recommended for alternate history fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of indomitable migrs making a new life in an old world.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-03-21
738355:US	49390985	R2WZPXEGJCW6K4	0743471741	336717145	The Human Edge	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A Short Introduction to Various Facets of Gordon Dickson	The Human Edge (2003) is a collection of twelve stories of various lengths by the author.  The subject and title were initially suggested by Jim Baen, but the selections were made by Hank Davis.  These twelve stories were originally published during the period from 1957 to 1969, but I have read (and enjoyed) most to them in anthologies or in the author's previous collections.  However, insofar as I am aware, none are currently in print elsewhere.<br /><br />The first story sets the theme, for \\"Danger - Human\\" (1957) vividly points out that there is more to mankind than meets the eye.  \\"Sleight of Wit\\" (1961) is a classic con game in strange circumstances.  \\"In the Bone\\" (1966) gets down to the basics.  \\"3-Part Puzzle\\" (1962) teaches a lesson about stereotyping.  \\"An Ounce of Emotion\\" (1965) refutes the idea that advanced technology instills rationality. \\"Brother Charlie\\" (1958) continues the lesson on intelligence versus rationality.<br /><br />\\"The Game of Five\\" (1960) is a companion piece to the novel Spacial Delivery, where a Consul drafts someone to complete a task and gets more than he expected.  \\"Tiger Green\\" (1965) is a story of a terrible misunderstanding on the part of an alien society.  \\"The Hard Way\\" (1963) is actually a longer story and has been published as a short novel;  the story is another variant of the theme of \\"3-Part Puzzle\\", but this time the aliens have never found any peers.  \\"Jackal's Meal\\" (1969) recapitulates a theme by Kipling.  \\"On Messenger Mountain\\" (1964), the longest story, is about versatility and instrumentality.  \\"The Catch\\" (1959) is about the perils of competency.<br /><br />The author is chauvinistic about humanity and more than a litte mystical in these stories.  Of course, you should know these tendencies if you have read his works.  While aliens herein are mostly used as foils for the competent humans, the author has also created a few alien characters in other works that were worthy partners, and sometimes mentors, for humanity.<br /><br />The author often portrays human characters whose performance exceeds their accepted limits.  He contends that genetics can strenghten human talents and introduce new ones and that such talents can be better trained.  However, the author usually extends this argument beyond reasonable bounds and then presents various reactions that such superior abilities might produce in human (and alien) society.<br /><br />Highly recommended for Dickson fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of daring and cunning exploits, with occasional humor.<br /><br />-Arthur W. Jordinn portrays human characters whose performance exceeds their accepted limits.  He contends that genetics can strenghten human talents and introduce new ones and that such talents can be better trained.  However, the author usually extends this argument beyond reasonable bounds and then presents various reactions that such superior abilities might produce in human (and alien) society.    Highly recommended for Dickson fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of daring and cunning exploits, with occasional humor.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-03-20
750829:US	49390985	R19CLBEY6S8UJU	0345435737	925808576	Jarka Ruus (High Druid of Shannara, Book 1)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Formulaistic Yet Enchanting	Jarka Ruus is the first novel in the High Druid of Shannara series.  A decade after the events of The Voyage of the Jerle Shannara, Grianne Ohmsford has fulfilled the wishes of Walker Boh and the other Druid shades by founding the Third Druid Council with herself as Ard Rhys.  Ignoring some heated objections, she has welcomed people of all races into the Council.  Many persons with magical talents have come to learn and to disseminate such learning among the Four Lands.<br />In this novel, despite these accomplishments, the High Druid has some heavy problems.  Many on the council and elsewhere cannot forget that she was once the Ilse Witch.  Conspiracies are forming within the Council itself.  Moreover, the leader of the Federation fears her and plans her downfall and the Elf King blames her for the deaths of his grandfather and father.<br />Grianne refuses to listen to advice from her closest associates regarding the conspirators, for she is afraid that she will revert to the persona of the Ilse Witch.  She has turned her back on her previous behavior to the extent of denial of even reasonable suspicions and precautions.  As a result, she is caught in a magical trap that transfers her to Jarka Ruus.<br />When she disappears, the conspirators move to take over the Council.  Tagwen, the High Druid's administrative associate, leaves to find her brother, Bek Ohmsford, but instead gains the help of Pen Ohmsford, the teenage son of Bek and Rue Meridian.  As Tagwen and Pen flee the conspirators, their airboat is blown into the land of the King of the Silver River, who saves them from their pursuers and sets them on a quest to rescue Grianne from her exile.  Pen worries about his role in this quest, for he has only a minor magical talent, but apparently his abilities are the key to the release of his aunt.<br />The cast in this story includes Ahren Elessedil, now a fully trained druid, and his niece Khyber, who is learning druid lore from Ahren.  During their journey, theyalso meet Cinnaminson Hatch, a blind Rover girl with mysterious powers;  Pen first becomes infatuated with Cinnaminson and then falls in love.  However, her father is not about to let an outsider take his girl away from him.<br />Pen provides a degree of humor in this story as he goes through the typical stages of teenage love.  He has trouble concentrating on anything else for very long.  One moment he feels that he can do anything and the next he feels ineffectual.  He makes excuses to himself in order to be near her.  However, he also begins to feel that he is part of a duality with Cinnaminson.<br />This story contains many of the familiar trappings of the Shannara series, including the wishsong and the Elfstones.  There is even a cameo appearance by the shade of the Warlock Lord.  However, the realm of Jarka Ruus is new scenery to the reader, with dangers only mentioned in old legends.  With the High Druid stranded amidst these dangers, many of us will be anxiously awaiting Tanequil, the next installment in this saga.<br />Highly recommended for Brooks fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of high adventure and magic, with a touch of romance.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-03-11
750954:US	49390985	R3CQTDIPVJNDZQ	0756401755	549026230	Fire And Sword: Keys Of Power #2	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Corruption in Grenda Lear	Fire and Sword is the second novel in the Keys of Power series, following Inheritance.   In the previous volume, Lynan was pursued by a unit of mercenaries sent by Rendle and was grievously wounded before the Chetts arrived to drive off the attackers.  Jenrosa dripped a concoction of haethu and wood vampire blood into his mouth and he regained consciousness with a scream.  Areava was crowned as Queen of Grenda Lear and her betrothal to Prince Sendarus of Aman was announced.  Jes Prado escaped from Rendle and headed toward Kendra to tell Areava that Lynan was still alive.  Olio began to drink heavily to help him sleep after healing sessions with the Key of the Heart.<br />In this novel, Lynan has turned pale and is troubled by bright sunlight since drinking the vampire blood and he is also troubled by dreams of Silona.  He has recovered from his wounds, but he has also gained an enormous strength when aroused, even killing a grass wolf with his bare hands.  The Chetts see him as the White Wolf returned and worship him as an avatar of the god.  After Ager demonstrates his proficiency with the sword before the chiefs, Lynan convinces most of the Chetts to let Kumul and Ager train them in new tactics.<br />One disgruntled chief, together with his wife and son, ambush Ager and Gudon and die for their efforts.  Then that clan sends a delegation to tell Ager that, since he has defeated the previous chief, he is now the new clan chief.  Of course, he also has to swear allegiance to Korigan as the Queen, but Korigan swears to ask nothing of him that violates his prior commitments to Lynan;  when Lynan agrees to the arrangements,  Ager accepts the offer and becomes chief of the Ocean clan.<br />King Salokan of Hakus sends Rendle with 2500 cavalrymen through little known passes into the Ocean of Grass to capture Lynan.  Queen Areava send Prado with 4000 mercenaries through the Algonka Pass to kill Lynan.  King Salokan takes 30,000 soldiers over his border with Hume and lays siege to Daavis.  Queen Areava has already send several thousand cavalrymen to garrison Daavis and she now sends the heavy cavalry of Twenty Families with more light cavalry and thousands of heavy and light infantry to reinforce Daavis.  Unknown to anyone in the east, Lynan is gathering his forces as well and they are headed east.  These forces are facing a major confrontation.<br />Olio continues to heal the ill and wounded in the new hospice, but Magicker Prelate Edaytot and Primate Northam are greatly concerned with his exhaustion and drinking.  Areava finds out about his drinking and chides him for it, but is not aware of his healings.  Olio promises to quit drinking but he is troubled with dreams of being unable to heal a dying Lynan.<br />In this story, the looming war becomes a reality.  Lynan and the Chetts confront the former slavers who have returned to capture or kill Lynan.  Sendarus leads the reinforcements to Daavis, wearing the Key of the Sword.  Olio finds the strength to heal on his own, but the Key starts to claim his will.  The conspirators continue their machinations and even expand their treasonous activities to others who have no knowledge of the original plot.<br />Recommended for Brown fans and for anyone else who enjoys political intrigue and military conflict in a fantasy setting.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-03-10
752980:US	49390985	R3I1QUEZYW6DL4	0756401623	853363157	Inheritance: Keys Of Power #1	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Conspiracy Against Grenda Lear	Inheritance is the first novel in the Keys of Power series.  Usharna is the Queen of Grenda Lear and all its realms, comprising eleven states and six million people.  She has been married three times.  Her first consort was Milgrom Kolls, a scion of the Twenty Families and father of the eldest son and heir, Berayma.  Her second consort was Tafe Amptra, another scion of the Twenty Families and father of Areava and Olio;  during the Slaver War, Tafe played one side against the other and was confronted by the Queen, forced to confess by the Keys of Power, and burned to a smoking husk for his treason.  Thereafter, Usharna married for love, taking the great general Elynd Chisal as her consort, and she bore Lynan as her fourth child;  Chisal was assassinated when Lynan was only a young child.<br />In this novel, Lynan is a somewhat rebellious boy.  He often searches the taverns of Kendra for veterans of the Slaver War who might know something about his father.  One day he encounters Ager Parmer, a former soldier who has been gravely wounded at Deep River, introduces himself using the name of his servant Piram, and plies him with drink while listening to the details of the battle.  While they are talking, Kumul Alarn, the Constable of the Royal Guards, comes to retrieve Lynan back to the castle.  The two men recognize each other from their service with Lynan's father, but their reunion is interrupted by an attempt to assassinate the prince.  Ager is injured very severely and the Queen performs a healing on his wound using the Key of the Heart.<br />Later, the dying Queen calls her children together in front of witnesses and gives each of them one of the Keys of Power.  Berayma receives the Monarch's Key, the Key of the Scepter;  Areava receives the Key of the Sword;  Olio receives the Key of the Heart; and Lynan receives the Key of Union.  After the short ceremony, all leave the Queen to her rest and depart;  Usharna dies in her sleep shortly thereafter.<br />After the Queen's funeral, the new King is assassinated and Lynan is blamed for the deed.  Piram had been ordered to bring Lynan to the King, but could not find him anywhere.  Reporting back to the King, he sees the assassins at the scene and flees to warn his master.  First retrieving his master's sword and belt from his rooms, he continues to search and finally finds Lynan with the Magicker Jenrosa Alucar in one of the tower rooms.  They flee toward the Royal Guard stables, are overtaken by guards allied with the assassins, and Piram is killed in the action.  Kumul and Ager appear and save the prince and magicker and they all ride out of the castle to hide with a friend of Kumul.<br />Areava is now the Queen and fully believes that Lynan was one of those who killed Berayma.  She orders every effort to be made to find Lynan and return him for justice.  Then she starts to organize her administration.<br />This story is a comedy of errors, with lethal consequences.  Usharna intentionally ignored Lynan as a child in order to protect him from her enemies, but consequently Berayma and Areava treated Lynan as a commoner himself;  only Olia treats Lynan with love and respect.  Berayma is very noble in his concerns, but blind to the machinations of the Twenty Families.  Areava hates the Twenty Families, but thinks that only the nobility are honorable.  After Usharna gives Lynan the Key of Union, Berayma comes to see Lynan in a different light and plans on promoting his position as spokesman for the commonwealth.  However, Areava still sees Lynan as dishonorable and a hazard to the kingdom.  Olia disagrees but is unable to argue effectively against his beloved sister.<br />Thus, Lynan finds himself fleeing for his life, not knowing whether his sister is one of the conspirators against Berayma, but understanding that she is now his greatest enemy, determined to capture and punish him for his supposed misdeeds.  Lynan must flee as fast and far as he can, even to the Ocean of Grass in thefar west, where the Northern Chetts roam and guard their herds.  Since the mother of Elynd Chisal was a Chett, Lynan and his companions hope that they will find sanctuary and assistance among these nomads.<br />The treatment of Lynan by his mother and siblings is rather hard to believe, for Usharna seems to be fully aware of the degree of animosity she faces with the Twenty Families.  Why didn't she just ignore their jibes and increase the guard around Lynan?  Showing her love toward the boy couldn't have hurt his position with the people and his siblings, so why defer to the prejudices of the aristocracy!  Areava's feelings also seem a bit much for someone who already despises the aristocracy, so why then does she cling to the attitude of noblesse oblige?  A little more trust among these siblings would have diverted the whole affair into a much different direction.<br />Recommended for anyone who enjoys tales of falsely accused princes who have to gather an army to regain their inheritance.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-03-09
757116:US	49390985	R1QD98CNBDF1D	0575068795	769506056	Redemption Ark (GollanczF.)	Books	5	6	9	N	N	The Consequences of the Dawn War	Redemption Ark is the third novel in the Revelation Space series, following [[ASIN:0441008356 Revelation Space]]. In the previous volume, the Nostalgia for Infinity has retrieved forty hell-class weapons from a hidden cache and carried them away. The Captain and crew know very little about the weapons, but Ila Volyova is the closest to a resident expert. While an Ultra herself, Volyova doesn't carry any implants at all, so she has acquired, modified and trained Boris Nagorny to be the Gunnery Officer. Unfortunately, Nagorny had a psychotic episode, tried to kill her, and ended up dead himself.    The ship's Captain, John Armstrong Brannigan, has been mostly consumed by the nanoplague, which has also spread to the ship systems themselves. Volyova has reduced the Captain's temperature to cryogenic levels and tried various anti-nanite measures with no success. So the lighthugger has came to Yellowstone in the Epsilon Eridani system to procure the services of Dan Sylveste to treat the Captain's condition. However, Sylveste was no longer there, having gone to Resurgam in the Delta Pavonis system.    Ana Khouri was an ex-soldier and assassin impressed into the service of the Mademoiselle, who had Khouri's husband in a reefer. The Mademoiselle had plans for Dan Sylveste and Khouri was her chosen agent to execute these plans. Nonetheless, a copy of the Mademoiselle would be riding an implant within Khouri's brain during the mission.     Ila Volyova needed a gunner to replace Nagorny. When Khouri applied for a ride to Delta Pavonis, Volyova covertly tested her aptitudes and implants and then snapped her up as a crewmember. But Volyova also deeply conditioned Khouri for loyalty before allowing her to join the crew.    In this novel, the Nostalgia for Infinity has survived its excursion against the deadly machines on, in and near Cerberus and Khouri has returned from the dead. Volyova has allowed the Captain to warm up and he has effectively become the ship itself. The rest ofthe crew were killed in the mutiny.    Khouri has briefed Volyova on the knowledge obtained within Hades, the neutron star that is also a gigantic computing machine. Now they are aware that the Inhibitors will probably be returning to destroy human life on Resurgam just as they had previously destroyed the Amarantin and so many other intelligent species throughout the galaxy. Khouri and Volyova have devised a scheme to evacuate Resurgam, but they don't know how much time they have. Fortunately they have already laid the groundwork when the machines appear and start disassembling three rocky moons within the system.    Volyova has been trying to get the Captain to approve the use of the hell-class weapons against the Inhibitors. However, the Captain is none too sane; he is feeling deep guilt for his treatment of Sakaji and goes catatonic whenever she brings up the subject of using the weapons. She has discovered, quite by accident, that all the weapons have an autonomic subpersona with a modicum of free will, but the Captain still has overriding priority.    The Conjoiners have decided that they want their weapons back. They decide to press Clavain to join the Closed Council so that he can lead the effort to retrieve the weapons. When he agrees, he is informed of the presence of the wolves, a machine intelligence that has possessed his beloved Galiana and killed all her crew. When he inspects the ships that will be made available to him, he decides that the Conjoiners are planning to abandon the rest of humanity to the wolves. He immediately takes action to defect from the Conjoiners.    Clavain has major obstacles in his mission to protect the rest of human from the dangerous wolves. He had defected to the Conjoiners 400 years ago from their enemies when he was convinced that his side was wrong. Now he is doing it again and may be making some headway, but he is stolen from the Demarchists and Ferrisville Convention forces by a mysterious Mr. H, who has very extensive connections.    While parts of this novel follow directly from Revelation Space, other portions refer back to Chasm City and still another backstory concerning the Conjoiners is introduced as well. This series seems to be written as a tapestry of plotlines that show up as minor details in one story and become a major thread in another. Moreover, the stories themselves have the same feel of plot elements woven in one scene that recur in later events. In fact, some components, such as the Mademoiselle, become even deeper mysteries in subsequent volumes. Somehow I don't think that the next volume, Absolution Gap, is going to resolve everything.    Remember everything. Trust nothing. Take notes. It will all be important later.    Highly recommended for Reynolds fans and for anyone else who enjoys suffering withdrawal pains between installments and truly contorted plot twists when the next volume arrives.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-03-06
758142:US	49390985	R2QRP1ADI59LT2	0886778581	174499108	Green Rider	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Learning the Hard Way	Green Rider is the first novel in the Green Rider series. Karigan G'ladheon is the daughter of a merchant of Corsa who only wants to travel widely like her father. She has been sent to Selium for schooling, but she just didn't fit in with most of the staff and students. When the dean suspended her for an indefinite period after she thoroughly defeated a bully in the practice ring, Karigan walked out and headed home by herself.    In this novel, Karigan encounters a dying Green Rider, F'ryan Coblebay, who persuades her to deliver the King's messages in his place and then swears her to the service on his sword. Coblebay has been shot in the back with two black arrows. When Karigan takes over his task, she quickly finds that his murderers are now pursuing her.    Karigan has taken Coblebay's sword and cloak as well as his horse. When she is confronted by the mercenary leader of the men following her, she finds that the cloak brooch can make her, and the horse, invisible to the pursuers. Later, she learns from the Berry sisters, who were kind enough to invite her to brunch, that she is being accompanied and protected by Coblebay's ghost and that the brooch is an arcane relic. Moreover, the brooch has accepted her as a Green Rider.    In this story, Karigan soon regrets her oath, but perseveres anyway, despite monsters, mercenaries and the Wild Ride. She continually has reasons to rue her lack of scholarship, for she learns too many things the hard way as she tries to evade her pursuers and reach Sacor City. Meanwhile, her enemies are expending time and resources attempting to intercept her and the messages. Moreover, the Green Riders are also searching for her with considerable puzzlement.    This story almost has too much excitement. Karigan is repeatedly found by her pursuers and then escapes with the assistance of her friends or her ghostly guardian. Nonetheless, the story remains interesting without ever quite reaching the level of melodrama.    Highly recommended for anyone who enjoys tales of plucky heroines reluctantly involved in high adventure.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-03-05
759953:US	49390985	R5WNUGCDJLJZO	0743471563	547908554	This Scepter'd Isle (The Doubled Edge, Book 1)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Sidhe Behind the Scenes in the Court of Henry the Eighth	This Scepter'd Isle (2004) is a prequel to the SERRAted Edge series.  During the reign of Henry the Eighth of England, the Farseers of both the Seleighe and the Unseleighe gained visions of a red-haired babe who could possibly reign over an England of unprecedented prosperity and achievement.  Although none knew who the babe would be, the Seleighe Farseers, with the assistance of Aleneil Silverhair, determined that Henry Fitzroy, the King's illegitimate son, was the key to the realization of that particular future.  Aleneil also perceived that her brother, Denoriel Silverhair, must be Harry's guardian, protecting him from all harm.    In this novel, Denoriel gains admittance to the English court in the guise of a Hungarian nobleman, Lord Denno, and gains access to Harry in the household of Lord Norfolk.  After foiling an attempt to drown Harry, Lord Denno becomes an accepted and frequent quest at the Norfolk estate.  Gradually, Denoriel adds his agents to Harry's household as grooms and servants and also provides protective amulets to Harry's guardsmen.  Later, Denoriel contrives excuses to visit Harry on a regular basis after the household is moved to Sheriff Hutton in the north country.    At first, the Unseleighe are unaware of Harry's special role in furthering the reign of the red-haired babe.  However, the Unseleighe take a closer look at the possibilities after Denoriel saves Harry from a drowning attempt by mortal henchmen and, this time, they notice that Harry is a key player in the struggle.  Now they start trying to kidnap him and to put a changeling in his place.    In this story, Vidal Dhu uses Pasgen and Rhoslyn Silverhair, half-siblings to Denoriel and Aleneil, to counter the Seleighe efforts to bring the red-haired babe to the throne.  Dhu wishes to make Mary, the daughter of Catherine of Aragon, the reigning queen since she would bring the Inquisition to England, resulting in unimaginable death and suffering.  The Unseleighe keep trying to frustrateKing Henry in his attempts to annul the marriage to Catherine while the Seleighe try to keep Harry Fitzroy alive and free.  Later, the Seleighe also try to keep Anne Boleyn from consummating her relationship with Henry prior to their marriage.    This story works on three levels.  At the top is the public events surrounding the efforts of Henry of England to gain a legitimate male heir.  At the next level are the private maneuvers of the king and his ministers, King Francis, Emperor Charles, the Pope and other mortals.  Below that is the covert struggles between the Seleighe and Unseleighe Courts.    This story incorporates vast chunks of actual history, drawing many of its scenes from recorded events.  However, there is a certain amount of interpretation involved and many of the scenes are more or less fabricated to incorporate the Sidhe.  Despite all this, the story is a fascinating glimpse of a version of history that never happened.  One feels impelled to discover the real events behind this fiction.  Also, a sequel to this novel, Ill Met by Moonlight, is currently under development, so look for more adventures in this milieu.    Highly recommended for Lackey or Gellis fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales with historical characters interacting with wizards, witches and Elves.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-03-04
762170:US	49390985	R110I545YCQXXB	0441011349	257317250	Angel-Seeker: A Novel of Samaria	Books	5	42	49	N	N	The Best Laid Plans ...	Angel-Seeker (2004) is the fifth novel in the Samaria series, but is the sequel to Archangel in internal sequence.  In the previous volume, Raphael was the archangel of Samaria.  From his hold at Windy Point, he ruled over both humans and angels, changing traditions and corrupting his followers.  Raphael married a Jansai women and took other Jansai as followers, even allowing them to enslave the Edori.    Finally, Raphael denied any need to sing praises to Jovah and brought his followers to Mount Galo to wait out the entire day which had been appointed for singing the Gloria.  After the sun went down, Raphael announced that he was their god and the thunderbolts sizzled out of the sky to destroy him and all who were with him.  A great storm blew over Samaria, the skies opened up, rain fell in torrents, and the rivers began to flood.      The next day, Gabriel lead the survivors in singing the Gloria and the skies calmed and peace returned to Samaria.  Gabriel was chosen as the Archangel as foreseen by the oracles.  He even convinced Rachel to marry him and become the Angelica.    In this novel, the angels have abandoned Windy Point and have begun to build another city of angels in Jordana.  Cedar Hills is unlike any other angel hold, for it is down on the plains, easily accessible by ordinary humans.  Gabriel appoints Nathan to rule the new city and so Nathan takes Magdalena, his new bride, and a group of Monteverde angels there to reestablish proper relations with the landholders who have been slighted for so long.    Gabriel has banned the enslavement of Edori and freed all the slaves.  Now the Jansai are moaning about their economic difficulties.  Since Nathan already has enough problems to handle, Gabriel sends Obadiah to handle relations with the Jansai.  Shortly after moving to Cedar Hills, Obadiah flies to Breven and meets with Uriah, the acknowledged leader of the Jansai.  After concluding his visit, Obadiah is flying back to Cedar Hills when, suddenly, he isshot out of the sky.    Obadiah manages to crash into a small oasis, but hasn't got the strength to attend to his wounds.  He is found there by a young Jansai woman, Rebekah, and she covertly tends him for several days while he recovers, but eventually she has to leave with her family.  Shortly thereafter, Obadiah flies out of the desert, but has a relapse in mid-air and crashes once again, causing additional injuries.  He has been seen falling out of the sky and is quickly found and placed in a trader wagon to be taken for treatment in Cedar Hills.    Elizabeth is a young women who has come to Cedar Hills as an angel-seeker, a woman trying to become pregnant by an angel in order to bear an angel child.  Mothers of angels are very well treated, but most pregnancies between angels and ordinary humans do not produce angel progeny.  She has met Obadiah briefly and soon comes to know him rather well after she helps tend his wounds and then is assigned the additional duties of periodically checking his condition and tending his needs.    In this story, the lives of these two women are opposed in many ways.  Elizabeth is an orphan who comes from a wealthy family who fell upon hard times;  she was living with a distant relative and working as a cook before she fled to Cedar Hills.  Elizabeth wants to become pregnant by an angel, but has no real affection for her paramour.    Rebekah is living with her step-father, mother, two brothers and other family members in a fair amount of comfort.  She is leery of Jansai men, but believes that her betrothed is kindly enough.  Yet she has begun to develop warm feelings, even longings, toward the angel Obadiah.    Elizabeth is a very independent woman who has already proved her willingness to change her circumstances according to her own desires.  Rebekah, while is a fairly liberal thinker for a Jansai woman, just cannot convince herself that she could possibly withstand the heartaches of leaving her family and circumstances.  What surprises will destiny bring?    The author continues her accounts of intercultural conflicts on Samaria and its consequences.  As with Archangel, the pairings herein suffer from inadvertent miscues and other misunderstandings, adding a layer of comedy to the actions of the protagonists.  While the major characters have entirely admirable personas, they are contrasted with all sorts of unfeeling and corrupted individuals, from Elizabeth's relative James and his wife Angeletta to the angel David to the Jansai men of Breven.  Once again, the author has provided an intricate portrayal of an exotic society and its populace, with special emphasis on their romantic involvements.    Highly recommended for Shinn fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of exotic cultures and strange ways.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-03-02
762601:US	49390985	R112J4FT4S7SFG	0345457714	203262778	Broken Angels (Takeshi Kovacs)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A Long Time a Coming	Broken Angels is the second novel in the Takeshi Kovacs series, following Altered Carbon.  In the previous volume, Kovacs had been needlecast to Earth, where he was impressed into investigating the temporary death of Laurens Bancroft, a Methuselah;  that is, a rich, powerful and very old man.  Larurens had apparently committed suicide just prior to the scheduled upload of his persona to backup.  Kovacs waded through the sleazy environment in the back alleys of Bay City to learn the true circumstances of the death and even inflicted a little vengeance on a scum bag named Kawahara.<br />In this novel, Kovacs is a Lieutenant in Carrera's Wedge on Sanction IV.  After a nasty firefight, he is evacuated to the hospital ship for treatment and recovery from wounds.  There he meets Jan Schneider and learns of a Martian artifact that had been discovered just prior to Kemp's rebellion.  Kovacs joins Schneider to free Tanya Wardani, an Archaeological Guild Master, from a government refugee camp.  Wardani's find is a gate, a hyperspatial link to the outer Sanction system where a Martian dreadnought has been parked for millennia.<br />Kovacs, Schneider and Wardani gain the attention, and respect, of a corporate executive at Mandrake Corporation, one of the smaller, but growing, multisystem businesses.  Hand agrees to pay them twenty million, plus needlecasts back to Latimer, for the discovery.  With a group of veterans from the Soul Market, Kovacs and company camp out near the gate and Wardani starts to persuade the gate to open.<br />This story discloses much more about the Martians, an alien species named for the site of the original find, whose artifacts are spread across human space.  In fact, Martian star maps guided the first human interstellar ships across the void to Earth compatible planets.  Now humans have found a functional starship for the first time, a literally priceless discovery.<br />While the technology is very advanced, the cultures in this story have all thehuman flaws and foibles.  Kemp is leading the rebellion of a society based on statist principals much like Marxist-Leninist communism.  The Protectorate is an extension of the largest multisystem corporations, who are focused on the bottom line.  Even with human persona downloads, and synthetic sleeves to house them, the death rate in the war between these two factions is enormous.<br />The story provides several examples of individuals with high certainty in the rightness of their efforts, all of whom use humans tools to obtain their goal.  Moreover, these people are not reluctant to expend the souls and bodies of any number of persons in such pursuits.  Sounds familiar, doesn't it!<br />This series demonstrates the excellence of the author as a writer, but the story itself is so intriguing that his writing skills are overwhelmed by the plot.  Most of the concepts used in this series have been around for years;  for example, Gallun's People Minus X included the download of human personas to synthetic bodies.  However, the synergic effects of such ideas in this series actually produces a type of future shock.<br />Highly recommended for Morgan fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of tainted heroes dealing with human corruption and duplicity.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-03-02
763169:US	49390985	RI5WH6SWEY3GT	0743471873	811662950	The Road to Damascus (Bolo)	Books	5	18	31	N	N	A Higher Duty	The Road to Damascus is a Bolo Brigade novel.  This series was created by Keith Laumer, who is known for putting these powerful intelligent fighting machines in difficult political and moral situations.  Now the authors of this novel carry that treatment one step further.<br />Unit SOL-0045, Sonny, a Mark XX Bolo, was brought to the planet Jefferson to guard against an invasion by the Deng.  Although these aliens have raided worlds in this sector in the past, now they have been forced out of their own home worlds by other aliens and have been seizing human worlds for their refugees.  Sonny and his commander, Simon Khrustinov, arrived just in time for the alien breakthrough.<br />Kafari Camar returned from her offworld schooling on Mali just prior to the alien landings.  She was flying home when the invasion stranded her in Klameth Canyon within the Ghamal family cellar.  Unfortunately, a Deng ship has landed on the other side of the road and aliens soldiers were moving into the farmyard.<br />Sonny, Simon and Kafari all become war heroes.  After the war, Sonny and Simon are permanently assigned to Jefferson to guard against a recurrence of the alien invasion.  Simon and Kafari fall in love, marry and have a little girl named Yalena.<br />In this novel, Vittori Santorin, a ruthless yet charming politician, is elected as President of Jefferson, despite some irregularities in absentee ballots.  Santorin gradually turns Jefferson into a police state.  When Simon and Kafari disappear, Santorin uses his position to convince Sonny to assist him in destroying rebel forces.<br />Sonny is not happy with obeying orders from Santorin, especially after his government uses war gasses against protesters and viral agents against Granger rebels in Klameth Canyon.  However, Sonny believes that he is duty bound to obey orders from the government.  Then he is sent into Klameth Canyon to destroy the remaining rebel forces.<br />On his way to the dam at the head of the canyon, Sonny encounters a young child with a toy popgun and a stuffed animal.  The youngster refuses to let Sonny pass because the noise will wake up his mother.  Sonny finds that he cannot force himself to hurt the child in any way.  His tracks lock up, his guns won't fire and, after one attempt, he can't even make a loud noise.  Something in his primary programming is blocking his effector systems.<br />This story takes place in a familiar milieu and is written by two popular authors.  Although probably not a candidate for high awards, this story should be a comfortable and fun read for most fans of military science fiction.  Moreover, Sonny's psychological journey to realize the nature of his primary duty greatly increases the fun. <br />Highly recommended for Bolo Brigade fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of intelligent machines dealing with moral dilemmas.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-03-02
764979:US	49390985	R3U82GEP1K8IZ6	076530693X	193033614	Gunpowder Empire (Crosstime Traffic)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Life Among the Short-Lived	Gunpowder Empire (2003) is the first novel in the Crosstime Traffic series. In the near future, economic conditions continued to worsen as oil reserves were drained and global warming intensified. Inflation drastically increased the cost of goods and services. The world was sliding into a worldwide depression.    In mid century, however, Galbraith and Hester discovered a means of accessing alternate timelines. The world began to import petroleum, food and ideas from these other timelines. The economies of the advanced countries started to turn around and grow, but other economies barely improved.    In this novel, at the end of century, Jeremy and Amanda Solters are children of Crosstime Traffic employees. Every summer, the Solters live in Polisso of Dacia within the Agrippan Rome alternate, trading simple mechanisms and manufactured goods for grain. As in previous years, they ride the transposition chamber across the timelines to a cave outside Polisso, carry a load of mechandise into the town, see the Stone family off to return to the mainline, and settle into the house for their tour of duty.     While Polisso is part of a civilization that has existed for two millenia, the local technological level has not advanced much since the days of the Roman Republic. The town has paved streets, storm drains (in the more affluent sections) and public baths, but town still stinks of horse manure, sewage and unwashed humanity. The Solters hope that their olfactory systems will quickly become acclimated to the stench.    Since the house contains advanced devices and other secrets, including a concealed subbasement for the transposition chamber, the Solters do all their own housework rather than using slaves or servants; in fact, they are expressly forbidden to buy slaves. Moreover, Agrippan Rome is a very patriarchial society, with strict customs concerning the roles of men and women; thus, Amanda and her mother do all the cooking and cleaning, using only primitive methods. Making your own bread by grinding the wheat in a quern and kneading it by hand is one of the less attractive features of this timeline.    In this story, Melissa Solter becomes ill and has to return to the mainline. John goes with her, leaving their children behind. All goes well at first, although a war seems to be brewing between Rome and Lietuvia. Then the communications access to the mainline goes down and stays out of service for weeks. The city prefect starts asking questions about their parents and the source of their merchandise. The war heats up and Polisso is besieged by the Lietuvans. Cannons are firing into the town, destroying buildings and killing people. Jeremy and Amanda are really unhappy about their situation.    The author provides a vivid portrayal of a way of life very different from contemporary Western living. Although this is SF, similar lifestyles could be found in many places in the real world during the past millenium. While this is a young adult novel, it is also a fascinating read for older readers as well, combining the best in entertainment and education. One wishes that the author had more time to do historical fiction, for he has a flair for setting the reader into the heart of the story.    The author dedicates this work to Robert A. Heinlein, Andre Norton and H. Beam Piper. Piper probably created the most extensive alternate timeline multiverse in SF with his Paratime series, establishing a demand for such stories back in the 1960s. However, Norton had already used alternate universes and timelines from the 1950s, including the novel Quest Crosstime. To the best of my knowledge, Heinlein didn't write any alternate timeline novels, although Farnham's Freehold used the concept.    Both Heinlein and Norton wrote novels -- such as Tunnel in the Sky and Eye of the Monster -- about teenagers left to their own devices in hostile territory. Heinlein's Citizen of the Galaxy also has several similarities to this tale, particularly in terms ofcultural shocks; people from technologically advanced cultures would probably not be accustomed to slavery or gladiatorial games. Moreover, the killing of animals just for the fur would probably be just as big a shock to our descendants. One wonders how the Solters reacted to their first exposure to an outdoor butcher shop!    The author probably should have mentioned one other SF writer: Murray Leinster. Will F. Jenkins, under that pseudonym, wrote Sideways in Time (published in 1934), which may have been the very first crosstime story. A number of authors in addition to Norton and Piper have used this concept in the ensuing decades.    Highly recommended for Turtledove fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of young persons coping with other cultures and customs.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-02-29
768331:US	49390985	RQWF0O06XDH3K	0060505680	923775450	The Assassin's Edge: The Fifth and Final Tale of Einarinn	Books	5	7	9	N	N	The Final Assault	The Assassin's Edge is the fifth novel in the Tales of Einarinn series, following The Warrior's Bond.  In the previous volume, the Emperor has averted a growing conflict among the Houses over trade with Kellarin, opening such trade to all Houses.  Moreover, he has foiled Tor Bezaemar's efforts to hamper the restoral of the magically dormant settlers of Kellarin.  Furthermore, he has recognized Temar D'Alsennin as Sieur of his House with Kellarin as his domain and has designated other surviving nobles in Kellarin as cadet branches of House D'Alsennin.<br />While the Emperor's decisions do not please everybody, D'Alsennin has gained the most from them and Tor Bezaemar has profited very little if any.   D'Olbriot lost its monopoly, but still has very good relations with D'Alsennin.  Sieur D'Olbriot, however, has released Ryshad from his service, citing conflicting loyalties, yet bestowed a generous parting gift in gold coin and promised an excellent recommendation.<br />In this novel, Ryshad and Livak have sailed to Kellarin and joined the colony.  Ryshad is acting as steward to the Sieur D'Alsennin and Livak has been keeping busy with various activities.  She is thinking of becoming a wine merchant, using her contacts in Tormalin and elsewhere to ship the merchandise to her.<br />Unfortunately, shipping has become a problem.  When the first ship of the season fails to appear on time, the settlers are worried.  But when Guinalle receives a sending from Parrail indicating that his ship has been captured, the Kellarin leadership soon looks for the problem and discovers that pirates on Suthyfer are intercepting ships coming to Kellarin.  An expedition is formed to clear the islands of pirates and release the captives.<br />In this story, the expedition leadership finds that the pirates have magical assistance from Elietimm adepts.  Once again, Ryshad, Livak and their friends are facing the hostile magic of the Ice Islanders.  They decide that it is time to confront theseenemies on their own soil.<br />This is the final volume in the Tales of Einarinn series.  However, this world has room for other stories, past or future, and such would surely delight the readership.  Let us hope that the author hasn't totally abandoned this world.<br />Highly recommended for McKenna fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of various forms of magics in conflict, as well some desperate blade work.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-02-27
769812:US	49390985	R3P4H4XMS77XSJ	1592220231	25863595	To Ride Hell's Chasm	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Protecting the Princess	To Ride Hell's Chasm is a singleton fantasy novel.  The Kingdom of Sessalie is a quiet highland realm that longs for an outlet to the sea.  The King and Chancellors have arranged a marriage for Princess Anja with the High Prince of Devall to gain treaty access to their seaport and the two royals have fallen deeply in love.  The High Prince has returned to Sessalie for the upcoming betrothal ceremony and the town has become a madhouse of wild and drunken celebration.    In this novel, Captain Mykkael and his Garrison troopers have had busy   days and busier nights.  Mykkael hasn't slept in twenty hours and barely has the energy to tend to his lame knee.  His sword shows use and needs a good cleaning if he can find time.  The rumors have been varied and fantastic, including a new one that Princess Anja has disappeared.  Then he is summoned to appear before the King.    The rumor doesn't have the half of it.  The princess has apparently fled on her own and is no longer anywhere in the castle, town or environs.  The Seneshal is frantically worried that the betrothal will be rejected by the High Prince, but the prince seems only to be deeply concerned for the princess, urging all possible measures to find her.  Commander Taskin of the Palace Guard has men searching all of the princess's old childhood hiding places within the castle, but soon has to agree with Mykkael that the princess is no longer there.      A sorcerer's mark has been found in the castle cellars, but Mykkael knows that it is false, having had experience with the real thing.  In fact, Mykkael is almost the only man in Sessalie who knows anything about sorcery and demons, having fought against them on several occasions, and is one of the few survivors of the futile defense of Efandi before it was overwhelmed by sorcery.      Another sorcerer's mark is only too real, killing one of the few other men in the kingdom with the knowledge to defend against sorcery.  Other deaths also seem to have been caused bysorcery, even though some of the nobles blame Mykkael and try to force his trial for these deaths.  However, the King is well aware of the captain's history and charges him with responsibility for finding and protecting the princess.    This story is a study of a man with heavy responsibilities, horrific experiences, and sorrowful memories.  It is also a tale of the love that can develop between a man and woman enduring exhausting and terrible tests of stamina and perseverance.  Underlying it all is the threat of demons, bound sorcerers, and their minions.    Highly recommended for Wurts fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of loyalty, persistence, and competence in the midst of great trials.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-02-26
772237:US	49390985	RD0DQCK6VRLR7	0441011470	91484051	Burden of Proof (A Paul Sinclair Novel)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A Matter of Negligence	Burden of Proof is the second novel in this series, following Just Determination.  In the previous volume, the USS Michaelson destroyed a SASAL ship as ordered by Captain Peter Wakeman when he perceived that the other ship had powered up its weapons in preparation for a firing run,  but onsite investigation determined that the other ship had no major weapons.  The subsequent court-martial was ready to slam the captain, but Ensign Paul Sinclair, the ship's legal officer, testified that the ship's orders were vague, emphasizing the possibility of Q-ships, and thus set up the possibility of such a confrontation.  The court found Wakeman guilty only of minor charges and sentenced him to receive a letter of reprimand, but otherwise exonerated him of all other wrong doing.  Of course, he had already been relieved of command and would probably never receive another command, nor would he ever be promoted again, but he might retire without a major blot on his career.<br />In this novel, about a year later, Sinclair has just been promoted to Lieutenant Junior Grade.  Captain Gonzalez, who received interim command after Wakeman, is being replaced by Captain Hayes.    Lieutenant Carl Meadows, who is Command Duty Officer on the Sinclair's watch, has completed his third year aboard and is being replaced by Lieutenant Scott Silver.  Lieutenant Colleen Kilgary is taking over Meadows' job as Weapons Officer and Silver will take her job as Main Propulsion Assistant.  However, Silver will replace Meadows as Command Duty Officer on the second watch.<br />Silver soon impresses Sinclair as a charming individual, but also a slacker who lets everybody else do his work.  Then an explosion and fire occur one Saturday just before the second watch.  When Sinclair arrives on the bridge, it becomes obvious that Chief Asher, the Damage Control Officer, is not available, so he asks permission of the Officer of the Deck, Silver, to lead the damage control team in fighting the fire.  Silver okays his request and the damage control party goes in and cools down the fuel, which contains its own oxidizer, enough to flicker out.  The damage control party is then ordered out and replaced by a team from another ship.<br />The body of Chief Asher is found in the damaged compartment.  Although the fire suppression equipment was nonfunctional and the engineering log was damaged, the investigating officer did not find enough evidence to determine the cause of the destruction.  However, Petty Officer Sharpe, the ship's Master-at-Arms, requests permission to bring an expert onboard to examine the logs.  When Chief Warrant Officer Rose arrives, Sinclair provides him with physical access to a terminal and Rose looks for, and finds, evidence of computer cracking which occurred a few hours after the fire.  Sinclair reports this information to the Captain.<br />In this story, Sinclair once again sticks his neck out to serve justice as he sees it.  Despite his lack of desire to become a lawyer, Sinclair is becoming very familiar with naval law and court-martials.  He makes a few enemies on the way, but maintains the respect of those that mean the most to him.<br />As with the previous volume, this story reflects fairly recent events in the US Navy.  Although not that similar in detail, the explosion and fire are suggestive of the explosion in the #2 turret of the USS Iowa in 1989.  Of course, the Iowa disaster involved explosive propellants for the guns, but the fuel on the Michaelson is also a propellant, only with a slower burn rate so that it does not detonate.  The Michaelson incident was potentially much more deadly than the Iowa disaster;  spaceships are more vulnerable than sea-going battleships.<br />While I have not yet mentioned Sinclair's love life, it does have some relevance to the plot.  Early in the story, Lieutenant JG Jen Shen orders Sinclair to dine with her father aboard his command, the USS Mahan, and a good time was had by all ... NOT.  Captain Kay Shen is later assigned as the investigating officer for the incident on the Michaelson and bends over backwards to avoid any appearance of approving the actions of his daughter's boyfriend.  However, his report assigns no blame for the incident.<br />The storyline also continues the daring adventures of Seaman Alvarez, who seems to get sick frequently and then screws up because of it.  Somehow, the corpsmen never can find anything wrong, so she is often brought before the Captain's Mast as a troublemaker and malingerer.  When Alvarez appears at Captain Hayes' first mast, he clearly expresses his displeasure in her activities and record.<br />Highly recommended for Hemry fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of naval action and legal proceedings.	2004-02-24
773533:US	49390985	RKHVED13SUUEN	076530158X	365011657	Dune: The Machine Crusade	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Old Fashioned Space Opera	The Machine Crusade is the second novel in the Legends of Dune trilogy, following The Butlerian Jihad.  In the previous volume, the slaves on Earth revolted against their machine masters.  Amidst the confusion, Vorian Atreides escaped from Earth in the Dream Voyager, carrying Serena Butler, the body of her murdered child Manion, and Iblis Ginjo back to Salusa Secundus.  The Earth Omnius and the Titans broke the revolt, but Xavier Horkonnen later led the League Armada back to Earth to sow nuclear destruction over the face of the planet.  Vor captured the last memory update from the Earth Omnius, leaving the robot Seurat deactivated in the disabled update ship.  <br />The remnants of the League Armada left Earth as a radioactive wasteland and returned to a massive celebration.  Xavier and Vor received military honors for their victory.  Serena rededicated herself to the Jihad against the thinking machines.<br />In this novel, over a decade later, Xavier and Vor are defending IV Anbus, a Zenshiite planet, but are not getting any cooperation from the inhabitants.  The Jihad soldiers try to defend the planet on the ground by setting an ambush, yet the Zenshiites not only refuse to cooperate against the machines, but also drug the Jihad soldiers in their villages and sabotage their heavy weapons.  The Jihadis are faced with defeat on the planet, yet still manage to take out the machine horde, although with heavy loss of property and priceless religious artifacts.<br />The Jihad continues to gain ground against the machines, but at a high cost in human lives.  Disaffection grows among the civilian populace, but Iblis, now entitled the Grand Patriarch of the Jihad, uses his Jihad Police to weed out traitors and political opponents.  His Jihad Council has successfully usurped major powers from the League Parliament in order to increase the efficiency of the war against the machines.  Iblis has made covert arrangements throughout the League and Unallied Worlds to promote themachine crusade.<br />In this story segment, major changes occur in the political, military and technological sectors.  The foundations of the subsequent Empire begin to appear.  The planet Arrakis acquires the Fremen.  And the Atreides family appears on Caladan.<br />This volume moves the story in the direction of the new Empire, but somehow the progression of events doesn't seem to move smoothly.  Since this is a prequel to the prequels, the events herein are forced to fit previously revealed patterns, but the progressions are too jerky.  Moreover, the ambiance of this novel is very old-fashioned;  it reads somewhat like one of the Legion of Space stories from the 1940s.  This has been an ongoing characteristic of works by these authors, but this volume seems to have this quality to a greater extent than the other Dune novels.<br />Recommended for Dune fans and for anyone else who enjoys space opera with massive movements of military forces, grand political maneuvers, and glorious personal sacrifices.	2004-02-23
776327:US	49390985	R2Y0L2SJNMK9IM	0743436008	245812900	Interstellar Patrol	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Murphy's Law in Action	Interstellar Patrol is a collection of stories in the Colonization universe, including the early tales of Roberts, Hammell and Morrisey.  This volume also includes several other tales related to Federation agencies other than the IP.    The Paradise tales describe how the captain and crew of the Orion, an Interstellar Rapid Transport ship, found themselves stranded off the planet Boschock III, misnamed Paradise.  The Captain Vaughn Roberts, the cargomaster Hammell, and the comtech Morrissey brought the worst injured down to the planet in their tender, but crashed in the jungle outside the only city.  Nearby settlers took the injured back to their village for treatment in return for some weapons and ammo, but the city officials, under the overall command of the central computer, were less than helpful.      After escaping from the city, Roberts and Hammel returned to the tender to discover that Morrissey, having time on his hands, had stumbled across an unusual application of their communications system;  it generated a field that induced various emotions in anyone within range of the equipment.  Experimenting with the effect, they learned how to project and overlap several fields as desired.  Using this want-generator to control the emotions of the various factions on the planet, they created sufficient chaos that the central computer of the city decided to provide repairs to their ship and equipment just to get them offworld.    In subsequent visits to the planet, the trio found themselves somehow becoming responsible for the whole planet under the guise of Dukes of the Empire.  Then they found that the Interstellar Patrol had been observing their progress with interest and was offering them a chance to become recruits in that organization.    The Boot Camp tales introduce Dan Bergen, another IP recruit, as well as Colonel Valentine Sanders, who becomes their commanding officer.  In these stories, the IP submits the recruits to various tests, both to evaluate theircapabilities and to induce the proper attitudes.  Some of the tests are live and others are simulated, although it is hard to tell the difference.  However, it is better to be eaten alive by carnivorous fish in a simulation than in the real world, although the sensations are much the same.    The Others tales present a broader view of the Federation and various unaligned worlds.  A major theme in all these stories is interservice rivalry, particularly between the PDA and the Space Force.  Another ongoing theme in some of these stories, particularly the Stellar Scouts tales, is the failure of new and improved equipment under field conditions;  while some improved devices work as expected, others display quirky and sometimes harmful behavior in the real world.    All these stories say something about the foolishness of human beings.  The author has specialized in writing Murphy's Law yarns, where things go wrong in ways none had realized were possible.  The author has a rare insight and ability to illustrate the SNAFUs and FUBARs that haunt all human activities, particular in bureaucratic environments.  Although such stories are probably not as popular today, there are still enough readers with military, or corporate, experience to relate to these situations.    Only the first three stories have been previously published in book form, so this is a rare opportunity for those who don't have the original magazine versions.  However, there are many more out there slowly rotting in attics and basements.  The editor has promised that some of those will be appearing in the sequel volume(s).    Highly recommended for Anvil fans and for anyone else who enjoys seeing other people make foolish mistakes much like the ones we ourselves have made.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-02-21
779288:US	49390985	R2PL3K0CMOSVWJ	0765308029	661895496	The Ethos Effect	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Ethics in a Technocracy?	The Ethos Effect (2003) is a sequel of The Parafaith War.  In the previous volume, Major Trystin Desoll was a Major in the Eco-Tech Coalition forces.  The Coalition was hard pressed by the superior numbers of the Revenant forces that were attacking Eco-Tech worlds. Desoll undertook a dangerous mission to assassinate a Revenant admiral and archbishop, but added a spin of his own that led the Revenants to believe that the death was an expression of divine wrath.  This apparent act of God resulted in a cessation of the war and a rewriting of the Revenant holy writ.    In this novel, some two centuries later, the Revenants have again become expansionist and are crowding the Republic of Tara and other small polities in nearby systems.  Commander Van C. Albert is a veteran ship commander in the Taran Republic Space Force who had been responsible for the destruction of the Vetachi, a renegade terraforming vessel that had been rampaging among the commercial ships within that sector.  Unfortunately, the renegade had been stalking the Regneri, a colony ship, and the resulting explosion caused an errant torp to launch from the renegade and destroy the other ship.  Since then, Albert has been relegated to older ships and smaller commands.    Albert's current command, the RSFS Fergus, is preparing to jump to its next station when it receives an urgent message to change destinations to Gotland in the Scandya system to replace the RSFS Collyns.  Further orders will be sent by courier to Gotland.  Revising their jump coordinates, the Fergus transits to Scandya and is immediately attacked by an unidentified warship.  Albert's crew quickly responds to the attack and destroys the other ship.    Albert sends a battle report by message torp back to headquarters.  When questioned by the local self defense forces, Albert admits detecting unusual emissions from further outside the system, but denies any other knowledge.  When the Fergus achieves orbit around Gotland, a courier brings a replacement commander for the Fergus and orders for Albert himself to be reassigned as the the Naval Attach in the local Taran embassy.  He is to replace a fellow officer who was killed in a sailing accident.    Since Albert has not been receiving the plum career assignments, he has little training or knowledge of his embassy duties.  However, he starts gathering information from the records, other embassy staffers and his counterparts in the other embassies and the Scandyan SDF.  He is well and thoroughly ignored by the Revenant Naval Attach, but cooperatively received by his other peers and forms a good working relationship with the Second Secretary in his embassy.  From the information received from various sources, he begins to wonder about his predecessor's death and the situation in Scandya.    Then Albert foils an assassination of high Scandyan government officials and is severely wounded.  Although eventually restored to full health, he is recalled to Tara, where he is presented with a high award, promoted to Commodore, and retired from the service.  He soon finds that he is too highly qualified to work as a pilot, but still doesn't want to become a desk jockey.    During this time, he is offered a job by Trystin Desoll, now managing director of Integrated Information Systems, a developer of proprietary  business intelligence for multisystem corporations and governments.  The job has the title of senior director and will involve piloting one of the IIS courier ships as well as acting as a consultant to planetary managers and clientele.    When Albert finally accepts the job with IIS, he is provided with training on the corporation's proprietary systems and then sent on specific assignments.   From the business intelligence gathered by IIS and his own observations during these assignments, Albert begins to see a very dark and dangerous pattern emerging.  Apparently IIS is attempting to counter this pattern, but things are looking bad.    Albert also discovers that Desoll has close connections with the Farhkan aliens.  They seem to be interested in human affairs, but refrain from too close relationships with most humans.  Desoll seems to be an exception.    This story continues to examine the ethical questions raised in the previous volume regarding interference in other societies.  The Farhkans believe that such interference will corrupt their own society.  Desoll has interfered once before in Revenant society with mixed results.  So how can one society justify massive interference with another?    In contrast with the Farhkan viewpoint, the Revenants know that they are only obeying the will of God, so have no qualms about completely disrupting another society.  The Taran Republic seems to be developing an ethic of survival at all cost, which justifies any degree of intervention in another society and even their own.  Are these the only alternatives?    Highly recommended for Modesitt fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of social conflict and personal ethics.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-02-19
780487:US	49390985	R1VQ8VVY7IOAYT	0345467817	795102994	First Strike (Halo #3)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Thinking Out of the Box	First Strike is the third novel in the Halo series, following The Flood.  In the previous volume, the Master Chief and Cortana manage to set the Pillar of Autumn to blow her engines after she is taken by the Covenant forces.  The explosion blew a sector out of the ringworld, knocking out most of the alien systems.  Meanwhile the Helljumpers capture the Covenant command ship, but it is already overrun with Flood carrier and combat forms, so the marines crash the ship into Halo and take out all onboard.<br />In this novel, the Master Chief and Cortana are lurking in the vicinity of Halo in a Longsword attack craft.  They have repeatedly scanned the volume for other survivors, but none have been found.  However, they do discover an oversized Covenant ship coming out of slipspace.  Quickly powering down most systems to avoid detection, they discover that the Covenant flagship is using the same frequency bands as their equipment and Cortana manages to analyze the scattered returns sufficiently to register an object that they find to be a trio of cyropods.  <br />Using thrusters only, they maneuver the Longsword near the cyropods and the Master Chief goes EVA to bring them back inside.  Two Covenant cruisers enter the vicinity and start to move toward them.  However, a previously unnoticed Pelican drop ship hidden on an asteroid fires three missiles at the Covenanters and the cruisers turn to chase the Pelican.  The Master Chief hustles the pods onboard and Cortana seals the hatch and fires their engines.  As the Covenant ships lose the Pelican in the surrounding debris, the Master Chief takes the cruisers under fire and Cortana starts an evasion run.<br />The Master Chief, Cortana and those on the Pelican are at large, but unable to escape, since neither craft has a Shaw-Fujikawa drive.  In fact, the only slipspace capable vessels in the system are Covenant.  The Master Chief starts making plans to take over the Covenant flagship.<br />Meanwhile, in a flashback to the fall of Reach, it appears that the Covenant forces didn't glass the whole planet with plasma fire.  The area occupied by the top secret ONI facility, Castlebase, was not hit from orbit, but Covenant ground forces were starting to dig their way into the underground facility.  Several SPARTAN survivors from the orbital generator facility battle rally nearby, infiltrate the enemy, hijack two Wraith tanks, destroy the digging equipment, and then slip inside the base through another entrance.<br />In this story, the Master Chief and a few other survivors from Halo return to Reach in the captured Covenant flagship.  Cortana has gathered valuable information on Covenant weapons and slipspace technology.  Moreover, she has determined that the local Covenant forces are gathering ships to attack Earth in the very near future.  Somehow, they have to get all this critical data back to Earth as soon as possible.<br />This story is typical of the series, in that a lot of 7.62mm ammo is expended to take out an unbelievable number of Covenant troops.  How they carry all that ammo and other munitions is a puzzler.  However, there is a semblance of a plot and a higher mission.  Best of all, some of the characters that were thought to be lost with the fall of Reach are now discovered to be alive and shooting, but the list of MIAs and KIAs is still long.<br />The story also displays aspects of Covenant society that were not mentioned in the previous books and gives more hints about the forerunners.  However, this installment ends with humanity on the edge of destruction.  The last scene hints of at least one more volume.<br />Highly recommended for Halo fans and for anyone else who enjoys nonstop firefights with a variety of horrifying and powerful opponents.	2004-02-18
781210:US	49390985	R2MLN807AF03DS	0743475291	973287016	The Dragon Sorcerer	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Pirates and Dockside Taverns	The Dragon Sorcerer is a collection of short works.  The title novel was previously published as Rogue Pirate and the five short stories are selections from the Tales of Slab's Tavern.<br />In the novel, Fel Blackmane was orphaned by an unscrupulous trader at the age of ten.  Two years later he joined the pirate band of Aldenius Frago, rising to be first mate and finally becoming the master of his own ship, the Pamah Reach.  Soon he gained the reputation of being one of the foremost pirates of his time and aspired to be the King of the Pirates.<br />Fel has enhanced his reputation by performing an impossible task each year.  Two years ago, Fel had fought three of the best warships of King Ornay of Zarvoon within a week's time and sent all three back to the king's wife draped in red roses.  Last spring he had taken the supposedly impenetrable island fortress of Bar Altibb and had stolen the treasure of the Countess Alna Savina ... and a kiss as well.<br />This year, Fel Blackmane has sailed to the Grayhaven Fair to sell back booty from his recent pirating forays to their former owners.  All goes well until they are departing the fair, when a dragon appears out of the sky and attacks the ship.  His first mate Ool barely saves the two of them by means of a magic potion.<br />Now Fel is without a ship and crew and he is being sought by the spies and assassins of Countess Alna.  Moreover, he craves revenge on the person who sent the dragon to destroy him.  He turns to his old friend Aldenius Frago for assistance.<br />In the Tales of Slab's Tavern, Ulander Rasym is the operator of this tavern near the docks of Zelloque.  Theoretically he is also the owner, but Slab's ghost still involves himself in day to day functions.  Since the tavern is a favorite meeting place between the living and the dead, Slab does share in the hosting of their clientele.  <br />Indeed, the problems faced by Ulander and his staff are often quite spiritual, in the ghostly sense.  For example, anOracle of Shon Atasha comes searching within the tavern for splinters from the bones of his god.  Then an old acquaintance decides to put Slab on the shelf.  Later the betrothed of Deana Ri, the younger sister of the Great Lord, shows up in the tavern with a life or death message for his fiancee.  Soon thereafter, the Brothers Lammiat have a quarrel about the foreseen  destruction of Zelloque and Nollin takes charge despite Halin's objections.  Finally, Ulander and Slab clean up the debris from the destruction and open Slab's Tavern to a wider clientele.<br />All these stories are enjoyable, but still leave something to be desired.  Maybe they are too short, for somehow they don't seem to be complete.  Nevertheless, they are worth reading.  Enjoy.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-02-17
784202:US	49390985	R295NMCGC4R3N7	0765305410	347114437	Gods' Concubine: Book Two of The Troy Game	Books	5	22	27	N	N	The Game of London Town	Gods' Concubine is the second novel in The Troy Game series, following [[ASIN:0765305402 Hades' Daughter]]. In the previous volume, Brutus the Kingsman and Genvissa, Mistress of the Labyrinth, have refounded the labyrinth of the Troy Game on Og's Hill, but Cornelia killed Genvissa before they could complete the ritual.     Then Asterion the Minotaur conquered Troia Nova and razed it to the ground. Later he sent plaques and fires and other conquerors to destroy the city. Yet the labyrinth beneath the hills grew and the city was restored time and again, growing larger each time.    In this novel, two millennia have passed and the principal personages have finally been allowed to be reborn. Brutus returns as William of Normandy and Genvissa as Swanne, wife of Harold Godwineson of Wessex. While he is not aware of it, Harold himself was Coel in his previous life.     Others have returned also, including Mother Ecub, Loth as Saeweald, and Erith as Judith. The new wife of Edward the Confessor, King of England, is Cornelia, returned as Caela, but she too is not aware of her previous identity.    For fifteen years, Edward refuses to bed Caela and, despite repeated proof that his wife is still a virgin, reviles her as a fallen woman; this continued virginity results in her being known as God's Concubine. While Swanne is highly desirable and has borne six children for him, Harold gradually grows to despise her and, after she stands by and laughs as his brother Tostig attacks him with a knife, he finally repudiates her and dissolves their Danelaw marriage.    While all of Europe waits for Edward to die, the resurrected dead of Troia Nova gradually become aware of each other and realize that Asterion is waiting in the wings to take control of the labyrinth. Even though Caela cannot remember being Cornelia, she still bestows a priory upon Mother Ecub and patronizes Saeweald. Then she takes Judith as her chief lady in waiting. Finally, a vicious magical attack upon Caela by Asterion shakes loose the memories of her former life and she begins to consciously conspire with her allies.     Then, too, Caela becomes aware of the Sidlesaghe, the ancient people of Britain who occupy the standing stones in and around London. Long Tom, the leader of these people, tells Caela that the labyrinth has conjoined with the land itself under London and both labyrinth and land long to complete the process with her as the Mistress of the Labyrinth. The Sidlesaghe begin to assist Caela in her efforts to counter Asterion and to help her move the Kingsman bands to new hiding places.    This story resolves very little of the plot, but does allow Brutus (now William) to marry Matilda and to learn to respect his wife. As he grows closer to his wife emotionally, William develops a sense of empathy that he had not achieved as Brutus. He comes to regret his prior treatment of Cornelia and the other inhabitants of Troia Nova.    In the same way, Cornelia (now Caela) becomes more mature and stronger willed. As God's Concubine, she learns restraint and perseverance. However, she is still naive and thus makes the mistake that leads to her death and the end of this phase of the story.    Highly recommended for Douglass fans and for anyone else who enjoys historical -- or maybe mythical -- fiction with fantasy elements and a millennia long plot.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-02-15
786113:US	49390985	R4MK15M7ZI4YT	0312864833	143918115	The Crystal City (Tales of Alvin Maker, Book 6)	Books	5	6	11	N	N	The New Exodus	The Crystal City is the sixth novel in the Tales of Alvin Maker series, following Heartfire. In the previous volume, Alvin and Verily Cooper convinced Judge Adams that the witchcraft charges brought against Purity Orphan and Alvin were backed only by hearsay and outright perjury and that their knacks were given by God upon birth, so the court suspended the licenses for all interrogators (or witchers) for their grievous malfeasance in office.  Since a licensed interrogator was required to prosecute a witchcraft charge, Judge Adams dismissed all charges against Purity and Alvin pending restoral of such licenses. <br />Immediately after completion of the trial, Alvin and Arthur ran with the greensong toward Camelot to rescue Calvin and Peggy.  Since Calvin was close to dying, Peggy convinced Gullah Joe to use powerful potions to raise Calvin to consciousness.  Peggy then coaxed Calvin (with a little remote help from Alvin) into flooding the land near the river, thus driving all of the agitated slaves to higher ground.  Thereupon, Peggy talked Calvin into storing his heartfire within a magical box just prior to his death.  When Alvin arrived, he managed to repair enough of Calvin's corpse to support a small trickle of heartfire back into the corpse, which kept the repaired parts working while he moved on to repair other parts, until Calvin was restored to full life.<br />Despite Peggy's best efforts, King Arthur and his advisors refused to listen to her explanation that the uprising was an unfortunate accident resulting in no real harm.  Instead, they insisted on making an example of the slaves who had stirred up so much fear.  John Calhoun wanted to hang a third of the slaves, but was finally convinced to execute only twenty of those involved in the uprising.  When the news of these executions reached the northern territories, however, a great public outcry was raised against any further accommodations with the slaveholders.<br />In this novel, Peggy is pregnant againand living in her father's roadhouse, but she has sent Alvin and Arthur down the Mizzippy to Neuva Barcelona -- i.e., New Orleans -- in an attempt to avoid the upcoming war over slavery.  On the trip down the river, they have had several enlightening experiences and met a number of interesting people, including a failed storekeeper from Noisy River named Abe Lincoln.  They also have had another encounter with Jim Bowie, a killer with a big knife who plans to join Steven Austin's expedition into Mexico.<br />After reaching New Orleans, they find lodgings with Mama Squirrel, Papa Moose and their dozens of kids in a large boarding house.  While they wait for some sign of their task, Alvin and Arthur help with the chores and gather information with the help of the kids and soon find that Neuva Barcelona is filled with plots and conspiracies.  One day, as they are getting water from a public foundation, a young woman named Dead Mary asks Alvin to heal her mama, Rien, who has yellow fever.  While not sure of his ability to cure the disease, Alvin goes with the young woman to a shack in swamp and repairs all the damage that he can discover with his doodlebug, focusing particularly on her liver and blood vessels, and clears away the rotting blood under her skin.<br />Alvin's gross repairs help Rien to heal her own body, but doesn't even touch the disease itself.  Rien becomes a carrier of the infection that spreads via the swamp mosquitoes throughout the city.  As the disease spreads, Alvin continues to heal as many people as possible in the area around his lodgings, but other people notice that there is a circle of wellness centered on his boarding house.  A crowd gathers around the building with torches, egged on by rumors spread by Jim Bowie.  Then Arthur uses his knack to extinguish all the torches and the crowd gets really spooked and runs away.  <br />Alvin is summoned by the local voodooienne, La Tia, and learns that the townsmen are working themselves into a mob which will attack others in addition to his friends and himself.  She says that he must lead an exodus of slaves and poor out of Neuva Barcelona.  Calvin helps by shrouding the city in fog, then Alvin and Arthur lead the crowd of thousands out of the city and across Lake Pontchartrain on a bridge made of crystallized water.    Gathering more migrants as they go, Alvin takes them all to the future site of the Crystal City.<br />This story reflects the flight of the Hebrews from Egypt as well as the repeated escapes of Joseph Smith and his followers from persecution.  The people following Alvin are not only black slaves, but also free colored and poor creoles.  They are escaping not just de jure slavery, but also a climate of de facto persecution that limits their freedoms and threatens their lives.  <br />This migration culminates all prior efforts by Alvin to break the social constraints of class, color and wealth.  This exodus does not wrest their promised land from the prior inhabitants, but instead tames an unwanted wilderness which they then open to all others who wish to settle there.  Their new freedom will not be at the expense of others.<br />This volume ends with the first foundations of the new utopia, but already the snakes have started to gather.  The new city may be a paradise, but all the people therein will not be paragons of virtue.  The next volume in this series should indicate how Alvin will handle dissent and corruption in the Crystal City.<br />Highly recommended for Card fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of temptation, morality and social justice among people with powerful and fantastic talents.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-02-14
786975:US	49390985	R3VKRA6S5MASSZ	0743471490	17202992	This Rough Magic (Heirs of Alexandria)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Strong As a Mother's Love	This Rough Magic (2003) is the second novel in the Heirs of Alexandria series, following The Shadow of the Lion. In the previous volume, Manfred and Eric thwarted a coup within the Knights of the Holy Trinity and, with the help of Eneko Lopez and his companions, caught Sister Ursula and her escorts before the Woden demon could be used against the Polestine forts; Eric destroyed the body of Sister Ursula and then Eric and Manfred destroyed the Woden demon itself.    Maria aroused the Arsenalotti to defend the Doge's palace and Benito led them in an attack on the Casa Dandelo which freed the slaves and defeated the hidden Milano troops. Dottore Luciano initiated the ritual to allow Marco to assume the Crown of the Lion of Saint Mark. When Lucrezia Brunelli tried to interrupt this ritual, Kat destroyed her with shot and silver. After completing the ritual, Marco flew over Venice and the shadow of the lion drove all of Chernobog's minions out of Venice and its environs.    Maria had learned that she is pregnant, probably by Benito. Although he was not aware that the child might be his, Benito proposed marriage to Maria, but Maria was too distressed at Benito's recklessness and love of danger to accept his proposal. Marco has come to love Kat, but he was still bound by his pro forma marriage to Angelina Dorma. Manfred was content with just having Francesca as his mistress.    In this novel, Maria marries Umberto Verrier, a cousin and caulker foreman in the Arsenal. After the wedding, they leave Venice for Istria, where Umberto will become the chief forester, replacing a man who was caught selling Venice's timber to other parties. Immediately after their arrival, Maria stumbles upon a continuation of the scheme and breaks up a treasonous conspiracy.    Angelina Dorma has agreed to an annulment of her marriage to Marco and to take up a novitiate in the Carmelite sisterhood. However, she keeps changing her mind. In the meantime, Marco's marriage to Katerina is coming closer. Finally, Petro presents his younger sister with a offer that she cannot refuse and the wedding will be held on time.    Maria returns to Venice to be the Matron of Honor at Kat's wedding, with Francesca as the other attendant. But first she has her daughter christened by Brother Mascoli at St. Raphaella, the canalers' church; unknown to Maria, Marco also arranges for Juliette the undine to be a special godmother for Alessia. The wedding between Marco and Katerina is held at the Basilica di San Marco, with Eneko Lopez as the officiating priest. The banquet afterward is held in the Doge's palace as well as outside on the Piazza San Marco.    After the wedding, Benito is arrested for unseemly acts and sentenced to exile for five years; Petro sends him to Corfu with the Atlantic fleet. Umberto is assigned as assistant foreman to the Little Arsenal on Corfu and the family will also be sailing with the fleet. Prince Manfred, Eric and two hundred of the Knights of the Holy Trinity will be sailing a short while later on a pilgrimage to Jerusalem, but will stop off at Corfu on the way.    Other persons have plans for Corfu. Chernobog sends his new shaman to search for magical sites there. King Emeric of Hungary has obtained ships from the Byzantines and is prepared to invade Corfu. Elizabeth Bartholdy has already planted agents on Corfu. Major forces are now converging on this island.    While Princes and demons are playing realpolitik, Eric Hakkonsen has found true love. Svanhild Thordardottar has traveled from Vinland to Venice with her brothers to arrange a trading alliance with Casa Montescue. There she meets Eric and is impressed, but assumes that he is a lowly bodyguard and tries to put him out of her mind. Eric also tries to ignore his feelings for Svanhild so as to concentrate on his duties. Then Svanhild leaves Venice with the Atlantic fleet, but enroute she learns from Maria that Eric is considerably more than a bodyguard, so she and her brothers leave the fleetat Corfu. Then comes the invasion and Svanhild is cut off from Eric by thousands of enemy troops.    This story also involves the ancient pagan fertility magic of Corfu as embodied in the religion of the Goddess. While less sophisticated than Christian or Strega magic, the Goddess wields enormous raw power. But this power can only be used defensively until some woman becomes the Bride, the incarnate focus of this power.    The plotline is complex and diverse, with more than a dozen separate major threads. The action ranges from Scandinavia to Constantinople and involves courts in Mainz, Vilna, and Buda. However, the heavy action occurs on Corfu.    Highly recommended for fans of this series and for anyone else who enjoys tales of individuals trying to find personal happiness amidst war and international intrigue among the great powers of the time.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-02-13
798212:US	49390985	R9XZLQ9M6EHVO	0345450388	954537115	Flinx's Folly: A Flinx & Pip Novel	Books	5	1	5	N	N	More Trials and Tribulations	Flinx's Folly is the eighth novel in the Flinx series, following Mid-Flinx.  In the previous volume, Flinx was pursued by an obsessed young merchant who wanted Pip for his private zoo.  Hiding out in the office of Father Bateleur of the United Church, Flinx described his recurring nightmare to the padre before sneaking out the back.  When the trader pursued him into orbit, Flinx instructed Teacher to take a course through space-plus towards the nearest habitable world.  After the ship exited space-plus, Flinx found that he has arrived at an interdicted planet, Midworld, that is covered in a deep layer of tropical plant life.  He dropped to the surface in his shuttle and lived among the local humans, who had long ago become symbiotic to their Home tree.  <br />While Flinx was learning about the world and its inhabitants, his enemies had discovered his location and have landed parties to catch him.  The young trader trapped Pip in an acid-proof box and captured Flinx and his local human friends.  Then the AAnn ambushed that party, but kept Flinx and his friends as prisoners.  However, the native furcots rescued them and Flinx remained with the locals for some time.<br />In this novel, Flinx has left Midworld behind him, although he added a few of the plants to the vegetation on the Teacher.  Lately he has been acting like a tourist on Golden IV, but he and the people around him suddenly fall unconscious and are all taken to a nearby hospital.  No specific cause or damage is found in any of the tests, but doctors at the hospital note abnormalities in Flinx's brain physiology and functions and want to keep him there for some tests.  Of course, Flinx appears to cooperate, but escapes from the hospital as soon as possible.<br />A team from the Order of Null notices Flinx among the victims and contacts the admitting physician for additional information.  When they are satisfied that the doctor knows nothing, the man and woman leave.  However, the man scratches the doctor on the arm and a deadly poison paralyzes the victim, leaving her unable to speak, and then kills her before the local security forces can arrive.<br />Later, the same team attacks Flinx while he is flying a repeller among the clouds.  He tries to overwhelm the assailants with fears of death, but his projected emotions apparently have no impact on his attackers.  When he projects fear of heights, however, they do react and break off the attack.<br />Flinx returns to his starship, but can't decide on a destination.  He is reasonably sure that the unconsciousness episode was caused by emotional leakage from his nightmare, but this dream had never before occurred during broad daylight.  He needs to talk to somebody, but can only think of one person who might listen, so he returns to New Riviera to find Clarity Held.<br />This story mostly concerns the increasing severe consequences of his nightmare, which is always virtually identical.  It has been bothering him for years, but is becoming stronger, more vivid and much more immediate.  Basically it concerns something evil in empty space far away, but coming closer, and now it is even accelerating its rate of closure.<br />While Flinx is sharing his concerns and fears with Clarity, he begins to have problems with Bill, Clarity's latest beau.  Bill acts like a reasonable boyfriend, but it is all an act;  he is really very possessive and jealous.  Bill hires agents to dispose of Flinx one way or another.<br />This story adds some new players to the game, including an ancient machine and a sentient plant, as well as two old friends.  And someone notifies the authorities that Flinx is wanted on felony charges by Earth itself.  When Clarity is injured in a shoot-out, Flinx has to leave her with his friends and flee the planet.  Then he discovers that the Order of Null, which intrudes on his life again and again, was founded as a result of his discussion with Father Bateleur on the nature of the evil thing in the void.<br />Highly recommended for Foster fans and for anyone who enjoys the adventures of an erratic, but increasingly powerful empath in a galaxy of enemies.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-02-05
799663:US	49390985	R1Z0DI054L6LRM	0765304066	136687689	Cube Route	Books	5	20	24	N	N	A Beauty Quest	Cube Route is the twenty-seventh novel in the Xanth series, following Up In a Heaval.  In the previous volume, Umlaut completed his quest by delivering all the letters, so the Demoness Fornax lost Counter Xanth to the Demon Xanth and she has committed herself to an extended visit with the Demon Jupiter.  Surprise convinced the Demons to allow Umlaut to continue his existence and even provided him with half her soul.  The dragon girl Becka also convinced Brusque Brassie to visit with her for a while. <br />In this novel, Cue is a very plain girl, downright ugly in fact, who is called Cube because she is so square.  Boys notice her face and figure, then glance aside.  When she explains her desire to be beautiful to Demoness Metria, she is asked why she has not taken her Question to the Good Magician.  Since she had not previously thought of doing so, Cube immediately sets off to the Good Magician's castle.<br />On the way, Cube meets Ryver Human and Karia Centaur.  When the Good Magician declares that she must gather nine companions and follow the Cube Route to find a way to Counter Xanth, Cube decides to start recruiting with these two.  Sofia Socksorter, the Magician's current designated wife, provides her with a magical pouch made from one of his old socks that can hold anything of any size in stasis.  Cube is to use the pouch to contain her Companions whenever someone else might notice them, for the quest must not attact unfavorable attention.<br />When Metria shows up, Cube recruits her as the first Companion, then sends her to ask Karia to come to her.  When they meet, Karia agrees to join the quest and they fly to Ryver's house.  Although Ryver is disappointed that she is not yet beautiful, he finally agrees to join.  They go next to Castle Roogna and recruit the Princesses Melody, Harmony and Rhythm.  Then the Princesses conjure a magical thread that shows them the path that they must follow and they add Drek Dragon, the sidestepping Mundanes Cory and Tessa, and the dog Diamond to their band.<br />While they are searching for the Companions and even afterwards, strange things happen around them.  Since the level of magic they are facing is extremely high, they conclude that the Demoness Fornax is interfering with the quest.  When one of the interventions causes Cube to drop the pouch, with all her Companions within it, into a stream that soon carries it underground, Cube immediately finds a way to the castle of Nimby and Chlorine to ask for their help, which Nimby provides.<br />All throughout the quest, Cube is faced with situations and people for which she has to strain her abilities to handle properly.  Although the route is extremely winding and indirect, the Companions believe that the path is preparing her for the final resolution of the quest.  Cube is definitely having new experiences and learning new skills and insights.<br />This story has a running joke about fractional moments, the length of silences and other timespans.  There are the usual puns and situational jokes aglore.  Moreover, Cube gets the grand tour of Xanth and Ida's moons in addition to Mundania, Phaze and Counter Xanth.  Of course, she completes her quest and becomes beautiful;  however, the payoff is not quite what she expected.<br />Highly recommended for Anthony fans and for anyone else who enjoys comic fantasy with some basic humor and a humane message.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-02-03
799799:US	49390985	RLO32MHT76NSH	0553801546	130881552	Fool's Fate (The Tawny Man, Book 3)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	All His Secrets Come Home to Nest	Fool's Fate is the third novel in The Tawny Man series, following Golden Fool.  In the previous volume, the Fool and Fitz have returned to Buckkeep Castle as Lord Golden and Tom Badgerlock.  Since Dutiful has the Skill, Chade has chived him into forming a Skill coterie with Fitz as Skillmaster and with the prince, his half-witted servant Thick, and Chade himself as students.  Meanwhile, the Outislanders have made a approach to Queen Kettricken for the Narcheska of the Narwhal clan to marry Prince Dutiful.    Such a marriage could reduce conflict and increase trade between the Six Duchies and the Outisland clans.  However, Chade and Fitz are suspicious of some strange aspects of the negotiations, particulary of the demand that Dutiful prove his worthiness by cutting off the head of a black dragon embedded in the ice on a remote island.  Moreover, one of the Narcheska's handmaidens seems to have contacts with the Piebalds.      In this novel, Fool is no longer talking to Fitz after a confrontation.  The Fool has moved into town and is establishing quite a reputation as Lord Golden, a rich and merry noble.  Fitz is still living in Buckkeep Castle as Tom Badgerlock, but he is now masquerading as a Prince's guard.  His duties allow him enough spare time to continue training the coterie and perform special tasks for Chade.  He is also getting better acquainted with his daughter Nettle through his dreams, for she seems to have a sizable Skill talent for entering another's dreams and taking control of them.    Nettle's brother Swift has shown up at Buckkeep Castle after extensive quarrels with his father over curbing his Wit.  Fitz is given charge over his training and soon steers him toward Web, the Witmaster of Dutiful's Wit Coterie.  However, Swift is very argumentative and sullen and, worst yet, refuses to conceal his Wit from possible enemies.    Then comes the time for Prince Dutiful and his entourage to sail for the Out Islands.  The Fool insists on coming, but Chadeconspires with Fitz to frustrate these plans.  Fitz tries to send Swift back to his father, but Swift attaches himself to the Witmaster's party.  Thick doesn't want to go onboard the ship;  his attendant Sada has told him he will be seasick and may die from it, so he forces himself into sickness and Fitz is chosen to tend to him.  Then Thick lapses into a fever and Fitz has to treat him for that.    In this story, a historic voyage to the Six Duchies' longtime enemies is shredded by many little disappointments and aggravations.  Then the Outislanders insist on additional conditions for taking the dragon's head, including a drastic reduction in the number of the Prince's guard.  Also, the Outislanders send six clan warriors with them to witness the battle and, if necessary, to intervene to protect the dragon Icefyre.    Things are so depressing that the growing attraction between Dutiful and Ellinia only becomes a cause for chaperoning.  However, the reduced party reached Aslevjal without further incidences other than Thick having a residual cough.  They set up a base camp and prepare to cross the glacier.    This story brings Fitz's love for the Fool in direct conflict with his prophecy, for he is determined to protect the Fool from the death that has been forseen.  But events don't always occur as expected when the Catalyst is involved.  This time the White Prophet is himself surprised when the Changer intervenes in his life.    Fitz also finds all his secrets unraveling and some decisions unmade.  Despite the continuing danger, the dead Witted King seems to be rising from the grave.  His rehabilutation, however, is not without violence.    Highly recommended for Hobb fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of covert conflict within medieval settings and with strong elements of magic and prophecy.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-02-03
800813:US	49390985	R2RF3TKZROTNRS	0441011306	536872712	Alphabet Of Thorn (Mckillip, Patricia a)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A Literary Obsession	Alphabet of Thorn is a fantasy set in the Kingdom of Raine.  The old king has died suddenly by falling off his horse during a hunt.  His fourteen year old daughter has just been crowned as the Queen amid great splendor and masses of people.  The people are still not sure what to make of the new queen.    In this novel, Nepenthe is an orphan raised by the Royal librarians and trained as a transcriptor.  She rides out with a fellow transcriptor to pick up a tome in an unknown alphabet from the mages of the Floating School and finds herself obsessed with both the tome and the mage who delivers it to her.  She lies to the other transcriptor, saying that the mages have translated it after all, and she begins to neglect her other work to translate the tome with the alphabet of thorn.    Bourne is the apprentice mage who delivered the tome to Nepenthe.  He also finds himself obsessed ... with Nepenthe!  Suddenly, he thinks of her constantly and sees her everywhere.  He discovers that he can find her anywhere and can move to her through space with only a single step.    Tessera is the new queen, who wanders restlessly through the castle and environs at odd hours.  She is found at the bottom of the steps leading down the seaside cliff to the tomb of Mermion, the first king of Raine.  She is said to have been in the woods of the Floating School talking to birds, to a mounted warrior and to Bourne.  She frustrates Vevay the mage, her mentor in the kingly arts, for she is so different from her father.    In this story, Nepenthe, Bourne, Tessera and a great number of other people are threatened by an unknown danger.  Tessera is warned by Mermion, the Dreaming King, to beware of the thorns.  Vevay finds the tome with the alphabet of thorn and scans it for dangers, but finds nothing.  What could the danger be?    This story is typical of the author, a mythical tale populated by believable and interesting characters faced by a legendary danger.  The young queen matures tremendouslyduring this tale as she learns to face her fears and strike back at danger.  Bourne also matures during the story.  Nepenthe doesn't develop so much as gradually showing her hidden feeling and strengths.    Highly recommended for McKillip fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of myth and mystery.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-02-03
804040:US	49390985	RXPCZ3FVDXGGS	074347158X	32305456	The Far Side of the Stars	Books	5	5	8	N	N	A Tour of the Galactic North, With Various Battles	The Far Side of the Stars is the third novel in the RCN series, following Lt. Leary, Commanding.  In the previous volume, the captain and crew of the Princess Cecile have been marooned yet escaped, cut a deal with pirates, driven off an Alliance squadron, and installed a new president for Strymon.  In the process, their ship has been badly damaged and was left in a Strymon shipyard for repair under Lieutenant Mon while Daniel and Adele return to Xenos.<br />In this novel, Daniel is temporarily at half-pay while his ship is under repair.  He has been preparing a funeral for his uncle Stacey Bergen, the famous navigator and explorer.  He is his uncle's principal heir and has been named as trustee for the widow.  His sister Deirdre has passed on a message through Adele that he needs to find a yardmanager for his uncle's shipyard.<br />The Princess Cecile has been brought back to Xenos by Lieutenant Mon to be sold out of service.  The Count and Countess Klimov from Novy Sverdlovsk have been carried on the Sissie as passengers and wish to buy the ship.  Lieutenant Mon has been offered command, but the ship has encountered several problems in transit, so the crew think Mon is a hard-luck captain.  Mon asks for advice from Daniel and is instead offered management of the Bergen and Associates shipyard, while Daniel takes the captaincy of the Princess Cecile.  Everybody is satisfied and the crew happily cues up to sign the ship's articles.<br />The Klimovs have several requirements, including hunting, primitive societies, and card games.  However, they are primarily searching for a huge carved gem called the Earth Diamond.  Eighty years before, a mercenary soldier made himself Emperor Ivan the First of Novy Sverdlovsk.  Twenty years later, he was overthrown but escaped in his private yacht with the Earth Diamond and other treasures.  Since the present continents of Earth had been deformed by planetoid bombardment prior to the Hiatus, the information carved on the diamond globe is now literally priceless.  The ex-emperor was last reported heading toward the Galactic North.  Therefore, the first port of call for the ship will be 4795-C, where there are dragons, enroute to Todos Santos in the Ten Star Cluster.<br />Adele has an additional task bestowed by Mistress Sand.  The RCN has received word of an Alliance base under construction on Gehenna, the satellite of Radiance, the capital of the Commonwealth of God.  The Commonwealth has embargoed Radiance to foreign naval vessels, but the Princess Cecile is now a private yacht with the armament and sensors of a warship.  Moreover, Bernis Sand arranges for the reinstallation of additional modules to further enhance the sensors.<br />The first part of the story is a quest for the Earth Diamond.  Step by step the Sissie follows the path of the Emperor's yacht.  They find a belt-buckle here and an artifact there, leading them toward the priceless relict.<br />They run into Alliance interference on Todos Santos in the form of Captain Bertram of the freighter Goldenfels.  The captain begins to form a grudge toward Daniel when the Sissie is assigned to the berth that had previously been reserved for his ship.  Then Bertram tries to cheat at cards, but the Count gets the better of him anyway.  Moreover, the Goldenfels is not what she seems, for she has military grade security systems and over three hundred men on board;  she has to be an Alliance spy ship.  When the Princess Cecile leaves Todos Santos, the Goldenfels pursues her.<br />While this volume differs radically in plot from the first two in the series, the Princess Cecile nevertheless gets into some fearsome naval battles, even though she is now a civilian craft.  However, she gains some unexpected allies along the way.  Moreover, the plot was designed by Murphy:  everything outside their control goes wrong and only the competence of captain and crew saves them from numerous perils.<br />This story takes place in an ambiance much like the Napoleonic Era.  In fact, the Alliance commanders are named for French commanders of that time.  However, the technology seems to tie this series to the Reaches trilogy based on an environment much like the early Spanish colonial period.  If so, the Reaches stories must occur during the early recovery from the Hiatus.  Maybe the author plans to connect these two storylines.<br />One thing seems to be incongruous, however.  The author mentions that the communications protocols are based on those of his former unit in Viet Nam, which seems to be the case.  But the RCN environment is sufficiently different to make those protocols problematical.  While current naval (and marine) protocols need not be used, the naval call sign conventions are designed for the much more complex environment of a naval capital ship, both internally and externally.  Some of the terminology also differs.  However,  call initiation, termination and other control practices are not very different in most environments.  <br />To some extent, these commo practices were modified for communications with other ships, ports and so forth.  While these modifications are sufficient for a small vessel such as the Princess Cecile, further mods would be required for a larger ship with a crew in the thousands and with dozens of excursions by landing craft, shuttles and other onboard craft.  Moreover, larger craft have escorts and the larger the ship, the more numerous the escorts.  In addition, naval communications and control is much more centralized than the military versions;  so many vessels moving at such high velocities relative to each other must be controlled much more closely and require more complex communications protocols.  Thus, naval protocols are much like that of a combined airport and seaport which is itself moving through space.<br />Nonetheless, this story was very convincing and filled with excitement throughout;  the author knows how to keep the reader on the edge of his seat.  The characterization, however, was rather wooden, with each character having only a few defining attributes.  Adele has the best defined character, but she is deliberately handicapped with a notable flatness of affect;  for example, she has little fear of dying and she presents a blank expression even when disturbed by some incident.  One would hope that she loosens up more as the series continues.<br />Highly recommended for Drake fans and for anyone else who enjoys naval SF in a highly complex political environment.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2004-01-31
815510:US	49390985	RV1E0FMTP1JIE	0345388852	979772647	The Giants Novels (Inherit the Stars, The Gentle Giants of Ganymede, and Giants' Star)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Earth Colonized From Minerva	The Giants Novels is an omnibus edition of the Giants series.  This volume contains Inherit the Stars, The Gentle Giants of Ganymede, and Giants' Star.  These novels were the first published by the author.    Millennia before the Apollo project, mankind had reached Luna.  As man returns to the Moon, he finds evidence of a prior human technological society.  Moreover, he finds artifacts of another alien civilization on Ganymede, the largest moon of Jupiter.    In Inherit the Stars, a survey party finds someone in a spacesuit within a cave-like hole in the Copernicus crater.  The body was that of a human being who had died over 50,000 years ago.  Apparently it had come from Minerva, the long destroyed planet between Mars and Jupiter.    In The Gentle Giants of Ganymede,  an alien spaceship has been found under the ice of Ganymede.  Inside are found the remains of eight-foot tall entities who have been named Ganymedeans.  Then the Shapieron, a fully operational Ganymedean spaceship, appears near Ganymede.    In Giants' Star, the Shapieron leaves to search for the migrated Ganymedeans at a star in the constellation of Taurus.  Before their departure, a message is sent from a human installation on the Luna Farside toward this star telling of the ship's departure and a response is received soon thereafter welcoming the crew to their new home.  Although no other responses are received for some time, months later messages start arriving in English using standard communication codes from a source in the fringe of the solar system.    These novels established the author's reputation as a writer of hard science fiction capable of inducing a sense of wonder.  All three of these novels concern the use of the tools of science and technology to explore the past and present of other societies, one human and the other alien.  They evoke the vicarious excitement of discovery, from gathering data to forming a consistent explanation.    Highly recommended for Hogan fans and for anyoneelse who enjoys tales of archaeological investigation of alien civilizations and first contact with such aliens.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-01-22
818361:US	49390985	RKTORTBWGNWS7	0345460006	997206091	Lazarus Rising (Starfist, Book 9)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A Turn For the Worse	Lazarus Rising (2003) is the ninth novel in the StarFIST series, following Kingdom's Fury.  In the previous volume, the 34th FIST, reinforced by the 26th FIST, had driven the Skinks off Kingdom and followed them to Quagmire.  There the Gundar Bay, their troopship, attacked a Skink warship and drove it away from the planet, leaving enemy soldiers on the planet.  The 34th dropped on Quagmire and the Gundar Bay returned to Kingdom with the 26th FIST to preclude another assault there.   The 34th, with a little help from the hexapod natives, crushed the Skink forces on Quagmire and the two FISTs returned to their bases.    Meanwhile, on Kingdom, Dominic de Tomas had charged the members of the Ecumenical Council with profiteering and treason, seized control of the government, and executed all the theocrats.  On a worldwide broadcast, he declared the defeat of the Skinks and announced his actions against the Council.  Then he promised to present a new constitution and called upon everybody to start rebuilding their lives.  It was a short and effective speech.    In this novel, Kingdom refugees are straggling back to their homes, unsure whether the \\"demons\\" will return or not.  Kingdom forces are still searching for the Skinks and sometimes finding them in vaguely seen animals and even humans.  Lieutenant Ben Loman thinks he finds the demons and wipes out a group of primitive humans, with one exception.  Later he thinks he finds Skinks in a remote village and attacks a group of settlers, but this time he loses a reconnaissance car and its crew.    One group of refugees awakes within an iron cage in a Skink compound, bearing signs of rough treatment on their bodies, but none are able to remember so much as their name.  The six find food and clothing within the buildings and begin to remember some things about themselves.  They scout around the area outside the compound and discover a trail and a stream.  They cannot agree on which to follow, so they split into two parties and go off looking for other humans.      This story mostly concerns the growing power of Dominic de Tomas, who is apparently redesigning the Kingdom government on the model of the Third Reich.  He quickly organizes a social structure that involves his political party in every aspect of civilian life and starts moving into the military forces.  The Confederation ambassador, Jayben Spears, soon recognizes the growing authoritarian structure, but is unable to effectively oppose the changes.    Like Hitler, de Tomas proves to be a charismatic figure and quickly establishes himself as a beloved leader.  He unleashes all the power of the governmental propaganda ministry, appealing mainly to the working classes.  His own Special Group troops are fanatically loyal to him.  The young intellectuals are against him, but their parents are not.  The SG are picking up his opponents and the discontented and either imprisoning or executing them.  His power is growing every day.  Then one of the SG units picks up a young woman within a deserted village and the tide starts to turn.    Highly recommended for Sherman and Cragg fans and for anyone who enjoys tales of underground resistance groups within a total dictatorship.	2004-01-20
819052:US	49390985	RAMXF2SPZTYAH	0688118828	54025901	A Sudden Wild Magic	Books	5	4	6	N	N	An Intercontinual Intrusion	A Sudden Wild Magic is an independent fantasy novel.  In a universe like ours, but in which magic is potent, the Ring oversees the mages and witches of Great Britain.  The head of the Inner Ring begins to suspect covert external influence in recent history.  He tests his suspicions with great care to avoid detection and then takes his evidence to another member of the Inner Ring for advice.    In this novel, Mark Lister travels to Hereford to consult with Gladys, the old women in the Inner Ring.  After a bit of confusion over his purpose, they visit a dreadfully injured young women in the local hospital and hear an incoherent story.  The evidence brought by Mark and the young woman's story lead them to believe that the external influence is coming from another universe.  After dreaming of the intruders, Mark and Gladys gather Amanda and Maureen, the other two members of the Inner Ring, and determine a plan to invade the hostile base and eliminate the interference.    Zillah is Amanda's sister.  Some time before, she had an affair with Mark and had a young son, Marcus, by him, but now the two are estranged.  However, Zillah still loves Mark and decides to stow away on the assault vehicle to separate Marcus and herself from Mark.  She soon finds herself in an unexpectedly strange environment.    The High Head of All Horns and King's Vicar on Arth is the head honcho of the observation base watching our universe.  The Arth garrison is out of favor back in the Pentarchy.  When the High Head inspects the latest batch of servicemen, he finds them to be a lot of odds and sods, with only the spoiled son of the Pentarch of Frinjen, a throwback of a gualdian, and a knock-kneed centaur standing out in the rabble.    When the converted bus used as an intercontinual assault vehicle arrives in the target universe, many of the inhabitants have been unexpectedly killed, leaving six women and Marcus, and their weapons have been short-circuited and made useless.  They are rescued by the Arth garrison, who don't really know what to do with them.  Despite their disastrous start, the remaining commandos decide to carry on and soon begin to disrupt the routine of the male garrison.  Zillah inadvertently gets Tod, the Pentarch's son, banished to Earth and she is forced to flee from capture with Philo the gualdian and Josh the Centaur.  Then strange things begin to happen to the Arth fortress itself.    This story describes the defense of our universe against a subtle and powerful interference from the outside  The lady commandos strike back directly against Arth, the forward base, and Gladys finds another way to influence the outsiders.  Meanwhile, infiltrators from Arth are trying to pierce the veil of secrecy placed around the Ring's operations.    Highly recommended for Jones fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of daring and magic with more than a touch of intrigue.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-01-20
819256:US	49390985	R8CZ9RFJT8V39	0743436113	110179885	Forge of the Titans	Books	5	6	9	N	N	The War of the Gods, Phase 2	Forge of the Titans is the seventh solo novel by the author.  This novel is about a group of powerful alien entities who originated in an adjacent universe, the Void.  These aliens were organized energy sources within the featureless and amorphous energies of the Void and existed in a state of perpetual sensory deprivation.  Then one of them discovered a way to pass from the Void into our universe, where the entities found matter and the joys of sensory perception.<br />The aliens who first passed through to Earth ruled the natives by might and terror as the Titans.  Later, entities from the Void came in the semblance of the Olympian gods and, although still fickle and hard to please, they were more sympathetic towards mankind.  Millennia ago, these gods battled the Titans and, with the help of human mages, defeated them and banished their lifeforces back into the Void.  The battle caused the island home of the mages to sink into the sea, so the gods searched the galaxy for another home for them.  Having discovered a planet almost identical to Earth on the far side of the galactic core, the gods named it Khron and relocated the mages there.<br />In this novel, the US military is screening all their personnel for psionic talents.  Derek Secrest has been brought up from the Naval Aviation Officer Candidate School for the last round of tests and is anxious to return for his final week prior to graduation.  He notices a woman with striking features and very long hair among the testees.  The tests, however, involve drugs that cause strange dreams and a sense of unreality, so he wonders if she is a figment of his imagination.<br />After the testing is completed, Derek is told that he will not be returning to NAOCS, but is given two weeks leave, which he spends at his grandfather's home.  Glenn Secrest is a former Navy Commander and pilot, so he understands Derek's disappointment at not graduating with his class.  This common understanding cheers Derek somewhat, but he still takes long walks to think over his situation.  <br />On one of these rambles, he sees the mysterious woman again, this time through a hole in mid-air.  She is being chased by strangers and barely escapes through the portal, closing it behind her.  She is so exhausted that Derek takes her back to the house and puts her to bed.  When she awakes the next day, he learns that she is called Sophia and she tells him that he should not refuse that which is going to be offered to him.<br />Immediately thereafter, Derek has visitors who offer him an assignment with JICPO, but do not spell out the details.  Since Glenn has served in the predecessor of JICPO during the Vietnam era, he forces full disclosure from the recruiters, including the name of the unit: the Joint Interservice Command for Psionic Operations.  Glenn also informs Derek that he can refuse the transfer, but Derek is certain that he must take the assignment.<br />During the initial testing, Derek had met a Navy pilot, Lieutenant SG Paul Rinnard, and the two immediately became comrades.  After Derek reports to JICPO, he finds that Paul is also there.  Later they both meet Air Force First Lieutenant Lauren Westerfeld during the briefings and the three of them start hanging out together.  The threesome seem to have the most powerful psionic talents in the command.<br />In this story, the three of them learn that the Titans have returned and are gradually conquering the descendants of the mages on Khron with the help of human imperialists.  While on a JICPO mission, they are magically moved from their spaceplane into a Khron shuttle and disappear from the earth and all its environs.  Then the threesome travel to Khron to assist in the battle against the Titans.<br />This story is a science fantasy, having fantasy elements within a scientific framework.  Since the creatures from the Void have advanced powers, they appear to be gods or Titans to primitive humans and are very impressive even to technological sophisticates of contemporary times.  However, the JICPO threesome are more skeptical than ancient mankind and so find vulnerabilities in the powers of these creatures.<br />Highly recommended for White fans and for anyone who enjoys tales of humans trying to defeat beings with advanced powers and millennia of experience.	2004-01-20
823666:US	49390985	R1W65WPUSJIAQ7	0613684036	326436244	Aunt Maria	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Ties That Bind	Aunt Maria is an independent fantasy novel.  Mig Laker is a girl with a problem.  Ever since her father was reported missing from his car after it plunged into the sea, his Aunt Maria (Ma-rye-ah) has been calling the family to invite them to Cranbury-on-the-sea.  Her mother Betty often works late and her brother Chris refuses to answer the phone when Aunt Maria calls (he somehow always knows it is her).  When no one answers the phone, Aunt Maria suspects foul play and calls all their friends and acquaintances to locate them.  So Mig has to answer the phone and make excuses why they can't go to Cranbury right then.<br />In this novel, Betty Laker came home early one evening and answered the phone when Aunt Maria called.  Unfortunately, she agreed to spend the Easter holiday in Cranbury.  So off they go in their little slow car over the winding road, past the place that Greg Laker had gone over the side, and down into Cranbury.  Aunt Maria was home, but Lavinia, her caretaker, wasn't.  Moreover, the cupboards and refrigerator were almost empty, so they had a sort of nut scrambled eggs for supper and then put up their things and went to bed.<br />The next day, Mig starts learning that strange things are going on in Cranbury.  The commuters are gray-suited zombies, the orphans are clones, and somebody is driving their Dad's car with different license plates.  Moreover, Chris discovers that he has a ghost in his room, Betty notices that the cat hanging around the place looks like the missing Lavinia, and the next door neighbor starts acting like Aunt Maria's chief of police.<br />In this story, Aunt Maria has a way of manipulating everybody by evoking guilt.  She surrounds herself with a coterie of ladies who cater to her every whim.  Moreover, the whole town seems to follow her orders, with the exception of the Phelps siblings across the street in number 12.<br />Nathaniel Phelps is an old man with white hair and a dislike for women.  His sister Amaryllis is a nice oldlady who is subject to falling down unexpectedly.  When Mig and her mother visit in spite of Aunt Maria, Miss Phelps is very kind, but refuses to discuss the situation at that time.  However, they are both very helpful later.<br />While Mig is miserable in Cranbury, things become even worst when Chris is transformed to a wolf.  Now Betty begins to forget Chris and refuses to listen to any rubbish about him being turned into a wolf.  Then Chris gets into the house and disrupts Aunt Maria's afternoon tea party and the town starts organizing a wolf hunt.<br />This story is about an awful woman with great power and unshakable faith in her own righteousness.  She is brought face to face with her sins and she denies any wrongdoing.  Something drastic has to be done to eliminate her stranglehold on the inhabitants of Cranbury.<br />Recommended for Jones fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of young people struggling for freedom from the tyranny of relationships.	2004-01-16
824189:US	49390985	R1DCEO1IXAA8O0	B00005WGEF	436293655	The Minervan experiment	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Revising the History of the Solar System	The Minervan Experiment is an omnibus edition of the Giants series.  This volume contains Inherit the Stars, The Gentle Giants of Ganymede, and Giants' Star.  These novels were the first published by the author.<br />Millennia before the Apollo project, mankind had reached Luna.  As man returns to the Moon, he finds evidence of a prior human technological society.  Moreover, he finds artifacts of another alien civilization on Ganymede, the largest moon of Jupiter.<br />In Inherit the Stars, a survey party finds someone in a spacesuit within a cave-like hole in the Copernicus crater.  The body was that of a human being who had died over 50,000 years ago.  Apparently it had come from Minerva, the long destroyed planet between Mars and Jupiter.<br />In The Gentle Giants of Ganymede,  an alien spaceship has been found under the ice of Ganymede.  Inside are found the remains of eight-foot tall entities who have been named Ganymedeans.  Then the Shapieron, a fully operational Ganymedean spaceship, appears near Ganymede.<br />In Giants' Star, the Shapieron leaves to search for the migrated Ganymedeans at a star in the constellation of Taurus.  Before their departure, a message is sent from a human installation on the Luna Farside toward this star telling of the ship's departure and a response is received soon thereafter welcoming the crew to their new home.  Although no other responses are received for some time, months later messages start arriving in English using standard communication codes from a source in the fringe of the solar system.<br />These novels established the author's reputation as a writer of hard science fiction capable of inducing a sense of wonder.  All three of these novels concern the use of the tools of science and technology to explore the past and present of other societies, one human and the other alien.  They evoke the vicarious excitement of discovery, from gathering data to forming a consistent explanation.<br />Highly recommended for Hogan fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of archaeological investigation of alien civilizations and first contact with such aliens.	2004-01-16
831743:US	49390985	R38YKDGLSSZFGT	076530449X	793020278	Beyond the Hanging Wall	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A Contemporary Fairy Tale	Beyond the Hanging Wall is an independent novel.  In the kingdom of Escator, a vibrant and beloved young prince is lured away from a royal hunt and ambushed by a group of masked men.  These men cannot kill the prince, for he is protected the royal tattoo on his arm, but they brand over the tattoo and haul the prince away to perpetual captivity.<br />In this novel, seventeen years later, Garth Baxter is an apprentice healer learning his trade from his father.  When Joseph is called to serve his annual term as a healer within the Veins, Garth asks to go along with his father.  First, however, the pair visit the king to treat the festering of his royal tattoo.<br />When they reach the deep mines of the Veins, Garth finds a man -- lot 859 -- far below who has a royal tattoo buried under the hideous scar on his arm.  Recognizing that lot 859 must be Maximillian, the lost prince, Garth first tries to get the man to respond to his name, but has little success.  After returning from the Veins, Garth spends the next few months trying to find out more about Prince Maximillian and the tattoo.<br />His questions brings him to the attention of others who join with him in the quest.  Among these is a monk of the Order of the Persimius and a pair of marsh witches.  Eventually they plot a rescue of the prince.<br />Some of the most poignant scenes occur deep within the mine.  The stench of sulfur and the tang of saltwater overlay the odour of unwashed humanity.  The ever present dust coats the skin and is drawn into the throat and lungs with each breath.  Overhead is the hanging wall of the tunnels, holding back millions of tons of rock and dirt.  Darkness oppresses the mind of many, but is a well-known friend to the prince.<br />In many respects, this story can be compared to those of Patricia McKillip.  It reads like a fairy tale, with a sense of destiny driving the plot and sustaining a touch of the mythical throughout.  The witches perform mist magic and the monks cloud men's minds with their arts.  Then there is the heraldic beast of the royal tattoo, the Manteceros, who dwells within the Dream World.  Definitely a fascinating fantasy.<br />Highly recommended for Douglass and McKillip fans and for anyone else who enjoys contemporary fairy tales.	2004-01-11
835050:US	49390985	R15YKJZMMZC3F0	0441010466	652303425	Omega	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Clouds Strike Again	Omega is the fourth novel in the Hutch series, following Chindi.  In the first volume of this series, Priscilla \\"Hutch\\" Hutchins piloted the expedition that discovered the omega clouds in 2202.  Twenty-eight years later, an omega cloud turned from its path and approached Moonlight (Brinkman IV), an iceworld with extensive ruins.  David Collingdale led an Academy team that tried to destroy the cloud with nuclear weapons.  Although the bombs tore great holes in the cloud, it recovered and carried through the attack, yet missed one city hidden within a blizzard.     In this novel, four years later, Hutch is acting Director for Operations at the Academy.  She receives word from Broadside that another omega cloud, 3000 lightyears away, has turned from its path and that an academy ship, the Bill Jenkins, has been diverted to check the target system for artificial structures.  Elsewhere, other Academy ships have been investigating the omega clouds.  The Peter Quaqmor team find something unusual directly in front of their cloud:  a 240-sided vessel that looks like a hedgehog.  When the team drills a hole into the vessel, however, everything in the vicinity disappears in a great flash.    Academy ships soon find that hedgehogs are leading every omega cloud that they have investigated, with one exception.  The cloud that recently turned aside does not have a hedgehog in front of it, but one was found on the original path.  Apparently the clouds normally follow the hedgehogs, but can change directions after detecting objects with right angles, such as artificial structures, in order to attack those objects.    When the Jenkins reaches the target system (which the team names Lookout), they find that funny looking aliens dwell in a limited area on the surface.  Since Hutch has been anticipating this situation, she sends two more ships to Lookout.  One contains a team of linguists and nabobs and the other is a freighter carrying rainmaking gear, holographic projectors and a hugebox kite.  The mission chief is David Collingdale, who is determined that the cloud will not destroy the homes of this civilization.    In this story, the aliens, who look like the Goompahs in a popular children's show, catch the interest and sympathy of the general public, prompting a number of movements and activities to profit from the situation.  For example, a drive to provide assistance to the natives is well funded from public donations.  However, various firms also produce dolls and other products based on the alien society.  Moreover, the media and other entertainment industries want footage of the aliens during the crisis to titillate their patrons.    Hutch is squarely in the middle of the efforts to analyze the omega clouds and to avert a catastrophe on Lookout.  The Commissioner stays as far away from these efforts as possible to avoid any fallout from a possible failure.  Hutch gets to talk to all the flaky, greedy and narrow-focused opportunists who want transportation to Lookout.    Meanwhile, Digger Dunn and the team on the Jenkins are getting to know the Goompahs.  They have been provided with lightbenders, so that they can walk invisibly among the Goompahs, setting pickups in public places to collect data for analysis by the linguists on the al-Jahani.  They start in the city which they have named Athens, due to its architecture, but called Brackel by the natives.    This story is the best so far in a particularly good series.  The aliens have many human attributes, but seem to mostly lack any form of bigotry or fanaticism.  They seem to be more flexible in their thinking than humans.  However, they are terrified of the human image because of the resemblance to a type of demon in their mythology.  They run off screaming whenever Digger appears, which rather depresses his mood.    Highly recommended for McDevitt fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of alien societies and first contact.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-01-08
838012:US	49390985	R2YPH1C807QVOM	0441011322	215655075	Conqueror's Moon (Boreal Moon Tale)	Books	5	2	11	N	N	Memoirs of an Intelligencer	Conqueror's Moon (2004) is the first novel in the Boreal Moon Tale series. In the far north, within the Boreal Sea, the island of High Blenholme contains four nations: Blencartha, Blendidion, Blentarn and Blenmoss.  The richest in land and trade is Cartha, but Didion has thick forests and abundant shipyards. Tarn is poor in farmland, but rich in minerals. Only Moss lacks riches, but the Conjure-Kings control powerful magic.    Before Emperor Bazekoy the Great conquered High Blenholme a thousand years afore and planted his colony there, the island belonged to the mighty Beaconfolk, the Great Lights and other magical people. The armies of Bazekoy drove out the Small Lights, the Salka, and the Green People, but didn't bother the Great Lights. Neither did the Beaconfolk seem disturbed by the invasion.     Now times are hard on Blenholme, with the volcanoes of Tarn belching ash and gases into the air, poisoning the atmosphere and bringing twilight to most of the island. Crops fail in Didion and Tarn and fare poorly even in Cartha. Moss, however, is little affected due to its distance from the volcanoes and its dependence upon swamp vegetation for foodstuffs.    Conrig Wincantor, the Prince Heritor of Cartha, conceived of reuniting the island into a single Sovereignty as it had been under Emperor Bazekoy. He convinced his father King Olmigon to proclaim the Edict of Sovereignty to Didion first, but the king refused to send a powerful force with the announcement. King Achardus of Didion didn't receive the proclamation calmly, however, instead putting all the envoys to death, throwing their bodies into the sea, and mounting their heads on pikes above Mallmouth Bridge.    In this novel, Conrig calls a council of Northern lords at Vanguard Castle to propose an invasion of Didion to capture King Achardus and to force him to comply with the Edict. Conrig has brought his brother Vra-Stergos, a newly ordained Doctor Arcanorum in the Mystic Order of the Brothers of Zeth, capable of watching on the wind. He has also brought a lowly footman, Deveron Austtrey, called Snudge, a wild-talent who is his intelligencer. Both his brother and Snudge detect that someone is watching them.    Conrig sends his brother to their chambers and slips out through a secret passage to the musicians gallery overlooking the banquet chamber where the lords are gathering. Conjure-Princess Ullanoth, his partner in recreating the Sovereignty, appears to him there in a Sending and announces that her brother Beynor has sailed south to the continent with Princes Honigalus and Somarus of Didion, probably to conspire with the corsairs of Stippen. Then she leaves and he prepares to meet the lords.    While Conrig proposes his plan to the lords, Snudge searches for the watchers. As he expects, one is Ullanoth, but the other is an unknown, located somewhere within the castle near the stables. When Snudge tracks down the unknown watcher, he finds only a faint shadow thrown on the wall by something unseen. Snudge confronts the invisible watcher and is attacked, both physically and magically, but manages to stop the heart of the sorcerer with his dagger. Snudge discovers a sigil of concealment on the man and places it in his wallet.    As the sorcerer lay dying, he called upon Beynor, Conjure-Prince of Moss. When Conrig discusses this disturbing news with Ullanoth, they prepare an elaborate disinformation plan to fool Beynor into thinking that they are attacking through the Great Pass and covering their real movements by fog created by Ullanoth's magical allies. Then Conrig returns to Cala Palace.    This story depicts the unfolding of Conrig's plan to enforce the Edict of Sovereignty on Didion. As usual, things go wrong and several tasks allotted to Ullanoth cannot be completed by the princess. But Snudge proves capable of performing these unexpected tasks with versatility and competence. However, he soon learns to be leery of the dead sorcerer's sigil.    This story is very similar in several ways to Hobb's Farseer Trilogy. Still, Snudge does not have a mentor to help him learn his talents. Instead, he swipes books from the library of the Royal Alchymist. Moreover, Snudge is the son of a common leatherworker rather than the illegitimate offspring of royalty.    Recommended for May fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of clever youngsters making their mark on the world.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-01-06
839248:US	49390985	RFRHT3FOQGRGC	0756401690	313475018	Mage Of Clouds #2: (The Cloud Mages #2)	Books	5	5	9	N	N	The First Holder's Daughter	Mage of Clouds (2004) is the second novel in the Cloudmages series, following [[ASIN:0756401526 Holder of Lightning]]. In the previous volume, First Holder Jenna Aoire and the Inishlanders faced the combined clochs of the Tuatha at Dun Kiil. The Creneach came and fought with the Inish, some ripping the gates open.    As the Inish stormed through the gates, Tuatha holders focused on Jenna and hammered her until she was cowering on her knees. She fell back into the Lamh Shabhala and it allowed her to absorb the energy of the clochs being used against her. She forced a settlement upon the Tuatha and Inish alike, but Mac Ard would not accept defeat and forced Jenna to slay him.    After withdrawal of the Tuatha forces, Jenna was chosen as Banrion of Inish Thuaidh. She met her baby brother Doyle for the first time on the tiny isle of Inishduan while returning the body of Mac Ard to her mother Maeve. Prior to his death, Mac Ard had legitimized the child and left him an estate. Jenna saw her mother for the last time as Maeve lit the funeral byre.    In this novel, nearly two decades later, Doyle comes to Dun Kiil Keep to notify Jenna of their mother's death and to warn her that the Tuatha will be coming again. Doyle also tells her that he considers Lamh Shabhala to be his inheritance from his father and that he will be attacking persons near to her if she doesn't voluntarily yield it to him. After he departs, Jenna sends her daughter Meriel to the Order of Inishfeirm for training and to protect her from Doyle and others in the Order of Gabair.    Meriel reacts badly to the news that she is being sent to Inishfeirm and tries to run away with her boyfriend, but is frustrated by Mundy Kirwan, the current Maister of the Order of Inishfeirm. He conducts Meriel back to the island and settles her into the life of an acolyte of the Order. Meriel soon finds her smooth hands becoming rough with the menial labor that is part of such a life.    Meriel has only recently discovered thedelight of male companionship. She writes daily letters to her boyfriend, but his one and only reply is terse enough to show his loss of interest. Thady MacCoughlin, a third year student with the Order, shows her around and invites her to slip out for a drink or two at the village tavern. Owaine Geraghty. a Brathair of the Order, seems to show up everywhere she goes. However, the Saimhoir Dhegli, a changeling and possessor of the Salmon of power, is the man/seal that interests her the most.    In this story, Doyle leads an attack on the Order of Inishfeirm and kidnaps Meriel, carrying her off to captivity. Dhegli sees the attack in a vision but arrives too late to avert it. However, he offers to take Owaine to the point where the Meriel was taken ashore and Owaine immediately accepts the offer, for he holds a clochmion that finds things. If he can get close enough, Owaine can follow Meriel and free her. Owaine climbs into a currach with only his clothes and his cloch and is towed over the sea by Dhegli.    This story is a tale of vengeance and greed, fed by old wrongs and slights that cause even more death and destruction. However, one new element has been added to the familiar pattern: Treorai's Heart. This new clochmion was once the life source of the Creneach Treorai. It had been given to Jenna by Treorai himself at the battle of Dun Kiil and the loss of the heartstone caused to the Creneach to collapse into a pile of rock and boulders.    In the hands of Meriel, Treorai's Heart is a healing stone. It has the power to knit broken bones, destroy infections, grow new flesh and mend deranged minds. However, although it can heal others, the cloch cannot heal Meriel herself.    The last volume in this series is [[ASIN:0756403219 Heir of Stone]].  Read and enjoy!    Highly recommended for Farrell fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of magic in an ancient celtic milieu.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-01-06
839306:US	49390985	R3H6GLF73KDWNL	0451459555	235202866	From The Heart Of The Storm	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A Major Setback	From the Heart of the Storm is the fourth novel in the Fallen Cloud series, following Shadow of the Storm.  In the previous volume, the Spanish ambassador to the United States, Alejandro Miguel Tomas Silveira-Rioja, arranged for a meeting between leaders of the Cheyenne Alliance and President Custer in Washington.  Yet Silveira also arranged to have the President's son, George Junior, assassinated as vengeance upon the father for an old hatred.  Unfortunately, the assassin also had old hatreds and attacked the father instead.  While the son struggled with the assassin, the guards shot at them and also hit Three Trees Together.  The guards arrested George Junior and the Cheyenne went home.    In this novel, Storm Arriving knows that the white men will attack in the spring and suggests that the Cheyenne Alliance start preparing for war during the winter rather than waiting for the thaw as they would normally do.  He also suggests that the Cheyenne approach the Crow, their old enemies, with the offer of an alliance.  Some of the Cheyenne leaders are vehemently opposed to such changes and refuse to accept his leadership.  Others follow him, but falter after the long campaign, and some few, both Cheyenne and Crow, are totally committed to him.    George Junior, called One Who Flies by the Cheyenne, is finally released from prison and makes a pilgrimage to the burial site of Three Trees Together;  after grieving for his old mentor, George takes the old medicine bag as a memento and rides northeast to the territory of the white men.  His beloved Mouse Road, the sister of Storm Arriving, regrets her harsh words to One Who Flies and realizes that she must let him be different from other men;  she decides to search for him.  Speaks While Leaving, the wife of Storm Arriving, goes with her and takes the infant Blue Shell Woman with them.    In Washington, Silveira's role in the assassination plot is revealed and he is recalled by the Spanish Viceroy.  George Senior is struggling to regain his abilities to talk and walk.  With the President's disability, Levi Morton, the Vice President, assumes the duties of the Presidency and increases military pressure against the Cheyenne, even resuming attacks against the women and children.  Morton also increases aid to Cuban rebels fighting for independence from Spain.    This story shows George Armstrong Custer Junior as a defeated and despondent man while George Armstrong Custer Senior is determined to overcome his handicaps.  Of course, George Senior has Libby, his wife of twenty-eight years, standing by his side and supporting him when he falters.  George Junior, however, thinks that he has lost the love of Mouse Road even after she and Speaks While Leaving follow him to the town of New Republic.    This segment shows the Cheyenne beginning to change their ways to adapt to the pressure of the white men.  They had already been using the weapons of the white men, but now Storm Arriving also starts to adopt some of the tactics of their enemy.  Moreover, he sees other changes that must occur if the Cheyenne are to survive, as do Speaks While Leaving and One Who Flies.    This novel is an excellent example of an alternate history fantasy, similar in many ways to Turtledove's Thessalonica.  The basic framework is historical, but with religious elements and other fantastic aspects intermingled with the history.  In this case, the author presents a very different perspective on US society in the interval between the Civil War and the Spanish-American War.    Highly recommended for Giambastiani fans and for anyone else for enjoys tales of various cultures with different socioeconomic structures and technological levels adjusting to each other.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-01-06
843292:US	49390985	R10EW8AASPBSTI	0689500572	917490301	Wraiths of Time	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A Princess of Amun	Wraiths of Time is a singleton novel about an ancient Egyptian civilization. Tallahassee Mitford is a student of archaeology and an assistant curator at the local museum. She has been employed to help catalogue the Lewis Brooke collection after the owner's accidental death the previous year. Dr. Roman Carey, a specialist in Egyptian and Nubian artifacts, has been called in to study the collection.    In this novel, the FBI have stumbled across a box in a locker at the airport that emits some unknown form of energy. Their initial survey does not find any obvious way of opening the object without damaging it. They involve Jason Robbins from the local FBI office because of his knowledge of African artforms and he then calls in his cousin Tally after recognizing the obvious age of the object. She identifies several African motifs in the design of the object and suggests that the FBI store the box in the museum safe overnight and then let Dr. Carey identify the artifact the following day.    After storing the box and its lead-lined carrier within the safe, Tally and Jason go out for dinner and then he escorts Tally to her apartment. Her phone is ringing when she arrives and her boss, Dr. Greenley, asks her to return immediately to the museum. Someone has ransacked Dr. Greenley's office, but the artifact itself remains untouched within the safe. When Tally shows it to Dr. Greenley, the supercilious Dr. Carey elbows his way to the object and opens it by pressing on both sides.    Within the box is a small bundle wrapped in yellowed material. Tally grabs his arm and warns him of the radiation, but Dr. Carey jerks away and picks up the bundle and, eluding an effort by Dr. Greenley to take the bundle, Carey unwraps it to show an ankh, which he then drops onto the desktop. There is a crash of thunder, the lights go out, and the glowing object rises in the air and moves off through the museum to another object stored therein, a rod of office from the Brooke collection. This object is also glowing, but more faintly. When she grasp the rod and the ankh touches it, Tally is surrounded by a riot of light, heat, sound and pain and then falls senseless.    In this story, Tally is hurled into a time after Egypt has been overrun by barbarians. She gains consciousness in a place of rock and sand, where she finds the dead body of someone who looks like her yet is dressed as a Royal princess. Moreover, the body is holding the ahkh and rod in either hand. Then a woman in the mask of a lioness comes upon Tally and the body, calls in two other women, and has them carry the girl's body into the nearby temple of Apedemek, the lion god.    Despite the evidence of her travel though space and time, Tally also discovers signs of an advanced civilization: a humming pillar and a flying machine with no apparent means of propulsion. And then she is introduced to a box that conducts thought between persons wearing the two earpieces.    Tally learns that she been thrown into an alternate timeline in which the refugees from Egypt, and later from the Kush, have fled far to the West, preserving and increasing their ancient knowledge. Her duplicate in this timeline was the Princess Ashake and now she is being asked to replace the Princess amidst a power struggle for the throne of the Empire of Amun. The Candace is the eldest child of the late Pharoah's sister and thus the proper heir to the throne. However, the Pharoah's son, Userkof, is attempting to usurp the throne with aid from Kashti, a person of great power who has found a way to pierce the wall between timelines.    This story illustrates some characteristic features in most science fiction tales by the author. Like many adventure tales that predated science fiction per se, it is filled with ancient ruins containing strange artifacts with inexplicable powers. Often these artifacts are gateways to unknown realms and are guarded by powerful monsters. Most of the technology in these tales is commonplace in SF (theauthor may have invented some of it) but a few technological objects are so advanced as to be incomprehensible to the scientists and techs who study it. Even before Clarke coined his third law, the author was writing about advanced technology that was indistinguishable from magical artifacts.    This story is another tale of crosstime travel but with elements of the ancient Egyptian religion intermingled with technology. The plot is a bit weak and is very similar to that of the author's Shadow of Albion fantasy novel. However, the story is a good adventure among the exotic ambiance of an Empire of Amun that never existed in our own universe.    Highly recommended for Norton fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of ancient societies mixed with very advanced technology.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-01-03
845121:US	49390985	R12YRP9BUN2FV3	0152034978	674110750	Android at Arms	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Man or Android?	Android At Arms is a singleton novel set in the Psychocrat universe, a subset of the primary future history. Lightning strikes a building on an otherwise uninhabited world and the residents are stunned senseless. Awaking, they find themselves in unfamiliar surroundings and company. All the power is off and the robots found within the building are standing immobile.    In discussing their situation, they conclude that they have been under the influence of an inhibitor, which muddles the mind. As they exchange information, the last date remembered by each of the residents differs over a range of decades. Moreover, each was involved in some time-sensitive activity. Then one of them tells of a rumor he has heard of a service that, for a suitable fee, offers to replace selected persons with programmed androids. Since each of the residents remembers being a person of consequence, they wonder if they are the originals or the androids.    In this novel, Imperial Prince Andas of Inyanga awakes in a gray box with very simple furniture and dressed in a coarse one-piece coverall. He assumes that the building must be a prison, but the door is standing half-open. He finds other residents, including the aliens Demizonda Elys of Posedonia and Lord Yolyos of Sargol as well as Arch Chief Tsiwon of Naul, Veep Turpyn of the Guild, and Chief Councilor Grasty of Thrisk. Together, these six crowd into an automated supply ship and divert it to Inyanga. However, the Guild Veep has a trick up his sleeve.    In this story, Andas eventually returns to Inyanga, but finds that many years have passed since his own time. Another Andas sits on the throne as Emperor and his men hunt Andas and Yolyos. Though they escape the hunters, another power haunts Andas' dreams and draws him through a opening between timelines into a strange Inyanga where his counterpart is also hunted, but by the followers of the Old Woman.    This novel is obviously related to other books by the author, including the Psychocrat connection with Ice Crown. The similarities with the Solar Queen series include the Salariki of Plague Ship as well as the cultural parallels with the African settlers of Voodoo Planet. The mentions of Zacathans, the Guild and Jacks tie in with most other works in the future history.    This story is typical of the author's quest plotlines, with a strong destiny component. The author foreshadows most of the twists, but some seem a bit contrived. Overall, however, this novel is a good, if not great, adventure story with an interesting puzzle at its heart.    Highly recommended for Norton fans and for anyone else who enjoys mystery quest tales with a young determined protagonist.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2004-01-02
845720:US	49390985	R3AHVYBS6123GY	0345443764	940446169	Gulf Run (Demontech, Book 3)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A Problem of Command	Gulf Run (2003) is the third novel in the Demontech series, following Rally Point.  In the previous novel, Spinner and Haft have led their band of refugees south along the Eastern Waste until they encountered the small town of Eikby.  The refugees made camp nearby and the leaders entered the town to reassure the residents.  While they are away, the camp was attacked by bandits.  After that attack is repulsed, the refugees and townsmen started building obstacles and clearing fields of fire around the town and evacuating the noncombatants.  Repeatedly attacked by bandits and Jokapcul, Eikby was eventually burned to the ground.  However, Spinner and Haft escaped with over a thousand townsmen and other refugees.    In this novel, the refugees manage to ambush and overcome the pursuing Jokapcul troops and reach Dartmutt just in time to see the Jokapcul invade the city from the sea.  Fleeing once again, they head north to the Low Desert.  On the way, they collect thousands of additional refugees, including hundreds of fighting men and many more who could fight with the proper training.  Then they encounter Sergeant Rammer, the detachment leader who had to be left behind when Spinner and Haft escaped from New Bally.    Spinner and Haft are having command problems.  Since they are merely junior enlisted men -- Lord Gunny calls them \\"pea ons\\" -- many of the men under their command hold higher rank.  Then they encounter a Dartmutter captain who demands that they yield command to him.  Now their old detachment leader shows up.  Their followers will not allow them to relinquish command, yet Sergeant Rammer is much more experienced than they are.    The refugee caravan has become the size of a small town, with the logistical problems of an army on the move.  Moreover, they have a divided command structure, with the military leadership having to defer to the women on matters of health and well-being of the civilians and wounded.  Both Spinner and Haft feel overwhelmed by the problems that are outside their area of competence.  They really need some guidance from Rammer.  What to do?    Spinner is also having woman problems.  Alyline, the Golden Girl, still resents his \\"liberation\\" of her from slavery, Doli stills wants him for herself, and Maid Primrose still believes he has been two-timing both Alyline and Doli.  On the other hand, Haft is still enjoying good relations with Maid Marigold.    This story adds new complexities and problems to the plot.  Defeating the Jokapcul in combat is becoming almost routine, but taking care of so many refugees requires a new command structure and additional expertise.  Moreover, their path will take them through country that is inhabited by some very hostile natives.    Highly recommended for Sherman fans and for anyone else who enjoys military fantasy with real world problems.	2004-01-01
847927:US	49390985	R1MO06Y6Z8JRUB	0743436156	246813343	The War Against Earth	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Husband, Wife and the Tanks	The War With Earth (2003) is the second novel in the New Kashubia series, following A Boy and His Tank.  In the previous volume, Mickolai Derdowski has been sentenced to death on his home world of New Kashubia for impregnating his girlfriend, but was offered the alternative of joining the army instead.   He was assigned to a Mark XIX Main Battle Tank, the Aggressor, with an sentient AI module that he named Agnieshka.    After his training is completed, Mickolai is transferred to New Yugoslavia as a tanker first class, fighting with the Kashubian Expeditionary Force on behalf of New Croatia and against New Serbia.  Soon he finds that Kasia has joined voluntarily and has found a way to merge their Dream Worlds.    Four and a half years later, Mickolai is a general in the KEF and Kasia is a colonel and his chief of staff.  Mickolai has three divisions under him, liberated from the Serbian army.  Kasia finds a Catholic priest among the new tankers and she and Mickolai are married.  For their honeymoon, they take the three divisions and assault the Serbians from the rear.  Afterwards, the New Kashubians make a movie of Mickolai's life.    In this novel, Agnieshka informs Mickolai that all his previous war experience has only been virtual and that he is not really a general.  After his initial shock and anger have worn off, Mickolai discusses the situation with Kasia.  The first thing Mickolai wants is to get married in the real world by a real priest, but Kasia disagrees, insisting that the first thing they are going to do is to clean up and go clothes shopping.    After they are properly clad, they head for the nearest priest, but he wants them to take confession on everything done in the six years since the were first sealed into their tanks.  After consulting with Agnieshka, they approach another priest who has had prior experience with the KEF and arrange for the wedding.  However, the first wedding date soon has to be postponed due to the crowd of people who want toattend.    While Kasia is planning the wedding, Mickolai starts looking for farming property, but New Croatia is well developed and prime property is expensive.  However, Kasia discovers that a very large tract has been deeded to New Kashubia as the alleged warzone and property is available to KEF veterans at very reasonable rates.  Moreover, Kasia has negotiated a deal with the KEF authorities to pay Mickolai and herself at their virtual rank.    After the wedding, Mickolai start a six month honeymoon, during which time they start parlaying their backpay into the beginnings of a large fortune.  They arrange for idle Mark XIXs to be used as farming and construction equipment to develop their property.  They also buy a large number of humanoid drones to do the precision work.  Their tanks and other AI personas in the KEF voluntarily supervise the work.    Mickolai and Kasia had been informed that a possibility of war existed and that they should be prepared for deployment with little warning.  When the assembly order is issued, however, they find that the war will be with an unexpected foe:  Earth forces have invaded New Kashubia.    In this story, the Powers That Be on New Kashubia selected Jan Sobieski as commanding general on the basis of his performance in Dream World.  When General Sobieski wants something done, however, he usually picks Mickolai and his staff to lead the assault forces.  They might not be as elegant as other command teams, but they always get the job done.    This story does not dwell on the psychological quirks of the protagonist, for he mostly says what he thinks and acts accordingly.  Mickolai wears his heart on his sleeve, as the saying goes, and is not really a deep thinker.  However, he is a quicker thinker in urgent situations and adept at seeing long-term consequences, but otherwise tends to be rather methodical in his planning and implementation.  He is a high-level policy maker who is also good at finding the gaps in the planning andhe is superb at handling personnel.  Overall, Mickolai makes a good field general.    While Mickolai and the KEF have little difficultly in defeating their foes in this novel, a better equipped and prepared enemy would have done much more damage to an unsupported armor unit like the KEF.  Assuming that anti-tank weapons had improved as much as the tanks themselves, an alert infantry force with such weapons could almost certainly ambush these tanks and take out many of the units if the KEF had advanced without proper screening forces.  However, the Earth forces are ill-equipt, poorly trained and slack in their security and are slaughtered by the thousands.    Highly recommended for Frankowski fans and for anyone else who enjoys SF war stories in which strategy, tactics, logistics and teamwork are emphasized more that combat itself.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-12-30
849136:US	49390985	R3DUT7NAGYXA2B	0441011284	54649364	Starship	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Slow Boat to the Stars	Starship is the second novel in the Exploration Chronicles, following Signals.  In the previous volume, astronomers determined that signals coming from space were being emitted by an FTL spacecraft.  The Earth alliance sent out a newly developed long-range spaceship to meet the incoming starship, but the alien vessel veered off after detecting it and headed back out to deep space.  The visit of the alien vessel drove an international effort to produce Human starships.    In this novel, Thomas Hackett, now promoted to Lieutenant Colonel, heads the team producing the first generation ship, The Home.  Susan Bakker is part of his team.  They celebrate the launch of the ship and then go back to work on more generation ships.    Two and a half centuries later, The Home is having problems with unrest among the residents.  Using a regime of drugs and conditioning, they manage to suppress most unruliness.  Unfortunately, some residents manage to evade the surveillance devices and attack the food supply.  The Home is soon finding itself with severe problems and needs a new supply of organics to make up their losses.    The ruling council sends out ships to search nearby systems for habitable planets to live on while the ship is being purged of poisons.  All the search teams report only uninhabitable worlds with one exception:  one team has discovered a habitable moon that is already inhabited.  Of course, it is off-limits under the original rules for colonization, but the destruction of the last healthy crop leads to a temporary change of priorities and the ship heads for the moon.    In this story, several young people find themselves gaining an unprecedented degree of freedom as the drugs and conditioning wear off during the emergency.  They find themselves able to think the unthinkable and do the undoable.  Somehow that makes them better survivors in their new conditions.    While this story is based on an old idea dating back to Heinlein's Universe, the author inserts some new twists and adds a touch of alien contact.  The action is rather slow at first and the interaction between characters is muted by the drugs and conditioning.  Moreover, the generation ship is about as exciting as any small town in the middle of the week.  Nevertheless, this story is an adequate bridge to the next installment.    Recommended for Randle fans and anyone who enjoys stories of people in strange environments and conditions.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-12-30
849560:US	49390985	R1M46TFAFCNDOX	0743449126	116944393	3: Tong Lashing: The Continuing Adventures of Sir Apropos of Nothing	Books	5	3	5	N	N	The Secret of Power Is Nothing	Tong Lashing is the third novel in the Sir Apropos of Nothing series, following Woad to Wuin.  In the previous volume, Apropos discovered that he was being used by Hecate and the shades of the Rockmunchers. He sacrificed the worldly body of Hecate and shattered the Eye of the Beholder.  Then, faced with the shadows of the Rockmunchers, he turned their own fears against the spirits and drove them away.      Apropos and Sharee cleaned up the debris from the shadows massacre and buried the rejoined Eye of the Beholder.  Preparing to leave, Apropos addressed a question to Mordant, as he has done many times before, but this time Mordant answered.  Continuing their conversation, they travel out of the desert to Port Degras.  There Apropos is offered an chance to join with Sharee and Mordant in a quest, but he declines.    In this novel, Apropos sails on the Larp toward Azure Island.  One of his fellow passengers, Ronnell McDonnell of Clan McDonnell, is a powerful weaver as well as a roleplaying game enthusiast.  He sets up a game of his devising with the passengers but McDonnell gets to be gamemaster and arranges for the other players to die in the game ... and in real life.  Yet Apropos manages to turn the game itself against McDonnell, but the weaver explodes and blows a hole in the side of the boat.  Yet Apropos is sucked out of the ship clinging to the table, but he floats in the sea for days without sight of land or ship.    When he finally comes ashore, he discovers that he is within the land of Chinpan.  He is met by mistrustful farmers, but a little girl paves the way for his acceptance.  He remains in the village of Hosbiyu for months, learning the language and helping with the crops.  Then three men from the Skang Kei family appear and offer \\"protection\\" to the villagers.    In this story, Apropos continues to face his fears and find ways to avoid their stranglehold on his life.  He begins to like the villagers and admires their peace of mind.  He becomes a disciple of Chinpan Ali, an old man with a a firm grasp of Zennihilation, to seek such peace.  Later, his concern for the welfare of the villagers drives him to depart to seek an audience with the Imperior.    In this story, Apropos observes a group of sexually demented female ninjas appear and disappear again.  He finds Mitsu, an excellent fighter but young and moody, trying to help Mordant escape from a cage in a traveling circus.  He is granted great honors by the feckless Imperior, but powerful men plot against him.  And he meets Veruh Wang Ho, who becomes the great love in his life.    In this novel, the author pulls out all the stops with the wordplay.  Although Apropos eventually learns the names of all the villagers, the most common name is Chin and he labels them all with variations of the name that reflect some attribute.  He calls his host \\"Double Chin\\" and his hostess \\"Lun Chin\\".  Her sister is \\"Kit Chin\\" and the little girl is \\"Kit Chinette\\".  Later, Apropos meets an important imperial general named \\"Go Nogo\\".    This novel is the last in the series, at least for now, and the story terminates with a resounding finality.  All of Apropos' illusions are shattered and his loves are lost.  In the end, he is left with Nothing ... with a capital \\"N\\".    Highly recommended for David fans and for anyone else who enjoys puns, twisted macabre plots, and sheer destruction.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-12-29
850422:US	49390985	R2K4QO6A2BMYEQ	0671720694	352217596	Marching Through Georgia	Books	5	25	25	N	N	The Master Race Meets the Master Class	Marching Through Georgia is the first novel in the Draka series.  In another timeline, the losers from wars in America and Europe, philosophers without followers, and other misfits migrated to the Draka Crown Colony in South Africa.  Over decades the colony took over the entirety of sub-Sahara Africa and then the Balkans, becaming the sovereign Domination of Draka in 1919.<br />During World War II, the Domination entered the war with an airdrop onto Sicily in 1941. Six months later, the Germans had taken Moscow and the Wehrmacht in south Georgia are threatening the Draka conquests in Armenia.  The Draka are assembling armored legions in Armenia to attack through the Caucasus Mountains and drop two legions of airborne at night to clear the passes of the Ossetian Military Highway.  Opposing them is a panzer regiment of the Waffen-SS, Liebstandarte Adolf Hitler.<br />In this novel, the von Shrakenberg family are descendents of a Hessian mercenary paid off with land in southern Africa after the British lost their war against the American rebels.  Karl is an Arch-Strategos, a general of the Supreme General Staff.  His son Eric is Centurion of Century A, 1st Airborne Legion.  His daughter Johanna is a Pilot Officer flying Eagle interceptors.<br />Karl is back in Castle Tarleton overlooking Archona, the capital of Draka.  He is worried about Eric leading his century in the Caucasus Mountains and Johanna flying an Eagle out of Kars.  He knows the North Caucasus campaign is risky, but necessary for the Domination to grow.<br />Century A has an American reporter, Bill Dreiser, with them as they drop into the mountains.  It is his first airdrop and he is understandably nervous.  As he leaps from the plane and falls, he grasps the release toggle and gives a single firm jerk.<br />This novel shows the personal lives of the van Shrakenberg family after the Sicily campaign in their plantation Oakenwald, intermingled with the assault on Village One along the Ossetian Military Highway.  It describes the history of the Domination and the people who become the Draka.  It also tells something of their serfs and their enemies.<br />The assault on Village One is depicted in great detail, from the first sentry taken out by the advancing Draka to the final confrontation and the subsequent relief by the Janissaries.  It is a tale of a trained, experienced and well-led combat unit with excellent morale and determination.  Unfortunately, they happen to be slave-holding imperialists.<br />This story is plausible and frightening in concept.  What if the British had encouraged loyalists from the former American colonies to settle in South Africa?  What if those settlers had been imperialistic and had expanded into Rhodesia a century before Cecil Rhodes?  What if they continued their expansion to the rest of sub-Saharan Africa and then to the Ottomon Empire?  Would the resulting state have a social structure combining the worst features of the Confederacy and the Afrikaners, but with a government more militarized and efficient than the Spartans or Prussians?  Welcome to the Domination.<br />...The slave trade itself was banned in 1834 and this ban was enforced by British warships.  However, the British hold in Africa was very lose prior to the 1880's and the taking of slaves within the African continent was not ended until 1891.  Even after the Boer War, a form of non-chattel slavery remained in the practice of apartheid.<br />Highly recommended for Stirling fans and for anyone else who enjoys alternate history depicting ground combat in the worst of all possible worlds.	2003-12-29
853465:US	49390985	R2T0MZWWB8TIFW	0345451325	953390251	The Fall of Reach (Halo, Bk. 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Before the Halo	The Fall of Reach (2001) is the first SF novel in the Halo series. In 2517, Lieutenant JG Jacob Keyes and Dr. Halsey inspected the final candidates for the SPARTAN II project. On Eridanus 2, candidate 117 is a six year old boy named John.    In this novel, John 117 and seventy-four other six year olds are initiated into the military worldview, learning teamwork and esprit de corps. They are taught a wide range of academic subjects as well as military skills. They are tested in field exercises with devious surprises and nonobvious goals. They are subjected to drugs and surgery to increase their strength and reaction time. The weak, slow and unlucky are weeded out through death and disability, but those unfit for combat are retained in staff and support positions. Those who complete the training are sent on missions against insurgents, pirates and other threats.     In 2525, an alien force attacks the Harvest colony. These aliens don't try to conquer the planet, but rather reduce it to slag. The aliens issue only one communication, in the human language, stating that the destruction of humanity is the will of the gods and that the Covenant is their instrument. This Covenant apparently comprises several different sentient species. Their vessels are superior to the Human warships, with better weapons and a form of reactive shield.    The remaining SPARTANs are immediately transported to the Damascus Materials Testing Facility on Chi Ceti 4. After their ship fights off a Covenant vessel, the SPARTANs are dropped onto the planet and taken deep underground to the MJOLNIR project area. There they are each fitted into their MJOLNIR armor and quickly trained in its use. Then they depart the planet to rendezvous with their transport, but the Covenant ship returns and they use their new armor to board and mine the enemy spacecraft.    This novel is a prequel to the Halo game scenario. It provides the backstory of SPARTAN-117, the Master Chief. It also tells of the first incursions of the Covenant into Human space, the subsequent battles in space and on the ground, and the eventual fall of Reach. It describes the fate of the other SPARTANs and the escape of the Pillar of Autumn into the system containing the Halo artifact.     This story is a vivid description of the deliberate modification by drugs, surgery and conditioning of a group of superior six year old children into awesome military tools. The original purpose of these super troopers is the suppression of discontent among the colonies by an autocratic government. However, the appearance of hostile aliens with far superior technology changes their roles from agents of oppression to the last hope of humanity.    This story also contains some interesting concepts in the formation of Artificial Personalities. It postulates two kinds of AI personalities, one with a large, but limited set of responses and another with an essentially open-ended learning capability. The first kind is stable and has a long life cycle. The second, however, is limited to a useful life cycle of about seven years.    This story has several flaws in the use of military ranks and customs. There is entirely too much saluting going on, for salutes are rendered even to noncoms. Moreover, there is a scene in which a Chief Petty Officer is saluted by two Lieutenant JGs and is apparently their commander. Of course, ranks and customs will probably change in the future, but the existence of commissioned and noncommissioned ranks indicate the existence of something like the present command structure.    Highly recommended for anyone who enjoys stories of military combat and super warriors.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-12-26
853620:US	49390985	RT0RWZK68ZMN4	0345459210	420580416	The Flood (Halo #2)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	One Long Firefight	The Flood is the second novel in the Halo series, following The Fall of Reach.  In the previous volume, the Covenant forces discovered Reach and invaded in force.  They also used a new weapon system, a sort of sniper ship that could cut Human warships in half at great range.      The Pillar of Autumn was outbound on a mission when the aliens arrived, but her orders were changed and she immediately decelerated to return to the rally point.  In the ensuing fighting, the ship was heavily damaged, but managed to kill several Covenant vessels, including the sniper ship.  When a scan detected aliens dropships entering the Reach atmosphere at the poles, the Master Chief ordered most of his SPARTANs down to the surface to protect the energy sources for the orbital superMAC weapons and he himself led a small group to destroy the navigational data on an unregistered ship in spacedock.      Despite all SPARTAN efforts, the Covenant forces on Reach took out the superMAC power units and the planet fell.  SPARTANs in the spacedock penetrated enemy forces and pulverized the navigation memory in the unregistered ship, but only the Master Chief survived the mission.  The Pillar of Autumn, despite her damage, picked up the Master Chief and fled on a randomized evasion course.  The ship exited Slipspace in a stellar system containing a huge ring-like object, the Halo artifact.  Ten thousand kilometers in diameter and twenty-two point three kilos thick, the Halo is made of unknown materials, but apparently has some form of artificial gravity and a breathable atmosphere.      Unfortunately, the Pillar of Autumn has been followed by Covenant forces through Slipspace and others were already there when they arrived, swarming on and around the artifact.  Shortly after exiting Slipspace, the ship was attacked and boarded.  Sailors and marines resisted the intruders, but Captain Keyes was forced to call for an evacuation.     In this novel, Human dropships, lifeboats and one-man reentry vehicles land in a widely scattered, but still limited area on the Halo.  Captain Keyes and a minimal flight crew stay on the ship to guide her into a crash-landing nearby, waiting to the last moment to evacuate.  The Master Chief, with the AI Cortana within his armor, rides one of the lifeboats down to a crash-landing on the surface.    Most of the Humans soon find themselves in firefights with Covenant forces.  The ODST marines manage to land is a relatively small area and immediately secure the DZ.  Major Silva has his AI Wesley, named for the Duke of Wellington, scan the area for defensible positions and selects a very tall, slender butte-like formation for his future firebase.  Of course, it is already occupied by Covenant forces, but that is a mere detail to the Helljumpers.    Captain Keyes doesn't even reach the surface before he encounters a stealthed Elite within his lifeboat.  Once they hit the surface, they flee through the most rugged country available with alien dropships on their tail.  For some reason, however, the aliens seem to be trying to capture them.    In this story, the Master Chief has some problems with the ODST Major, who is unusually prejudiced against SPARTANs.  However, Major Silva soon learns that he is the only one so prejudiced and his own marines would welcome the SPARTAN along on any patrol.  The body count racked up by the Master Chief is impressive, but the Covenant forces also notice his effectiveness and target him for special attention.    The Humans quickly discover that the Halo is an artifact of a species called the Forerunners by the Covenant.  Apparently Covenant technology largely derives from Forerunner artifacts and they would like to reverse engineer the Halo, which they are convinced is a very powerful weapon.  Cortana investigates the Forerunner information systems and is beginning to think that the Covenant are correct in assessing the artifact's lethality.  Then the Humans encounter the Flood.    This story is a convincing portrayal of surface and space combat in the 26th century, but the hand weapons and vehicles used by the Humans seem to be rather primitive considering their FTL drives and other advanced technology.  However, Human space has apparently suffered a socioeconomic collapse at some time in the past and now has a regressive government that may not allow much basic research due to the destabilizing effects of new technology.  The SPARTAN II project itself was hampered by bureaucratic objections and obstructions, so maybe only a few projects with politically adept directors are being funded.    Highly recommended for anyone who enjoys combat on the ground and in space, with deadly foes equipped with more advanced weaponry.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-12-26
854152:US	49390985	R2T7FLUW01JZ9E	0152047719	51283970	The Wizard's Holiday: The Seventh Book in the Young Wizards Series	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Wizards on a Holiday?	Wizard's Holiday (2003) is the seventh novel in the Young Wizards series, following A Wizard Alone. In the previous volume, Kit and Ponch had disappeared into Darryl's world. Nita, with a little help from the residual anger from her mother's death, dreamed her way into Darryl's world, located its kernel and freed everybody from the mirror trap. She talked Darryl into freeing the fragment of the Lone Power trapped in his world and then Darryl, Nita, Kit and Ponch returned to their own reality. However, Darryl left behind something to keep the Lone Power occupied when it returned.    In this novel, Dairine applies to a wizard exchange program for Nita and herself without asking permission from anyone. After the dust settles, Dairine is restricted to the Solar System, but Nita, Kim and Ponch are going to Alaalu, a planet on the other side of the galactic core. Nita and Kit are each provided with an information packet, a \\"pup tent\\" and a subsidized mobile world-gate.     Since the pup tent is a claudication the size of Nita's bedroom, packing isn't the problem of having too little space, but rather one of taking too much. Nita packs her desk and all her swimsuits -- did I mention the beach -- and finally decides enough is enough; she can always return through the personal world-gate to get anything she missed. In fact, she will have to come back for sun block for she burns very easily and naturally all the sun block in the house is outdated.    Kit has the usual problem with his mother's over concern for his well-being, but the pup tent allows him to pack everything she suggests. Tom Swale modifies a cellphone for Nita's Dad so that he can call through her manual. Finally, everything is ready and Nita, Kit and Ponch leave, transiting first to Grand Central Terminal and taking a public world-gate from there to the Galactic worldgates at Crossings.    While Nita is away, her Dad and Dairine have three wizards from other worlds as house guests. Sker'ret is a metallic purple oversized centipede. Filif is a migratory tree. Roshaun is a very good looking humanoid. Dairine greets them as they arrive and immediately feels simpatico with Sker'ret and Filif, but Roshaun seems a bit arrogant and unfriendly.    This novel describes a holiday that soon resembles errantry. Alaalu is a close approximation of paradise, but Nita has a hunch that something is wrong. Quelt, the only wizard on Alaalu, also has feelings that she is missing something.    Meanwhile, back home, Dairine discovers that Sker'ret can eat canned foods, including the can, as well as jars, plates and silverware. Filif is very afraid of fire, but loves to root himself in the rhododendron bed. Roshaun is susceptible to Carmela's charms, but is still moody.    This story continues the tale of the maturating young wizards, particularly Dairine, dealing with the consequences of death and the other \\"gifts\\" of the Lone Power. This segment shows how yet another sentient species dealt with the Choice and the long-term -- 100,000 years -- results of that decision. Moreover, things at home start to heat up a bit while Nita and Kit are away.    Highly recommended for Duane fans and for anyone else who enjoys musing about evil, entropy and wizardry.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-12-25
854281:US	49390985	REO2UHV0SP5GE	0451454057	290529238	Aggressor Six	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Becoming the Enemy	Aggressor Six is the first SF novel by the author.  Several centuries in the future, Earth has settled the Solar system and established colonies in five other stellar systems using fusion-powered slow ships.  All of the colonies, except Sirius, have FTL communications with Earth through massive ansible relays.  Unfortunately, an alien invasion from the waist of Orion hit the Sirius colony first and, before the news could reach the other human planets by lightspeed radio signals, a second force hit the Wolf colony.  The Waister ships, traveling at  ninety percent of lightspeed, then moved against the Lalande colony and a scout group attacked the Solar System. <br />The human government tried  desperately to understand the alien technology and to find some way to counter or nullify the alien weapons.  Using memory retrieval technology, they discovered much about the alien language and social structure.  However, most of the alien technology was incomprehensible to human researchers.<br />In this novel, one small group, Aggressor Six, is dedicated to understanding the aliens by learning to &quot;live and think and spit like the enemy&quot;.  Captain Marshe Talbott is the queen, Navy Lieutenant Josev Ranes is Drone One, Marine Corporal Ken Jonson is Drone Two, Lieutenant Sopho Yeng is Worker One, Sergeant Roland Hanlin is Worker Two, and Shenna is the Dog.  All have had a Broca web implanted with the Waister language loaded and available to their own brains.  Sheena, a Martian Retriever, has a vocoder on her collar to help her speak.<br />Ken Jonson is the only one in the group that has ever had contact with the Waisters, although it has all been during firefights.  One of the reasons that he has been selected is his prior interest in acting.  At first, he keeps having post-traumatic shocks from his experiences while boarding a Waister ship and subduing the crew.  Once he gets beyond the flashbacks, however, he starts trying to think, act and talk like a Waister.  Soonthe whole group is doing the same.<br />Captain Talbott's superior, Colonel Jhee, is a by-the-book administrator and doesn't really understand the objective of the group.  He threatens to cut their funds on several occasions and soon begins to wonder at their sanity.  He also keeps information from them.<br />Aggressor Six soon starts to produce assessments of enemy objectives, tactics and motives, but Colonel Jhee only wants to know where they will strike and when.  He also wants that information yesterday.  Whenever Talbott and the group try to explain the necessity of working through the available data, he threatens to bring them up on charges if they don't produce according to his deadlines.<br />Then Aggressor Six learns that they are not alone, but that two other Aggressor Six groups have been established.  Their Waister knowledge insists that they must face the other groups.  Colonel Jhee blows his top and locks them into their quarters.<br />This story is an interesting extrapolation of current techniques of assessing enemy policies and strategies.  The human forces also have some advanced technology compared to the present and use it to gain a great deal of data on the enemy mindset.  The problem is integrating all this data into usable information, so the Aggressor Six groups were formed.<br />This novel has a few weaknesses, including the introduction of slowlight, the ghosts, and several scenes involving outside groups.  These sections rather distracted from the main story.  However, the scenes where Jonson is boarding the scout ship and fighting his way out again definitely contributed to the storyline.  Overall, the plot was interesting and ran smoothly, with those few exceptions.<br />Recommended for McCarthy fans and for anyone else who enjoys military SF involving analysis of enemy intentions and capabilities.	2003-12-25
857447:US	49390985	R3IBM8MFBYWZUJ	1587150530	217968193	The Fury Out of Time	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Traveller From the Future?	The Fury Out of Time is a science fiction mystery.  Major Bowden Karvel is a retired Air Force officer and astronaut.  Discharged for disability at the age of 36 with an artificial leg and a bitter attitude, he is lonely, bored and drinking too much.  He is living in a trailer park outside Hatch Air Force Base and just marking time.      In this novel, Karvel has gone to Whistler's Country Tavern for a little company, although Ma Whistler forces him to eat some breakfast as well.  After an argument, Whistler sets out an umbrella table and two chairs in the backyard area called a garden.  As he is watching the magnificent view of the nearby valley, something starts knocking down trees in a widening spiral and soon pushes Karvel off his feet.  As Karvel lies bleeding twenty feet away and the table sails off down into the valley, Whistler comments on the lack of noise.    Although called a tornado for convenience,  the phenomenon is definitely not a weather condition nor anything else previously observed.  Karvel orders the base personnel at the tavern to start rescue efforts and alerts the base itself.  Then he drives out to view the origin of the fury and finds a dullish-black ten-foot sphere in a hollow.  Nearby he finds an impossible butterfly.    The first part of the novel describes the efforts and evidence that finally convinces the authorities that the sphere is a time machine.  Eventually Karvel gets into the sphere and travels forward in time.  There he finds an advanced society, but also some inconsistencies.    This novel presents some interesting concepts and characters.  As with most of the author's other science fiction works, the protagonist of this story is presented with a mystery which he must solve.  The puzzle itself is as fascinating as the strange cultures Karvel encounters along the way.    The ending ties up all the loose strings and leaves Karvel with many options.  Furthermore, he has time to decide what to do with the rest of his life, but we will probably never know which option he selects.    Highly recommended for Biggle fans and for anyone else who enjoys SF mysteries and strange cultures.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-12-22
857483:US	49390985	R2TYD83U8LKYGX	0060006269	468378126	Patriots in Arms	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Awards of Loyalty	Patriot in Arms is the third novel in the In Arms series, following Rebels In Arms.  In the previous volume, some elements of the Seventeen System Guard Corps disguised as alliances forces attack Aire-Wu and then the alliances take advantage of the confusion to really invade the planet.  After the alliances capture the reconditioning facility, Ms. Brooks blows the demo charges to deny it to the enemy. Again Scott St. Andrew has been frustrated in his attempt to be reconditioned.  After escaping to Rexi-Calhoun, he is given command of a battalion in defense of Columbia Colony and he finds that his brother Jarrett has been assigned as one of his company commanders under an assumed name.<br />In this novel, Columbia Colony is attacked by massive alliances forces who have used the proper codes to penetrate the space defense.  Ordering an evacuation of the position, Scott tries to hold back the tide of alliances troop, but is overwhelmed by the attack.  He barely manages to escape with the assistance of Halitov and Elise Rainey, a reporter who had remained behind to cover the fighting retreat, only to find herself in a rout.<br />Obviously there is a traitor among the Colonial Wardens.  Worst yet, the techs discover that some conditioned troops can withhold information from a cerebo scan.  The traitor could be any conditioned trooper with the pertinent knowledge.<br />Scott and Halitov are reassigned as &quot;combat consultants&quot; to Colonel Beauregard until such time as they can be reconditioned.  However, the war interrupts those plans and they are shipped off to Exeter, where they are captured by the alliances, but their ATC is hijacked by a conditioned former cadet and diverted to Illica.  There they are promptly attacked by alliances forces.<br />This volume is the conclusion of the current story arc.  It ends a tale of the fast-moving, topsy-turvy life of a professional soldier who puts loyalty above personal desires.  After many mistakes, unfortunate events andchanges in allegiance, he still remains loyal to the people of the seventeen systems.  However, he loses much of his naivety and gains more than a touch of cynicism along the way.<br />This novel is told as flashbacks by the Colonel Alliance Security Chief more than two decades after the recollected events.  Once again war looms over the Colonial Alliance and Scott St. Andrew wants to keep such horror from happening again.  As he prepares to fight for reconciliation, Scott remembers his past experiences as a warrior.<br />Be aware that this story has a strong explicit component of destiny within the plot.  Meetings and happenings occur with seeming randomness, but they move Scott further along toward his destined role.  While the frustration of his attempts to be reconditioned become a sort of running joke, such denial is vital to the conclusion of the story.  <br />Recommended for Weaver fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of war, warriors, and political intrigue.	2003-12-22
858256:US	49390985	R2VFEX34YX4MR6	0765302799	812207838	Dragon Venom (Obsidian Chronicles, Bk. 3)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Caught Between the Dragons and the Wild Magic`	Dragon Venom is the third novel in the Obsidian Chronicles, following Dragon Society.  In the previous volume, the Aritheians were successful in curing Lady Rime of her venom contaminated blood;  she was no longer a dragonheart.  When the dragon spawn was killed, the parent Dragon felt it and came to take vengeance on Arlian.  Toribor volunteered to lure the dragon within range of the newfangled spear-thrower and was enveloped in the dragon's venom, but Arlian triggered the machine and hit the dragon with four obsidian-headed spears, yet did not kill it.  He then leaped on the dragon and, hanging by one hand, shoved a spear in deeper until it penetrated the heart.    In this novel, Arlian has been appointed as the Duke's warlord and for the past fourteen years has been searching out and killing dragons in their lairs during the winter, when they are asleep and dormant.  After cleaning out yet another lair, Arlian decides to return to Manfort for a while.  Releasing the campfollowers at Crackstone, leaving most of his men in Ethinior, and sending Rolinor on ahead to Manfort, Arlian and Black return home together.    In Manfort, Arlian learns from Isein of disturbances along the southern border.    After a good night's sleep, Arlian sends word of his return to the Duke.  He visits the Old Palace and Lady Rime while he awaits word from the Duke, but becomes impatient after three days and drops in on the Duke unsummoned.    The Duke informs Arlian that the Southern borders have suffered encroachments of wild magic and suggests that the death of so many dragons may have led to a weakening of the barrier to such magic.  Arlian has to agree, especially after a messenger from the Dragon Society confirms this news and offers a truce with the dragons.  Under the circumstances, he promises to not kill any more dragons without the Duke's permission.  However, he wonders how the dragons have fended off the wild magic and determines to travel south to find some answers.    In this story, Arlian learns even more about magic of all kinds.  He meets magicians, wizards and the thing in Tirikindaro.  Then he performs some experiments with dragon venom.    This volume satisfactorily concludes the story arc, although it leaves open the possibilities of future sequels.  The author does still have some fascinating magical concepts to play with and a whole new cast of characters being born.  Oh, the possibilities!    Highly recommended for Watt-Evans fans and for anyone else who enjoys stories of magic, dragons and heroes with a slightly different slant.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-12-21
863064:US	49390985	RBFXU5JCJUR6N	0765301377	307803217	Scatterbrain	Books	5	13	15	N	N	An Aggragate of the Author's Writings	Scatterbrain is the third general collection of the author's works, much like [[ASIN:0765318245 N-Space]] and [[ASIN:0812516958 Playgrounds of the Mind]]. It contains 26 works of various kinds, all previously published except for the Introduction and the Epilogue.<br /><br />The Introduction is an interesting discussion of how the author comes up with his crazy ideas. It seems that he is \\"scatterbrained\\", notions just pop up in his mind and stick to each other. More than that, he has a tendency to daydream almost anywhere as these ideas pop up and breed.<br /><br />This volume contains excerpts and other material from four recent novels: Destiny's Road, The Ringworld Throne, The Burning City and Saturn's Race. It also contains previously uncollected tales about Gil Hamilton and Beowulf Shaeffer, a recent Draco Tavern story, a couple of articles about the Man-Kzin Wars series, assorted other non-fiction, and two other stories.<br /><br />Loki is a tale about a space probe on an alien world that gets to talking with the natives. Ice and Mirrors describes an ecological survey of an ice world for a group of aliens.<br /><br />The Epilogue is also about the way the author thinks. As he summed up his talk to a convention of librarians: \\"If there is only one thing you could teach a child, it ought to be this: play with his mind\\". He further elaborated: \\"To make his own homework\\".<br /><br />Highly recommended for Niven fans and for anyone else who enjoys reading about the author as well as samples of his works.<br /><br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2003-12-16
863217:US	49390985	R2POT5LZ7WTAIG	0743471695	944825887	The Helverti Invasion	Books	5	10	12	N	N	An Intrusion of Alien Troublemakers	The Helverti Invasion is the second novel in the Monitor Service series, following The Lizard War.  In the previous volume, Brothers from the Order of Saint Higuchi and their allies infiltrated the Saint Lawrence People's Democratic Republic in order to attack a group of sado-hedonist offworld aliens, the Lizards, who had been manipulating the local government and encouraging them to invade the neighboring states.  In the PDR town of Erfurt, Jamilla Smith was captured and later killed by the Lizards.  Luis Raoul DenUyl managed to access the alien spaceship, killed the captain and other crewmembers, wrecked many controls, and disabled the force shield.  Meanwhile, Lemmi Tsinnajinni penetrated the PDR headquarters and killed the Chairman.  In the ensuing confusion, Tahmm led the other infiltrators into the ship and killed or captured all the other Lizards.    In this novel, five years later, Luis and Lemmi have completed their training as masters and are ready to lead their own missions.  They, two other masters and Tahmm are flown to the brother house at Moleen in a Monitor Service airship, where they are briefed by Masters Fedor and Freddy as well as Bishop Foley.  They learn that a group of alien Fohanni chaos cultists has made illegal contact with the principal chief of the Dkota tribe and is probably fomenting a war with the Kingdom of Sota.  Three years past, the Dkota and Sota had signed a peace treaty and the king of Sota is a molly who refuses to listen to any mention of the Dkota breaking the treaty.  Lemmi is charged with surveying the Dkota situation and Luis is ordered to check the readiness of the Sota Kingdom.    The next day Luis and Lemmi meet their team and prepare for departure.  They are pleased that Paddy Glynn, now a Brother himself, will be part of their team and are suprised as well as pleased to discover that Kabibi Christian, Jamilla's sister, has been admitted to the order and will be going with them.  Masters Carlos del Passo and Ho Peng will also accompany them to the new brother house to act as their support element.  They all leave the next morning for Hasty, the capital of Sota.    Meanwile, Jorval, the leader of the Fohanni cultists, learns that all is going well with the invasion plans, but Mazeppa Tall Man has made changes in  the plans.  After his son Ench embarrasses him in front of Mazeppa, Jorval leaves the boy with the Dkota to learn their ways.    This story involves an effort to avoid war or, if such is inevitable, to force the invaders to lose an unacceptable number of warriors and force a rout.  The situation is complicated by a dream that Mazeppa had on his vision quest that told him that he was destined to rule the whole region.  Jorval has fanned the flames by telling him that the Sota kingdom is planning to kill all the buffalo.  And King Eldred is weakening Sota by dismantling the militia and reducing the number of guards allowed in each duchy and barony.    The story is an good example of the author's ability to portray combat as an expression of human potential.  He describes the conflicts herein in terms of the Warrior muse, a perspective much like the Way of War in the Fight mindset of the Matrix of T'Sel (see [[ASIN:0671656260 The Regiment]]).  Such viewpoints echo the Zen approach to martial arts as a lifestyle, but take on further significance within the Holy Roman Catholic tradition.    Highly recommended for Dalmas fans and for anyone who enjoys tales of martial arts and of pre-industrial societies coping with intrusions by powerful and cunning aliens.	2003-12-16
863641:US	49390985	RUOP3NIGYE113	0671698516	879887792	The Lizard War	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Mission Against an Alien Intrusion	The Lizard War is the first novel in the Monitor Service series.  It concerns an intrusion of a group of sado-hedonist offworld aliens, the Lizards, into an alternative history of the Earth.  World War III occurred in 1983 and billions of people died in the holocaust of nuclear and biological weapons, of starvation from the subsequent famine, and from the fighting between survivors over the remaining resources.  Then came the event called the Shuffling or Forgetting, wherein the Earth was restored to a pristine condition, but the surviving people were scattered throughout the planet with blurred memories as individuals or small groups not much larger than the population of villages.    The resulting society had few atheists, for everybody felt the hand of some god in the Shuffling.  One of changes involved the relocating of the Pope to New Orleans, later renamed New Rome.  Other changes occurred within the Church, including a renewed emphasis on loving God and his fellow men, leading to the formation of an Order of Saint Higuchi charged with keeping the peace among all men.  The Higuchian masters and brothers were trained in the martial arts, covert investigation techniques, and military strategy and tactics.    In this novel, generations later, Luis Raoul DenUyl, of mixed Spanish and Flemish ancestry, is a Higuchian brother on a mission.  He is traveling alone, with very little in the way of a briefing.  In Galway Town in Connemara, Luis meets Jamila Smith and Paddy Glynn and joins forces with them after a fight with local soldiers.  Later, Luis learns that Jamila is a member of the Order of Saint Higuchi, having been admitted as an experiment after she was raised as an orphan by the brothers and then demonstrated extraordinary talents.    The threesome find themselves being hunted by Lizards, but turn the tables and ambush one of the aliens and take his energy gun.  After a night raid on their camp by Lizard dupes, Luis evades the attackers, but looses contact with Jamila and Paddy.  Moreover, he is injured in the attack and the wound becomes infected.  He is found unconscious with a high fever by Tom, who nurses him back to health and accompanies him toward his destination.  Tom knows that Luis is a Higuchian brother, but Luis slowly learns that Tom is something entirely different.    Along the way, Tom and Luis meet Lemmi Tsinnajinni, another Higuchian brother of Navajo ancestry, but travel on separately.  In North Allegheny, they find Paddy and Jamila in the army of the local Duke.  Traveling on together through York, the Commonwealth of the Lakes and Adirondack, they finally arrive at the rendezvous with other brothers assigned to the mission and their Buddhist monk allies.     In this story, the Monitor Service is a branch of the Cultural Oversight Bureau, which is an agency of the Commonwealth of Homid Worlds.  The Monitor Service is covertly protecting the Earth as a primitive world in the galactic community.  Since the Lizards are inciting the Saint Lawrence People's Democratic Republic to attack its neighbors, the Monitor Service is determined to remove these intruders.  The Order of Saint Higuchi and other local forces are cooperating with the Monitor Service in this task.  The mission of the Higuchian brothers and the Buddhist monks is to infiltrate into the PDR and attack the Lizard ship outside the capital at Eisenbach.    This story has a fascinating mixture of cultures, languages and governments within the Northeastern region of the former United States.  The first part of the book is a travelogue under fire, with Luis and various companions trying to avoid their pursuers while dealing with the locals, some of which are Lizard worshippers.  While Luis knows about the Lizards, he learns a good deal more from Tom, the local head of the Monitor Service, during their travels.    This story presents an interesting theology of redemption by the survivors of the Apocalypse.  The changes inspire the Church to active opposition of evil in the world, rather than to passively urge its congregants to eschew evil and do good works.  Hence, the Order of Saint Higuchi actively seeks out evil and destroys it, on the assumption that the evildoers have already had their opportunity to repent their ways.  In many respects, it is a reversion to an earlier Church, but with the emphasis on individuals rather than nation states.  However, it is not a matter of kill them all and let God straighten things out, for the Order is charged with protecting the innocents from the evil acts of wrongdoers.    Highly recommended for Dalmas fans and for anyone else who enjoys martial arts and covert missions against a group of alien malefactors.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-12-16
871251:US	49390985	R1AB2X7SGFBLH5	0689303211	518473356	Gates to Tomorrow: An Introduction to Science Fiction	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Good Tales of Science Fiction	Gates to Tomorrow is a SF anthology intended for young adult readers.  Initiated at the suggestion of a school teacher, these stories were collected as an introduction to science fiction in secondary education classrooms.  The volume contains twelve stories with a range of speculative topics.    Shape by Robert Sheckley is a story of shapeshifting aliens invading the Earth.  Rust by Joseph E. Kelleam is tale about a world populated by robots who are slowly breaking down.  Command by Bernard I. Kahn is the account of a spaceship captain on his first long voyage.  The Naming of Names by Ray Bradbury tells of a family from Earth who have migrated to Mars and miss their old home.  The Plague by Keith Laumer depicts an invasion of parasites on an extraterristrial planet.  A Pail of Air by Fritz Leiber recounts an unusual day in the city long after a dark star has snatched the Earth away from the Sun.    Living Fossil by L. Sprague de Camp describes an encounter by an intellligent species of the future with a lifeform long thought to be extinct.  The Flame Midget by Frank Belknap Long, Jr., recounts the discovery of a microscopic alien man.  Expedition Polychrome by J. A. Winter, M.D., reports the consternation of a medical expedition to the planet Minotaur when one of the crew members turns blue.  Untouched by Human Hands by Robert Sheckley relates the fate of two emaciated explorers faced with a warehouse of potential food labelled in an alien language.  Ultimatum by Keith Laumer discloses the gallant actions of the Corps Diplomatique Terrestienne after receipt of an ultimatum from aliens who appear out of nowhere on an unoccupied planet.  The Sheriff of Canyon Gulch by Poul Anderson and Gordon Dickson reveals the plight of a young Terran officer stranded on a planet of playful aliens who look like teddy bears.    This collection is a fairly representive sample of SF short stories of the mid-twentieth century.  Most of the authors were well-known then and several produced novels of enduring fame.    Highly recommended for young adults and anyone else who enjoys older SF stories.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-12-09
872640:US	49390985	R2IBZT4Y3ERR63	0743471547	68615930	The Course Of Empire	Books	5	27	29	N	Y	After the Invasion	The Course of Empire (2003) is a SF novel about a Terra conquered by an alien empire. This conquest was the most difficult in the entire history of the Joa people; even after twenty years of occupation, the Terrans have not yet been assimilated. Resistance groups still operate in the mountainous regions and riots still occur in the more heavily populated areas. Many of the troops that should have been reassigned after the conquest have been retained to suppress the resistance.    After the conquest, the Narvo kochan was given the oudh to govern Terra and that clan selected Oppuk krinnu ava Narvo to serve as Governor of the planet. The governor and his staff have a low opinion of the humans and this disdain extended down to the lowest levels of the Jao military. Indeed, most Jao consider the humans to only be clever animals, whose behavior is insane and whose mentality is incapable of understanding Jao ways.    In this novel, Aile krinna ava Pluthrak arrives on Terra to assume his duties as Subcommandant for Ground Forces, accompanied only by his fraghta, Yaut krinnu Jithra vau Pluthrak. His presence causes a great deal of consternation, since the Pluthrak kochan may be the most prestigious clan of the Jao, with the possible exception of their Narvo rivals.     Aile becomes even more notable when he starts adding Terrans as well as Jao to his personal service. The first to be added is PFC Gabe Tully, a jinau trooper in the ground forces. Later Aile adds Willard Beck, a human technician, and then Nath krinnu Tashnat vau Nimmat, a Jao supervisor at the Pascagoula refit facility. When Yaut is sent to Jao country to gather information, he adds Tamt krinnu Kannu vau Hij, a Jao guard, to Aile's personal service when she acts rudely to him; she obviously needs the training and she seems to have potential. Later Aile adds combat veterans from both the Terran and Jao forces to his personal service.    The Governor holds a reception for Aile in the gubernatorial palace in Oklahoma City. There Oppuk taunts Aile, trying to goad him into a misstep, but Aile successfully deflects each challenge. Afterward, Caitlan Stockwell comments upon the interplay to Aile and he talks to her for a while before abruptly shedding his clothes and diving into the swimming pool. Later Aile learns Caitlan's name and identity as the only remaining child of the human appointed as President of North America. Caitlan then introduces Ed Kralik, a Major General commanding the Pacific Division of the jinau forces, to Aile (which is a blatant flaunting of Jao manners, but Aile is getting used to the human version of social customs).    This reception and the information subsequently provided by Jao combat veterans leads Aile to conclude that the Governor has become demented in his hatred of the humans. Aile begins to maneuver against the Governor in a type of traditional formal conflict called \\"advance-by-oscillation\\". This approach is a form of psychological operation similar to Dickson's [[ASIN:0441799728 Tactics of Mistake]], which was derived partially from a fencing tactic of rapid engages and disengages that gradually draw the other blade out of line until the opponent is essentially unguarded. Aile starts to refute the official opinion regarding the humans in various ways, driving the Governor to wilder and wilder reactions, and then countering this erratic behavior by exposing his misjudgment. This tactic should eventually alienate the Governor from his allies, including his own kochan.    This story was inspired by a story from Christopher Anvil, possibly in the series collected as [[ASIN:0671318616 Pandora's Legions]]. However, Anvil wrote many other stories about the Earth being invaded by hapless aliens; the earliest to my knowledge is The Gentle Earth (1957), which contains many of the elements of the Pandora series.    However, the Jao have an entirely different concept of social obligations and relationships than the aliens in the Pandora series. The Jao have a social organization somewhat like the [[ASIN:0671577883 Hrinn]], but without the separation of male and female. Their concept of usefulness as the primary social ethic is close in some ways to the Japanese concept of bushido.    This story basically takes off where Anvil's stories usually end, with the invaders realizing that they have caught hold of the tar baby or, to phrase it another way, they have a tiger by the tail. These invaders are basically good-hearted (but ruthless) defenders of all galactic life from the ravaging and incomprehensible Ekhat. However, the Jao have never encountered another sapient species with equal or better technology and have made a number of errors in their first contact and their subsequent treatment of the natives. Now they need to remedy their initial mistakes and convince the unruly natives to \\"associate\\" with their conquerors as do dependent sapients on other conquered planets.    This tale is mostly written from the point-of-view of the alien Jao, even when the principal character is Caitlan, for she is more than half Jao herself. Aile begins his task by listening to the natives and to Jao who have extensive experience with the natives. Both he and Yaut spend at least one rest period a day absorbing the language imprinting program, but find more puzzles than answers therein. Thus, he spends a good part of every day confusedly trying to understand the human mindset. Then he learns that the mindset of the human female is not quite the same as that of the male.    Highly recommended for Flint, Wentworth, and Anvil fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of aliens being hoisted by their own petard and of belated attempts to establish positive relations.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-12-08
874729:US	49390985	R3U55LFM872XU1	0765305402	312044924	Hades' Daughter: Book One of The Troy Game	Books	5	8	10	N	N	The Fury of a Woman Scorned	Hades' Daughter is the first novel in the Troy Game series.  Millennia ago, during the late Bronze Age, the king of Athens was forced to send seven youths and seven maidens to Crete every nine years.  There they were left in the dark maze of the Labyrinth to become victims of Asterion, the Minotaur son of the Minoan king.  One year, the Athenian king sent Theseus, his own son, to Crete among the sacrificial levy.  Theseus gained the love of the Minoan king's daughter, Ariadne, slayed Asterion and escaped with the other captives, Ariadne, and her younger sister Phaedra.<br />Now Ariadne was pregnant with a daughter by Theseus and he had become infatuated with Phaedra.  So Theseus abandoned Ariadne and his unborn daughter on the island of Naxos, saying that it would be too dangerous for her to sail on and that he would return from Athens after the child was born to take them to his home.  When Ariadne objected, Theseus claimed that he was only doing the will of the gods and sailed off with his his paramour to Athens.  In her anger, Ariadne plotted vengeance against the entire Aegean world, gods as well as men, and used her powers as Mistress of the Labyrinth to initiate the destruction of all the labyrinths except one.  Since these labyrinths had been used to magically trap all manner of evil influences to protect their cities, corruption and destruction soon began to spread throughout the Aegean.<br />After launching her curse, Ariadne sailed away from Naxos to the far distant island of Albion.  In the following years, disaster after catastrophe destroyed cities and crops and lives throughout the Aegean as the labyrinths failed.  Finally, the Aegean world was wracked by the ten year Trojan War, spreading Trojan refugees throughout the known world.<br />In this novel, 98 years after the fall of Troy, the Trojan Kingman Brutus, son of Silvius and heir of Aeneas, is visited by the seeming of the goddess Artemis and told that he is destined to build Troia Nova on the island of Albion.  First, however, he must complete a task to prove his worthiness.<br />Cornelia is a fifteen year old dreamer who has decided on a certain youth as her future husband.  When this youth is slain by Brutus and then Brutus takes her in marriage by force of arms, Cornelia screams her hatred and starts to plot against the Trojans.  When that plot and other efforts to oppose Brutus fail disastrously, Cornelia blames herself for the lost lives and her spirit is broken.  <br />In this story, the Trojans sail to Llangarlia on Albion as victims of a great scheme by the great-great-granddaughter of Ariadne to reconstruct the Game (or labyrinth) of Troy upon the Veiled Hills above the banks of the River Llan.  She is the only surviving Mistress of the labyrinth and Brutus is the only surviving Kingman.  Together the two can rebuild the Trojan Game and Brutus will sacrifice almost anything to gain that power.  Strangely, however, he can't quite sacrifice Cornelia.<br />This story is rich in ancient Greek and British allusions and nuances.  The many details of ordinary life in those societies make the tale convincing and immediate.  One finds oneself vicariously living among these characters and participating in their lives.<br />The story nicely weaves the myth of the Minotaur with other Greek and British myths.  The author tells us why and how the Aegean world self-destructed.  Moreover, she tells you the real story of the city of Llanbank on Albion.  Just when you thought you knew the truth, this novel comes along to confuse you once more.<br />The story does include some rather explicit sex and sexual cravings.  Moreover, the relationship between Brutus and Cornelia has more than a hint of sado-masochism, but may be fairly typical of those brutish times. This relationship is nicely contrasted with such bonds within the matriarchial Llangarlian society.<br />This novel does move somewhat slowly at first.  One is almost tempted to look ahead to see how it will come out.  Moreover, the author has interspersed scenes from pre-war London prior to the Blitz to further tantalize the reader.  Just when the story is beginning to really move, however, it terminates;  although it will be continued in God's Concubine, one hates to wait.  <br />Recommended for Douglass fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of ancient societies and magic.	2003-12-06
875525:US	49390985	RW8XBOLCXGQVQ	0553206729	656106125	Darkworld Detective	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Offworld Private Eye, With a Twist	Darkworld Detective is a fantasy detective novel.  Kamus of Kadizar is the one and only private eye on Ja-Lur, the Darkworld, where science and sorcery uneasily co-exist.  A half-breed Darkworlder, he has visited Earth through a limited cultural exchange program, where he discovered the vocation of private investigator and determined to bring these functions back to the Darkworld.<br />The Darkworld is a planet that is partially overlapped by the Darkness, an adjacent universe where magic can be effected by rituals.  Those having the Blood of the Darklands can manipulate such magic by word and potions.  The Darklord has the strongest magic, but his son Jann-Togah is also very powerful.  Kamus has some magical abilities, but they are relatively weak.<br />Darkworld has one spaceport near the city of Mariyad.  The Terrans would like to build more, but the Darklord is content with the single existing spaceport.  The Terrans keep encountering bad luck -- quakes, plagues, spontaneous human combustion, etc. -- whenever they try to construct another.  The Darklord also enforces his Mandate that Terran science/technology is not allowed to function outside the limits of the port nor are manifestations of Darkness allowed within the port itself.<br />A thousand years prior to this novel, the Darklord attempted to conquer all of Darkworld, but was foiled, primarily by Mondrogan the Clever, a Terran/Darklander half-breed.  Thereafter, the Darklord has been restricted to Ja-Agur, but his influence is felt everywhere on Ja-Lur.<br />This novel is actually an accounting of four different, yet related, cases during a time of magical disruption prior to Shadownight.  All indications are that the Darklord will once again attempt to conquer the whole planet.  Forces are gathering and the powers to be, both local and interplanetary, are growing nervous.<br />In The Big Spell, Kamus acquires a client, a Darklander slave, who immediately tests his abilities by summoning a Darkling, a denizen of the Darkness.  After Kamus defeats the creature, his client Valina asks him to find Kaan Ta'wyys of Thanare, an offworlder who had recently come to Ja-Lur with another Unity agent, Daniel Talon of Earth.  These agents were searching for Edward Knight, another Terran but of the Blood.  Knight had been onworld for seven years and had grown powerful in Darkness magic.<br />Kamus reluctantly agrees to do some work for Valina.  As he is checking his sources, Kamus learns that some barbarian is looking for him and eventually discovers that the barbarian is working with Daniel Talon and they want Kamus to find Valina.  Then things get really confusing.<br />In The Maltese Vulcan, Kamus is hired to protect a local deity from another solar system who has been threatened with assassination.  He is also reluctant to take this case, but his client is poisoned while talking to him and then he meets a nice girl connected with the case and then her suitor is murdered, so what else can he do but catch the assassin and solve the murder.<br />In Murder on the Galactic Express, Kamus is hired to guide an android and an Osteomech, a former human converted to a skeletal being made of bone, brainbox and fields, to a wrecked spaceship in the mountains.  According to the android, he has rescued the Osteomech from a death-worshipping cult known as the Order of the Osteomechs, who are now hunting for them with murderous intent.  Kamus is reluctant to take the case, for he has other things to do, but the android, Orpheus, offers to show him where the Black Mask, a powerful magical token, is hidden near the wreck.  On their way through the mountains, Kamus encounters Valina fleeing from a vigilante mob.<br />In The Man with the Golden Raygun, Kamus is trying to reach the Darklord to prevent his conquest of the planet and is offered a ride by an offworlder in an aircar.  Since Kamus is short of time, he accepts and flies off with Valina and Polaris Lone, the offworlder.  They make goodtime until the Darklord's Mandate, which had been ineffective for a while, suddenly flares up again and the aircar technology ceases to function.  Suddenly they have to use the aircar as a boat.<br />This novel is written in a style somewhat like the American detective story tradition, but Kamus is definitely not one of the violent killer types.  He uses his sword to protect himself from assaults and his magical abilities to disable his attackers, but never intentionally harms nor threatens anyone.  He gathers information and solves puzzles, usually in full view (but some clues are only suggested during the action).  While these mysteries could possibly be solved by an alert reader, the endings always lead off into unexpected directions.<br />Highly recommended for Reaves fans and for anyone else who enjoys magical detective stories with unexpected endings.	2003-12-05
880487:US	49390985	R2XYTO88G82OGH	0441010911	609140905	For More Than Glory	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Duty and Honor Among the Peasants	For More Than Glory (2003) is the fifth novel in the Legion series, following [[ASIN:044100735X By Force of Arms]].  The initial work in this sequrnce is [[ASIN:0441480403 Legion of the Damned]].  In the previous volume, during the retaking of the Clone World BETA-018, Legion First Lieutenant Antonio Santana commanded the anvil forces in a battle and his commander, the Ramanthian Hakk Batth, led the hammer forces. When the attack drove out Thraki females and cubs from the defensive positions, Santana is ordered to fire upon them, but refused and was relieved of command. The subsequent court of inquiry reprimanded Hakk Batth for poor judgement and demoted Santana for disobeying orders.  In the vicinity of Arbulla, the Confederacy infiltrated the Sheen fleet and disabled the Hoon. When the Thraki admiral refused to believe that the Sheen had been neutralized and attempted to launch \\"the twins\\", the Confederacy vaporized the ship carrying these weapons. Although the Thraki attacked the Sheen anyway, they encountered no resistance and finally accepted the situation after destroying some of the Sheen warships.  The Battle of Arballa, as the press called it, was followed by extensive negotiations that eventually included the Thraki as members of the Confederacy. The Hudathans had proved themselves as allies in battle, so their home world was opened to commerce with the Confederacy; individual Hudathans had taken a liking to the Legion and remained in service. The Clone Hegemony, however, had withdrawn all its soldiers from the Legion.  In this novel, Legion renegades from the mutiny have formed the Syndicate and are raiding commerce among the Rim Worlds. General Booly leads a raid on Syndicate Base 012 in search for the cruisers Ibutho and Guerrero. After fighting their way in, they discover that the warships had departed only a few hours before their attack.  On the planet Hive, the Ramanthian Senator Alway Orno returns to report to the Queen that he has negotiated successfully for the additional planets needed for the tricentennial hatching, but that he was unable to obtain the ships required to transport the five billion hatchlings to their new homes. When queried as to how such transportation would be provided, Orno stated that they would steal it.  On the planet Hudatha, Hasa-ba is installed as the third member of the Triad and accepts the acclaim of the populace. Unknown to the other Triad members, Hasa-ba is plotting with Orno to steal warships from the mothballed Sheen fleet.   On the planet LaNor, Legion Second Lieutenant Antonio Santana arrives on the tramp freighter Rim Queen. First he reports in to Captain Seeba-Ka, the Hudathan second-in-command, at the Legion barracks in the Foreign Legation compound adjacent to the Imperial City of Mys. Captain Seeba-Ka is fully aware of Santana's prior record and performs an attitude adjustment prior to covering his future duties. Then he informs Santana that his former superior, Hakk Batth, is commander of the Ramanthian detachment in the Foreign Legation.  This novel interweaves the four major plots noted above and numerous minor ones. The main story, however, is the most inconsequential in terms of galactic history. Based on the Boxer Rebellion, it involves a large scale rebellion against a corrupt, yet locally powerful empire ruled by a Dowager Empress. One of the tenets of this rebellion was the pollution of the local religion by foreign ideas and this leads to the slaughter of foreign missionaries and their local converts. The Foreign Legation comes under siege by both the rebels and the imperial troops.  The Boxer Rebellion is one of many smaller conflicts in American and European history. The rebels were numerous but usually poorly armed and trained. The imperials were also numerous and better trained than the rebels, but were not as determined and were not as well armed as the Westerners. The fighting was fierce and bloody, with heavy casualties among the rebels and imperials. The final outcome changed China forever.  This story is a striking portrayal of ordinary people in a crisis that demands more from them than they have ever given before. Even the veteran soldiers are staggered by the situation, despite their familiarity with war and bloody death. The garrison troops soon become veterans or casualties. The civilians quickly learn to strip away the nonessentials of life and to think like soldiers.  Highly recommended for Dietz fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of daring and courage in a SF setting.  -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-12-02
880715:US	49390985	R39OBSLDDX9CHY	0553583654	698097450	The Shores of Tomorrow (The Chronicles of Solace, Bk. 3)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The Politics of Desperation	The Shores of Tomorrow is the third novel in the Chronicles of Solace series, following The Ocean of Years.  In the previous novel, the Dom Pedro IV's crew have followed clues left by Oskar DeSilvo to Glister.  There they fly the Cruzeiro do Sul down into a launch dome within a huge bullseye designed to attract their attention and find DeSilvo awaiting their arrival.<br />In the complex on Glister, DeSilvo explains his actions and shows the simulations that he has developed to test the contraction theories of Ulan Baskaw.  He is mortified that the information discovered by Admiral Koffield seems to be confirmed by these simulations and subsequent events.  He has realized that he needs external verification of his thinking and thus has lured them there.  At this point, Yuri Sparten attacks DeSilvo and both are injured.<br />In this novel, Koffield and the crew of the Dom Pedro IV have verified DeSilvo's simulations using their own data.  Now they are waiting for DeSilvo to explain his scheme for avoiding the contraction, but first he is waiting for his FTL data taps to relay the results of the Ignition of the NovaSpot over Greenhouse in the Lodestar system.  Back in that system, Planetary Executive Neshobe Kalzant of Solace is also waiting for these results, watching the countdown to Ignition from the control room in the Lodestar VII.<br />On Mars, Kalani Temblar of the Chronologic Patrol is surveying the damage done to the Dark Museum, following the footsteps of Oskar DeSilvo and Admiral Koffield.  When she is through recording the evidence, she wires explosives to the armored door of the tunnel and sets the timer.  Then she returns to her lander and, despite the damage done by the omnipresent mold, takes off for orbit.  In Mariner City, the explosives detonate, causing sympathetic detonation of the booby-trap demolition charges, resulting in the collapse of the entire length of DeSilvo's tunnel into the Dark Museum.<br />In this story, the rationale behind DeSilvo's later behavior becomes exceedingly and frighteningly clear.  Koffield and his associates agree to help DeSilvo, but first Sparten has to sneak off to check out a diehard settlement about 700 kilometers to the south.  During his flyby, the aircar comes under fire from the diehards.  <br />The importance of the NovaSpot to make Greenhouse a waystation for the evacuation of Solace becomes clear to Elber Malloon and he becomes a player in system politics, first as an agent of Captain Sotales of the SCO Station Security Force and later as a liaison between the lowdowners and the uppers.  His actions facilitate the evacuation of the lowdowners to Greenhouse, which in turn relieves pressures on Solace planetary resources and also provides essential manpower for DeSilvo's new plan.<br />Meanwhile, the Chronologic Patrol has learned the basics of DeSilvo's activities in the Solar System and has correctly interpreted the clues left for Koffield.  Lieutenant Command Burl Chambers and Lieutenant Temblar are dispatched in a heavily armed and sensored CP intelligence ship to Glister to track down both DeSilvo and Koffield.<br />This is the final volume of the series.  It interjects additional technology from the Dark Museum that expands upon the various fields and drives previously mentioned.  It proposes another method of terraforming without the imbalances of the previously failed methods and suggests yet another approach.  Furthermore, it introduces another model of timetravel within a multiverse of complex diverging and converging timelines.<br />Highly recommended for Allen fans and for anyone else who enjoys high tech suspense stories with political intrigue and interesting characters.	2003-12-02
885020:US	49390985	R2NKXG3NV2WXXA	0671878654	84595245	An Oblique Approach (Belisarius)	Books	5	18	20	N	N	A Divergence in Time	A Divergence in Time    An Oblique Approach (1998) is the first novel in the Belisarius series. Byzantium was the Empire of Rome in the East, ruled at this time by Emperor Justinian. A former Thracian peasant, Justinian had selected a minor Thracian noble, Belisarius, to be his bodyguard and then later to head the army facing their Medean foe. While Belisarius was not the Emperor's friend (for Justinian had no friends), they respected each other and Belisarius' wife Antonia was a close friend of the Empress Theodora.    When Belisarius was traveling to assume command the army at Daras, the monk Michael of Macedonia and Anthony Cassian, the local bishop, came to his new house in Aleppo, bringing a strange object found by Michael within his cave in the desert. A faceted crystal that seemed to form and reform, they said that it had brought visions to their minds when they held it and they urged Belisarius to take it into his own hands. When it was passed to him, the crystal flared into light and flooded his mind with visions.     The crystal could induce visions and feelings, but was mostly unable to communicate directly. The visions showed a future in which the Malwa empire of northern India conquered all the known world and induced feelings of dread and despair. But all who held the crystal also felt certain that the future shown and felt was not necessarily the only possible future. The crystal had come to enlist Belisarius himself in an effort to preclude this bitter future in favor of one more consistent with their own desires and inclinations.    While the exhausted crystal quietly regained its strength, the human party formed a conspiracy to counter the evil plans of the Malwa. Deciding to keep the secret among themselves for a time, they arranged for a location to build a secret arsenal and weapons project on property controlled by Anthony. They also agreed that Anthony would arrange for the services of John of Rhodes, a clever ex-naval officer, as the head ofthe project.    Belisarius had to leave the conspiracy in the others' hands while he assumed command of the army in Daras. The prior commander, Libelarius, had left his army understrength and riddled with corruption, so weeding out the rot was Belisarius' first task. Then he had to rebuild his command structure and replace those struck from the roles.    Belsarius was charged with building a fort near the border as a deliberate provocation of the Persians, but Belisarius needed to conclude the campaign quickly in order to get back to the conspiracy. Once the fort was finished, he arranged for the Army of Lebanon under its two generals, Bouzes and Coutzes, to join with him against the Persians. Then he baited Bouzes and Coutzes with news of a Persian army pay chest and sent the Persian commander a nasty note. Thereafter, he waited for the afternoon wind to blow from the west.    This story depicts an intervention from the future followed by a counter-intervention from the same era. The intervention itself is not described in this volume, but the crystal represents the counterforce. The first portion of the story consists mainly of clearing the decks to allow the conspirators to investigate the real enemy, which could only be done in India by Belisarius himself.    Belisarius does have one large advantage in that his bucellarii, his personal guard, are past masters of covert operations. He doesn't have to hire or acquire specialists, but only has to say who will be left behind. He gains another asset in Irene Macrembolitissa, spymaster for his friend, and fellow general, Sittas.    A reviewer complains that this is a rehash of the General series, but does not seem to understand that that series was loosely based on the historical actions of the real live Belisarius. Another reviewer frets that Belisarius is too perfect, yet fails to note the respect given to the actual general by military historians. Belisarius was only a man, but clearly an unusual man in many respects and nothing in this novel up to the initial visit by Michael and Anthony is inconsistent with known historical facts.    Still another reviewer accused the authors of poor characterization, citing the similar sense of humor among all the military personnel. Interesting enough, that observation is not new, having been made by many others down through the centuries. Professional military men (and women, for that matter) have an ironical and sometimes morbid sense of humor, maybe due to their close association with death and dying. Drake has first-hand knowledge of that sense of humor!    This story sets the stage for the series and tells of the initial efforts of the conspirators. It contains enough battles, raids, and assorted mayhem for any two other books. And it is just getting started.    Highly recommended for Drake & Flint fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of alternate wars and political intrigue.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-11-28
887316:US	49390985	R2F9ZA9ZPR0F3O	0808522280	8627718	Dragon's Blood (Pit Dragon Trilogy)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Dragon of His Own	Dragon's Blood is the first novel in the Pit Dragon trilogy.  Austar IV has been used as a dumping ground for convicts in the past.  It is a metal-poor desert planet with only one notable feature: its dragons.  These warm-blooded flying animals are raised for their meat and leather, but are also the star attraction of the many gambling arenas, or pits, that form the major industry on the planet.    In this novel, Jakkin is a bond boy who is determined to steal himself a dragon and train it into a champion, the traditional way to become a master.   His father had been a trainer before being killed by a feral dragon, but Jakkin knows nothing more of such techniques than is common knowledge.  He has found a small spring in the dunes and planted it with reeds, blisterweed and burnwort for his snatchling.  Then he waits for the eggs to begin hatching.    While he is waiting, the bonder Likkarn finds that Jakkin has left behind a bath brush after bathing Blood Brother and comes after him in anger, beating him with the brush.  All this hostility arouses Blood Brother to a manic state and the dragon rushes out of the stall, walking over both Jakkin and Likkarn.  Likkarn struggles up and uses the extinguisher set on Kill against the dragon.  The master, Sarkkhan, breaks Likkarn to a stall boy for that deed.  When Jakkin fully wakes a week later, the hatching is already over;  nonetheless, he checks the new hatchlings and finds one that has not been counted.  Now he has his snatchling.    For the next year, Jakkin trains his dragon in secret.  He is forced to accept Akki, a bond girl, into the secret, because she has discovered and protected it on her own even before he became aware that she knew.  At first Jakkin is slightly jealous of how well the little dragon accepts Akki, but soon the three become close friends.  It is Akki that arranges a first arena fight for Jakkin's Red.    This story is a tale of a penal colony much like Botany Bay after the second or third generation.  Very few convicts remain, but the colony is no lush agricultural garden spot and life is harsh.  Most of the population are bonders, indentured until they can pay back a bag of gold coins and go free.  Sarkkhan is one of the few who have managed to gain more than freedom and become masters, holding the bonds of others.    This story also relates the close relationship between a dragon and his trainer.  Jakkin can communicate mentally with his Red and receive emotional tones and colors in return.  The reader witnesses the exchange of thought and emotion between the pair, becoming almost a part of the relationship.    The dangers of the planet are vividly revealed when Jakkin helps hunt down a carnivorous drakk female and her brood, eaters of dragon eggs and hatchlings.  Later the male drakk finds Jakkin with his Red and he has to fight the flying hunter with a table knife.  Another time he almost freezes to death in the Dark-After before he can reach shelter.    Highly recommended for Yolen fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of human-animal bondings, exotic cultures, and strangely foreboding planets.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-11-26
889140:US	49390985	RQTP80TZYPPA2	0441010601	193642929	In The King's Service (Kurtz, Katherine)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A Novel of Intrigue and Minor Magic	In the King's Service (2003) is the first novel in the Childe Morgan trilogy of the Deryni series, following [[ASIN:0345332628  The Bastard Prince]].  This is the thirteenth volume in the series, but the seventh volume by internal chronology.  The initial volume in this sequence is [[ASIN:044101660X Deryni Rising]].  It takes place during the reign of Donal Blaine Haldane and fits chronologically after The Bastard Prince and before Deryni Rising.  King Donal has provided his son with a guardian by getting a son on Jessamy, the wife of Sief MacAthan, one of his councilors and a member of the Camberian Council. Sief is also a very impulsive and jealous man and, when he discovers the true parentage, Donal finds himself fighting for his life as Sief unleashes the Deryni mind powers against him, but the Haldane powers prove stronger and Donal is left with the still warm body of Jessamy's husband. Donal blames the death on a heart attack and arranges to have the baby raised in the Royal Nursery.  The Camberian Council discovers most of the truth, but cannot determine the motive for the King siring a child on Jessamy. However, they continue to keep an eye on Jessamy, the daughter of Lewis ap Norfal, who had rebelled against the authority of the Camberian Council itself. Meanwhile, Keryell Earl of Lendor has taken a new wife after the passing of Stevana in childbirth and is leaving his two daughters, Alyce and Marie, with the queen until they are to depart for a convent school. Since Jessamy was especially close to Stevana, she takes the girls under her wing and even accompanies them to the convent. There she introduces the girls to her daughter Jessilde, a novice in the order. The next day, Jessamy leaves and the girls are started on their studies and on making new friends.  This story is a study of character and intrigue. The action is minimal and mostly offstage, although battle, accidents and homicide seem to run rampant through the plot. Of course, an approximately equal number of births balance out the deaths, but the turnover is astonishing, although not unrealistic for medieval times.  Nevertheless, this story is unusual in that no major wars, rebellions, invasions or other large-scale violence occurs during the whole tale. Moreover, the church is only modestly destructive against the Deryni. There is only one significant clash between the King and the Church and it is more personal than otherwise.  Overall, this is an unusual novel, more like the shorter works in its plot and consequences.  It does occur in a significant period in the evolution of the kingdom, however, less than a decade prior to the birth of Kelson Haldane. Moreover, it concludes with the birth of Alaric Morgan.  The next installment in this sequence is [[ASIN:0441015549 Childe Morgan]].  Highly recommended for Kurtz fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of intrigue and minor magic in a medieval setting.  -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-11-24
889841:US	49390985	R2GW6EQJ7K221U	0345447603	459337150	Trading in Danger	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Trial By Happenstance	Trading in Danger (2003) is the first novel in a new Naval SF series. Kylara Vatta is a member of a well respected trading family on Slotter Key. Despite, or maybe because of, her family's efforts to dissuade her, Ky is a senior cadet in the planet's spaceforce academy. She has exchanged rings with Hal, who has been trading the top class position with her since they joined the academy.    Now she has been called to the Superintendent's office and asked to resign because an underclassmen has complained on a public news outlet that the academy is unfairly treating his religious group. Ky had thought that she could trust him, but he deliberately took advantage of her gullibility for his own purposes. Ky had been warned by MacRobert, one of the senior NCOs, but had trusted her own feelings too much to believe him. Moreover, MacRobert seems to have presented some sort of message for her in a ship model kit, but she doesn't bother to figure it out.    A Vatta company car picks up Ky at the Academy front gate while MacRobert has the media reporters lured away to the back. She is driven to the company airfield and then flown back home. There she is fussed over, plied with new clothes, and offered the captaincy of an old ship being flown to the scrapyard on Lastway. She will have a preordered cargo for Belinta and spec cargo for Leonora.    Of course, as a brand, spanking new captain, Ky considers the odds of making a profit on the voyage and then bringing her ship up to standards. When she hears from Belinta Customs that they have an agricultural machinery shipment mislaid by Pavrati Interstellar, Ky immediately starts thinking of ways to fetch the missing shipment for the planetary government. After some concentrated negotiating, she unloads her spec cargo and heads for Sabine, the nearest source of ag machinery. Unfortunately, the FTL drive starts falling apart and then Sabine circumspace becomes a warzone. Later the combatants dump fifty hostages in her ship, albeit under contract and with auxiliary materiel and supplies, but still a strain on the ship and crew.    This story is a form of trial by happenstance, with Ky performing well personally, but having problems with some of the extra people on board. Ky has a reputation for adopting underdogs, but her real problem is that she naively trusts people who appear trustworthy. Her experiences during this voyage, however, seem to have instilled a much needed touch of cynicism in her character.    Although Ky is a merchant captain, her experiences as an officer cadet prove to be very valuable during this voyage. She also gets a opportunity to face down several people who consider her little more than a naive, inexperienced girl. A tough trip, but enlightening.    This is supposed to be the first in a new series. The author is going to have to be exceedingly clever to continue this pace in future volumes, particularly since Ky is only a merchant captain. However, the mercenary company that hired her to house the fifty hostages has actually made an offer of a commission in their unit. Ky might not be a civilian much longer.    Highly recommended for Moon fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of adventure among the spaceways with interesting characters and tense situations.    Arthur W. Jordin	2003-11-24
900242:US	49390985	R13HY5A1FDJT03	0756401550	673543485	The Devil's Armor (Daw Book Collectors)	Books	5	11	17	N	N	When the Armor Makes the Man	The Devil's Armor (2003) is the second novel in the Akari Spirits series, following [[ASIN:0756400961 The Eyes of God]]. In the previous volume, Trager had killed Kahan Kadar of Jador. Later, when Akeela seemed about to free the captured Lukien, Trager also killed Akeela and blamed Lukien.  Then Trager led his army of 1200 men against Grimhold, where Lukien baited him into fighting a duel to the death. After Lukien won, the Liirian army is allowed to leave Grimhold and Jador. Lukien was saved from dying of his wounds by one of the Eyes of God and stayed in Grimhold as its protector.  In this novel, Lukien is a former Royal Charger.  He loves Cassandra.  Thorin Glass is a Baron of Liiria.  He is possessed by the Akari spirit Kahldris.  Gilwyn Toms is the Regent of Jador.  He is possessed by the Akari spirit Ruana.  White-Eye is an Inhuman.  She is possessed by the Akari spirit Faral.  Meriel is an Inhuman.  She had been badly burned on her face as a child.  The Akari spirit Sarlvatian was able to reduce the pain of her burned face.  Lorn is the former King of Norvor.  Now he is at Grimhold.  He has a blind Daughter Poppy.  Jazana Carr is the Queen of Norvor.  She had rebelled against Lorn and had driven him away from the nation for his terrible deeds.  Aztar is the Prince of the Desert of Tears.  The desert is a wide sand piled into dunes by the wind.  In this story, Lukien and his Jadori warriors are greatly overworked in protecting the Seekers who have come for the healing said to be available at Mount Believer, their name for Grimhold. Gilwyn has been chosen by White-eye to be her regent in Jador. Minikin is overwhelmed with pleas of healing for the Seekers and their children, but there are not enough Akari spirits for all who need them.  Aztar has created a principality in the Desert of Tears. He sees the Seekers as defilement of his desert and has his men kill all that they can find. Since Lukien is protecting these Seekers, Aztar puts a high price on his head.Lorn has been betrayed by his subjects and trapped in the castle with his deaf and almost blind daughter Poppy. Nevertheless, he manages to escape with Poppy and flees to Liiria. In Koth, he meets a group of Seekers, learns about Mount Believer, and sees a way to heal Poppy. He leads the group toward Jador, but not without difficulty, especially in Dreel.  Jazana Carr now rules all of Norvor with the fall of Carlion and the flight of Lorn. She is also determined to conquer Liiria and to punish the family of Glass, her former lover and betrayer. She leaves Norvor behind and gathers her troops at the borders of Liiria.  Glass has begun to wonder about the family he has left behind in Liiria. Thoughts of the invincible Devil's Armor are beginning to haunt his mind during the day. Moreover, Kahldris, the spirit within the armor, is starting to speak to him in the night.  This novel expands the story of the extinct Akari people who built Grimhold. The spirits within the Eyes of God are onstage more in this novel and we are introduced to Kahldris, the mighty general of the Akari, who now inhabits the Devil's Armor.  All the Akari spirits, except Kahldris, have repented their hubris and have tried to make amends through helping the Inhumans within Grimhold. Kahldris, however, is still following his own agenda, which bodes ill for any others in his power.  We also learn more about the Inhumans, the deformed, defective and dying persons who now house Akari spirits. Gilwyn has a club foot and hand and is just now learning to communicate with Ruana, his Akari spirit. Meriel has been badly scarred from a fire as a child and is now dissatisfied with her Akari spirit.  White-eye is now the Kahana of Jador, but can't stand full sunlight even with the help of her Akari spirit. Lukien is being kept alive by Amaraz, the spirit in his Eye of God. Yet the Akari will not even talk to him.  Although I have named this series after the Akari spirits who figure so prominently, this name isnot sanctioned by the author. In fact, he has chosen not to provide a name at this time. Thus, my name for this series is merely a label of convenience and signifies nothing of the series itself.  The next installment in this sequence is [[ASIN:075640360X The Sword of Angels]].  Highly recommended for Marco fans and for anyone else who enjoys epic tales of swords and sorcery with good characterization and byzantine complexity.  -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-11-15
906449:US	49390985	R1K9MUYQ77JDWL	0060503580	858054405	Contact Imminent	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	Her Priestly Duties	Contact Imminent (2003) is the fourth novel in the Jani Kilian series, following Law of Survival. In the previous volume, Jani has solved the mystery of Le Blond, the point man for a semi-legitimate trade association and the man trying to smear the reputation of both Jani and Tsecha. Ceel, the Oligarch of the Vynsharau, and his suborn Shai have managed to ease Tsecha out of his positions as ambassador and Propitiator, but Tsecha regains most of his status as Intercessor for the Haarin; moreover, now he doesn't have to attend any more boring meetings, can sit in comfortable chairs and doesn't have to wear boring clothes. Furthermore, he and Jani have forced Shai to allow the Haarin to sell a much needed water filter to the Elyans.    In this novel, a year later, Jani, Niall and Tsecha are observers for a mine removal operation on the grounds of the Haarin enclave at Chicago. Something goes wrong and the mine explodes, killing a Terran bomb disposal tech and an idomeni security suborn and injuring Lieutenant Pullman. Jani is suspicious of the official explanations for this incident; since she is leaving for the Outer Circle on business for Tsecha, she asks Lucien to join the investigation team to uncover the true situation.    Jani travels to Elyas in a Neoclona ship with John Shroud and Niall. There she is kidnapped and transported to a Haarin colony, where she finds hybrids much like herself. Soon she is in the middle of a political conflict in the Haarin community between the established dominant and a hybrid challenger.    Back on Earth, Lucien singles out Faber, a comtech who had been on the bomb site in the bunker with Jani and who has been acting strangely since the incident. Lucien has Faber followed and keeps showing up in the comtech's life. Among other things, he notices that Faber is checking out the specs of the latest model military exoskeleton armor.    This novel is an investigative procedural on Earth and a character study on Elyas, with various sidestories. Although the author tells part of the story from the viewpoint of Faber, she is able to maintain the suspense up until the final climax. You probably will not want to put the book down until the story is done.    In this story, Jani starts taking on some of the responsibilities of Tsecha's suborn. She acts as more that Tsecha's Eyes and Ears on Elyas, stabilizing the hybrid challenge in a very priestly manner and then gathering a cadre to keep the situation under control after she returns to Earth. While the immediate problems are resolved, this story ends with the promise of more excitement to follow.    Highly recommended for Smith fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of suspense and intrigue, with a touch of romance, in a SF setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-11-10
912464:US	49390985	R30J7PKA0WGYQR	0765301768	472724660	The Lair of Bones (The Runelords, Book 4)	Books	5	0	8	N	N	To Heal the Earth	The Lair of Bones (2003) is the fourth novel in the Runelords series, following [[ASIN:0812570707 Wizardborn]]. In the previous volume, Averan learns that she is an Earth wizard and is tutored by Binnesman. Moreover, she gains the capability of reading the Reaver scent and learns a path to the Lair of Bones. She cannot describe it to Gaborn, but can lead him there.    Borenson saves Myrrima's life by immersing her in water and Myrrima learns that she is a Water Wizardess and can go live in the sea with other Water Wizards, but she stays to be with Borenson. Erin, with her husband Celinor, is \\"escorted\\" by troops from King Anders, who now insists that he is the new Earth King. Raj Ahten sends men to destroy the Mystarrian Rune Lord's Dedicates, but the men, women and children in Carris prevail against the Reavers anyway.    In this novel, Raj Ahten returns to his palace in triumph, which is interrupted by \\"advice\\" from his uncle. Ahten silences him by having the crowd cut out his tongue. Wuqaz Faharaquin watches this event with other Ah'Kellah and they determine that Ahten must be taken down.    Gaborn and Averan prepare to enter the Underworld to find and destroy the Seals of destruction. Gaborn also takes Binnesman and his Wylde and Iome forces herself into the company, for she knows Gaborn will not protect himself, so she will be his protection. She starts by telling the facilitators to vector as many Dedicates as possible to him, for she knows that this is essential to complete his mission; yet she keeps this information from Gaborn as long as possible, for he would not elect to do this for himself.    Gaborn, Averan, Binnesman, Iome, and the Wylde start down the wide tunnel, trampled flat by the tens of thousands Reavers who had passed that way not long before. Vines and other vegetation have been shredded, stalactites broken off, and stalagmites crushed underfoot. They find Reaver hunter way stations along the route. Soon they hear the thunder of a new army ofReavers coming toward them.    Borenson and Myrrima travel as Gaborn's emissaries to the powerful Marquis de Ferecia, who had sat out the last invasion, and to the Inkarrans, who have sealed off their land from Mystarria. On the way, they fear that an unknown rider in Inkarran gear is an assassin following them. Before they reached Batenne, where the Marquis' castle is located, they pause to rest and Myrrima proves her love for him is greater than for Water by taking him deeply into a moor pool, making love and bestowing the serenity of water upon him.    Erin is brought before King Anders and soon learns that Celinor has been acting as Anders' spy. She wonders how much Celinor really loves her and she is worried that Anders is possessed by a locus, a dark and immortal spirit. She finally confronts her own dreams and learns that she has a spiritual helper.    This novel is the conclusion to the series. However, it leaves room for subsequent series featuring Averan and other characters in this one. What will the author do next?    Highly recommended for Farland fans and for anyone else who enjoys complex and complicated epic fantasies with a mythic feel and a somewhat different approach.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-11-05
913929:US	49390985	R2XDECCNOO1PZE	0380818345	742890643	Impossible Odds (Chronicle of the King's Blades)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Blades Among the Shadows	Impossible Odds (2003) is the fifth novel in the King's Blades series, following Paragon Lost.  It takes place during the reign of King Athelgar, two years after the events of the previous volume.    In this novel, the king has authorized the binding of one to three Blades to the service of the Grand Duke of Krupina.  The Grandmaster is very reluctant to release the Blades, since he only has three seniors and only two are even remotely suitable.  However, both take the vows and survive the ritual and are now private Blades.  Another trainee, Bellman, has developed a physical ailment which precludes him from becoming a Blade;  at the suggestion of the Grand Master, he resigns from Ironhall and joins the Grand Duke's party temporarily for the journey back to Grandon.    The Ironhall men face a daunting task, for someone has been magically attacking the Grand Duke's party since it fled from Krupina.  The party had even been attacked by shadowmen while residing in Nocare Palace, resulting in the deaths of three Yeoman and two Blades. Moreover, they don't really know why the Grand Duke fled his Duchy.    Bellman and the Blades are also puzzled by a certain strangeness in the Grand Duke.  After reaching Grandon, Bellman is sent to run several errands, including trying to hire Sister Gertrude from the White Sisters, and he also gathers information about the Grand Duke.  When he returns, the Grand Duke asks him for his conclusions and then confirms them:  the Grand Duke is actually Johanna, the Grand Duke's wife.      The Grand Duchess has a rare beauty and a kind temperament.  She has been wearing an enchanted locket chain which lays the Grand Duke's appearance over that of the wearer.  The chain was found near the wrecked coach wherein she almost died, so she doesn't know its history.  She has been wearing it both to receive more respect as a man and to sow confusion among her enemies.    After Bellman's display of wit, the Grand Duchess hires him as an equerry, a carefully ambiguous position.  Moreover, she appoints Ringwood as leader of her two Blades, much to Ranter's chagrin.  Sister Gertrude is added to the party after she resigns from the White Sisters in disgust.    This party is further reduced by a disastrous fire during the night caused by an elemental within a suspicious medicine chest belonging to Baron von Fader.  The fire consumes the Blade guarding the chest as well as the Baron himself.  Moreover, one the Baron's servants is missing and presumed to be the guilty party, especially after the other servant is found unconscious from a blow to his head.    This story takes the Blades, Bellman and the Grand Duchess back to Krupina to recover her son and discover the fate of her husband.  Arrayed against them is powerful sorcery and an army of dedicated warrior-monks.  Moreover, an unknown number of former monks, still bound to the order by their lifelong vows, are working undercover for the order.    The party encounters magic, betrayal, and ancient hazards as they gradually unravel the mystery and gain access to the primary players.  Bellman discovers that his handicap doesn't matter that much to those who don't already know about it.  Ringwood learns how to accept his mistakes and carry on.  Ranter finds that he has a within himself an unexpected selflessness.  Furthermore, both Bellman and Ringwood find the women that they wish to marry.    Highly recommended for Duncan fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of great daring and high intrigue.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-11-04
914338:US	49390985	R39A2U3F952HDN	0756402069	352643847	Exile's Valor (Valdemar)	Books	5	31	35	N	N	A Tale of Prince Charming	Exile's Valor is the second novel in the Exile's subseries, following Exile's Honor.  In the previous volume, the Valdemarans have decisively defeated the Tedrels and Alberich has led a raid to recover captive children from the Tedrel main camp.  King Sendar and his companion have been killed in the engagement and Talamir's companion has also been killed.  After the battle, Selenay is proclaimed as Queen and leads the combined funeral and victory march back to Haven.    In this novel, six months later, Alberich is now highly regarded by most Valdemarans for his exploits during the war against the Tedrel.  As Weaponsmaster, he is finding his students less reluctant and better behaved.  As internal security chief, he is finding less interest in buying intelligence about Valdemar and more in buying intelligence about her neighbors and trading partners.  The economy is picking up and trade is becoming more important than warfare.    However, boys will be boys and a couple of high-spirited and high-energy scamps manage to break one of the wall mirrors in the salle by using a theatrical fighting style.  The boys are sent to work in the glassworks for a while to give them an appreciation of the value of the mirror and Alberich learns where the boys had been observing this flamboyant style of fighting.  Out of curiosity, he attends a performance of the acting troop and happens to notice that papers were passed covertly during the performance.  Alberich quickly determines the name of the actor, but has little luck in identifying the young aristocrat.    Meanwhile, Alberich accidently creates a new sport, Hurlee, that becomes a overnight success.  The various trainees are strong enamored with the new sport, either as players or spectator.  At least, the threat of being barred from participation is a potent goad toward better behavior and scholarship.    Selenay is having problems with her council.  They are pressing her to marry and she is not ready yet.  Besides, none of thecandidates presented by the council are suitable, much less desireable.  Then the Rethwellan ambassador introduces her to Prince Karathanelan.    This story shows the continued assimilation of Alberich into the Heralds and Valdemar itself.  He has gained respect and power as Weaponsmaster and war hero.  He has two jobs that are both significant and satifying.  And he has found love with Myste, the Herald Chronicler.    Highly recommended for Lackey fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of court intrigue and adventure in a fantasy setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-11-04
917387:US	49390985	R1ASTW8DTQ8OZ8	0441011136	946983828	Agents of Light and Darkness (Nightside, Book 2)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Another Dark Time in the Nightside	Agents of Light and Darkness (2003) is the second fantasy novel in the Nightside series, following [[ASIN:0441010652 Something From the Nightside]]. In the previous volume, John Taylor was hired to find something and instead found more than he bargained for, yet banished it from Nightside back into the void.    In this novel, Taylor starts off sounding more like Joe Friday than the literary detectives who inspired the first book. He has found something for Jessica Sorrow the Unbeliever and presents to her in the Church of Saint Jude. While there, he witnesses a confrontation that leaves a man a pillar of salt. The angels, both light and dark, have come to the Nightside.    Taylor is hired to by the Vatican to find the Unholy Grail, the cup that Judas Iscariot drank from at the Last Supper. Others are also hunting for this powerful relict, including the angelic hosts of above and below. Shortly after he accepts his commission, others try to force him to change sides. Taylor hires Suzy Shooter as backup and starts looking. This time he can't use his talent, for the angels have already plucked his mind from his body and tried to force him into finding the relic for them (final recipient to be decided later). Some think that he should not give either side the chalice, for that would precipitate the apocalypse, with Nightside the battleground.    As he follows his leads, Taylor witnesses enough angelic violence to not wish to encourage the final confrontation. People snatched off the streets to be questioned and then discarded, sometimes in pieces, as well as people turned into pillars of salt or impaled on light poles. He finds, and then loses again, a weapon capable of discreating angels or anything else, but only at great cost to his soul.    Among the blood, pain and fire, Taylor treats with old friends and enemies, uncovers massacres and blood baths, and follows his leads. Then he finds the relic and witnesses a miracle.    Oh, did I forget to tell your about the small group of minor demons running a house of ill-repute, the Fourth Reich, or the right-wing Warriors of the Cross? Well, this is a short review, as is the book. Its only defect, if any, is the brevity of the story, but there is a lot packed inside!     Highly recommended for Green fans and for anyone else who enjoys urban fantasy with a theological flavor and an American detective story setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-11-01
917944:US	49390985	R201QT0B3WITY5	0756402093	161730693	First Rider's Call: Book Two of Green Rider	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Haunted by a Legend	First Rider's Call is the second novel in the Green Rider series, following Green Rider.  In the previous volume, Karigan G'ladheon has forcibly separated Prince Amilton from Shawdell the Eletian, set loose the wild magic, convinced Jendara to change sides, and thus restored King Zachary to his throne.  She also breaks the black arrows that killed F'ryan and frees his spirit to pass on.  Although offered a position in the messenger service, she decides to return to her family and become a merchant.    In this novel, Karigan is having dreams sent by Lil Ambriodhe, the legendary First Captain of the Green Riders.  Other dangers loom and the Green Riders need Karigan back in the saddle.  Karigan resists, for she enjoys working with her family and is not eager to return to the terrifying experiences of her past service.  One morning, however, Karigan rides out to Sacor City in her nightgown.    A year later, Karigan is scouting for a diplomatic party to the Eletians, those mysterious people to the north.  The party encamps in a clearing occupied by a large rock surrounding by wardstones.  Ty and Karigan argue against the location, but are overruled.  Of course, the party is attacked by groundmites, lead by a walking dead man, and then the large rock emits a storm of energy.    The survivors of the diplomatic party are saved by the Eletians, who single out Karigan for a briefing on the situation.  It seems that the unfortunate encampment has released a wraith who was a favored servant of Morhnavon the Black.  Other wards are also failing, particularly in the D'Yer Wall.  A break therein is allowing various of Morhnavon's monsters to escape their confinement.    Thus begins another story of suspence and sudden dangers.  Karigan learns something important about her ancestors that has been forgotten for many centuries.  Moreover, she finds her ability to penetrate illusion becoming stronger ... and more necessary.    Highly recommended for Britain fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of ancient and corrupt magic being resisted by young warriors with talents of their own.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-11-01
918567:US	49390985	R2B8E8WYN7YEDI	0380979020	547078013	Paladin of Souls: A Novel	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A New Look At an Old Sorrow	Paladin of Souls is the second novel in this series, following The Curse of Chalion.  In the previous volume, Cazaril is god-touched, becoming the portal by which the Lady takes away the curse.  Iselle and Bergon have married, uniting Chalion and Ibra under their joint rule, and Cazaril and Betriz have also married.  Iselle ensures that Cazaril can support Betriz in proper style by making him Chancellor, replacing the unfortunate dy Jironal.  Ista returns to Valenda to care for her failing mother.    In this novel, three years later, the Dowager Provincara has been laid to her rest and the last of the mourners are leaving the castle.  Since her mother's death, Ista has felt confined in the castle and feels a need to go out into the world.  On an impulsive, she runs out the castle gate and down the road, but soon tires and is overtaken by her keepers.  On the way back, she meets some pilgrims traveling to various holy places and decides that she will go on a pilgrimage.  She notices a young divine of the Bastard in the party and, when he shows up at the castle as she is preparing to leave, Ista accepts him as her spiritual conductor.    Others appear and become part of her party:  Liss the courier lass and the dy Gura brothers with their ten Daughter's men.  She leaves behind all her old maids in waiting and servants as well as most of her apparel and jewels, choosing to travel incognito and without pomp.    All things appear well during the first three days, but later they encounter a bear possessed by a demon, which flies into Foix de Gura when he cuts off the bear's head.  Then they almost run into a troop of Jokonan soldiers, who have become lost while returning from a raid on the town of Parma in Ibra, and they flee for safety.  Thereafter, she learns that she is becoming a saint of the Bastard.  The pilgrimage is really not bringing her much in the way of peace and serenity.    This novel is a worthy sequel, continuing the tale of the curse, but very differentin focus than its predecessor.  It is a sort of belated coming of age or middle-aged reevaluation story, with Ista in the central position.  It seems that the lifting of the curse had unforeseen consequences, including an infestation of demons.  It changes Ista's life forever, but also brings her unexpected rewards.    This novel has an unusual cast of characters, including an animated dead man, a sorcerer dedicated to the Bastard, and a demon-possessed master sorceress and her cadre of sorcerers.  There is also a demon-gnawed groom, a demon-possessed horse, and a demon-possessed, strong-willed and foolish young woman.    This novel builds upon the previous story, but doesn't require it.  I had forgotten almost everything from The Curse of Chalion, yet I was able to follow this one fairly well.  Most of it unfolded as Ista learned her new role, casting new light on previous events.  However, I now wish that I had re-read The Curse prior to reading this volume.    Highly recommended for Bujold fans and anyone else who enjoys magical adventures with an element of mystery and romance.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-10-31
921517:US	49390985	RZXUKR46RXLCV	067157793X	616051317	On Basilisk Station (Honor Harrington #1)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	The First Book of the Salamander	On Basilisk Station (1993) is the first Naval SF novel in the Honor Harrington series. The Star Kingdom of Manticore is relatively small compared to her longtime enemy, the Republic of Haven, which in turn is dwarfed by the Solarian League. Although only having one major Junction, Manticore is rich due to the major trade routes passing through her wormholes.    Since so much of her economy is based on trade, Manticore maintains a relatively large Navy. Moreover, Manticore is one of the technological leaders in the known galaxy, probably second only to the League. Consequently, the Royal Manticoran Navy usually has a technological edge over any opponents.    Now the Star Kingdom is going to need that Navy, for the Republic is having economic difficulties and expansion is an easy way to divert attention and increase revenues. Haven is looking at the Basilisk Junction as the first step.    In this novel, Commander Honor Harrington is readying the light cruiser HMS Fearless for the upcoming Fleet exercises. The ship has been the victim of Admiral Sonya Hemphill's new approach to armaments; she has undergone a major refit, tearing out most of the heavy missile launchers and substituting a gravity lance and torpedo tubes. Since Fearless is no longer capable of traditional tactics, Honor concocts new ones and tries them out in the Fleet exercises. Although initially successful, the Aggressors soon learn to handle her tactics and \\"kill\\" her ship thirteen out of fourteen times.    The initial elation soon dies under the subsequent defeats and the crew of Fearless begins to think that first success was a fluke. Moreover, Admiral Hemphill is extremely disappointed with the success of the Aggressor countertactics and makes her displeasure known. Then the Fearless receives orders to transfer to Basilisk Station.    This novel is obviously based on the legend of Horatio Nelson, the legendary Admiral of the British Navy prior to the Napoleonic Wars. The story fairly reeks of machine oil and ozone and the combat tactics are based on real world naval battles. Yet the author smoothly merges such tactics into the three-dimensional maneuvering of spatial combat.     This story also draws heavily from the political machinations of the French monarchy prior to the Revolution, with Manticore taking the British role. Nevertheless, the plot is only loosely based on history, for no direct equivalent of the Solar League existed in our history, although the USA grew into something like the League during the 19th century.    Moreover, Haven is called a republic instead of a kingdom, but the Republic has an aristocracy if not a monarch. Also, the personnel situation onboard the Manticoran and Havenite ships is nothing like that of the late 18th century navies, although press gangs and floggings have little utility in a highly technological service.    The character of Honor Harrington is much like that of Forester's Horatio Hornblower, probably because both reflect the same historical person. She is introspective and often doubts her own abilities before combat, but reacts quickly, correctly and innovatively while under fire.    Her treecat Nimitz is a major divergence from historical accuracy, for he has abilities of which Nelson could only dream. However, treecat talents are not readily apparent in this first novel, but have been explored in the sequels as well as a series of short stories.    Anyone who likes Horatio Hornblower with enjoy this series.  The next installment in this sequence is [[ASIN:0671721720 The Honor of the Queen]].    Highly recommended for Weber fans and anyone else who likes the Hornblower tales or naval combat stories in a SF setting.  Read and enjoy.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-10-29
924809:US	49390985	R3EH97YEA5OZSY	0446532215	815601065	The Elder Gods: Book One of the Dreamers (DREAMERS, BK 1)	Books	4	8	13	N	N	Can the Center Be Held?	The Elder Gods is the first novel in The Dreamers series.  The world is ruled by Mother Sea and Father Earth.  In the center of the world is the land of Dhrall, a continent divided into five areas:  four Domains along the coast and the barren wasteland in the center.  Each Domain is ruled by a god or goddess, sometimes by the elder gods and sometimes by the younger.  In this cycle, the younger gods are coming to the end of their long reign and are looking forward to relinquishing rule to their elder god replacements.  However, That-Called-The-Vlagh is stirring in the wastelands and sending scouts into the surrounding Domains.  Apparently it is the time of the Dreamers, as foretold by a mad prophet long ago.<br />In this novel, the younger god Dahlaine creates the Dreamers by transforming the elder gods into human infants, temporarily blanking their memories, and he arranges for them to be raised by himself and the other younger gods.  He places Eleria (who is really the elder goddess Balacenia) with the younger goddess Zelana.  Eleria is nursed by pink dolphins, learns to speak dolphinese, and cavorts in and under the water with them.  The other three elder gods grow up elsewhere in a similar manner according to the whims of their patrons.<br />The gods per se don't sleep, so they cannot dream.  However, the Dreamers are gods who do sleep and dream, but the transformation only allows them to exert power in the real world through their dreams.  Moreover, the gods cannot kill despite their great powers, but the transformed Dreamers can do so via their dreams.<br />Since the servants of That-Called-The-Vlagh have started intruding into the Domains of the Gods, the younger gods go out into the surrounding world and arrange for fighting men (and women) to come to defend Dhrall for gold.  Zalena brings the Maag pirates to defend her Domain and her brother Veltan hires a Trogite army.  Since the Maags mostly prey on Trogite ships, there is no love lost between the two, leading to some interesting complications when they have to work together.<br />This novel is simpler in format and approach than prior works by this author.  It starts off very simply with a group of four gods who are very naive, almost innocent, and subject to all sorts of human foibles;  they are basically rustic divinities.  While they have been vegetating, the outside world has left them behind, producing several instances of future shock among the gods.<br />The social and technological aspects of this novel are a mixture of several societies and eras.  The people within Zelana's Domain are much like the American Indians.  However, the Maag are similar to Vikings in their naval technology and habits, but have towns more like the British or French of that time.  In the same way, the Trogites most resemble the Imperial Romans, but their armies are much like the condottieri of 19th century Italy and their ships are more like medieval cogs.  But the Maag raiding of the Trogite gold shipments is much like the English attacking the Spanish galleons.<br />This novel leaves some doubt as to whether That-Called-The-Vlagh is the overmind of its servants or a separate entity within the overmind.  In any case, it (or she) lays eggs and is able to change the genetic code to induce various changes in the hatched servants.  She produces various standard types of creature, much like the queen of an ant or bee colony, but more intelligently and with greater flexibility.  It is capable of producing huge numbers of servants in a very short time.  Most appear to have poisonous fangs and stings.<br />The dialogue is pure Eddings, full of sass and repartee.  This novel, however, seems to have more emphasis on humor and satire.  The gods arrange for automatic language translation, so the various characters have no trouble communicating, usually in the typical, and cynical, wording of soldiers of any country.  Since the Domains of the Gods basically have a barter economy, the commentaryby the gods about the overwhelming desire of the civilized outsiders for gold becomes very sharp wit indeed.<br />Apparently there will be four volumes within this series.  This novel covers the introduction and the Domain of Zelana.  Now, there are three more Domains and the wasteland still to go.<br />Recommended for Eddings fans and anyone else who enjoys exciting adventures against hideous creatures from the barren wastes.	2003-10-27
928808:US	49390985	R2ZE4B8XGEWDNW	0743435818	9930668	The Anguished Dawn	Books	4	10	12	N	N	A Conflict of Worldviews	The Anguished Dawn is the sequel to Cradle of Saturn.  In the previous volume, a new planet, Athena, has been ejected from Jupiter in a Velikovskian scenario, ravaging the Earth and disrupting orbits.  A few people have been evacuated off the planet by the Kronians and resettled on the moons of Saturn. Athena has passed beyond the Earth, but continues to disrupt the inner-system with its gravitic attraction, electrical discharges, and poisonous tail.  Moreover, smaller debris from this ejection are still sweeping through space as far out as the Kronian colonies, impacting on planets, moons and manmade objects.<br />In this novel, Landen Keene leads a group of Kronian engineers developing an dual-purpose fusion-plant, producing both thrust and electrical power, thus providing mobile temporary power for settlements and work camps.  He is on LORIN 5 above Saturn learning about orbital operations, when a cluster of objects is detected in an orbit intersecting both Titan and Rhea.  The Long Range Intercept Station launches heavy-metal lasing rods at the most dangerous objects, but does not have enough to dissipate the whole cluster.  People on both moons are killed and the Security Arm training center on Rhea is demolished.<br />After his memorable visit to LORIN 5, Lan returns to Titan for a meeting with his boss, Pang-Yarbat, and a potential addition to their group, Jan Wernstecki.  After Pang and Lan describe their development of electrogravitic devices, Jan is definitely sold on changing jobs.<br />After this meeting, Lan has drinks with Ludwig Grasse and Claud Valcroix, European governmental officials who had evacuated from the planet through the Eurospace facilities in Algeria.  Ludwig sounds out Lan's willingness to participate in a political effort to achieve power for the Terran survivors.  Although Lan is not interested, he acts noncommittal to draw out more information.<br />Lan's close friend Vicki is working in the Planetary Sciences section of Kropotkin's Polysophic Academy.  She and her boss, Farzhin, have been delving ever deeper into the Vedas and other ancient literature to discover more about the catastrophic changes that have occurred within the Solar System.  Now they have invited Sariena and Charley Hu to a briefing on their latest discoveries.<br />Vicki's son Robin has been moody and despondent since their evacuation and is considering leaving school to join the Security Arm.  When Lan talks to him, Robin is brusque and noncommunicative.<br />This story is about a clash of cultures.  The Kronians had originally settled on the moons of Saturn to get away from the intense competition between individuals and groups on Earth.  Over the decades, the Kronians have developed a cooperative society that values individual competence over material wealth.  In fact, the Kronians have no means of exchange, but rather everything is available to anyone.  Now they have an influx of self-selected immigrants, many of whom are firm practitioners of competitive and even cutthroat tactics.<br />Although some of the Terran survivors try to explain the danger, the Kronians are naive enough to believe that they are not in any danger from these powermongers. They learn their lesson the hard way.<br />These story also involves some Terran survivors who experienced the catastrophe first-hand, a group of the left-behind.  The contrast of these hunter-gathers with the technological sophistication of the Kronians increases the suspense and impact.<br />The philosophical differences between the Terrans and the Kronians are discussed to some extent, but the story itself contrasts the different consequences of these apprproaches.  Essentially, the story illustrates the destructive effects of the Terran methods and the creative effects of the Kronian approach.<br />Recommended for Hogan fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of cutting edge technology and truly different human cultures.	2003-10-23
928976:US	49390985	R1E6ASI8IFOM8Q	034540856X	685150972	The Collapsium	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Long Time to Mature	The Collapsium is a novel of the intermediate future.  Many years from now, at least a century and probably more, mankind has machines that can build anything from a pattern, including the human body.  Moreover, these facsimile (or fax) machines can be connected to transmitters and receivers to send one or more copies of someone's body pattern to other locations on the planets or in space and then to merge the copies back to a single individual.  All illness, injuries, and aging are filtered out of the body pattern during transmission, thereby ensuring effective immorbidity and extreme longevity for everyone.<br />Now that everyone is planning on living forever and has all the wealth that they can possibly use, mankind has become tired of democracy and individual responsibility, so they have created the Queendom of Sol.  Fortunately, one royal personage remains after all the years of slaughtering monarchs to obtain liberty:  Princess Tamatra Litui of the tiny kingdom of Tonga.  Without asking her opinion on the matter, mankind has elected her Queen of Sol with an overwhelming majority and has carefully ensured that she has responsibilities, obligations and moral authority, but no real power.  Furthermore, mankind has decided that she should be the Virgin Queen, but her first official act as Queen was to Censure all involved in forcing the position upon her, then her second act was to ensure that her virginity would be renewed as needed, and her third act was to call for suitors.<br />In this novel, Bruno de Towaji is a Declarant-Philander;  that is, he has been granted the highest honor in the Kingdom for his construction of the Iscog (Inner-System Collapsiter Grid) linking the inner planets and he has been further honored as one of the Queen's consorts.  He is also unbelievably rich from his royalties from Iscog;  for example, he donates a hundred trillion dollars to the Venus terraforming effort.  Bruno has spent the last eleven years alone on his tiny world withits miniature mountains, low-flying clouds, and neubles to provide gravity.    He is attempting to build an Arc de Fin, to see the light at the end of the universe.  However, trouble comes knocking in the form of the Queen herself.<br />While Bruno has been away, Declarant-Philander Marlon Sykes has started a giant project to build a bypass collapsiter ring around Sol to speed messages and matter patterns through the inner-system. However, a solar flare has knocked many grapple stations offline and the incomplete ring is dropping inward.  Although Marlon and others have tried everything that they can conceive to slow or reverse the fall, nothing has worked and they are running out of time.  Tamra asks that Bruno come to assist in the recovery and he agrees.<br />In this novel, Bruno and Marlon are understandably uneasy around each other.  Both are Declarants, an elite group of only twenty-nine persons in the entire history of the Queendom.  Moreover, they are both former consorts of the Queen and both are still deeply enamored with her, although she is partial to Bruno.  Nevertheless, they are both genius-level scientists, far superior to any other person in the Queendom, and neither has any other peers, so they can only really talk shop with each other.<br />Bruno has problems fitting into Queendom society, yet the public seems to lionize him.  He keeps making faux pas in conversation and behavior, but the people forgive him.  He can't understand what they want from him and it deeply embarrasses him that he doesn't know how to meet their expectations.  Moreover, they cut into his think time, so he goes off to his little world and works.<br />This story is mostly about the maturation of Bruno.  Although he is continually being asked to solve complicated problems, they present no real difficulties, at least not as much as his relationships with Tamra and others whom he meets and likes.<br />This story is also full of wonders, scientific and technological marvels based on bleeding edge speculations in contemporary Physics.  While many similar ideas have been around for some time, current speculations in science and technology have provided new rationales for such notions.  Much of this future technology is based on collapsium, particle sized structures constructed from synthetic black holes.  Another technology of the future is wellstone, artificial atoms constructed from semiconductor chips, that can be programmed to emulate any kind of matter.<br />Overall, this novel has almost everything a hard science fiction story should have.  Maybe Bruno makes the solutions seem too easy, but he IS a supergenius.  While the plot is fantastic and old-fashioned, it is not improbable.  The characters are unusual, yet consistent with their histories.  The dialogue is flamboyant, but so are the times.  A very enjoyable read.<br />Highly recommended for McCarthy fans and anyone else who enjoys hard science fiction stories with decent plots and good characterization.	2003-10-23
929136:US	49390985	R2TDECV09MFTJ	0553584464	722187585	The Wellstone	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Adolescent Angst in the Queendom of Sol	The Wellstone is the second novel in The Queendom of Sol series, following The Collapsium.  In the previous volume, Bruno foils a plot to destroy Sol, is crowned King of Sol, and replaces the fragmented and compromised Iscog with the Nescog, based on Sykes' designs for the Solar Collapsiter Ring.  Of more importance, that which was lost was found, and he marries the recovered Tamra.<br />In this novel, a few decades have passed since the marriage;  King Bruno and Queen Tamatra have a son, Prince Bascal.  A born leader, he is most often found leading his companions into trouble.  His parents have sent him to Camp Friendly on a miniature planet in the Kuiper Belt and he takes over the camp, terrifying the director and counselors, and then breaks out to return to Earth.<br />The prince has come back to Earth to start a revolution (which is a surprise to his fourteen male companions).  They gather upstairs in a cafe outside Denver and start partying.  The prince gains the confidence of a local girl, Xiomara Li Weng, and aspires to attain access through her to a network of young people in the Denver area.  He is planning to trash the Queendom or, at least, the wellstone in it.<br />As the group is becoming organized, the Constabulary appears and place the escaped youngsters under arrest.  At least, the cops think that they have all the escapees, but they fail to notice that one of the arrested boys is really a girl, Xmary, and so Feck is still at large.  The revolution continues.<br />This story is told from the point-of-view of Conrad Mursk, one of the prince's companions.  Conrad (as Radmer) is also the protaganist of the framing story, wherein he travels to a miniature planet to retrieve Bruno de Towaji to correct a problem with the &quot;squeezed&quot; Luna.  The framing story occurs much later than the central tale, so far in the future that Bruno's thoughts have worn deep paths through his brain.  For some reason, the facsimile machines and the collapsiter web no longer function, so Radmer has to fly through space in a brass ball, using chemical explosives to propel the craft and manual navigation to guide it;  he almost misses the king's planetoid, whereupon he would have been lost in space forever.<br />This story is about the generation gap and immorbidity in the Queendom of Sol.  The prince is a royal personage who may never reign, for his parents will potentially live forever.  Moreover, his parents have been elected to the positions of Queen and King, so he might not be selected as King even if they abdicate.<br />Like many seventeen year olds, Bascal is trying to find his place in society and in life itself, but he sees no future in it for himself and his friends.  Of course, his parents don't fully understand his complaints and the arguments have gone on so long that everybody is frustrated.  The prince is ready to just start breaking things.<br />This novel is not quite  dystopian, but it does illustrate the other side of material paradise.  The basic premise is much like Heinlein's Beyond This Horizon, that material plenty and long life are not enough.  Once mankind's physical needs are met and even luxuries are available to all people, what will each individual do to fill their lives?  Most people have a need to achieve, but only a few individuals have the ability to create new things.  What do the less talented people do to make their lives meaningful?  If they cannot create, do they destroy things?  This theme has been used before, but it worth repeating.<br />The framing story is interesting, yet confusing.  Maybe it will lead to the next installment in this series.<br />Recommended for McCarthy fans and anyone else who enjoys hard science fiction about technologically advanced societies inhabited by realistic characters.	2003-10-23
931787:US	49390985	R3R7OYE0JAUKWP	0743436059	612603800	E.godz	Books	5	15	19	N	N	Finding Your Inner Self	E. Godz is a novel about earth magic in its many guises.  Edwina Godz was an independently wealthy flower child in the 60's who paid closer attention than most to her gurus and spiritual guides.  Using the sharp mind and business acumen inherited from her father, Edwina started a holding company, E. Godz, Inc., for spiritual organizations, providing tax advice and administrative support.  Along the way, she also had two children by different fathers, but found that her managerial talents were much stronger than her maternal instincts.    In this novel, Edwina is very upset that her daughter and son cannot stand each other.  She has tried every trick and manipulation in her repertoire, but nothing has worked.  Now she is down to her last card:  she decides to die.    She sends faxes to Peez and Dov stating that her last medical checkup has uncovered an inoperable condition that will kill her within a few months.  Since they cannot cooperate in managing the business, she has determined that E. Godz, Inc., and the bulk of her estate will be left to only one of them.  Her decision as to her heir will be made as soon as possible.    Peez and Dov are electrified and fly off to round up support from the major subsidiaries of the company.  They each visit the same people, but in reverse order:  the witch, the Egyptian revival, the totem pole carver, the California cult, the Indian shaman, and the voodoo priest.  Each carries a magical construct as a companion;  Peez has her Teddy Tumtum and Dov has Ammi the amulet.    This novel is a quest for spiritual enlightenment for both parties.  At first the subsidiaries are just accounts and statistics, but they begin to see some of Edwina's purposes in supporting these people.  They also begin to become independent of their emotional security blankets;  the laughing-out-loud funniest scene in the book is when Teddy gets thrown out the window of Sam's pickup.    This story is about character and love and spirituality and has littleto do with action or even plot.  Label it a spiritual coming of age or a finding your own inner self story, but the tale is about delving underneath the public persona to discover one's basic personality.      This is written by two authors known for their humor and it shows throughout the story.  However, it is mostly quiet humor, with a touch of Jewish satire and some situational comedy.  Teddy is pure Asprin, with a cutting wit reminiscent of Aahz the Pervect, but Edwina is pure Friesner, depicting a somewhat atypical Jewish mother (what mother is willing to confess to behaving like Edwina).    Since the authors are known for moralizing, it may not come as a shock that this story has a moral, but I am not certain what it is!  Maybe that Mother Nature doesn't like siblings to quarrel with each other?  In any case, the ending is quite in character with the rest of the story and satisfying to boot.  Although I am still not sure what the squirrel has to do with anything.    Of course, none of the enjoyment I found in this volume excuses the authors from producing more of the Skeeve and Chicks books.    Recommended for Asprin and Friesner fans and anyone else who enjoys tales with quiet humor and self-enlightenment.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-10-21
932761:US	49390985	R2IXZT4TSIR908	031287717X	284373444	The Wayfarer Redemption, Book 1	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Living Is A Learning Experience	The Wayfarer Redemption (1995) is the first novel in The Axis Trilogy. Originally published as Battleaxe in the Australian version, this novel is the first of six novels, two trilogies, but only the first trilogy has been published in the USA to date.    Long before, on the continent of Tencendor, the Acharites dwelled in peace with the Avars and the Icarii. Then the Seneschal raised a new religion among the Acharites that led to the bloody War of the Axe. The Acharites drove the Avars and the Icarii away from the plains of Achar and penned them behind the Fortress Range. Now the Avar and the Icarii are called the Forbidden and are shunned or killed by the Acharites.    Later, prophecy foretold the coming the Destroyer, who will wage war on all three races, and the Starman, who will unite the three once more. Now two females, impregnated by the same male, are near death in the snowy wilderness. One will bear the Destroyer and the other has borne the Starman.    In this novel, twenty-nine years later, the winter is unusually cold and strange creatures have appeared in the north. These things cannot be touched by steel weapons and have attacked and overcome even armed and armored men. They seem to be driving thousands of Ravensbundmen south into Ichtar. Elsewhere, villagers have seen other creatures, like short, dark men, carrying children near the Forbidden places.    Furthermore, King Priam reports that the wraiths, led by another kind of creature, have recently attacked the commander of Gorkenfort in his personal quarters, injuring him and shredding some of his guards. These creatures have also attacked the Seneschal's Retreat in Gorkentown, killing all but two of the Brothers, stealing a body from the crypt, and destroying the library.    Borneheld, Duke of Ichtar and the WarLord, has been sending troops to Gorkenfort for weeks. Now he intends to speed up the process and to send as many as possible by ship. Also, he plans to accompany the troops to Gorkenfort to take command.     Axis is BattleAxe of the Axe-Wielders, the military force of the Seneschal. He is ordered to take most of his troops to the Silent Woman Keep to learn more about the Forbidden and then to recon the route to Smyrton and its environs. He is to leave some of his men in Smyrton and take the rest to Gorkenfort, placing himself and his troops under the command of Borneheld, his older half-brother. Axis is not happy about being under Borneheld's command, but Borneheld is very pleased (obnoxiously so).    Faraday, daughter of Earl Isend, is hastily betrothed to Borneheld as the army prepares to move out. Due to the dangers in the northern Duchies, her father decides to send her to the home of Earl Burdel in Arcen until her marriage to Borneheld. She will be escorted there by the Axis and his Axe-Wielders, her mother will accompany her, and Embeth, the Lady of Tare, will join them for the first part of the journey.    This novel is a journey of discovery for all involved. Axis learns the secrets that have been kept from him by the Brothers. Faraday gains a position of responsibility that she never imagined. And Borneheld learns that there are limits to his power.    This first volume in the series is full of twists and turns, enemies and allies, and the workings of prophecy. Axis is the center of this novel and the trilogy. He learns some of his heritage in this volume and begins to see the larger picture, but he has to work around Borneheld, who refuses to believe that everything has changed.    Apparently this series has disappointed a large number of people while satisfying many others. I found this book to be enjoyable, even though it has flaws. Maybe it could have been better written, but could it have been more satisfying? Maybe, but I am willing to follow this author as long as she provides enjoyable stories. Hopefully, future works will satisfy the technical critics, but that is not my thing; interesting and smooth flowing will do nicely.    AlthoughI too get exasperated at the characters for not doing the obvious, it is less annoying than the Iliad (Achilles is a first class jerk)! My impression of the characterization is that it is mostly believable and compatible with the story. The hero and heroine are surrounded with people who teach and assist them in their efforts to meet the various obstacles and challenges, just as in real life we have mentors and associates who help us along the way. Life is a learning experience to many of these characters just as it is to real people.    Recommended for all fans of epic tales of swords and sorcery.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-10-20
933373:US	49390985	RFVBM6GM6BS60	0061051780	403897559	Journey into the Void: Volume Three of the Sovereign Stone Trilogy (Weis, Margaret)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The Return of the Dominion Lords	Journey Into the Void is the third novel in the Sovereign Stone Trilogy, following Guardians of the Lost.  In the previous volume,  Wolfram has brought Ranessa to the monastery on Dragon Mountain, where her real mother brings out the dragon in her.  Dagnarus and his army of ten thousand taan come through the Tromek Portal and invade the Vinnengaelean Empire.  Baron Shadamehr flees to New Vinnengael with  Damra, Griffith, Jessan, Bashae, and the Grandmother.  There they find the king has been murdered and Shakur the Vrykyl has replaced the young Prince Hirav.  Shadamehr discovers the Vrykyl's identity the hard way;  he is gravely injured by Shakur and has to escape through a fifth floor window.<br />In this novel, Damra and Griffith travel invisibly to the harbor and contact the Orken captain waiting for Shadamehr.  The baron, Alise and Jessan go to cover in a nearby tavern.  Alise determines that Shadamehr is dying from a blood knive wound.  Since she in unable to use Earth magic after her use of Void magic, Alise sends Jessan to fetch Ulaf to cure the baron with his magic.  However, the baron is fading fast, so she uses Void magic to transfer some of her life force to Shadamehr to counteract the wound and almost dies herself.<br />Ulaf finds the missing pecwae in the company of a Vrykyl and takes them to the Tubby Tabby.  Jessan joins them there and then the Grandmother whaps the Vrykyl with her stick, forcing him to show his true aspect;  in the ensuing havoc, Bashae is mortally wounded and Jessan is injured.<br />They flee back to the tavern where Alise and Shadamehr are hiding and find her close to death, but the baron conscious and much improved.  However, Bashae is dying, so he gives the human piece of the Sovereign stone to Shadamehr and the baron takes it this time.  The Grandmother drapes her skirt, with its bells and magic stones, over Alise and she quickly recovers from the Void magic.<br />The baron sends Ulaf to get Rigiswald and travel to Krammes.  Jessan and the Grandmother agree to travel with Ulaf at least part of the way, for they are taking home the body of Bashae.  Shadmehr and Alise venture through the sewers to reach the Orken ship.  They reach the Orken with little difficulty, other than the stench and one puzzling encounter with some taan, and soon sail off to Krammes.<br />This novel is one dire encounter after another.  Other characters, including Ravenstrike the Trevinici, Fenella the dwarf girl, the Orken Captain of Captains, and K'let the taan Vrykyl, have their moments of glory, but the final encounter is between Dagnarus and the Sovereign Stone within the Portal of the Gods.<br />Recommended for Weis and Hickman fans and anyone else who enjoys tales of magical quests.	2003-10-20
937903:US	49390985	R1PDPBAFLB4YVV	0671577883	367834271	Black on Black	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Lost-Male Returns	Black on Black is the first novel in the Hrinn series.  Heyoka Blackeagle is a hrinn who was stolen from his people as a cubling.  Rescued from the slavers by a old trader, Ben Blackeagle, Heyoka has been raised among the Oglala Lakota.  Now he is a Confederate Ranger and is spending a leave on Anktan searching for his hrinnti roots.  Unfortunately, his partner, Mitsu Jensen, insists on joining him.    In this novel, Heyoka approaches the hrinnti near the base, is disparaged as one of the Dead smelling Outsiders, yet is invited to the males' house for more talk.  Mitsu ignores his efforts to go alone, follows behind him, and is caught by the hrinnti.  Heyoka has just learned that he comes from the Levv Line, but rushes out of the males' house when he hears the sounds of Mitsu fighting her captor.  Although he tries to hurry through the crowd, he is slowed and slashed by some of the males and she is gone by the time he gets there.    Heyoka returns to the base to start a search for Mitsu, but the Director of the Research Station, Eeal Eldrich, refuses to let any of his people join the search.  Moreover, the station doctor sedates him while tending his wounds.  When he awakes the following morning, the trail is long cold, but he goes out anyway.  As he attempts to enter the Line Hold where Mitsu is being held, the males catch up to him and escort him down into their meeting house.  There he is accused of being a fake manufactured by the Outsiders and is challenged to a duel.  The leader of the house, Nisk, intercedes, declares that he is sponsoring Heyoka, and takes the challenge for him.  When Nisk loses, both he and Heyoka have to leave the area by sundown.    Something is going on that involves the research station and some of the Line leaders, something that resulted in the destruction of the Levv Line almost thirty years ago.  To the hrinnti, a new and awesome pattern/in/progress is forming, centered on the black-on-black male, Heyoka.  Some of the hrinnti are trying to kill him and others are protecting him.  Meanwhile, someone is using off-world weapons to kill hrinnti.    The author obviously knows something about the American Plains Indians and other Indian tribes, for some the hrinnti culture and environment seems to derive from these people.  However, the hrinnti society also has some similarity to the pack behavior of wolves.  All in all, the author has created a believable sentient, but predatory, species and culture.    The author does have some problems with human military ranks and terminology, but seems to have corrected these deficiencies in the sequel.  However, the author does comprehend some aspects of human military thinking and the depiction of both the hrinnti and the flek aliens shows a rare talent in speculative xenopsychology.    Recommended for Wentworth fans and anyone else who enjoys reading about exotic cultures in a science fiction setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-10-16
938234:US	49390985	R40Y2Q5C9QN2P	006001315X	224677970	Monstrous Regiment: A Novel of Discworld	Books	5	17	26	N	N	The Female Is Deadlier Than the Male	Monstrous Regiment is the thirty-first novel in the Discworld series, following The Wee Free Men.  This novel is set in the Grand Duchy of Borogravia.  The national god, Nuggan, has a holy book, like most gods, but HE issues frequent and direct updates to the Abominations appendix in each copy of his book within Borogravia, so that it is a \\"living testament\\".  Among other things that are an Abomination unto Nuggan are chocolate, garlic, cats, dwarfs, the color blue, and women wearing men's clothing.    These Abominations have led to the Borogravians tearing down the clacker towers through the region, which greatly annoys Ankh-Morpork and the surrounding countries.  Lord Vetinari sends Sam Vimes as his special envoy to the Alliance of nations invading Borogravia.  His first priority is ending the war.    In this novel, Polly Perks decides to go look for her older brother, who had enlisted in the Tenth Foot, his father's old unit, and hasn't written home for much too long.  Paul is a bit simple, so Polly has been minding him since she was very young and she sees no reason to stop doing so.    Polly cuts her hair short and dresses as a young man -- an Abomination unto Nuggan -- and travels to a small town where she is not known.  She enlists as Oliver Perks in the Tenth Foot, the Ins-and-Outs, and several others enlist right after her, including a vampire, a Troll, and an Igor.  Sergeant Jackrum cheerfully signs them up, has them kiss the Duchess' picture, and gives them an IOU for their shilling.  Corporal Strappi, however, has misgivings about the whole thing.    When the recruits reach Plotz, they discover that they are the very last to join up, so there is a shortage of uniforms and equipment and the available materiel has been scrounged from the dead and wounded.  Moreover, their new officer, Lieutenant Blouse, informs them that they will be skipping arms training and going directly into battle.  Strappi thinks this is funny until he learns that he will be accompanying them.  Then the Lieutenant gives Sergeant Jackrum his discharge papers.    At this point, the real fun begins.  Strappi goes AWOL, Jackrum manages to nullify his discharge, the enemy sends a cavalry patrol to intercept them, and an Ankh-Morpork reporter shows up to cover their capture.  Along the way, Polly learns that she isn't the only woman in the army under false pretenses.    This novel satires the usual targets -- aristocrats, petty gods, snoops and busybodies, etc. -- but also takes aim at warfare and at the role of women therein.  Although he exaggerates for effect, the author points out that it is a little too late to protect women from the horrors of war, for women have been just as much involved in war as men since time immemorial and some have even disguised themselves as men and served in the armies.  As Polly observes, at least she gets to carry weapons and get some respect as a man.  While military communal showers would probably make it difficult for women to successfully pass as men nowadays, the barrier has already been broken many times.    This novel is not as farcical as many previous works, but it does have its moments, particularly when the women disguised as men pose as washerwomen.  The Lieutenant provides a fair amount of comedy just by his romantic notions of warfare and dreams of glory, as contrasted to Sergeant Jackrum's pragmatic cynicism.    The title of this novel apparently alludes to a misogynist pamphlet by John Knox, The Monstrous Regiment of Women;  this disparaging view of women seems to be the main target of this satire.  The ending of this novel is not really a termination, for the cycle of warfare continues and Polly is off on another mission.  Possibly there will be a sequel!    Recommended for Pratchett fans and anyone else who enjoys social satire and ironical comments in a fantasy setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-10-16
938942:US	49390985	R278X6Z3A9OKAD	0671319752	272498178	Changer of Worlds (Worlds of Honor #3)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Again, the Worlds of Honor	Changer of Worlds (2001) is the third anthology in the Worlds of Honor series.  This volume contains four stories, three by David Weber and one by Eric Flint.  Only the first story is about Honor herself.    Ms. Midshipwoman Harrington by David Weber describes Honor's middy cruise with the HMS War Maiden on pirate-chasing duty in Silesia.  It proves to be rather more interesting than usual and the Salamander finds herself in the hottest of combat for the first time.    Changer of Worlds by David Weber tells what happens one afternoon while Honor babysits the kits for Nimitz and Samantha.    From the Highlands by Eric Flint discloses the actual events underlying the Manpower Incident in Chicago on Old Earth.  It all starts when somebody kidnaps Anton Zilwicki's daughter Helen.  That was their first mistake, but hardly the last.    Nightfall by David Weber depicts the last days of the Rob Pierre government and the consequences of making assumptions.    These tales fill in some of the backstory and show other points of view within the main story arc.  They enrich the universe and allow minor characters in the main story to take center stage.    Highly recommended for Honor Harrington fans and anyone else who enjoys science fiction stories about spatial combat, alien societies, special ops or political intrigue.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-10-15
940528:US	49390985	R3QJFWL2LHGRSD	0743471482	503866570	Crown Of Slaves (Honor Harrington)	Books	5	31	32	N	N	A Really Special Operation	Crown of Slaves (2003) is the first novel in a new series set in the Honor Harrington universe. This novel is a sequel to From the Highlands in [[ASIN:0743435206 Changer of Worlds]], in which Helen Zilwicki is kidnapped in Chicago by Scrags -- genetic supermen -- in the employ of Manpower, but Captain Anton Zilwicki of the Royal Manticoran Navy, gets her back with help from Victor Cachat of Haven State Security, Colonel Kevin Usher of the Haven Marines, and Jeremy X of the Audubon Ballroom. Helen also brings out two local youngster, Lars and Berry, who have helped her escape from her captors and Anton adopts them after returning home.  In this novel, many years later, Hieronymus Stein, head of the Renaissance Association, has been assassinated and rumors link Manpower to the incident. Queen Elizabeth of Manticore decides to send Princess Ruth Winton, adopted daughter of her brother, Michael, to Erewhon to attend the memorial gathering in an unofficial way. The Queen requests that Anton Zilwicki and Berry accompany her. Since Ruth has ambitions to be the family spymaster, Anton also agrees to teach her tradecraft during the trip.  As a subterfuge to increase Ruth's safety, she and Berry undergo nanotech surgery to trade identities. For additional security, Anton and the girls travel to Erewhon on the Pottawatomie Creek, an armed frigate, which is crewed mostly by Audubon Ballroom \\"terrorists\\" being trained by Anton in naval tactics and shiphandling.  Haven also sends unofficial observers to the gathering, Kevin Usher's wife Virginia and Victor Cachat, posing as an unfaithful wife and her boy-toy. They have instructions to encourage Erewhon to change their allegiance from Manticore to Haven. While at the reception, Naomi Imbesi attempts to seduce Victor on orders from her uncle, Walter Imbesi, currently leader of the opposition in Erewhon, and of course Ginny Usher helps cover the rendezvous.  The Solar League Navy also has a delegation attending the gathering. Captain Luiz Rozsak is leading a black operation on Erewhon against his nominal superior, Ingemar Cassetti. They are also tracking a group of Masadan and Scrag terrorists employed by Manpower. The SLN has its own unit of Scrag women commanded by Marine Lieutenant Thandi Palane; these \\"Amazons\\" have a grudge against the Manpower Scrags, many of whom are former boyfriends.  When the Masadans and their Scrag converts attempt to kidnap Princess Ruth, they fall in a trap set by Victor Cachat and trigger a joint operation by Erewhonese, Havenites, Manticorans, Solar Leaguers, and the Audubon Ballroom against Manpower. Berry gets to play princess for a little longer while the real princess is conniving with the spooks and troops. However, Professor W.E.B. Du Havel has conceived of another role for Berry.  This novel is tour de force of major proportions, an almost pure wish fulfillment fantasy, a chain of events that could only happen in an illogical and chaotic universe. Well, stranger things have happened, but it is hard to think of anything as convoluted and one-sided as this caper. Pity the poor Masadan/Scrag terrorists, not to mention the Manpower slavers, for they are steamrollered. Great fun! Totally ridiculous, but also totally enjoyable!  Highly recommended for Weber and Flint fans and anyone else who enjoys special ops, political intrigue, and justice served in huge helpings.  -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-10-14
940797:US	49390985	R2Y9PCLU7PRAD8	0765307049	536645124	Darknesses (Corean Chronicles, Book 2)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	The Long Way Home	Darknesses (2003) is the second novel in the Corean Chronicles series, following Legacies.  In the previous volume, Alucius has destroyed the purple gem that is the source of the Matrial's longevity and power, thus disrupting the control collars.  He escapes with a company of new recruits back to the Iron Valleys.  While his feat is unprecedented, the ruling council refuses to release him from the militia, but does recognize him as the Captain of the Twenty-first Company formed from the other escaping troops.    In this novel, Alucius is enjoying leave-time with his family, especially with Wendra, his new wife.  However, he soon has to depart and return to duty.  On his way back to Emal, two men try to ambush him, but he disposes of both and continues on his way.  When he reaches Emal, he is brought up to date by Captain Feran, commander of the Third Foot.  They have received warnings of Deforyan raiders along the border, although Feran and Alucius believe this to be highly unlikely.  Both agree that Colonel Clyon is probably bypassing the council's biases and subtly warning them of possible Lanachronan raids under false colors.    Alucius sets up an aggressive patrolling schedule and discovers signs of small groups of riders near the river.  He starts leading out patrols before dawn and soon finds tracks indicating that a larger group has preceded them down the river road.  He sets up an ambush and wipes out all the intruders.  However, these men have no possessions or insignia that clearly identifies their affiliation.    The Traders' Council soon cuts back on ammunition and supplies.  Despite continuing excursions of raiders, Alucius and Feran have to scrounge for money to pay and equip their troops.  Eventually, the council bows to monetary and political pressure and effectively become the Lanachronan northern territories and the militia becomes the Northern Guard.  Military posts and fortifications along the border are abandoned, Alucius is promoted to Over-captain, and both the Twenty-first and the Third are ordered to join a Lanachronan expedition to Deforya.    Alucius leads his company far from home against powerful and numerous opponents.  Moreover, he has to fight his way out of other ambushes directed against him personally.  However, he does learn more about his talents and the interest shown in him by the Soarers.    This novel leaves many interesting puzzles and loose ends.  While it ends the story arc begun in Legacies, other stories are promised in this series.  These two novels certainly establish a good foundation for several excellent sequels.    Highly recommended for Modesitt fans and for anyone else who enjoys realistic military and politically oriented fantasies.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-10-14
941953:US	49390985	R3APW25ERR5NDU	0312876874	54556837	Threshold	Books	5	8	13	N	N	An Ancient Egypt That Never Was	Threshold is a fantasy novel about a civilization much like ancient Egypt.  Threshold is a pyramidal object designed as a conduit of magical power.  It has been under construction for eight generations and is close to completion.  Although the ruler, Chadd-Nezzer, has provided the money, materiel and labor, the project was initiated, and is supervised, by the Magi.    In this novel, a northern girl and her father are sold into slavery to pay back his gambling debts.  Since both are excellent glassmakers, the slavers take them south to Adab in En-Dor.  There they and other skilled slaves are sold to a factor for the Magi and then transported to Ashdod, where they sail south on the Lhyl river, first to Setkoth and then to Gesholme, where Threshold is being built.    In Setkoth, they encounter the Magus Boaz, who refuses to believe that the pair are worth the amount paid for them.  When told that the girl can cage, he insists that she demonstrate her talent with a piece of fractured glass that has been discarded.  The results definitely show that she has glassworking skills, yet Boaz accuses her of being an Elemental, changes her name to Tirzah and her father's to Druse, threatens her -- which is characteristic of him and most other Magi -- and then allows the slaves to depart.    When they arrive at the construction site, the slaves are taken to Ta'uz, the Magi site master, who assigns Tirzah and her father to the workshop managed by Isphet.  Druse is lodged in the tenement for men supervised by Yaqob and Tirzah is assigned to Isphet's tenement.  When Ta'uz accompanies the girl to her lodgings, he detects that one of the slave women is giving birth to a girl-child, takes the infant away from the mother, and dashes the baby against the wall.  Only the One is allowed to breed at Threshold.    The Magi have harnessed the magic of numbers.  One is the key number, since it has only a single factor, and is therefore also related to infinity.  Since infinity equates to eternity, the Magi believe that the magic of One will allow them to tap infinite energy and eternal life through Threshold.  Every aspect of Threshold has been calculated for this effect.  In the center of the pyramid is the Infinity Chamber -- with equations carved everywhere within the glass walls -- where the actual connection to infinity will be made.    The Magi are relatively new in Ashdod, having developed the power of numbers only a few centuries before.  Prior to the Magi, the magic of Elementals was paramount, working through glass and metal, but the Magi began persecuting their rivals with the initation of the Threshold project and now many Magi believe that there are no more Elementals.    Unknown to the Magi and herself, however, Tirzah is an Elemental.  While aware that her talents allow her to hear the thoughts and feel the emotions of glass, metal, ceramics and, to a lesser extent, clay, she is not aware that others have had the same abilities.  This talent augments her skills, yet also convinces her that something dark and evil is happening in the Infinity Chamber, for the glass lining the room overwhelms her senses with their cries of foreboding and terror.    The ancient Egyptians invented mathematics and treated it as a sacred language.  According to the legends, when Pythogoras stole their secrets and fled to Greece, he and his followers also treated mathematics as sacred.  The more secular Greeks, however, soon separated the practical from the mystical and went on to develop mathematics as an alternate means of describing the physical universe.    This book speculates about the consequences of a society in which numerology can produce definite results through magical associations.  Such magic is described as cold and calculating and the practitioners are hard and heartless people, as best exemplified by Boaz's torment of Tirzah.  Yet at the center of this magic is an overlooked, and deadly, flaw.    This book is a fascinating depiction of an exoticculture that might have existed on our planet several millennia ago.  At the same time, it is a cautionary tale against over dependence upon logical and analytic reasoning, for such processes assume infinite and complete knowledge.    As might be expected, this book tends to defy logic.  The various plotlines are being tended offstage by the Soulenai from within the Place Beyond.  Thus, most things happen according to their script, to which we are not privy.  However, the Soulenai have not completely eliminated chance and the random factor, for several events surprise even them!     Recommended for Douglass fans and for anyone else who enjoys stories of strange magic in exotic locales with strong and interesting characters.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-10-13
947616:US	49390985	R2VRK0ASPZOK5N	0446610836	732469870	In the Hall of the Martian King (Jak Jinnaka)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Man of the Wager	In the Hall of the Martian King is the third novel in the Jak Jinnaka series, following A Princess of the Aerie.  In the previous volume, Jak and his friend help stymie a plot to unite the Mercurian miners against the rest of human space.  Jak and friends also manage to escape from the clutches of Princess Shyf, although he is still partially conditioned to love her.<br />In this novel, Jak is working for the Protectorates Administrative Services Corps as vice-Procurator of Deimos, the smaller and outer moon of Mars.  The most exciting thing that has happened is welcoming Uncle Sib to Mars during his two-hundredth birthday Big Circuit.  He has just seen his boss off for a vacation on the Hive and has barely settled into the expected boredom, when he receives a \\"For Your Eyes Only\\" message from Hel Faczel, the head of PASC, telling him that a extremely important religious artifact has been found on Mars.<br />Jak is instructed to turn over his duties to his staff and to go to Mars as soon as possible.  His vacationing boss also calls to congratulate him on the assignment, to remind him that he is well prepared, and to request that Jak take Pikia, his great-great-granddaughter, on the mission with him.  Jak and Pikia fly down to Mars together in the warshuttle John Carter.<br />Jak is head of the mission to Red Amber Magenta Green, the Harmless Zone kingdom where the artifact was found, but Hive Intelligence wants him to defer any credit for its success to Clarbo Waynong, a scion of a famous family slated for high office.  Unfortunately, to say that Clarbo lacks proficiency as a agent is more than an understatement;  it would be totally misleading.  Clarbo is so narcissistic and self-absorbed that he can't even understand why people don't always follow the script that he has provided them.<br />Jak is determined to do everything he can to complete the mission successfully, for Hive Intelligence has promised to completely de-condition him from Shyf's influence if he succeeds.  He suppresses his good sense several times to keep Clarbo in the mission, thereby really irritating his friends.  However, Jak knows that he is only being a good citizen of the Hive, following the dictates of the Wager.<br />This novel takes Jak's alienation from his friends even further, causing him even more mental pain.  However, he receives unexpected help from a little known Martian kingdom, Paxhaven, that provides him with an additional source of strength.  Moreover, he discovers a new friend and competent ally in Pikia.<br />Once again, the reader is agitated at the machinations of Hive Intelligence and its manipulation of Jak and his friends.  Although Jak does everything he can to achieve the goals set for him, the game is rigged against him.  The artifact, an old-fashioned lifelog, provides an explanation for some of the Machiavellian maneuvering of the Hive and other human polities as well as the problems that Jak has keeping \\"toves\\".  This installment suggests the possibility of some redemption of Jax later in the series.<br />Recommended for Barnes fans and anyone else who enjoys tales of intrigue and adventure in the far future.	2003-10-08
949052:US	49390985	RTWCSDXX4VDX0	0441010156	690410292	Red Thunder	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Home-built Spaceship to Mars`	Red Thunder is a science fiction novel about a home-built spaceship joining the race to Mars.  Manny, Dak, Kelly, and Alicia are spacenuts.  They live down the highway from Cape Canaveral and ramble over in Dak's Blue Thunder at least twice a week to watch the launches.  One day, they head over to the beach after the launch, fly low across the packed sand, and run over a man lying on the ground.  Well, they think they did and get the scare of their lives from it, but the man is really unhurt.  Drunk as a skunk, but otherwise OK.<br />Checking out his ID to determine his home address, they discover that he is a Travis Broussard, an Astronaut Colonel and NASA chief pilot.  They take him to his home and leave him with a small cajun man who looks like an elf, then return to their own homes.<br />Manny lives with his mother and aunt in the Blast-Off Motel, which they own.  Manny occupies room 201, the one with the toilet from hell.  Fifty years ago, the Blast-Off had a ocean view from every room, but then the Golden Manatee resort was built directly across the highway, all twenty stories of it.  Needless to say, money has been tight lately.  There is just not enough to send Manny to a decent technical college.<br />Dak also has money problems.  His father owns a car repair business and is a wizard at fixing cars up to pass the emissions standards.  Dak has his own business in a two-car garage behind the main repair shop: Daktari's Custom Speed Shop, where Blue Thunder was designed and built.  Business is steady, but not lucrative enough to pay for tech school.<br />Kelly, on the other hand, is the only daughter of the biggest luxury car dealer in northeast Florida.  She drives a green Porshe 921 and works as chief bookkeeper for her father's dealership, but her relationship with her father is strictly business.  She can afford to go to college anywhere, but has put it off so far.  She and Manny have a compatible relationship, but the discrepancy in income levels adds a little shakiness now and then.<br />Alicia has had it the worst.  Her father murdered her mother and is now in Raiford prison, leaving her effectively an orphan.  As a result, Alicia is now deadset against drinking anything alcoholic.<br />Eventually, the foursome return to the Broussard ranchero for food and fun.  Alicia begins to dry out Travis.  They learn that the elf is Jubal, Travis' cousin, and come to like and respect him, particularly for his friendly attitude (except when he is working).  Jubal is a mechanical and technical genius, able to fix anything and to invent truly amazing things;  Travis has been living for years off his agent's share of the royalties and other incomes from the inventions.  Jubal also begins to reciprocate their feelings, so he shows them his Squeezer!<br />This novel has been compared to Rocket Ship Galileo and has a number of parallels with the Heinlein classic, not to mention oblique and obvious references to other Heinlein books.  However, the story also harks back to the naive genius stories during the pulp era, such as Leinster's Bud Gregory stories, and the even earlier Tom Swift dime novels.  The Squeezer is the basis for a space drive, but Travis and his crew have to built the rest of the ship from unlikely components and scrounged parts.  In the Heinlein story, the ship was acquired essentially intact and ready to fly, only needing the drive and some additional electronics;  in this novel, the task is more difficult and requires more ingenuity.<br />Naturally, Travis and his crew are being sought by almost every intelligence and investigative service in the country.  Jubal has to hide out at the Blast-Off and even fixes the toilet in Manny's room.  The extended Broussard clan helps out on the preparations and the concealment.<br />This is an entirely different type of SF book than the author's usual product.  I strongly suspect it was a fun story to write and it *is* a fun story to read.<br />Recommended for Varley fans and for anyone else who likes tales about building a spaceship from scratch while avoiding government agents and then flying off to the planets.	2003-10-07
951029:US	49390985	RY4YG5QSCFHXM	0441010520	208130995	A Just Determination (A Paul Sinclair Novel)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	The Importance of Being Clear and Concise	A Just Determination is a science fiction novel about an international incident in space.  The USS Michaelson, under the command of Captain P. C. Wakefield, pursues, fires upon, and destroys an unarmed South Asian Alliance survey ship.  After completion of the JAG investigation, the Captain is relieved of command and referred to a court-martial.<br />In this novel, Ensign Paul Sinclair's first shipboard assignment is to the USS Michaelson just prior to the ship sailing on an extended cruise through US claimed space.  His orders state that he is assigned as the Assistant Combat Information Center Officer and the Executive Officer, Commander Herdez,  confirms that, indeed, that will be his primary assignment, but she also assigns him collateral duties as Ship's Legal Officer, Postal Officer, and assistant security manager.  In his primary assignment, he reports to Lieutenant Jan Tweed, the COIC and his division chief, and Commander Garcia, the Operations Department Head.<br />Sinclair bunks with the male ensigns, and Lieutenant JG Carl Meadows, in the starboard ensign locker (the female ensigns bunk in the port ensign locker).  Lieutenant Meadows introduces him to most of the other ensigns as well as to the various department chiefs.  Since he is the Legal Officer, Senior Chief Petty Officer Kowalski introduces him to First Class Master-at-arms Mate Ivan Sharpe, the &quot;Sheriff&quot;.<br />One of Sinclair's first duties as Legal Officer is to prepare an opinion for the XO as to the legal interpretation of the ship's orders.  Paul finds them broad and vague.  However, the gist of the orders is to reinforce the nation's claims to the volume of space wherein the ship is to patrol and to prevent unauthorized encroachments into this volume.<br />When the SASAL ship seems to deliberately intrude into their patrol volume, the Captain and crew are suspicious of the actions of the other ship.  The intelligence estimate mentions the possibilities of &quot;unconventional threats&quot;, which the crew interprets as Q-ships, vessels with concealed armament.   An interception is ordered by the Captain, which eventually results in the SASAL ship disabled and drifting, with all her crew dead.<br />This novel is as cross between The Caine Mutiny and the Stark incident, with a touch of Mr. Roberts.  Ensign Sinclair is originally a witness for the prosecution, but, when the Navy throws the book at Captain Wakefield, Sinclair feels that justice is not being served and volunteers to testify for the defense.<br />The action scenes and the courtroom sequences are riveting.  As with The Caine Mutiny, I had trouble putting the book down, especially after the SASAL vessel is detected.  Overall, the book is a fascinating glimpse at what the future may look like for a junior naval officer a century from now.<br />This novel also includes a romantic interest.  Unlike current warships, the USS Michaelson has a mixed crew.  Paul begins to accept one of the other ensigns as a friend and maybe something more, but he is not sure how she feels.  Both avoid any sign of impropriety to the point of confusing each other, but all is resolved after she receives orders transferring her to another ship.<br />Highly recommended for Hemry fans and anyone else who enjoyed The Caine Mutiny and other realistic fiction with a military justice theme.	2003-10-06
951209:US	49390985	R2178IIW6AERIX	0441010571	925648564	One Knight Only	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Sacrifice and Loyalty	One Knight Only is the second novel in the King Arthur series, following Knight Life.  In the previous volume, Arthur Pendragon has foiled the plotting of Morgan Le Fay, has become the Mayor of New York City, and has married the current incarnation of Guinevere.  Life is good, but circumstances soon change.<br />In this novel, Arthur has moved up the political ladder to become President of the United States.  Now he has gained another mortal enemy in a powerful terrorist, Merlin is transformed into a statue of stone (never irritate a basilisk), and an assassin has shot Gwen in the head.  She is dying slowly and Arthur is far beyond distraught.  Then Percival brings news of a possible way to cure Gwen.<br />Hidden in the Skeleton Keys offshore of Peru is a fabulous place ruled by an immortal High King.  Percy suspects that the island is one of the forms of the Holy Grail.  If they can get Gwen to the island so that she can drink from the Grail, she will be cured of her wound.<br />This novel brings together the famous king of the Britons with someone even more legendary: Gilgamesh, the original knight errant.  It is a tale of immortality, loyalty, power, and compassion.  In a way, it addresses the problems of terrorism and sworn enemies.<br />Arthur finds it hard to adapt his ancient principles to the demands of the presidency, almost running afoul of the Peter Principle, but pulling through with a little help from his friends.  As usual, his very much out of date viewpoint shows some attributes of modern society in an unusual way, but he manages to adapt and learn and the country is the better for it.<br />In some respects, this novel is not as good as his first novel (in either the original or revised form).  Some of the freshness and glamour has worn off the plot, but there are still some very funny one-liners and situations as Arthur confronts the illogical and irrational in current affairs.<br />Highly recommended for David fans and anyone else who would enjoy astory combining tales of the country bumpkin coming to town with elements of the return of the king.	2003-10-06
952667:US	49390985	R15G7735NGUMP6	0060012366	183980834	The Wee Free Men: A Story of Discworld	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Life in the Chalk Country	The Wee Free Men is the thirtieth novel in the Discworld series.  However, this volume doesn't feature Rincewind and the Luggage, the Watch or even Anhk-Morpork.  It does have witches, though.  In this novel, Tiffany Aching is a nine year old daughter of shepherds who thinks that she would like to be a witch, but isn't sure that her name is appropriate;  of course, she could always change it when she grows up.  Presently, she is attending her younger brother, Wentworth, the sticky one, who always demands sweets and wants to go to the toilet whenever he is frustrated.  Then comes a susurrus (Tiffany has read the dictionary from front to back) and the everyday sounds around her dwindle, two tiny blue men with red hair leave the area rapidly, and a mass of bubbles comes down the stream toward them.  She steps back and the green monster with large eyes and teeth misses as it tries to grab her.  Meanwhile, Miss Perspicacia Tick, a wandering witch, notices something strange in the environment and determines that another worldline is about to collide with the discworld universe.  She wants to attend to the problem, but her left elbow indicates that a witch is already present in the Chalk Country where the wall between the worlds is thinning.  However, her scrying tells her that the witch is rather undertrained and Perspicacia decides to remedy that deficiency.  After taking care of the Jenny Green-Teeth with the largest frying pan, Tiffany feels that there are some things she needs to know.  When she goes to town to acquire some knowledge from the pack of perambulating pedagogues, she finds Miss Tick waiting for her and, for only one egg and a few carrots, tells her what she needs to know at that time.  Miss Tick goes off to gather a coven to deal with the problem, but leaves her toad behind.  Tiffany finds the toad useful at times, particularly as a translator, but he is subject to spates of legalisms.  Moreover, the cold of fairy land drives him into semi-hibernation.  This novel is about witchery, grandmothers, chalk, pictsies, lawyers, fairy queens, mispronunciationed words, and other assorted profundities.  According to the product page, this book is for ages 9-12.  Hogwash, that is merely the lower limit!  Even people in their seventh decade can enjoy this book.    The author was born in Chalk Country, lives in Chalk Country, and \\"says it is amazing how much of this books he didn't have to invent\\".  It is another romp through the creations of a strange genius (is that an oxymoron?) who never fails to leave you satisfied.  Highly recommended to all Pratchett fans and anyone else who enjoys subtle humor with a sardonic, yet common, touch.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-10-04
953616:US	49390985	R2XVC2BF0PMD4O	0451451066	85458697	Rats and Gargoyles	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A Time of Momentous Change	Rats and Gargoyles is the first novel in the White Crow series.  This novel takes place in a society much like Paris in the late 17th century, but wherein the Hermetic philosophy -- i.e., magic -- of that period can effect changes in the real universe, as can Masonic and Rosicrucian principles.  The God-demons each represent ten degrees -- i.e., a decan -- of the circle of heavens.  The ruling class are Rats and the Decan Acolytes are gargoyles.  The city itself is the center of the world.<br />In this novel, Prince Lucas comes incognito from Candover to the city in order to attend the University of Crime.  On his first day, he meets Zar-bettu-Zekigal, a Katayan princess and Kings' Memory, follows her through a shortcut in the catacombs, is separated from her and imprisoned by the Order of Guiry, escapes from his cell, meets his landlady Evelian and her daughter Sharlevian, and consults with the White Crow.<br />Zar-bettu-Zekigal goes with the black Rat-Lord Plessiez to a meeting with the Master Falke of the House of Salomon.  While they are talking, Captain-General Desaguliers, a lean black Rat, intrudes on the meeting with his armed cadets, implies that it is a treasonous conspiracy against the Rat-Kings, but allows it to continue.  An agreement is reached just before the Acolytes tear the roof off the hall and starting killing the participants.<br />Casaubon, a Lord Architect and scholar-soldier of the Invisible College, has been summoned to the city to build war machines for the Rat-Kings.  He is surprised and delighted to find the White Crow there, for she is a fellow scholar-soldier and he has been looking for her.<br />This novel is much like Dumas' Three Musketeers tales, but is filled with magic of several flavors.  It is replete with obscure symbolism, political satire, and ineffable purpose.  The author draws upon her studies in history to imbue the story with the proper ambiance and character.  For example, the legal trial and execution of the sow for murder at the very start of the story sets the tone of irrational logic that prevails throughout.<br />The various forms of magic presented in this novel were precursors to the natural science and technology of the 18th century.  In fact, the earliest version of the Royal Society of London was called the Invisible College.  Much of the technology as well as the practice of experimentation had already been developed by alchemists and other students of such magic, so subsequent developments in natural science were mostly on the theoretical side.  During the next century, many plausible explanations for physical phenomena were proven to be false and were replaced with other notions which emerged from the experimental data.<br />Highly recommended for anyone who enjoys fantasies with a historical setting and rationale.	2003-10-03
955312:US	49390985	R3SF9GI487JPXL	0765305224	768895051	Naked Empire (Sword of Truth)	Books	5	10	19	N	N	The Mind is Mighter Than the Sword	Naked Empire is the eighth novel in the Sword of Truth series, following The Pillars of Creation.  In the preceding volume, agents of the Emperor Jagang have convinced two other children of Darken Rahl, Oba and Jennsen, that Richard is trying to kill them and smuggles them out of D'Hara to the Old World.  During an assasination attempt by Oba, Richard discovers that his half-brother has no magic of his own and is not directly effected by magic.  Jennsen is likewise without magic and indifferent to its direct effects.    In this novel, Richard and his party are leaving the Pillars of Creation, a geological feature deep in the desert, after foiling the assassination plot.  They are followed by giant birds, black-tipped races, and Richard is convinced that someone is using the birds to follow them.  During the journey, Richard discovers signs of a magic barrier stretching through the desert and they eventually come to a pass with a giant statue and a message.    Richard has found mention of the Pillars of Creation in an ancient book and learned that the term is used therein to designate people like Oba and Jennsen.  All are descendants of the Lords Rahl and apparently there were once many of them in D'Hara, but these people were banished to the Old World, never to be heard from again.  Richard thinks that he has found them.    Since the Pillars of Creation can neither use nor be effected by magic, they have difficulties believing in it.  In ancient times, these people created a religion that states that all is illusion, thus encouraging peace and tranquility while discouraging competition and strive as well as material progress.  These survivors to the original exiles have continued and expanded this religion.  Then the Imperial Order discovers their location and the Empire knows what to do with pacifists.    In the meantime, Zedd has a nasty surprise when the Wizard's Keep is invaded by men who are invisible to, and uneffected by, his magic.  The Imperial Order captures the Keep, but can they retain it and him.  A few of Zedd's comrades decide to take a hand in his release.    This novel is a story of internal turmoil because of opposing beliefs within Richard, an external struggle with the Pillars and the Empire, and a fight against a deadly poison added to Richard's drink by a  careless supplicant.  It is more philosophical than active, but Richard never hesitates to act as necessary.    Highly recommended for Goodkind fans and anyone else who enjoys sword, sorcery, and philosophy in the same tale.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-10-02
956177:US	49390985	R25H3GXT7SZZAH	0743471431	167240143	Mad Maudlin (Bedlam Bard, Book 6)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Runaways and the Sidhe	Mad Maudlin is the fifth novel in the Bedlam Bard series, following Spirits White as Lightening.  In the previous novel, Eric and the Guardians manage to conjure the spirit of the dying Jeanette into Hosea's banjo.  They also trap the vengeful Aerune in a maze, with the help of a dragon and Jimmy's spirit, cutting the Paranormal Defense Initiative off from their source of magic.  Moreover, Fox finds the means for Kory and Beth to have a child.    In this novel, a child of the Unseleighe runs away to the World Above, pursued by his worried guardian.  Heavenly Grace, the daughter of gospel preacher Billy Fairchild and the secret of his success, runs away and he is determined to get her back.  The teenage son of a proper Cambridge couple runs away to become a rock musician.    In New York, Hosea and Jeanette discover that the youngest street children are telling the Secret Stories about Bloody Mary with more fervor lately, then the Guardians link these stories with a series of mysterious deaths within the city.  Eric is doing so well in therapy that he decides that it is time to confront his parents in Boston and finds out more than he expected: a younger brother.  Some older street children have gathered together around three runaways -- Ace, Magnus and Jaycie -- in the Place;  they follow the rules or Ace will not buy them food and other supplies (with money from Jaycie).  A conman gathers a cadre of gullible people and build up their magical power to assist him in his ambitions.    In Washington, Ria is gathering allies to destroy Parker Wheatly's reputation and organization.  Parker unwittingly helps her by kidnapping a minor wizard to restore his source of magic.    This novel revolves around the search for the runaways in New York.  It involves a mythago, a Prince of the Unseleighe, a conspiracy against the Guardians, and an previously unknown kinsman.  It mostly takes place in New York from the Battery to Mid-town, much of it in the world of the street children.This novel continues the adventures of Eric, the Bedlam Bard, and brings hims new friends and enemies.  It is overflowing in magic, errantry and suspense.  A sequel is forthcoming.    Highly recommended to Lackey and Edghill fans and to anyone else who enjoys urban fantasy.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-10-01
956368:US	49390985	R10UI39HEO3S2I	0688006787	900162782	The Homeward Bounders	Books	5	10	10	N	N	To Return Home Again	The Homeward Bounders is a fantasy novel about a boy lost in the multiverse, doomed to travel from one space/time to another forever.<br />Jamie Hamilton is a rather willful boy who lives with his parents, an older brother, and a younger sister.  One day, as he is exploring the town, he finds a place called The Old Fort.  The building is set on a triangular lot and surrounded by a high wall.  He climbs over the wall and finds a small park.  Strangely, he cannot hear any sounds from the surrounding city.<br />Although he leaves to return home, he is intrigued with the place and soon returns.  This time he tries to enter the building and is caught by two men wearing monkish robes.  He is unable to move as they discuss his trepass, consult others within a huge strange place, and then banish him to become a homebounder.  Now he is constrained to wander between universes, never able to stay at one place for very long.  He meets others in the same situation -- the Flying Dutchman and the Wandering Jew among others -- and exchanges information, but he can't break out of the trap.  He learns that he cannot be killed and that he ages very slowly.  However, only the hope of finding his way home again keeps him somewhat sane.<br />This novel is a quest tale, with Jamie continually searching for his home.  According to what he was told by THEM, he will be free of the homebounder circuit if he only reaches his home space/time.  He travels from world to world, each in a different universe, and many of which are on the verge of war, are having a war, or just completed a war.  Some are completely destroyed.<br />Highly recommended for Jones fans and anyone else who enjoys magical adventures in a realistic ambiance.	2003-10-01
960631:US	49390985	R3O83ME1UVFBHD	044652414X	702775208	A Cavern of Black Ice (Sword of Shadows)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	A new quest	A Cavern of Black Ice is the first novel in the Sword of Shadows series.  This novel is set in the same world as The Book of the Word series, a few years later and further to the north of the four kingdoms.  Bren is the only common point on the two maps.    In this novel, Penthero Iss, the surlord of Spire Vanis, has ambitious plans and his foster daughter, Asarhia March, is an integral part of them.  Sixteen year ago, Ash had been found outside Vaingate within ten paces from the city wall by then Protector-General Iss.  Since such foundlings were traditionally Protector's Trove, Iss brought her within his own household.  Lately she has been troubled by bad dreams, even while awake.    Raif is the second son of Tem Sevrance.  Raif has inherited an unusual talent:  he can heart kill any living thing.  Raif and his older brother Drey are hunting and contesting at archery when Raif feels a powerful shock that blurs his vision and spurts metallic-tasting saliva into his mouth.  Fearing danger to those left behind in the camp, the two hurry back as fast as they can travel.  Easing into the camp, they found none living and only twelve corpses, including the clan chief, Drago Blackhail, and their father Tem.  The adopted son of the chief, Mace Blackhail, is missing.    Elsewhere, the Listener of the Ice Trappers dreams that the One with Reaching Arms has reached out to the darkness.  Angus Lok is preparing for a supply run when a raven comes with a message that changes his plans.  And deep under Spire Vanis lies the Bound One, suffering in the dark.    This novel begins a new quest in fulfillment of prophecies that the questers only discover little by little as they strive for unknown goals and are guided by hidden forces.  Ash finds herself with powers that she doesn't understand and can't control.  Raif discovers that he too has powers, but doesn't know how they are to be used.    This novel sets the stage, leaving much unexplained and introducing new factors at the veryend.  While this book is not as complex as Jordan's Wheel of Time series, it does have something of the same feel.  The author writes vivid descriptions of some very bleak scenery and has a good touch with characterization.  This series should be interesting.    Recommended for Jordan fans and anyone else who enjoys well plotted sword and sorcery adventures with strong characterization.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-09-27
980794:US	49390985	R14WX0XE4O8E1N	0765306336	439488142	A Fortress of Grey Ice: Book Two of Sword of Shadows	Books	5	6	9	N	N	The Stage Is Set	A Fortress of Grey Ice is the second novel in the Sword of Shadows series, following A Cavern of Black Ice.  In the previous volume, Raif and Asarhia are captured by Bludd warriors.  The Dog Lord sends Ash back to her foster father, but Raif is thrown into a cell.  On the way back to Spire Vanis, her escorts decide to rape Ash, but she panics and uses some of her power to kill her attackers.  Raif is freed from captivity by his brother Drey and a band of Hailsmen.  Later he rejoins Ash and they continue their journey northward, but cold, storm and wolves catch them and Ash collapses.  Raif is standing over a dead wolf when two Sull, Mal Naysayer and Ark Veinsplitter, find them and then help them reach the Cavern, where Ash finally discharges her power into the black ice. Unfortunately, her prior use of the power has created a hairline crack in the Blindwall.<br />In this novel, Raif and Ash have been taken to the land of the Ice Trappers.  There they are parted, with Ash continuing on with the Sull.   The Listener of the Ice Trappers treats Raif as a guest and gifts him with an arrow named Divining Rod and the sword of a Forsworn knight.   Although not certain of his proper course, Raif finally decides to head for the Rift and the territory of the Maimed Men.<br />Meanwhile, a very large man escapes from a diamond mine and travels north, following a call from his master and gaining a small dog as a companion.  The Dog Lord frees Angus Lok from his cell, but fails to listen to his warnings.  Marafice One Eye gathers an army and the surlord of Spire Vanis decides where to use it.  Mace Blackhail conspires against the clan he leads and surrounds himself with Scarpemen.  Robbie Dhoone sets out to become a King.<br />Raif learns a song and finds in it a prophecy about himself.  Ash begins the transformation into a Sull.  The Unmade are walking the land and the Taken are beginning to stir.<br />This novel is an exciting read, but probably is a little too long.  As with Jordan's Wheel of Time series, this reader was sometimes overwhelmed by the numerous plotlines and lost track of the action.  Maybe it would have been an even better read if it was somewhat shorter.<br />Highly recommended for Jones fans and anyone else who enjoys epic fantasy with great characterization.	2003-09-10
986318:US	49390985	R3M7KVP9AN0EZL	0345458559	306008616	Tales Before Tolkien: The Roots of Modern Fantasy	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Fairy Tales and Other Fantasies	Tales Before Tolkien is an anthology of fairy tales and other fantasy stories published prior to Tolkien's works.  Some of these authors are known to have influenced Tolkien, but all wrote on themes which Tolkien would probably have admired.  All the authors were chosen to be at least five years older than Tolkien.<br />\\"The Elves\\" by Ludwig Tieck is a \\"literary fairy tale\\" in the German tradition and illustrates the dangers of visiting with fairies.  \\"The Golden Key\\" by George MacDonald is a mystical tale of a boy and a girl who embark on a lifelong quest.  \\"Puss-Cat Mew\\" by E. H. Knatchbull-Hugessen is a story of a young man and a cat against evil ogres and dwarves.  \\"The Griffin and the Minor Canon\\" by Frank R. Stockton is a yarn about the friendship between a clergy man and a monster.  \\"The Demon Pope\\" by Richard Garnett is a tongue in cheek story of Satan and the Sacred College.<br />\\"The Story of Sigurd\\" retold by Andrew Lang is an abbreviated version of the Nibelungenlied.  \\"The Folk of the Mountain Door\\" by William Morris is a mystical tale of a god and goddess attending a naming rite in a Norse-like kingdom.  \\"Black Heart and White Heart\\" by H. Rider Haggard is a story of an English gentleman who tries to steal the lover of a Zulu warrior.  \\"The Dragon Tamers\\" by E. Nesbit describes the trials of a poor dragon who is always outwitted by one family.  \\"The Far Islands\\" by John Buchan tells of a boy whose family is obsessed by the Western Isle.  \\"The Drawn Arrow\\" by Clemence Housman is a story of the gratitude of kings.  \\"The Enchanted Buffalo\\" by L. Frank Baum is a yarn about treachery and revenge in the Royal Tribe of buffalo.  \\"Chu-bu and Sheemish\\" by Lord Dunsany is a fable about jealous gods.  \\"The Baumhoff Explosive\\" by William Hope Hodgson is a cautionary tale about becoming too much like Christ.<br />\\"The Regent of the North\\" by Kenneth Morris is a tale about a Viking who will not forswear his religion for Christianity.  \\"The Coming of the Terror\\" by Arthur Machen is a suspense story about frightening events in England during World War I.  \\"The Elf Trap\\" by Francis Stevens relates the strange experiences of a Professor of Biology who meets a beautiful young lady in the back woods.  \\"The Thin Queen of Elfhame\\" by James Branch Cabell is the story of a man who unintentionally finds true love.  \\"The Woman of the Wood\\" by A. Merritt discloses the murderous actions of a man who loved a coppice.  \\"Golithos the Ogre\\" by E. A. Wyke-Smith tells of the vegetarian ogre who has two plump children as house guests.  \\"The Story of Alwina\\" by Austin Tappan Wright is an excerpt about the history of Queen Alwina of Islandia.  \\"A Christmas Play\\" by David Lindsay recounts the efforts of the fairy Emerald to find husbands for three sisters when there are only two princes available.<br />These stories are representative of the fantastic short stories written prior to Tolkien.  While several are fairy tales, others come from a wide variety of cultural myths.  Many of the authors are well known today, but others are known only to the students of literature.  In any case, these stories are worth reading just for the pleasure of it and, if such reading gives us any insight into Tolkien's works, so much the better.<br />Since these stories span a broad spectrum of treatments, I liked several more the others;  some I didn't much like on first reading.  Since each presents its own emphasis and mood, however, I suspect that my list would differ upon subsequent readings in other circumstances.  Moreover, other readers will probably find themselves liking stories that I didn't much enjoy.<br />Highly recommended to Tolkien fans and anyone else who enjoys short works of fantasy.	2003-09-06
987248:US	49390985	R21QLVNT01II72	0812514319	169591309	The Door into Sunset (The Tale of the Five, Vol 3)	Books	5	6	11	N	N	The White Lion Awakes	The Door Into Sunset (1993) is the third novel in the Tale of Five series, following The Door Into Shadow. In the previous volume, Segnbora loses her sword Charriselm within Glasscastle, but, in return, gains Skadhwe, the shadow blade of Queen Efmaer. Herewiss and Segnbora close Barachael Pass by dropping a mountain on it and then Eftgan and Freelorn shore up the failing Bonds at Bluepeak to hold back the Shadow. There, too, Segnbora finds her Flame, kills all the Fyrds, returns all Reavers and Darthenes to their homes, heals Freelorn's wound, and provides Hasai with a body.    In this novel, Freelorn dreams true about his father and thus returns to Arlen alone from the south. Herewiss and Moris travel to Prydon, the capital of Arlen, as messengers for Queen Eftgan, carrying a declaration of war and showing Herewiss with the Flame. Segnbora and Hasai travel to the dragons to request their assistance. Eftgan and her levies travel to Prydon a short time later to make war.    Freelorn begins to sense the land as he travels through southern Arlen in the disguise of a tinker. He finds mercenary soldiers everywhere, mostly well behaved, but oppressing the countrymen merely by their presence. He also finds a daughter who had been reported as dead and he continues to dream of the white beast.    Herewiss is wined and dined in Prydon, not to mentioned poisoned and attacked in the Lionhall by a keplian. Intrigue is everywhere and very few of the 400 can be trusted, but somehow Herewiss is beginning to trust Cillmod, usurper of the throne. Moreover, the power behind the throne seems to be Rian, a sorcerer who does not believe in the Goddess but instead follows the Shadow.    Segnbora and Hasai meet numerous other dragons, establish Segnbora's claim to dragonhood, and gain admittance to the Dweller, chief among the dragons. However, gaining assistance within the current century is beginning to look problematical.    This novel takes the battle to Arlen. If Freelorn wins the throne, he and Eftgan can fully repair the Bonds. Otherwise, the Shadow wins everything.    In regard to the mass wedding, keep in mind that most of the main characters have known Eftgan for many years and all have fought together and like each other. Since sharing is a social grace, a group marriage would seem to be a logical extension of the Goddess philosophy and, indeed, is shown earlier in the story. Moreover, this marriage is not just personal but also political, joining the rulers of Arlen and Darthen, as well as Brightwood. Thus, it stabilizes the succession, brings the two countries even closer together, and adds a reason for mutual celebration after a hard and bitter time.    Highly recommended for Duane fans and anyone else who enjoys tales of sword and sorcery with great characters and devious machinations.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-09-05
987946:US	49390985	R1XPJKV6SV470K	0312941102	548399660	The Door into Shadow (Epic Tales of the Five)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	To Speak of Dragons	The Door Into Shadow (1984) is the second novel in the Tale of Five series, following The Door Into Fire. In the previous volume, the companions faced the death of their souls within the Hold in the Waste and Herewiss became one with his Flame to protect them. After the soul-eaters are destroyed, Freelorn decides that it is time to return to Arlen to claim the throne.    In this novel, Herewiss has a true dream about the Shadow on the night before leaving the Hold. This dream convinces him that he has to learn to control his Flame immediately, so the companions leave for Morrowfane at first light. There the spirits guide Herewiss in using his Flame. However, Segnbora has another experience at Morrowfane; she finds herself hosting the persona of the dragon Hasai. Moreover, this dragon brings a cloud of other dragon minds with him.    Segnbora finds the dragons deep within her mind. She learns much about their history and purpose and they learn much about her, delving even deeper within her mind and forcing her to confront her fears. Gradually, she becomes a hybrid of human and dragon, speaking with the tongue of dragons and casting a dragon shadow.    The companions join with Eftgan, Queen of Darthen, and her army to face the forces of the Shadow. Thousands of Reavers are pouring out of Barachael Pass and this time they have sorcerers of their own. The companions set out to close the pass.    Highly recommended for Duane fans and anyone else who enjoys tales of sword and sorcery with serious character development.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-09-04
989290:US	49390985	R3T9ZY4GN6WIIT	0312857055	361278280	Wizard's First Rule (Sword of Truth, Book 1)	Books	5	12	17	N	N	A Developing Threat	Wizard's First Rule is the first novel in the Sword of Truth series.  Richard Cypher is having a bad day.  When his father had been killed three weeks previous, a sprig of vine had been left for Richard in the message jar.  He didn't know what it meant, but had been searching for such a vine ever since.  This day he finds it strangling a fir tree in the upper Ven Forest, but it bites him as he tries to tear it off the tree, leaving a thorn burrowing into his hand.  Then something really big and red flies over and shortly thereafter he sees four men stalking a women.<br />Richard intercepts the woman and takes her up a side trail, hiding their tracks.  They climb upward, making as little sound as possible, until they are at the foot of the bluff.  Suddenly, the four men appear, blocking all escape.  The leader tells Richard to leave, but he declares for the woman.  When the four attack, Richard kicks one man off the side of the mountain and delays another, but that man swings on Richard with deadly intent.  Just then, however, the other man attacks Richard's assailant, taking both over the side, and Richard is saved.  Suddenly the fight is over.<br />Afterwards, the woman asks his name and tells him that she is Kahlan.  Richard is puzzled about the outcome of the fight (he was sure that he was going to be killed), but is certain that Kahlan doesn't want to talk about it.  She does tell him that she is from the Midlands on the other side of the sealed boundary.<br />Richard first takes Kahlan to his brother Michael's house, where she meets Chase, a boundary warden and Richard's friend.  They dine later with Michael and Michael makes a pass at Kahlan, which she firmly rebuffs with minimum bloodshed.  After that Richard takes her to meet Zedd.<br />This story is about a war that has been temporarily stalled, but is now about the erupt once more.  Richard learns some interesting things regarding Zedd as well as himself.  And when he accompanies Kahland as she returns tothe Midlands, events began to move quickly.<br />This story is much like Edding's Belgariad series, with a hero hid among the common people and having their friendliness and folk wisdom.  Luckily, Richard has Kahlan and Zedd to advise him, for his tasks are as much political as military. The plot and monsters are very derivative and the writing is very linear, but the story is engrossing and some of the gimmicks are very innovative.  The sexual content is often very hot and not recommended for the younger set.<br />In one respect, the author is lousy at plotting:  each book is generally able to stand alone.  Other than the characters, most of the storylines are tied up neatly at the end of each volume;  no cliff-hangers to be resolved in the next volume.  However, the next threat is always reasonable after the fact, so the threads were there but we failed to notice them.  I am always satisfied after every volume, yet ready to read the next one when it arrives.  What more could you ask?<br />Recommended for Edding's fans and anyone else who enjoys epic fantasy with approachable heroes and perversely evil villains.	2003-09-03
989758:US	49390985	R1RT859281DYG0	0765302705	845366031	Callahan's Con	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A Bureaucrat Finds Her Place	Callahan's Con is the ninth novel in the Callahan's Saloon series, following Callahan's Key. In the previous volume, the Callahan gang saves the universe for the second time and the earth for the third. They find a good use for group telepathy and launch their own missile into space. Jake's daughter Erin demonstrates a certain virtuosity with teleportation.    In this novel, it is ten years later and Jake is confronted with his own worst nightmare, a bureaucrat who can take away his daughter. Everything they try to do to placate Senior Field Inspector Czrjghbczl of the Florida Department of Education backfires; for example, she sees entirely too much of Ralph and Alf and meets Lex the Merman under inauspicious conditions.    Then the gang is confronted with a behemoth of a mobster starting the old protection racket in Key West. While bumping him off would not be difficult, his absence might well raise questions. And the gang definitely doesn't want any questions raised. However, Erin demonstrates her virtuosity with time travel to con Little Nuts into buying the Fountain a Ute for the Five Old Men.    This novel is so zany that it almost makes sense. Drink a little Irish Coffee whenever you begin to regain your reasoning powers and you will finish the story in high style. Although the story ends in sorrow, the Callahan gang will probably return when needed.    Recommended for Robinson fans and anyone else who enjoys fun stories with a modicum of plot.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-09-03
991837:US	49390985	R3V4GUXBVDHZBB	0446528714	603165414	A Forest of Stars: The Saga of Seven Suns Book 2	Books	5	8	11	N	N	New Elements in the War	A Forest of Stars is the second novel in The Saga of Seven Suns series, following The Hidden Empire.  In the previous volume, the Terran Hanseatic League has used technology discovered in ancient ruins of the extinct Klikiss aliens to ignite a giant gas planet, turning it into a sun.  Unknown to the Hansa, however, millions of aliens living within the atmosphere of the planet were vaporized by this Klikiss Torch.  Other Hydrogue aliens then declared war on all surface dwelling sentients, including the Ildirans as well as the Humans, and began destroying their gas mining operations, drastically reducing the production of ekti, the only known fuel for FTL starships.<br />One of the casualties of this war is King Frederick, nominal head of state of the Hanseatic League.  However, the Hansa produces an heir to the deceased monarch and the crown passes to King Peter.  The new King was formerly Raymond Aguerra, an orphan from poor circumstances, who was kidnapped by Hansa operatives and brainwashed to perform as the chief of state.  However, King Peter has discovered that the death of his family was not an accident, but ordered by Basil Wencelas, Chairman of the Hansa, and the new king resists his conditioning.<br />In this novel, five years have past since the Klikiss Torch ignited the Hydrogue war.  King Peter has been subtly maneuvering for a degree of autonomy from Wencelas.  The Chairman is trying to finesse more Green Priests from Theroc, for these priests can communicate instantaneously with each other through worldforest saplings.  The current Father and Mother of Theroc are about to abdicate in favor of their eldest child and he suggests an alliance through marriage to Cesca Peroni, the newly appointed Speaker for the Roamers.  While Cesca loves Jess Tamblyn, they decide that her marriage must promote the best interests of the Roamers.  Meanwhile, Jess' sister Tasia has been promoted within the EDF to command of a Thunderhead Weapons Platform.<br />On Ildira, theplans of the Mage-Imperator are beginning to bear fruit, but he is deadly ill and will soon die.  The Prime Designate, Jora'h, feels humble and unready to succeed his father, but he becomes angry when he is told that Nira, a Green Priest and his lover, has been incorporated into the Human contingent of an ongoing breeding program and that Nira has borne his previously unknown daughter.  Adar Kori'nh, commander of the Ildiran naval forces, is continually irritating the Mage-Imperator with his compassion and interest in the Humans.<br />This novel includes massive destruction of sentients and machines.  Some of the main characters are killed and others are missing in action.  For the most part, the Hydrogues are unstoppable, although the Humans and Ildirans are beginning to inflict some losses on the enemy, but at tremendous cost.  New species of aliens are beginning to appear and the worldforest is beginning to yield additional information on a previous war with the Hydrogues.<br />This novel introduces the concept of elemental aliens;  the Hydrogues represents air and the worldforest is earth.  Now comes aliens who represent the elements of fire and water.  Although this concept does not seem central to the story, it does add a touch of the mystical to the plot.<br />My main criticism of this series is the two-dimensional characters;  that is, they have little or no depth.  While they are not always stereotypes, what you see is what you get.  They change as the plot develops, but only in predictable directions.  The aliens seem more mysterious, but their secrets are mostly part of the plot.  The only main character with some degree of depth is Adar Kori'nh, who always obeys his Mage-Imperator, but does have a few objections every now and then;  Adar obviously has a deepset desire to stop playing safe and just kill a few Hydrogues, no matter how high the cost.<br />This novel moves the plot along very nicely and, of course, terminates just as events are really heating up.  The sequel better not be long delayed or I may implode.<br />Recommended for Anderson fans and anyone else who enjoys large scale space opera, with a seemingly unstoppable enemy and untrustworthy allies.	2003-09-01
994281:US	49390985	R3ETB33L9NCT1R	0345462297	480568301	The Lost Steersman	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Demons in the Inner Lands	The Lost Steersman (2003) is the third novel in the Steerswoman series, following The Outskirter's Secret.  In the preceding volume, Rowan and Bel discover that the wizards are keeping the Outskirts under surveillance.  One of the wizard's agents tells them everything he knows, including information on the upcoming Routine Bioform Clearance.    Rowan and Bel lead the Outskirter tribes in a wild flight to safety.    In this volume, Rowan has returned to the Inner Lands, staying at the Annex in Alemeth in hopes of discovering more information about Slado.  She finds the resident Steerswoman, Mira, to be recently deceased and the Annex left in a confused mess.  While Rowan starts organizing the books into some semblance of order and searching for magic events that are not connected to known wizards, she finds herself being unfavorably compared to Mira.    To her surprise, Rowan also finds Janus, the lost Steersman, residing in Alemath.  He stills insists that he has resigned and that he can't -- or won't -- talk about his experiences.  Janus has been put under the Steerswomen's Ban by Ingrud, a former friend, because of his refusal to answer her questions about what happened to him, but Rowan thinks that she may be able to get him reinstated.  Then the demons show up in Alemeth.    This novel is a worthy successor to the first two tales.  Rowan has to deal with an almost overwhelming string of new experiences that run counter to her own beliefs.  We are kept in suspense to the end of the tale (which had better have a sequel) and are shown first hand why Rowan is a good Steerswoman.    I have only one peeve about this story:  the lack of romantic interest.  Will Rowan ever find, and keep, a man or woman to become her partner?  She finds plenty of people who could be close friends, but always falls for the wrong man, and she keeps being separated from Bel, who has rapidly become her closest friend.    Recommended for Kirstein fans -- who have long awaited it -- and for anyone else who enjoys tales of exotic societies, alien plants and animals, and a restless urge to see the other side of the hill.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-08-30
1003079:US	49390985	RADTZC24I5056	0312941072	548399660	The Door into Fire: Tale of the Five Volume 1	Books	5	20	20	N	N	In Quest of a Focus	The Door Into Fire (1979) is the first novel in the Tale of Five series. Herewiss is the heir to the Brightwood, a principality within the Kingdom of Darthen. Herewiss has the potential to be the first male in centuries to use the Power of the Flame; the fire is within him, but cannot be expressed in any meaningful way without a Focus.    While training with the Rodmistresses, he has tried various forms of Rods as his Focus, but they all burst. Then he tried swords of wood, ivory and bone, but they all burst. Finally, he tries to imbue steel swords with a form of pseudolife, but even they all burst.    In this novel, Herewiss is working on yet another steel sword in the smithy that he has constructed in his bedroom when he receives a message via pigeon that Freelorn, his loved, and his small band have been trapped by a thousand or more armed men in an old keep south of Madeil. Freelorn wants him to come and use his sorcery to save them once again. After getting permission from Hearn, his father and Lord of Brightwater, Herewiss leaves to rescue Freelorn. He rides out on Dapple, who has been blessed with the talent of being at the right place at the right time, but finds another mount at a wayside shelter during a torrential thunderstorm.     Sunspark is a fire elemental in the form of a red horse with a golden mane. Since it is newly come to the planet, Sunspark spends too much time absorbing the energy from a brush fire and the rainstorm catches it away from shelter. The water is gradually eating away its energy, but it hears Herewiss calling and almost reaches the shelter before it is unable to move anymore. However, Herewiss and Dapple carry and drag it out of the rain, where it soon recovers.    This novel is a tale of adventure and character development. Both Herewiss and Freelorn mature during this novel. Segnbora, another one frustrated by an almost inexpressible Flame, exhibits some changes that might blossom later in this series. However, the major changesoccur in Sunspark, the energy being who knows nothing about humanity but is very curious.    This novel expresses a philosophy of Life that underlies every aspect of the story: the only way to cheat death is to maximize Life and Love in all its forms. When he has his epiphany, Herewiss finds that he is just a small part of the Life that permeates the Universe. This worldview also underlies the Young Wizards series.    This novel incorporates a variant of the Triple Goddess religion as the major spiritual influence; in fact, the Mother and the Maiden play a significant part in the story. This religion promotes various forms of sexual experiences, of which heterosexual sex is special only in that it produces offspring. The Goddess herself has Twin Lovers, her own children by parthenogenesis, who are originally both male, but who die and return, sometimes as male and sometimes as female.    Other aspects of the story show a definite Irish influence, but one that antecedes the Celtic infusion. The Fyrd, the aboriginal fauna in the Middle Kingdoms, include horwolves, nadders, and keplians. However, there were no Sidhe nor any other sentients occupying the land prior to the coming of the humans.    This series is being republished after being long out of print. The Door Into Fire and The Door Into Shadow were issued as an omnibus edition in 2002 (see The Sword and the Dragon) and the other two (including the hereto unpublished The Door Into Starlight) are scheduled to be released in 2004 (or later).    Highly recommended for Duane fans and anyone else who enjoys tales of sword and sorcery with some serious character development.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-08-22
1005267:US	49390985	RXGKEIWHQFSV9	0765302594	991505440	The Dragon of Despair (Wolf)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Returns and Confrontations	The Dragon of Despair (2003) is the third novel in the Firekeeper series, following Wolf's Head, Wolf's Heart. In the previous volume, Firekeeper and her companions had traveled to New Kelvin to confiscate three magical artifacts taken there by Lady Melina Shield in collusion with agents of the Isles. At least one of the artifacts, a mirror, had exhibited powerful properties and King Tedric had no desire to allow Melina, or anyone else, to acquire such powers. The Hawk Haven party managed to steal the articles with the help of Grateful Peace, a high official in the New Kelvin government, and Firekeeper then carried the items to the Royal Beasts for proper disposition.    In this novel, Hawk Haven learns that Melina has married the Healed One, the hereditary Chief of State of the New Kelvin government. Nobody knows what her intentions are nor how much authority she has in New Kelvin. Even Grateful Peace, who is now living in exile within Hawk Haven, is uncertain about her position, especially since Melina has certain powers to influence the thoughts of others. Consulting his heirs and councilors, King Tedric decides to send a party to New Kelvin under the pretext of establishing trade relations, a party that will consist basically of the persons who gone on the previous mission to New Kelvin, including Firekeeper, Derin Carter, Elise Archer, Sir Jedred Norwood, Edlin Norwood, Wendee Jay, and Elise's maidservant Ninette. When Grateful Peace volunteers to accompany them, he is added to the party in the disguise of a local guide.    Melina's daughter Citrine has become very disturbed by events that occurred while she has held hostage by the pirates and then subsequently abandoned by her mother. Moreover, attempts to break the possessive bond placed on Citrine by Melina have failed. Now the healers have suggested that Citrine's only hope of recovery is to confront her mother, so Citrine is added to the party in disguise as the guide's son.    During this time, another problem is found west of the mountains. A fairly large grouped of pioneers have established a new colony. They have settled on the same ground as Prince Barden's colony and have even named the budding town Bardenville. The Royal Beasts are not pleased and have requested King Tedric, through Firekeeper, to dismantle the town and remove the settlers.    This novel delves deeper into the people and politics of Hawk Haven and New Kelvin. It also explains more about the days when the fire plague killed so many magic users and the remaining colonists were abandoned by their mother countries. In particular, the author shows how many of the customs and governmental institutions in New Kelvin were shaped by the first Healed One, the only magic user to survive the plague, and his expectations that the homeland would soon re-establish control of the colony.    Highly recommended for Lindskold fans and anyone else who enjoys tales of exotic cultures and strange magics.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-08-20
1007526:US	49390985	RVC37825SH4JE	0345448944	854576175	The Gates of Dawn (The Chronicles of Blood and Stone, Book 2)	Books	4	4	9	N	N	An Ancient Threat from Beyond the Grave	The Gates of Dawn is the second novel in The Chronicles of Blood and Stone series, following The Fifth Sorceress.  In the previous volume, Tristan escaped from the Communion ritual, leaving three of the Coven dead and Succiu, the Second Mistress, greatly weakened from bloodloss.  Rather than surrendering to Tristan, however, Succiu leapt from the tower and killed both herself and the unborn child within her.  Tristan excised his unborn son and buried him there outside the Recluse.<br />The violence of the ritual left Shailiha confused and crying yet unhurt, but Wigg was not certain whether she would ever fully recover from the ordeal of the Agonies.  Geldon found a wagon to carry Shailiha and they charged down the road toward the Ghetto of the Shunned, trying to reach the portal leading to home before High Noon.  However, they encountered the Minions of Day and Night in the Ghetto and Tristan fought a death duel with Kluge.  When Tristan won, the Minions transfered their loyalty to him, so he left Traax in charge, taskng him with a very different mission, and rushed through the portal.<br />In this novel, Tristan and the others are hiding in the Redoubt beneath the Palace.  Wigg has been treating Shailiha for the damage done by the Agonies;  she has almost fully recovered and her daughter Morganna is doing well.  However, the overall situation in Eutracia is tumultuous.  Geldon discovers that a huge reward has been offered for Tristan, dead or alive.  The only consul to return to the Redoubt, Joshua, brings word that the consuls are being hunted by magical bird-like beings as well as by bloodstalkers and harpies.  Tristan finds a mysterious woman praying at the gravesite of his parents.  And Faegan keeps remembering lines from the Tome referring to a \\"child\\".<br />Tristan is faced with another conspiracy headed by a child gifted with endowed blood, a wizard who is partially changed into a bloodstalker, and an assassin with poison-tipped weapons.  The Paragon is slowly losing its potency and the powers of the wizards, which come from the stone, are also declining.  Moreover, their every action seems to be forestalled by their enemies.<br />This novel has the same action orientation as the first volume, but the plot flows smoother and scene changes occur less abruptly.  The twists and turns are surprises, but carefully foreboded by prior happenings.  The actions of the main characters are much more compatible with their personalities and experiences.  Even the copyediting has improved.  Overall, this volume is an great improvement over the first, providing a better setting for the creative aspects of the author.<br />Recommended for Newcomb fans and anyone else who enjoys swords and sorcery with an innovative approach.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2003-08-18
1009335:US	49390985	R1WRAPGF255EYE	0812545303	450247323	Necromancer (Childe Cycle)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	A Bridge to the Dorsai	Necromancer is the second published novel in the Childe Cycle, following Dorsai!, but is actually the first volume in internal chronology among the published works. This novel was intended as a bridge between the projected (but never published) historic volumes in the Cycle and the near future novels of the Dorsai series.    In this novel, Paul Formain is a mining engineer who has an accident that tears off his left arm. Although he has regeneration treatments, the arm does not grow back. He is told that the problem is purely psychological, so he consults a therapist, but only learns something that he already knows: he is unusually resistant to hypnosis.    Taking another approach to the problem, Paul tries the Chantry Guild, an organization created by Walter Blunt after being the only survivor of a hunting party caught by a freak early-winter blizzard. While the others died of exposure, Walter walked out to shelter wearing only the lightest of hunting clothes and arrived warm and rested. Chantry Guild literature claimed successful regrowth of missing limbs even in the treatment of resistant individuals. Paul meets with Jason Warren, the Guild Secretary, and is provisionally accepted in the Guild. He finds the training to be weird, but effective, and becomes a Necromancer.    This novel shows Paul developing certain skills in the Alternate Laws, but otherwise seems to lack any forward movement. The reason for his passivity is implied by the continued concern over a sailing episode five years before. Paul had been caught in a small sailboat by a severe storm and nearly died of exposure, much as Blunt had come close to death. Paul has a continuing vision of dying in that boat. At the end of the book, Paul visits a body wrapped in chains far below the surface of the ocean near the location where he had been rescued; this scene will be shown again in other stories in this series.    The author exhibits an intense interest in hysterical strength and other superhuman phenomena. This interest is reflected in his other works, but is central to the Childe Cycle. The author often pairs such extraordinary skills with a strong sense of responsibility and an unrelenting perseverence.    The pivotal character in the Child Cycle is Donal Graeme, the \\"genetic general\\" who has the main role in the Dorsai! novel. Donal has the ability to see the future ... and the past. Moreover, he has other abilities that he keeps concealed from most people.    This novel sets up the interstellar political situation in The Tactics of Mistake, the next novel in internal sequence. It depicts the initial separation of the Exotic and the Friendly Splinter Cultures from the mainstream of humanity. The origin of the Dorsai Culture is described in the next volume.    Highly recommended for Dickson fans and for anyone else who is interested in the evolution of mass movements, cultural differentiation, and the role of individuals within society.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-08-16
1009857:US	49390985	RAMDI852XYQDL	0060523182	655483804	The Merlin Conspiracy	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Tale of Magids and Dragons	The Merlin Conspiracy (2003) is a fantasy novel about the Islands of Blest, an equivalent of the British Isles in another timeline. Roddy and Grundo are two children of the Court who travel in the King's Progress. They live in buses and move frequently. They hardly ever get to stay in real buildings and sometimes they have to use the drafty bathtent for their showers. Worse yet, Roddy and Grundo are the only mages in their age group at Court.    Roddy's father is the Court Weather Wizard and her mother works in the exchequer keeping track of the King's money. Grundo's mother is the Court Earthmistress and she favors her daughter, Alicia, over Grundo; only Sybil knows who is the father of Grundo and Alicia. Roddy and Grundo began to notice something unusual going on after the death of the current Merlin. Then Roddy's maternal grandfather sends a car around to bring the two for a visit and the Court has moved on elsewhere they return.    Nick is the foster son of Ted Mallory, a writer of horror stories, and the former heir of the Koryfonic empire... He is a typically self-centered teenaged boy who is convinced to accompany his foster father to a convention of mystery writers. There he is bumped across the timelines to one where the English Empire covers most of Europe. He appears within a group of people near a flier and is assumed to be an apprentice who is late for an assignment with an Imperial security mage unit. At first he thinks he is dreaming and then he is afraid that he is not.    Roddy and Grundo meet Nick on a dark path between timelines and Nick sort of agrees to come to Blest to help them solve their problem. However, he has a few problems of his own to solve and several unexpected encounters to survive.    This novel is one of the author's Magid stories. The Magid in this tale turns out to be one of the unexpected encounters during Nick's path through the timelines. However, the Magid does add a touch of stability as well as bringing Nick together withRoddy and Grundo. Of course, there are also the panther, the elephant, the goat, and the white and red dragons.    Recommended for Jones fans and anyone else who enjoys zany, action-filled tales of magic and intrigue.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-08-16
1011531:US	49390985	R2RXD9I2TZ8GF7	0898651654	78434818	They'd Rather Be Right (Starblaze Editions)	Books	5	22	24	N	N	A Parable of Correctness	They'd Rather Be Right is a science fiction novel about Bossy, a cybernetic marvel, and the men who insist on building her.  Professors Billings and Hoskins are academics who have designed a synthetic brain.  If provided with the correct facts about a problem, Bossy produces the optimal solution, without fear or favor.  To the horror and confusion of the professors, they find themselves hounded and hated by every kind of fanatic and even the man on the street.  Now they are on the most wanted list, the Feds are after them, and only Joe Carter stands between them and prison.<br />Joe is a telepath.  He can read minds and, with some effort, can even slightly influence the thinking of other minds, but he pays a somatic price for using his talents.  He has helped the fugitives to elude the Feds on several occasions, but now they need to find a long-term hideout to rebuild Bossy.  Joe selects the house of a former prostitute, Mabel Monohan, in the sleazy section of town.  They settle in and, with a little larcenous help from Doc Carney, a former practicing mentalist, they acquire the necessary materiel.<br />Originally published in Astounding in 1954, much of the writing appears dated as compared to contemporary works.  The technology is typical of SF stories of that time, less than ten years prior to the invention of the transistor;  thus, the computers were based on soon to be obsolete technology ... just like today.  Don't let the vacuum tubes, switches and delay lines turn you off, however, for this story is not about technology at all.  It is about the nature of people, a subject that doesn't seem to change much across the eons.<br />It seems Bossy can make people young again.  The subject is attached to the machine with numerous wires, sensors and emitters, then the synthetic brain interacts with the human brain to eliminate incorrect thinking.  By some type of psychosomatic effect, the rectified brain causes the body to rejuvenate from the cells on up.  After Mabel, the first subject, is treated and rejuvenated, the professors find themselves wanted in a different way.  However, everybody soon discovers that there is a price to pay for restored youth.<br />This novel produced a sensation among SF fandom, not for its writing style or characterization, but for what it had to say.  As with Heinlein, people read the senior author for ideas as well as plot, characters, and other technical issues.  The author has had a disportionate influence on the field considering his small quantity of works.  However, such ideas soon become part of the canon and thus are now considered obvious and trivial.<br />Clifton has produced two other SF novels in addition to various shorter works;  the other novels are also morality tales of sorts.  Insofar as I am aware, Riley has not written any other SF novels, but has written shorter works.<br />Highly recommended for Clifton fans and anyone else who enjoys parables of human foibles.	2003-08-14
1013512:US	49390985	R1AT6PIHSVNKPF	1892065517	29780555	Tale Of The Five: The Sword And The Dragon	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A Quest of Power and Shadow	The Sword and the Dragon (1993) is an omnibus edition of the first two novels in the Tale of the Five series. It includes The Door Into Fire and The Door into Shadow. Herewiss is the heir to the Brightwood, a principality within the Kingdom of Darthen. Freelorn is his loved, the uncrowned king of Arlen. Segnbora is a scion of the forty families and a powerful sorceress whose power is blocked, but who speaks with the tongue of dragons.    In The Door Into Fire, Herewiss is the first male in centuries who is capable of using the Power of Flame. However, the fire within him will not express itself in any useful way without a focus and his every attempt to use Rods and swords as focuses have destroyed the objects. When Freelorn sends a message asking for his help, he puts his quest aside for a while and rides to the rescue.    In The Door Into Shadow, Herewiss has found his focus, but he has a true dream that the Shadow is very angry and is going to lean heavily on the Royal Bindings keeping him in check. Since these bindings have worn thin, the Shadow could well escape. Herewiss knows that he must journey to the Morrowfane to master his Power, despite the dangers to his mind and person. Freelorn, Segnbora and the others ride with him.    This omnibus edition brings these two novels back into print after a long absence. Recommended for all Duane fans and anyone else who enjoys well-crafted tales of powerful magic and strange cultures.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-08-12
1016149:US	49390985	R3X0NSRW7VSGW	0812511751	328750600	The Elvenbane (Halfblood Chronicles, Bk. 1)	Books	5	35	36	N	N	A Child of Prophecy	The Elvenbane (1991) is the first novel in the Halfblood Chronicles.  The Elves are aliens from elsewhere.  They are long-lived and have great magics and, long ago, they conquered Earth.  Now the humans wear slave collars and take orders from Elven overseers.  The Elves and humans can interbreed;  the resulting child usually has Elven magic and the mind powers of the humans.  These halfblood Wizards are reluctant to obey the Elven Lords and eventually rebelled in the Wizard's War.  Ever since, it has been a killing offense for a human to become pregnant by an Elf.    The Elves and humans unknowingly share the planet with the dragons, who came during the Wizard's War.  Dragons are shapeshifters and their shamans have the power of mind speaking and reading the thoughts of others.  They can also play with the lightning and create gates between worlds.  The dragons despise the Elven Lords and cause confusion and anger whenever they can.  One of their favorite ploys is to spread the prophecy of the Elvenbane, a halfblood who will free the human from Elven tyranny.    In this novel, Alamarana is a shaman and pregnant.  She is traveling across the world, shifting her shape and becoming one with the planet.  For a while, she impersonates an Elven maid and leads an Elven Lord into a marriage agreement just before she vanishes from his manor.  Then, as she is meditating in a body of stone, a human slave, also pregnant, literally stumbles across her.  Serina Daeth had been the chief concubine of Lord Dyran, but another concubine managed to make Serina fertile with the Elven Lord and so now she is fleeing for her life.    Alara almost abandons Serina in the desert, but decides to help deliver the child.  When the mother bleeds to death, Alara takes the girl child home with her.  Seeing the baby, all the dragons of her lair start to argue and complain.  The infant is too noisy, she is too smelly, and she is ugly, but Alara is determined to keep the child.  Moments later, she goes into contractions herself.    Alara's son, Keman, thinks the infant is kind of cute.  He is the type of dragon child who brings pets home with him and the human baby looks to be another pet, yet so small and feeble.  When his mother goes into labor, Keman takes the child home and puts her in the pen with Hoppy, his three-legged two-horn, who soon includes the human in her nursing brood.    Keman names the baby Lashana, which is \\"orphan\\" in Elvish, but since she is so little, he shortens the name to Shana.  Since his mother is very busy with his baby sister, Keman takes over the care of this little human.  He makes her a shift of his own shed skin to protect her tender skin.  He starts teaching her to talk, refusing to just speak mind-to-mind.  He soon learns how hard work there is in being a mother.    This novel is about family, fate, and freedom.  As with most of both authors' stories, this tales features characters who persevere in their struggle against hardship and injustice.  Moreover, it contains alien characters who defy there own kind to help win the struggle.    Recommended for Norton and Lackey fans and anyone else who enjoys tales  of strange powers, friendly dragons and righteous conflict.	2003-08-10
1017629:US	49390985	R2EY2QID15E61V	0441001793	391457608	Igniting the Reaches	Books	4	2	2	N	N	For God and Country	Igniting the Reaches (1994) is the SF first novel in the Privateer series. In the far future, humans have spread throughout a great volume of space. But then came the Collapse and mankind lost contact with the farthest worlds. Now mankind is beginning a new age of expansion into the galaxy, re-discovering lost worlds, races and treasures. The Feds and Southerns are becoming rich from new colonies and trading posts among the stars and other nations have sent out trading ships to gain some of these riches.    In this novel, the Venusian settlers have funded a voyage of trade and exploration. The Sultan is a privately armed ship commanded by Captain Choransky. The flotilla also includes the Preakness and the Dove. Stephen Gregg is aboard the Sultan as supercargo, representing his uncle, Gregg of Weyston. Their first port-of-call is Salute ... at least, they think it is Salute.     Piet Recimer, an officer and former shipowner, takes down a crew in the cutter to investigate and finds two Southern Cross ships on the ground, so the flotilla is brought down near the spaceport. Trucks are offloaded from the ships, filled with armed men, and rushed down to the port. There they find that everybody has run away, except for one man who apparently slept through the evacuation.     Loading 98 Molts, an alien race that moved into human space after the collapse, on their ships, the Venusians take off for Virginia (or somewhere near it) to sell their cargo. There they run into a bit of shooting with the North American Federation colony.    This novel is based on the voyages of Francis Drake (and some of his contemporaries). It has the same emphasis on God and Country, the same makeshift technology of shipbuilding, navigation and weaponry, and the same ignorance and cruelty found in the originals. It also reflects the casual attitudes of the Elizabethan era toward slavery. Some of the parallels are rather strained, but the focus of the story is the men themselves, bringing to life the excitement and confusion that resulted from mankind expanding into a mostly unknown frontier.    Recommended for Drake fans and anyone else who enjoys tales of long voyages to strange lands.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-08-09
1018984:US	49390985	R17B93AMZB1A3D	0671878816	396963123	With the Lightnings	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Pity Their Enemies	With the Lightnings is the first novel in the Leary, RCN, series.  Lieutenant Daniel Leary is an officer on the Republic of Cinnabar Navy ship Aglaia with no money and no prospects.  Adele Mundy is a scholar and librarian with no money and no prospects.<br /><br />In this novel, they meet on Kostroma in the Elector's Library, which is under Adele's supervision.  They recognize each other as fellow bibliophiles.  She is trying to get the palace carpenters to put up some simple shelves for the stored books and other items, but having little luck in getting across her needs, so Daniel offers to provide her with assistance from his ship's crew.  They begin to strike up a friendship ... until Adele discovers that Daniel's father is Speaker Corder Leary.  She then snubs Daniel and he leaves fluming with anger.<br /><br />Later, Daniel learns that she is a Mundy of Chatsworth, whose family was all shot as conspirators by order of Daniel's father.  He rounds up a work party from the ship and takes them to the Elector's library to assist Adele in putting up the shelves.  He provides his card in case that she would want to have a friend call on him to arrange the details of their duel, but she realizes that Daniel had nothing to do with the death of her family, he being only seven years old at the time, and releases her anger.  The petty officer over the detail takes crew, carpenters, and library assistants in charge and starts them building shelves with no more nonsense.<br /><br />This novel features some interesting characterization, particularly of Adele, who is a strong-willed woman much like Honor Harrington, even to her expertise with a dueling pistol.  However, she is not a leader of men (or women), but rather is an expert and advisor.  Daniel is the leader in this story, fitted for this role by both training and talent.  The plot is fairly obvious (the shooting begins a little later in the tale), but is fast, furious and fun.  What Adele can do with a data terminal is just short of miracleous and, after the onset of the invasion, she applies this expertise for the RCN Aglaia.<br /><br />The next installment in this series is [[ASIN:0671319922 Lt Leary, Commanding]].<br /><br />Recommended for Drake fans and anyone else who enjoys spatial combat tales with likeable characters.<br /><br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2003-08-08
1019981:US	49390985	RBWBR5UNTEXNE	0451459261	95733157	Blade Dancer	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A Clan of Her Own	Blade Dancer is a novel set in the same universe as the Stardoc series, but with a different set of characters.  Jory Rask is a championship caliber shockball runback whose mother is Jorenian and father is Terran.  After receiving an urgent message from her mother, Jory returns home to find her mother dead of chicken pox.  Since they are both on Terra illegally, Jory buries her mother in the desert, but is caught by Planetary Residental Commission agents and deported.<br />After departing Terra, Jory bribes the Captain of the liner to take her as close as possible to Jorenian territory.  She meets an Alliance Major on the liner who has the tools and skills to repair her damaged knee prothesis.  She leaves the liner at a Rilken outpost and takes passage on a system trade ship, where she meets Black  and Blurry, a blade dancer, and gets an invitation to visit Reytalon for blade dancer training, but she first must go to Joren.<br />Jory has a mission to fulfill on Joren.  She has promised her mother to tell her story to the other six ClanChildren of Honor.  Then she will be free to find her father and kill him.<br />This novel is written in the same style as the Stardoc tales, but covers a different aspect of Jorenian culture.  It is action oriented, depends too much on coincidence, and is fairly predictable, but the story gains and retains the reader's interest throughout the book.<br />Recommended for Viehl fans and anyone else who enjoys action and adventure in a SF setting.	2003-08-07
1021414:US	49390985	R1HZHH0A3R4DJY	0441010113	913252418	In the Forests of Serre (Mckillip, Patricia a)	Books	5	29	32	N	N	The Prince and the Firebird	In the Forests of Serre is a fantasy novel with a Slavic style.  Prince Ronan has lost his wife and child and, after burning their bodies on the funeral byre and scattering their ashes in the river, he has ridden away to war with rebels in southern Serre, hoping to die in battle.  His father, King Fergus, sends a messenger and a troop of soldiers to order him to come home.  Ronan obeys his father, returning with the wounded warriors and escorted by the troop of soldiers.  As he crosses a wasteland, his horse steps on a white hen.  Ronan is soon made aware by the witch Brume that the crushed bird is hers and she bids him to pluck the chicken for her pot and invites him and his companion to enter her house and drink the broth.  Ronan refuses her bidding and invitation three times and is then informed that he will have a bad day.<br />When Ronan reaches his home, the king wastes no time telling him that he will marry Princess Sidonie in four days.  Although Ronan tries to demur from this wedding, saying that he is still grieving his lost wife and child, the king refuses to delay the wedding and, when Ronan continues to deny his command, the king puts Ronan under guard prior to the ceremony.  Ronan's mother is sympathetic but is powerless to change the king's plans.<br />While Ronan is in his guarded room, he sees the Firebird in the forest and hears her singing.  Ronan leaves his room, walks down the staircase and, while the guards are following him at a slower pace, slips out of the castle gates and down the cliff to the forest.  There he follows the Firebird, running and running, then standing still to watch and listen, and then running again.  He is soon lost in the woods, enthralled by the beauty and song of the Firebird.  As he follows, the prince is asked by various distressed animals to help them with their troubles, which he does in an absent-minded way. <br />In Dacia, Princess Sidonie is told of the impending marriage and runs to Unciel, a formerly powerful wizard, to convince him to urge her father to change his mind.  The king is relentless, however, and soon persuades Sidonie and Unciel that the marriage must occur to preclude an invasion of Dacia by King Fergus.  Unciel suggests that a wizard should accompany the marriage party to protect against the wild magic of Serre.  He is still too weak and powerless from a long and strenuous battle against a mighty foe to provide such protection, but he calls upon the wizard Gyre, who owes him a favor, to accompany Sidonie's party.<br />After many long and hard weeks of travel, Princess Sidonie and her escorts finally enter the forests of Serre.  While playing with her bow and arrows in the forest, Sidonie comes upon a wild and ragged looking man following the Firebird.  She talks to the confused and somewhat incoherent man for a while and gives her bow to him as he starts to run after the Firebird.  When they reach the Castle in Serre, Sidonie soon determines that the deshelved man must have been Prince Ronan.<br />This novel is a story of wizards and witches, princes and princesses, kindness and cruelty, and warm passion versus cold intellect.  The witch Brume is devious, but can sometimes be fooled.  King Fergus is powerful and determined, but has only limited perception.  The story is full of light and mystery and ends with a hint of still other secrets not quite seen.<br />Highly recommended for McKillip fans and anyone else who enjoys adult fairy tales written with a light and fanciful touch.	2003-08-06
1022018:US	49390985	RNSZGM5WO9VJW	0553583336	17946578	The Gates of Winter (The Last Rune, Book 5)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Final Battle	The Gates of Winter is the fifth novel in The Last Rune series, following Blood of Mystery. In the previous volume, Travis, Durge, Lirith and Sareth have been hurled into the past of Earth, but return to Eldh to reach the Black Tower and then come forward through time to their proper milieu. Grace, Beltan, Vani, and Falken also travel to the Black Tower, at first in the White Ship and then by foot. All find the tower aswarm with feydrim and each witnesses a large man in black stabbing the mysterious messenger Sky, taking a runestone from Sky's robes, and then vanishing through a wall of the tower. Shortly thereafter, Tira appears on the tower doorstep with Krondisar, the Stone of Fire, and presents it to Travis, the Runebreaker.    In this novel, Master Larad -- runespeaker, outcast, traitor -- meets with Shemal and is given the power to break runes. Deidre Falling Hawk and Hadrian Farr are welcomed back by the Seekers and promoted, but Farr subsequently disappears on a mission of his own. Grace, Durge, Travis, Beltan, Vani, Falken, Lirith and Sareth return to Calavere, still accompanied by the little girl -- and goddess -- Tira. Grace and her party are greeted by explosions that destroy two towers and open a large breech in the wall. Apparently Duratek has reached Calavere before them.    The time of conflict is nearly upon them. King Boreas calls the Warriors of Vathris to muster and to follow Grace, heir of King Uther and holder of Fellring reforged, in the Final Battle against the minions of the Pale King. The witches begin to gather to oppose the Warriors, but some covens pledge themselves to Grace and thus to support the Runebreaker. Travis feels that he would be more effective opposing Duratek's efforts to bridge the gap between the worlds and returns to Denver with his Stones to look for, and destroy, their gate.    This novel brings Grace to a confrontation with her heritage as she faces the Pale King. It also brings Travis to a realization of his role as the Runebreaker. However, it is not the end of the story, for The First Stone has yet to come.    Highly recommended for Anthony fans and anyone else who enjoys complex tales of sword and sorcery.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-08-05
1026144:US	49390985	R1JEQWQP8K5VFI	0743436040	780429865	Hell's Faire (Posleen War Series #4)	Books	5	30	34	N	N	The Rest of the Story	Hell's Faire (2003) is the fourth novel in the Legacy of the Aldenata series, following When the Devil Dances. In the previous volume, the Posleen have begun their main assault, overcoming all fixed defenses everywhere in the world except the eastern United States and Canada. Their drive to Asheville through Rabun Gap has been stopped temporarily by a nuclear bombardment. There is a short lull in the fighting as both sides reorganize and refit.    In this novel, Mike O'Neal and his 555th Mobile Infantry are inserted into Rabun Gap to prepare for the upcoming Posleen assault. However, Tulo'stenaloor, senior Posleen commander in the forces attacking the Gap, has learned a little about the human method of warfare and sets up an ambush for the 555th.     Mike's daughter, Callie O'Neal, is alone in Cache 4 on the O'Neal farm. Mike's father had been caught on the surface during the nuke blasts and, when Callie found him, his body was cold and buried under the debris. Now Callie prepares to leave the farm, but just then the defense forces drop a salvo of strategic nukes on three passes near Mountain City. Since things are a little hectic outside, she decides to wait a while before venturing out.    Sergeant Major Mosovich and the refugees are only a few miles from Cache 4, but are cut off from the defending forces. Moreover, his AID advises them that the nukes are incoming. They have been running the ridgelines, but these are too exposed with nuclear blasts on the way. Jake leads his party back to Cache 4.    Meanwhile, the maintenance brigade for Sheva Nine -- Bun-Bun -- has finally caught up to the monster weapon. They bring with them Paul Kilzer, one of the designers of the Sheva gun platform. He has a few ideas for enhancing the weapon. Moreover, he looks like Riff in the Sluggy Freelance cartoons.    BTW, some reviewers have referred to Bun-Bun as a supertank. On the contrary, the Sheva Nine is a lightly armored self-propelled gun, with very poor mobility. The weathershield is not an armored turret, but rather a relatively thin screen to keep out rain and small-arms fire. Notice that the heavier Posleen weapons have little trouble penetrating the weather shield or even the hull itself. The Shevas were originally designed to kill Posleen landers and C-decs, which they do quite handily. Anti-personnel actions became possible only with the addition of the MetalStorm turrets. Even then, Bun-Bun would not have survived close contact with the Posleen without her escorts (and the oversized Claymores).    Back on the campus, Dr. Miguel Castanuelo, a graduate of Georgia Tech who is now a professor at arch-rival UT at Knoxville, is an expert on micro-containment of anti-matter. He has been trying to devise a way to use anti-matter as a fuel for cars, trucks and other small vehicles. After studying the Indowy methods of containment, he concludes that it is a religious thing and returns to his previous notions. He manages to develop a process of encapsulation in bucky balls, but the results are rather radioactive for several days afterwards. Of course, this isn't a problem with an area denial weapon, so he produces a big orange surprise for the Posleen.    This novel is a continuation of the previous volume. In fact, it would have been incorporated into When the Devil Dances except for the events surrounding 9/11. Although the author is apologetic about the lapse in his writing that caused this portion to be delayed, the final results may have been even better than the originally planned trilogy. This volume contains 330 pages (including the Sluggy Freelance cartoons) and the previous volume contains 494 pages. Even eliminating the backstory verbiage, the combined volume would be larger than some of the Wheel of Time books. My guess is that the paperback would have been split into two volumes anyway.    This volume ends the Legacy of the Aldenata series for now. The author mentions further tales about the backstory and other aspects of theevents and characters in this series, but the Posleen invasion is terminated.     Highly recommended for Ringo fans and anyone else who enjoys military science fiction with the ring of authenticity. New readers, however, are strongly encouraged to start with A Hymn Before Battle to get the full effect.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-08-02
1028870:US	49390985	RV70ZMUUHPGN3	038079439X	431533232	Expendable (League of Peoples, Bk. 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Planet of No Return	Expendable is the first novel in the League of Peoples series.  Festina Ramos is an Explorer, a first-in specialist, who is used to check out unknown worlds;  the Explorers call themselves Expendable Crew Members.  Ramos has a port-wine colored birthmark covering the right side of her face;  in a society that demands perfect appearance, she is an anomaly.  Most Explorers have such imperfections;  the Explorer Corps is the wastebin of humanity.<br />The League of Peoples have imposed bans on Terrans and other peoples within their jurisdiction.  The most dramatic is the ban against the interstellar transportation of persons who have committed homicide.  Such people just die as soon as their ship goes into interstellar space and so does everybody who assisted in their transport.  Their attitude is:  kill each other as much as you desire, but don't export the killers.<br />In this novel, Festina and Yarrun Derigha, her subordinate, are ordered to accompany Admiral Chee to the surface of Melaquin.  The orders are a little disconcerting, for Chee is 150 years old with declining mental faculties;  in addition, though many Explorers have gone down to the planet's surface, none has ever returned;  but, what the heck, Explorers are expendable.<br />When Festina, Yarrun, and their batty Admiral reach the surface, Chee immediately discards his tightsuit and breathes the air.  Festina and Yarrun ignore him and start a survey of their surroundings.  Nothing dangerous appears on the bumbler, so they start sampling the soil and lifeforms.  Suddenly, they notice that the Admiral is no longer with them and is nowhere in sight.<br />This story is a tale of official corruption and unofficial bigotry.  The Admiral is a hoot;  he has lost almost all his inhibitions and tells it as he sees it.  Underneath his cynical remarks, however, works a very shrewd mind.<br />Recommended for anyone who enjoys nitty-gritty yarns of people in a no-win situation.	2003-07-31
1033293:US	49390985	R30UZOKI127PWQ	0312317808	289202770	Gateway	Books	5	1	3	N	N	The Big Glory Hole in the Sky	Gateway (1977) is the first SF novel in the Heechee Saga. The Heechee are long gone, but they have left a Gateway on an inclined orbit that reaches inside the perihelion of Mercury and outside the orbit of Venus. An asteroid or the nucleus of a comet, Gateway is a space station that contained nearly a thousand little FTL ships shaped something like a mushroom. These ships were all programmed for a large variety of destinations.    Every since its discovery, prospectors have been flying the ships out to unknown destinations. Sometimes they come back with news of another uninteresting location, sometimes they come back with only dead bodies on board, and sometimes they don't come back at all. However, every now and then they come back with news of a great treasure of artifacts or data; then everybody on the flight scored big.    In this novel, Robinette Broadhead has been a prospector on Gateway and is one to the big winners. He has crewed on several relatively low payoff flights before he comes back from a twin ship mission as the only survivor. The survivor total mission bonus plus the science bonus nets him over eighteen million dollars, which he then parlays even higher with his investments. However, he is having bad dreams.    Much of the novel consists of Broadhead's conversation with his computerized therapist, which he calls Sigfrid von Shrink, interspersed with his memories of Gateway and the flights that he has taken in the Heechee ships. Every now and then there are inserts of pieces of Sigfrid's program, Gateway brochures, payment statements, and other documents. The plot moves slowly, but the suspense builds also. However, this is not a story for anyone who wants a lot of action; Broadhead is less often doing than done to.    This was an engrossing story of adventure, romance, and suffering. This series is probably the best known of the author's works, although some his other tales are probably better written. Some of the sequels in the series are even better than this novel.    Recommended for Pohl fans and anyone else who enjoys well written tales of relationships amidst the minutia of budgets and bureaucrats leavened with moments of terror in a high tech environment.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-07-27
1035000:US	49390985	ROQXK7KRD3E86	0312150849	181852028	The Colour of Magic (Discworld)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Funny Foursome	The Colour of Magic (1983) is the first volume in the Discworld series. Somewhere there is a giant turtle, Great A'Tuin, swimming through space. Atop the turtle are four enormous elephants -- Berilia, Tubul, Great T'Phon and Jerakeen-- holding up a huge disk that is the world. A moon and miniature sun orbit around this odd grouping.  This initial volume contains four novelettes depicting the zany characters and amazing sights of the Discworld. It features Rincewind the [failed] wizard, Twoflower the Tourist, and the Luggage (also called reflected-sound-as-of-underground-spirits, but who wants to say that every time). Rincewind is best known for his ability to run very fast and very often; he is terrified of almost everything. Twoflower is the first and only tourist on Discworld (Rincewind is not sure what the word tourist means, but he suspects it means idiot). The Luggage is a box with many small legs, infinite storage space, strange powers, and a vicious temper.    In The Colour of Magic, Morpork is burning and the brave citizens of Ankh are demolishing the connecting bridges. Bravd the Hublander and Weasel watch from a cool hilltop a few miles away. They see two mounted men and some kind of low beast coming out of the city; the men are Rincewind, who suffers from an overdose of terror, and Twoflower, who had started the fire. They are accompanied by the Luggage.    In The Sending of Eight, Blind Io and the other gods are playing a game with a board full of modeled pieces representing Bravd, Weasel and other heroes and champions. Lady is down to only Rincewind and Twoflower. Blind Io rolls three fives, but Lady rolls a six, a three and a seven.    In The Lure of the Wyrm, Rincewind, Twoflower, Hrun the Barbarian, and the Luggage encounter Liessa Wyrmbidder of Wyrmberg. Liessa wants a man to be her consort and she selects Hrun. However, Rincewind discovers the magic sword Kring embedded in a tree branch, pulls it free, and finds himself learning how to be a [reluctant] hero as the sword plans a rescue of the kidnapped Hrun.    In Close to the Edge, Rincewind and Twoflower visit the Rimfall, where the ocean falls off the Discworld, and see the Rimbow. They almost fall off the Edge, but are caught in a strong net. Unfortunately, they are then found by the troll who patrols that section of the Circumference for the salvage fleet.    This initial volume introduces the Discworld series. It also initiates the use of irreverent footnotes which are often funnier than the main text. The following volumes, however, expand in all sorts of directions. Some also feature Rincewind, but others include the [mostly competent] wizards of Unseen University, the night watch, the witches, the dwarves, Lord Vetinari, Death, and many more.    Highly recommended to Pratchett fans and anyone else who enjoys dry humor in an exotic (and totally unbelievable) setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-07-25
1037043:US	49390985	R3GLVDCW00557O	067131954X	462701640	The Rising (The Flight Engineer, Book 1)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	War From the Hanger Deck	Rising is the first novel in the Flight Engineer series. Commander Peter Raeder was an ace fighter pilot, but lost his right hand in a Mollie ambush. Now he is a young flight engineer assigned to the Fast Carrier Invincible.    The Mission of Life Lived in Ecclesia sect -- the Mollies -- have rebelled against the Commonwealth. Since this religious group is rather abrasive and intolerant, none would deny them autonomy if antihydrogen was available anywhere else. If the Mollies become independent, however, the Commonwealth will suffer a tremendous economic setback. Moreover, the Mollies have allied with the Fibians, alien sentients, which has generated xenophobic fears in the Commonwealth population. War soon followed.    In this novel, Raeder has been released from therapy and received his orders. After a shuttle ride to Lunabase, he boards the freighter Africa for transport to Ontario Base. Enroute, Africa's convoy is attacked by raiders and Raeder thwarts the assault by crossing over to a raider ship in his spacesuit and breaking its sensors with a hammer. In his spare time, he wins most of the crew's available money playing Dynamics.    On the Invincible, Raeder is responsible for keeping 36 Speed fighters and seven stealth fighters operating. He controls everything on the hanger deck except operations. His second-in-command is Lieutenant Cynthia Robbins, an excellent technician but short on people skills. As he learns during his interview with the Captain, Raeder also has the unofficial responsibility for discovering the saboteur who killed his predecessor.    Raeder is an innovative, experienced and pragmatic officer. His methods are often outside the box, but produce good results. In other words, he is the kind of engineer, and officer, that combat commanders love to have in their units, but that desk jockeys despise and fear.    This novel draws upon Doohan's experience as a engineer, artillery commander, and flying officer in the Canadian Army during World War II. It may even have been influenced by his years playing Scotty, chief engineer on the Enterprise under Captain Kirk.    Recommended for Stirling and \\"Scotty\\" fans and anyone else who enjoys tales of mavericks thumbing their noses at authority while getting the job done.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-07-24
1037430:US	49390985	R2QXDBGFGOQHR8	0312857209	258892911	Of Tangible Ghosts	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Tale of Spooks and Spectres	Of Tangible Ghosts is the first novel in the Ghost series.  In an alternate universe, the English Plymouth colony failed and the Dutch dominated Columbia.  Austro-Hungary has conquered most of Europe and the French exiles under DeGaulle rule in Mexico.  In this timeline, ghosts are much more visible, powerful, and responsive to technical devices.<br />Doktor Johan Eschbach is a former Subminister for Environment in the Natural Resources Ministry of the Columbian government.  Prior to his term as a high level government official, Johan had been a flying officer in the Republic Air Corps and then an agent in the Spazi, the Sedition Prevention and Security Service.  When Speaker Hartpence's Reformed Tories party won the election, they cleaned house in the Natural Resources Ministry and Johan retired to his family's old summer home in Vanderbraak Centre, accepting a position in the Natural Resources Department of the local college, Vanderbraak State University.  <br />In this novel, Johan has a close relationship to Doktor Llysette duBoise, a concert quality soprano who also teaches at the college and who is a refugee from the conquest of France.  Llysette has a concert one evening and Johan drives her to the music center to prepare for the performance, then goes to his office.  Later, as he locks up to leave for the concert, Johan feels a drop in temperature.  Then he hears someone sobbing and shortly thereafter he sees the ghost of Miranda Miller, a piano instructor in the Music department.  Apparent Miranda has just been murdered.  He starts to report the incident to Campus Security, but realizes that such a report would position him as a prime suspect.  Instead, he walks to the Music department to attend Llysette's concert.<br />During the next few days, Johan discovers that the Spazi are interested in Miranda's murder, indicating that the homicide has more that local interest.  Moreover, he starts to receive newspaper clippings from an anonymous source, which he knows must be associated with the Spazi.  It would seem that he is being maneuvered into investigating the case.<br />This novel presents some interesting notions about the creation and persistence of ghosts and the technical manipulation of such spirits.  Moreover, it speculates about the relationship of the mind to the brain and the consequences of separating them.<br />As is usual with Modesitt, the plot moves rather slowly as the reader views and reviews the life of the protagonist and the characteristics of his society.  If the reader can tolerate the slow pace, however, the story will unfold before your eyes as if you were living it.  Maybe Modesitt is an acquired taste, but so is Faulkner, and I find there is much that is common between the two.  Faulkner, however, never had to create a whole timeline.<br />Highly recommended for Modesitt fans and anyone else who enjoys tales filled with philosophical notions, technical speculations and international intrigue.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2003-07-24
1046964:US	49390985	R24A2QWAG703AI	0345357620	471087351	The Steerswoman	Books	5	34	39	N	N	The Machination of Wizards	The Steerswoman is the first novel in the Steerswoman series.  Steerswomen, and a very few Steersmen, are members of an order dedicated to discovering and disseminating knowledge.  Although they are foremost navigators of the high seas, Steerswomen are also explorers and cartographers upon land as well as sea.  With one exception, they are pledged to always answer any question put to them with as truthful a response as is possible within their own limitations.  However, they also require anyone of whom they ask questions to respond in the same manner, upon penalty of the Steerswomen's ban;  those under the ban do not receive answers from the steerswomen.<br />In this novel, Rowan is a Steerswoman who is interested in some strange jewels which have been found distributed in an unusual pattern.  THese jewels are made of strange materials bonded onto metal.  Some think that such jewels are magically produced.<br />Rowan meets Bel, an Outskirter warrior, in a frontier tavern and asks her about a collection of such jewels that she is wearing as a belt.  Bel tells her that the belt had been made by her father with jewels found embedded in the Dust Ridge far beyond the Outskirts.  Rowan is intrigued by this information and wants to visit the site, but first she needs to return to the Steerswomen Archives.  Bel has come to the tavern with friends and plans on returning to the Outskirts with them, but the chance to see the Inner Lands is too good to miss.  She suggests that she travel to the Archives with Rowan and then accompany her from there to the Dust Ridge.  Rowan agrees and they leave the next day.<br />On the way, Rowan and Bel discuss the jewels and their distribution.  Rowan notes that the jewels are scattered like thrown objects.  When she tries plotting various velocities and initial heights on a graph, she begins to suspect that the jewels were thrown from a very high place at great velocity.  Bel suggests that they are part of the disappeared moon, but Rowan knows from her prior investigations that the jewels impacted on the surface long after the Moon vanished.  One aspect of her graphs disturbs her;  she notices that objects thrown from a great height with sufficient velocity will never hit the planet, but will circle it endlessly.<br />Early the next day, they are attacked and almost killed by one of five men who had been wearing a wizard's uniform in the tavern.  Later they are almost killed when they are trapped in a burning inn which has been attacked by a swarm of young dragons;  the local wizard who normally controls these dragons arrives on the scene only after the building is fully ablaze.  At this point, Rowan begins to suspect that some wizard has ordered her death.<br />Rowan and Bel manage to slip away from the fire scene with a party from the Morgan's Chance, the vessel upon which they have obtained passage, and sail away to Wulfshaven and then overland to the Archives.  There Rowan and Bel report these events and the Steerswomen make plans to investigate the wizards.<br />This novel has the immediacy and impact of Kingsbury's Courtship Rite.  It has the same sense of exotic ambiance, strange customs and struggle to survive in an alien environment.  The characters have deepset traits that motivate their actions, yet exhibit a flexible response to their environment.  Best of all, this jewel of a story has sequels:  The Outskirter's Secret is at least as good as this novel and The Lost Steersman should be another excellent read.<br />Highly recommended to Kingsbury fans and to anyone else who enjoys tales of unusual cultures on alien planets with a touch of mystery.	2003-07-16
1047639:US	49390985	RPPEHKGYL707T	0312855257	756495589	Firestar: An Epic of Science Fiction for the Twenty-First Century	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A Paean to Individual Initiative and Innovation	Firestar is the first novel in the Firestar Saga series.  Mariesa Gorley van Huyten is the teenage heiress of an old and very rich family.  She is eager to take over the management of the family business from her grandfather and has decided to obtain a degree at Chicago to learn the basics of administration and management.  During the summer before leaving for college, however, she has a vivid vision of a large meteor strike and resulting destruction which haunts her for the rest of her life.  <br />In the following years, Mariesa concludes that the only protection against human extinction from meteor strikes is an active and prosperous space industry throughout the solar system, providing both defense capabilities and dispersal of the population in self-sufficient habitats.  Since very few others are concerned with the meteor risk, she determines to promote such industry by means of Van Huyten Industries.<br />Christian van Huyten III had begun naming his companies after mythological characters in 1873, so the space initiative adopted by Mariesa shortly after she takes over is named the Prometheus Project.  She recruits several of the VHI executives into the Prometheus Steering Committee.  Development of a single-stage to orbit prototype for the project is performed by Daedalus Corporation, a Brazilian subsidiary, with materiel and expertise provided by other VHI companies.    Daedalus hires Ned DuBois and Forrest Calhoun as test pilots for the new \\"Plank\\" SSTOs.<br />Mariesa also sees better education as a necessity to support Prometheus, so she acquires Mentor Academies, a private education concern, and expands it to manage public schools, under contract with the states and local school districts.  One of the first managed public school districts is North Orange, New Jersey, near her home.  Barry Fast, a teacher within the North Orange district,  becomes a Mentor Institute Fellow and confidante of Mariesa.  <br />As Mariesa begins to build an autonomous space industry within VHI, she finds both supporters and opponents within VHI, in the other aerospace companies and in government.  She also finds herself developing a special relationship with a group of students within the North Orange district.<br />This novel spends a great deal of time attacking the current education establishment.  It doesn't take any position on the dogmatic issues, but rather supports an eclectic approach that enables teachers to control their own presentations and relegates much of the administration to the managerial staff.  Success is measured by the degree to which the student body achieves stated objectives.  As someone who has been exposed to the education curriculum, I tend to agree the author in that the style of teaching must vary according to the student, but current public education thinking seems to consider such an approach to be too expensive.  However, my reading in psychology suggests that the evidence tends to support the author's position:  lockstep teaching is too expensive as well as also ineffectual.<br />This novel lays the foundation for a provocative series.  It has been much compared to Heinlein's works -- i.e., The Man Who Sold the Moon -- but it is much longer and thus more detailed.  Moreover, it has more room for character development and uses it aggressively.<br />Highly recommended for Flynn and Heinlein fans and for anyone else who enjoys hard science fiction with believable characters and excellent plot development.	2003-07-15
1052188:US	49390985	R23HNLOXSY7UWG	0345461053	881658038	The Steerswoman's Road	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Something Strange In the Outskirts	The Steerswoman's Road is an omnibus edition of the Steerswoman series, including the first two volumes.  Steerswomen, and a very few Steersmen, are members of an order dedicated to discovering and disseminating knowledge.  Although they are foremost navigators of the high seas, Steerswomen are also explorers and cartographers upon land as well as sea.  With one exception, they are pledged to always answer any question put to them with as truthful a response as is possible within their own limitations.  However, they also require anyone of whom they ask questions to respond in the same manner, upon penalty of the Steerswomen's ban;  those under the ban do not receive answers from the steerswomen.<br />In The Steerswoman, Rowan is interested in some strange jewels which have been found distributed in an unusual pattern.  She meets Bel, an Outskirter warrior, in a frontier tavern, asks her about a collection of such jewels made into a belt, and agrees to allow her to come along on the journey back to the Steerswomen Archives.  On the way, they are attacked and almost killed by one of five men who had been wearing a wizard's uniform in the tavern.  After almost being killed later in a burning inn, Rowan begins to think that some wizard has ordered her death.<br />In The Outskirter's Secret, Rowan and Bel travel to the Outskirts, where green vegetation is seldom found, but red and black grass and other exotic plants abound.  They travel with Outskirter tribes and Rowan learns much about the fringes of human society.  Outskirter life is hard and various forms of alien death surround them, including goblins and demons.<br />These novels were written over a decade ago and the sequel, The Lost Steersman, has been long awaited.  Re-reading these stories reminds me why.  The world, cultures and characters seem to fit each other so well that the story seems inevitable.  Moreover, the tone and mood closely resembles that of Kingsbury's Courtship Rite, one of the most unique examples of excellent SF worldbuilding.<br />Highly recommended to Kirstein fans and anyone else who enjoys tales of unusual cultures on alien planets with a touch of mystery.	2003-07-12
1057158:US	49390985	RE20TU9NITLFE	0345448359	532522277	Darwin's Children	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Growing Up Shevite	Darwin's Children is the second novel in the Darwin series, following Darwin's Radio.  In the previous novel, the CDC discovered a viral disease that caused miscarriages followed by another pregnancy without the introduction of any male sperm.  Called Herod's flu by the CDC, researchers soon discovered that it originated as an HERV (Human Endogenous Retrovirus);  that is, the virus was produced by each male's own cells and then passed to their mates.  Renamed SHEVA (Scattered Human Endogenous Viral Activation) and soon vulgarized to \\"shiver\\", this disease also caused a few women who had xenotransplants to continually produce a variety of deadly viruses.  The deaths from these cases triggered an intense fear reaction among certain xenophobic segments of society, which lead to the formation of EMAC (Emergency Action) to handle the situation.      Kaye Lang had played a primary role in the identification of the virus and the discovery of the shedding mechanism.  Mitch Rafelson had made the archaeological discovery that SHEVA had been active in ancient times, producing Homo sapiens sapiens from Homo sapiens neandertalis.  Their work brought them together and resulted in Kaye becoming pregnant with Stella, a SHEVA child.  When public reaction became hostile to these children, Mark, Kaye and Stella went underground like many other families with SHEVA children.  Others, however, turned over their SHEVA children to the care of EMAC, who put them in special \\"schools\\".  One such \\"school\\" was attacked and the children slaughtered by nearby residents, so the other schools were fortified to protect the children.    Mark Augustine was the former director of EMAC, but has been re-assigned after the slaughter and is now the director of all federally operated SHEVA \\"schools\\".  The incidence has haunted his conscience, for he was one of the politicians that had fanned the flames of fear and so has to share the blame for the deaths.    Christopher Dicken is still a virus hunter for the CDC, but now he walks with a limp and has only has one eye due to a bomb planted in the White House by a fanatic.  He regularly visits Mrs. Carla Rhine, whose body produces mutated, and often deadly, viruses as the result of an interaction of SHEVA with her pig kidney transplant, and who is now held in maximum isolation.  Dicken is ordered by HHS to meet with his former boss, Mark Augustine, to consult on a new virus which is killing SHEVA children.      Normally, SHEVA children are very healthy and are never infected by normal childhood illnesses;  consequently, some state-controlled SHEVA \\"schools\\" have had most of their medical supplies transferred to other agencies.  Now the children are becoming sick and some have died in various \\"schools\\" across the country.  At the Joseph Goldberger School in Ohio, many of the staff have fled, the National Guard has encircled the grounds and are keeping the public out, hundreds of children are dead, and the medical supplies are scant.  Augustine and Dicken go to the school and try to organize the remaining staff and students to provide essential support.  Augustine has arranged for more medical supplies from federal sources, but the state is trying to block delivery.  The school does have a fully equipped virological research lab, so Dicken starts taking samples and running tests.    In the meantime, Stella has run away from home.  She is convinced that her parents don't understand her, but that other SHEVA children will.  Unfortunately, she encounters a bounty hunter, who locks her up with several other SHEVA children, one of whom is sick and later dies.  Kaye and Mitch track down the bounty hunter and call the state troopers with a kidnapping charge.  The troopers arrive just before the EMAC team that has come to retrieve the children.  Mitch and Kaye are allowed to take Stella home with them, but the other children are taken by EMAC.    Since Stella has caused them to blow their cover, the family flees yet again.  However, Stella becomes sick on the journey and they have to call a doctor to treat her.  When the doctor examines Stella, he forgets to deactivate his automatic upload to the medical authorities, EMAC discovers their whereabouts, and the family has to escape once more.    This novel continues the story of a new species of humanity that is being persecuted by a very frightened population.  Since the SHEVA children have readily discernible differences from Homo sapiens sapiens, they become the victims of casual discrimination and abuse.  Moreover, there are also groups trying to implement a \\"final solution\\".    Nonetheless, the SHEVA children do have some friends, both underground and public.  The story describes several efforts to support and protect the children.  On the other hand, the hostile groups have begun to implement measures that are abhorrent to most citizens and Augustine, in particular, is waiting to bring these practices to public attention.    This novel also adds a theological component.  Kaye begins to have periodic epiphanies and MRI tests indicate that a portion of her brain related to suckling in infants has been activated.  Kaye never receives verbal input from the Caller, but does receive strong emotional input.  Moreover, the Caller never influences Kaye's decisions, but is always supportive.  Frankly, I get the impression that the Caller is a group mind of galactic or larger scope and that it promotes maximum diversity through free will.  Trust the author to insert a few speculations about the endpoint of evolution.    Highly recommended for Bear fans and anyone else who enjoys tales of medical and anthropological research in a SF setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-07-08
1057614:US	49390985	R3F0X0OD1MHB6H	0451459342	261470592	Extremes: A Retrieval Artist Novel	Books	5	14	16	N	N	A Death At the Armstrong Marathon	Extremes (2003) is the second novel in the Retrieval Artist series, following The Disappeared.  In the previous volume, Miles Flint and his partner,  Noelle DeRicci, are detectives in the Moon Police.  They survive and solve three cases involving the Disappeared, people who have been helped to vanish from official view after being convicted of crimes on alien worlds.      Such Disappeared are considered criminals under interstellar treaties signed by the Terran authorities and all Terran police are directed to assist any aliens or bounty hunters who are tracking down such fugitives.  These were Miles's first cases as a detective and the obvious injustices in all three instances are more than he can ignore.  When he receives a large sum of money, Miles resigns from the force and buys the business of a friend who is a retrieval artist.    After learning as much about the business as he can from Paloma, the former owner, Miles awaits his first case.  He is approached by a junior attorney with the firm of Wagner, Stuart, and Xandor, Ltd, to discover the whereabouts of a Disappeared.  Miles is suspicious of the offer, especially when the woman mentions that Paloma had worked with them in the past.  Fearing that he might be used as a Tracker, Miles refuses the case and then visits a research cafe near the University campus to investigate WSX.  Shortly thereafter, Ignatius Wagner, the younger son of WSX's senior partner, shows up to persuade him to take the case.    Meanwhile, Noelle and her new partner, Leif van der Ketting, are directed to the site of the Armstrong Marathon, where the body of a woman has been found on the course.  The body appears to be Jane Zweig, the co-owner of an extreme tours company.  Zweig's partner, Brady Coburn, has discovered the body curled up in the shade of a very large boulder.  When Noelle views the body, she finds several discrepancies that leads her to believe the death was not an accident.    Miriam Oliviari is a Tracker who has come tothe Armstrong Marathon looking for Frieda Tey, a medical researcher who has been accused of exposing a group of subjects to a rapidly mutating virus and then cold bloodily observing their struggles and deaths.  Miriam has joined the marathon staff as a contract medic in order to collect DNA samples from various suspects.  She knows of an incident on the course, but is not concerned since it was reported as a male runner.    These three cases rapidly converge into a single disaster.  Noelle gets to show her administrative talents, Miriam displays her leadership abilities, and Miles performs a hot pursuit in space.  This rapidly moving story is an excellent sequel to The Disappeared, but sets such a high standard that it may prove a hard act to follow.    Highly recommended to Rusch fans and anyone else who enjoys fast moving suspense stories with twist after twist.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-07-08
1059835:US	49390985	R1HR7CQCWRJZOA	0756401453	415549253	Wild Magic: Book Two Of Fool's Gold (Fools Gold, 2)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	The Plot Converges	Wild Magic (2003) is the second novel in the Fool's Gold series, following Sorcery Rising.  In the previous volume, Katla Aransen has been rescued from the burning and fled back to her home.  Tanto Vingo has been stabbed in the groin as he ravished Selen Issian and the wound will not heal.  Enro Hamson has taken Selen away from the Allfair in his fairing.  Saro Vingo is receiving all the blame for his family's misfortunes.  Ravn Asharson, King of the North, is besotted with Rose Eldi and makes her his Queen.      The seither Festrin One Eye guides Katla in healing her own hand and then Katla heals Festrin after her brother Fent plunges a sword into her chest.  Virelai takes Tycho Issian as his new master and Tycho has been made magically obsessed with Rose Eldi.  A great force calling itself Sirio is awakening in the firelands of the South.    In this novel, Aran Aranson conceives a plan to build an icebreaker ship to reach Sanctuary.  He sends his two sons on Tam Fox's ship to steal away Morton Danson, the king's shipmaker, but Halli and Katla tie up Fent and Katla goes aboard as her twin brother.    In Istria, Enro has rigged a shelter for Selen from the fairing, sail cloth, branches and driftwood and has entered a tavern to discover the news.  He learns that Istria is preparing for war with the Eyrans.  After finishing his weak beer, he intends to go to the market to buy food, for the Istrian woman with him eats unimaginable amounts at each meal.  However, he tarries for a while upon hearing mention of Tanto's name.    Elsewhere in Istria, Siro has been tasked with caring for his disabled and incontinent brother.  Tanto, however, is acting weaker than is really the case and has been sneaking around causing trouble for Siro.  In addition, Tanto has learned that Siro can perceive feelings and memories and thus hates to touch, or be touched by, Tanto and certain others, so Tanto sets up situations where Siro has to touch him.    In Sanctuary, the Master has awoken and wonders where his servants have gone.  He scans the world and sees evidence of new magic breaking out everywhere.  He finds Virelai and Bete the cat, but cannot discover any trace of Rose Eldi.    Since this novel is the second of (at least) a trilogy, it does not provide any major answers, but it does start the convergence of various characters into the major plot.  Of particular interest to me was the split between Siro and his family;  about time he dumped his nogood relatives.  Virelai starts to develop some interesting facets while, at the same time, he appears to be even less human;  what exactly is he?  Rose Eldi also appears to be developing some personality.    In many respects, this novel reads better than the first volume.  Highly recommended for anyone who enjoys sword and sorcery tales with strong heroines.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-07-06
1069399:US	49390985	R2DVF9CZCEYJQH	0380775271	61542500	Brother to Dragons, Companion to Owls	Books	5	41	41	N	N	Sarah and the Wolf Pack	Brother to Dragons, Companion to Owls is the first novel by the author.  It is the story of Sarah, a nearly thirty year old resident of the Home.  She is autistic but is able to communicate somewhat by repeating more or less appropriate quotes from literature.  She has a two-headed stuffed dragon figure and a mechanical owl that can fly.    Sarah has a special talent which she hides from most people:  she can talk with inanimate objects such as her dragon and owl.  She can find out the combination for a door alarm just by asking and hidden objects announce their presence to her.  However, she has difficulties telling such information even to her friends and has no desire to communicate with anyone else.    When budgets are cut, Sarah is released from the Home and faces an uncertain future.  She wanders the streets, cold and hungry, and finally huddles in a doorway and sleeps.  Sarah is found by Abalone, a shirtless young girl with a wolfhead tattoo between her breasts, who questions her and then takes her to the Jungle.  In this cylindrical tank-like structure are the Pack, children of various ages, camped on catwalks, ledges, and the floor.  The Head Wolf rules within the Jungle according to the Law of the Pack.    After the Head Wolf accepts Sarah into the Pack, she is put in the charge of Abalone.  She is taught the customs of the Jungle and shown how to steal cars.  Shortly thereafter, Professor Isabella Lacey joins the Pack.  A former staff member at the Ivy Green Institute while Sarah was there, the Professor had read countless lines of literature to her, from which Sarah now drew her quotes.    When Sarah and the Professor hear that two of the former residents of the Home have been brought back, Abalone breaks into the Home computer and discovers that a readmit order has been issued on Sarah.  Later, searchers from the Home raid the Jungle looking for her.    This novel was greatly influenced by the Mowgli story in the Jungle Book.  However, the tale revolvesmostly around her autism and talents.  Despite her serious handicap, Sarah herself is a bright and cheerful person and her friends are loyal and brave.    Highly recommended for Lindskold fans and anyone else who enjoys tales of suspense, adventure and character in a SF setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-06-28
1071767:US	49390985	RMEFNB8OL2N4E	0345435249	147883919	Darwin's Radio	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Next Step in Human Evolution	Darwin's Radio (1999) is the first SF novel in the Darwin series.  Mitch Rafelson is an anthropologist who follows a lead to a small cave that has been buried under a mountain glacier until fairly recently.  There he finds the mummified remains of a Neandertal couple, Homo sapiens neandertalenis, and a baby, who is Homo sapiens sapiens.       Kaye Lang is in Tbilisi, Georgia, to study bacteriophages, but a recently uncovered mass grave site near Gordi becomes a political hot potato and she is co-opted by the UN to investigate due to her slight experience in forensic medicine.  Around sixty men and women have been shot or clubbed to death and buried.  At least two of the women are about seven months pregnant.      Christopher Dicken is an agent of the Epidemic Intelligence Services of the National Center for Infectious Diseases and meets Kaye in Tbilisi while following up a rumor of women bearing children who are different and of entire villages being razed and sterilized.  He returns to the CDC with samples from the grave site near Gordi as well as from a Turkish mother and newborn.    Mark Augustine is the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, Georgia.  It is a time of cutbacks, so Augustine is looking for a public relations angle to save his budget.  He has sent Dicken out searching for an elusive virus in the Ukraine, Georgia and Turkey that causes miscarriages and which has been hidden by the governments, doctors and the general population.  However, a young researcher at UCLA Medical Center has found an unknown virus that is the common element in seven miscarriages and has sent samples to the CDC, where it is called Herod's flu.    The samples do not match any known disease in the CDC files, but does match an HERV (Human Endogenous RetroVirus) embedded within the human genes.  This virus was first identified by Kaye Lang in a series of papers on partial and full HERVs on chromosomes 14 and 17.    The disease is officially name SHEVA (Scattered HERV Activation).  It causes a miscarriage in pregnant women, followed by another pregnancy without the introduction of any male sperm.  The resulting infant is different, mutated, with extra chromosomes.    This novel is the story of the next step in human evolution, which is driven by a mechanism hidden within our own genes.  The public reaction to this new species is fear, anger and violence.  Ambitious politicians fan the flames to promote their own careers and the SHEVA children, and their families, are the victims.    The SHEVA mechanism is highly speculative, but the public consequences are not unlikely.  While this plot has been used many times -- e.g., Van Vogt's Slan and Shiras' Children of the Atom -- the author adds a degree of details never provided in previous stories and also raises some new issues.    Highly recommended for Bear fans and anyone else who enjoys hard SF with an evolutionary biology theme.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-06-26
1074401:US	49390985	R2X12IX38N4IIJ	067172147X	629752719	Path of the Fury (Fury Series)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Tale of Justice/Revenge	Path of the Fury is the first independent novel by the author.  In this novel, \\"pirates\\" are raiding Imperial planets;  not very important planets, but still belonging to the Empire.  After hitting two other planets, they make the mistake of raiding Mathison's World.  One group massacres the occupants of a homestead and are looting when the owner comes home.  Former-Captain Alicia DeVries of the Imperial Cadre kills every one of the raiding party, but not before they have inflicted some grievous wounds.    When the Imperial rescuers arrive, they fail to detect Alicia's body on  three separate SAR overflights, but she is fully visible when a search team touches down at the homestead.  The Imperials are confused, and not a little worried, by her survival and apparent invisibility.  After the initial surgery to repair her wounds, Alicia is turned over to a Cadre medico, Tannis, an old friend and fellow survivor of Shallingsport.    When Alicia returns to consciousness, she finds herself possessed by an ancient Greek daimon, the Fury Tisiphone.  After ruling out insanity as a possible answer, she comes to terms with the old and reduced spirit of revenge and begins planning how they will track down the people who ordered her family to be murdered.  In the meantime, Alicia conspires to convince the medics of her madness.    When Alicia is brought to Soissons, the Sector Capital, for treatment, they see for the first time the alpha synth warship that would figure in their justice/revenge.  Such ships have a crew of one, a neurally linked pilot who is part of a merge with the ship's AI.  Tisiphone starts wandering around the planetary computer networks and making plans.    This novel begins with a fantastic premise, the existence of an ancient demonic spirit which has survived for thousands of years.  The author doesn't explain this anomaly, but just makes it the basis of the plot.  Once they have hijacked the alpha synth ship and Alicia's persona has been impressed on thenewborn AI,  the new Furies are created and are looking for justice/revenge.    By the way, this novel reads like a wish-fulfillment fantasy of a junior officer who has encountered some insufferable seniors.  The writing, however, makes it all interesting, if not believable, and well worth a few hours of suspending disbelief.    Highly recommended for Weber fans and anyone else who enjoys future war SF with justice/revenge overtones.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-06-24
1078868:US	49390985	R33MAY0S9MBYQI	0812575482	649560585	Through Wolf's Eyes (Wolf, Book 1)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	A Feral Child in King Tedric's Court	Through Wolf's Eyes is the first novel in the Firekeeper series.  Earl Kestrel has crossed the mountains looking for Prince Barden's lost colony, gone for many years.  The Royal wolves warn their fellows that strangers have come and the One Male calls for Firekeeper and sends the  Little Two-Legs forth to meet the strangers.  She joins Blind Seer, who has been scouting the strangers, and observes their camp at a distance.  Elation, a peregrine falcon who has been following the group for days, joins them after daybreak and contributes her experience to the ongoing discussions.  The wolf and peregrine are having fun observing the group and Firekeeper, still a little shy, encourages them to observe further.      As they are watching the strangers, Firekeeper and Blind Seer now and then tussle a little in play, making a great commotion and scaring the horses ... and the men.  Earl Kestrel's men have found the burnt out colony and start retrieving bodies from the ruins.  A day or so later, Derian Carter, the horse wrangler, goes for water and finds footprints of a small human and a very large wolf by the stream.  This excites the others and they start looking for her.  While everybody else is away, Firekeeper comes into the camp and inspects Derian at close quarters, while Ox stands back and observes.  When the others start to return, Firekeeper disappears into the forest.  The Earl is displeased that Derian has not stopped her from leaving, but Ox tells him that none could have detained her, for she is too quick.    The next day, while the others are again looking for her, Firekeeper returns to the camp and accepts a shirt from Derian to replace her smelly hides.  This time, when the others return, she stays but leaves herself a line of retreat.  Earl Kestrel decides that they should stop referring to her as \\"she\\" and, since he believes Firekeeper is probably Lady Blysse, Prince Barden's daughter, he suggests that they call her by that name.  However, his cousin Jared recommends that they just call her Blysse, since her younger self would probably have been addressed as such.    After they have finished at the colony site, the group returns to Hawk Haven with Firekeeper and, unknown to them, Blind Seer.  Since Earl Kestrel is convinced that Firekeeper is Blysse, she is taken to West Keep and introduced to civilized ways, with Derian as her trainer.  The Earl hopes to introduce Firekeeper to the court as a possible claimant for the throne, but first she needs to learn some manners.    This novel is the story of a feral child brought back to live with humans.  Unlike most feral children, however, Firekeeper has been raised among talking animals, so she  has already acquired language skills and is fully capable of learning the human language.  Moreover, she is a keen observer and, as an outsider, often sees things that are effectively invisible to humans, like water to fish.  However, she will not fully understand human behavior for many years due to the many artificial distinctions recognized by her society.  Many times she will wish that she had stayed with the Royal wolves.    Unlike most women in Hawk Haven society, Firekeeper has developed her own fighting skills.  Moreover, Blind Seer is usually close at hand.  On several occasions, these fighting skills and Blind Seer's protection keep her from malicious harm.  Some in Hawk Haven do not see her as a young innocent thing, but more as an obstacle to their ambitions.    As with all animal stories, this tale includes an element of satire.  However, it is also a different kind of coming of age story combined with an element of court intrigue.  It lays a strong foundation for the upcoming sequels.    Legendary and mythic archetypes are common in most, if not all, of the author's works, especially in the Athanor series.   Many such elements are found in the author's first novel, Brother to Dragons, Companion to Owls, and some of these motifs are also found in this novel.  The first common element is the Wolf Pack;  although the group in the other novel is human, both novels are heavily influenced by the Jungle Book story of Mowgli, which is itself based on the archetypical motif of children -- e.g., Romulus and Remus -- raised by wolves.  Other common factors are the communications problems of the heroines and the outsider role of the protagonists.    Note:  the author does not use \\"Firekeeper Series\\" as the series name, but has not yet found an acceptable name for the series.  \\"Firekeeper Series\\" is only used by myself as an interim name to differentiate it from her other series until such time as an official name is announced.  The author is always right.    Highly recommended for Lindskold fans and anyone else who enjoys tales of talking animals and naive yet cunning young women in a strange society.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-06-22
1080766:US	49390985	R1VROSJ006OOT4	0441451306	72874657	Knight Life	Books	4	3	3	N	N	King Arthur Meets the Big Apple, Original Version	Knight Life (1987) is another of Peter David's almost unclassifiable works.  It is a small scale epic drama, with comedic overtones, of King Arthur running for mayor of New York while opposed by Morgan Le Fay.    Morgan is a couch potato watching sitcoms while consuming large quantities of beer.  She is contemplating suicide but first she tunes in to her favorite channel: a view of Merlin's resting place.  But, wait, the stone has been moved.  Thus begins the show.    Arthur Pendragon is back!  Of course, his first stop is Arthur's Court, a men's clothier, to exchange his armor for something a little more comfortable, like a three-piece suit, bought with an American Express card, don't leave Camelot without one.    After a local cop suggests a political career, Arthur retrieves Excalibur from Central Park lake and allows Chico and Groucho, two spaced out muggers, to swear undying allegiance to the man with the Day-Glo sword.  He finds Merlin and gathers a campaign staff, including Gwen DeVere as his secretary, Gladys, a basilisk -- just kidding -- as receptionist, and Percy, an old drunk with a CPA -- no kidding -- as treasurer.    The Big Apple meets King Arthur and New York loves him, especially when he saves two children from the fire caused by the fire elemental.  This original version has some rough spots, but is still very funny.    Recommended for fans of Peter David and anyone else foolish enough to subject themselves to such zany humor.  You have been warned;  if you bust a gut, its your fault.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-06-20
1081400:US	49390985	RP087QKOZXP56	0312876920	813218222	Hominids (Neanderthal Parallax)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	First Contact Across Time	Hominids is the first novel in the Neanderthal Parallax series.  Within a nickel mine in Sudbury, Ontario, is located an advanced neutrino observatory, with a ten-story-tall detector chamber containing a 12 meter acrylic sphere filled with heavy water and surrounded by light detectors waiting for a neutrino to collide with a neutron.  One Friday, the detector alarms went off again and again.  When the lights were turned on, remote cameras showed a man within the sphere, drowning in the heavy water.  Then the sphere burst and flooded the chamber.    When the staff entered the room leading to the detector chamber, they found the trapdoor sealed with forty separate bolts.  Before they could find a tool to release the bolts, internal pressure tore the bolts apart and blew open the trapdoor.  After fishing the man out of the water, they found that he had a pulse but was not breathing, so they  applied mouth-to-mouth resuscitation until he began to gasp on his own.    The man was quite stocky and had an unusual face:  broad, but not flat, angled cheekbones, a gargantuan nose, with a thick, dark blonde beard on his lower jaw and straight blonde hair.  When he awoke, he spoke no known language.  At the hospital, the X-rays showed that he had a long skull, with a rounded protrusion at the back, a doubly arched browridge, a gigantic nasal cavity, and a huge lower jaw without any chin and a gap between the last molar and the rest of the jaw.  The attending physician recognized the skull as that of a Neanderthal.    This novel tells the story of a Neanderthal who was thrown across the timelines to another reality -- our own -- by a malfunctioning quantum computer.  Since quantum-computing assumes that calculations will be performed in parallel continuums, a malfunction may well cause a fault in the separation between two adjacent timelines so that a physical object, the Neanderthal in question, might have been ejected from his own universe into ours.    This story describes theproblems the Neanderthal has in learning how to communicate in our society.  Moreover, it tells of the troubles his partner has in the other timeline when he disappears without any trace.    The social differences between these two forms of humanity are portrayed as the effects of physical differences.  Since the Neanderthals have more sensitive olfactory organs, the smells of human civilization are exceeding offensive to them, so they are less likely to pollute the environment.  Moreover, the Neanderthal women's synchronized fertility cycle reduces the influence of sex in their society to five or so days a month;  sublimated sex just isn't a factor in everyday life, so their equivalent of Madison Avenue never really developed.  The Neanderthal are physically strong enough to kill one another with a single blow, so society has developed customs to alleviate anger between individuals and to weed out such traits.  The author spends more time on portraying positive cultural differences in the Neanderthal population than in speculating about possible negative consequences.  Also, some of the effects may be overstated.  However, this story is a satire of our society, not a utopian novel.    As with any scientific problem of this magnitude, the difficulties are caused mostly by human perversity.  This adds a touch of challenge and potential danger to complicate the plot, but when hasn't human greeds and fears made life more difficult.  Apparently, the same holds true for Neanderthals.    Recommended for Sawyer fans and anyone else who enjoys scientific mysteries with more than a touch of human folly.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-06-20
1082765:US	49390985	R2GVJ2Z1SD0Z3N	075640083X	851288995	Sorcery Rising:: Book One of Fool's Gold	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Gold For the Taking	Sorcery Rising is the first novel in the Fool's Gold series.  None upon Elda is as powerful in magic as Rahe.  However, recently Rahe has been doing strange, and destructive, acts.  Virelai has noticed his master setting small fires and someone -- probably Rahe -- has destroyed many rare and puzzling objects in the curiositar.  When his master takes him up to the chamber at the top of the ice tower, Virelai is fearful and confused, but then he begins to understand that the contraption therein reflects a whole wide world that he had never known existed.<br />Among the many sights brought to his eyes by the contraption was the image of a naked women facedown on his master's bed.  This arouses more that his curiosity and he soon returns to the chamber to view other sights and to spy on his master.  He discovers that Rahe is busily destroying all his magic, even his book of Making and Unmaking.  Angrily, he charges down to the workroom, but the master is gone.  He finds a few scraps of the book, but nothing immediately useful until he  notices a scrap with a fiendish recipe for death-that-is-not-death.  Although he has been given a geas against killing his master, the recipe appears not to kill, but to cause a coma-like state, which does not trigger the geas.  Shortly thereafter, Virelai brings his master a tray of foodstuff for dinner.  The next morning, Virelai leaves Sanctuary in a small sloop with a large chest and Bete the cat wrapped and tied in leather.<br />On the Moonfell Plains, the great Allfair attracts both Eyrans and Istrians.  Katla Aransen, smith and daughter of Aren Aranson, arrives with her father, brothers, and friends.  Saro Vingo comes with his father, uncle, older brother, and servants.  Virelai, with Bete and the woman known as Rosa Eldi, accompany the Footloose nomads to the Allfair.  <br />When Katla climbs Sur's Castle, called Falla's Rock by the Istrians, she is met by a pair of irate Istrians.  This confrontation is seen by Saro and the sightof Katla makes his knees weak enough to drop him to the ground.  Unfortunately, this confrontation also leads to a charge of heresy against Katla, which is punished by burning at the stake.  <br />Virelai makes money by selling treasure maps leading to Sanctuary as well as selling Rose's favors.  Among the treasure hunters is Katla's father and among Rose's customers is the Eyran King.<br />Other little irritations, such as the attempted kidnapping of the Eyran king, sour the mood of the Allfair.  When Saro's vile brother, Tanto, is stabbed in the groin, it effectively ends the fair.<br />This series is about the return of powerful magic to Elda, beginning with Virelai's flight from sanctuary.  Katla learns that she can sense and use Earth magic.  Other magic users find that their strength is increased.  Strange beings are appearing on land and in the sea.<br />While this series appears to be influenced by Norse and Persian cultures, there are many differences, including an entirely different pantheon of gods and goddesses.  The author obviously set up the cultural patterns to provide a conflict over the role of women, both within each culture and between the two.  Katla, for example, is an anomaly in her culture, since she is a skilled smith and warrior, but the culture used to have warrior women and still has female magic users who live aside from the normal female roles.  Even so, she has been more tolerated than encouraged.  This volume shows mostly the traditional patterns, with the exception of Katla, and only hints at possible changes.<br />Recommended for anyone who enjoys sword and sorceries tales with strong heroines.	2003-06-19
1084389:US	49390985	R12U2QY1E6J826	0312861206	908323249	Drum Into Silence (Drums of Chaos #3)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The White Bird and the Mole	Drum Into Silence (2002) is the third novel in the Drums of Chaos series, following Drum Calls.  In the previous novel, the three Mages attack Ellar in the Vale of Caeffordian and Cymel yields wholly to the Flow, blowing away the Mages and becoming the White bird.  She takes Lyanz, Amhar, Talgryf, and the bodies of her father and Elizeth to her home.  At Ellar's Tower, she finds Breith and tries to return to her own self, but can't.  Terrified, she flies away.    In this novel, Breith calls to Cymel, but she starts to fly away.  He grabs at her, but only clutches some long black hairs and a leather clasp, a tie that Cymel used to hold back her hair.  Breith hauls the bodies, both dead and alive, into the entryway of the Tower.  He wraps the dead in sheets and carries them into the cellar.  Then he carries the sleepers upstairs to the dusty, cobwebby beds and quickly falls asleep in his own bed.    The next morning, Breith finally gets to wash off the ash, sweat, blood, and stench and drink a cup of tea.  He decides to leave Talgryf with the responsibility for Lyanz and Amhar so he can pursue Cymel to turn her back into a human.  Breith slips away under a flimsy shield of no-see and, days later, Talgryf manages to get the Hero and his lover off the mattress and onto the road.  In the shrine of Marath Alaesh, Brother Kyo drops an icon of the god and chases it around the altar, only to realize that it has become an incarnation of the god Himself;  he is signaled to seek out and help his brother.  In Valla Murdoch, Faobran sends Yasayl, Malart and a group of scribes out to sea.  Rinchay Matan watches her god, Kamkajar, shrivel and fade away and she dedicates her life to finding and punishing the liar who has destroyed her tribe.    Deep beneath the temple of Dyf Tanew in Tyst, Oerfel, the hidden Mage of Neddys, makes it back to his hexagram and resolves to destroy Cyfareth University.  Mahara lays siege to Kar Markaz.  Hudoleth renews her youth and returns to the palaceto manipulate the Emperor.    This novel is the conclusion to the series, which was interrupted by the author's demise.  The posthumous collaboration with Kevin Andrew Murphy has been very true to the previous volumes.    Highly recommended to Clayton fans and anyone else who enjoys complex tales of wizardry and war.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-06-18
1085811:US	49390985	R2CTEZ38UV74VP	0345441222	295433094	Immortalis (The Second DemonWars Saga, Book 3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Bear and the Dragon	Immortalis (2003) is the third, and concluding, novel in the Second DemonWars Saga, following Ascendance and Transcendence.  In the previous volumes, the conspiracy of Aydrian Boudabras, Marcalo De'Unnero and Abbot Olin has brought about the death of King Danube and Aydrian has claimed the throne.  Aydrian has defeated Duke Kalas in single combat and then brought him back from death, assuring Kalas that immortality can be his.  With Duke Kalas, the Allheart Knights and the Kingsmen behind him, Aydrian has overawed the remaining nobles and has exiled his mother, Queen Jilseponie, from Ursal.  Moreover, he has ordered the secret death of Torrence, King Danube's son by Constance Pemblebury.    In Behren, Pagonel and Merwan Ma have exposed the deception of Yatol Douan and the other Yatols have concluded the Transcendence ceremony without a soul stone.  Yatol Wadon travels to Dharyan to break the siege and to initiate peace talks with Brynn, which conclude with Dharyan-Dharielle in To-gai-ru hands.    In this novel, Jilseponie has traveled to Palmaris to bring the news to Bishop Braumin Herde and to ask Roger Lockless and Dainsey to go with her to Dundalis and then on to Andur'Blough Inninness to confront Dasslerond.  She also participates in the planning of the monks as to how to resist the taking of Palmaris and St. Precious abbey by Aydrian and Marcalo De'Unnero.  Belli'mar Juraviel is also returning to Andur'Blough Inninness with a new wife and news of the Doc'alfar, but turns aside to Honce-the-Bear when he hears of the death of King Danube.    In Ursal, King Aydrian sends Abbot Olin, with a fleet and 10,000 soldiers, to Behren to take advantage to the chaos and to bring that nation under the sway of the Abellican Church and the rule of the throne of Honce-the-Bear.  In Behren, Pagonel delays his return to Jhesta Tu to visit Jacinta in order to learn the situation in Behren.  There he hears of the rise of Yatol Bardoh, the man who killed Brynn's father and mother, against Yatol Wadon.  Pagonel then travels with emissaries from Yatol Wadon to Dahdah Oasis, where they find hundreds of Jacintha legion soldiers marching to join Yatol Bardoh.  In To-gai, Pagonel informs Brynn of the troubles in Behren and she decides to ask the dragon Agradeleous for assistance once again.    This novel describes the massive and deliberate maneuvering of Aydrian and his fellow conspirators to gain control of Palmaris and all the other cities and towns of Honce-the-Bear and of the Abellican Church.  All fall before the usurpers, until only St.-Mere-Abelle is left.  In Behren and To-gai, Abbot Olin seems to have gained control of Yatol Wadon and has sent Yatol De Hamman to take control of the other Behren cities.    The allies against Aydrian win a few small victories, but nothing seems to stop Aydrian.  Not only is he much stronger in gem magic that anyone else and a much better swordsman, Aydrian also has control of the largest army in that part of the world.  All looks hopeless, but Jilseponie does not give up, for she knows Elbryan is supporting her somehow.    This series has become complex enough to need a dramatis personae.  Maybe the author could add one to future works of this complexity.     Highly recommended for Salvatore fans and anyone else who enjoys sword and sorcery tales with a strong vein of political intrigue.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-06-16
1086205:US	49390985	RNBAYNVG1AK3J	0686025113	703382462	Garan the Eternal	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Four Fantasies	Garan the Eternal (1972) is a collection of four fantasy tales spanning almost 30 years of the author's career.    Garin of Tuv is the story of Garin Featherstone, a wartime pilot now searching for a job.  He is hired as a pilot on an antartic expedition to investigate an anomaly near the South Pole.  When the three planes of the expedition reach the area, Garin's mind is possessed by a strange power which guides his airplane deep within a crater.  There he discovers an old and alien race that has brought him down to fight an ancient evil.    Garan of Yu-Lac is the story of a previous incarnation of Garin who falls in love with the Emperor's daughter, Lady Thrala, and finds an enemy in Kepta of Koom.  This tale is the backstory of Garin of Tuv.    Legacy From Sorn Fen is a tale of misused power and the peculiar justice found within the fens of High Hallek.    One Spell Wizard is a yarn about a Wizard's apprentice in High Hallek who learns only one spell but uses it cunningly if not quite wisely.    This collection is not the best works produced by the author, but does show some of her characteristic style and wordage.  Recommended for Norton completists.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-06-16
1086659:US	49390985	R1CPLLVC8D9JJJ	0061052744	726815410	Delta Search: Quest for Tomorrow	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An Interstellar Search and Pursuit	Delta Search is the first novel in the Quest For Tomorrow series.  This SF series for young adults is about a gene engineered child, James Endicott, who is being sought by Delta, both a man who is James' biological father and a shadowy government agency with an interstellar reach.  Delta had caught his mother when he was an infant, but James was rescued by Carl, who was a friend of his mother and knows about the altered genetic coding.<br />In this novel, Jimmy lives with Carl and Tabitha on the Terran colony Wolfbane.  On his sixteenth birthday, Jimmy is given a Stiron und Ritter .75 rocket pistol like Carl's and an adult permit to the training range.  Jimmy presents his application to the Space Academy to Carl and Tabitha for their approval, but Carl tells him that he can never apply.  He is still determined to gain admission to the Space Academy, so he transmits the application despite Carl's orders. <br />Later, Jimmy confesses his actions to Carl and is surprised at the reaction:  Carl tells them to pack everything they need to leave the planet.  He also tells Jimmy to wear his S&R .75 from now on.  Carl does fill him in on part of the situation and Tabitha tells him more.  Then the raiders hit their cabin.<br />This novel is more of an escape and evasion plot than anything else, but it is also the tale of James Endicott's coming of age.  He now knows that he is being hunted relentlessly and later learns that the hunter is Delta.  In his flight, he meets Cat Thibaudeaux, who takes him under her wing.<br />This novel was apparently written in collaboration with William T. Quick, who has also written Systems, a fairly interesting SF novel.  This novel, however, does not have the complexity of Quick's other novels.<br />Recommended for young adults and anyone else who enjoys relatively simple plots in a SF setting.	2003-06-16
1087720:US	49390985	R30COM23M1GSHJ	0399149864	919064525	Pattern Recognition	Books	5	32	37	N	N	A SF Novel of the Past?	Pattern Recognition (2003) is the eighth novel by William Gibson.  Although all the novels seem to share a common universe, this work does not include any characters from the previous stories and, indeed, is set in the very near future, which might now be the past.    In this novel, Cayce Pollard is a design consultant who has the ability to recognize which logos and other designs will be successful, but does not have a conscious understanding of how she makes such judgments.  The ability is probably connected in some way with her strong reaction to certain commercial logos and symbols, an aversion that developed during childhood and which has been highly resistant to therapy.    Cayce also has an unusual avocation: collecting and analyzing \\"footage\\" found on various network servers.  This \\"footage\\" seems to be segments of a visual presentation involving a man and a woman in unidentifiable locations.  Cayce is a member of a chat group @ Fetish:Footage:Forum which is also dedicated to the discovery of the origin and purpose of this \\"footage\\".    Cayce is based in New York, but travels to London to meet with Blue Ant, a client who wants an opinion on a new logo.  Cayce stays at the new home of a friend, Damien, who is on a shoot in Russia.  Cayce sees London as the mirror world, so alike yet so different.  In contrast, she would probably see Canada as being so similar to the USA that it is much like another state.  On the other hand, Tokyo is so wildly different that it can't possibly mirror the USA.    The following day, Cayce attends the meeting with her client and finds Dorotea Benedetti, representative of the design group that produced the logo, strangely hostile, even to the point of covertly burning a hole in Cayce's reproduced bomber jacket.  When she returns to her Damien's place, Cayce discovers that someone has gotten in, despite the door lock and dead bolt, and has accessed Damien's computer system.  She pushes redial on the phone and gets Dorotea's answering machine.     Later, Hubertus Bigend, owner of Blue Ant, asks Cayce to track down the origin of the \\"footage\\" for him.  As she travels to various locations, including Tokyo, Cayce encounters other strange and hostile events.    Cayce is the daughter of a security consultant, Win Pollard, who was apparently last seen taking a cab in the direction of the World Trade Center on 9/11/01.  Although Win is presumed dead in the terrorist attack or its aftermath, Cayce and her mother are having a hard time getting the insurance company to settle their claims.  Since there was no body, Cayce still hasn't been able to grieve for her father.      As misfortune and malice dog her footsteps, however, Cayce remembers more and more of the knowledge imparted by Win and manages to outwit her persecutors.  At the end of the book, she still isn't certain whether her father is alive or dead, but is able to accept the possibility of his death with both sadness and pride.    This novel has a surreal ambiance, much like Blade Runner, that creates a feeling of disassociation and confusion.  It is as if the reader is sharing the jet lag that impairs Cayce's mental alertness at several points in the book.  Part of the effect results from the polyglot mixture of characters that Cayce meets in London and elsewhere, a sort of vicarious cultural shock.  Some of it comes from the interleaving of the real and the cyber worlds, yet the network access only involves chat and email.    This novel is stylistically and contextually interesting.  Although I had my doubts in the beginning, the plot and characters gradually became more enthralling until I just had to finish the book.  And I can assure you that I enjoyed the experience.    Highly recommended to Gibson fans and anyone else who enjoys high tech mysteries with a strong feel of a global network community.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-06-15
1088122:US	49390985	R277X893B2ZUAA	0765304171	981947955	Jaws of Darkness	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Hell Begins To Steam	Jaws of Darkness (2003) is the fifth novel in the World At War fantasy series, following Rulers of the Darkness.  In the previous volume, Leudast and his men have captured the so-called King Raniero trying to escape from Herborn.  Vanai's pregnancy makes her disguise cantrip wear off too soon and she is captured by Algarvian constables.  Gyongyos comes up with their own variant of the life force magic.  Garivald and Obilot escape from the Unkerlant inspectors.    In this novel, the Algarvians are hard pressed in the south within the Duchy of Grelz and in the north near the Forthwegian border.  The Kuusamans and Logoans are pushing back the Gyongyosians in the islands and harassing the Algarvians in Valmiera with dragons from their iceships.  The Kuusaman theoretical sorcerers, together with the Logoan Fernao, are beginning to teach other sorcerers how to use the new forms of magic.  Garivald gets impressed into the Unkerlantian army and learns to read and write.    Personal relationships become even more complicated, with Vanai having her baby and Krasta becoming pregnant by either Colonel Lurcanio or Viscount Valnu.  Leino and Pekka both yield to temptation and let the future take care of itself.  Foreign Minister Hajjaj of Zuwayza acquires an unexpected romantic interest in his own household.  Leudast finds himself becoming romantically involved with a peasant girl and learns to use his connections to his advantage.    This series is an allegory of the World Wars.  Most reviewers assume that it mirrors World War II, but certain aspects are more like World War I.  However, the geopolitical environment in this series does not mirror the govermental status of nation states within the 20th century.  Where are the representive democracies or the authoritarian states?  Absolute monarchies in the analogs of Russia and Germany suggests WWI.  However, none of the other monarchies, with the possible exception of Kuusamo, appear to be constitutional governments (either written or unwritten).  Such conditions have have not occurred in the real world since the Magna Carta and most surely not since the Declaration of Independence.    Again, this series has a simplified background, avoiding the complex interplay of politics within councils, parliaments, or legislatures and leaving the real decision making in the hands of the monarchs.  This allows the author to present his lessons with minimal distractions.  Although the author does not preach these lessons, he does have the characters expression some very good points.  In other words, he makes the reader think without being intrusive or boring.    An editorial reviewer mentioned Habukkak as a test of WWII knowledge.  It is a trick question, for Habakkuk is not an alias.  Search the web under ice+ships.    Recommended for Turtledove fans and anyone else who enjoys speculative fiction with a strong historical and moral component.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-06-14
1089963:US	49390985	R2NU0GEVWI58RK	0765300362	122891749	Rulers of the Darkness	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Hell Like a Roiling Stream	Rulers of Darkness (2002) is the fourth novel in the World At War fantasy series, following Through the Darkness.  In the previous volume, the Unkerlant trap the Argarvians within Suligen and cut off an escaping column.  Major Spinello is flown out of Suligen with a chest wound.  Outside Suligen, Leudast saves a man in the penal battalion and shares food with him.  Within Suligen, a behemoth drops an egg on Transone.    In Kuusamo, Pekka, Ilmarinen, Siuntio, and Fernao blow a great hole in the ground with the new sorcery and produce a clump of green grass amidst the snow.  In far western Unkerlant, Istvan and his men scavenge felt boots off Unkerlanter corpses.  In Zuwayza,  Hajjaj learns about the new magic development from the Algarvian ambassador.  In Forthweg, Vanai goes to the public bathhouse and finds Algarvians enjoying the public nudity.  In Lagoas, Cornelu gets a new uniform coat, but finds Balio's cafe burnt to the ground.      In this novel, Leudast's unit leaves retaken Suligen and heads north to the next hot spot.  There, near Durrwangen, Sidroc and the Plegmund's Brigade are trying to hold back the Unkerlanter assault and are rescued by counterattacking Algarvians.  In Trapani, Major Spinello is released from the hospital and assigned a regiment in Eoforwic.  In Unkerlant, Marshall Rathar, despite his words of caution, is ordered to attack and keep attacking.    In Valmiera, Skarnu has escaped to Ventspils but the red heads are close on his trail.  In Kuusamo, Pekka and Fernao speculate that they are producing energy by twisting time with the new sorcery.  In Jelgava, Talsu is interrogated by local constables who want names, but don't care whose they are.  In Forthweg, many walls are beginning to bear the word \\"Suligen\\".  Elsewhere in Forthweg, Bembo and his partner arrest Vanai's grandfather.  In Grelz, Sadoc tries to hide footprints in the snow and makes them luminescent instead.  In Valmiera, Krasta is beginning to think about the Algarvians loosing the war and not liking her thoughts.    This series is an allegory of the World Wars.  However, many of the details are deliberately scrambled.  For example, the names for these nation states seem to have been taken from cities in various parts of the world:  Kaunas, Valmiera and Jelgava are Latvian cities, Siaulia is Lithuanian, Algarve is Portuguese, Bari is Italian, Yanina is Greek, Gyongyos is Hungarian, Kuusamo is Finnish, Sibiu is Romanian, and Zuwayza is Jordanian.  Lagoas means lakes in Portuguese and there are several towns and cities in Brazil and elsewhere that include Lagoas in their name.    The geography in this series includes only a small number of nation states as compared to the real world.  Everybody agrees that these states represent one or more of the real world countries as constituted after WWI:  Algarve represents Germany, Unkerlant is the core states of the Soviet Union, Gyongyos is Japan, Zuwayza is Finland, Forthweg is Poland, Lagoas is England, Yanina is Italy, Kuusamo is the USA, Ortah is Switzerland, and the Land of the Ice People is North Africa.  Less certainly, the Duchy of Bari is Austria (and probably the Sudeten and Czechoslovakia), the Duchy of Grelz is the Ukraine (including Galicia), and Obuda Island is the Philippines.  Jelgava and Valmiera would seem to be France and Greece, but not necessarily in that order.  Others have asserted that Sibiu is Norway, although the Low Lands -- Belgium and Holland -- seem to be a better fit.  Siaulia is a complete mystery to me.    Regardless of the correctness of these associations, several important countries are missing.  These seems to be no equivalent of Spain and its Civil War, which was a significant training and testing ground for the Nazis.  Moreover, the Balkans and the successor states to the Ottoman Empire are never mentioned and China and other Asian mainland countries are conspicuous by their absence.  Once again, the background has been simplified to remove distractions.    Recommended for Turtledove fans and anyone else who enjoys speculative fiction with a strong historical and moral component.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-06-13
1091815:US	49390985	R2FKL6GFSKL0WZ	0743435990	911600384	The Service of the Sword (Worlds of Honor #4)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Even More From the Worlds of Honor	The Service of the Sword is the fourth anthology in thr Worlds of Honor series.  This volume contains six stories in the Honor Harrington universe, only one of which directly involves Honor.  Promised Land by Jane Lindskold is the story of a Grayson girl who is captured by a Masadan privateer and incorporated into his family.  Unfortunately for the Masadan, she can read and is computer literate.  With One Stone by Timothy Zahn recounts an incident where a Peep warship live tests a new weapon system on Manty merchanters, so ONI gathers information and Honor Harrington provides a warm reception with a little help from her friends.  A Ship Named Francis by John Ringo & Victor Mitchell tells about a madhouse of a ship where the odds and sods in the Grayson Navy are sent to keep them away from real sailors.  There are real world precedents for this story, but none so surreal as the events herein.  Let's Go to Prague by John Ringo is a yarn about two Manty covert ops agents who decide to go for drinks on Prague, a Peep planet, and find plenty of fun and games there.  Personally, I believe this story to be not totally fictitious;  a goodly number of the covert ops types are adrenaline junkies, not quite sane by normal standards (somewhat like fighter pilots).  Fanatic by Eric Flint is the tale of a man who believes in his oath of office and confounds the normal run of hypocrites while purifying the Security service.  The Service of the Sword by David Weber describes the middy cruise of the first Grayson Midshipwoman, the unexpected expenditure of munitions involved, and the example she sets for her successors.  Although I enjoyed the first story the most, this opinion is subject to change without notice.  I believe that most of these stories will meet with your approval, for they are excellent reading by great writers.  Enjoy.  Recommended for Honor Harrington fans and anyone else who enjoys tales of naval/marine life, combat and frolics in a SF setting.	2003-06-11
1091840:US	49390985	R1ZSYXXF9MBAYN	0312869150	536013485	Darkness Descending (World at War, Book 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	About Biting Off More Than You Can Chew	Darkness Descending (2000) is the second fantasy novel in the World At War series, following Into the Darkness.  In the previous volume, the Algarvians have rounded up the Kaunians in their country and put them in camps.  In Kuusamo, Pekka has found a anomaly in magic and takes it to her Masters.  In Lagoas, Fernao notices that the foremost Kuusaman theoretical sorcerers are no longer publishing articles and takes this information to his Master.  Cornelu has unexpectedly come home to Tirgoviste.  In Forthweg, Major Spinello has sent Brivibas to the work gangs and Vanai has given herself to Spinello protect her grandfather.   Istvan's unit on Obuda has been transferred back to the mainland to fight in Unkerlant.    In this novel, the Algarvians are advancing across the seeming endless plains of Unkerlant and King Swemmel has ordered that all food must be hidden or delivered to his inspectors to keep it from the invaders.  Marshall Rathar has come south to learn why the Unkerlantian army is being pushed back so quickly.  Gyongyos has once more invaded far western Unkerlant and the Zuwayzin have pushed their border with Unkerlant back to where the Treaty of Bludenz had set it.      Fernao has come to Kuusamo to find out about their new research, but is rebuffed.  Marquis Skarnu has discovered love with a Valmieran peasant woman while his sister meets her match in Colonel Lurcanio.  Trouble is brewing within Ealstan's family.    This series is an allegory of the World Wars.  However, the various national characteristics have been scrambled to preclude identification by stereotypical characteristics.  For example, the Argarvians are red headed, with waxed mustaches.  The Yaninans are short and wiry, with olive skins, dark eyes, dark hair, and thick bushy mustaches.  The Kuusaman are short, with swarthy skin, dark hair, and brown slanted eyes.  The Gyongyosians are tall, with blondish hair and beards.  The Obudan Islanders have coppery skin.  The Kaunians are blue eyed and blonde headed.    The Forthwegians have a mania for mushrooms.  The Gyongyosians do not eat goat meat.  King Swemmel of Unkerlant has a passion for efficiency.    The Forthwegians are stubborn and persistent.  The Ice People herd camels and the Kuusaman herd reindeer.  The Yaninans have bagpipe bands.  Every day dress is also mixed in this story, from the kilts of the Algarvians to the pants of the Kaunians.    The major difference from the real worldline is probably the Kuanians, who are the persecuted people of Derlavai.  Long ago the Kuanians built an empire that conquered most of the known world, leaving relics such as roads and memorial arches throughout this domain.  Then they were defeated and dispersed, with only Valmiera and Jelgava remaining as predominantly Kuanian states.  Throughout the known world, however, the Kuanians are known for their scholarship and classical Kuanian is the international language of diplomacy and trade.  In effect, the author has combined the Jews and the Romans in this worldline.  However, the names -- i.e., Kaunas, Jelgava, and Valmiera -- are Latvian, probably reflecting Baltic history.    Recommended for Turtledove fans and anyone else who enjoys speculative fiction with a strong historical and moral component.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-06-11
1092420:US	49390985	R3QZ9AQGEX0GYP	0312878257	145164961	Through the Darkness (World at War, Book 3)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Frozen Hell	Through the Darkness (2001) is the third novel in the World At War fantasy series, following Darkness Descending.  In the previous volume, the Algarvians, although outnumbered in Grelz, keep outmaneuvering the Unkerlanter army.  In Kuusamo, Pekka, with Siuntio and Ilmarinen observing, uses a divergent series chant to release enough energy to blow out all the window glass in the lab.  In Forthweg, Sidroc finally signs up for Plegmund's Brigade and Ealstan is sick, so Vanai has to venture out to get medicines for him.      Cornelu finds that his Lagoan leviathan isn't as well trained as Eforiel, but still gets the job done.  In Jelgava, Talsu keeps being told that he is lucky to be alive after the stabbing incident.  In far western Unkerlant, Istvan is not enjoying his stroll through the woods, being too busy fighting ambushes and forest fires.  In Valmiera, Valnu takes Krasta for a walk just before a bomb goes off where they had been;  unfortunately, the bomb only causes superficial damage to Colonel Lurcanio.  In Grelz, Garivald is caught by the Algarvians but is rescued by Unkerlanter irregulars.     In this novel, Ealstan recovers from the sickness and finds that some of his clients have made other arrangements.  Zuwayza has Kaunians coming to their shores requesting asylum from the Algarvians.  Skarnu attends a meeting of the resistance which is raided by the Algarvians.  Constable Bembo and his fellows come to Oyngestun to round up Kaunians.   Garivald goes on his first ambush with the Unkerlant irregulars.  Colonel Sabrino returns to his dragon farm to find that the Lagoan dragons had dropped eggs there earlier.      On the Southern continent, Fernao is pleased when Kuusaman and Lagoan dragons fly in, but they don't bring any more supplies;  the meals continue to be camel or ptarmigan.  Leudast's men give the Algarvians a hard time in a swamp before reforming on higher land.      Marshall Rathar perceives the Algarvian strategy and convinces King Swemmell thatthe red heads are trying to take the Mamming Hills.  The King permits him to build up his forces to stop the Algavians before Suligen.    This series is an allegory of the World Wars, with magic replacing the science and technology of this worldline.  Some of the events in this series are more indicative of the first World War while others are more like the second;  for example, the life force magic is analogous to the chemical weapons used in WWI, but the new magic being developed by the Kuusamans is much more like the atomic weapons developed during WWII.      Another reflection of earlier events is the invasion of Gyongyos into far western Unkerlant.  These actions seem to reflect various Japanese intrusions into Russian territories beginning with the Russo-Japanese War in 1904-1905, through the Russian Civil War in 1917-1921, and then to 1924, when Japan returned Sakhalin Island.  However, Japan occupied other areas, including Korea, in the northern Pacific coast of the Far East until the end of WWII.    Recommended for Turtledove fans and anyone else who enjoys speculative fiction with a strong historical and moral component.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-06-11
1092474:US	49390985	R2ZL6WE53QNVZE	0743435877	595963687	Warlord	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Building a Solid Reputation	Warlord (2003) is the first omnibus edition in the General series, containing the first and second novels.  Eleven centuries after the Fall of the interstellar civilization called the Federation of Man, the planet Bellevue is in a downward spiral toward barbarism.  The Civil Government controls only a portion of the planet and has been pushed out of the Old Residence, the original capital.  Other areas are controlled by the Squadron, the Brigade, and the Colony.    Raj Whitehall is an officer in the army of the Civil Government of Holy Federation.  He has recently been promoted to Captain for his role in suppressing rioting in the streets.  He and his friend Thom Poplanich, a scion of the previous imperial dynasty, were exploring the catacombs under the Governor's palace when they found a Sector Command and Control Unit, a pre-Fall military/political computer facility.      The Center has been trying to break the downward slide of civilization, but lacked a suitable agent.  It offered the ambitious young officer the chance of a military career beyond his wildest dreams if he allowed it to advise him;  when Raj agreed, it provided the capability of instant mental communication by voice and pictures to and from Raj.  When Raj returned to his duties, Center would present him with detailed, lifelike scenarios for various projected actions.      Center calculated that Thom would be executed when the Governor's heir took the throne, so he was retained in suspension within the Center, learning the skills of governing.    In The Forge (1991), the first novel in the series, Raj is given command of the Fifth Descott Guards, a hill unit from his homeland, during a coordinated feint with other Civil Government forces against the Colony borderlands.  Raj has proposed the feint to force the Colony to react to a perceived raid and thus reconsider their plans to invade Civil Government lands.    In The Hammer (1992), the second novel in the series, Raj commands the Expeditionary Force attempting to retake the Southern Territories.    This series was created by Drake and fleshed out by Stirling.  It was loosely based on the career of Belisarius, the Eastern Roman Empire general, who may have been the best fighting general in all history.  Belisarius came to the attention of the current Emperor when he crushed the Nika rioters.  His nemesis was the Imperial heir, and subsequent Emperor, Justinian, who was a brilliant administrator, but a poor general, and who saw Belisarius as a rival for the throne.  Thus, Justinian repeatly set up Belisarius for failure, yet somehow the general kept winning.    The story of Belisarius has fascinated many people down through the ages and several other SF works have been inspired by his life.  None, however, has ever generated the same degree of wonder as the original.  This series, however, comes close.    Recommended for Stirling & Drake fans and anyone else who enjoys military SF set in a early industrial milieau.	2003-06-11
1092785:US	49390985	R3T4I40JYA9P1E	074343594X	86314485	Conqueror	Books	5	42	42	N	N	Using the Reputation	Conqueror is the second omnibus edition in the General series, containing the third, fourth and fifth novels. Eleven centuries after the Fall of the interstellar civilization called the Federation of Man, the planet Bellevue is in a downward spiral toward barbarism.  The Civil Government controls only a portion of the planet and has been pushed out of the Old Residence, the original capital.  Other areas are controlled by the Brigade and the Colony.      Raj Whitehall is a General in the army of the Civil Government of Holy Federation.  He has foiled an invasion by the Colony and retakened the Southern Territories from the Squadron.  He has been aided in these endeavors by the Center, a pre-Fall military/political computer facility.  It has the ability to communicate by voice and pictures to and from Raj and can present detailed, lifelike scenarios to him for various projected actions.    His friend Thom Poplanich, a scion of the previous imperial dynasty, is being retained in suspension within the Center, learning the skills of governing.    In The Anvil (1993), the third novel in the series, Raj commands the campaign against the Western Territories and the barbarians of the Brigade, who hold the Old Residence.      In The Steel (1993), the fourth novel in the series, Raj has taken Lion City and continues his march toward the Old Residence.    In The Sword (1995), the fifth novel in the series, Raj has taken the Old Residence, but his wife Suzette has shot the Governor's young heir, Cabot Clerett, when the man tried to shoot Raj.  The Governor is about to reduce Raj to quivering protein, but is interrupted by news that the Colony has invaded the Eastern provinces, taking Gurnyca.  The military situation looks hopeless, so Raj is reprieved and given command in the East, with full Viceregal authority.    This story presumes a level of technology -- i.e., ships, armaments and equipment -- at about the pre-Civil War stage, much higher than that of Byzantium during thetime of Belisarius, but still not as devastating as that of World War I.  Thus, the force multipliers of firepower and mobility increased the damage that could be done by smaller forces against the more primitive Squadron and Brigade forces.  However, the forces lead by Whitehall did not have such technological superiority over the Colony forces and, indeed, had a numerical disadvantage, so Raj used superior maneuvering, massed artillery fire, and defensive positions against them.    Recommended for Stirling & Drake fans and anyone else who enjoys military SF set in a early industrial milieau.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-06-11
1097251:US	49390985	R11Z8TF6TB23Y	0441897088	126483618	Witch World	Books	5	91	93	N	N	A Knight on the Siege Perilous	Witch World (1963) is the first novel in the Witch World series.  Once Simon Tregarth had been a Colonel in the US Army in Occupied Europe, but had been unknowingly caught up in a black market deal.  On the basis of perjured testimony, he had been courtmartialed, stripped of rank, and imprisoned.    When released, he had become that of which he was falsely accused, a dealer in illegal merchandise.  Then his path crossed that of Hansen and now the Organization is after him.  He has been on the run for some time and has left a few dead pursuers on his back trail, but is tired and sleepy.  Now he faces Sammy, who is more dangerous than the others.    Tregarth stops in a restaurant to eat a pleasant last meal and is accosted therein by Doctor Jorge Petronius, who is well know in some circles as the man who can make you disappear.  Petronius offers his services in exchange for whatever remains of the $20,000 brought from San Pedro.    Tregarth accompanies Petronius to an ancient little house and is told the legend of the Siege Perilous.  \\"One takes his seat upon the Siege and before him opens that existence in which his spirit, his mind -- his soul if you wish to call it that -- is at home.\\"  At dawn, Tregarth sits on the stone and disappears from this world.    Tregarth is spilled out to sprawl face down of the thick wiry turf of a gray-green moor.  Behind him are two rough pillars of reddish rock.  He walks directly away from them across the soggy turf.  As the sun rises, he hears a horn calling and cautiously moves in that direction.  He sees a woman pursued by thin, white hounds and then the masters riding on horses.  The animals and men corner the woman and one of the men takes a weapon from a holster on his belt and raises it toward the woman.  Tregarth shoots him out of the saddle.    Thus Simon Tregarth meets the Lady Jaelithe, although he was not to learn her name for some time yet, and is introduced to the Witches of Estcarp.  He soon meets Koris, Captain of Estcarp's fighting men and Prince of lost Gorm.  Together, these three battle an invasion of evil from another worldline:  the Kolder.    Although the Witch World series is now considered fantasy, this first novel does not differ significantly from much of the author's science fiction.  The \\"magic\\" powers of the Estcarp witches may just as well be psionic talents such as in the Warlock, Janus, and Forerunner series.  Moreover, the \\"magic\\" exists side-by-side with technology, both native to Estcarp and imported from Earth and wherever the Kolder come from.  It is difficult to find anything in this first novel that isn't just as much SF as the Pern series.    Later, the series begin to acquire characteristics of fantasy, such as shapechangers and Words of Power.  Maybe the fantasy ambiance was just more exceptable than the author's soft SF environment, for this series became wildly popular within the SF/Fantasy community and then with other readers.  The author had been popular with younger readers, including myself, for some time, but now started attracting wider attention among college students and older adults.  She had never really published much in the magazines and thus didn't garner Hugo and Nebula nominations, but now her novels began to impress the readership enough that a special Hugo was awarded for her lifetime achievement as a Master of SF and Fantasy.    This story was first published in 1963.  As such, it was written to a different standard than contemporary authors such as Robert Jordan and Terry Goodkind.  It is very linear, without the stylistic gimmicks of flashbacks and multiple storylines.  However, it tells a story that can still enthrall a reader who is willing to put aside all expectations and just go with the flow.    This tale started Andre Norton's rise to fame.  It is a must read for any Norton fan.  The next volume is [[ASIN:0441878792 Web of Witch World]].  Read and enjoy.    Highly recommended to anyone else who might enjoy a well-craftedtale of courage, special talents, and romance.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-06-07
1099372:US	49390985	R37MWZUOJT8A6Z	0345416619	426738597	How Few Remain	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Southern Victory in 1862	How Few Remain (1997) is a science fiction novel about a timeline where the South won the Civil War.  A courier lost a copy of General Robert E. Lee's Special Order 191, showing the entire disposition of his forces, in the Confederate camp in Frederick, Maryland, but a Rebel infantryman noticed his dropped message and returned it to him.  The Southern forces went on to win the battle at Hagerstown and the war.    In this novel, two decades later, Colonel George Armstrong Custer is chasing Kiowas to the south of Fort Dodge, Kansas.  The indians are making for the Indian Territory border, where they will be off limits to the Union forces.  However, Custer decides that they are not going to stop this time, but continue to pursue the savages across the border, but encounters a Confederate cavalry squadron at the border.  Custer exchanges several pleasantries with the Confederate Captain, including a few \\"You started it\\" remarks from each side, and returns to Fort Dodge.      Elsewhere, Abraham Lincoln is presenting a speech in Denver with a Marxist theme.  Samuel Langhorne Clemens is writing editorials about Maximillian selling the provinces of Chihuahua and Sonora to the Confederacy for three million dollars.  Theodore Roosevelt is running a ranch in Montana Territory.    The conflicts between the USA and the CSA haven't disappeared, but have only been allowed to stew awhile.  Mounting frustration in the North has brought a Black Republican back into office, the first since Lincoln, and he is talking tough.  War seems inevitable.    The novel hinges on a historical event that allowed McClellan to defeat Lee at Antietam.  Without prior knowledge of Lee's dispositions, however, McClellan probably would not have maneuvered the Confederate forces into the pocket between Antietam creek and the Potomac.  Lee had planned on passing through Hagerstown into Pennsylvania and then hitting the railroad bridge across the Susquehanna, as he actually did a year later.  With the disposition of McClellan's troops at that time, and with Jeb Stuart at hand, Lee may well have defeated McClellan as he had so many times before.  This time, however, the loss could have been a disaster for the North, for Lee was poised to cut off the Union troops in the field and threaten Washington, thereby forcing the Union into a cease fire and, if nothing else, a defacto truce.    This story sets the stage for the author's subsequent novels in this timeline:  the Great War series and the American Empire series.  While none can really determine the exact path that a timeline will follow at a divergence point, the author has used existing political trends and personalities to shape a new and different future.  Such alternate histories provide a new look at the way history actually happened, separating the ephemeral trends from the fundamental movements in social affairs.  This author is one of the very best at such works.    Recommended for Turtledove fans and anyone else who enjoys playing \\"what if\\" with American history.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-06-05
1099418:US	49390985	R1HDQ16SHD2U14	0345456351	449599166	A Gift of Dragons (Pern)	Books	5	127	131	N	N	The Gift of the Dragons	A Gift of Dragons (2002) is a collection of four short works in the Pern series.  Three of these works have been previously published and one is new to this book.    The Smallest Dragonboy (1973) is the story of a twelve year old boy who is the smallest candidate in his Searched group and cruelly treated by another older boy, yet perseveres in his efforts to impress a hatchling.    The Girl Who Heard Dragons (1994) is the story of a young holdless girl who can hear dragons talk to each other and, when her family is threatened, finds that she can also talk to them.    Runner of Pern (1999) is the story of a young women who is a runner, carrying written messages for long distance, who comes to Fort Hold at gather time with a score to settle with someone who ran her off the runner trace the night before.    Ever the Twain (2002) is the story of a pair of twins, one of whom desperately wants to become a dragonrider, but the other is selected to be a candidate at the next hatching.    These tales are about character, courage and perseverence and not one of them has an unhappy ending.  Some will find them too sweet for their taste, especially together, but I enjoyed the uplift that they brought me.    Recommended for McCaffrey fans and anyone else who enjoys stories like O'Henry's The Gift of the Magi.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-06-05
1101517:US	49390985	R360HXYYJQ9A8O	0061059722	413464205	Brothers in Arms	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Tale of Conflicting Loyalties	Brothers In Arms (2001) is the first SF novel in the In Arms series.  South Point Academy is a colonial institution established by the Seven Systems Guard Corps.  Relations between the Seven Systems Alliance and Terra has been steadily deteriorating and the Guard Corps foresees the need for many more officers with the anticipated onset of war.  Exeter was chosen as the site of the Academy due to the extensive ruins left by the alien Racinians.    Scott St. Andrew is a colonist from Gatewood-Callista who has entered the Academy to escape the mines.  He and his brother Jarret have been assigned to the same squad under Squad Sergeant Judiah Pope, a second year cadet.  Scott is despised by his squad mates as a genny, the bearer of a birth mark that indicates that he has the mutated genes resulting from a virus infection several generations earlier.    In this novel, someone cuts the line that Scott is using to rappel down  a cliff.  Although saved by Pope with a anti-gravity gun, another of his squadmates, Roolsin Halitov, tries to have him kicked out for the incident, but is thwarted by the evidence of the cut rope.  Halitov, also from Gatewood-Callista, is determined to get rid of Scott because of his low scores and unimpressive performance.      After they return to the barracks, Halitov attacks Scott but is driven off by two other squadmates, Dina Anne Forrest and Paul Beauregard.  Since the attack was observed by the barracks surveillance devices, Pope punishes Halitov by placing Scott in his charge, so that both will graduate from the Academy or wash out together.  Later Jarret is beaten by other cadets because he defends his brother.    This novel tells the story of Scott as he learns to be a soldier and a leader of soldiers.  When war breaks out between the Seven Systems and the Terran Alliances, he is placed in command of a unit and  gains actual experience in combat.  He is by no means an ideal officer, but learns from his mistakes.    This novel is loosely based on the circumstances among US Army officers prior to the Civil War.  The West Point graduates from the South were faced with conflicting loyalties and many later found themselves facing their former classmates in battle.  However, Scott faces a further conflict between opposing forces within the Seven Systems Alliance itself.    This story also explores the advantages and drawbacks of a conditioning process developed by the Racinians which provides a degree of control of the laws of nature, even to the extent of countering gravity.  While he has some superhuman capabilities, there are unforeseen consequences.    Recommended for anyone who enjoys Combat SF tales.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-06-03
1102522:US	49390985	R1FVJJ1QY53F0M	0380974606	858619462	Gilded Chain (Tale of the King's Blades)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Fat Man and His Loyal Knight	The Gilded Chain is the first novel in the King's Blades series.  The kings of Chival have found a unique way to ensure the loyalty of their personal guards:  they run a blade through the guard's heart.  With the aid of magic, the guard lives, but is totally bound to protect the life of his master until he dies, the master dies, or he is released.  Kings  sometime choose to bind such a guard to another.  These King's Blades are all trained at Ironhall on Starkmoor.    In this novel, an unbiddable and intractable boy is brought to Ironhall for admission by his grandfather.  The Grand Master tests him, finds him suitable and asks him if he wants to stay.  After accepting the offer, the boy decides to go against tradition, selecting Durendal as the name he will use in the Blades.  This is rather presumptuous, since the original Durendal had founded the order, and his fellow Blades have since thoroughly tested the worthiness of this second Durendal.    After Durendal becomes Second, the next to senior candidate, King Ambrose sends the Marquis of Nutting to become the Ward of a Blade.  The Prime and the Marquis are prepared for the ritual and all goes well, except that the Prime is dead.  While the Marquis is being noisily sick in the corner, Durendal double checks everything, but nothing is wrong.  Durendal then cajoles and threatens the Marquis into performing the ritual again, only with Durendal as the Blade.  This time the ritual works and now the Marquis is Durendal's Ward.    The next morning, Durendal leaves Ironhall in the Marquis' coach on the way to court.  He discovers that his Ward is about as worthless as he expected and takes measures to bring him to heel.  His introduction to court is rather exciting, with a sniffer mistaking the whiff of binding magic around him for an offensive conjuration, causing the guards to attack Durendal, to which he reacts as to a threat against his Ward and almost spits the first guard in the eye.  Fortunately, the sniffer recognizes her mistake in time for him to pull his lunge and all is settled with nobody hurt, even if the guards have had the scare of their lives.    The adventures of Durendal with his no-account Ward are framed by some events twenty years later, when he is Lord Roland and the Chancellor to the King.  One of his political rivals, the former inquisitor Kromman, manages to replace him as Chancellor and then tries to arrest him for treason, but finds that Roland has a newly bound Blade who is quite insistent that Krommon make no unusual moves.  Roland is more eager than otherwise to release his burden of office, for he has never been able to spend enough time with his wife and children.  Nonetheless, the whole affair is rather confusing.  Then his wife detects the stench of conjuration from the official papers and recognizes its origins.    This novel is the story of a group of swashbuckling swordsmen who are threatened more by political intrigue than force of arms.  Durendal is a three time holder of the King's Cup for his swordsmanship, but is more effective with his planning and organizational abilities, even as the Commander of the Guard.  As Chancellor, his primary duty is to keep the King from causing himself harm;  the King is a genius at political manipulation when he is calm, but not so when he loses his temper.    If you are thinking Henry VIII, you would probably be right on the money.  Ambrose has the same problem with siring an heir and goes through multiple wives.  He also has several wars going on simultaneously, one of which he provoked, yet refuses to end by apologizing.  The Blades call him the Fat Man behind his back, yet they remain steadfastly loyal even after they are released from their bindings.    Recommended for anyone who enjoys fantasy tales of political chicanery and intrigue with a steadfastly loyal hero.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-06-02
1103733:US	49390985	R2TZ9DKRKZSGBF	0312868952	245512363	Into the Darkness (World at War, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	War Is the Game of Kings and the Hell of Peasants	Into the Darkness (1999) is the first novel in the World At War fantasy series.  This storyline can be considered an allegory of World War II, but with magical instead of technological weapons.  As one result of this difference, there is much less variation in weapons and equipment, for everybody mostly uses the same magical repertory.  Also, the animal equivalent of vehicles has much less variety.  Thus, strategy and tactics are much more significant than the hardware per se.    During the Six Year war, Algarve lost the Duchy of Bari and highly resented the loss.  However, other neighboring nations are determined to keep Algarve from recovering the Duchy.  One of the background factors in international relations is the Kaunian Empire, long fallen, its descendants often despised, yet still influencing the culture of many of the belligerents.    In this novel, a generation later, the Duke has died and King Mezentio sends his troops into Bari.  Valmieri, Jelgava, Forthweg and Sibiu then declare war against Algrave.  Unkerlanter and Gyongyos are fighting in the Elsung Mountains.   Gyongyos and Kuusamo are fighting over Obuda Island.  Zuwayza is playing off Unkerlanter against Algrave, but is mainly focused on her border with Unkerlanter.  Lagoas is presently remaining neutral in this war.    All this fighting and diplomacy is told in terms of the participants.  Although the Kings and high ministers have their say, so do the farmers and scholars and other people of little import in the war, but of great significance to their families and friends.  There is the Fortwegian lad and Kaunian lass who are lovers, the Jelgavan marchioness, the Lagoan mage, the Unterkanter peasant, the Algarvian constable, and fighting men of every nationality.    As with his other war novels, the author dwells more upon the results of war than its causes:  the death and suffering, the injustices and sacrifices, the rhetoric and consequences.  The changes in names and geography help conceal thenationality of the participants, so that the reader can look at the situation with clearer vision.    Highly recommended for Turtledove fans and anyone else who enjoys tales of human characters trying to just carry on their lives despite great hardship and tragedy.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-06-01
1104554:US	49390985	R16Q4FA7AFQMZD	0886779758	755881554	The Second Summoning (The Keeper's Chronicles, No 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Teenage Angel ... and Demon	The Second Summoning (2001) is the second Fantasy novel in the Keeper's Chronicles series, following Summon the Keeper.  In the previous volume, the Keeper Claire Hansen has been summoned to the Elysian Fields Guest House, where there is a Hell hole in the basement and a failed Keeper, Sara, asleep in Room 6.  Claire falls in love with Dean, the handyman and cook, and also befriends Jacques, a ghost.  When Sara is awakened by Diana, Claire's sister, they have their hands full preventing Sara from using Dean as a virgin sacrifice in a ritual to control the hole, but Claire, Diana and Jacques prevail and the hole is sealed with Sara on the Hell side.    In this novel, Claire has been summoned to a rundown motel room in the States to lay the ghost of a woman who has decided to ignore the double standard on adultry that allows her husband to have numerous affairs.  Claire and her cat Austin have taken Dean along with them as chauffeur and companion.  The ghost provides a resounding display of explosive temper, which gets Claire to thinking, something she does too often and not very well, so she decides that a Keeper's life is too dangerous for a Bystander such as Dean to tag along with her.  As a result, she and Dean separate shortly after they return to Canada and both find themselves to be miserable without the other.    Finally, another Keeper takes Claire aside and focuses her attention on the consequences of her unilateral decision, so Claire contacts Dean and they reunite at the house of Claire's parents.  The reunion has some definite physical and metaphysical effects -- bright lights in the sky, the Earth moving, the manifestation of an angel and a demon in adolescent human form, etc. -- which they spend the rest of the story cleaning up and living down.    This novel is a run around in circles tale, with lots of humor and some romance.  Again, this story is mostly about relationships, including those of both the angel and the demon.  The finale also shows a degree of compassion, initiated by Diana, who is by no means as rigid a Keeper as Claire tends to be.    This story has the added attraction of producing a cat for Diana, who will soon will a full-time Keeper.  In the process, one learns that angels resemble cats, but with two legs and forelimbs capable of using a can opener.    Highly recommended to Huff fans and to anyone else who enjoys fantasy with a strong vein of humor and a few nuggets of romance.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-05-31
1104998:US	49390985	R3KYQRHKWRG1M6	0345457684	556713066	Altered Carbon (Takeshi Kovacs)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Tough Detective and Virtual Torture	Altered Carbon is a SF novel in the American detective story style.  It takes places at a time when humanity has spread to a few planets in other solar systems via slowboats.  However, humankind also has FTL communications, the ability to store and transfer digitized human personas, and the means to download such personas into sleeves:  human, clone, or synthetic bodies.    In this novel, Takeshi Kovacs is a retired Envoy, a super expediter who resolves offworld threats to human polities, often by violence.  As an Envoy, Kovacs had extensive experience in downloading into various sleeves.  Now he has the experience of resleeving on Earth, where few, if any, Envoys have been.  He has been contracted out to Laurens Bancroft, who was found dead in his own office and declared a suicide, but who insists that he would not have done such an act, particularly since he only lost 48 hours of experience.  Kovacs is to find the real cause of his death, whereupon he will be paid 100,000 UN dollars and his persona will be transmitted back to his home planet.    Leaving the download facility, Kovacs is intercepted by Lieutenant Ortega of the Bay City police.  He learns something about the case, but also discovers that the younger generations do not like the centuries old Meths -- Methuselahs -- such as Bancroft.  They have too much power and too much experience;  their lives are regulated by different rules than other people.    After meeting Bancroft, and his wife and friends, Kovacs tends to agree with Ortega.  However, even Meths have problems, such as Proposition 653, which requires any dead person, even Catholics, to be resleeved as needed, and if possible, to testify in court.      Then Kovacs meets Dimi the Twin in his hotel lobby.  He is introduced by the muzzle of Dimi's pistol on his neck and ordered to come along, but Kovacs pulls a fast trick that causes the hotel AI to cut loose at the kidnappers with a twin 20 mm cannon.  Although a bit of overkill, it does the job and Kovacs gets to meet Ortega again for another talk.    This novel builds upon several old themes in SF:  androids and clones, persona uploads, brain implants, etc., but the details are used in a very contemporary manner to drive a tale of immortality, free will, poverty, power, social degeneration, and corruption.  It may well breed sequels, but prior efforts to launch series about such tough detectives in SF settings have not been very successful.  The initial story oftens attracts readers with its rich futuristic background, but maybe the subsequent releases begin to feel stale?    This title has generated a fair amount of curiosity.  Somebody dining next to me in a restaurant actually interrupted my reading to ask what it meant.  Insofar as I can determine, altered carbon is a futuristic substance that provides enormous storage capabilities for digitized data.  Otherwise, it has no central importance to the novel.    Highly recommended to anyone who enjoys American style detective tales in a SF setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-05-31
1106416:US	49390985	RP838GRD6IMKH	0886777844	787755626	Summon the Keeper (Keeper's Chronicles)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Between the Hunk and Hell	Summon the Keeper is the first novel in the Keeper's Chronicles series.  The Keepers maintain the balance between good and evil.  Their primary tool is possibility itself.  Their task is to repair breaches between the Realities, such as here and Hell, as well as between the Realities and the Otherside, a universe of unresolved possibilities.  Their companions are cats.    In this novel, Claire Hansen is summoned to the Elysian Fields Guest House, arriving in a torrential downpour.  The host resembles a gnome as he signs her in and gives her the keys to Room 1.  Claire has a horrendous headache and a buzz in her ears, so she and her cat Austin retire early.    The next day, she awakes feeling much better and the summoning has disappeared sometime in the night.  Going downstairs, she finds Dean, the handyman and cook, preparing breakfast and learns that she is now the owner of the guest house.  When she responds with skepticism, Dean shows her his note from Augustus Smythe and then takes her to the owner's rooms, where a large manila envelope contains half a dozen documents, including a bill of sale, and a short note: \\"Stay out of Room 6\\".  After hacksawing the padlock and breaking open the door lock, she discovers that Room 6 houses a middle aged woman, asleep with a thick layer of dust covering her.  Later, she finds that the furnace room does not contain a firebox, but rather a hole to Hell.    Claire learns that Smythe is a Cousin, a sort of Keeper with much less power, who has been monitoring the Hell hole for decades.  Checking the site log, she determines that three Keepers had originally blocked the hole, but the Keeper monitoring it had died suddenly.  Sara, the women in Room 6, was hurriedly brought in as the replacement Keeper, but she had gone bad and tried to gain control of it for her own selfish purposes in 1945.  Two other Keepers had been summoned to the site, caught her in mid ritual, forced her to sleep, and used her powers to temporarily block thehole while they continued on to the war zone.  Now Claire had been given the whole mess and she definitely does not want to spend the rest of her career monitoring the hole.    Claire soon finds that the site has a resident ghost, Jacques, and either an imp or, as everybody else asserts, multicolored mice.  On top of everything else, she starts to really like Dean, but he is seven years younger that herself and quite naive.  On the other hand, Jacques is very sexy and knows how to treat a woman.  Furthermore, both the living man and the dead one are attracted to her and start to compete for her attention.  With all this sexual energy and frustration to sublimate, Claire and Dean, with some help from Jacques, make great strides in redecorating the guest house.    Claire also has acquired a next-door neighbor;  Mrs. Abrams has orange hair, a strong voice, a long nose, and a thick skin, but a poor memory for names.  She also has Baby, a hound from Hell, a Doberman that likes to play with mailmen, but hates cats.  To make life complete, Claire has a sister, Diana, also a Keeper, who is a decade younger, but much more powerful and, in her own mind, infinitely wiser.    This novel is a mystery story with a strong element of humor.  There is the running dialogue between Claire and Austin;  never argue with a cat, for you can't win.  Then there are the situational jokes involving Vampires, Werewolves, Greek gods, and Halloween trick or treaters.  Since the milieu is Canadian, there are the French Canadian and New Foundland jokes, not to mention the throwaway \\"Bob's your uncle\\" remark.  And then there are a few American jokes.  But, most of all, there are the contributions of Hell itself.    This story doesn't have a strong plot, but is focused mainly on relationships.  Of course, there is the lover triad among Claire, Dean and Jacques, but also the interactions between Claire and Austin and those within the Hansen family.    Highly recommended to Huff fans and to anyone else who enjoys fantasy with a strong vein of humor.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-05-30
1106600:US	49390985	R3ICP22W2LFOGH	0345443756	929858796	Rally Point (Demontech, Book 2)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Rabble in Arms	Rally Point (2003) is the second novel of the Demontech series, following Onslaught.  In the previous volume, Spinner and Haft have escaped from the Jokapcul invasion of New Bally and start their trek northeastward through Bostia, intending to cross Skragland and then turn south to the port of Zorba City, where they can get passage to Frangeria.  After a bit of excitement over a hungry gray tabur, a large feline, they meet Silent, a Tangonine giant, who joins them in combat against a Jokapcul unit at the Skragland border.  Unfortunately, one of the Jokapcul gets away, so Haft and Spinner take three of the Jokapcul horses and ride east.      After a spot of trouble at the Burnt Man Inn, Spinner and Haft depart in the company of the Golden Girl, Doli, Zweepee, and Fletcher.  A few days later, Wolf starts following them and, occasionally, leading them to battle sites.  They follow the path of a Zorban unit and arrive just as a Jokapcul company attacks them.  Although they drive off the enemy for a short while, the Jokapcul soon return and are wearing down their small group when Silent roars into the Jokapcul rear and sends them tumbling like bowling pins.  After finishing off the enemy, they add the horses to their own and continue on their way, gathering fighting men and some refugees as they travel.    In this novel, the Dark Prince demands that the Jokapcul magicians find out more about the bandits attacking their men in the north.  One of the mages sends out a hive of bees to hunt for the group led by Haft and Spinner.    Meanwhile, the group has been fleeing east from the Jokapcul advance, but soon discover that they have insufficient food and water for travel across the Eastern Waste.  They follow the borders of the waste south toward the Princedons.  They now have enough fighting men to make up a reinforced platoon:  Zorbans, Skraglanders, and a few sea soldiers who have escaped from Zorba City.  They are beginning to pick off small units of Jokapcul and any bandits foolish enough to attack them.  They even rescue a Skragland unit from a bandit ambush.  Then they come to the town of Eikby.    While Spinner and Haft are negotiating with the town mayor, the group camps nearby and prepares a meal.  Shortly thereafter, numerous bandits attack the camp, deliberately inflicting injuries to several women and children, but are driven off by the returning fighting men.  The bandit gang is well known to the townsfolk and the group are warned that they will gather as many other bandit gangs as possible and return to attack them once again as retaliation for previous losses.  The town mayor wants to send the newcomers away, but is overruled by the Commander of the Eikby Guard.  The townsfolk start preparing for an attack by the bandits.    Then refugees from Penston brings word that the Jokapcul have taken that city and are coming up the peninsula toward Eikby.    This novel shows the development of Haft and Spinner into leaders as they accept responsibility for more and more refugees and finally for a full town.  While they still have a duty to report the invasion, they can't just walk off and leave these men, women and children to their own device.    Spinner is especially conflicted by the number of people who have died under their leadership.  He can't see where these losses could be prevented and assumes that his incomprehension proves his lack of competence.  On the other hand, Haft still has a problem with impetuosity.  He clearly sees the enemy's weaknesses, but fails to consider the consequences of accident and error.  However, the fighting begins to teach him a little more about prior planning and, in particular, the value of contingency planning.    Recommended for Sherman fans and anyone else who enjoys ground combat in a fantasy setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-05-29
1106955:US	49390985	R2WAIDAU3IB66P	0671499424	289966913	The Shattered World	Books	4	16	18	N	N	The Tomb of the Necromancer	The Shattered World is the first novel in a duology, followed by The Burning Realm.  \\"There was once a beautiful world of green and gentle continents ...  Shining cities were built by the hand of man, and empires rose and fell.  In measureless caverns beneath the ground, an inhuman race known as the Chtons ... pursued their own ways ... the world was shattered by a cataclysm that sent the fragments spinning into the void ...  A cabal of sorcerers ... provided an envelope of air ... and created runestones ... that provided weightfuness on the surfaces of the fragnents and kept them orbiting each other ... \\"<br />In this novel, the thief Beron is caught with the stolen goods on him, found guilty, and remanded to the custody of Ardatha Demonhand for punishment.  She informs him that the trial was really a ruse, for she wants him to steal a talisman from Pandrogas, the master of Darkhaven.  In return, Ardatha promises to remove the curse from him that forces him to occasionally shapechange into a bear.  Unknown to him, the talisman is the runestone for Darkhaven and it is being stolen for the Circle, of which she is a member.<br />Marquis Tahrynyar has fled to Darkhaven with his wife Amber after an assassination attempt by his enemies.  He has been on Darkhaven for a year and during that time Amber has begun to love Pandrogas.  While he is not happy about the affair, Tahrynyar owes his life to Pandrogas, who rescued him from the Demogorgon, the ruler of all Chtons, after his ill-advised reading from the Red Grimoire.<br />This story is a quest for the lost runestone.  Pandrogas also searches for the magic of the Necromancer, while Amber comes to realize that she too is capable of magic.<br />Recommended for Reaves fans and anyone else who enjoys tales of sorcery and intrigue.	2003-05-29
1108295:US	49390985	RQFLFAT3HXBDR	0743435567	102618607	The Prince	Books	5	89	91	N	N	A Future That Will Not Be	The Prince (2002) is an omnibus edition containing the four novels of the Falkenberg's Legion series.  These novels are based on the CoDominium universe in which the US and USSR joined forces against the rest of the world and started colonizing planets, mostly with convicts and welfare clients.  However, the CoDominium itself was not very stable and could have self-destructed at any time.  Only the Fleet was holding together civilization.    In Falkenberg's Legions (1990), the first novel in the series, John Christian Falkenberg the Third joins the CoDominium Armed Services and serves on his first and his last assignments as a CoDominium officer.  The novel itself incorporates two previous novels.  West of Honor describes the admission of Falkenberg into the CoDominium service and his first field command on Arrarat with the 42nd Line Marine Regiment, where they fought against a former gang, the Mission Hills Protective Association.  The Mercenary describes Falkenberg's last field command in the service with a cadre of men from the disbanded 42nd on a mission to stabilize the government of Hadley and the subsequent formation of the Legion.  Additional material has been incorporated in this fixup to enrich the backstory.    In Prince of Mercenaries (1989), the second novel in the series, the Legion accepts a contract on Tanith to wipe out some pirate gangs and to quell a tax boycott by opposition planters who have employed  another mercenary unit.  Then the bulk of the Legion leaves Tanith on a mission to New Washington, where Colonel Falkenberg marries a local women and retires.  This novel is a fixup of several shorter pieces with a framing story about a visit from Prince Lysanter of Sparta to discuss a contract for an advise and instruct mission.    In Go Tell the Spartans (1991), the third novel in the series, the Legion sends the 5th Battalion on a mission to Sparta to help train local troops, but they arrive only to discover that they are facing an insurrection.In Prince of Sparta (1993), the fourth novel in the series, the 5th Battalion resumes its training mission after helping the Spartan troops to defeat the insurrection.  However, enemy units are still conducting low level guerilla strikes and the Royal forces are trying to uncover the enemy supply lines.    This series portrays a wide variety of military operations and tactics with units of regimental strength or less;  CoDominium unit sizes are limited because of mission parameters and funding whereas mercenary unit sizes are restricted by the CoDominium laws of war.  Larger units are allowed or required only in the nationalist forces on Earth.    This series also reveals various aspects of military operations other than combat, including economics, logistics and intelligence.  Also, it exposes the limits of military power:  the power to kill is not the same as the power to compel.  For the most part, these stories were inspired by historical situations;  for example, the suppression of the Nika riots by Belisarius in 532 AD.    Recommended for Pournelle & Stirling fans and anyone else who enjoys SF tales of military forces in an alternate future.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-05-28
1110228:US	49390985	R2QMEOV3EEFA1W	0441010652	440065240	Something from the Nightside (Nightside, Book 1)	Books	4	20	23	N	N	A Compelling Tale	Something From the Nightside (2003) is a fantasy detective story.  It is a pastiche of the Sam Spade, Philip Marlowe and Lew Archer styles and is both a satire and a tribute to the genre.  The detective lives in his cramped office in a seedy London neighborhood, with a lawyer's office on one side and a dentist's on the other.  The door has a frosted glass window with a flaking name -- \\"Taylor Investigations\\" -- and a bullethole.  On a very wet and dark evening, the investigator is listening to an angry creditor on the phone when a good looking dame comes in to hire him.    In this novel, John Taylor is a finder.  He doesn't do insurance work, divorces, or solve crime, but he can find anything.  It is just one of his talents.  Moreover, he is from the Nightside and there he has a third, Private, eye.    Joanna Barrett hires John Taylor to find her daughter.  Joanna has already been to the police and the big agencies, to no avail.  Now she has come to Taylor as the result of a tip saying that only he could find Catherine in the Nightside.  For 50,000 pounds up front and another 50,000 if she is returned, Taylor agrees to find the girl.  However, Joanna has one condition:  she is to go along on the hunt.    Taylor begins by entering the Underground;  all this is new to Joanna, so he buys the tickets and shows her how to use them to get into the station.  Once in, he follows his instincts til he finds a sign in Enochian, an artificial language developed to talk to angels, that points the way to a maintenance closet, where he picks up a phone and says \\"Nightside\\".  The wall then opens into a tunnel leading to the Nightside of the station, where they catch a train.    At this point, it has become obvious that John Taylor is very well known in the Nightside and not much liked by the majority of the population.  However, he is feared;  in his words, \\"I could have been a contender\\".  Enough so that the lowlifes recognize him and back off from confrontations.    This novel islinked to Shadows Fall through internal reference and to   the author's other urban fantasy, Drinking Midnight Wine, through its similarities in setting and ambience.  However, this one seems to be somewhat of an experiment in the classic American detective style.    Some reviewers of Drinking Midnight Wine objected to the emphasis on character development as opposed to action.  The action in this story will probably fulfill their expectations in that regard, although the main character is still nicely developed.  The other characters are only minimally fleshed out, yet much more than cardboard.    Recommended for Green fans and anyone else who enjoys detective stories within an urban fantasy.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-05-27
1112457:US	49390985	R39OGQB9OB58GQ	0684923025	829960059	Rocket Ship Galileo	Books	5	12	17	N	N	Boys Club Builds Rocket For Moon Trip	Rocket Ship Galileo (1947) is the first novel in the author's juvenile series, depicting the initial flight to the Moon.  Published in 1947, the story is now the history of an alternate timeline, in which the atomic weapons used to end World War II were succeeded by a more vigorous development of nuclear power as well as the growth of internationalism into a more powerful form of world government.  Rocket ships are used routinely to carry passengers and freight to the ends of the Earth.    In this story, Doctor Donald Morris Cargraves has designed a system of power generation that is too powerful for existing turbines to handle.  However, it would make an excellent rocket engine.  He takes the idea to his corporate bosses, but they reject the technology as unlikely to have an adequate return on investment.  His corporation owns the rights to power generation, but not those to rocket propulsion.  Cargraves resigns, with no hard feelings on either side, to work on the idea.    While he is considering his options, Cargraves decides to visit his sister and nephew.  However, Art is with his friends, Ross and Morrie, at the Galileo Club test site, trying out a new model rocket, so Cargraves drives out to meet them. The boys are running a test as he approaches and have set the engine to full thrust.  All is going well until, suddenly, the engine hesitates and then explodes.  After the boys have checked the remains and covered the instruments and test stand, they leave only to find Cargraves face down at the gate.  They call an ambulance which takes him to the hospital.    The next day, the boys have gathered all the pieces of the rocket and tidied up the site when Cargraves shows up with a turban bandage on his head.  They show him their clubhouse, with its workbench, equipment, logs, and reference books as well as a few SF novels and magazines.  They talk for a while and then eat lunch at Ross's house with his father and mother.  Afterwards, they return to the clubhouse and Cargraves suggests that they might want to join him in constructing a nuclear rocket ship to fly to the Moon.    This novel is both dated and ahead of its time.  The dialogue is most typical of the time, yet the technology is futuristic even today.  Most  of the reference to nuclear power may seem quaint, since the safeguards mandated by today's regulatory agencies are obviously lacking.  Also, the references to walking on the glassy ground that was directly below a nuclear blast makes my toes curl.  However, the military conducted nuclear tests with Army personnel in trenches within a few miles of ground zero during the early 1950's.  Moreover, the risks of induced radioactivity were not really known at that time.    The concept of heating a metal to propel spaceships is not, in itself, a fantasy.  Such rocket engines have been designed and seem feasible.  The problems, however, are somewhat understated in this novel.  For one thing, a nuclear pile that was not shielded on all sides would never be permitted in our society.  In addition, the legal issues of allowing a nuclear powered rocket to take off, spewing material out the exhaust that had been exposed to hard radiation, would be formidable;  induced radioactivity may have a short half-life, but still detectable, and some people have hysterics if the sun is shining too bright.    Another aspects of the novel is, sadly, unrealistic in today's educational environment.  Where would you find three high school boys who have studied differential equations and mathematical logic.  There are probably some out there, but not many of them would also be able to weld a seam, turn a piece on a lathe and wire a console.  The author had high expectations for the public educational system, but THAT turned out to be fantasy.    This novel is the inspiration for Destination Moon, originally scripted by Robert Heinlein and Alford Van Ronkel, but the final script was much modified from the original.  Nevertheless, Heinlein wasemployed as the technical advisor, so most of the realism in the movie comes from his efforts.    Highly recommended for Heinlein fans and anyone else who in interested in the origins of modern science fiction.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-05-25
1113328:US	49390985	R1O900H1AKR4HZ	0380818388	717355996	The Wreck of Heaven (The World Gates, Book 2)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Death Can't Keep a Good Woman Down	The Wreck of Heaven is the second novel in the World Gates series, following Memory of Fire. In the previous volume, Molly McColl has died to revive her nephew Jake, her half-sister Lauren Hotchkiss Dane has killed a rron as well as the traitorous Sentinels in Oria, and Sheriff Eric MacAvery and his deputy Pete Stark have killed the Sentinel traitors in Cat Creek. Lauren and Jake are back in Cat Creek, having attended Molly's funeral, and are now trying to recover from all the trauma. Pete and Lauren have been inducted by the survivors into the Cat Creek Sentinel's circle.    In this novel, Jake refuses to go near the big mirror in their hallway and is even unhappy entering the kitchen. He has begun to talk again, but he is much too passive. She has just returned from the store and Pete has dropped by, so Lauren asks him to sit on the stairs with Jake as she puts up the groceries. Pete teases Jake about a story that he had once liked, but now scares him. Pete insists the scary pumpkin is saying that he has a cookie in his tummy and Jake knows that it is really saying \\"Boo, Boo\\". They both get the giggles and Jake even lets Pete carry him into the kitchen without protest.    Then Lauren discovers a messenger from Oria in her kitchen and quickly maneuvers Pete out of the house. The messenger states that Molly has returned from the dead through the powers of the Vodi necklace. Lauren quickly makes arrangements to be gone for a while and takes Jake with her to Oria. She finds Molly at Copper House and they start preparing for their roles as planned by their parents. However, Jake is more precocious than expected and manages to open a link leading to his deceased father in the afterlife.    Pete finds a note from Lauren on his kitchen table and decides that she probably used a small gate to deliver it. Although she writes that she is taking Jake to visit his grandparents, Pete notices that she has left her primary keyring with him and, after visiting the house, finds that the car is parked in a shed and that nothing much is missing. He reckons that foul play is unlikely, given the evidence, and that Lauren probably has been called back to Oria. To cover for her, he passes on the note to the other Sentinels and adds a few embellishments.    This novel extends the storyline to explain the difference between the old gods and the dark gods as well as the nature of the disasters that have destroyed worldline after worldline. We also learn something more about the rron and their motivation.    The romance between Molly and Seolar develops and even continues after her death and resurrection, but not without some hard moments. Seolar knows that his duty to the Veyar is primary in his life, but now he begins to realize that, without Molly, his life will not have any joy or satisfaction.    This novel is full of action and excitement. Dangers arise and are handled somehow. Once again, the story focuses on the interpersonal relationships between Molly and Seolar as well as between Lauren and Pete, but not as much so as the previous novel.    One interesting scene is the confrontation between Lauren and the Administrator in the Afterlife. Maybe a bit of catharsis for the author after a bad encounter with bureaucracy. Probably a good thing that she didn't write about Hell.    Recommended for Lisle fans and anyone who else enjoys a new approach to the salvation of the universe plot.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-05-24
1114229:US	49390985	RVHA2J0CJXS9E	0380978032	254186423	The Assassins of Tamurin	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Far Away Places With Strange Sounding Names	The Assassins of Tamurin is a fantasy novel about politics and love.  More than twenty-four centuries ago, the \\"Durdana came in ships from a snowy land far across the sea and sailed far up the Pearl River until we found the place appointed for us ... There we built our first villages in what was to become ... our realm, Durdane.\\"  Thirteen centuries ago, the Founder established the chief city, Seyhan the Luminous.  Then, a century ago, the Exiles came through Jugen Pass, fought for a warring Emperor, and then turned against him to conquer half of Durdana.  The remainder is split into an imperial successor state, Bethiya, and ten Despotates.  When the leader of the Exiles died, the conquered part of Durdana is divided into six Exile kingdoms.<br />Bethiya is ruled by the Sun Lords.  Several years previously, the two great bloodlines in Bethiya, the Danjians and the Tanyelis, fought at the Water Terrace of the Sun Lord's palace and killed off most of the males in both families.  The Chancellor at that time, Halis Geray, persuaded the Council of Ministers to select someone from another bloodline as Sun Lord.  Terem Rathai was choosen because he was from a distinguished military family which had dwindled to a very few;  in order to reduce favoritism, one condition for receiving the throne was that all his relatives, except his mother, would be banned from Kurjain, the capital city.<br />In this novel, Lale is an eleven year old orphaned girl living with foster parents in Riversong, a small village at the end of the road.  One day, she is sent with the communal sewing needles to the Bee Goddess's priestess, but loses them crossing a creek.  When she returns, she is almost killed by her foster parents and neighbors before the village priest can stop the beating.  They sentence her to Negation -- i.e., everyone acts as if she does not exist -- but food and water is left out for her use.  At first she enjoys the rest and freedom, but later she begins to feel lonely and disassociated from village life and realizes that she must leave or die.  She announces her intentions and needs to the village and they just happen to leave a few supplies lying around for her to take.<br />On the road to elsewhere, she briefly encounters Master Lim, who is a traveling bard, and renews their acquaintance, but he is killed by bandits.  After they steal almost everything and leave, she lays out Master Lim and continues on her way.  She soon meets a party of soldiers escorting a woman and three girls.  The woman is Makina Seval, the Despotana of Tamurin, and she invites Lale to join her school for orphans in Chiran.  There the Despotana adopts her, gives her the surname Navari, and assigns her a birthday, as she has done for each orphan in the school.  Moreover, she assigns a tutor to teach her to read and then places her in classes.<br />Part of her training has been the history of Durdana, taught by the Despotana, with emphasis on the death of the Despotana's child at the Water Terrace.  She explains to the girls that the wicked Chancellor encouraged the evil Tanyelis to butcher her husband's family and her child, the future Sun Lord.  She also points out that the current Sun Lord is a usurper.  She encourages them to hate the Chancellor and the current Sun Lord, but ensures that they will never to tell anyone else how she and they feel.<br />Six years later, Lale completes her schooling and, even though exempted as a girl, takes the Universal Examination, on which she does very well.  After the school completion ceremony, the Despotana gives each girl a choice of careers, but Lale has to choose between apprenticing with the Tradition Tutoress or serving the Moon Lady at Three Springs.  Moreover, she cannot remain with her best friend, Dilara, if she studies to replace the Tradition Tutoress.  Both resignly choose Three Springs, but find out after they arrive that it is really a school for spies and assassins.  <br />After years of training at Three Springs, Lale is sent to Master Luasin's acting school in Istana.  Months later, Lale travels as an apprentice with the Elder Company to Kurjain, where she has been ordered to gain the attention of the Sun Lord.  She closely resembles his newly dead wife, so she makes the resemblance a matter of general gossip.  Terem sends for her after hearing reports of her appearance.  They spend a hour or two every few days just discussing a wide range of topics and gradually they fall in love.  Eventually she becomes his Inamorata, less than a wife and more that a mistress.<br />In their discussions, Terem describes his plans to restore the former lands and unity of the old Empire.  With her training in political affairs, she realizes that he may be the only one who can accomplish this and, without such unity, Durdana is doomed to either fade away or fall to the Exile kingdoms.  Her love for her homeland is conflicting with her love for the Despotana.  Then she discovers who her family had been.<br />This novel strongly resembles a classical Chinese tale of the Time of Troubles and the invasion of the nomad hordes, but it also reflects the landscapes and urban scenes of Renaissance Venice and the Netherlands.  It is a tale of exotic places, with strange sounding names.  It is a romance that doesn't dwell upon love, yet the various loves in Lale's life -- Durdana itself, the Despotana, and Terem -- produce her turmoil of conflicting emotions.<br />The story flows well, with most plot twists hinted well ahead of time.  Even the actions of Nilang, the Despotana's sorceress, are consistent throughout the tale.  The story is also filled with descriptions of sights and smells, so that the reader can easily imagine the surroundings.  It is apparent that the authors are not rank amateurs at writing fantasy.  I certainly hope that they continue writing in this field.<br />Highly recommended to anyone who enjoys tales of foreign climes, desperate adventures, and divided loyalties.	2003-05-23
1114347:US	49390985	RBHVYI56WX0VE	0671653865	196655762	The Burning Realm	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Lovers Parted by Demons	The Burning Realm (1988) is the second Fantasy novel in The Shattered World series.  In the previous volume, Pandrogas has found the Necromancer and learned both his true history and his source of magic.  While saving Pandrogas and Amber, Beorn has shapechanged too long and lost himself to his bear persona.  Pandrogas and Amber take Beorn's bear-form to Tamboriyon and set him free in the forest.  They agree to part for a commonyear, Pandrogas to return to Darkhaven to guide the new students of necromancy and Amber to stay on Tamboriyon to learn how to use her own powers.    In this novel, the commonyear has passed and both Pandrogas and Amber prepare for their rendezvous.  Pandrogas takes ship from Darkhaven, but is intercepted by Trisandela, the Lady of Bats.  Amber has obtained the rank of Conjuress in the Taggyn Saer system and is uncertain about her feelings for Pandrogas, but returns to the meeting place.  When she arrives, Pandrogas is not there and does not come that day.  After some soul searching, Amber leaves Tamboriyon to hunt for him.    Meanwhile, Kan Konar, cloakfighter from Typor's Fist, has escaped from the web of Zhormallion, the Spider Lord, on Xoth.  After reaching the surface, he cannot find his cloak (which has been claimed by Tahrynyar) but does find a damaged dragonship, a chase boat from one of the huge hunting ships.  He hears someone, or something, coming and hides within the boat, which is hurled into the Abyss by a cacodemon.  After a while, he comes out and looks around, only to find the Lady of the Bats in the boat with him.  He learns that she has eased his escape after he has freed himself from the web.  Apparently she is just playing Chton politics.    Mirren, a werewolf and thief, has survived the sinking of a ship from the tsunami caused by a lesser fragment plunging into the Ythan Ocean on Rhynne. She washes ashore on a small island with an abandoned wizard's tower, former home of Stonebrow, deceased leader of the Circle.  She finds seawater stains, fish, and damp everywhere from the tsunami, but also some dry food and clothing.  She gathers some money and jewelry and convinces a pair of would-be plunderers to take her to the mainland.    Kyra is an assassin on Zarhenna who bungles an assignment.  When Mirren applies to be an assassin, Kyra is assigned as her instructor.  Since this is a demotion in status, Kyra is determined to make Mirren into a successful assassin.  However, Mirren also bungles her first assignment and flees from the Guild With No Name into the labyrinth of Chton tunnels within the fragment.  Kyra is given an final assignment, find and kill Mirren or never come back.    This novel is a mystery quest with several storylines.  Most are soon intertwined with the Lady of Bats in her effort to dominate the Chtons.  However, Trisandela's plan encounters a setback as a third party joins the competition for Chton leadership.    Recommended for Reaves fans and anyone else who enjoys high sorcery and low politics, with a smidgen of romance.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-05-23
1115087:US	49390985	R20L7BEV8NIQGX	0743435966	157496295	Here There Be Dragonnes	Books	5	51	52	N	N	Dragon Stories	Here There Be Dragonnes is an omnibus editon of three novels:  The Unlikely One, Pigs Don't Fly, and Master of Many Treasures.  These three novels are prequels to Dragonne's Eg.    The Unlikely Ones tells of a quest by the girl Thing, the crow Corby, the toad Puddy, the kitten Moglet and the fish Pisky.  They meet a hornless unicorn and a cursed knight on the road.  All have been hexed by an evil witch and are seeking aid from the Dragon of Black Mountain.    Pigs Don't Fly is the story of Summer, who is orphaned at the age of seventeen.  She leaves home with only a few coins, a ring said to be made from an unicorn's horn, and a sledge full of supplies.  When she places the ring on her finger, it tingles, but she notices nothing else unusual until her dog starts talking to her.  She soon acquires an entourage of a blind knight with amnesia, a winged pig, and other animals.  Her journey then starts to become very strange.    Master of Many Treasures is the continuation of Summer's story.  She is determined to find her dragon.  She forges papers declaring her as an apprentice of Master Spicer sent to Venice to learn the trade.  She is pretending to be Master Summer, a boy, for girls aren't allow to become apprentices.  Only her dog, Growch, knows who and what she really is, or so she believes.    These tales consists of one independent story and a duology.  All three share a common ambiance;  all are quest tales, all involve dragons, all concern young heroines who have a certain pragmatic approach to life, and all feature animals of various kinds.  The first two also include disabled knights.  All have the author's deft touch with characterization.    The heroines of these stories remind me of Kilisha, the young wizard's apprentice, in Watt-Evans' Ithanalin's Restoration.  They don't just stand around and worry about the hugeness of the task;  these younglings start working on each segment, one after another, until the job is completed.    Some reviewers have criticized one or more of these tales as being either too full of minute details or of being too empty of minute details.  Obviously, neither party would be satisfied with the other's recommendations, but the author's more moderate course does not seems to please either party.  As for me, I thoroughly enjoyed the author's choices in this matter.    A related criticism has to do with the swiftness of the narrative and thus is related to the previous criticism.  The author initally lays a solid foundation for character development and then speeds up the action, but never to a breakneck pace.  Once again, I concur with the author.  If you don't like her choices, don't read her books.  Please don't try to change her, for she can and does produce readable stories.  Critics can rarely say the same.    Recommended to Brown fans and anyone else who enjoys spunky heroines who accept responsibilities and thrive on them.     -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-05-22
1115536:US	49390985	R3CHLTO6HEMHZG	0553579347	794347363	Beyond the Pale (The Last Rune, Book 1)	Books	4	10	13	N	N	... It's What You Do With It	Beyond the Pale (1998) is the first Fantasy novel in the Last Rune series.  Castle City, Colorado, is an old mining town that has not changed much since the mines petered out a hundred years before.  The Mine Shaft Saloon, owned by Travis Wilder, is one of the century-old establishments, although now serving a much tamer type of clientele:  the local book club instead of a bunch of drunk, lustful miners.  Lost tourists will sometimes find their way to the Saloon, but not very many.    In this novel, Travis notices that strange events are happening around him: the very realistic-looking billboard, the chime of bells, the laughing shadow within the ruins of the old orphanage, and the man in black in front of the ruins.  There is also the big circus tent in a field next to the road for Brother Cy's Apocalyptic Traveling Salvation Show.    Later, Travis receives a phone call from Jack Graystone in which Jack declares that he is in grave ...  and the phone goes dead.  When his truck won't start, Travis walks over to the Magician's Attic.  There Jack tells him that a darkness is coming and that he is being hunted.  Jack plans to leave town but, as Travis is leaving, a bright glare like a searchlight comes rushing toward them.  Jack orders Travis back inside and gives him a highly decorated stiletto to carry.  An electric humming comes from the other side of the front door and the door knob turns right, then left, and right again.  Then the door is hit twice hard enough to shake it.      Travis is paralyzed with fear, but Jack roars his name and calls him over to the cellar steps.  The front door crashes open in a spray of splinters.  Jack pulls Travis inside, closing and barring the door behind them, takes him over to another door, tells him it leads to a garden shed out back, and pushes him through.  Jack flees through the tunnel and up the ladder just in time to see hot, bright light shining out of the building.  Then there is an explosion and flames start erupting outthe windows.    Meanwhile, Grace Beckett is an emergency room doctor at Denver Memorial Hospital. It's been a long day already and then an ambulance brings in a man with two bullets in him and a big, dense object directly in front of his heart.  They lose his pulse and defib fails, so Grace opens his chest to massage his heart, but he has only a fist-shaped lump of metal where his heart should of been.  Then he dies.  The body is taken to the morgue, but later returns to the emergency room under his own power.    The walking corpse kills or maims anyone who gets in his way, including a policemen who is thrown, hard, against the wall.  A little old lady is stuck in her wheelchair as the corpse nears the outside doors and Grace knows that it will kill her.  She pulls the pistol from the cop's body and fires three shots into it, pulping the brain.  The man with the iron heart topples to the floor.    This novel is about another reality on the other side of the boundary.  Eldh is a world where magic works and advanced technology is either forgotten or never learned.  There a monstrous evil is close to breaking the Last Rune and ending the world as we know it.  All that is missing is the Runebreaker.    The author combines a number of familiar concepts into an unusual tale of sword and sorcery:  alternate worlds, powerful runes, magic stones, enchanted weapons, gods and goddesses, long lost noble heirs, secret societies, angels and demons, and friendly emperors.  It is something like a quest game -- the author has previously written in that field --  where the immediate objective is to find a clue to the next level, but so much happens that one loses track of the final goal.  The characters also find out things about themselves and discover some new talents and powers, as well as finding clues and objects that facilitate the quest.    A goodly number of reviewers think that the author is too derivative and most mention Tolkien, Donaldson or Jordan.  I remember when Tolkien finally published The Fellowship of the Ring twenty years after The Hobbit.  Maybe most readers don't know or care, but Tolkien deliberately set out to write an epic tale using the ancient myths of the British Isles.  None of the elements or characters were without precursors in legends and folktales.  It was the British equivalent of Virgil's Aeneid, a copy of Homer's Iliad and Odyssey.  Nonetheless, this derivative work became famous itself, much like the Aeneid and another British mythical patische, L'Morte d'Arthur.  It's not what you got that counts, but what you do with it.    Highly recommended to Anthony fans and anyone else who enjoys tales of adventure and discovery.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-05-22
1116413:US	49390985	R30YFFUYQPJLTM	0786253398	407524718	American Beauty: Stories	Books	4	13	13	N	N	All American Tales	American Beauty (2003) is the author's fourth collection of stories.  These ten stories are all related in some way to contemporary America.    Agape Among the Robots is a story of robots absorbing love through example.  Her Own Private Sitcom is an extension of the idea that the world is a stage.  Green Acres is an alternate history of the hemp plant in this country.  Missing Time is a multiverse/time travel story in which the Mayor gets to second guess his actions.  Graceland is a Riverworld tale about the immortality of rock music.    Jake and the Enemy is a story of a dog protecting his turf from a robot.  Warning, Warning is an explanation, of sorts, for the TV show Lost in Space.  The Fine Art of Watching is a tale of the difference between surveillance and perception.  A Walk Across Mars makes a case for the media not always telling everything it knows.  Tom Swift and His Humongous Mechanical Dude is an indictment of current parenting techniques.    I must admit that the author's short stories often unsettle me to some extent.  He does have a way to approaching things from an unexpected direction, but that is an admirable trait in any author in any genre.  However, he sometimes put an extra sharp edge to his scalpel that cuts a little too deep for my taste.  His short works are not very pleasant at times, but make good points.    Recommended to Steele fans and anyone who enjoys satire with a sharp edge and a bit of refined wit.	2003-05-21
1116544:US	49390985	R2B42B71DRJPIY	0671480286	894162627	Sum of All Men (The Runelords, Book 1)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Festival of the Earth King	The Sum of All Men (1998) is the first Fantasy novel in the Runelords series.  In this world, the endowments of Dedicates can be transferred via forcibles to other persons;  e.g., the abilities, strengths and other attributes of contributing individuals can be removed and passed on through magical irons.  For example, soldiers may have multiple endowments of strength and metabolism while nobles may have multiple endowments of brawn and stamina.  However, these endowments are bestowed only for the lifetime of the Dedicates, so they must be kept alive and protected from harm or their endowments will vanish from the recipients.    The kings of Rofehaven are uneasy, for Raj Ahten, the Wolf Lord, has conquered all the twenty-two kingdoms of Indhopal and is now poised to invade either the barbarians of Inkarra or the Rofehaven kingdoms.  The  kings of Rofehaven are already preparing for war.    In this novel, Price Gabron Val Orden is visiting Bannisferre to study Heredon and to seek the hand of Princess Iome Sylvarresta.  He visits the south market to sense its many wares and is contemplating a wine chiller when, suddenly, a young woman takes his hand.  Since he is wearing the guise of a rich merchant's son, he decides that she is proposing marriage.  Her family has given her two extra endowments of beauty and another of wit so that she can make a good marriage.      After a very oblique conversation, Myrrima discovers his identity and, confused and abashed, tries to break off the conversation, but he persuades her to continue to talk for a while more and soon notices that Borenson, his bodyguard, is very interested in her.  After she leaves, Gabron sends Borenson to bring her back to discuss one more topic.  Gabron proposes that she marry Borenson, who has very recently been made a Baron and given a rich estate.  Borenson is rather startled by the promotion, but likes the idea of marriage to Myrrima, who also agrees to the proposal.    Gabron then sends Borenson with Myrrima to her home to meet her family and to formally propose.  Gabron stays in town with his Days, wanders in the market some more and then returns to the Inn for dinner.  He orders a sweet wine for the Days and addleberry wine for himself.  The Days overindulges in his wine and Gabron's  wine enhances his insight, so Gabron has a strange conversation with the Days that leads to a few intuitive thoughts.  Moreover, he notices two dark-complected and well armed men come into the Inn;  they move like assassins and also use assassin signs to converse with two other similar men already seated there.  Gabron immediately gets up and goes to the stable, where he finds that several other such men have passed through town going north, probably to Sylvarresta.  Riding to Myrrima's home, he sees that fog is rolling in and smells something unusual.  At Myrrima's home, Borenson smells many giants in the area.      In Sylvarresta, Sargeant Dreys of the King's Guard has been attacked and severely injured by an assassin, who was seeking a book given to Dreys to pass on to the king.  Dreys has crippled the assailant, but two other Guardsmen were killed and another injured before the man was finally captured.  The assailant has declared himself to be a peaceful spice merchant from Muyyatin, but most of the Guard believe him to be a spy.  The foreign merchants are in an uproar over the incident, angrily demanding that the man be released, so politics keeps the Guard from using torture to determine the truth.  Moreover, the foreign merchants have threatened a ban if the assailant is executed.    When Iome learns of the grievous injury to Dreys, she sends Chemoise, her Maid of Honor, to be with her fiance and, after hearing a more complete report from the Guardsman, follows after to see for herself.  Dreys manages to ask about the book and dies shortly thereafter.  Chemoise grieves for a few more minutes and then runs to their secret trysting place to wait for his spirit to manifest.  She confides to Iome that she is pregnant with Dreys' child and spills the news that Gabron will soon be visiting, which Iome has not known.  Becoming even more irate at the whole situation, Iome takes Chemoise with her to talk to the King.    The King is certain that the assassin is also a spy.  The Captain of the Guard has followed the scent of this assassin as he slipped along the fortifications.  Moreover, the man has numerous endowments in a mixture suggesting a warrior or assassin.  In addition , five of the King's huntsmen are missing after entering Dunnwood and he suspects that armed assassins are there assembling for a strike within the next two days.  The King decides to ransom off the assassin to the foreign merchants for as much as he can get and then let the man go free to signal his compatriots.  Meanwhile, the Guardsmen are preparing for an attack by the assassins.    This novel has most of the familiar characteristics of a fantasy novel, but with some innovative twists.  Even the giants aren't quite like the common archetype.  Characters often do not conform to the stereotypes, with few exceptions such as Hollicks, who is a fairly typical merchant.    This story is full of action and surprises, dominated mostly by the offstage presence of Raj Ahten.  However, the wights of dunnwood have a shining part to play as well.  And Gabron comes into his inheritance.    Recommended for anyone who enjoys heroic fantasy with strange magic.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-05-21
1119116:US	49390985	R2LNYYT8TBPAN6	0446610828	866182651	A Princess of the Aerie (Jak Jinnaka)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Candide All Over Again	A Princess of the Aerie is the second novel in the Jak Jinnaka series, following The Duke of Uranium.  In the previous volume, Jak, his tove Dujuv, and the Rubahy warrior Shadow on the Frost have freed both the future Duke of Uranium and Princess Shyf from their captors.  Moreover, a minor society reporter, Mreek Sinda, happened to record some of the kidnapping while covering the concert and added to the story to produce  a documentary on his exploits which had little correspondence with reality, but was nonetheless very popular.  This success put her into the big time, but her subsequent efforts have all been duds.  Hoping that lightning will strike twice in the same spot, Sinda haunts his life, checking with him every now and then, looking for another good story.<br />In this novel, Jak and Dujuv have pulled another incredibly ignorant stunt, so they have been called to the Dean's office for a chewing out.  Since this is a familiar procedure, neither one is too worried, but the Dean makes a special effort this time to understand Jak's reasoning for taping the Venerian Joy Day orgy and selling the tape to his fellow students.  Even though the students are now impressed by the Venerians, the Venerians are spitting mad.  Treaty negotiations between the Hive and Venus have not gone well since the tape distribution was discovered.<br />The Dean observes that Jak compulsively ignores any directions given to him and just ad libs everything.  The Dean believes that Jak needs to develop some discrimination about following or not following  directions.  Also, the Dean believes that Jak needs to absorb a great deal of ethnographic information or he might well end up with a war named after him.  To accomplish these goals, the Dean requires Jak to repeat Solar System Ethnography until he earns top rank in the class and to then do the same in Advanced Ethnography.  Moreover, Jak must submit a proposal for a Junior Task in which the directions are vague, the goals are unclear, and the situation requires interaction with non-Hive personnel with different goals.  Dujuv's Junior Task is to assist and protect him.<br />After discussing the stupidity of the assignment with Dujuv, Jak returns to his quarters to find a message from Princess Shyf waiting for him on his purse.  She asks for Jak, Dujuv, and Dujuv's former demmy Myx to come to Greenworld for an unspecified but confidential task.  She has made reservations for them on the Hive battlesphere Up Yours and has requested CUPV duties for them so they will have something to do while traveling.  She suggests that he show the message to his Uncle Sib, which Jak does.  After some discussion, Jak decides to go and his friends also agree to go along.<br />After they reach Greenworld, they are told that the message is a hoax.  However, Jak and Dujuv are offered an opportunity to sign up for the Royal Palace Guard and only later do they learn that the RPG is a stud service for the princess.  Of course, they are quite willing to participate after the conditioning takes hold.<br />Once again, Jak displays his almost total ignorance of the real world and his elders are not giving him much guidance.  He hasn't got a clue as to the situation, but one shock after another manages to bypass his aversion to learning and strike at his primitive survival instincts.  By the end of the story, Jak actually appreciates the ethnographic info he has been studying.  Pain has a way of facilitating learning and he gets a lot of pain -- physical, mental, and emotional -- in this story.<br />I was beginning to think that Jak is an anti-hero, providing lessons by  counter-example, and that he was going to get maimed or killed before learning to tie his shoes, so to speak.  While having a lot to learn, Jak may be finally giving in to the universal conspiracy to teach him things he doesn't want to learn.  However, don't expect too much in the sequel;  Jak could easily revert to his default setting:  sweathog.<br />I stillcan't decide if I really like this series or not, but I am definitely going to read the sequel.  It is almost like witnessing a gory accident;  one cannot just pass by without looking.<br />Recommended for Barnes fans and anyone else who enjoys reading about a young dolt consistently shooting himself in the foot by opening his mouth, yet instinctively doing the right thing to get out of trouble.	2003-05-19
1121145:US	49390985	R3CCQ6F9O08QDV	044661081X	254460863	The Duke of Uranium (Jak Jinnaka)	Books	5	6	10	N	N	An Apprentice Secret Agent	The Duke of Uranium is the first novel in the Jak Jinnaka series.  Fifteen hundred years after the development of spaceflight, there are human colonies spread throughout the Solar System.  However, they are not alone, for the alien Rubahy have a colony on Pluto, the last remnant of the invading force that survived the sterilization of their home planet.  Any century now, the Galactic Court will issue their verdict in the case resulting from that war and maybe issue an Extermination Order against both parties.  In the meantime, the round impact craters from the Rubahy bombardment of the Northern Hemisphere by near lightspeed projectiles sparkle like sequins in the sunlight as one approaches the planet.<br />In this novel, Jak is taking his last required class in gen school, bored out of his mind as usual.  When the period ends, he and his tove, Dujuv, pre-order their habitual fare at the Old China Cafe and claim a private booth when they arrive so that they can check their admission scores for the Public Service Academy.  Jak misses the cutoff for his genetic type by 65 points and Dujuv misses by 11 points.  Neither one is likely to be attending PSA.  On to the contingency plans;  Jak intends to join the Army and Dujuv decides to become a professional slamball player.<br />Soon thereafter, their demmies join them, having accessed the databank after the boys reading their scores removed the privacy flags;  Sesh says hello to Jak, but Myxenna plasters Dujuv against the backwall with a kiss.  When  Dujuv is allowed to come up for air, Myx states that she has made the cut, but Sesh says that she also missed the cutoff.  When the boys tell them about their career ideas,  Sesh surprises them by saying she is going to be a Social Parasite and just live off her family's money.  Then they get down to the important things, like where to spend the evening, and find that Sesh has gotten tickets to the closing performance of Y4UB, the Slec group.<br />Jak returns home to exercisethe Disciplines before getting ready to go to the concert.  He discusses his career ideas with his Uncle Sibroillo and learns a little more about Uncle Sib's background.  After he does his katas, a cord drops over his head and starts to strangle him, but he manages to get out of the cord, so his attacker kicks him in his armored cup over his groin.  Uncle Sib has won again, but the score is beginning to be more even.<br />Jak meets the others at the ferry station to take the gripliner over to Centrifuge together.  At .9 gees acceleration/deceleration, the trip takes about 22 minutes.  As usual, Sesh gets them there before the line at the entrance is too long and they are soon floating through the huge sphere in micro gravity.  After the show founds, Jak and company get into the sight/sound/motion of the Slec and then start doing stunts such as the double Immelmann, but Sesh is not there when Jak reaches for her hands.  He looks around and sees Sesh being hauled off by four men.  Immediately, he attacks the men and then Dujuv joins him, but the assailants have allies, who soon knock the boys unconscious while the others hustle Sesh out of the concert.<br />When Jak awakes fully, it has been four weeks since the kidnapping.  However, Uncle Sib knows where and why Sesh has been taken.  It seems that Sesh is really an Aerie princess named Shyf and has been taken to Fermi on Earth to convince her to marry the younger son of the Duke of Uranium.  Jak is ready to leave immediately to rescue her, but Uncle Sib has a better plan.<br />This novel would drive serious, studious types up a wall and probably result in damage to the book.  Jak is a sweathog, not because he lacks ability, but because he is incapable of taking school seriously and is likely to fall asleep during any and all lectures.  Moreover, he plans on avoiding further schooling at all costs.  If anyone cared, they would probably lament the loss of his considerable potential, but even his Uncle Sib believes himto be incapable of responsible behavior.  His uncle's demmy, Gweshira, thinks he just might amount to something after his hormones cool down, but that is not the majority opinion.<br />This story is much like Hughes' Fool Errant and Fool Me Twice.  The hero is an ignoramus and dilettante who naturally responds to danger in the best possible manner.  He is courageous and wily, but makes many grievous errors in intercultural etiquette.  His mouth runs ahead of his brain and he is solidly grounded in his own provincialism.<br />The author has created a well-fleshed future society with an evolved technology and language ... and an almost unfathomable adolescent slang.  One anticipates numerous complaints about the slang, but it is fairly easy to assimilate;  certainly no harder than the current, ever changing, teenage dialects.  After all, one suspects that this series is intended for young adults, who will have little problems learning a few futuristic phrases.  <br />This story, however, it is not limited in its appeal to the younger readers.  It has enough meat to engage the attention of many adults as well.  In fact, some of the humor may be enjoyed more by an experienced reader.<br />Recommended for Barnes fans and anyone else who enjoys light SF adventure stories with some sophistication.	2003-05-17
1121859:US	49390985	RML0PN43URKJP	0756400473	163457578	The Eyes of God (Daw Book Collectors)	Books	5	6	11	N	N	A Love Triangle and a Quest, For Starters	The Eyes of God (2001) is the first novel in a new fantasy series.  The Akari are all dead, but some remain behind as spirits.  They provide services to those with disabilities, such as allowing the blind to see.  Those possessed by the Akari spirits are called Inhumans.  In this novel, Lukien is the head of the Royal Chargers.  He doesn't remember his mother and had little contact with his father.  He is a friend of Akeela.  Akeela is the King of Liiria.  He is a friend of Lukien.  Trager and Breck are Royal Chargers of Liiria.  They are Lukien's lieutenants.  Figgis is the head librarian of Koth, the capital of Liiria.  Karis is the King of Reec.  His country has been at war with Liiria for almost three decades.  Linuk is an Earl of Reec.  Cassandra is the youngest daughter of Karis.  Minikin is an Inhuman.  She is the head of Grimhold and is very old, having lived for several centuries.  Trog is an Inhuman.  He is Minikin's bodyguard.  In this story, Liiria has been warring with the neighboring kingdom of Reec for decades.  Now the king of Liiria is determined to bring peace between the kingdoms and has come to Hes, the capital city of Reec, to parlay with the king of Reec.  Akeela has come with gifts for Karis.  Akeela brings his Royal Chargers, lead by Lukien, the Bronze Knight, for protection against betrayal.  Lukien and the Chargers are not as certain of their peaceful reception as their king, but follow anyway out of loyalty and love.  At the gates of Hes, they find a honor guard of mounted soldiers with sheathed swords, a procession of Reecan citizens watching in awe, and a band playing brassy parade tunes.  Lukien and his lieutenants, Trager and Breck, enter first and the smiles on the faces of the Reecans become somewhat twisted.  The Liirians are welcomed to the city by Linuk and Akeela says a few words of thanks.  The Reecan crowd then claps and shouts in joy and the band plays even louder over the clamor.  The Reecan welcoming party escorts the Liirians to their king's castle and Lukien notices that the crowd obviously adores Akeela, but is hostile to himself.  In the throne room, Akeela presents Karis with the gifts, contributed by the citizens of Liiria, all gold or gold trimmed, except for one gift in a crystal flask wrapped in blue linen:  water from the river Kryss.  Akeela is giving the river to Reec, subject only to the right to traverse it with trading vessels.  The river has been the subject of 28 years of warfare and Akeela wants to stop the bloodshed, so he has cut the Gordian knot by giving away the river.  In return, Karis gives Akeela his youngest daughter, Cassandra, in marriage.  In Koth, the capital of Liiria, a baby is born to the widow of a Royal Charger, but he has a club foot and other abnormalities.  Another baby, a girl, has been born to a farmer's wife, but she is blind and the farmer drowns her;  later he meets a little woman, Minikin, with an amulet around her neck, and her giant bald-headed servant, Trog, who holds him head down in a rain barrel until he drowns.  After their betrothal, Akeela leaves Cassandra in Hes and returns to Koth to prepare for their wedding.  He leaves Lukien with Cassandra as his representative.  Unfortunately, the propinquity and exotic nature of the princess and the knight lead them into an infatuation, which over time turns into love.  After their marriage, Akeela discovers that Cassandra is subject to a strange illness which the physicians identify as an inoperable growth in her abdomen.  However, Figgis finds mention of the Eyes of God in an old book of Jadori history and folktales; the twin amulets are said to protect the wearers from all disease.  Akeela sends Lukien with Figgis to find these Eyes of God.  This novel is a quest for a cure to Cassandra's illness, yet is also a romance and much more.  These are betrayals and sacrifices, hatred and love, plots and battles, and still more.  This series promises to be even better than the author's Tyrants & Kings series.  This story has been compared to the Arthurian legend, but why stop there?  What about the story of Jason and Medea?  Love triangles are an ancient plot device, but many a divorce is due to such affairs.  And many a murder is motivated by jealousy.  Our emotions are governed by a very old part of our brain, which is still powerful enough to override our rational faculties on occasion.  The next installment in this sequence is [[ASIN:0756402034 The Devil's Armor]].  Recommended for Marco fans and anyone else who enjoys fantasies with political intrigue and battles and romance.  Read and enjoy!  -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-05-16
1121992:US	49390985	R1FGYTG9Q0JNSR	0451453638	658733340	Shadows Fall	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Murder In the Shadows	Shadows Fall is the first novel in a loosely connected set of urban fantasies.  The town of Shadows Fall is \\"where dreams go to die.  A place where nightmares end, and hope itself can rest ... You can find all sorts of things in Shadows Fall.  There are doors that take you to anywhere ... Mostly, though, it's a town where people go to die.  People, and other things.\\"<br />In this novel, it is Carnival once again in Shadows Fall.  Leonard Ash stands alone watching the people come and go.  He has been dead, a revenant, for three years now, but he is still not quite ready to go through the Forever Door.  He hasn't talked to the Mayor, Rhea Frazier, since his death and he takes the time to do so now, discussing various people, including Lucas DeFrenz, who was killed in a freak traffic accident and then came back possessed by the angel Michael, God's Assassin.  As they are talking, Suzanne Dubois interrupts them with a message from Richard Erikson, the Sheriff, to come quickly.  They find Lucas DeFrenz lying dead in Suzanne's shack.  Someone has killed God's Assassin.<br />A few weeks later, James Hart returns to Shadows Fall after his mother and father have died in a car crash.  He has been gone for twenty-five years and doesn't recognize anything.  He watches the daily dogfight between World War I biplanes (the English pilot crashes and burns this time), walks down a Parisian street and then one out of the European Dark Ages, and finally sits down on a wooden bench in a park.  There he meets Leonard Ash, tells him his story, and receives some answers to his many questions.  When they go to a bar, the sheriff joins them and remembers Hart's parents, telling him that his parents were linked to some sort of prophecy concerning the destruction of the Forever Door and they had packed up and left shortly thereafter.<br />The sheriff recommends that Hart ask Old Father Time about the prophecy and his parents, but has to leave to quell a disturbance between overweight pixies and biker grizzly bears.  Ash volunteers to accompany Hart to see Old Father Time and they cross the park to the Sarcophagus, converse with their dopplegangers just leaving the slab of stone, and then enter through a snowdome into a blizzard and hurry through the open door to get out of the swirling snow.  Before reaching Time, they have to traverse through the Gallery of Bone, an unsettling experience in itself, and then pass Madelaine Kresh, Time's assistant.  Time is currently a gaunt man in his late fifties or early sixties, dressed in Victorian finery.  Old Father Time doesn't really explain the prophecy, but states that, since his return, Hart is at the heart of the matter.  Hart also gets to meet Jack Fetch, a scarecrow with a carved turnip head, who has incredible strength and is fascinated by Hart, finally bowing to him.<br />Doctor Mirren performs autopsies on all seven victims -- to date -- and finds nothing helpful.  When he tries to raise the spirit of the last victim, he receives more than he expected and barely gets rid of it.  Something very powerful has ensured that the dead tell no tales.<br />Sean Morrison, resident bard, troublemaker and Sidhe groupie, visits Suzanne Dubois, seeking advice.  He is thinking of asking the Unseeli Court, the rulers of Dark Faerie, to investigate the murders.  While he is at Suzanne's shack, Lester Gold, an old hero from a canceled comic, drops by to get her advice as to how he can help.  Suzanne suggests that the two team up to visit the Unseeli Court.<br />This novel is a mystery quest of sorts, with more twists and turns than a mountain goat path.  After accepting the underlying premise, one begins to be curious about the ever expanding cast and the bouncing ball plot.  Then one begins to wonder how all these threads are going to be reconciled.  After that, the hook is set and one is committed to finishing the book.  The story really starts rocking around the half way point and turns into an action adventure aboutthree-quarters through.<br />In some ways, this story is the fantasy equivalent of Farmer's Riverworld.  Somewhere/somewhen in Shadows Fall may be every character from every story that was ever told, published or filmed.  The primal fears of the cavemen are probably wandering around the town right now!<br />Highly recommended for Green fans and anyone who likes an urban fantasy story with elements of a mystery quest during a bloody invasion.	2003-05-16
1122146:US	49390985	R122YPHBKXRG7	0312860226	472694614	The Soprano Sorceress (Spellsong Cycle, Book 1)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Singing In the Rain and Fire	The Soprano Sorceress is the first novel in the Spellsong Cycle.  In the world of Erde, sorcerers and sorceresses can use songs to build or destroy.  Lord Brill uses song to build the foundations and walls of a fortress and then uses another song to destroy one of his musicians, Culain, whom he accuses of humming despite prior warning.   Culain's son, Daffyd, wants revenge for this wrongful death and asks his friend Jenny to bring a sorceress from the mists to kill Lord Brill.<br />In this novel, Anna Marshall is a singer and music instructor at Iowa State University.  She is a divorcee and has recently lost her daughter.  She is on her way to sing at the Founders' Dinner for major donors when the world swirls around her.  After a swaying step, she finds herself in a small, gloomy room in a peasant cottage on the world of Erde.  Trying hard to remain calm, Anna questions Daffyd and Jenny to learn how and why she was brought to Erde.  Meanwhile, Lord Brill is notified of the arrival by his magical alarm system and is shown the view in Jenny's cottage.<br />When Brill arrives at Jenny's cottage, he invites Anna to join him for supper at his Hall.  On the way back in his carriage, he explains something of the nature and hazards of sorcery and tries to persuade her of his good intentions and the dangers facing Defalk.  Her quarters are sumptuous and even has its own jakes.  The Hall is guarded by armored men with swords and bows, yet is cooled by Lord Brill's magic.  After washing her face and hands, Anna comes down for dinner, but is more interested in learning more about Erde and magic.<br />Lord Brill is building a fortress to defend against the Dark Monks, who have used massed Darksong to conquer Ebra.  Now they threaten both Defalk and Ranuak.  Lord Brill wants Anna to stand with him against the dark ones.<br />When Anna is brought through the mists to Erde, another alarm sounds among the Dark Monks.  The Songmaster is informed that a Sorceress has been taken to Lord Brill's Hall, but nothing is known of her origins.  He orders a thorough investigation of the new Sorceress.<br />This novel is a sword and sorceress fantasy with a number of twists and differences.  Of course, the use of song to produce magic is not new;  Foster's Spellsinger series exploits the same gimmick.  However, this tale is a little more serious, with a more developed sociological and political structure as well as a cast of powerfully portrayed characters.  Moreover, the energy losses from using spellsong are well-considered.<br />While the author shows snippets of Anna's inner thoughts, he does not fully explain her actions, so there is a continual suspense generated by her behavior.  At first, she waits and gathers information, but then she cuts loose with her own sorcery.<br />The autobiographical aspects of this novel, and Of Tangible Ghosts, are intriquing.  The author is married to a classical concert singer and some of the concerns and behavior probably come from real life.  I wonder if his wife is also an instructor of music and voice tutor?  The academic irritations and rewards seem to reflect modern academia.<br />Highly recommended to Modesitt fans and anyone who enjoys sword and sorceress tales with a strong heroine.	2003-05-16
1123710:US	49390985	REOGRCE1MT6LO	1560765666	884619190	Valorian	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The First Hunneli And His Master	Valorian is the first novel in the Dark Horse series, a prequel to the other volumes.  \\"Five hundred years before before the time of Gabria, the mage-heroine of [the other novels], the last remnants of the once great Clans struggle to survive in the barren foothills west of the Darkhorn Mountains.\\"   They need to cross the mountains to the vast Ramtharin Plains, but the high peaks and Tarnish Empire hold them back in the Bloodiron Hills.<br />In this novel, the hunter Valorian has shared meat with a group of Tarnish legionnaires and overheard talk of the legion pulling back to Tarnov, leaving the Ramtharin Plains unoccupied.  Also, he heard mention of a Wolfeared Pass in the mountains which is large enough for supply wagons.  He begins searching for the pass, but has had no luck for three days.  He has wandered up through the foothills onto a ridge crest, but rain shrouds the peaks and drives him to shelter.  When the rain blows through, Valorian returns to the crest and calls upon the gods to show him a way to save his people.  A bolt of pure power arcs down through his sword and helmet, his body, and his horse to the rocky ground.  They are both dead before they know it.<br />Valorian finds himself in a vast, unutterable silence.  He is standing over his own body, and that of his horse, smoke arising from the corpses.  However, he is not alone, for Hunnel, his stallion, is also there in spirit, if not quite in body.  The land around them is slowly fading away.  The two are facing down the Harbringers, the escorts of the dead, when the goddess Amara intervenes to save them.  <br />It seems that some gorthlings have stolen her crown, her brother Sorh thinks her requests for help are a game, and she has no power over her brother's creatures.  She asks Valorian and Hunnel to retrieve the crown and gives him the power of magic to use in the quest.  She then returns him to the Habringers for escort to the realm of the dead.<br />When Valorian returns from that realm, heis dirty, tired and has a pounding headache.  Moreover, Hunnel has a wound like a brand mark on his side shaped like a lightning bolt.  Wondering about his dreams, he mounts Hunnel and goes home.  However, he soon learns that he can use magic just as in the dream.  Was it a dream or not?<br />This novel is the backstory of the migration of the clans to the Plains and the occurance of magic users among them.  Valorian has other tasks ahead of him, including giving Hunnel the power to mindspeak, before his time is past, but he and his people will now be accompanied by the Dark Horses, Hunnel's descendents.<br />Recommended for Herbert fans and anyone else who enjoys a good fantasy story about riders of the plains.	2003-05-15
1124137:US	49390985	R2KWUVRUKFAOUM	0061052965	662929796	Acorna: The Unicorn Girl	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Three Men and a Baby Unicorn Girl	Acorna: The Unicorn Girl is the first in the Acorna series.  Fleeing from the torture cells of the cruel Khevii, the couple had rigged their ship to explode when the pursuing ship is close enough.  However, they also put their baby into a survival capsule and programmed it to eject just before the explosion so that the Khlevii would not be able to capture it.    In this novel, Gill, Rafik and Calum are prospecting in an asteroid belt when they discover a metallic pod broadcasting a distress call.  They bring it aboard the Khedive and find a baby within it.  The youngling differs from human babies in that she has a large bump in the middle of her forehead, one fewer joint in her fingers, and larger and thicker toes.  She also has silvery hair and eyes and teeth strong enough to mark the metal cup when she is given water. Although refusing to eat meat, she happily stuffs lettuce, chard, carrots, and radishes in her mouth and chews with her strong teeth.    The men are busy mining an asteroid, so they postpone taking her back to the base until they have a full load.  As Gill says, \\"How much trouble can one toddler be?\\"  After she has disrupted hydroponics for the third time, they enclose it in netting to keep her out.  She stays as close as possible to one or another of the men, which complicates the doing of their tasks.  She is growing by the hour and then she learns to talk.  Luckily, she learns how to draw and is content with drawing lines and squiggles on old printout sheets;  she also learns the programming language on the front of the sheets.  She loves baths and, when she drinks her bathwater, they discover that the water is no longer soapy and dirty, but crystal clear.  Moreover, the air has been low in carbon dioxide despite her preference for broad leaf plants.    The men have discovered that the bump on her forehead has become a horn and unicorns are supposed to purify water.  That suggests a name, but they reject \\"Una\\";  then Calum proposes \\"Acorna\\" and this passes by acclamation.  After some initial confusion, they baptize her Acorna and argue other who will be her godfather, finally agreeing that all three will accept the responsibility.  Of course, that means that they have to discuss everything at the top of their lungs while Acorna is asleep (they have discovered that the only thing that awakens Acorna is an alarm hooter, which causes her to promptly flee her hammock and stand by her escape pod).  Acorna is learning things at a fabulous rate and her godfathers are having a wonderful time, but then they return to the base.    This novel is a pure romp af a tale.  It is definitely not hard SF nor is it difficult reading, so it would be suitable for older children or young adults, but was also enjoyable to this more mature reader.  The first volume is probably the best in the series, but the sequels are also pleasant reading.    Recommended for McCaffrey and Ball fans and anyone else who enjoys light SF yarns with a touch of comedy.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-05-14
1125999:US	49390985	R3PZNP6DRMQNFF	0689305079	601203914	DRAGONSONG	Books	5	15	17	N	N	With a Song In Her Heart	Dragonsong is the first novel in the Harper Hall trilogy and the fourth in the Pern series.  Harpers are assigned to Holds and Guild Halls to educate the children and to pass on interesting events to the adults.  Harpers are much in demand since the return of Thread and Lessa's heroic trip through time to bring forward another five full Weyrs from the past.    In this novel, seven turns have passed since Lessa's trip through time.  Half-Circle Sea Hold has lost their aged Harper and no one other than Menolly, the Sea Holder's youngest child, can properly sing the deathsong to honor old Petiron as he is put to rest.  Yanus is upset that a mere girl should be given this honor, yet he has no choice but to allow it.  Moreover, Menolly is the only one available to instruct the children in the Teaching songs.  However, Yanus and his wife, Mavi, try to stop Menolly from \\"tuning\\", writing new songs.  After repeated warnings, Yanus beats her with his belt when she dreamily strums a new tune in front of the children and Mavi piles works on her.     When the new harper arrives, Yanus and Mavi try to keep Menolly from his attention, even though the new Harper has asked about the person who wrote the new songs that Petiron had sent to Harper Hall.  When Menolly slashs her hand open while gutting packtails and gets slime into the cut, her mother cleans, stitches and bandages the wound and tells Menolly that she will no longer be able to use that hand to play music.    The wound becomes poisoned by the slime as well as infected and Menolly spends a few days in pain and delirium.  After she recovers, she spends most of her time out of the Hold gathering greens and fruit.  One day Menolly is out gathering spiderclaws when she discovers a golden fire lizard trying to move her clutch of eggs away from a unusually high tide, but she keeps dropping them.  At first, the little queen tries to drive Menolly away, but Menolly eventually persuades the queen to let her help.      By the timethe remaining eggs are safe, Threadfall drives Menolly into the small cave with the queen and her eggs and then the eggs begin to hatch.  The young fire lizards are hungry and try to scramble out of the cave to catch food, but the falling Thread will kill them, so Menolly desperately feeds them the spiderclaws.  By the time that the Threadfall is over, Menolly has impressed nine young fire lizards.    This novel is my favorite in the Pern series, although others are almost as enjoyable.  There is something fresh and open about the tale, and the songs, that especially appeals to me.  Menolly is a talented young woman who belongs with the Harpers, despite her parents thoughts on the matter.  Thus, the story is a classic generation gap plot with a final satisfactory resolution.    This novel may appeal more to young women than to males, but I passed this novel on to my daughters because I liked it.  You don't have to be female to enjoy this story.  Menolly is an very likeable young woman who compells your attention.    Highly recommended for McCaffrey fans and anyone else who enjoys SF tales of talented young persons struggling to gain recognition for their abilities.  If you have not yet read any of this series, start with [[ASIN:0345335465 Dragonflight]].    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-05-13
1126090:US	49390985	RU23UPIYZD0AP	0765305615	83390695	Legacies (Corean Chronicles, Book 1)	Books	5	19	21	N	N	A Coming of Age In a TIme of War	Legacies is the first novel in the Corean Chronicles.  \\"The Duarchy of Corus blessed all the lands with peace and prosperity, for generation upon generation, from the times of the Forerunners onward ... Then came the Cataclysm, and the old ways and webs weakened, and the world changed for all time\\".    Alucius is the scion of a Herder family.  He has the Talent and has learned the ways of the Iron Valleys and the Nightsheep.  Now he is old enough to be inducted into the Militia as was his forefathers.  Since his father did not come back from such service, his mother, Lucenda, is determined not to lose him as well, but his family cannot afford to buy out his enlistment.      His grandfather, who had been a Militia Captain, trains him well for the service;  he can ride, shoot, swordfight and even fight hand to hand.  His mother provides him with Nightsheep underclothes that will turn a sword and may even stop a bullet (although the impact could still kill him).  When the time comes, Alucius is better prepared than most Militia inductees, but nothing can prevent random misfortunes.    Alucius has a girl who promises to wait for him.  Wendra is a friend of the family whom he has known for years.  She too comes from a herder family, although her father is a cooper, a maker of barrels.    Their immediate enemies are the Reillies and other brigands in the Westerhills.  However, there are also the Lord-Protector of Lanachrona in the south as well as the Matrial of Madrien to the southwest beyond the Reillies.  Madrien has been attacking the Reillies and many of them have come east to raid the Iron Valleys.    While Alucius is serving in the Militia, the Madrien attack the Iron Valleys with a powerful Duarchy device.  Alucius is knocked unconscious by a falling building.  Upon awakening, he finds a silver torque around his neck that can strangle him, cause intense pain or even kill him at the will of his commanders;  also, the torque cancels most of his Talent.  He has beencaptured by the matriarchal Madrien society, where most men wear the torque and even a few unruly or distrusted women.  He is determined to escape, but he doesn't yet know enough to avoid recapture even if he can find a way to remove the torque.    This novel features a young man of talent serving in the military and greatly resembles the Magi'i of Cyador in those aspects.  However, this is a time of war in Corus.  Moreover, the young man is not as powerful in his talent as Lorn and is not an officer, but rather a low ranking trooper, although he is learning fast.    The world of Corus has an unusual ecology, with many animals and plants that are too poisonous to eat and some with strange powers.  Moreover, there a still a few powerful artifacts of the Duarchy in working order,   but the Legacies of the Duarchy are commonly considered curses.    Madrien is a matriarchy, but is opposed by nations that are rabid patriarchies.  The Iron Valleys are a mildly patriarchal society when compared to the others.  While the author has explored the differences between matriarchal and patriarchal societies elsewhere, one would think that the term \\"Duarchy\\" probably indicates a society with a more balanced division of power between the sexes.  The sequels may be even more interesting than this volume.    Highly recommended for Modesitt fans and for anyone else who enjoys fantasy stories of smart and talented persons working their way out of a dangerous situation.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-05-13
1127203:US	49390985	R1QOMHFETZ1DY4	0345458311	798358494	White Wolf: A Novel of Druss the Legend	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Wolf Among Sheep	White Wolf is the tenth novel in the Drenai Tales series.  It features Druss the Legend at a later point in his life, five years after the death of his wife Rowena and ten years before Dos Delnoch, in a quest tale involving his old friend Orastes and his daughter as well as another warrior seeking relief from his guilt and sorrow.<br />In the chaos following the death of the Emperor Gorben at Skeln Pass, civil war racked Ventria and spread to Tantria.  The Tantrian king has attacked Datia and Shakusan Ironmask, leader of the king's guardsmen, has sent Arbeiters out among the people to stir up anger against agents of the enemy, foreigners and the churchmen.<br />In this novel, Skilgannon the Damned has left the Witch Queen of Naashan, his lover, and is living as Brother Lantern in a community of monks.  The Arbeiters have led the townsfolk in torturing and hanging foreigners and burning down their houses.  Now they are arousing the people against the churchmen.  A crowd has badly beat old Brother Layban and Brothers Lantern and Braygan have come to obtain healing herbs and potions from the Apothecary.  There an Arbeiter strikes Brother Braygan and attacks Brother Lantern and thereby seriously hurts himself.<br />Brother Lantern can see that the monks are very much at risk of attack by the townsfolk, but the Elder Brother will not flee, for the monks' duty is to the flock even if it costs their lives.  Brother Lantern stands against the mob and cannot refrain from resisting after the Elder Brother is attacked and wounded.  After a few assailants are killed or maimed, the townsfolk cease their assault of the monastery.  Brother Lantern now knows that he cannot remain a monk, for he is not willing to die for \\"scum\\".  The Elder Brother returns the Swords of Night and Day to him and asks only that Skilgannon escort Brother Braygan to Mellicane to take his vows from the Elders of the church.<br />On the way to Millicane, Skilgannon and Braygan find the boy Rabalyn, woundedand delirious, fleeing from murder accusations by a town councillor, and take him with them.  Later, they encounter refugees running from the armies attacking Tantria and witness a calvary patrol attacking women and children among these refugees.  Before Skilgannon can intervene, Druss kills all but one of the patrol and sends the survivor away with a warning.  After an attack on the refugees by Joinings, great beasts created by magically combining man with animal, Druss and his friend, Garianne, join Skilgannon's company to escort the refugees to Mellicane.<br />Druss has been searching for Orastes and his daughter, Elanin.  In Mellicane, he learns from his friend, Diagoras, a Drenai warrior, that Orastes' servant was found in the dungeons, but none know where Orastes has gone.  He discovers, however, that Elanin has been taken by her mother with Shakusan Ironmask to a ruined fortress.<br />This novel is about love and loyalty, evil and remorse, and, above all, revenge.  The plot is simple, but the characters are complex.  It contains violence, yet even more compassion, and it involves lovers, but is not romantic.  The author has produced another gripping tale that reflects the contradictions and mysteries of human nature.<br />Highly recommended for Gemmell fans and anyone else who enjoys tales of high tragedy and great loves.	2003-05-12
1129494:US	49390985	R573ZNO9Y835F	0756401364	935526976	Long Hot Summoning (Keeper's Chronicles)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The Mall From Hell	Long Hot Summoning (2003) is the third novel in the Keeper's Chronicles series, following [[ASIN:0886779758 The Second Summoning]].  The Keepers maintain the balance between good and evil.  Their primary tool is possibility itself.  Their task is to repair breaches between the Realities, such as here and Hell, as well as between the Realities and the Otherside, a universe of unresolved possibilities.  Their companions are cats.    In this novel, Diana is attending her last day of high school when she discovers an anomalous bracelet, with the feel of the Otherside, on the wrist of a female jock.  She learns that the bracelet has come from Erlking's Emporium in the Kingston mall.  She and Sam, former angel turned cat, investigate and find the store managed by a Troll and full of Otherside items, including a pink magic wand.  Moreover, Diana meets a magic mirror, Jack, who tells her that the mall is becoming a segue, an area accessible to more than one Reality.  Jack really wants to get away from his owners and Diana promises to take him away ASAP.    Recognizing that the task is more than she can handle alone, Diana calls upon her sister, Claire, whom she finds kissing the boyfriend, Dean.  After Diana gains their attention, Claire, Dean, and Claire's cat, Austin, discuss the situation and decide on their tactics.  The next morning, Diana, Sam, Claire, and Austin try to sneak through the Erlking's Emporium into the Otherside;  everybody but Austin makes it into a very similar, but distorted, mall.  There they find Elves and the Immortal King.    Austin, whose path to the Otherside has been rejected by the possibilities, sneaks out to Dean in the parking lot of the Realside mall and they return to the Elysian Fields Guest House.  Since time doesn't run the same on the Otherside, they don't even know how long they will have to wait for the others to return, so they carry on as usual.  After the midget basketball team, nine dwarfs and a pale female manager, checks out, aProfessor of Archaeology shows up with his Mummy and requests a room with a dehumidifier.  Then Austin finds a dead mouse in that room.    This novel has much the same irreverent feel as Asprin's Myth series.  Diana, however, reminds one more of Dairine in Duane's Young Wizards series, full of energy and power, with a gung-ho attitude.  The cats are much like those in Duane's Book of Night with Moon/To Visit the Queen duology.  The plot is reminiscent of Cook's Mall Purchase Night and Lisle's Mall, Mayhem and Magic.  Despite the various similarities, the author has produced a book that is uniquely hers while being just as enjoyable as these other works.  Definitely a keeper (sorry, couldn't resist).    Highly recommended to Huff fans, to the fans of Robert Asprin, Diane Duane, Rick Cook, and Holly Lisle, and to anyone who enjoys light fantasy with a cheeky attitude.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-05-10
1130161:US	49390985	R2IXCQAMUGYUD5	0380979055	431563792	The Visitor	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The End of the World ... and the Aftermath	The Visitor is a post-apocalyptic novel. An amateur astronomer, Selma Ornoesky, detects an object occluding the stars in a small segment of the sky and brings the photographs to the local observatory for confirmation. Since the man she has come to see is in Australia, Selma shows the pictures to Nell Latimer, who later passes them on to Neils. After other observatories have confirmed the object and calculated its orbit to intersect with the Earth, the astronomical community holds back the news to prevent a doomsday panic.    The astronomers track the object as it falls into Saturn's gravity well and sigh with relief as it swings around and away from the Earth. At that point, a joint announcement is made of the averted danger; the politicians are totally irritated that they were not informed first thing, but mollified by the argument that the orbit parameters had to be refined more precisely before an announcement was made. Then the object swings around Jupiter and right back on track to hit the Earth. BIG panic, worst than the millenial troubles. Prayer becomes a part of life for people who have never even enterred a place of worship before. The government builds a survival bunker near the observatory where the whole thing began and Nell Latimer joins others in suspended animation to wait for, and help, mankind to climb back to a technological society.    As the object passes the Moon, it splits into two pieces, one of which sets down at the north pole. The other piece smacks the Earth with a boom heard around the world. This Happening results in an instant population reduction. After the nuclear autumn from suspended dust and water particles, the survivors find their world greatly reduced, with the ocean taking away great chunks at the edge and middle of the North American continent. Moreover, mankind is apparently extinct on the other continents. However, the Moon colony is hanging on and the Mars colony is beginning to prosper.    Earth survivors have monsters tofight after the Happening Which Came and Went Again as well as the tectonic upheavals, starvation, disease, and other natural disasters. One group of survivors, the Spared Ones, find a home in the Bastion, a formation of three valleys, and build their capital, Hold, in the intersection of the valleys. There they compile the Dicta of their beliefs and establish the Regime to guide the believers. One of the dicta is the belief in the magic of the before-time. At first, they attacked the demons outside the Bastion at will, but recently have been forced to forgo such pleasures. However, they have gained greatly in machines and other trade goods from the demons which are not otherwise available in their society.    Disme Latimer is a resident of the Bastion who lives with her father and brother, as well as her aunt, step-mother and step-sister. The step-sister is a poisonous little snake named Rashael, who likes to cause pain, and Disme is her favorite victim. Rashael discovers rather early that she is not to physically injury or kill Disme, but discovers that psychological pain is permissible. Since Rashael kills or removes people/things that Disme loves so as to cause emotional distress, Disme pretends to be disinterested in anyone or anything as much as possible. Nevertheless, Rashael manages to steal Disme's loved one and marries him so as to keep the pain fresh.    Rashael has been bound as a girl to something called Hetman Gohdan Gone. It is the Hetman that gives her orders to watch, but not injure, Disme and punishes her when she disobeys. The Hetman also has a willing follower in the leader of the Regime, General Gregor Gowl, and other Regimic leaders. The Hetman possesses very real magic formulas which he provides to his followers upon request; of course, the magic binds these people to the Hetman, increasing its dark powers.    The Hetman has enemies, the Council of Guardians, that also appear to have magical powers. The Council is reputed to consist of 21 entities, of whom Tamlar of the Flames seems to have appeared immediately after the Happening, but others have risen from among the common people over time.    A millenium after the Happening, the thing at the north pole is moving south and everything seems to be coming to a head. General Gowl has received orders from the Rebel Angels to move against survivors outside the Bastion. A mysterious fortress, Goldland or something like that, has appeared in the wastes. The sleepers are running out of everything in their bunker and are arguing about moving out among the survivors.    This novel, like many of the author's works, is a demonstration of Clarke's Third Law: \\"Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.\\" Add to that the possibillity of psionic talents and you have science fiction that reads like fantasy ... or fantasy that reads like science fiction. This story may be classified either way. I went with the flow and enjoyed the whole experience.    Recommended to Tepper fans and anyone else who enjoys science fantasy set in the far future.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-05-09
1130816:US	49390985	R1L39BD7J2D8QE	0743435613	344110456	Beyond This Horizon	Books	5	46	48	N	N	The Post-Utopian Blues	Beyond This Horizon (1948) is a \\"post-utopian\\" novel.  After the problem of world hunger, and all other issues of wealth distribution, have been solved, what problems will remain?  If everybody is rich and healthy, what more could a rational person desire?    In this novel, Hamilton Felix visits his friend, Monroe-Alpha Clifford, to show off his new pistol, a .45 caliber automatic, and then invites him out for dinner.  As they dine on the balcony, Monroe-Alpha fumbles a crab leg, which slips from his fingers and lands in a drink on a table below, splashing purple liquid onto a woman's lap.  Monroe-Alpha is called to task for the accident and apologizes, admitting his fault.  However, another man chides him for his clumsiness and Hamilton does the honors, but only wounds the man in the shoulder.    Unknown to Felix and his friend, the wounded man is an assassin for a group that believes that utopia lacks only one thing:  a ruling class.  The story goes on to detail the uncovering of this irrational plot and the eventual actions taken, including a shootout in the Genetics Clinic.    The author draws upon the old saying, \\"man cannot live by bread alone\\", to point out that a material utopia will not settle all human issues.    Such problems include not only the ambitions and aggressions passed on through our genes, but our higher aspirations for ourselves, for our families, and for the whole human race.    This story is the author's first adult novel published in book form.  He had been writing shorter works for the magazines for some time and two previous juvenile novels, but this was his masterwork, his proof that he could sell in the adult book market.  There is very little that is dated in this story (one editorial review commented on the dialogue as dated, but maybe retro was in again).  In fact, his depiction of the eugenics program has the look and feel of modern genetic engineering;  of course, the author doesn't dwell on the details, but the ways and means seemvery contemporary.    This novel has never been acclaimed as much as others, such as Stranger In a Strange Land, that attracted the attention of a wider, but less knowledgeable, audience.  Maybe it came before its time, for the topics discussed herein are more apropos today than 60 years ago.  One of the possibilities of the post-ColdWar era is the development of a worldwide material utopia.  Would that solve all our current problems?  Are you certain?    This reprint has a 2001: A Space Odyssey starchild on the cover.  Some people don't know a Heinlein from a Clarke!  And probably not even a hawk from a handsaw!    Highly recommended to Heinlein fans and anyone who enjoys the serious contemplation of the unthinkable in a SF setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-05-08
1131016:US	49390985	RGN0TYSNC76CK	0886777690	613842763	A Thousand Words for Stranger	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Alone In a World Not Her Own	A Thousand Words for Stranger (1997) is the first novel in the Trade Pact Universe.  The Clan are not human, but appear so to others.  They are said to be powerful telepaths.  While not members of the Trade Pact, some live within Trade Pact space.    In this novel, a Trade Pact enforcer, P'tr wit 'Whix, is following a Clansman and his companion in the Auord shipcity when six assailants attack.  The Clansman kills or seriously injures four of the assailants and is holding off the last two when someone interrupts the proceedings with a blast globe.  The concussion takes out the other two attackers and renders the Clansman unconscious.  Meanwhile, his companion has run away.  Then the Port Authority corpsmen arrive and shortly thereafter 'Whix's backup, Constable Terk.    She is lost, alone, and amnesic in a strange shipcity when she finds Jason Morgan, follows him to ask for help, and is given some local currency and sent on her way.  Unfortunately, her way is into the hands of labor recruiters -- slavers -- and into their warehouse.  They have drugged her, but it wears off early.  She tries to escape, only to be quickly caught again by the recruiter captain.  She uses the only thing she knows, Morgan's name and ship, to get the captain's attention.  He is interested, but first has her sent to be tested for telepathy.    Barac sud Sarc, First Scout, Third Level Adept of the Clan, awakes to find himself in the temporary custody of Pact Enforcers, led by Commander Lydis Bowman.  Barac tells the Enforcers as little as possible, but learns that the assailants wore mind-shields, so they knew that Barac is Clan.  He is also informed that the Enforcers are investigating the murder of a Clansman, about which Barac already knows, for the murdered man is his brother, Kurr.    This novel is a mixed genre tale, mixing romance and mystery in a SF setting, and the author handles it quite well.  This first novel starts off slowly but builds its pace at the end.  Moreover, the seriesper se is first class.    Highly recommended for Czerneda fans and anyone who enjoys SF mysteries with a touch of romance.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-05-08
1131787:US	49390985	RASRVZLMD7M2K	038081837X	162357940	Memory of Fire (The World Gates, Book 1)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The Secret Masters Fumble One	Memory of Fire is the first novel in the World Gates series.  The Sentinels are a secret organization who monitor and, to some extent, control traffic between universes.  They have been around a long time and have infiltrated the power structure.  They have some ability to use magic.  They are the Conspiracy that people have dreamed and ranted about.    The Sentinel's circle in Cat Creek, North Carolina, is having problems.  First a blip shows on the instruments and later gates start dropping and have to be reset.  The last incident was met with a full scale excursion into Oria, but no clues were found ... publicly.  The circle starts monitoring all their gates for more events and tries to triangulate from the available data.    The first event was Molly McColl being kidnapped and taken through a World Gate to Oria.  There she is welcomed as the Vodi, a being who is powerful in magic.  However, she is being kept in a copper covered room that grounds her magic.  Seolar, Master of Copper House, has arranged for her kidnapping in order to protect his people from the ravages of other magic users and Molly eventually begins to like him more than a little.    The second event was Lauren Hotchkiss Dane opening the old Hotchkiss gate.  Lauren has returned to Cat Creek after the death of her husband, Brian.  She discovered that her family home was on the market and used the SGLI payment to buy it  and now she has brought her son Jake to the old home place to live.  Someone has covered the large wall mirror in the living room with black paint and she spends an afternoon scaping it clear.  When she looks in the mirror, she sees a hint of green and it somehow attracts her.  Later, after Jake is in bed, she discovers that she can put her hand through the mirror without ill effects.  She waits until Jake awakes and then goes through the mirror to Oria.    Eric MacAvery is the town sheriff as well as a Sentinel and is in the center of the whole mess.  He knows that Molly has disappeared, but not how or why.  He is a childhood friend of Lauren, but she keeps her secrets from him ... for a while.  He knows that someone in his circle is a traitor, but not who or why.  On top of all this, someone or something has caused a level five rebound breakthrough, which could cause 3 billion deaths worldwide.    This novel adds new life to an old SF plot, creating a hierarchial multiverse where energy flows down and spirituality flows up and introduces a threat which will destoy the inhabitants of all the universes if something is not done soon.  Lauren's parents, who were long ago expelled from the Sentinels, have hidden notes describing some forbidden experiments that may be the only hope for the survival of the people in countless universes.    This novel is full of plot twists and turns, but focuses mostly on the interpersonal relationships.  One cannot help liking Molly, Lauren, Jake, Eric, and even, reluctantly, Seolar.    Recommended for Lisle fans and anyone who enjoys a new approach to the secret masters of the universe plot.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-05-07
1133358:US	49390985	R3UQBJPCTCIFQQ	0380789132	599210818	An Exchange of Hostages	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Social Crime and Punishment	An Exchange of Hostages is the first novel in the Judiciary series.  In the future, the Judiciary system, faced by a series of revolts and other civil unrest, has determined that torture may be used to interrogate prisoners.  However, only bench certified personnel are granted the Writ to Inquire and there are strict Protocols governing the type and level of torture allowed.  In addition, the Judicary have created the involuntary Bond, a form of imprisonment without walls;  the prisoner is implanted with a \\"governor\\" that punishs any disallowed thoughts or feelings.  The imposition of torture and creation of bond-involuntaries has been increasing in recent years.    In this novel, Andrej Ulexeievitch Koscuisko is a graduate of the Mayon Surgical College with highest honors in Surgery and honors in Pharmacology.  The Koscuisk family has a tradition of the eldest son joining the Fleet and, despite his desires to practice medicine as a civilian, Andrej is forced into Fleet Medical by his father.  Since his father's time in the Fleet, however, the Writ to Inquire on its vessels has been taken from Security and invested in the Chief Medical Officer;  that is, the CMO is responsible for the torture of prisoners under a judicial writ.  So Andrej has to attend Fleet Orientation Station Medical where he is taught to torture prisoners.  Unfortunately, he is good at torture and, to his shame, he enjoys it.    A fellow student at the Ship Surgeon's school, Mergau Noycannir, is not a Fleet officer, but a Clerk of Court from the Chilleau Judiciary, an experiment in certifying Inquisitors who are not medically trained.  Noycannir is a manipulative, controlling personality who intends to make a good impression on the staff at any cost and soons begins to hate Andrej because of his social ease and his medical brilliance.    At Fleet Orientation Station Medical, Andrej is assigned a personal bond-involuntary, Joslire Curran, and has to accept his Bond until the end of the Term.  Thisdisturbs Andrej even further and he fights the system by getting to know Joslire.    This novel is a dysutopia in which both the executive and legislative branches of government have been subordinated to the Judiciary.  Since present society seems to be moving in that direction, the author has obviously created a satire of extrapolation to the extreme.  The story is capsulated within Andrej, simultaneously a victim of this society and a perpetrator of its evils.  While it is a ugly picture, there is a degree of higher truth in the situation.    This novel has a Russian ambiance, probably in honor of Dostoevski's Crime and Punishment.  This story explores many of the same issues, but in a social rather than a personal context.  When is it permissible for an individual or a society to torture or kill its own citizens?  Is it permissible for the society to do so, yet still punish such behavior by private individuals?  Should the public individuals who implement such punishments feel any guilt for their sanctioned activities?  How can a medical officer reconcile his Hippocratic Oath to his oath as a Fleet officer if his duties include the saving of some lives and the taking of others, depending upon his orders?    The torture scenes are tastefully done, without graphic details of physical mutilation.  However, they are disturbing by reference, invoking more vivid and terrifying images.  Read these sections very lightly.    Recommended for anyone who enjoyed Crime and Punishment or who would enjoy a tale of character development in a vile situation.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-05-06
1133638:US	49390985	R1DYNZOFVRVJ8N	0441010393	621776744	Signals: The Exploration Chronicles, Book 1	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Things to Come	Signals is the first novel in the Exploration Chronicles.  SETI, the search for extraterrestrial intelligence, has been going on since the mid 1960s and has found many electromagnetic signals coming from space.  However, these signals have always fallen into one of the following three categories:  1) produced by man-made devices, either on the ground or in space;  2) produced by natural objects;  or 3) nonrepeated phenomena.  Future SETI research is likely to extend the range of monitored frequencies,  the angular degree of coverage, and the number of samples taken per day.  Eventually, the whole sky could be monitored continuously on every frequency.    In this novel, a signal is detected in a part of the sky far from any star.  Moreover, the signal seems to be moving.  A preliminary press release is issued.  A local television station decides to investigate and the reporter, Rachel Davies, interviews the project director, Sarah Bakker.  However, she only uses portions of the interview to add credence to an alien abduction story.  The TV story is picked up by the Army and an engineer officer, Captain Thomas Hackett, is sent to check out the matter;  Hackett also develops a personal interest in Sarah Bakker.  The TV story soon comes to the attention of a state senator, Jason Parker, who is running for the US Senate;  he convenes a press conference with various parties, including a puzzled Sarah Bakker, which leads to an announcement that the signal is coming from an alien ship headed towards Earth.    With this pronouncement, the government goes into high gear.  The President creates a special agency to handle the crisis, headed by George C. Greenstein, who is also nominated for Lieutenant General.  Since Hackett works for the General, he brings in Sarah Bakker.  Two other participants at the infamous press conference, Jonathan Travis, an UFO investigator, and Steven Weiss, a maverick PhD candidate, are included within the team, as is Rachel Davies.  While the principal aim of the agency is to alleviate public fear by simulating constructive action, the agency does start preparing a vehicle for first contact with the alien and Naval Captain Ray Lewis is brought into the agency as the ship commander.    This novel draws upon the author's experiences within the UFO community as well as his military career.  The scenes are vivid and immediate, as if we are watching a movie.  If this story has any one flaw, it is the contemporary look and feel of the settings and dialogue;  one would anticipate that some changes in every day affairs should occur in a few decades!  Will Coke still be produced in 2050?  An assumption of the current ambiance with minor changes is almost inevitable in a movie, for the settings might otherwise get in the way of the story (with the exception of series like Star Trek or Star Wars).  However, SF writers soon learn to introduce changes in unobtrusive ways.  The author does this much better in his other SF works, which are set in the far future.    The author also makes a good case for objective investigation of UFO phenomena.  Project Blue Book started out as an attempt to bury the whole idea under scientific and technical obfuscation and later efforts have been tarred with the brush of \\"crackpot ideas\\".  Virtually all serious investigators admit that the great bulk of sightings are mistakes or frauds, but every investigation has been left with a residue of unexplained cases.  If nothing else comes of more extensive investigation, finding good explanations for these residual cases should increase our knowledge of the immediate environment and the universe itself.    The sequels to this novel are going to expand our technological capabilities and take us further into the universe, presumably to actually meet the aliens.  It should be an interesting series.  The author's previous SF series -- e.g., Jefferson's War, Galactic MI --  were enjoyable, at least to me, but his writing skills, as demonstrated in this volume, have greatly improved over his prior SF efforts.    Recommended to Randle fans and anyone else who enjoys SF tales of alien contact.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-05-06
1134546:US	49390985	R1QAY2X5VJRLH3	0451457730	898233857	Stardoc	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Medic To the Stars	Stardoc is the first novel in the Stardoc series.  Cherijo Grey Viel is a physician and surgeon and has discovered an awful secret about her arrogant and manipulative, but brilliant, father, Doctor Joseph Grey Veil.  To escape from him, she finds a position as a physician at the FreeClinic Trauma Center on Kevarzangia Two (K-2), but she has to find non-scheduled transportation to the planet if she is going to evade her father.  She discovers Dhreen in a bar, the Slow Lazy Sax;  she thinks he is too young to pilot a star shuttle, but the bartender notes that his species stay young looking longer than humans.  When she introduces herself, Dhreen thinks she looks too young to be a qualified physician and surgeon, but a bar fight soon gives her a chance to demonstrate her competence in emergency medical techniques.  Dhreen takes her money and tells her to be on his shuttle, the Bestshot, in four hours.  He tells her to look for the ugliest hunk of junk in the port ... and he isn't kidding.<br />When she arrives on K-2, Cherijo reports to the FreeClinic and is told that she has an orientation presentation in two hours.  She requests a tour of the facility before the orientation and soon meets the FreeClinic's incompetent slackard, Dr. Phorap Rogan, who quickly becomes irritated at her gung-ho attitude and walks off the job, leaving her stuck with his patient queue.  Now she is responsible for treating any patient that comes in for treatment before the end of the current shift, but she has never treated a non-human sentient before.  Moreover, Rogan tells the other physicians that she does not need a diagnostic analyzer and so she has to work without its database.  She gets plenty of experience that day in rapid diagnosis and treatment, making a number of minor mistakes.  She spends that first day in a confused haze, but survives with the assistance of the friendly nursing staff.<br />She relates to the other, non-human, doctors well, but has problems with the FreeClinic'sChief of Staff, Doctor William Mayer.  He is gruff and abrupt as well as highly skeptical about her abilities.  On the other hand, she makes a friend of her Admin mentor, Ana Hansen.  However, her relationship with the Chief Linguist, Duncan Reever, is mostly adversative, for he gives her the creeps, but is also strangely attractive.  She also makes other friends in her housing area as well as at work.<br />After the first day in the trauma center, Cherijo comes home to find that Jenner, her Tibetan Temple Cat, is not in the apartment.  Before she can go out to look for him, Jenner is brought home by Alunthri, a Chakacat, a talking, but technically nonsentient, species.  Cherijo and Jenner become friends with Alunthri and, later, adopt Alunthri when its owner dies.<br />Cherijo also is introduced by a neighbor to a pilot friend, Kao Torin, and becomes romantically involved.  Since Kao is a Jorenian, a rather overlarge humanoid alien, this bothers some of the more xenophobic Terrans in the community.<br />This novel is soft science fiction, for the astronautical details are filled with errors, but the human -- and alien -- relationships are fairly well done.  There is a touch of stereotyping, but the author tries to let the characters lead the plot.  The author is also fond of the wheels within wheels style of plot yet does give fair warnings and does not resort to deus ex machina solutions to problems.  However, the author seems to overemphasize the difficulties of implementing some of these solutions, possibly based on personal experiences. <br />This novel is not great science fiction, for too much is derivative.  The Sector General series, for example, is only a recent example of xeno-medicine tales.  Moreover, the central medical problem in this novel is very similar to that of a recent Slonczewski novel and the concept actually antedates both works.  However, some interesting medical concepts are mentioned in passing and the sociological structures are noteworthy. Nonetheless, the crux of the story is the relationship between Cherijo and Reever.<br />Recommended for Sectory General fans and anyone else who enjoys tales of medical and surgical emergency practice in a SF setting, with a touch of romance.	2003-05-05
1136441:US	49390985	RGYT8YRWWBLUE	0441784356	553372531	The Stars Are Ours	Books	5	23	27	N	N	Ad Astra Post Apocalypse	The Stars Are Ours (1954) is the first novel in the Astra duology.  Mankind had reached the Moon, Mars and Venus, but found little to justify terraforming, so interplanetary flight was used only for scientific research.  However, the three space stations provided a number of services, including astronomical and meteorological observations and refueling interplanetary flights.  One of these stations was invaded by unidentified armed men who turned certain installations into weapons which they unleashed against the planet.  A major portion of the planet was completely devastated and the loss of life was incalculable.    Among the survivors was Arturo Renzi, who had lost his entire family.  He began to preach the evils of science and was welcomed as a great leader throughout the world.  However, his message was too liberal for some of his followers and he was assassinated, apparently by a Free Scientist.  For three days after the assassination, Renzi's followers engaged in a furious purge against scientists and techneers, hunting them down and killing them.  Then Saxon Bort, one of Renzi's chief lieutenants, assumed command of the leader's forces and established the tight dictatorship of the Company of Pax.    In this novel, a decade or so later, Dard Nordis is the son of a Scientific family, living with his older brother, Lars, and his niece, Dessie.  Lars and Dard, together with Lars' pregnant wife, Kathia, had fled the purge, but the escape had left Lars a twisted cripple and his wife an amnesiac.  After Dessie was born, Kathia retreated into her own dream world until her death.  Now Dard, Lars, and Dessie live on a farm far from any population center and the only nearby farm is Hew Folley's place.   Dard doesn't trust Folley, for he wants their farm.  Then one night, a Pax 'copter lands in the snow just before the house and armed Peacemen surround the building.  Dard has the others gather food and supplies and sends them down into the cellar, then torches the house.  Moving aside some rotting bins, he uncovers a tunnel, sends Dessie ahead, and helps Lars struggle down the passage.    After the Peacemen leave, Lars sends Dard out to leave a packet for his Scientific underground contact, but Dard hears a shot shortly after he drops the packet and runs back to find Folley clutching a squirming Dessie.  Dard throws his knife and fatally injures Folley, then discovers that Lars is dead.  With no other recourse remaining, Dard and Dessie return to the contact point to wait.  Lotta Folley finds them there and gives them food and a scarf for Dessie;  Lotta knows that her father is dead, but she recognizes that he was a man full of hate and who liked to hurt people.  Besides, Lotta likes Dessie and liked her mother even more;  they were the only people that ever treated her as a real person instead of an object.  Lotta takes the rifle back to the barn to fool the Peacemen.    When Lars' contact arrives, Dard convinces him to take Dessie and himself back to safety.  They spend the night in a cave, but a Pax 'copter is circling the area when they awake.  The contact, Sach, leads the Peacemen away so Dard and Dessie can proceed to the next point in their journey.  They move away from the cave along a bare ledge as far as they can and then jump into a snow drift on the edge of the woods.  Their journey is fairly easy until they reach the river;  the ice is too thin to support even Dessie's weight.  After looking up and down river, Dard finds only one place that may support them, an arch of ice covered with snow.  Dard carries Dessie across, slowly and carefully, then rests for a count of hundred on the other side.  Again heading to the peak that marks their goal, Dard hears the 'copter return and throws Dessie and himself into a tangle of bushes.  The men in the 'copter rake the bushes with fire.  He and Dessie scoot out the other side, but find it to be a wide sweep of open ground.    This novel is another of the author's post-apocalyptic stories, but the emphasis herein is on spaceflight.  Mankind had achieved interplanetary flight and was working on interstellar flight when some irrational terrorists destroyed civilization.  Other fanatics then ripped up civilization into even smaller pieces and tried to ensure that ignorance would reign forever.  The Scientific community, however, was working on a stardrive and that work was continued in hiding.    This story contains several of the characteristic signatures of the author's space adventures, including special talents and aliens, but does not include mutations nor symbiotic animals.  This novel shows the beginning of galactic-wide human civilization and  [[ASIN:0345323084 Star Rangers]] shows the ending of that civilization.  Of course, some of the other stories may be set in a successor society.  This story is definitely a little dated, but it is still a pleasure to read, as is the sequel, [[ASIN:0843959142 Star Born]].    Highly recommended for Norton fans and anyone else who enjoys tales of desperate spaceflights to planets around other suns.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-05-03
1137549:US	49390985	R2OKCQANB3UMPF	0441007090	33168902	Lady in Gil	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Quests Are Hell, So Lets Get This Job Done	Lady in Gil is the first novel in the Gil series.  About a thousand years before, Oballef the first came to Gil in a rowboat, climbed to the top of the Gilgard, a great flat-topped plug of volcanic rock, held over his head a glowing object about the size and shape of his forearm, and a golden cloud emitted from the object rolled across the entire surface of the island.  Where the cloud passed, the yellow clay turned to black soil, new plants sprung from the ground, and clear springs arose.  The natives unanimously installed Obaleff as King and High Priest and worshipped the glowing object as the Lady in Gil.      Nine hundred and twenty-seven years later, the barbarous Sherank invaded the Kingdom of Gil by stealth, caught the current Priest-King, Oballef the Eleventh, and most of his court, away from Gilgard Castle, butchered them, and then occupied the island.  Despite their successful invasion, the Sherank failed in their efforts to find the Lady in Gil.    In this novel, seventy-two years have passed and the Gil Exiles have created a tradition of sending the Scions, descendants of Obaleff, one by one back to Gil to find the Lady.  Tigrallef is a Memorian who is happy recording facts and filing scrolls, but his brother has a training accident and Tig suddenly finds himself selected as the twentieth Scion to venture forth to Gil.  He doesn't impress anyone as a likely candidate, but the Primate insists on his selection.  He is been put through a vigorous course of physical, mental and moral instruction.  Six months later, finally able to swing a sword without endangering himself or his allies, he is taken to Gil by fishermen and put ashore.  Hiding behind a stack of barrels by the sea-wall, Tig observes the current residents of Gil and notices his clothes are in too good a condition.  Moving cautiously through back alleys, he finds another hiding place in a semi-demolished shed near the main street and then occupies himself converting his clothes to filthy rags.In the evening, Tig ventures out for a bite of noisome stew and is accosted by an old man with only one eye, one hand, and one leg.  The old man says that he knows Tig, knows what he is, calls him \\"Scion\\", and then tells him to follow.  Thinking murderous thoughts, Tig does follow and finds himself among the Web, an underground movement started by the old man, Bekri, the only surviving priest on Gil.  Tig agrees to accept their help, which none of his predecessors had done, and, with the help of Calla, the old man's great-granddaughter, is taught disguise, current maps and many other things pertinent to his survival.  They make plans to insert him within Gil Castle, but then he catches the Gil-gut, a disease that, combined with the necessary medicine, lays him out for three days.      When he recovers from his sickness, Bekri sends him to witness an execution by the Sherkin.   Within the market square, the Sherkin construct an elaborate device which allows a clutch of pointed rods to slowly descend upon the victim and pierce most of the way through his body.  However, a faction within the Web kills the intended victim with a poison dart shortly after he is placed within the device, expecting the Sherkin to react with anger and start slaughtering the crowd of Gilmen;  this faction is ready to kill as many Sherkin as possible with their poison darts, hopefully triggering an uprising.  However, Lord Shree, an anomalous Sherkin noble, covertly disposes of the dart, dismisses the Gilman crowd, and orders the Sherkin to let them leave.    Bekri is old and tired and has finally found a Scion who is willing to listen.  While Tig has yet to enter Gil Castle, Bekri has already begun to abdicate his Web leadership to the Scion.  All the hopes of Gil are focused on his efforts.  Tig is beginning to feel the pressure.    This novel begins as a simple heroic quest for a magic object, but the hero is less than heroic and the enemy are worse than villainous.  The story becomes a tale of cunning and stealth, more like a thief's story.  The author throws in a few genuine heroes for contrast;  Hewelli, for example, is willing for the entire population to die so that the Gilmen can recover their dignity in a great uprising.    Since this story is much more realistic than most quest tales, the hero and heroine are far more believable and therefore the vicarious impact is more immediate.  Tig's attitude reminds one of the worldview of General William T. Sherman.  He will never be a classical hero, but may become a wise leader.  His character has great potential for development in the sequels.    Highly recommended for anyone who enjoys fantasy stories wherein the characters grow and mature within a intricate plot.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-05-02
1139038:US	49390985	R1AVS0ZAPT6JQE	0441848303	795787338	Northworld	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A World of Norse Mythology	Northworld is the first novel in the Northworld series.  Northworld is the gateway to eight other universes.  The Concensus rules twelve hundred worlds, yet wants Northworld too.  They tried to take it before, sending ships and fleets, men and androids and machines, but have always failed.  Now they will try again.<br />In this novel, Commissioner Nils Hansen is a man who gets things done, regardless of the consequences.  His special units are trained and equipped to handle almost anything and Hansen clears the way for their use whenever necessary.  Now they are working on a siege of the Solbarth gang's fortified headquarters.  A Civic Patrolman responding to a domestic dispute was given the wrong address and knocked on the gang's front door.  Just bad luck for everybody involved.  Now the Civic Patrol has a minor war going on with a gang almost as well equipped as they are.  The Civic Patrol is limited in its use of heavy weapons, for anything powerful enough to breach the forcefield would also take out most of that part of the city, and a frontal assault would be sheer murder ... of the cops.<br />Hansen has a SpyFly inserted in the ventilation ducts for recon and then goes to talk to Solbarth.   Someone in the building tries to fire at him with a plama rifle, but Hansen shoots the gunner before he can fire.  He then gains Solbarth's attention and tries to negotiate a surrender, pinking another gunman in the process as well as holding down his own troops.  He offers the gang their lives ... in prison.  Solbarth points out that the gang is well-supplied, but Hansen promises to undercut their forcefield and drop the whole building into the sub-basement.  Solbarth points out that there are civilians in the building, but Hansen says he doesn't care;  they can relieve him after he drops them into the hole.  Solbarth then points out that he is an android and the Consensus won't allow him to live, but Hansen responds that, right here and right now, he IS the Consensus and either the Consensus will ratify everything he agrees to or they will have to deal with him.  Solbarth agrees to surrender.<br />At that point, two black spindle-shaped objects come for Commissioner Hansen.  They don't care what is happening on Annunciation.  The Consensus has need of him on a planet called Northworld.  He is sent through a portal to the Consensus itself, briefed on Northworld, and sent to infiltrate its defenses.<br />However, Northworld knows he is coming and North himself decides to send him to Diamond.  When Hansen arrives, his intrusion capsule starts to come apart and all his weapons disintegrate.  It seems weapons cannot exist in Diamond.  Hansen himself is expelled from Diamond, for he is a living weapon, and he then finds himself in the Open Lands, where men fight in battlesuits in primitive melees for dominance.<br />Meanwhile, North and the other gods of Northworld are pursuing their own almost nonsensical activities.  One of their joint undertakings was the construction of the twin universes of Ruby and Diamond.  While Diamond is extremely pacifistic, Ruby is the ultimate militaristic society.  Fortin, the son of North and an android woman, plots with the inhabitants of Ruby to destroy their sister universe, Diamond.<br />This novel is, according to the author, loosely based on the Eddas and other literature of the Norse culture.  There are a number of Norse saga elements, including North's single eye, the Loki-like Fortin, and the Searchers who bring back the souls of dying heros, but most other Nordic aspects are beyond my slight knowledge of that culture.  Much of the story, however, has a fairly standard heroic quest motif.  Hansen himself could have come out of any number of heroic traditions that allows a fair amount of cynicism in their heroes;  Hansen and Odysseus, for example, would make a fine pair.<br />Recommended for Drake fans and anyone who enjoys heroic epics in a SF setting.	2003-05-01
1139811:US	49390985	R2HIURT8N9G9JZ	0061020362	467408758	The Thief's Gamble (Tales of Einarinn, Book 1)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A War of Magics	The Thief's Gamble is the first novel of the Einarinn series.  Hundreds of years ago, the Tormalian Empire ruled much of the land east of the Great Forest.  All the lands west of the Great Forest were claimed by the Kingdom of Solura.  In the Great Forest itself lived the Forest Folk, whose ministrels often wandered all through the known world.  The world was stable, with few wars, until Nemith the Reckless attacked the Mountain Men of Gidestan to obtain the gold and silver believed to be plentiful there.  Then the colony in Kel Ar'Ayen, the new land across the sea, was attacked by strangers.  Suddenly, the Tormalian Empire collapsed in confusion and chaos.    With the empire went its primary form of magic.  Spells that had worked for generations suddenly failed.  Priests and wizards were blamed for these failures, persecuted, and killed.  Trydek, a tutor of a differing, and minor, form of magic based on the elements and available only to those born with the mage talent, gathered such mageborn as he could and fled to the island of Hadrumal.  From these refugees developed the now prevalent, and powerful, elemental magic.    In this novel, Livak is the by-blow of a Forest Folk ministel and her mother, and grandmother, have never let her forget her origins.  She ran away from her home in Vanam after one too many rounds of critical words from her mother.  Penniless and desperate for food and shelter, she decided to become a prostitute, but her first client was more interested in torture than sex.  Fortunately, she won the fight and escaped with only a few cuts and bruises.  Immediately thereafter, she mugged her first victim in a career of professional thievery and personal gambling.  She has since gained a number of larcenous friends throughout the region.    While waiting for her partner, Halice, Livak runs short of funds, so she burgles a house which she soon recognizes as the location of her close brush with torture and death ten years before.  After fantasies of stealing all its valuable contents, she limits herself to an antique tankard.  She tries to sell it to Darni, a supposed merchant buying antiquities, but he recognizes the item and accuses her of stealing it.  Luckily, he wants to use her to steal other articles, so she joins Darni, Geris, a scholar, and Shivvalan, a wizard, in their pursuit of antiquites.  After an unsuccessful attempt to escape is thwarted by Shiv's magic, she pledges not to try again and she is told that the group are buying, or stealing, these items for the Archmage, Planir, to re-discover the lost magics of the defunct Tormalian Empire.    Apparently some objects retain information about their former owners which manifest as dreams to the current possessors.  The mages have developed ways to bring out such information and are learning much more about the Empire.  However, they are concentrating primarily on ancient items which may have been owned by Imperial wizards.  They have discovered enough to classify the lost form of magic as aetheric -- which one scholar explains means \\"thin air\\" -- rather than elemental.    As Livak and the Archmage's agents progress in their search, they are attacked by short, blonde men using some kind of unknown magic.  Between Darni's vicious swordwork and Shiv's magic, with some help from Geris and Livak, they fight off the attackers, but find little of interest on the bodies.  Although Darni supposes that they are just bandits, Livak is unconvinced, for blondes are rare in these regions;  only among the Mountain Men of Gidestan would they be likely to see so many blondes in the same group.  Also, the attackers used a form of magic that Shiv could not even detect.  Moreover, they seem to have arrived on foot and Shiv had just scanned the whole area prior to the attack, finding no one.    In Inglis, Livak meets Ryshad over a casual game of White Raven and guesses that he too is looking for these blondes.  When she runs afoul of another group of hostile blondes with strange magic and then Geris is kidnapped by several blondes, Livak brings Ryshad into their band.  Since Ryshad, and his partner, Aiten, are agents of Messire D'Olbriot, they have additional resources to contribute to the hunt for Geris and the homebase of the blondes.    This novel is a mystery quest in a fantasy setting.  Who are the blonde men?  What caused the Empire to fall?  How does the \\"aetheric\\" magic work?  There is a certain amount of violence here and there, but the plot concentrates primarily on these questions.  There are also other agents working on the mystery, including Planir and other high-ranking wizards as well as Casuel, a minor mage, and his discovery, Allin, a mageborn whom he is taking to Hadrumal for training ... as soon as they can take care of all these irritating distractions.    This novel is compelling even on re-reading and seems to have an internal logic that is different  yet believable.  Livak has a character consistent with her history, yet much more empathic than most street people.  Ryshad is somewhat of a mystery in this novel, but is further developed in later volumes.  Planir is totally inscrutable, except through his deeds;  he seems to be working for the long-term best interests of society as a whole, sometimes to the short-term detriment of Hadrumal itself.     Highly recommended for anyone who enjoys tales of wizards and mages, thieves, warriors, and great adventure with some romance.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-04-30
1140661:US	49390985	R2C2IS4LITBPB4	0812513843	947559143	Dragon's Gold (Kelvin of Rud, No. 1)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A Potential Hero	Dragon's Gold is the first novel in the Kelvin of Rud series.  John Knight was a Terran and a fugitive from the Queen's dungeon when he meet Charlain while trying to steal her horse.  Charlain was a fortune-teller and knew that John was coming and that they would be married, so they were wed the next day and had two children, Kelvin and Jon.<br />In this novel, Kelvin and his sister Jon are dragon hunting with Mockery, the mule they have just bought.  Jon finds a scale and then another and then more, following the dropped dragon scales up and over the nearby hill.  On the other side is a dragon, which she first thinks is dead, but then only injured.  To resolve the problem, she bounces a stone off the dragon's snout with her sling and gets his attention.  Now she decides that she is in trouble and yells for Kelvin.  Coming down the hill, she falls in a hole and can't get out.  Kelvin goes to her rescue and falls into the same hole.<br />The dragon doesn't see Jon when he comes over the hill, but he does see Mockery.  As he goes after Mockery, Jon pops up, yells that he can't eat their mule, and bounces another stone off him.  Now the dragon is after Jon again.  When the dragon grabs Jon with his tongue, Kelvin and Jon drop a boulder on it.  The dragon reflexively lets go of Jon and tries to pull his tongue out with no success.  Kelvin sends Jon after the tent pole to use as a weapon.  Of course, she has to ask why he wants the pole and then checks out the injury on Mockery where the dragon has pulled out the mule's tail, but finally she brings back the tent pole.  Kelvin sharpens the pole and stabs the dragon in the eye, which causes the dragon to jerk up his head, with pole and Kelvin attached thereto.  The resulting fall knocks Kelvin unconscious.<br />When Kelvin comes to, he finds himself up a tree, the dragon dead, and Jon busy prying off scales.  They remove as many scales as they can reach without moving the dragon and start home.  However, a bandit acosts them, steals the scales, and heads off to sell Jon to the Boy Mart (he hasn't yet noticed that Jon is a girl).  Kelvin tries to stop him, but is totally ineffective.  The only thing left for him to do is to follow Jon and the bandit, but instead he goes home and reports the kidnapping.  The guardsmen identify the bandit -- a former guardsman -- but kick Kelvin out for wasting their time.  The youngest guardsman, however, refers Kelvin to his father, Mor Crumb.<br />This novel is about a prophecy of the Roundear that will unite the kingdoms of Rud.  Kelvin has round ears from his Terran father and so is supposed to fulfill the prophecy.  He has fought a dragon, but he has a long way to go before he is ready to lead armies.  His sword play needs a lot of work.  So does his aggressiveness;  Jon has more than he does.<br />This story is a magical quest tale, searching for the magical artifacts  of Mouvar the Magnificent.  On the way, Kelvin learns to fight and to be an effective leader.  He has plenty of help, starting with Jon and Mor Crumb.<br />Recommended for Anthony fans and anyone who enjoys light adventure tales with a touch of humor.	2003-04-30
1144019:US	49390985	RG9OM1UKE19C8	0553374451	354609409	Assassin's Apprentice (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Life and TImes of an Illegitimate Prince	Assassin's Apprentice is the first novel in the Farseer trilogy.  FitzChivalry, illegitimate son of Prince Chivalry, was given unto the care of his royal family by his maternal grandfather at the age of six years.  Since Prince Chivalry was away at the time, Fitz was passed on to Burrich, the caretaker of Chivalry's horses, dogs, and birds, and he was housed in the stables with Burrich's other charges.  This close proximity, however, fostered an unfortunate Witted bond between Fitz and Nosy, one of the pups.  Meanwhile, this previous unknown member of the family triggered a heated disagreement between the King Shrewd and his current spouse, Queen Desire, as well as much discussion among the rest of the royal household.  Prince Regal was convinced that Fitz would take away his place in the line of succession and complained publicly.  But  Chivalry cut short most of these arguments by abdicating his position as heir apparent.    As an illegitimate Royal, Fitz has no chores nor has he been assigned a tutor, so he basically runs wild with Nosy.  They soon encounter other children, including the girl Nosebleed, whose real name is Molly.  She is about a year or so older than Fitz and is so feisty that she will even fight the older boys if they get too bossy.  Her father is a drunk and hits her when he is drinking, but when he threatens Molly as she is playing with the children, Fitz uses Wit to \\"push\\" him so that he falls down and loses consciousness.  Despite her sassy attitude toward her father, Molly is terrified that he has died, but he soon wakes up and Molly helps him home.    Fitz and the other children performs odd jobs in order to buy treats and such, but sometimes the kids just steal things.  One day, they are running from a merchant with a string of stolen sausage when Burrich steps out of a shop into their path.  Burrich cuffs Fitz and sends him and Nosy home.  Suspecting a Witted bond between the two, Burrich tests Nosy, confirms his suspicions, takes Nosy away, and breaks the bond.  Thereafter, Burrich watches for another bond forming, but Fitz fools him by creating a partial bond with many animals instead of a single bond.    In his tenth year, King Shrewd changes Fitz's life again by providing him with tutors in riding, reading and swordplay.  He is also assigned a room in the castle itself and a place to sit in the dining hall.  He soon meets Mistress Hasty and learns all the gossip about his advent in the world and in society, much of which he had never known before, while being measured for his clothes.  He also becomes the apprentice of the Royal Assassin, Chade, another illegitimate child of the royalty.    When Chivalry dies, Burrich shaves his head and cuts Fitz's hair in mourning.  Complaining of the haircut to Chade, Fitz mentions that his father had never cared for him, but is then told that Chivalry HAD cared enough to ignore him, thereby diverting jealousy and suspicion that might have otherwise caused his death.    This novel is an interesting tale of a talented and clever boy growing up in a feudal society amidst ambition and intrigue, but protected to some degree by his obvious lack of power and influence.  In reality, his grandfather the king, his father, and Chade are powerful patrons who ensure that he receives many of the advantages of the legitimate princes.  Moreover, it is the story of a person who has both the Wit, an empathy with animals found only among the indigenous population, and the Skill, the telepathy found only among those with royal blood.    While this is her first novel under the name Robin Hobb, the author has already written a number of excellent fantasies under the name Megan Lindholm;  these tales are known for the credibility of the heroes and heroines, often bewitching the reader into a vicarious identification with the main characters.  This story, moreover, is the most complex, and best crafted, work to date.  While this series has some action scenes, they are few and understated;  the emphasis is upon character and political development.    Highly recommended for Lindholm fans and anyone who enjoys tales of political intrigue and magic, with believable characters, in a medieval setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-04-27
1145637:US	49390985	RO3DJ171L22E1	0915368463	408042263	The Best of James H. Schmitz	Books	5	21	21	N	Y	A Book of Wonders	The Best of James H. Schmitz is a selection of stories published by NESFA as the first in their \\"Choice\\" series.  Its genesis was a panel conducted by the editor, Mark L. Olson, during Boskone 27 \\"which proved that Schmitz still has fans out there\\".  It contains an introduction by Janet Kagan and a bibliography of Schmitz's SF works in addition to nine stories.<br />The introduction provides a rather good analysis of Schmitz's characters, plots, and style, but doesn't much address his environments, probably due to length considerations.  A more extensive analysis of these environments is provided by Eric Flint in the Baen editions of Schmitz's SF works.<br />\\"Grandpa\\" is a story of a Colonial team that found a surprise in the ecology of an unexplored planet.  \\"Lion Loose\\" is a Quillan tale wherein he gains an unusual ally.  \\"Just Curious\\" is about a unique mental ability and the reaction of a man who has been subjected to it.  \\"The Second Night of Summer\\" tells what Grimp and Grandma did during summer vacation.  \\"Novice\\" is another summer vacation story, in which Telzey drives her Aunt Halet to hysterics.  \\"Balanced Ecology\\" is the story of an environent that adopts a human family.  \\"The Custodians\\" is a tale of a hijacking and a man's conscience.  \\"Sour Note On Palayata\\" is a Psychological Service story about consciousness and wisdom.  \\"Goblin Night\\" is a yarn about Telzey, Chomir and a spook.<br />This collection is a fairly balanced selection of the author's short works, ranging from the quite familiar to the fairly obscure.  Although not necessarily the \\"best\\" of his short stories, all are interesting and enjoyable and have that characteristic sense of wonder.  While this is a good starting point for readers who have never before encountered this author, serious fans will also want to buy the Baen publications, which contain so much more.<br />Highly recommended to Schmitz fans and anyone who enjoys interstellar adventure with a sense of wonder.	2003-04-25
1146200:US	49390985	R211NZ6DZQ0QRN	0670488151	599569713	Moon of Three Rings	Books	5	7	9	N	N	The Price of Pride	Moon of Three Rings is the first novel in the Moonsinger series.  Krip Vorland is assistant cargomaster on the Free Trader ship Lydis.  Maelen of the Kontra is a Moon Singer of the Thassa.  Both have come to Yrjar on Yiktor for the great trade fair.<br /><br />In this novel, Maelen has been approached by Osokun, son of Oskold, and an off-worlder, Gauk Slafid, of the Combine.  They want Maelen to lure a member of the Lydis crew into a trap to gain off-world knowledge and weapons.  Maelen refuses, yet is troubled by the plot.  When Krip and a fellow crew member attend her beast show, she has her partner, Malec, approach the off-worlders, offer a tour of the show, and then bring them to her so that she might question them and better understand the conspiracy against the Free Traders.<br /><br />After she has introduced all the animals to the Free Traders, she asks  them about the possibility of a touring beast show among the stars, but then they are interrupted by a oddjob boy, who she has tasked with watching an animal dealer, Othelm of Ylt, suspected of abusing his creatures.  When Maelen begs leave to go, Krip asks permission to accompany her and they go to the dealer's tent, where they find a badly abused barsk.  As  Maelen goes to the animal, Othelm tries to attack her with a poisoned snik-claw knife, but Krip paralyzes his hand with a stunner.  Maelen provides a token payment for the beast and removes it from Othelm's custody.<br /><br />Krip reports the incident to his captain.  After checking the persona tape on Krip's belt, the captain absolves him of any wrong doing, but still limits him to the ship and the ship's fair booth as a precaution.  Later the duty priest and fair guards come to take Krip for judgment.  Since he is busy with important customers, the captain stays behind but retains Krip's stunner and sends along another crew member.  The priest and guards escort Krip to the fringe of the fairgrounds, where they are attacked by another party and Krip is taken captive.<br /><br />After recovering full consciousness, Krip finds himself in a pit within a Yiktor fort.  Osokun has found another way to gain a captive for his plot to extort weapons and knowledge.  While he is waiting for a reply to his demands, Osokun also has Krip tortured in an attempt to break the off-world conditioning.  When Krip awakens again, he knows that the only way that he is going to survive is to escape his captors.<br /><br />After Krip's capture, Maelen senses his condition and leaves the fair to rescue him, taking along the barsk and several other animals with useful capabilities and skills.  She doesn't know where Krip is located, but follows the pull of her wand eastward.<br /><br />Like some other novels by the author, this story is just barely science fiction, for it postulates powers that are much like the magic of Witch World.  Some of these powers are beyond the present day speculations of psionics;  switching identities between bodies, for example, is an old standby of fantasy tales, but not in the parapsychological repertoire.  However, this notion has been used in a variety of SF tales, including Schmitz's \\"Resident Witch\\".<br /><br />This novel also differs from most other works by the author in that the heroine initially appears less than lovable.  While caring deeply for her animal friends, Maelen has little empathy for anyone who is not Thassa (and not much even for the Thassa).  Moreover, she arrogantly believes that she is more capable than any other living Moon Singer, as evidenced by her belief that she will be the first to tame a wild barsk.  However, these flaws of personality are quite deliberate, as the storyline takes a step beyond the coming of age tale to an account of developing maturity and wisdom.<br /><br />Recommended to Norton fans and anyone who enjoys tales of personal and interpersonal growth in a space adventure setting.<br /><br />-Arthur W. Jordinter recovering full consciousness, Krip finds himself in a pit within a Yiktor fort.  Osokun has found another way to gain a captive for his plot to extort weapons and knowledge.  While he is waiting for a reply to his demands, Osokun also has Krip tortured in an attempt to break the off-world conditioning.  When Krip awakens again, he knows that the only way that he is going to survive is to escape his captors.    After Krip's capture, Maelen senses his condition and leaves the fair to rescue him, taking along the barsk and several other animals with useful capabilities and skills.  She doesn't know where Krip is located, but follows the pull of her wand eastward.    Like some other novels by the author, this story is just barely science fiction, for it postulates powers that are much like the magic of Witch World.  Some of these powers are beyond the present day speculations of psionics;  switching identities between bodies, for example, is an old standby of fantasy tales, but not in the parapsychological repertoire.   However, this notion has been used in a variety of SF tales, including Schmitz's \\"Resident Witch\\".    This novel also differs from most other works by the author in that the heroine initially appears less than lovable.  While caring deeply for her animal friends, Maelen has little empathy for anyone who is not Thassa (and not much even for the Thassa).  Moreover, she arrogantly believes that she is more capable than any other living Moon Singer, as evidenced by her belief that she will be the first to tame a wild barsk.  However, these flaws of personality are quite deliberate, as the storyline takes a step beyond the coming of age tale to an account of developing maturity and wisdom.    Recommended to Norton fans and anyone who enjoys tales of personal and interpersonal growth in a space adventure setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-04-25
1147991:US	49390985	R22GIFTAF1XTTV	0670796514	522184436	Zero Stone	Books	5	22	25	N	N	An Eet and His Boy	The Zero Stone (1968) is the first novel in the Murdoc Jern series.  Murdoc is the son of Hywel Jern, a former prime assessor to a sector boss of the Thieves' Guild who bought out when his patron was assassinated.  Hywel migrated to Angkor and married the daughter of a local hock-lock operator.    Shortly after the marriage, his in-laws -- and many others in the vicinity of the port -- died from disease brought by a plague ship.  Yet Hywel and his wife survived and even performed some of the necessary governmental functions during the emergency.  Some five years later, Angkor became a hub for interstellar trade in that sector.  The Jern business thrived through Hywel's many off-world contacts, both legal and illegal.  But Hywel maintained a low profile, operating from the same modest hock-lock.    One day, the first officer of a spaceliner brought in a ring with a dull stone that was found in interstellar space, far from any star, on the finger of a spacesuited corpse.  The crude stone is plain and cloudy, but has a remarkable hardness.  The stone gives an impression of great power to Hywel and Murdoc, but not to the rest of the family.    Hywel is obsessed with the stone and arranges an apprenticeship for Murdoc with Vondar Ustle -- a master gemologist who searches for new sources of precious stones -- so that Murdoc can search for more information on the ring and stone.  Murdoc is well satisfied with his life as apprentice to Vondar.  Returning for a visit, Murdoc finds that he no longer fits into his family.    One evening, Hywel stays home to conduct some business while the rest of the family goes to a party.  Leaving the party earlier, Murdoc returns home to find his father tied to his chair, bloody and dead.  Murdoc takes the ring and stone from its hiding place and leaves his home forever.    In this novel, Murdoc and Vondar have come to Koonga City on Tanth searching for gems.  They are dining in a taproom when the Green Robes, native priests, enter, spin their selection wheel to point between Murdoc and Vondar, and try to take both men.  Murdoc kills one priest, fights his way clear, and then finds sanctuary with the priests of Noskald.    These priests arrange for a Free Trader, the Vestris, to take Murdoc off-world.  The crew treats him in a distant, but civil manner, but his only companion is the ship's cat, Valcyr.  When the ship sets down on a primitive planet, Valcyr accompanies Murdoc as he explores the area.  When Murdoc finds some bits of a curiously dull black substance that forms an extremely hard but fuzzy oval, Valcyr takes the largest specimen and starts to lick it.  Murdoc tries to take it away from her, but gets clawed for his efforts.  When a crewman tries to get the specimen, Valcyr runs off with it and hides.  Murdoc and the crewman find her again, but she then swallows it.    When they return to the ship, the Medico tests Valcyr and the specimens;  he determines that the black ovals are alive at a low level as if hibernating and that Valcyr is now pregnant.  Since there is a possibility that Valcyr is not carrying ordinary kittens, she is locked in a cage within the sick bay.    About four weeks later, she disappears from the cage and is next seen in Murdoc's cabin with a newborn animal, Eet, that is not a kitten.  And then Murdoc finds himself covered with purple blotches and feeling feverish.  At this point, Murdoc and Eet leave the Vestris, Murdoc in a spacesuit and Eet in a clear-sided box, to escape the plague-fearing, frantic crew.    This novel has some of the signature characteristics of the author's space adventure tales, including the outcast Murdoc, the telepathic Eet, and alien artifacts.  However, this story is one of the wanderlust kind, much like Star Man's Son and the Solar Queen series, where the hero/heroine goes on to discover new adventures.    The creature Eet is rather unique in the author's space adventures, having a human level of intelligence, yet possessing an animal body.Eet combines the friendly alien, symbiotic animal, and mutated talents aspects of these tales, all in one body, sort of a highly evolved version of the meerkats in The Beast Master.    While this story is not one of my favorites, it still provides the same high level of storycraft one expects of the author.  The characters are interesting but not as enthralling as some of the other tales.  The relationship between Murdoc and Eet is not clear, but one feels as if Eet is much superior to Murdoc, yet is handicapped by his inadequate body.  Is Murdoc a pet to Eet?    Recommended for Norton fans and anyone who enjoys space adventures involving a young hero and a mysterious alien.     -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-04-23
1149097:US	49390985	RSOQ9DA1PKOKC	0152060499	864496271	The Beast Master	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A Man of the People	The Beast Master (1959) is the first novel in the Beast Master series.  Hosteen Storm is a native of Terra, an Amerindian, a Galactic Commando, and a Beast Master with an unusual affinity with animals, who is mustering out of the service to be repatriated on Arzor.  \\"The last desperate thrust of the Xik invaders had left Terra...a deadly blue, radioactive cinder\\", leaving the native Terrans homeless and in shock.  Some had gone mad, killing themselves and others.  Finally, all Terran troops had been forcibly disarmed.  Since Hosten has not displayed any symptoms of such delayed shock, the service medics reluctantly agreed they could not deny Storm's release.    Storm travels with Baku, Ho, Hing and Surra -- his commando team -- to Arzor on a troop ferry and then looks for employment herding horses to the auction to be held during the Gathering at Irrawady Crossing.  To prove his ability to ride, he tames a young stallion and introduces him to Surra, the dune cat.  When the horse tolerates the cat breathing in his nose, Storm gets the job without further questioning.  He claims the stallion as his working mount and names him Rain-On-Dust.    Since the horse herd is an attraction for covetous natives as well as wild animals, Surra patrols the camp at night and Baku, the African Black Eagle, scouts the route by day as they proceed cross-country to the Gathering.  On the first night, they encounter a yoris and Storm, Surra and Baku kill the lizard in a coordinated attack before it can harm the horses.  But its scent and hissing causes the horses to stampede.    With the herd scattered all over the area, the drivemaster hires some Norbies, the local native sentients, to track down the horses.  It soon becomes evident that someone has separated the herd and stashed the small bands in out of the way places.  However, even the Norbie trackers cannot determine who has done this.    While the horses are being returned to the herd, Storm spends some time gentling a few of thewild stock to replace riding animals lost in the stampede.  The other men soon come to respect his skills and he gains an even closer relationship with Put Larkin -- the drivemaster -- and Dort Lancin -- an old Arzor hand -- who is teaching him finger talk and other lore.  However, Coll Bister has developed a hostile attitude toward Storm for some unknown reason.    Storm has also become accepted by the Norbies as a fighting man with a fighting bird totem.  Gorgol, the youngest of the trackers, is drawn to Storm by admiration and curiosity, providing him with lots of chances to practice finger talk as he answers Gorgol's questions.    At the gathering, Storm fends off a couple of attempts to kill or maim him, in which Bister seems to be involved, and meets Brad Quade, the man he has come to Arzor to see, but not quite yet.  He accepts a job with the Survey Service to locate and explore the Sealed Caves within the High Peaks.    This novel is vintage Norton, but with an older protagonist than usual.  However, there is the psionic bond between man and animal, natives who are strangely like his own kin, and a deadly danger that must be faced.  Moreover, there is the element of hope that survives among disaster.    Highly recommended for Norton fans and anyone who enjoys tales of competent and talented persons, dangerous but friendly animals, and mysterious alien artifacts.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-04-22
1149664:US	49390985	R15200MMY0VNGV	0839824157	607616178	Sargasso of Space	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A Man of Trade	Sargasso of Space (1955) is the first novel in the Solar Queen series.  This volume and the next two Solar Queen novels were first published under the pseudonym of Andrew North.  In this novel, Dane Thorson is a newly graduated cargo-apprentice from the Trade Training Pool reporting for his first assignment.  As he waits with some of his former classmates for the Psycho computer to match him with a Trade organization, the others are assigned to interstellar companies -- Inter-Solar and the Combine -- and even the local Martian-Terran Incorporated line, but Dane is assigned to the lowest of lows, a Free Trader ship, the Solar Queen.  However, the demeaning attitude of the other recruits only triggers Dane's stubbornness and determination to succeed in his assignment.  After he has a not very enjoyable last meal with his former classmates, Dane is joined by two crewmen from the Solar Queen who have overheard the name of their ship.  They introduce themselves as Rip Shannon, astrogator-apprentice, and Ali Kamil, engineer-apprentice, and accompany him back to their ship.  There Dane meets Captain Jellico, Cargomaster Van Rycke, Astrogator Wilcox, Com-Tech Tang Ya, Chief Engineer Stotz, Jetmen Kosti and Weeks, Medic Tau, Cook-steward Mura, the ship's cat Sinbad, and the Captain's Hoobat.  The first port of call is Naxos, where the Solar Queen buys ten-year trading rights to a planet, Limbo, in a Survey auction.  The planet has been burnt off, but not completely.  While their prospects don't look promising, a charter from an archaeological expedition interested in the Forerunner artifacts on Limbo will pay for the voyage.  They blast off to Limbo the following morning.  On Limbo, the Solar Queen crew finds ancient ruins, strange machines, wrecked ships, and space pirates.  They have to use all their skills, ingenuity, and courage to survive.  This novel has some of the signature characteristics found in many of the author's SF works, with Dane being an orphan and an outsider who eventually finds a niche of his own.  But it differs from most later works in that Dane starts to feel at home on the Solar Queen even before going aboard.  However, Dane becomes part of a human team, as in [[ASIN:0449236463 Star Guard]] and [[ASIN:0441123163 The Crossroads of Time]], so alien sentients do not occupy a central role in this novel as in [[ASIN:0449240762  Star Rangers]].  Moreover, the animals play an important role in the series, but are more valued adjuncts rather than team members.  As with other novels of this period, the tale emphasizes teamwork over individual accomplishment.  Each contributes their own unique expertise and viewpoint to strengthen the team.  As with Star Rangers and Star Guard, this novel starts with a high degree of acceptance and companionship among the Solar Queen crew;  in later works, such as [[ASIN:0441787444 Storm Over Warlock]], active cooperation and good feeling is exceptional and occurs only at the end of the tales after much hard work and good fortune.  This story is one of the author's best accepted works, as witness the number of sequels.  In many respects, this series is the positive side of the author's worldview.  Despite the many hazards and trials of his chosen career and ship, Dane is part of a tight-knit group that freely gives acceptance and respect to each other.  Many of the other tales by this author feature young persons who are desperately trying to obtain such relationships.  The next installment in this sequence is [[ASIN:0441668364 Plague Ship]].  This novel and Plague Ship are also available within the omnibus edition [[ASIN:0765300559 Solar Queen]].  Highly recommended to Norton fans and anyone who enjoys tales of young persons striving for competence and success within a SF setting.  -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-04-22
1150101:US	49390985	R162EVLRGQH9TJ	0886778182	622962887	Beholder's Eye (Web Shifters)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Rite of Passage	Beholder's Eye is the first novel in the Web Shifters series.  Esen-alit-Quar is the most recent member of the Web of Ersh and the only member who isn't a product of fissioning by Ersh;  Esen is an offspring of Ansky and her Lanivarian lover and the only one of their cubs who can shift.  For over five centuries, Ersh and the others have trained her to function as an observer of sentient life, but Esen has also persisted in pranks and escapades that always get her into trouble.  But now Esen is finally ready for her first independent assignment.    In this novel, Esen is taken to Kraos to observe the life and ecology on that planet.  However, she spends weeks trying to work up the nerve to move among the population, first taking on the form of the sentient species and then cycling back to her Web form.  After using most of the nearby living mass to energize the cycles, hunger forces her to shift into Lanivarian form and retain it.  Pretending to be a native canine, she moves among the natives, eavesdropping, snooping and otherwise gathering the required information.    After 600 days into the assignment, she discovers that a Commonwealth First Contact team has arrived on the planet and contacted the natives.    Two commercial missions have already disappeared on Kraos and she has learned that the natives also intend to capture this new ship and kill its crew.  Two members of the First Contact team are killed and the third, Paul Ragem, is captured along with Esen in her canine form, but Paul and Esen managed to escape from a dungeon and warn the ship of the hostility of the natives.    Unfortunately, the First Contact team has a vid of Esen changing from her canine form to a Ycl to save Paul from a deadly fungus powder which was sprinkled on his body by the natives.  Moreover, the stress of the interview with Senior Specialist and Acting Captain Lionel Kearn and Sas, the Modoren Security Officer, has caused her to explosively shift back to her Lanvarian form, causingminor damage to the personnel and fittings in Kearn's office.    Esen is in big trouble with the Web for violating security.  After reviewing the events of this chain of fiascoes, and literally chewing her out, Ersh sends her back to learn the extent of the damage caused by these exposures.  This time she takes on the form of a Ket, a very humanoid species with great massage skills.    This novel is mostly about the evolving relationship between Esen and Paul.  In some respects, this novel is much like Heinlein's Star Beast from the point of view of the alien.  Although centuries old and very knowledgeable, Esen is very young relative to her potential lifetime.  All her forms are also young relative to the species (her human form is about ten years old).  Thus, Esen sometimes seems very wise and other times incredibly foolish.    This novel, however, has plenty of action and plots within plots.  One of the minor themes in this novel, and the whole series, is the very irritating behavior of bureaucrats.  Another may be the vagaries of architects, both in expanding existing structures and in deconstructing existing structures to build new ones.    Recommended for Czerneda fans and anyone who enjoys tales of young aliens becoming friends with humans.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-04-22
1152939:US	49390985	R2W5JGYF0I2GN2	0839824181	197392238	The Crossroads of Time (The Space Adventure Novels of Andre Norton)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Catching the Crosstime Shuttle	The Crossroads of Time (1956) is the first novel in the Crosstime series.  Blake Walker is an entering art student at Havers who is staying in a hotel prior to registering at the school.  He is an orphan who was found in an alley by two policemen, one of whom became his foster father.  Since both of his foster parents are now dead, he has no known kin.    In this novel, Blake has a premonition that something dangerous is about to occur in his vicinity and, when it peaks, he is drawn to the corridor.  After easing the door open, he finds a man holding a gun on another man who is unlocking the room across the way.  Blake grabs the gunman's throat and yanks his head back, providing the other man with an opportunity to knock the gunman unconscious.  The rescued man introduces himself as Kittson, an FBI agent.  Soon, two of Kittson's associates come and take away the gunman.  Shortly thereafter, someone identifying himself as a hotel security officer knocks on Blake's door, but Kittson tells Blake to say that he is going to check with the desk and the stranger goes away.    Since someone is obviously curious about the recent events, Kittson takes Blake with him when he leaves.  They travel to a loft apartment atop a warehouse, where Blake finds three other men in addition to Mark Kittson.  Apparently, these men are doing a great deal of reading, for piles of books, with numerous bookmarks, are all around the living room.  One of the men, Jason Saxton, claims that the books are part of his hobby, the study of history, and turns the conversation to the subject of decision points in history causing diverging timelines.  Later, Blake is awakened to find Kittson injured and being helped into another bedroom.  The next day, that bedroom is locked and then someone or something comes up the elevator to the outside door and sends a mental presence into the room, attacking Blake.  Although Blake holds out for a while, he collapses after the attacking presence is scared off by thereturning agents.    When the others learn of the intrusion, they prepare to move their operation elsewhere.  However, they tell Blake a little more about the crosstime secret and their mission to catch a power-mad renegade.  Blake learns just enough to pretend to be totally ignorant of the true mission when he later falls into the hands of the opposition.    While not the first of its type, this novel is an early example of travel between probability universes or alternate timelines, such as in Smith's The Probability Broach.  It did precede Piper's Paratime series by a few years but has a similar premise.  The author has only written one other novel in this series to date:  Quest Crosstime.    This story features psionic powers, but lacks many of the other characteristic plot elements of the author's later works.  However, the author does include an ordinary kitten who plays a significant role in defeating the villain.  I found the story to be interesting, maybe for nostalgic reasons, but it is not one of her best works.    Recommended for Norton fans and anyone who enjoys SF adventures in strange universes.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-04-19
1155348:US	49390985	R2MA8F5M3GHNYX	0812545745	620124644	Skirmish (Skyrider Vol 1)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	She Is a Tough Guy and Hotshot Pilot	Skirmish (1985) is the first novel in the Skyrider series.  Melacha Rendell, the Skyrider, is a Belter shuttle pilot with family on Earth and Mars.  She sat out the Colonial Incident -- which the Colonials called a war -- and has felt guilty ever since.  She also feels guilty over the loss of her boyfriend, Djano, in her shuttle when an blocked airfilter blew a vent with overpressure.  To overcompensate, she plays her role as a swashbuckling mercenary with some desperation.  She is a Floater, with one Grounder gene and one Faller gene;  thus, she is equally at home in gravity or freefall.    In this novel, she is cut off in a landing on the flight deck of Main Base and goes looking for the pilot to rearrange his face.  After one good punch, she notes that the pilot, Jamin, is a Faller and refrains from further blows.  She soon realizes that he hides his gravity pains and so looks much more arrogant than he really is.  Strangely enough, Jamin has an adopted son, Collis, who is a Grounder;  he not only has the normal Grounder problems with freefall, but also has some kind of inner ear problem that goes straight his stomach whenever he is not in gravity.  Therefore, Jamin spends most of his time at Main Base in the artificial gravity section ... and in pain.  Although Skyrider doesn't care much for Jamin at first, she likes Collis immediately.  Soon the two become her best friends and, although she doesn't admit it even to herself, she begins to think of both of them as family.    Even thought the Colonials have lost the war, some progress has been made in Earth-Mars relationships, but the Belt hasn't gained much if anything.  Another war has been brewing for some time and now a spaceliner, the Marabou, has been sabotaged, supposedly by Colonial Insurrectionist.  The engines have been damaged, all pilots have been killed, and the ship is headed sunward.  A Space Patrol ship has tried to dock with repair parts and another pilot, but muffed the approach, killing the rescue crew.  Since Skyrider is the best pilot in the Belt, the Company wants Skyrider to make the rescue and are willing to give her a Falcon shuttle and free maintenance for the attempt.  She agrees and takes Jamin along to pilot the liner.    However, someone doesn't want them to succeed and arranges several small acts of sabotage directed against Jamin and herself and also murders his babysitter.  Skyrider begins to suspect that something not so obvious is going on.    This novel is not great literature nor even great science fiction.  However, it is a fun read, with a fairly believable heroine who has a horror of appearing altruistic.  A real tough guy who buys teddy bears for her relatives, but don't tell anyone or it will ruin the image.  An entertaining story that will make you forget your troubles as you read about hers.    Highly recommended for anyone who enjoys space adventure tales with tough guy heroines who are suckers for cute, blue-eyed, six year old kids.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-04-17
1155379:US	49390985	R2D2M9VSRARZIT	0886779049	321390679	Changing Vision (Web Shifters)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A False Friend and a True Enemy	Changing Vision (2000) is the second SF novel in the Web Shifters series, following Beholder's Eye.  In the previous volume, the Web of Ersh has been destroyed and Esen-alit-Quar has baited and terminated Death.  Acting Captain Kearn thinks Paul Ragem is dead, but still searches for the Esen Monster.  However, Esen has relocated to Minas XII in the Fringe and, to her surprise, is soon followed by Paul.  The Garson's World survivors led by Joel Largas have also settled on Minas XII.    In this novel, fifty years have passed since these events.  Paul has become Web-kin to Esen and they are now using the names Paul Cameron and Esolesy Ki.  They have started a small business, Cameron & Ki Exports, on Minas XII and have close business and personal ties with Largas Freight.  Their company is having a small party for employees and business associates, and a few of Meony-ro's friends, to celebrate their fiftieth anniversity.  They are called out of the party to attend to a dying Ganthor mercenary whose Herd has been abandoned by their employer;  Esen shifts to her Ganthor form and convinces the Ganthor to join their small Herd, thereby easing his dying.    Later that evening, the staff surprises Esen with a gift: tickets to the Panacia Hiveworld, D'Dsel.  Since Esen hasn't gone offworld since her arrival, Paul thinks a vacation will be good for her, but Esen hates surprises and doesn't want to go.  After returning home, they exchange gifts:  Esen gives Paul a medallion with the company logo containing a small piece of Web-form in cyro storage and Paul gives her a holoshow containing vids of 110 different humans.      The next morning, they meet with Captain Janet Chase, who is chasing Paul, to learn about the boarding of her ship by Tly inspectors and the confiscation of her cargo.  Paul also asks about the contents of the courier pouch, which the Tly have taken, but only after Chase had transferred the contents to another case, which she gives to Paul.  Chase also has newsof a new sentient species, the Feneden, which have come to D'Dsel to negotiate a trade agreement.  Esen does not like Chase, who has tried to break up the Cameron & Ki partnership, but is pointly polite in the meeting until Chase tries to kiss Paul, whereupon one of Esen's large Lishcyn feet strikes a table leg and spills hot pyati with cream all over Paul and Chase.    Esen flees this fiasco to their private greenhouse over the warehouse.  While sulking there, Joel Largas arrives to putter around with the plants and gives Esen a figurative shoulder to cry on and some paternal advice.  He also spoils Paul's surprise:  they are leaving for D'Dsel that night on the Galactic Goddess.  Esen hates surprises ... and the stupid hat that everyone on the tour has to wear.  Nevertheless, they are off to Panacia and Esen hopes that they will meet the Feneden, for she hasn't encountered an unknown sentient species in seventy-four standard years.    As usual, things don't work out quite as simply as Esen wishes.  They encounter Rudy Lefebvre, Captain of the Russell III and Paul's cousin, who is hunting evidence of Paul's innocence of aiding the Esen Monster.  Project Leader Kearn is also on the Russell III and he is looking for the Esen Monster itself and finds kindred souls in the Feneden.  Tly Inspector Logan is on the the Black Watch and he is looking for a superweapon to use against Inhaven.  Somehow, the common factor in all these ships and persons is the need to find Esen.    This novel continues the bureacratic theme with Quebit manuals:  when Quebits were first discovered, linguists spend a lifetime translating a sewage system installation manual.  Moreover, there is even more about architects on D'Dsel.    This novel introduces Esen's Human-self to Paul.  While too small and weak for most purposes, it makes an admirable ghost, with a few dashes of a red juice for blood, to use against the superstitious Tly.    Recommended for Czerneda fans and anyone who enjoys zany adventures with likeable people in a SF setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-04-17
1157117:US	49390985	R3OUXS2K8U3TF3	0380977087	492544464	Talon of the Silver Hawk (Conclave of Shadows, Book 1)	Books	5	9	15	N	N	Agent of Retribution	Talon of the Silver Hawk is the first novel in the Conclave of Shadows series.  Kielianapuna is an Orosini boy who is undergoing his manhood ritual.  Waiting on the mountainside, fasting and with only herbal infused water to drink, Kieli longs for a vision to show his adult name.  On the third day of the ritual, he has not yet had a vision and he must leave soon, for he only has a few sips of water remaining.  Then he notices the vultures gathering over Kapomi village and realizes that raiders are within the hills and that his village, Kulaam, will probably be the next target.  He drinks his remaining water and takes a few wobbly steps down the hill, but slips and falls, injuring his left arm.  Trying to stand, he becomes nauseated, falls back, vomits, and loses consciousness.    Almost immediately, a sharp pain on his left arm arouses him and he finds a silver hawk perched on his side, flexing its talons on his arm.  As he stares into the black eyes of the hawk, he receive a message in his mind  telling him \\"Rise and be a talon for your people\\".  The bird launches itself over his shoulder and Kieli stands and starts for his village.  When he arrives there, hie finds the raiders killing all within the village.  He takes a sword from one raider and kills him, then rushes the raid leaders from their rear, but is shot with a crossbow before he can quite reach them.  He faints from the loss of blood from his various injuries, but his last sight is on the silver hawk circling above, telling him \\"Linger, little brother, for your time is not yet\\".    The boy awakes in the village as he is attended by two men and several times later as they journey down to the lowlands.  He finally regains full consciousness in a stable and learns that he has told the men during his previous periods of brief consciousness that he is Talon of the Silver Hawk.  The men are Robert de Lyis and Pasko and the stable is part of an inn owned by Kendricks.  Others working at the inn include Leo, thecook, and his wife, Martha, the baker, as well as Lela, Meggie, Lars, and Gibbs, the kitchen help and servers.  Two other men, Magnus and Caleb, are brothers and associates of Robert. After reminding Talon that a life debt is owed, Robert tests Talon's skills and orgainizes a course of training while he is at the inn.  Kendricks teaches him the rudiments of sword fighting, Caleb adds to his hunting and tracking knowledge, Pasko teaches everyday wisdom, Robert teaches him reading, Leo teaches him cooking, and everybody teaches him to speak Roldemish.    After some time, Talon is magically transported by Magnus to a far off island.  There Talon lives in a hut with a transforming interior while he continues his lessons, now including magic.  One day, while Magnus is away, the hut is visited by death-dancers, shadows darker that the night, who nearly kill Talon, although he gets in a few good licks.  After his rescue, Talon learns that the other occupants of the island are part of the Conclave of Shadows.  Although many are magicians, others are agents without magical talents, and the Conclave wants him to become such an agent.  Since the alternative is to lose all his memories and become someone else, Talon accepts the offer, swearing loyalty to the Conclave.  Despite this, Talon still doesn't know why they selected him or what they expect him to accomplish.  He is told, however, that the next step is to make him the greatest swordsman in the world.    This novel takes place in Midkemia, the same world as the Krondar and SerpentWar series.  However, the action takes place fifty years or more after the Riftwar and most of the people have changed.  The Nameless One is now working through Kaspar, Duke of Olasko, who wants to conquer the Kingdom of the Isles.  His agents have killed Talon's people and have other targets in mind.  Everything Talon knows is driving him to kill the Duke, but first he has to kill the Duke's minions, for he probably will not survive the Duke'sdeath.    In some ways, this novel moves very slowly.  Like the story of young Pug, much of the plot involves Talon's training and experiences.  The only real action that occurs is a few minutes during Talon's matches in the Tournament of Masters and the attack on the Orodon village.  Thus, it is fairly obvious that this novel is establishing the characters and scenery for the rest of the series.      Talon is naive and ignorant, but readily absorbs everything taught to him.  Overall, he is a very interesting and admirable young man.  Nevertheless, he almost too patient with his mentors, trainers and handlers.  Sinc Talon is the last living Orosini, I keep being reminded of Cooper's The Last of the Mohicans, but Robert is no Leatherstocking.    Recommended for Feist fans and anyone who enjoys tales of noble savages adjusting to civilization.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-04-16
1159452:US	49390985	R3O5QSZWO19O7S	0808521195	496469815	Dragonflight (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition) (Dragonriders of Pern Trilogy (Hardcover))	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A Time for Dragons	Dragonflight (1968) is the first novel in the Dragonriders of Pern trilogy.  The settlers on Pern discovered the hard way that their planet is periodically swept by giant virus-like organisms that fall from the sky and eat away living things like an acid.  Since these threads are susceptible to fire, the settlers have developed an organic weapon to defend against the infestations:  fire-breathing dragons.  However, these threads have not appeared for several centuries and mankind is beginning to lose the hard-earned knowledge and customs that form the core of their defense, to the point of letting the dragons and riders of the weyrs dwindle to a fraction of the necessary muster.  Now only Benden Weyr is occupied.    In this novel,  Lessa had been the lawful heir of Ruatha Hold, but Lord Fax has conquered this hold and four others and now Lessa is posing as a kitchen drudge.  Flightleader F'lar of Benden Weyr has come to the High Reaches searching for candidates to impress a Queen in the next hatching.  After visiting Lord Fax's Hold, Crom, and the various guild halls, the dragonriders travel to the other five held by the High Reaches, finally coming to Ruatha.  Fax's Lady, Gemma, is about ready to birth another child and, when he becomes disgusted with the vile experience provided to him by the hold and with a little nudging by Lessa, Fax renounces his claim to Ruatha in the favor of Gemma's child, if it is male and lives.  Lady Gemma dies in childbirth, but the boy child lives.  Moreover, Fax attacks Lessa and F'lar comes to her rescue, killing Fax in a fair duel.  Lessa then abdicates her claim to Ruatha and flies with F'Lar to Benden Weyr for the hatching.    Eventually thread begins to fall and the Lord Holders learn first-hand why they must pay duty to the dragonriders.  Suddenly, old teaching songs and other records are in great demand and the Master Harper, Robinton, finds his craft's services are urgently needed.    This novel is soft science fiction, bordering on fantasy, but \\"Weyr Search\\" was first debuted in Analog.  The rationale that allows dragons to fly and breath fire is rather slim, but psionic talents have been admitted to the canon on a speculative basis.  Aside from these two issues, the Pern series is a fairly standard story of space pioneers who lose most of their technology due to a disaster.  The details are mostly borrowed from the middle ages, but with certain modern concepts retained by the Harpers, who are teachers and philosophers in addition to their function as entertainers.    This novel is considered a modern classic in the SF community.  \\"Weyr Search\\" created an unusual amount of interest among the rather prosaic Analog readership and the sequels have continued to gain popularity.  I was among those who read the original Analog stories and have continued to enjoy the author's works.  While the plots are rather simple, the character development is first class.  Although very prolific, the author is an exemplary craftsperson who never fails to write a satisfying story.    Highly recommended to McCaffrey fans and anyone who enjoys exotic societies, intelligent animals, and political intrigue in a SF setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-04-14
1159530:US	49390985	R2KABIQ8VVWKCQ	0441009115	619726957	Local Custom	Books	5	24	25	N	N	A Comedy of Manners	Local Custom (2000) is the first novel chronologically in the Liaden series, but the fourth novel published.  Er Thom yos'Galan is caught in a emotional and moral bind:  Liaden law requires him to provide children to the clan, yet he is infatuated with a Terran woman that he had meet several years before on Proziski.  After a whirlwind affair, the two had parted, with Er Thom returning to his ship and trade route.    Now that his clan has demanded his child, Er Thom finds himself unable to become interested in any other woman.  In a spirit of desperation, he borrows a ship from his foster brother and tracks down Anne Davis at her university.  Their affair resumes immediately, as if no time has passed, but then Anne introduces Er Thom to their son, Shan yos'Galan.  Suddenly their love affair runs afoul of a difference in customs.  To Er Thom, the boy is a child of Clan Korval and Line yos'Galen and must be presented to the delm and thodelm to be accepted into the clan and line.  Anne doesn't see him quite that way, but rather as her child, with Er Thom only the sperm donor.  She refuses his offer of a contract marriage, seeing it as only another temporary fling.    This novel has elements of a comedy of manners, with misunderstandings occurring in all parties and with a few bitter feeling stirring the mix.  However, such communication failures still occur in daily life even between close associates and still more often between different cultures on this planet.  Nevertheless, the lovers struggle so hard against their misconceptions and freely open themselves to embarrassment with a spirit of trust, but are temporarily derailed by the thodelm.    This novel is a witty demonstration that etiquette -- i.e., manners -- is not universal.  \\"When in Rome, do as the Romans do\\" is an ancient adage that will probably still be true when the Sun dies of old age.  Proper behavior is relative to the culture, depending upon customs, mores, folkways and traditions, yet people oftenassume that their own, local etiquette applies in every situation and place.    This novel also points out that etiquette exists only to facilitate interpersonal relationships and that foolish insistence on rigid formalism can destroy rather than nurture such relationships.    In many respects, this tale summarizes the theme of the whole series:  societies grow only when they continue to diversify and expand their horizons.  Er Thom and Anne add a breath of new life to a complacent and ossified Liaden society.  Indeed a comedy, but also an epiphany.    Recommended for Lee & Miller fans and anyone who enjoys exotic cultures with a touch of mystery, farce and romance in a SF setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-04-14
1159658:US	49390985	R17FGW16D8VBD9	044101013X	578065247	Angelica	Books	5	3	5	N	N	An Angelica For Her Time	Angelica is the fourth novel written in the Samaria series.  However, the events and artifacts in this novel indicate that it is a prequel to the Archangel trilogy.  According to conversations herein, Samaria was settled only 240 years prior to these events.  While the society is already seeing the voyage in mythical terms, some of technology is still in everyday use, including the music reproducers in the Eyrie.  Semorrah is not yet fully built and Windy Point is still occupied.    In this novel, Gabriel Aaron, nicknamed Gaaron, is the Archangel-elect.  He visits the Oracle Mahalah at Mount Sinai to determine who will be his angelica and Jovah responds with a handful of names, one of which surprises him:  Susannah sia Tachita, an Edori.  Gaaron knows little about the Edori, but he determines to search for Susannah as soon as possible.    Susannah loves Dathan, a man of the Lohora tribe, who is very handsome, but delights in flirting with women and drinking a little too much wine every now and then.  Everyone forgives Dathan his irresponsible ways since that is just the way he is, but Susannah is becoming a bit angry at his womanizing and lies.  One day the Lohora come upon the Tachita tribe and mingle their tents for a few days.  Susannah is happy to visit her family again, but angry that Dathan is spending time with Corzi of the Tachitas.  On the night that the Angel Gaaron visits their camp, Susannah quarrels with Dathan about his infidelity and the next morning she leaves with Gaaron for the Eyrie.    Even after finding Susannah, Gaaron has some ongoing problems.  One is his sister, Miriam, who is pretty, impulsive, and rebellious and has been a continuing problem since her childhood.  The other, however, is a recent series of unusual occurrences involving black men and circles of fiery death.      Gaaron has many advisors in his role of leader of the host at Eyrie, but only a few people that he can consult on the larger problems.  When Adriel retires as Archangel and Gaaron assumes that role, he will have no peers to consult.  Susannah, however, provides him with good advice without a personal agenda and she also has a magnificent alto voice that supports rather than overwhelms other singers, so Gaaron is well pleased with Jovah's choice of his angelica.  However, he too has been damaged by his father and, like Miriam, has problems with personal relationships.    This novel is almost totally about relationships.  Although there is a central mystery in the plot, the author provides enough clues that the solution is almost an anticlimax.  The real surprise is the final confrontation between Susannah and Gaaron;  Gaaron thinks that he is the stubborn one.    While this novel fills in the backstory of the Archangel trilogy, it is a fully developed story that stands on its own.  Gaaron is a good angel, but has trouble expressing his own feelings, so is greatly misunderstood by everyone, including his own sister.  Susannah gets him to open up and start sharing his feelings with others, particularly Miriam, who needs to know that he really cares and that she really contributes to the community.      This novel definitely deserves a sequel.  While the mystery is solved and the Trilogy addresses the far future, there are a number of aspects of Gaaron's society that have not been addressed and there are the several unresolved interpersonal relationships between the main characters.  One would hope that the author continues to mine this rich vein with other novels.    Recommended for Shinn fans and anyone who enjoys a well-crafted exotic society and mysterious happenings in a SF setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-04-14
1162047:US	49390985	R18UG9L3SQE3EF	0886776376	252894133	Foreigner	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Man For His TImes	Foreigner (1994) is the first novel in the Foreigner series.  The starship Phoenix set out to build a space station at a G5 star designated T-230, but she suffered a point error and then the pilot aborted the jump.  The Phoenix was thoroughly and totally lost, though the crew searched for a match to any known navigation markers for some time.<br /><br />After accepting that they were lost, the ship is moved to a nearby star for re-fueling, despite its heavy ambient radiation, and then jumped to a relatively close G5.  This sun had an inhabited planet, so they built a space station in orbit around it and left the passengers in the station to study the planet while the ship searched for a way home.<br /><br />A hundred and fifty years after building the station, the Pilot's Guild wanted the passengers to re-embark and travel to other systems, building re-fueling stations for the ship.  However, the passengers refused to leave with the ship and started sending their people down in disposable atmospheric entry capsules, with the understanding that one or more shuttles would be built later to recover them.  Once onplanet, the passengers made contact with the natives, the atevi. Eventually the ship flew away and did not return for centuries, so the remaining passengers abandoned the station and dropped down to the planet.<br /><br />Another hundred and fifty years later, friction between the Humans and the natives led to war.  The Humans were greatly outnumbered and had little resources, hence they lost and were forcibly re-located to the island of Mosphreira.<br /><br />In the ensuing years, a tradition has developed of using a single human --  the paidhi, an interpreter -- as the principal contact between the Humans and the atevi.  While low level interfaces have been established for day to day affairs, all high level, policy making contacts go through the paidhi.  Thus, the paidhi has developed a degree of internal power within the Mospheiran government, but has also gained a responsibility to the ajii -- i.e., head -- of the Western Association, the major atevi political unit.<br /><br />In this novel, two centuries after the war, Bren Cameron is the current paidhi.  Strange things have begun to occur in his professional life.  The current ajii, Tabini, has provided him with a pistol, which is contrary to normal practice, and he has kept it under his mattress.  Then, one night, someone slips into his darkened room and Bren shots at the figure, twice.  Apparently he hits something, for there is blood, but the person gets away.<br /><br />Normally the paidhi is exempt from assassination and the Assassins' Guild will not accept a filing on him, but several of the ajii's best assassins have been assigned to protect him from lunatics and other irresponsible persons.  Now, the ajii files intent on unknown persons who have tried to assassinate the paidhi, serving notice that he will fight to protect the paidhi.<br /><br />While the investigation is ongoing, Tabini sends Bren to Malguri, the estate where his grandmother, the ajii-dowager, resides.  Although Bren is rather afraid of the old lady, he has no other feasible alternative.  The residence there is an old fortress, with antiquated facilities.<br /><br />The electrical wiring is laid over the walls and the plumbing is abominable.  Moreover, though the ajii-dowager, Ilisidi, rather likes him, the tea is still poison to his system.  When he recovers, Cenedi, the ajii-dowager's personal assassin, apologizes for not knowing that the tea would effect him so and warns him away from that type of tea.<br /><br />The ajii-dowager sends her personal physician to see to his health.  The cook is very disturbed at his reaction to the tea.  Everybody treats him as an invalid and the ajii-dowager then invites him to breakfast.  What to do?<br /><br />If you haven't discovered by now that Bren Cameron is outside of his comfort zone, you obviously have not read much of the author's works.  She seems to specialize in confused protagonists -- and confused readers as well -- but manages to bring it all together at the end of the book, although the confusion will resume with the sequel. This portrayal of an alien society, and a Human one influenced by it, is rapidly becoming a classic of its kind.<br /><br />Note that the Assassins form an Guild that has physical and moral power among the atevi.  As in Piper's Paratime story, The Last Enemy, the Assassins are the power of last resort, reserving the right to refuse contracts that, in their opinion, will harm the society or even to work on their own against enemies of society.  Any person who uses these Assassins, therefore, must be prudent in their contracts in order to avoid tempting this Association into fully asserting their power.  Thus, the Assassins are a force for moderation, if not stability.<br /><br />Bren survives assassins and atevi cooking.  The next installment in this sequence is [[ASIN:0886776872 Invader]].<br /><br />Recommended for Cherryh fans and anyone who enjoys aliens with real differences and the struggle of humans to understand them.  Read and enjoy!<br /><br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2003-04-11
1164049:US	49390985	R1A9CLKX9WLPX5	0756401399	67589578	Hidden in Sight (Web Shifters #3)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A Fishy Attack	Hidden in Sight is the third novel in the Web Shifters series, following Changing Vision.  In the previous volume, Janet Chase has exposed her predatory intentions and has fled Minas XII.  Her co-conspirator, Inspector Logan, is unwise enough to come to Minas XII and learns not to betray a Herd of Ganthor.  Rudy Lefebvre has left the Russell III and is contemplating a new future.  Project Leader Kearn has been slipped a tip by the Esen Monster and is horrified, confused and gratified.  The Kraal have not learned the secret of Web-being flight.  Esen has met a new Group of friends and she resumes her life with Paul on Minas XII.    In this novel, Picco's Moon has been invaded by someone who is mining Ersh's mountain and killing Tumblers.  The disappearance of a Tumbler is reported and this information is forwarded to data collection equipment at Cameron & Ki Exports.  Paul and Esen book passage to Picco's Moon on the Largas ship, Vegas Lass, but another passenger, Hom Wolla, has disappeared in the Dump, delaying the departure.  Paul goes to the Dump to fetch the passenger, but doesn't return or communicate in two hours, so Esen goes after both of them.  When she enters the bar, a Herd of Ganthor enters behind her and another Herd is before her with a drugged youngster who has been stolen from the other herd;  the negotiations between the Herds escalates into a firefight.  Then heavily armed and armored troopers enter the bar searching for something and both Herds turn against the newcomers.  Esen loses sight of Paul and Wolla, but manages to escape through the lava tunnels to relative safety just before the firefight blows off the roof.    Esen flees to the safety of her home and finds a crater instead;  someone has blown up her house.  She then flees to the greenhouse over their warehouse and finds Joel Largas there.  Paul also appears, but is followed by heavily armed and armored troops.  When they fire at Paul, Esen shifts to her Web-form, dumping energy in an explosion.  The troopers are gone and Paul is dazed, but otherwise fine.  Joel, however, has just met his worst nightmare, a Web-being like Death, and has gone into shock.  Paul and Esen sedate him and take him home, then book passage on the first starship leaving Minas XII.  Esen has shifted to her Oieta form, something like a giant shrimp, and Paul is also disguised as an Oieta, but has a reaction to the fluid within the suit and removes it.  Esen, however, has another problem with her suit:  an excess of aldehydes has caused her Oieta-self to become intoxicated, literally poisoned, but still a blissful experience;  in other words, Esen is spaced out.      After Paul adjusts her suit controls, the voyage passes quickly and uneventfully.  They arrive on Prumbinat and take a Busfish out to the underwater resort.  There they learn that the attacks were designed to flush them out and separate them from their allies and they discover the identity of the instigator of these attacks.    Paul Lefebvre is eavesdropping on Michael Cristoffen, assistant to Project Leader Kearn, and witnesses an attack on the Human by Zoltan Duda, a member of Paul's Group, which is reflected back on the attacker by a Kraal anti-assassin shield, killing Duda.  Rudy is certain that the death is intentional and so does Project Leader Kearn when he learns of it.  Both are also convinced that Cristoffen is receiving guidance from a Kraal source.    This novel is as fast paced as the previous two, but is still mostly about the evolving relationship between Paul and Esen.  It has some of the same minor themes, including the Tumbler tendancy to compose, by committee, 500 page messages that no one understands.  I am almost certain that the Rand species, a communal intelligence, is a joke and maybe the Cin communal intelligence is another.  There is also more about the architectural philosophy of Mixs.    Recommended for Czerneda fans and anyone who enjoys zany adventures with likable persons within a SFsetting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-04-10
1165980:US	49390985	R34EEBQD41D79Z	0671578871	327899805	Sentry Peak	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Rising Rock Campaign	Sentry Peak (2000) is the first novel in the War Between the Provinces series, a fantastic tale of a civil war fought over the abolition of serfdom, embellished with abundant puns.  King Avram wants to free the blonde serfs, but the agricultural northern provinces need plentiful labor to sow, weed, and pick the crops and don't want to pay them wages.  On the other hand, the industrial southern provinces need trained workers to operate the machinery and has more ready cash to pay wages.  Grand Duke Geoffrey leads a secession of the northern provinces from the kingdom and the southern provinces strike back to quell the rebellion.<br /><br />The war has dragged on for four years and King Avram has continually pushed his generals for a final resolution of the conflict.  Eventually his generals gain the offensive and drive Duke Edward of Arlington back into Parthenia.  The eastern front has gone somewhat better, with the southern army taking Ramberton and Luxor early in the war.  Now they are advancing upon Rising Rock in Northwestern Franklin.<br /><br />In this novel, the southern army under General Guildenstern has forded the River and converged on Rising Rock from three directions at once.  The southern forces outnumber the Army of the Franklin about eight to five, so General Thraxton the Braggart falls back to Fa Layette and waits for Earl Broadpath to bring reinforcements from the Army of Southern Parthenia.  General Guildenstern selects a fine hotel in Rising Rock as his headquarters and then he waits also.<br /><br />When Lieutenant General Doubting George, his second in command, insists that Thraxton should be pursued immediately, Guildenstern gives him command of half his army with orders to perform such a pursuit.  After a day or two, the rest of the army will follow.  As the force marches north from Rising Rock, Ned the Forest's cavalry ambushes his vanguard.  When this is reported to General Guildenstern, he splits his forces into two columns paralleling George's path and they pursue Ned of the Forest to the River of Death.<br /><br />As can be seen by this synopsis, the author follows the events in the  Chattanooga campaign quite closely.  The novel goes on through the battles of Chickamauga, Missionary Ridge and Lookout Mountain.  Since the real place names are usually based on the Indian names, these geographical features are often translated into English equivalents, but the personal names are puns of every sort.  For example, Bart is the pseudonym for Ulysses Simpson Grant and Hesmucet is the pseudonym for William Tecumseh Sherman.<br /><br />Even the personalities are fairly accurate, with some poetic license and a lot of puns.  Characters are introduced to portray the war from the point of view of the enlisted men, noncoms, and officers at all levels;  to what extent such characters are based on historic persons is known only to the author, but there is a great deal of personal information available, for more letters, diaries and other first hand accounts of this war have been archived and made available to academic researchers, and even the general public, than for any previous American war.<br /><br />It helps a lot to keep a single volume history of the war on hand while reading this book.  However, my one criticism of the novel has nothing to do with the various changes, for they are trivial, but the front cover has a blonde haired unicorn rider sticking a snake-like creature with what looks like a skewer -- snake-ka-bob? -- when the story quite specifically says all blondes are former serfs.  All the cavalry would be brown-headed, not blonde.  If this series really parallels the Civil War, blondes would not be cavalrymen until after the war.  Artists!!!!  Don't they ever read the book?<br /><br />Like his novels based on How Few Remain, the author attacks racial stereotypes with a vengeance, pulling them out one by one and then flaying them with the facts.  Nor does he spare regional prejudices and other forms of bigotry.  Ned the Forest, for example, was one of the best commanders in the South, even compared to the famous Jeb Stuart, but he was not a gentleman and thus was given little respect.<br /><br />In many respects, this novel is a bitter satire of the Civil War era, taking on folly wherever it might be found.  Such an anachronistic approach is not very objective, and certainly not recommended in a scholarly tome, but does point out quite clearly the various flaws of our ancestors.  The only men who compare favorably to modern standards are Bedford Forrest and William Sherman, for both had not a trace of romanticism in their worldview.<br /><br />Recommended to Turtledove fans and anyone who thrives on word puzzles, has -- or wants to have -- some knowledge of the Civil War, and enjoys fantasy tales based on real history with a twist.<br /><br />-Arthur W. Jordinne of the best commanders in the South, even compared to the famous Jeb Stuart, but he was not a gentleman and thus was given little respect.    In many respects, this novel is a bitter satire of the Civil War era, taking on folly wherever it might be found.  Such an anachronistic approach is not very objective, and certainly not recommended in a scholarly tome, but does point out quite clearly the various flaws of our ancestors.  The only men who compare favorably to modern standards are Bedford Forrest and William Sherman, for both had not a trace of romanticism in their worldview.    Recommended to Turtledove fans and anyone who thrives on word puzzles, has -- or wants to have -- some knowledge of the Civil War, and enjoys fantasy tales based on real history with a twist.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-04-08
1168592:US	49390985	R1QENCIQPDYCE0	0451450078	856122782	Rally Cry (Lost Regiment, Book 1)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Another War of Liberation	Rally Cry (1990) is the first Alternate History novel in The Lost Regiment series.  The 35th Maine infantry regiment has had a glorious history, the first to receive the Congressional Medal of Honor as a unit for their stubborn resistance to Confederate forces at Gettysburg.  Now, they and the 44th New York Light Artillery board the transport Ogunquit to participate in an amphibious assault, but sail a day behind the other ships of the flotilla.  The Ogunquit is caught in a storm, flounders in high waves, is sucked into a funnel of blinding light, and is then dropped elsewhere.  In our timeline, neither the ship nor any of those onboard are ever seen again.    In this novel,  Colonel Andrew Keane, commander of the regiment, awakes to find the ship aground, all masts down, and bodies and gear littering the deck.  Sergeant Major Hans Schuder reports that two men have been killed and the other 600 are puking their guts out.  Miss Kathleen O'Reilly, a nurse from the Christian Sanitation Commission, avows that she will never set foot on a ship again, then goes below to assist Doctor Emil Weiss, the regimental physician, in treating the injured.  One of the privates reports a horseman on the shore and Keane uses his field glasses to discover that the rider has a long beard, a conical iron helmet and a long spear;  he is wearing a dirty white tunic that buttons up one side and has rags on his feet.    When the horseman leaves, Keane gets his men and artillery ashore and dug in against a possible attack.  However, the Captain of the Ogunquit, Tobias Cromwell, calls him back aboard and up the rigging to the shattered maintop, giving Keane a view of the land beyond the nearest hills.  Thousands of men are swarming towards them, lead by a mounted contingent carrying square banners portraying various symbols.  Some of the horsemen are wearing rough plate armor and are clustered around a portly, bearded man wearing gold-embossed armor.  The infantry looks like true medieval levies, with an insane assortment of spears, swords, clubs and pitchforks.    After the stranger arrive, they form up in a line, two priests walk down the line with censors smoking, and the strangers each cross themselves...backwards.  An emissary comes forward to ask for their surrender, but Keane cannot understand the language, except for the term \\"boyar\\".  When the strangers charge, some of the 35th fire a volley of blank charges and the two artillery pieces fire over the their heads.  At that point, the strangers leave the field rapidly, but soon some return with their catapults and attack the ship.  Keane has Major Pat O'Donald, commander of the 44th New York, target the catapults and the strangers leave the field in a wild stampede.    Then the regiment sees two moons in the sky.  Amidst all the excitement that this causes, another emissary approaches the camp carrying a torch and is taken to the colonel.  Kalencka is a peasant, the bard of the boyar, and has been sent to gather information on the bluecoats.  After a swig of Emil's gin,  Kal is eager to participate in language lessons.  After three days, he is sent back with a gift of spectacles for his boyar, Ivor of the Weak-Eyes, and a flask of whiskey for himself.  Reporting back to his boyar, Kal urges his boyar to form an alliance with the bluecoats, realizing that he has job security as long as no one else can speak with them.  He even convinces the boyar to let him, and him alone, live among the bluecoats as his permanent spy.    Soon Keane, with his escort, are invited to a huge banquet involving numerous toasts. The next morning, they awake with terrific hangovers, but Kal has the perfect cure.  Then they begin negotiations with Ivor, but are interrupted by an attack led by Mikhail, Ivor's half brother, who has been incited to rebel against the boyar by Rasnar, the local patriarch, but Mikhail has not reckoned on the firepower of Keane's escort and is driven away.  Impressed by this power, Ivor providesKeane with a grant of land to build an encampment and a steady supply of food, in return for protection against Mikhail.      The regiment is now essentially independent of the Suzdal Rus, the local people, but there are other Rus boyars.  And then there are the Tugar horde, aliens who are the masters of all the Rus and who, although scheduled to arrive in four years, are coming earlier.    This novel introduces an alternate world which has been ruled by an alien race who traverse fixed routes around the world, harvesting humans as cattle.  The Tugar is only one of several hordes and the Rus is only one of many human groups who have come through the gates of light to leave descendents upon this world.  The regiment is faced with a monumental task, but the 35th Maine has fought tougher enemies and survived.    This novel is alternate world SF much like Turtledove's Misplaced Legion.  The 35th Maine is a historical reality, credited for saving the Union forces at Gettysburg and lost at sea a few months later.  The author is a historian and Civil War reenactor, so the historical details of the regiment are as accurate as they can be.  The Rus are also true to their ancestry, medieval Russians, but their presence on the alternate world is not attributed to any historical event.    Recommended for anyone who enjoys civil war history and alternate world wars.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-04-06
1169845:US	49390985	R33YB6PEQJKRWZ	0839826354	733109782	Storm over Warlock (The Gregg Press Science Fiction Series)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	The Power of Perseverance	Storm Over Warlock is the first novel in the Warlock series.  Warlock is the second planet in the Circe system.  First scouted four years previously, a Terran Survey Corps team has been sent to prepare the planet for the coming of the first pioneers.    In this novel, Shann Lantee has joined the Survey team as contract labor from the Dumps of Tyr, performing the dirty, tedious clean-up jobs and the dull maintenance routines.  Yet one of these jobs is the care and feeding of the mutant wolverines, which soon becomes  an act of friendship rather than a chore.  While the wolverines return this friendship, they are mischievous and cunning, enjoying an occasional outing without formal permission.  During one such escape, Shann and the wolverines witness the Tharg attack that overruns the camp.  As the only known survivors, Shann immediately increases the distance between themselves and the camp.    As they travel, Shann comes across a downed Terran scoutship being harried by Tharg flyers, but the Tharg weapons set off an explosion that destroys one of the Tharg vessels and drives the other Tharg flyer from the scene.  Shann investigates the crashed flyer and is fired on and pinned down by a survivor, but then a rock smashes the Tharg's head from above, thrown by Ragnar Thorvald, leader of the Survey team.  Thorvald has been off-world on Survey business and was returning for the arrival of the settler ship, but their hail of the camp was not answered except by the Tharg flyers.  The scoutship had been damaged during the fight and the pilot killed, so Thorvald sets an explosive surprise for the Tharg and abandons ship.    When Thorvald recognizes Shann, he immediately asks about the camp and receives little good news.  However, he realizes that the Tharg have probably left many Survey items within the camp, since they are no use to the aliens, and then conceives a plan to raid the camp disguised as natives, thereby concealing the presence of Terran survivors.  Thorvald andShann prepare primitive tools and weapons for the attack to add authenticity to the subterfuge.  They use bolos, fireballs, stink bombs and spears to kill a few Thargs and create a diversion while Thorvald gathers items from the camp, then they escape on a raft.    Thorvald has noted a \\"hound\\" within the camp and suspects trouble.  Later, they discover that the alien animal is following their trail and that they can neither evade it nor even kill it with any weapon at their disposal.    In the journey downriver, Thorvald finally admits to Shann why they are heading toward the sea.  Thorvald possesses a curious bone-like medallion with hypnotic carvings that has been found on a sea island beach.  The object was very unlikely to be Tharg work, so possibly Warlock holds, or once held, a native race living somewhere near the sea.  When Thorvald allows a few drops of water to fall on the object in his hand, he looks dazed and acts like he is mind-controlled.    As they float downriver, both Thorvald and Shann have weird dreams about skull mounts and veiled caverns.  The first-in scout also had such dreams, which sometimes coincided with an \\"emanation\\" registering on certain instruments.  They speculate that the river water may have conducted the dreams to them from the sea.    When they reach the sea, the dreams are even stronger.  Thorvald is now obsessed with finding the things or persons who are projecting the dream.  Then Thorvald apparently succumbs to the lure of these dreams, paddling their canoe away while Shann is asleep on the beach.  Shann tries to build another craft, but destroys it later as he sleeps.  The dreamers seemly want to remain unfound.    This novel has the signature characteristics of early Norton stories:  a courageous young person coping with adversity on his own, with aliens and animals as well as telepathy and other psionic powers.  It also displays another signature personality trait:  perseverance to the point of obstinacy.    Storm Over Warlock is recommended for all Andre Norton fans and anyone who likes stories about young people, friendly animals, and even somewhat friendly aliens, successfully coping with a hostile environment and even more hostile sentients.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-04-05
1170257:US	49390985	R3TCJJR8LUZLIE	0449236463	459782067	Star Guard (Central Control, Bk. 2)	Books	5	27	27	N	N	To Guard the Stars	Star Guard (1955) is the second novel in the Central Control series, but the first in internal chronology.  When Terrans learned to travel the space lanes, Central Control assigned them to a special role that suited their aggressive temperament and also provided a safety valve for all other belligerents among the great confederacy.  The Terrans became the mercenaries of the Galaxy.  Arch Hordes served on the relatively primitive worlds and Mech Legions served on the relatively advanced worlds.  However, even the Mechs weapons were less advanced than those available to the Galactic Patrol.  Three hundred years passed before any challenge arose to this system.    In this novel, Kana Karr, newly graduated Arch Swordsman Third Class, comes to Prime to receive his first assignment.  Waiting in the hiring hall, he hears rumors of lost legions and refused assignments.  Then, a senior Combatant, accompanied by a Galactic Agent, announces that the troubles on Nevers have been fully investigated, with the assistance of Central Control, and certified that the defeat there was due to local problems and that the rumors concerning this episode are not to be repeated by any of the Corps.  Naturally, this stirs up even more rumors.    Shortly thereafter, Karr is offered a position with Yorke's Horde and accepts the assignment.  He is told to report to Dock Five at seventeen hours, so he goes to the transients' mess to eat.  While there, he hears still more rumors.  Then he goes to an information booth to learn the languages of Fronn, the planet where he is to serve, as well as any other facts available.  When he returns the record-pak, he notices that a Mech scoops it up before the return belt can load it back into the machine.    On the journey to Fronn, he bunks with Trig Hansu, a very experienced Swordtan.  In fact, all the men headed to Yorke's Horde, except himself, are very experienced and, when they reach Secundus, he only finds two other S-Threes in the Horde.  Although most of the man seem to be amiable, the other S-Threes warn him to avoid Zapan Bogate.  However, when they reach Fronn, Bogate and one of his buddies, Sim, decides to crowd Karr a little.  When Karr chops a clutching hand, Sim slaps him in formal challenge.  Karr, however, has the choice of weapons and chooses bat sticks.  Although Sim proves to be an expert swordsman, he is confused by the relative lightness of the stick.  Furthermore, he uses it as a rapier, but Karr waits until he can draw it across Sim's forearm, so that the pain forces Sim to drop the stick, thereby conceding the duel.  Of course, Sim is furious, but the other veterans rather respect Karr for using his knowledge of the planet in this manner.    After a week of intensive drill to shake out any lingering effects of the space travel, they move out with their employer.  As Karr is marching on point, they overtake a caravan of Venturi and he notices that one of the figures walks differently.  His team reports his suspicions and keeps the caravan under observation until a troop of Llor cavalry flushes the suspicious wayfarer from the caravan, straight toward them.  The troopers lasso the fugitive, but he sits up and fires a flamer at them.  Immediately, the Combatants fire at the shooter.  The robed figure proves to be a Llor, who had no business possessing a flamer, which are reserved for the Patrol.  After seven Fronn days, they meet the forces of the enemy and are called to parlay, but the enemy ambush their employer and capture his men.  When the Combatants talk to the enemy leader, they are told that the Terran way does not apply to Fronn.      Now that their employer is dead, they head to an auxiliary starport in the hills to get off world.  The port is Venturi, but these natives soon leave to go back to their islands, leaving the building to the Terrans.  They are forced indoors by a cariolis storm, but find an unusual sight after the storm:  a wrecked crawler with a Vegan onboard and boxes of flamers as cargo.  Then they find a downed Patrol ship in a rocky valley with bodies in Patrol uniforms laid out as for inspection.    This novel is an early Norton SF work.  It has some of the signature images, including the Zacathans who crop up everywhere in the authors SF.  However, in many ways it more resembles The Stars Are Ours, with Central Control as the repressive force.  Nevertheless, it ends on a note of hope.    Recommended for Norton fans and anyone who enjoys alien planets and peoples as well as competent young people coping with disaster.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-04-04
1170631:US	49390985	RRQLLY2OQ9WPS	0839824211	14047076	The Time Traders	Books	5	6	10	N	N	A Man Out of Time	The Time Traders (1958) is the first novel in the Time Traders series.  In this original version, Ross Murdock is a young man with a bad record.  While in detention, he is subjected to a series of psychological tests and, when called back into the courtroom for sentencing, he is offered a chance to volunteer for an unidentified government project as an alternative to Rehabilitation.      Ross chooses to volunteer and is turned over to someone called Major.  He plans to run at the first opportunity, but the Major takes him up to the roof of the building where they are picked up by a helicopter.  They land on an airfield, change to flying suits, and leave in a sleek flying machine that departs straight up.  By the time that they reach their destination, Ross has learned that the Major is named Kelgarries, but has no idea where they are, except that it is thoroughly covered in snow.    Within the base, Ross is subjected to a series of tests, including a full day of physical examination.  The rest of the time he spends in a cell-like room by himself on a very comfortable bunk.  After the speaker in his room brays an announcement in the Major's voice, Ross is startled to see the opposite wall disappear, revealing an outdoor scene with mountains and fir trees, the scent of pine trees, and the moaning of the wind.    He hears a wolf howl, senses gray shadows in the trees, and sees a wolf come toward him, hears it growl and then sees it crouches down to leap.  A bow twangs and the animal leaps into the air, then falls and bites at an arrow in its side.  By this time, Ross has the blanket wrapped around his arm and is crouched down himself, waiting for the wolf's leap.  Puzzled, he carefully walks to where the wall had been and discovered an unseen but solid surface at that location.  He assumes that something new in image viewing has been developed and lies down to enjoy the remainder of the show.    Suddenly, all lights go out, leaving him in complete darkness.  He feels his way to the door and finds it open.  As he explores the corridors, he hears something crawling toward him, with frequent pauses and heavy breathing.  Now the lights all come back on, temporarily blinding him, but soon revealing someone wrapped in bandages over his entire body.    Before he can move, Major Kelgarries comes running up and kneels besides the figure, calling him \\"Hardy\\".  The Major reassures Hardy that he is safe and then tells Ross to go to the end room and call a \\"Dr. Farrell\\".  Hardy is carried away by the doctor and two attendants, with the Major walking alongside holding Hardy's hand.  Ross realizes that the project is important and has suspected that it is dangerous;  now he is certain of that danger.    As he is contemplating the group around Hardy, his name is called by a dark stranger who identifies himself as Ashe and says that they have been partnered.  Ashe states that the project is Operation Retrograde and then takes him to mess call.  There Ross discovers ten men, with six being ordinary in appearance;  two of the men, however, were clearly Oriental, with long black mustaches and blue tattoo marks on their foreheads and the back of their hands and the other pair are blond giants with long braids in their hair.    As they enter, another man -- Kurt -- calls to Ashe and asks him if he has heard about Hardy, saying that such injuries could occur to anyone.  Although he is jeered down by the others, Ross notes that Kurt is a potential ally in escaping the base and agrees to meet him later.    From Kurt, Ross learns that the base has a technology that allows \\"taping\\" the characteristic of a person so that they can be traced anywhere.  Kurt says he has a way to beat the taping, but needs a partner to escape.  Ross is somewhat reluctant, so Kurt tells him that the project is sending teams back in time.    When Ross agrees to go with him, they immediately leave the base, wind through the mine fields, and steal a snow cat.  When they reach theirdestination, Ross learns that Kurt is a plant for the Soviets and manages to wrest control from Kurt.  Under the circumstances, he has no choice other than returning to the base.    After his return, Ross is cleared to know more about the project.  It seems that the Soviets have discovered how to travel to the past and somewhen they have found a few superscience gadgets that have led to amazing strides in certain areas.  The US has duplicated the time machine, but still has no idea where the Soviets found the futuristic gadgets, so Operation Retrograde has been formed to search the past for clues.  Ross is slated to join one such team traveling to Stone Age Britain.    This series has changed over the years to adapt to the political upheaval in Russia, but the real enemies in this series has always been the Baldies.  When faced with a superior technology from a group of hostile aliens, the political differences between humans looks less important.  Thus, the cooperation with the Russian time travel project has been almost inevitable by the logic of this series.  It is merely convenient that the real world has, for a change, agreed with the Time Traders plot.    This series has always been more complex than it appears on the surface, for lurking in the background is a vision of the probability multiverse such as found in Crossroads in Time.  Change the past and forever lose your future.  Thus, it raises the issue of how much change is required to spawn a new timeline.    Recommended for Norton fans and anyone who enjoys tales of the past, the present, and the future within a single SF setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-04-04
1172758:US	49390985	R2S48S498S0LIF	0152409505	347836237	Judgment on Janus	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A Victim of the Green Sick	Judgment on Janus is the first novel in the Janus series.  Janus is a frontier planet settled by the Sky Men, whose cash crop is the lattamus bush, which must be planted in a completely bare field.  Thus, the settlers are clearing the native trees for their fields and selling the bark for extra income.  However, there is something sentient, but not human, dwelling in those forests.<br />In this book, Niall Renfro is the son of Free Traders who have lost their ship in a war and have been relocated to the Dipple, the displaced persons zone on Korwar.  His father died with their ship and his mother is dying, probably of heartache from the loss of her husband and ship.  Niall sells himself to the labor recruiters for enough money to let his mother die in a pleasant dream of lost times.  After he gets his mother to drink the drug, he reports to the processing station to be placed in frozen sleep until he reaches Janus.<br />On Janus itself, Niall is sold to Garthmaster Callu Kosburg and taken to the family garth on the Fringe, where he is put to work with a stripping ax.  He is told that sometimes treasures are found in the forests and must be reported immediately to the Garthmaster.  He is also told that those who touch these treasures get the Green Sick and are left in the woods to die.  Soon after, he finds such a treasure and saves part of it in a tree bole.  When the rest of the treasure is found, all the workers are ordered back to the bunkhouse until a Speaker comes and the treasure is battered and blasted into ashes.<br />That night, Niall is called by his dreams to the hiding place of the treasure, but is followed by Sim Tylos, another of the bought laborers, and is threatened with a knife if he doesn't relinquish the treasure.  However, the Garthmaster and his son have been lying in wait for anyone who comes for the treasure.  They take Tylos back for lessoning, but Niall is left in the forest when he is found to have the Green Sick.  Feverish, with strange dreams, Niall crawls to water, drinks, and finds that he is loosing his hair and his skin is turning green.  <br />Soon the fever leaves him, but he is ravenously hungry.  After he feeds, he notices that he recognizes the the puff-pods as fussan, the hunter's friend, and remembers eating them many times.  He also knows that borfund with cubs is feeding down stream, although he can't see them.  Worst, his memories are telling him that he is Ayyar of Iftcan, Lord of Ky-Kyc.  He recognizes that \\"something terrible has happened to him, outside, inside.  He is no longer Niall Renfro.\\"<br />This novel is vintage Andre Norton.  A young person from the Dipple finds a way out and then discovers alien artifacts that lead to strange adventures.  It also involves a symbiotic relationship with an intelligent animal, in this case an alien bird much like an owl.<br />Recommended for Norton fans and anyone who enjoys alien planets, intelligent animals and resourceful young people in a SF setting.	2003-04-02
1172859:US	49390985	R322RWTP7X1U80	0385293054	681141436	So You Want to Be a Wizard (Young Wizards)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Matter of Words	So You Want to Be a Wizard (1983) is the first fantasy novel in the Young Wizards series.  \\"A Wizard's business is to conserve energy -- to keep it from being wasted...even slow down the death of the Universe\\"    In this book, Nita is running from a gang of young female thugs and notices that the local library is still open.  She hides in the children's section while the friendly librarian sends away her pursuers.  As she is reminiscing about the many books that she has read and re-read, her finger is caught by a book that she has never seen before:  So You Want to Be a Wizard.  She takes it home with her.    After reading the introduction, she decides that it can't hurt to take the Wizard's Oath and she might really become a wizard.  Afterwards, she falls asleep and, when she awakes the next day, her name has been added, as a novice, to the list of wizards in her area.  She rushes out to a private spot to find out more and to do the beginning exercises involving really seeing patterns, then discovers that the tree that she is sitting beneath is talking to her.  It is rather upset at wizards at present, since one had been messing up its beautiful collage of leaves.  Nita asks about the other wizard and learns his current location, which is another of her private spots nearby.      When she finds the other wizard, Kit, he calmly accepts her explanation of the damage he has done to the leave and needle collages, agrees to correct the problem, and then explains what he has been trying to do without success.  As he explains, it occurs to him that the missing factor may be her participation and invites her to join him in the spell.    Nita and Kit retire to a bare spot nearby and begin a spell of protection with an additional function for finding a special pen stolen by the young female thugs.  When completed, this spell takes them to another New York, darker and inhabited by something terrifying.  In their efforts to return to their own world, they pull in a white holeto provide extra power.  They call the white hole Fred, since his real name is unpronounceable, and they learn that Fred was looking for an Advisory to report that the Book of Night with Moon is missing.  Nita and Kit look up the local Advisories in their manuals and find that the nearest is Crazy Swale, who lives near their school.      They decide to get Nita's pen back first and Nita corners Joanne and demands her pen back.  This direct approach startles Joanne at first, but then she flourishes the pen in front of Nita and dares her to take it back.  Fred neatly whisks the pen away, leaving Joanne totally freaked out for a second, but then Joanne goes into aggressive mode.  Fortunately, the first bell rings and Joanne postpones her attack until after school.      All is temporarily all right, but then Fred announces that he has swallowed Nita's pen and he gets the hiccups.  Not just any hiccups, for the first hiccup emits a color TV and the next emits four encyclopedia volumes.  After school, Joanne and her gang are waiting, but Fred lures them away by hiccuping a Learjet.  After that, Nita and Fred go directly to Crazy Swale's house.  Fred emits a Mercedes-Benz just as they arrive.    Tom Swale turns out to be a thirty-ish year old man with a sheepdog that finds things and a macaw who tells the future, particularly of pork bellies.  His partner is Carl Romeo.  They check their references and are able to cure Fred's hiccups, but Nita and Kit will have go to Manhattan and use the Grand Central worldgate to recover the pen.    It is obvious from this book that it about the multiverse at a period that wasn't quite used to the concept.  The author doesn't let that slow her down, however, as she blithely discusses more dimensions and universes than a theoretic physicist could come up with in a lifetime.  The author just doesn't write small.    This novel is a fun read and also funny (I haven't even told you about Kit's dog) as well as being stuffed with unusual ideas.The later books in the series get into more serious concepts, but are still fun reads (Kit's dog just keep getting weirder and more likable).  The other members of the Callahan and Rodriguez families get more time on stage and deeper characterization, which is all to the good.    Note: The Book of Night with Moon later written by this author has entirely different contents than the one described in this novel.    Recommended for Duane fans and anyone who enjoys well-crafted fantasy juveniles with innovative concepts.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-04-02
1173388:US	49390985	R3GDPLP1JSO1IV	0812584228	331782180	Obernewtyn (The Obernewtyn Chronicles, Book 1)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Gulag of Misfits	Obernewtyn (1987) is the first SF novel in the Obernewtyn series. Death fell from the skies during the Great White, leaving lingering radiation and chemical destruction over much of the land.  During the Age of Chaos, those fortunate enough to live on untainted land ruthlessly slaughtered refugees who poured from the cities.  Thereafter, mutations among men and beast were frequent, so the Council decreed that any who born with abnormalities were to be burned.    The Herder Faction, a fledging religious order who worshipped Lud, were appointed to perform the burnings.  Gradually the law and dogma fused to condemn all technology other than simple farm implements.  Later the Herder Faction announced that some mental aberrations did not show at birth, but manifested later.  These mutants were called Misfits.    In this novel, Elspeth Gordie is a Misfit who has been raised in orphanages following the execution of her parents for Sedition.  Now she and her brother, Jes, are residents of the Kinraide orphan home.  Jes has just become a Herder assistant and wants to advance in the Herder Faction, but this career would be ruined if she is accused of being a Misfit.  She cannot have any friends, due to the danger to herself and them, except Maruman, the mutant cat.    Maruman has visions, once telling her that the mountains will call for her.  Another time he confessed that a Guanette bird had told him that his destiny was twinned with hers.  For the rest of the time he was haughty, conceited, full of opinions about everything.  Maruman was instrumental in discovering the extent of her telepathic powers;  one day she scared away a bird that Maruman was stalking and Maruman said a rude comment into her mind and she responded in kind.  Every since then, she has been bonded with Maruman.    Maruman predicted that a \\"darkOne\\" would come from the mountains seeking her.  Elspeth knew the mountains meant Obernewtyn, the most remote work farm.  An ancient institution in the Western Mountains, Obernewtyn accepted only the worst afflicted of the Misfits and those Misfits sent there were never heard of again.  The Obernewtyn keeper arrived three days later.    Madame Vega detects some small part of Elspeth's ability, but that is enough to send her to Obernewtyn.  There she meets other Misfits, the working staff, and the supervising triumvirate:  Alexi, Ariel, and Madame Vega.  Later, she meets the nominal director, Doctor Seraphim.    This post-apocalyptic novel is much like [[ASIN:0441784356 The Stars Are Ours]] in several respects, including theocratic restrictions by the government and underground resistance to those repressions.  Moreover, there is the element of hope at the end.  Subsequent volumes in this series further develop the mental powers aspect as well as the the role of the mutated animals.    Recommended for Norton fans and anyone who enjoys a well-crafted novel of suspense and adventure in a SF setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-04-02
1173813:US	49390985	R1943JWGQ5HL1U	0312874421	497999311	The Usurper's Crown: A Novel of Isavalta	Books	5	9	11	N	N	An Isavaltan History	The Usurper's Crown is the second novel written in the Isavalta series, following A Sorcerer's Treason, but is the first in internal order.  In the previous volume, Bridget Lederle is a lighthouse keeper on Sand Island on the shore of Lake Superior in 1899.  Her father and her love-child have died, she has never know her mother, and she is estranged from her aunt.  Moreover, she has been accused of her infant daughter's death and shunned by most of the town of Bayfield.  Then she rescues a stranger from drowning and he convinces her to return to Isavalta with him.<br />In this novel, Ingrid Loftfield follows her sister Grace to a meeting with a drowned man's ghost on the shores of Sand Island in 1872.  When Ingrid separates the ghost from Grace, she is saved from the ghost's wrath only by Avan, a foreigner living on the island as a fisherman.  They return Grace to the family home, facing hostility from Ingrid's father, mother and brother, but later find a way to meet and exchange stories.  Avan is really Avanasy Finorasyn Gorianaiavin, a sorcerer and former tutor of Medeon, a powerful sorceress and the High Princess of Isavalta.  Medeon had fallen in love with Prince Kacha of Hastinapura and had become betrothed to him.  However, Avanasy had found evidence of falsehood in Kacha and warned Medeon, but she believed Kacha, banished Avanasy and married Kacha.  Now he is in exile, but still can perform sorcery with great effort and subsequent extreme weariness, so he struggles to weave a net to overcome the ghost and thus free Grace from its power.<br />Meanwhile, in Isavalta, Medeon's parents, the Emperor and his consort, have died of a mysterious illness and she has become Empress, with Kacha as her consort.  While looking for a cure for his withered hand, Medeon has accidentally discovered Kacha's treachery and then she looks for allies to escape him, among whom are Peshek, Captain of the Imperial House Guards, Bakhar, Keeper of the Imperial Godhouse, and Iakush, LordSorcerer of Isavalta.  Medeon manages to flee to Hung Tse, but Kacha detects Iskush's duplicity and kills him, yet Iskush uses his own death to bring warning to Avanasy.  <br />When Avanasy prepares to leave for Isavalta, Ingrid insists on accompanying him.  On the voyage there, she finds that the touch of the ghost has allowed her to see into the spirit world and to separate her spirit from her body.  She is drawn away from the boat through the Land of Death and Spirit.  She encounters the Vixen along the path, but is allowed to continue to the house of Baba Yaga, where she and Avanasy's spirit confront the witch and refuse the demand to assist in the recovery of something stolen.<br />When Kacha discovers that Medeon has fled, he announces that she is pregnant and in confinement, for it is very difficult for a sorceress to bear a child.  He has replaced all Medeon's loyal maids in waiting and Chekhania, the first among these ladies, is his minion, scripting notes in Medeon's hand to authorize his actions.  Kacha is fairly well pleased that Medeon has fled, but still has the army search for a mad woman who believes she is the empress.<br />This novel is the backstory for A Sorcerer's Treason.  Bridget is Ingrid's daughter by Avanasy and so has great powers.  Another novel, The Firebird's Vengeance, is planned to complete the trilogy.  One would presume that it will be a sequel to this novel.<br />This series takes place along the shores of Lake Superior within our timeline, but also in a mythical world wherein the analogs of Russia, China, and India content for supremacy through force of arms and magic.  With both Isavalta and Hastinapura taking arms against Hung Tse, the Nine Elders summon one of the four great protectors, the Firebird.<br />Recommended for Zettel fans and anyone who enjoys tales of exotic cultures, political intrigue, and unusual magic.	2003-04-01
1174028:US	49390985	R1XKKRYAEQYHGU	0553379844	272365831	The Jackal of Nar, Book One of Tyrants and Kings	Books	5	3	8	N	N	An Unjust War	The Jackal of Nar is the first novel in the Tyrants and Kings trilogy.  Emperor Arkus of Nar has sent troops to back the Daegog of Lucel-Lor, hereditary leader of the Triin, against the rebel Drol religionists.  The rebellion is led by Tharn, a cunning-man of Drol, who has been touched by heaven -- i.e., gifted with strange powers -- and tortured by the Daegog for his opposition.  The Daegog is a cowardly, spoiled man who is furious that the Drol have driven him from his beloved home, Falindar, and takes out his anger on his Naren and Triin allies alike.    In this novel, Prince Richius Vantran of Aramoor commands the troops in Dring valley fighting the Drol.  They are being hard pressed by the enemy when horsemen from Talistan come to their rescue.  Richius has mixed feelings, since Talistan and Aramoor have been long-standing enemies and the Talistan leader, Baron Gayle, is a mental and physical brute.  After his men have cleaned out the remnants of Drol troops in their area, Richius follows behind Gayle to warn them once again of ambushes, but finds the Talistan troops burning and looting a Triin farming village.  Furious, Richius searches for Gayle and finds him in the midst of raping a Triin woman.  After defending the woman from Gayle, and then Gayle from the woman, he orders Gayle and his troops out of the valley.    The Triin woman, Dyana, has come to Dring Valley to hide from Tharn, who was betrothed to her in their childhood and who now insists on consummating the marriage.  Since Dyana's father took back his promise when Tharn joined the Drol, Tharn had him beheaded.  After the raid on the village, and the attempted rape, Dyana is shunned by her uncle and other villagers and she accompanies a group of villagers to Ackle-Nye, where she meets Richius once again.    While in Ackle-Nye, Richius finds Duke of War Edgard of Aramoor and his men have quit the campaign and are returning to Aramoor.  The Duke's men are in worst condition than the Dring Valley contingent, since they too haven't received any supplies from Richius's father and their area of operations is much bleaker than the Dring Valley, which has abundant wild animals and plants.  The Duke tells him that he had determined to leave Mount Godon and the Daegog, but, the night before they were to leave, a magic storm came upon them, attacking the men, horse, and wagons like a living thing and destroying a third of his command.  The Duke immediately took his soldiers out of the fortress, but he saw hundreds, and maybe thousands, of Drol attacking Mount Godon as they left.  The Daegog must have been captured by Tharn's forces.    While Richius is still reluctant to leave, for he knows the Emperor would punish Aramoor in some way, he sees no viable alternative, particularly after another magic storm destroys the Duke's camp near Ackle-Nye and then takes Dyana from him.  Back in Aramoor, King Darius has been murdered by an assassin believed to be Triin.  All remaining troops in the Dring Valley have returned to Aramoor except Lucyler, who has been taken in Richius's place by the Drool.  Only Dinadin remains of all Richius's companions and even Dinadin is having angry feelings about Richius and his father.  Then things really go bad, for Arkus has decided to name Richius as next King of Aramoor and he has to travel to the Black City for the coronation.    This novel is comparable to The Sword of Truth series in its complexity and interest level, but is much simpler that The Wheel of Time series.  Maybe it is no accident that I am reminded of the Viet Nam war by this first volume, for there are striking similarities, yet this series goes beyond the immediate defeat to a greater conflict beyond.  These books have the nitty-gritty feel of reality, particularly in the combat and aftermath scenes.    Some reviewers have disparaged the main characters for their human failings.  They complain that Richius, for example, should have seen that Arkus is an evil man and that theTriin war is evil.  This is the omniscience fallacy, which is fairly widespread in our society, especially since the Viet Nam war, but real people just have to live with their ignorance, doing the best they can with what they know.  Richius was somewhat naive in believing his own side's propaganda, but he was young and lacked the proper degree of cynicism that comes with experience.    Recommended for anyone who enjoys tales of combat and political intrigue on an epic scale.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-04-01
1179935:US	49390985	RTCGIUAQ3VH84	0345340248	11248610	The Dragonriders of Pern: Dragonflight  Dragonquest  The White Dragon (Pern: The Dragonriders of Pern)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	The Start of It All	The Dragonriders of Pern is an omnibus edition of the first three novels in the Pern series, including Dragonflight, Dragonquest, and The White Dragon.<br />In Dragonflight, Lessa had been the lawful heir of Ruatha Hold, but Fax has conquered this hold and four others and now Lessa is posing as a kitchen drudge.  Benden Weyr has come to the High Reaches looking for candidates to impress a Queen in the next hatching.  After visiting Lord Fax's Hold, Crom, and the various guild halls, they travel to the other five held by the high reaches, finally coming to Ruatha.  There Lessa provides Fax with a vile experience and uses the Dragonriders to cause his downfall.  Nonetheless, much to her surprise, they select Lessa to be Presented to the queen egg at the next hatching.<br />In Dragonquest, Lessa and F'lar are the Weyrleaders of Benden Weyr.  However, the Red Star is passing, thread is falling again and the two young weyrleaders are having problems with the Oldtimers.  F'nor, the brother of F'lar, has learned bits and pieces about the Red Star and is obsessed by the quest to find out more about it.<br />In The White Dragon, Jaxom, the son of Fax and Lady Gemma, has become Lord Holder of Ruatha after Lessa abdicated her claim.  His guardian, Lytol, is a former dragonrider who has lost his dragon, so Jaxom has heard a lot about dragons and welcomes the opportunity to witness a hatching.  When one of the hatchlings is undersized and cannot break out of the egg on its own, Jaxom helps a little and finds himself with a small white dragon.  Seeing this, the Lord Holders have a hissy fit.<br />This series introduces the dragons of Pern, which have gone on to become a staple of the SF publishing industry.  None of the sequels, however, quite matches these three novels and the subsequent Harper Hall trilogy.<br />Highly recommended to McCaffrey fans and anyone who enjoys exotic societies, intelligent animals, and political intrigue.	2003-03-27
1179948:US	49390985	R2FSNF09FFIWBH	0553188445	904452631	The Harper Hall of Pern Trilogy: Dragonsinger, Dragonsong, Dragondrums	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A Tale of Harpers	The Harper Hall of Pern is an omnibus edition of the Harper Hall trilogy, including Dragonsong, Dragonsinger and Dragondrums.  It follows the Dragonriders of Pern trilogy.<br />In Dragonsong, Petiron, the old harper, has died and only Menolly, the youngest child of Sea Holder Yanus, can properly sing the deathsong to honor him.  Yanus is scandalized that a girl should perform the role of a harper, but gives in to the inevitable.  Moreover, Menolly is the only one available to instruct the children in the Teaching.  When the new harper arrives, however, Yanus and his wife try to keep Menolly from his attention.  Disconsolate, Menolly starts taking long walks and finds a fire lizard nest about to be swamped by the tide.  She helps save the eggs and returns later to witness the hatching and impresses some of the the hatchlings.  Now Menolly has nine young fire lizards attending her.<br />In Dragonsinger, Menolly and her fair of fire lizards have been called to Harper Hall because of her songwriting.  She has been accepted as the Master Harper's apprentice and soon finds several friends there, dull-witted Camo, who is fascinated by her fire lizards, quick-witted Piemur, who is fascinated by everything, but the foremost is Robiton, the Master Harper himself.  Nevertheless, she also is the target of jealousy and prejudice from some of the residents.  <br />In Dragondrums, Piemur, who is the pampered lead soprano in the Harper choir, finds that his voice is changing.  Moreover, he is no longer the Voice Master's special student.  The normally cheerful boy is desolate, but he soon perks up when he is told that he is now apprenticed to the Master Harper himself, working with Sibel and Menolly and maybe even going to the Southern Continent.<br />This trilogy concentrates on a different segment of Pern society than the previous novels.  The Harpers are the teachers and messengers as well as entertainers.  Moreover, Robinton uses them to spread new ideas and to spy out problemsthat haven't been reported by the Holders.<br />Highly recommended for McCaffrey fans and anyone who enjoys SF tales of young people with a zest for life.	2003-03-27
1180814:US	49390985	R2L9JEIO8CH3I7	0312864272	690733690	The Shadow of Albion (Carolus Rex, Bk 1)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Maryland Tomboy in King Henry's Court	The Shadow of Albion (1999) is the first novel in the Carolus Rex series.  This story takes place in an alternate reality in which magic is very possible.  In England, Charles II has proclaimed his lawful marriage to Mistress Waters and has accepted Charles, the Duke of Monmouth, as his heir.  Upon the death of his father, the Duke became King Charles III  and the Stuart dynasty has since reigned over England.  The American colonies have remained reasonably content with Stuarts on the English throne, although the thirteen colonies are blocked from expansion by the French lands to their west.    In this novel, it is 1805 and Napoleon Bonoparte rules in France.  Sarah, Marchioness of Roxbury, is dying of galloping consumption and Dame Alecto Kennet arrives to confront Roxbury with her dereliction of duty, for she has no heir.  They look into the timelines for one to take her place and find Sarah Cunningham from Maryland sailing to England.  Roxbury rides to the Saracen Stones to effect the change.    Sarah Cunningham is a child of the new Republic, spending her childhood years between Baltimore and the deep woods.  She has grown up among the Cree indian lodges, hunting, fishing, and cooking the game on an open fire.  Then, when she is 25, her parents die of cholera and she is taken in by a distant cousin of her mothers.    Sarah Cunningham is aboard ship because a Madame Alecto Kennet has come to America as an agent of the Dowager Duchess of Wessex and Sarah is called to England to right a wrong done to her family.  Unfortunately, Madame Kennet dies at sea.  Sarah leaves the ship at Bristol and catches the mail coach to London.  On the way, they colllide with a strange spidery chariot driven by herself.  Sarah falls through the coach window and loses consciousness.    When Sarah again becomes aware of her surroundings, she finds everyone treating her as the Marchioness of Roxbury.  She also discovers that she is betrothed to Rupert St. Ives, Duke of Wessex.  Gradually, she find out that her fiance is a secret agent of the White Tower and then things start to become really exciting.    This novel is a Regency romance in a timeline that has no Regency.  However, it does have Napoleon Bonaparte, Talleyrand, and a strangely effective, but still cruel, Marquis de Sade.  Moreover, it does have magic, both white and black.    Recommended for Norton fans and anyone who enjoys romantic adventure in a fantasy setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-03-26
1180959:US	49390985	R24EOMEDA5SMG8	0671653806	935655720	The Broken Lands (Empire of the East, Book 1)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	To Ride the Elephant	The Broken Lands is the first novel in the Empire of the East series,  which follows the adventures of Rolf, a sixteen year old peasant boy born in the lands of the Satrap Ekuman.      In this novel, Rolf is plowing the fields when the soldiers come to his farm.  His first awareness that something is wrong is the sight of a winged reptile swooping down to the farm yard.  Running home as fast as possible, Rolf finds the flimsy house kicked apart and bodies that look something like his parents sprawled amid all the other ruined things in the yard.  Though he searches everywhere, he cannot find his sister Lisa, so he goes looking for her.  After a while, he finds himself sitting beside the road, quivering with exhaustion.  A man is standing near him.  At first, he thinks that the man is a soldier and wonders if he might get out his knife and kill him, but he looks more closely and sees that the man is not a soldier. The man asks if anything is wrong, but it is too hard to understand the question.  He just gives up and slips into unconsciousness.      Rolf awakes as the man pours water into his mouth.  When the man again asks him if anything is wrong, Rolf manages to force out words to tell his story.  When Rolf is done, the man introduces himself as the peddler Mewick.  The peddler return to the farm with Rolf and helps bury his parents.  After the burial, Rolf accompanies Mewick south, carrying the pack when Mewick tires.  However, the peddler takes the knife from Rolf and then throws it away, saying that it is against Castle law.  As they are walking, three mounted Castle soldiers overtake them and insist on searching Mewick's pack.  While one of the soldiers is searching the pack, he comes upon a love charm and casually asks why they never catch a young girl out there.  The other soldiers ignore him, but Rolf goes berserk, reaching for a rock and throwing it at the trooper.  Although he misses, Mewick doesn't, and they kill all three soldiers.  However, their actions are seen and they immediately have to run from other soldiers.      They flee into the swamp and the Castle soldiers soon give up the pursuit.  Rolf and Mewick wade through the bogs for hours.  Around midnight, a very large bird swoops down on them and converses with Mewick.  Soon they find a camp on a strip of dry land and are able to sit down and eat warm food.  When Rolf awakens, he recalls that his parents are dead and Lisa is missing.  Next, he confirms that he still has the short sword taken from the dead trooper.  Then, arising, he goes to meet the others in the camp, the woman Manka and her husband Loford.  After he has washed, he finds the large bird, Strijeef, perched deep within a tree and asleep.  He learns that the birds fly at night, acting as scouts and killing the winged reptiles used by the Castle soldiers.  Rolf has found the Western Resistance and soon becomes a full member when the reptiles find their camp and attack Strijeef.  The Resistance group flees further into the swamp to avoid the soldiers who follow the reptiles.    While they flee, Loford raises a water elemental to overwhelm the Castle soldiers and cover their escape.  Still, the reptiles follow them and attack once more.  Mewick shoots arrows at them and Rolf swings his sword, but doesn't hit anything.  Disgusted at his performance, Rolf asks Mewick to teach him how to use the sword and, after one wild swing almost skewers him, Mewick agrees out of sheer self-defense.  Soon they come to a larger camp in the swamp and Rolf is introduced to Thomas, a local leader.  He also learns of Ardneh, who rides the Elephant and is armed with thunderbolts.  Then, as Strijeef is preparing to go out on his nightly patrol, another bird, Feathertip, returns with word of the Elephant.  The Resistance group decides to investigate the find and Rolf goes with them.    The Castle soldiers, however, have not given up their search for Rolf and his new friends.  Moreover, they know something of the Elephantand Ardneh, so they are also searching for these relics of the old times.    This series is one of the most enthralling tales of magical adventure that I have ever encountered.  All of the Swords and the Gods books are based on this series, but, while quite enjoyable in themselves, the sequels have never really achieved the same level of fascination.    Recommended for Saberhagen fans and anyone who enjoys well crafted tales of sword, sorcery, and high adventure.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-03-26
1182849:US	49390985	R2F25QHWMWDQCQ	0446531227	874612816	Zulu Heart: A Novel of Slavery and Freedom in an Alternate America	Books	5	11	11	N	N	An Even Closer Mirror	Zulu Heart is the second novel in the In'shallah series, following Lion's Blood.  In the previous volume, Kai's father has been killed in a slave uprising.  Also, his brother, Ali, has been killed by General Shaka, the Zulu Commander of the Bilalistan forces at the Mosque of the Fathers, and Kai then has killed Shaka and taken command of these forces.  However, the Zulus have withdraw with Shaka's body to their homeland.    Kai sends his friend Fodjour for help before other Aztec forces trap the Balalistanis within the Mosque.  Kai's soldiers hold out for days;  morale is good, particularly since Kai offers to free any of the slave soldiers that stay and fight with them.  When one soldier finds a back way out, Kai evacuates the compound and lures the Aztecs inside, then sets off most of their stored powder, killing or wounding the entire Aztec force.      When their relief arrives, Kai takes his men back to their towns and plantations, providing money to the men and buying the freedom of the slaves.  He also offers land and jobs to his survivors and provides assistance to the widows and orphans.  Many proclaim Kai as a hero, but other, more conservative, Muslims blame him for destroying the Mosque compound.    When Kai and Aiden come to the castle of Kai's fraternal uncle, Malik, they find that his uncle's wife is dead and Malik has taken Aiden's sweetheart, Sophia, as his bed slave.  Aiden tries to challenge Malik for Sophia, but does not have the skill, so Kai is forced, by his love and obligations toward Aiden and Sophia, to kill his uncle in single combat;  actually, even Kai is unable to penetrate Malik's defense, but Malik also cannot force himself to kill Kai, so Malik commits suicide by leaving himself open to Kai's sword.  Kai provides a wedding for Aiden and Sophia, giving them money and land in the Wichita territory as a gift.  Since Ali is dead, Kai marries his brother's betrothed, Lamiya, niece of the Immortal Empress of Abyssinia.    In this novel, three years have passed in which Kai has taken on his father's responsibilities at Dar Kush, the plantation, and in the Territorial Senate.  He obtains secret papers sent by the Caliph of Bilalistan to the Pharaoh of Egypt, but the papers are encrypted.  Kai asks Babatunde to try to decrypt them, but the Sufi determines that this is impossible without the original encrypting machine.  Since Kai believes the papers to contain vital information on the role of Bilalistan in the forthcoming conflict between Egypt and Abyssinian, Kai travels to Wichita territory to ask Aiden to undertake a dangerous mission to obtain this machine.     When he arrives, Aiden and his neighbors have just fought off a vigilante group trying to capture and crucify Aiden.  Kai backs the local Constable in clearing up the matter and warns the town that Aiden is under his protection.  Then Kai explains the problem to Aiden and shows him a light-drawing of a strawberry blonde slave that Aiden recognizes as his long lost sister, Nessa.  Since large sums have been offered for Nessa in the past and have been refused, Kai has come up with a way to just steal her along with the encrypting machine.  However, Aiden will have to pose as a slave and fight in the arena to gain access to the Caliph's palace.    In the meantime, the Hashassin -- the fabled Assassins -- are tracking down the secret papers.  They have already found the courier, but he found a way to commit suicide.  Now they are checking out people that may have met with the courier.  One group focuses on Kai and contacts Fodjour's mother, who has used their services previously.     In addition, Shaka's brother, Cetshwayo, contacts Kai to ask if sufficient mourning time has passed to allow consummation of the marriage between his daughter, Nandi, and Kai as arranged by Abu Ali, Kai's father.  The remaining paperwork is quickly completed and Nandi becomes Kai's second wife.    This novel delves deeper into the relationship between the black masters of Bilalistan and their white slaves.  Moreover, it also shows something of the role of women in that society.  By reversing the racial roles, the story demonstrates the self-justifying excuses and self-serving rationalizations of slave owners, no matter what the race or religion.  It provides some serious criticisms of modern day muslim practices as compared to the words of the Prophet, but such faults are also found in Christian societies.    This novel is worth reading on several levels in addition to its satire of slavery in this country.  It is a well thought out model of an alternate timeline with laws, mores, customs and folkways deriving from a different tradition.  The characters are true to their own worldviews and traditions, even in their follies.  This volume is better than the last, expanding the world even further.  The next volume should be worth the wait.    Recommended for Barnes fans and anyone who enjoys well-crafted SF tales of other cultures.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-03-24
1182871:US	49390985	R1JN37HS42Q1RH	0312857640	622239218	Primary Inversion	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Future Shock Among the Mayans	Future Shock Among the Mayans    Primary Inversion (1995) is the first novel in the Skolian Imperialate series, but takes place rather later, following [[ASIN:0812551109 The Last Hawk]] in internal chronological sequence.  In that novel, Keric crashed on Coba and became a Calanya.  His fate was not known to the Skolians.    In this novel, in 2259 AD, Sauscony Valdoria is a Jagernaut Primary, a rank equivalent to Admiral, a Psion, and a member of the Ruby dynasty.  Soz and her fellow cyberfighters, and empaths, have landed on Delos for R&R and are having a difficult time handling the fear of the population.      When they encounter a group of Eubian bodyguards, one invites Soz out for a drink, but this only initiates flashbacks to a time when Soz became a provider to a Highton Aristo while undercover in an intelligence operation.  The Eubians, also known as Slave Traders, are stunted Psions who can only receive feelings of pain, but experience pleasure at the sensation.  Thus, they are all sadists, basking in the pain of others, particularly the Rhon empaths, who generate stronger feelings of pain and hence are called providers for the intense pleasure they provide to the Aristos.      The Skolians sense that the Eubian is an Aristo in disquise, probably looking for providers to kidnap.  They report the Eubian's presence to the local police and discover a fellow empath in the interpreter who takes their report.  When the others leave, Soz stays behind to talk to the interpreter and he gives her a vintage book as a gift for confirming that he is an empath.    When Soz returns to the inn, she finds Rex, her Secondary, in a fey mood.  He announces that he is going to retire and asks Soz to marry him.  Soz agrees, but then Rex learns that their children cannot be part of the Ruby dynasty, since Rex lacks the recessive genes that allow the Ruby dynastic line to access the ancient controllers for the Skol-Net which links all human space with instantaneous communications.This reminder chills his desire to marry Soz, but he warms up again after re-consideration.    While walking around, Soz has a conversation with a little girl which triggers a connection in her memories:  the Eubian didn't generate the usual empty feeling to her empathic talents that is characteristic of an Aristo.  Soz investigates further and finds something very strange:  an Aristo heir to the Eubian throne who is a full Psion.    This novel is full of strange ideas and viewpoints.  Although the backstory is imparted in small doses, there is an immense history that looms in the background.  Overall, this novel is confusing, but still a fun read, and the romantic aspects are just as well handled as the technological.  Portions of this series have been published in Analog, yet the series has been praised in Romantic Times.  An unusual combination that should happen more often.    Recommended for anyone who enjoys hard SF intermingled with a plot of political intrigue and romance.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-03-24
1184486:US	49390985	R2KPZFGT808MT5	1880418207	887573397	Fur Magic	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A Spirit Dream?	Fur Magic (1968) is the second fantasy novel in the Magic series, following [[ASIN:0765352974 Steel Magic]].  It is based on the legends of the North American Indians.     In the tales of the Nez Perce, and other tribes, the Changer is a great power who has the ability to shape things.  Often called the Trickster, the Changer delights in confounding others with his changes.  Long ago, the Old People, sapient oversized animals, ruled the world, but then the Changer made mankind and changed everything.    In this story, Cory Adler is a Floridan boy whose father has been assigned to Viet Nam by the Army and whose mother is taking care of his grandmother in San Francisco.  An old Army buddy of his father, Uncle Jasper, has invited Cory to stay on his ranch while his parents are away and Cory looks forward to it with great anticipation.  Yet the actual experience is much more frightening than he expects;  the horses are big and buck him off, the animals have sharp teeth and claws, and the night is filled with strange noises.    The day after Cory's unsuccessful attempt to ride a horse, Uncle Jasper takes him up to an old line cabin in the high country and leaves him there while the adults ride off to inspect the young horses.  Cory agrees to wait for Black Elk, an old indian shaman, to arrive at the cabin and then to phone for a jeep to carry the old man to the main house.  Cory is willing, as long as he doesn't have to ride a horse, and soon starts to explore the surrounding area.  He accidentally falls into a shallow hole and breaks a basket and a turtleshell rattle within the hollow.  He takes a leather bag back to the cabin to get a better look at it, but decides it is a medicine pouch and replaces it within the broken basket.    While exploring some more, he notices brown shapes moving around on a distance hillside and uses his binoculars to resolve the image into three buffalo, two adults and a calf.  Moreover, he sees a man wearing an animal skin, possibly coyote,dancing close to the animals while carrying a decorated stick and a turtleshell rattle.  He is held motionless by fear, but manages to drop the binoculars, which frees his muscles.  Still terrified, he nonetheless runs toward the site where he has seen the buffalo and the man, but only tracks remain of the animals and man.    When he returns to the cabin, he finds an old indian man sitting motionless by the firepit.  He asks the old man if he is Black Eagle and is finally answered with a bare acknowledgment.  Cory makes a meal in the firepit for the old man, who eats everything given to him and Cory's portion as well.  Afterwards, the old man pulls out a leather bag, the same medicine pouch that Cory had returned to the basket, throws some dust on the fire that causes a steady stream of smoke to rise above it, and insists that Cory has done wrong and must purify himself by holding the pouch in the smoke.  When Cory complies, he is transported into the mind of an oversized beaver named Yellow Shell.    Cory thinks that he is in an exceptionally vivid dream, but cannot awaken.  His mind accompanies Yellow Shell as he fights against marauding minks and clever crows which are minions of the Changer.  He even meets the Changer face to face and is able to fight back and find a way to return to his own body.  Moreover, he is now able to overcome his fears.    This story may be the earliest of the author's tales involving the legends and people of the tribes.  Other works influenced by these traditions include the Beast Master series, The Sioux Spaceman, and The Defiant Agents.  These tales of indian ways have been very influential to many young people through the years, possibly including Jane Lindskold, author of Changer and the Firekeeper series, which contain some of these same images.    This novel is intended for young people, but like her other juveniles, is also enjoyable to an old man like me.    Recommended for Norton fans and anyone who enjoys simple tales of exotic folks and heroic quests.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-03-22
1184993:US	49390985	R36MOAOH47NIOX	0345409337	578330403	Stars and Stripes Forever (Stars & Stripes Forever)	Books	5	7	13	N	N	America United Against England?	Stars & Stripes Forever is the first novel in a trilogy about a Civil War that didn't quite happen.  In our timeline, on November 8, 1861, the USS San Jacinto, an Union warship, stopped the Trent, a packet ship flying British colors, in the Bahama Channel and took off two Confederate diplomats, John Slidell and William Murray Mason.  Since the packet ship belonged to a neutral power and the boarding occurred on the high seas or, in some views, within British colonial waters, the US warship had committed an act of war.  The British public responded with a great outcry and the Queen and her ministers were infuriated.  Prince Albert, however, persuaded the Queen to moderate their response and a firm, but not inflammatory, note was immediately passed to the US government and eventually the two diplomats were released.    In this novel, Prince Albert tries to calm his wife but is too ill to be effective; in fact, he passes out and has to be carried to his bed.  Thus, the note generated from this meeting is markedly different in tone from that of our timeline.  The note is hand carried to the US Secretary of State, Sewart, with a request for an immediate answer.  The US Cabinet, however, is divided on the response, but agrees to have the ambassador to Great Britain, Charles Adams, meet with Lord Palmerston to negotiate a compromise settlement.  However, the British are not in the mood for compromise;  Lord Palmerston has already considered withholding military supplies from the Union and is sending additional troops to Canada.  Then there is a firefight between Canadian whiskey smugglers and a customs patrol that is reported to England as an invasion of Canadan territory.  The British issue an ultimatum:  seven days to return the Confederate prisoners and apologize for the invasion or there will be war.    When the British invade from Canada, they are met by New York militia, who take heavy casualties.  Additional British troops under the command of the Duke of Cambridge,Commander-in Chief of the British Army and the Queen's cousin, have been sent to the Gulf of Mexico in an attempt to take Deer Island, a Union bastion offshore from Mississippi, but miss their landing in the fog and instead attack a Confederate installation in Biloxi.  Learning of the mistake, the Duke continues to push the attack in order to meet up with the Canadian invasion force, thereby splitting the country.      Under intense pressure from the British, CSA General Beauregard requests an armistice from General William T. Sherman and instead is given a temporary alliance against a common enemy.  Word of the unexpected attack and this cooperative response galvanizes both the North and South, leading to a ceasefire and talks of reunion.      Moreover, General McClellan is hospitalized with a fever and Lincoln seizes the chance to relieve him as General of the Armies;  he appoints General Sherman as his replacement.  Due to his actions in Biloxi, the CSA agrees that Sherman will also be Commanding General of the Joint Armies of the Union and the Confederacy.    In the meantime, a tragic fall from his horse sends a paralyzed General Ripley, Chief of Ordnance, to the hospital.  His aide, General Ramsey, is chosen as his replacement and immediately initiates changes to modernize Army weapons, starting with replacement of the standard rifle with breechloaders and equipping marksmen units with the Sharps rifle.  The spirit of innovation also pervades the Naval Department, leading to orders for more of Ericcson's iron ships and for Parrott's interrupted screw breechloader cannons.  Formerly a mostly rural society, this new war causes an infant military-industrial complex to stretch its muscles and produce new weapons and tactics.    The Civil War was never as popular in the Union as America's previous wars.  There were many opponents of the War who were shouted down by the vocal proponents and even imprisoned for their protests.  A civil war just didn't sit well with many people and too many families were split down the middle.  A war with England, however, would have been rather popular in the North, particularly after so many English ships were blockade runners.    The South had a warmer attitude toward England, mostly due to these blockade runners, but still had differences of opinions, especially about the British Navy backed embargo against the shipment of slaves from Africa.  The current British government irritated both North and South with its arrogance assumptions of superiority.  Another war with England would probably be much more popular in the Confederacy than the ongoing Civil War.    The permanent reunion of these two American nations, however, would depend on a stronger commitment to resolving their disagreements.  The new spirit of cooperation can only strengthen that possibility, yet many differences must still be overcome.    This book sticks close to the actual history, both in events and in the personalities.  The fictional events, moreover, are much like actual events that occurred elsewhere;  for example, the British mistakes in the Gulf reflect actual problems in their other wars in that century.  The navigation of that time, particularly in open boats during foggy weather, was generally much less than precise and British troops of that era were frequently undisciplined in victory.  The critical reviews of this story, on the other hand, often are achronistic in viewpoint, reflecting present day standards and capablilities.    The major criticism that can be made of this series is that the author selects among those possibilities that will support his story line.  The author almost certainly started with a specific conclusion and then followed the possibilities backwards to the point of divergence.  This practice is much like reverse engineering and is used even among working scientists.  Maybe the probabilities are slim and maybe not, but it is nevertheless a legitimate strategy for plotting a work of fiction.  It is the practice of \\"What if\\" and who can say that these events could never have happened.     The author is known mostly for his Stainless Steel Rat series, but has also produced several alternate timeline stories, including Tunnel Through the Deeps, The Rebel in Time, and the Eden series.  While not as verbose as Harry Turtledove, his stories have the same tone of good research and believable characters.  Both often bring a personal touch and ethnic viewpoint that enliven their works and both are among my most favored authors.    Recommended for Harrison fans and anyone who enjoys well-crafted tales of alternate wars.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-03-22
1185532:US	49390985	R2DX8Y2N009PN1	034540937X	744713341	Stars and Stripes Triumphant	Books	5	8	14	N	N	England A Democracy?	Stars & Stripes Triumphant is the third novel in a trilogy about a Civil War that didn't quite happen, following Stars & Stripes in Peril.  In the previous volume, the US Navy has established local naval superiority in Irish waters and the US Army has defeated the British troops ashore.  Ireland is now free and the Americans help her set up a democratic republican government.  This really torques Queen Victoria.    In this story, the British have started conducting raids against Ireland and they have gathered up all Irish nationals within English borders and placed them in camps.  They have also resumed the practice of impressing American sailors from ships on the high seas.  Moreover, they are searching ships at sea for so-called contraband -- American cotton -- destined for Europe, confiscating the ships and imprisoning their crews.  The British really cannot believe that they have lost the war.    At a European peace conference in Brussels, the President, Abraham Lincoln, is shot at by an angry southern sympathizer, the actor John Wilkes Booth, and General Grant is wounded in the arm.  General Sherman meets an interesting Polish count serving in the Russian navy while in Brussels and takes a sea voyage to England on the count's steam yacht, with himself, Gus Fox, and a US Naval officer disguised as Russians.  Although they have a couple of close calls, Sherman and Fox return to Washington with some interesting strategic observations.    With the help of Ericcson, the shipwright and inventor, and others in the defense industries, General Sherman upgrades the tools of war and devises an innovative plan for the invasion of England.  There will be no holding back this time.    Another reviewer has mentioned that the author postulated a series of occurrences that did not happen in this timeline rather than a single discrete event.  I am not really sure why this is a problem, since any single event MUST significantly effect subsequent events in order to cause any noticeable change in the timeline.  Otherwise, the changed event would be buried in the clutter of everyday life and forgotten by posterity.    Other reviewers find it hard to believe that the Americans could develop so much new equipment is such a brief time.  All right, I acknowledge that the light bulb is unlikely, but the ships are just about dead on.  It is little advertised, but the US claimed reparations from England after the Civil War because of the support that country supplied to the Confederacy.  England demurred, the US Navy send a squadron of iron ships, with turrets, to English waters as a gentle hint, the English had nothing that could stand against them, and England paid the US claims.  If I remember the date correctly, that was in 1879, but it could have been even earlier if the US was forced to fight a naval war with England.  All the pieces were there, but nobody had a need for them in 1865.    Recommended for Harrison fans and anyone who enjoys well-crafted tales of alternate wars.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-03-21
1186259:US	49390985	R1SY0PEFRIYE8B	0743435621	79101843	March to the Stars (Weber, David)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Watch Out Empire, Roger's Back	March to the Stars is the third novel in the Empire of Man series, following [[ASIN:074343580X March To the Sea]].  The initial volume in this sequence is [[ASIN:0743435389 March Upcountry]].<br /><br />In the previous volume, Roger and the surviving Marines of Bravo Company, Bronze Battalion, the Empress' Own Regiment, and their auxiliaries have fought their way to K'vaern's Cove, killing a lot of Boman on the way and even more after they arrive. However, losses have been heavy among Roger's companions, including Matsugae Kotas, his valet and semi-father figure. The losses are undermining his determination, but Sergeant Nimashet Despreaux refuses to let him stay in his funk.<br /><br />In this novel, the shipyards of K'vearn's Cove have turned out six armed schooners of Imperial design as well as one belated addition, a much larger, and slower, armed transport, the Snarleyow, to carry the cavalry's civans and other bulk cargo. When the flotilla is only a few days out from the large island, or small continent, where the spaceport is located, they discover why ships fail to return from voyages across the sea: a coll fish as large as the ship takes a bite out of the stern of the Sea Skimmer. By the time Roger's troops have killed the monster, at least half of those onboard are lost. Thereafter, they mount a bead weapon manjack on the stern of each ship to give the next fish an unpleasant surprise.<br /><br />The fight against the giant coll fish shakes Roger out of his funk. This is fortunate, for a couple of days later they discover another ship apparently fleeing with six others in hot pursuit. Despite the other possibilities, the pursuing ships really are pirates and Captain Pahner temporarily relinquishes command to Roger, who is much more knowledgeable about surface naval warfare.<br /><br />Roger leads the five smaller ships into an attack on the pirates, leaving the Snarleyow behind to guard the merchanter. The pirate ships are designed with a bow-mounted bombard for attacking in a stern chase and only have a few swivel guns on the sides. Since the goal is to capture the pirate ships rather than sink them, Roger maneuvers to the windward, swoops directly at the pirates with the wind behind him, and then pummels the pirate ships with grape and ball broadsides, even slowing down as they draw near to allow multiple strikes. Although a lucky shot temporarily disables the Prince John, Roger's ships disable four of the pirates immediately, the disabled Prince John takes another with a plasma rifle from the stern, and the Hooker chases down the last ship.<br /><br />As the Hooker overtakes the pirate and rakes her with broadsides through the stern, Roger returns command to Captain Pahner and sits out the boarding in the ratlines, where he can see the action. Cord and Denat, Roger's asi and his nephew, stay with Roger to protect him with their shields, but Cord sees that the pirates are killing prisoners and leaps aboard to save them. Noticing Cord board the pirate, but not really understanding why, Roger follows him -- with a curse or two -- to guard his back. Dogzard, Roger's pet, also jumps aboard. Bad luck for the pirates, who make the mistake of attacking the threesome and don't survive the experience. Nonetheless, Roger is the center of angry attention as his companions assume that he has yielded to his impulses once more. After everybody quietens down enough to hear, Roger explains that Cord started it, but he still gets chewed out, even by Cord, for not staying safely aboard the Hooker.<br /><br />This little exercise in piracy suppression gains them an important ex-prisoner, a Shin princess, Pedi Dorson Acos Lefan Karuse. She is an excellent source of intelligence as well as humor, for she has become benan -- the Shin equivalent of an asi -- to Cord due to his rescue. Since Pedi is young and pretty, everyone is soon teasing Cord about his new girl friend.<br /><br />After the snickering dies down, Eleanora O'Casey, Roger's chief of staff, explains the geography and politics of the area. The pirates are Lammar Raiders from an island based political entity similar to the Barbary Sultanate. The Krath Temple rules a riverine civilization in the principal valley to the south of the mainland. The Shin and the Shadem are barbaric highlanders in the small vales covering most of the mainland from the north to the Temple lands.<br /><br />The Marines are running out of time. While the giant coll fish extended their supplies of dietary supplements, there still isn't very much left. Moreover, a hunter/killer team from the spaceport is following their trail. Now they are faced with a theocratic society that takes slaves and uses them up quickly, not to mention unfriendly pirates. And then they must take the spaceport and capture a ship in orbit.<br /><br />Note that the girl in the mirrored armor is not visible on the front or back covers. However, the pirate ships changed from two masted cogs in the story to something like three masted galleons on the front cover. Artists, can't live with them ...<br /><br />This volume of the series does not lack for excitement, yet it left me wanting a sequel. The next installment in this sequence is [[ASIN:1416520848 We Few]].<br /><br />Recommended for Weber & Ringo fans and for anyone who enjoys deadly environments and competent soldiers in a SF setting.<br /><br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2003-03-21
1186687:US	49390985	R1K6ZUXWKX5DLP	0786249595	196023119	Mind Out of Time (Five Star Science Fiction/Fantasy)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	More Than a Warlock	Mind Out of Time is a collection of stories covering a span from 1981 to 2003. They cover a variety of SF and fantasy themes.    \\"The Warlock's Grandfather\\" is an odd story of either madness or canniness. After a long life of dedication to the family business, Count Rory begins to live in a dream world of his own making. This humiliates some of his children and their spouses, but elates two of his grandchildren.    \\"Coronach of the Bell\\" is a sad tale warning of the dangers of intervention in an ecology with insufficient knowledge. At the same time, it is a tale of forgiveness.    The earliest story, \\"The Martyrdom of St. Vidicon of Cathode\\", is a tale of Murphy's Law as manifested in technology. A backstory of the Warlock series, this tale might be seen as a farce to non-technical readers, but it is a tribute to human perseverance to anyone who has had to deal with electronic equipment. It may be contrived, but there is more than a smidgen of truth in it. High tech has its own version of praying in the foxholes.    \\"Pride and Puppetry\\" is obviously about prejudice, but also about loyalty and justice. When is it appropriate to allow your liege lord to be humiliated?    \\"Gordon's Quest\\" is a story of redemption through martyrdom. Unlike St. Vidicon, Gordon is seeking death to achieve paradise. Sound familiar? Of course, the author doesn't write just a journey toward death, but throws in a few exploitive gods that use Gordon to put down another god who has been coopted by the Taiping revolution.    \\"Who Ghost There?\\" is a romantic tale of a little girl, Anthea, with negligent parents who finds parental love from the family ghost. It seems Sir Roderick cannot rest until he recovers his head, so he has been consoling and protecting lonely children for centuries. Just to enlivened the plot, there are two suitors for Anthea's hand, a pair of the last Faerie in England, and a foreign spirit who manifests as a ball of fire.    The latest story, \\"Mind Out of Time\\", is also abackstory of the Warlock series. Angus McAran is deformed in body, but brilliant of mind. After graduating with a electrical engineering degree with a minor in physics, he became an inventor for a large corporation for a six figure salary and a well equipped laboratory. The company paid him a good amount for each patent issued, but then retained the royalties. While the money was minor matter, the lack ownership of the patents still irked him. Then, one day he found himself faced with a man -- actually a Neanderthal -- from his future (and other times) who advised him to invent a time machine and free himself from the tyranny of being a salaryman.    These stories display the humor and characterization often found in the author's various series, but also show a greater degree of versatility than found in the series work. While this collection brings all his stories into print, one may hope that the author will produce a few more in the near future.    Recommended for Stasheff fans and anyone who enjoys humor and a bit of wisdom in SF and fantasy settings.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-03-20
1187494:US	49390985	R1CCC19QKM5DYI	0345325885	352516611	Star Man's Son	Books	5	32	34	N	N	After the Blow-up, What Next?	Star Man's Son (1952) is a post-apocalyptic novel that takes place about two centuries after the Great-Blowup. This story is also entitled Daybreak - 2250 AD in reprint editions.    The cause of the catastrophe is unknown, but the effect are quite obvious. Much of the population was killed by the immediate effects of nuclear bombs, many others died later from the direct radiation and fallout from those bombs, and many more died from induced radioactivity, plague and starvation. Many plants and animals had been mutated into unrecognizable and deadly forms. Only a few humans survived and many of these were also mutated into Beast Things and other horrible creatures in the \\"blue cities\\" where radioactivity lingered. A very few survivors, however, received beneficial mutations that improved their chances of survival, but the seemingly normal survivors generally feared and hated any and every mutant.    Fors is the son of Langdon, a Star Man, a far ranging explorer and leader of the Eyrie, and a woman that Langdon had meet down on the plains. Although Langdon was seemingly normal, Fors has inherited white hair from his mother, a mutation viewed with suspicion by the other residents of the Eyrie. While Langdon was alive, he protected Fors from most of the fear and hatred, but then Langdon was killed by Beast Things on an exploration into a far city and the men who find him bring back only a few of his belongings.    After that, Fors was mostly ignored in his efforts to become a Star Man like his father. He has been adopted by Lura, a great hunting cat, and has made his own sword, knive, bow, and arrows as required. His father, a master teacher among the Star Men, had already ensured before his death that Fors knows all that is required. Nevertheless, the Council has passed over him for five years and tomorrow he will have to give up his weapons and become a tiller of the soil. As he ponders his options, Fors conceives a bold plan and immediately starts gathering suppliesand equipment, including his father's pouch, for a great journey to search for the lost city in the north that was never bombed and thus is safe for scavengers.    Although Fors has tried to hide them, he has some unusual talents that will help him on his trek: he is able to communicate empathically with Lura and he has much better night vision than most humans. Moreover, he has other, more subtle talents that manifest as he travels.    This story is based on the premise that mankind will come close to destroying himself and this premise is found in many other works by the author. In many respects, it is a reflection of the worldview of the Cold War era, but it persists even in recent SF stories. In most of Norton's tales, this apocalyptic vision was like Pandora's box, in that there was an element of hope among all the horrors of war.    Recommended for Norton fans and anyone who enjoys a mostly optimistic story of the possible future.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-03-20
1187906:US	49390985	REWJRF7YBD95F	0756401224	223452361	Joust: Joust #1 (Dragon Jousters)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Dragon and Her Boy	Joust is a fantasy novel about a boy and a dragon.  Vetch is an Altan and when the Tians conquer his part of Alta, his father's land is given to a Tian family.  The soldiers who evict his family also kill his father and cause brain damage to his sister.  Then, the surviving, conscious members of the family are informed that they are serfs, property of the Great King and bound to the land.    When Khefti-the-fat wants to gain possession of part of the property formerly owned by Vetch's family, he must also take possession of one of the family itself since the lands go with the serfs, so he chooses Vetch.  Khefti works Vetch much harder than his apprentices, for they are Tian and can return home if their family agrees, and harder even than his slaves, for they are worth money, because Vetch is worthless to him alive.  Khefti cannot sell him, but Vetch wonders if Khefti can keep the land without any serfs if his current serf dies.    Vetch is fetching water to the cistern that serves the tala fields when a man takes away his water bucket, drinks part of it, and pours the rest over his head.  Vetch is very angry, but his anger turns to terror when Khefti comes with his whip to punish him for losing the water.  At first Khefti does not see the stranger, but after two slashes of the whip, the man brings himself to Khefti's attention by holding back the third slash.  While initially angry, Khefti starts to grovel as soon as he sees the stranger, for he is a Jouster, a dragon rider for the Great King of Tia.    The Jouster, Ari, requisitions Vetch for the Great King's service as his dragon boy and flies away with him on Kashet, the dragon, leaving behind a very angry Khefti.  After one day as Ari's dragon boy, Vetch realizes that life will be much less difficult for him in this job and that Ari is an exceptional master compared to the other Jousters. As he grows to know more about Ari, Vetch begins to lose his hatred of this particular Tian.  Moreover, he is gaining respectfor a few others in the dragon corps, but he stills hates Tia itself.  Nevertheless, he works ardently for the welfare of his master and his dragon, earning his place among the dragon boys.    The reason Ari is different is that he has raised Kashet from the egg, thus automatically becoming a Jouster.  No other dragon has been trained in this way and Kashet is much more cooperative than the other dragons, especially with Ari, but also with Vetch himself, and to lesser extent with Haraket, the Overseer of the Dragon tenders and another man Vetch learns to respect.      Vetch decides to emulate Ari and raise his own dragon from the egg.  Knowing that a serf will never be allowed to be a Jouster, he will have to hide all such activities even from Ari, but various events make such secrecy less difficult, possibly due to intervention by the Altan gods.    This story is set in a world much like ancient Egypt;  even the names of gods and places are phonetically similar to Egyptian names.  Tia is much like the Upper Kingdom and Alta is similar to the Lower Kingdom and, like ancient Egypt, the two kingdoms have very similar cultures, languages, gods, and physiognomies.  Even the Tians recognize that the two kingdoms may have come from the same people, but don't want to think about it.      In fact, the Tians themselves had been conquered 500 years before and treated in a callous manner by the invaders.  Although they have ousted the Nameless Ones long before, possibly with help from Alta, they still remember their heinous treatment, but now the Tians are treating the Altans in exactly the same way.    Not being an Egyptologist, I really don't know if the ancient Egyptians had a dragon mythos, but the mesopotamians -- e.g., the Assyrians and the Babylonians --- certainly did and many legends crossed the deserts between these civilizations.  The headwaters of the Nile have often been considered a place where anything is possible, maybe even dragons.    Once again, the authorbrings alive an exotic culture and some of its people while presenting a vivid lesson in social ethics.  Her portrayal of the Bedu provides another lesson about stereotypes.  However, this story is a pleasure to read, so who cares if we learn something in the process.  I do hope this is not a singleton novel, for the author ends the story with so many unfulfilled possibilities.    By the way, there is a lot of really interesting details of animal training, particularly of raptors, all applied to the training of dragons.  Moreover, we learn that dragons are a lot like cats, especially when young.  If you ever find a dragon egg, look to this book for good advice in raising the creature.  Better still, email the author for assistance.    Recommended for Lackey fans and anyone who enjoys interesting animals, exotic cultures, and daring adventure.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-03-19
1188116:US	49390985	R242SLHT4V6JKQ	0671721763	658606890	Hunting Party	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A Very British Story	Hunting Party (1993) is the first novel in the Familias Regnant series.  Heris Serrano is a Commander in the Regular Space Service when she is framed and set up to be court-martialed, but takes the offer to resign instead.  She accepts an interim job as the captain of a private yacht while she searches for a way to be reinstated.  As a scion of a multi-generation RSS family, Heris has not had much contact with the ruling families and encounters a number of surprises.  Moreover, there is more widespread corruption within the RSS than she expected.    In this novel, Heris gets a job as the captain of Lady Cecelia's yacht, the Sweet Delight, but all is not well onboard.  Lady Cecelia's nephew, Ronnie, is aboard at the insistence of his parents due to unseemly remarks of a bedroom nature about the Heir Apparent's current lover.  Odious George is aboard to be with Ronnie.  Sarah and Raffaele are aboard to be with the boys while Buttons and Bubbles are going home to visit their parents, Lord and Lady Thornbuckle.  Ronnie is none too pleased with the whole thing and lets his aunt know that in no uncertain terms.  He is also piqued at having to dress for dinner and at the prospect of having to actually ride a horse.    Heris learns that she will command the crew and that Bates will command the staff, including the cook and gardener.  When Heris meets the crew, she is less than impressed by the pilot, but the navigator first, Sirkin, seems to be outstanding.  A difference of opinion arises between the two concerning the degree of risk that is acceptable in a civilian yacht and Heris learns that the former captain made wide detours around certain hazards.  When she checks the crew records, she finds that most of them are second-raters and, when she contacts the hiring agency, she learns that the first-raters are mostly reserved for critical positions on large commercial ships rather than private yachts.      Enroute to Sirialis for the fox hunting season, one of the yacht's moles -- environmental techs -- is killed and another injured by lethal gasses released when they open a sulfur scrubber.  If they had been wearing complete environmental suits, as required by ship regulations, neither would have been hurt.  Since the system proves to be greatly impaired, the Sweet Delight is diverted to Takomin Roads for a full environmental refit as well as an inquest on the dead crewman.  When the refit crew checks out the removed portions of the scrubber, they discover something that does not belong there.    This novel sets the tone for the series and it is very British, with dashing young heroes, dinner parties, fox hunting and nepotism.  Lady Cecelia starts as a typical British aunt, strict and no nonsense, but proves to be a level-headed, intelligent, and flexible woman.  She adopts Heris as a sort of god-niece and they learn from each other.  The author certainly creates great characters and she allows them to develop in a very natural manner.    This series is quite similar in tone and ambiance to the Sassinak series written with McCaffrey and Nye and is also more about relationships than action.    Recommended for Moon fans and anyone who enjoys space adventures with a touch of Treasure Island.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-03-19
1188452:US	49390985	R3CH4ZENWQJ3RS	0312874499	545337496	For Love and Glory	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Daughter To Make a Father Proud	For Love and Glory is a novel about the forerunners and human tenacity.  Lissa Davysdaughter Windholm of Asborg is a specialist on wilderness survival.  On Jonna with a planetological team, she and her companion, Karl, a sauroid from Garganthua, track down unannounced visitors in a wilderness camp.  There she finds Torben Hebo and his partner, Dzesi, an anthropard from Rikha, studying a forerunner artifact in the nearby river.  Lissa and Karl are invited into the camp for talk and refreshments and learn that Torben and Dzesi are freelance entrepreneurs gathering information to sell.  Since Jonna is an unclaimed planet and the pair are harming neither the relic nor the habitat, Lissa and Karl just enjoy the company.  Later, Karl saves both Torben and Dzesi from drowning when the river rises unexpectedly.  Everything is congenial until Torben makes a brash pass at Lissa and is ordered to desist at pistol point.<br />Thereafter, Torben and Dzesi go off to sell their information and then they part company, both returning to their homelands:  Dzesi to Ghazu on Rikha and Torben to Earth.  After 900 years of life, Torben is beginning to have memory problems and other symptoms of information overload.  He needs to have his memories edited and Earth has the best technology of that sort in the known galaxy.  Not only can the memories be removed, but the Earth technology can store the deleted memories for subsequent perusal.<br />When the survey of Jonna is terminated, Jonna and Karl also part, with Karl returning to Garguantua and Lissa to Asborg.  There she rests for a while and then becomes involved in a speculative voyage to unclaimed space to investigate a report of long-term, large-scale and secret scientific examination of seemingly empty space by the Great Confederacy, the largest Susaian government.<br />When Torben leaves Earth, he travels to Asborg with intentions of visiting Lissa, learns of her investigative voyage, but finds that she has returned and left once more for a five year study of Jonna.  Nevertheless, he stays in the Sunniva system and finds investors to bankroll a commercial development on Freydis, the sunward planet from Asborg.  Moreover, he has a long-range plan for further investigation of the forerunners.<br />This story is most clearly an Anderson tale.  It has the characteristic courage, brashness and technology, yet also the optimism and wonder of such stories.  In one respect, however, this novel is not typical:  the main character, Lissa, is very naive about the wickedness of mankind.  Most of Anderson's characters are rather cynical in addition to the previously mentioned attributes.  Such cynicism comes from experience and Lissa, despite her own beliefs, has been protected very thoroughly by her family and society.  Thus, she has several rude shocks within this story, but is strong enough to carry on anyway.  <br />This new approach to a female character, and her father, very probably reflects the author's own experience raising his daughter.  Having been in the same situation, I can attest that such experience causes a man to see women from an entirely different viewpoint, which goes very much beyond the stereotypical overprotective father archetype.  Somehow, I think this is a last message of love from the author to his daughter.<br />Recommended for Anderson fans and anyone who still enjoys a sense of wonder and adventure in a SF setting.	2003-03-19
1189507:US	49390985	R61EYJ779A2GA	0743435524	829919387	Heris Serrano	Books	5	75	77	N	N	Captain Heris Serrano, Sweet Delight	Heris Serrano (2002) is an omnibus edition of the first three novels in the Familias Regnant series, including [[ASIN:1857238818 Hunting Party]], [[ASIN:1857238826 Sporting Chance]], and [[ASIN:185723880X Winning Colors]].  Heris is a Commander in the Regular Space Service when she is framed and set up to be court-martialed, but takes the offer to resign instead.  She accepts an interim job as the captain of a private yacht while she searches for a way to be reinstated.  As a scion of a multi-generation RSS family, Heris has not had much contact with the ruling families and encounters a number of surprises.  Moreover, there is more widespread corruption within the RSS than she expected.    In Hunting Party (1993), Heris gets the job as the captain of Lady Cecelia's yacht, the Sweet Delight, with six guests aboard at family insistence.  Heris will command the crew and Bates will command the staff, including the cook and gardener.  The first voyage will be to Sirialis for the fox hunting season.  On the way, Heris learns that all is not well with the ship and crew.    In Sporting Chance (1994), the Sweet Delight returns to Rockhouse with the heir apparent aboard, along with various bodyguards and several crew replacements.  The prince seems to be a little slow and Lady Cecelia brings this to the King's attention.  The navigator, Sirkin, is outstanding, but wants to be with her lover, Amalie, who is by no means exceptional;  Heris hires Amalie as general labor on a 30 day contract, hoping that she will shape up or that Sirkin will wise up.  On top of all this, Heris expects troubles from smugglers due to events in the last voyage.    In Winning Colors (1995), Heris gets two temporary crewmates aboard the Sweet Delight:  Brun as a favor to Lord Thornbuckle and Koutsoudas as a favor to Arash Livadhi, a RSS captain and former classmate.  Moreover, a court has decided that Heris now owns the yacht despite Lady Cecelia having recovered from her rejuvenation difficulties.  Furthermore, Lady Cecelia decides to visit the Xavier system just as the Compassionate Hand is raiding the planet.    Winning Colors provides the first appearance of Esmay Suiza, the senior surviving officer of the RSS Despite after the crew has learned that the former captain was a traitor and mutinied against her.  Her actions in the Xavier system lead to Esmay becoming the main character in the next book of the series, Once a Hero.    This series is very British in tone, with dashing young heroes, dinner parties and fox hunting.   However, some of the dashing heroes are young women: Esmay, of course, but also Brun in another way.  However, the mixture of bumbling and competence would be unbelievable if not for historical precedent;  the British are famous for the success of its talented amateurs.  Nevertheless, it is the professionals of the RSS that provide the solid core of competence in this series.    This series illustrates the author's talent at characterization as well as her understanding of both surface and spatial combat.  The contrast with the technological level of the Paksennarion series is great, but the characterization is just as interesting.  This series, however, is quite similar in tone and ambiance to the Sassinak series written with McCaffrey and Nye.    Recommended for Moon fans and anyone who enjoys space adventures with both covert operations and spatial combat.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-03-18
1189585:US	49390985	R3T4RFQHRZHUGS	0380978997	195350751	Acorna's Rebels	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A Conspiracy Against Cats	Acorna's Rebels is the sixth novel in the Acorna series, following Acorna's Search.  In the previous volume, Acorna has found a hidden city on Vhiliinyar where she was transported to the past.  While she was away, her mate Aari has also traveled back in time searching for her and was still gone when she returned to the present.<br />In this novel, Acorna is spending her time refining and re-refining the design for restoration of Vhiliinyar while waiting for Aari to return.  Jonas and Roadkill, the Makahomian temple cat, convince her to relax a little and accompany them back to the Moon of Opportunity to visit their friends.  Once there, Hafiz talks Acorna into visiting Nirii as an emissary of the Linyaari to solicit additional help in restoring Vhiliinyar and, incidentally, to take the Wats (unicorn hunters from ancient times) away from his wife, Karina.  They also persuade Nadhari to go along to provide security.<br />While enroute to Nirii in Condor, Jonas' conglomerate of a ship, RK bumps the warp controls and sends them to an unexpected destination.  In the emergency, the warp computer and long range communicator have been rendered inoperative and they are forced to send out a mayday signal.  They are rescued by an agricultural implements saleman, Scaradine MacDonald, who tows them to the nearest repair yard with his tractor beam.  By some odd chance, this yard is located on Nadhari's home planet, Makahomia, and there they are introduced to Nadhari's cousin, Mulzar Edo Kando sach Pilau dom Mog-Gim, Temporal Ruler of the City of Hassim and the Mog-Dim Plateau.  Nadhari is not very pleased to see her cousin and subsequent events show that he is not very popular with his subjects either.<br />Soon Acorna learns that the Makahomian temple cats in the city are dying of a mysterious plague and quickly visits the temple to save four of them.  However, the plague seems to be spreading elsewhere on the planet and infecting other animals and even people.  Acorna is determined to use her healing talents wherever they are needed, but soon learns that Mulzar is trying to use these talents to justify a war of conquest to bring the rest of the planet under his rule.  Moreover, Acorna is having dreams of Aari in connection with Makahomia itself.<br />Another complication is the harsh penalties against the possession of temple cats outside the temples.  While RK has been thought to be a temple cat, it quickly becomes obviously that he is a prime specimen of the breed and therefore jailbait for Jonas and company if RK is discovered aboard.  However, RK has his own agenda and is able to come and go as he pleases, despite every effort to restrict him.  Moreover, RK decides that now is the time to initiate telepathic contact with Acorna, so that she can be aware of his desires while away from his presence.  For a change, RK's efforts to repopulate the planet with his own progeny is greatly appreciated by a people deprived of so many of their own temple cats.<br />This story is a pleasure to read.  While it doesn't require any heavy cogitation, it will keep the reader enthralled for several hour and leave a pleasant emotional aftereffect.<br />Recommended for McCaffrey & Scarborough fans and anyone who enjoys light SF entertainment with a positive ending.	2003-03-18
1193303:US	49390985	RS06NMH2XOU0F	0345406222	88668869	First to Fight (Starfist, Book 1)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	It Still Takes a Marine	First to Fight (1997) is the first novel in the StarFIST series.  The 31st Fleet Initial Strike Team is issued a new item of equipment, a Universal Positionator Up-Down link, that will replace the radios, geo position locators, and vector computers throughout the companies.  The UPUD has been field tested only at Aberdeen, but passed with flying color.  When Gunnery Sergeant Charlie Bass questions such tests and suggests that his company take its current equipment along as backup, he is told that the company has been ordered to immediately turn in all of it.  In the field, the UPUDs don't work as advertised, resulting in a number of unnecessary deaths.  Back at the base, Bass thoroughly damages the company rep, Daryl George, before he is pulled off.  Daryl drops charges against Charlie when told his company could be charged with criminal negligence due to his misrepresentations.  Charlie, however, is convicted of conduct unbecoming a noncommissioned officer, demoted one level, and re-assigned to the 34th FIST.    In this novel, Joseph F. Dean joins the Confederation Marine Corps and is sent to the training planet, Arsenault.  After many weeks in Boot Camp and Advanced Infantry Training, Dean is assigned to the 34th FIST on Thorsfinni's World, with Charlie as his platoon sergeant.  His first liberty is even more exciting than the training courses.  And then the 34st is sent to Elneal to provide humanitarian aid.    This novel gets off to a slow start after the initial UPUD fiasco (which most ex-service types will find familiar -- except Charlie gets in a few good licks), dwelling on the nature and peculiarities of military training, Marine style, but starts picking up the pace after Dean arrives on Thorsfinni's World.  The other characters -- McNeal, Chan, Claypoole, Schultz, etc. -- are probably composite archetypes based on people the authors have known;  nobody could be such a total goofball as Claypoole seems in his first appearance.    This series concentrates on the riots, raids, insurrections, and other relatively small incidents handled mostly by the Marines in our own history.  Although the Marines have always been involved in the larger conflicts,  the FISTs are the kind of ready deployment force that is the first to fight in most smaller actions.  And, in this novel, they soon find themselves in a nasty fight.    Some reviewers have wondered why the Marines are not equipped with more futuristic weapons.  First, the Navy has the planet-busters if these become necessary.  Second, the Army has the tactical nukes, heavy artillery, and heavy tanks if these become necessary.  Third, there are people who want to continue living on the planet after the Armed Forces leave. Thus, the Confederation sends in the Marines, light infantry capable of maneuvering in virtually any terrain and armed with weapons capable of taking out anything they face.  Minimum force for maximum effect.    Recommended for Sherman & Cragg fans and anyone who enjoys small-unit combat in a SF setting.	2003-03-15
1196214:US	49390985	R487FUNR0VV1U	0345443748	629151216	Onslaught (Demontech, Book 1)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Brains and Brawn On a Long Trek, Part One	Onslaught (2002) is the first novel of the Demontech series.  On a world elsewhere in the multiverse, the human inhabitants share the planet with little folks and other magical beings, whom they call demons.  In Jokapcul, Lord Lackland, the Dark Prince of Matilda, calls upon the demons to bring him knowledge of war and is answered with a stack of US Army Field Manuals.  On the same night, in Frangeria, a philosopher calls upon the demons to show their existence, but his pronunciation is bad and the demons think he is asking for leadership, and is answered with a US Marine Gunnery Sergeant in full dress uniform.    After the magicians of Jokapcul comprehend the contents of the field manuals, they undertake the invasion of New Bally, a freeport adjacent to the Duchy of Bostia.  There they encountered the Frangerian sea soldiers called Marines.      Haft and Spinner are having port liberty when they are awakened in the night by very agitated women who insist that they must leave NOW.  When Spinner learns that the Jokapcul have invaded, he takes Haft with him out into the night.  As they cautiously move toward the sounds of battle, they find a unit of Jokapcul light infantry with prisoners, one of which is Rammer, their lead sergeant.  Before they can think of a way to free him, Rammer silently mouths the word \\"Go\\".    Haft and Spinner then sneak to the docks and board their ship, take weapons, equipment and the manual Lord Gunny Says, and then return to the town.  There they note the strength with which the prisoners, including their fellow marines, are guarded and reluctantly conclude that they will not be able to free them.  Then they encounter an old man who is a former Frangerian Sea Soldier called Tiger.  He feeds them and shows them a concealed way to get to the forest outside the walls.  As they leave, they promise him to return with an army to free New Bally.     Haft and Spinner must return to Frangeria to warn them of the invasion, but to reach their nation they must travel across the continent and then over the Inner Ocean.  As they walk through the tunnel that is the first leg of the journey, Spinner wonders why he has promised Tiger to return.    This novel is, in an entertaining way, a demonstration of the large difference between information and knowledge.  US Army field manuals contain general information that should be taught to every soldier, but US Marine Gunnery Sergeants contain additional knowledge learned from their own predecessors as well as actual field experience.  While the Jokapcul have read the books, the Frangerian Marines have been taught by a man who knows his trade thoroughly, including the parts that never get into the books.    This novel is similar in plot to the Mardukan March series by Weber & Ringo, a trek across land and sea, and some of the characters are also similar to Haft and Spinner, but the details are greatly different since there are only two marines, not a company.  Thus, as another reviewer pointed out, this is an escape and evasion story with elements of a loooong range patrol returning with vital intelligence, much like most of the action in Saberhagen's The Broken Lands in the Empire of the East series.    The characters themselves were obviously chosen to be as fully opposite in personality as would be allowed in a military service.  Haft is the impulsive one who acts before thinking very much and Spinner is the pensive one for thinks too much before acting.  Haft thinks Spinner is too proud of his brains and Spinner thinks Haft is too proud of his muscles.  However, they make a good team, often correcting each other's mistakes, but it is fortunate that Haft's first reaction to dangerous surprises is a hard stroke of his axe.      Recommended for Sherman fans and anyone else who enjoys infantry combat in a fantasy setting.	2003-03-12
1197620:US	49390985	R2CU34GBMRFQL6	0380807831	978347759	Code of Conduct	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A Futuristic Mystery with a Mysterious Investigator	Code of Conduct is the first novel of the Jani Kilian series.  Captain Jani Kilian is Two of Six, the Eyes and Ears, one of the six humans who have graduated from the ideomeni Academy, and then she was assigned as a United Services documents control officer in the embassy at Rauta Sheraa, the idomeni godly capital.  She was severely injured in the explosion of a transport on the launching pad and, during the night of the long knives when the Vynsh clan became the Vynshrau, the ruling clan, her body was secretly rebuilt by three wild-eyed, genius doctors in the embassy basement.  The Service has issued a warrant for her arrest for her alleged misdeeds prior to the explosion and she has been avoiding official notice since recovering from her injuries.    In this novel, Jani has been working as an unregistered documents tech on Whalen's Planet under an assumed name.  There she hears the announcement that the ideomeni have re-established diplomatic relations with the Commonwealth and then discovers that a \\"jammin\\" blonde has been asking about her.  She immediately takes steps to abandon the planet, but is caught at home by Evan van Reuter, the Commonwealth Interior Minister and her former lover in Rauta Sheraa.  He wants her to return to Earth with him to investigate the death of his wife.      On the voyage back, Jani meets two members of his staff, Durian Ridgeway, his Documents chief, and Angevin Wyle, his deputy and Hansen Wyle's daughter.  Hansen was One of Six, the Tongue of Gold, another of the six humans at the ideomeni academy, but he had ben killed during the Vynsh assault on Rauta Sheraa.      Jani also meets Lucien Pascal posing as her stewart.  When they reach Earth, Jani is given an official position -- and office -- and access to the document files.  However, she spends more time discussing the case with her fellow workers and others who had known Lyssa.  She also forges a relationship with Lucien despite his \\"official\\" status as the Exterior Minister's lover.    This novel is a futuristic murder mystery in a society which has been transformed by contact with the ideomeni.  One of the side plots is her relationship with Egri niRau Tsecha, the spiritual leader of the Vynshrau and the ideomeni ambassador to Earth.  Tsecha has proclaimed that the humans and ideomeni will become one hybrid people and predicts that Jani will become the catalyst for this change.  Jani wants nothing to do with this prophecy of hybridization, especially since she herself is a hybrid of sorts, with ideomeni flesh merged with her own body to heal her wounds.    Although many of the concepts have been used before, this novel is highly original in its ambiance and character.  The details do make a difference and, in this case, the details are fascinating.  Like most mystery novels, this story starts in the middle, with the earlier events gradually being exposed as the story progresses.  However, it is seldom that the investigator is the one with the most secrets, but it does occur that way every now and then, especially in SF settings.    Recommended for anyone who enjoys tales of contact with alien societies in a sophisticated milieu.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-03-11
1197819:US	49390985	RY8KZM8DXEQI1	0312856083	417800708	Voodoo Child	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Voodoo in Nola, With a Twist	Voodoo Child (1998) is the third novel in a series of urban fantasies based on different magic traditions, but with a twist.  Moreover, these stories are all hard-boiled mysteries.  This novel invokes the tradition of Voodoun and Santeria.    Lia St. Charles is a New Orleans probation-parole officer who has Shane LaFitte among her parolees.  Shane is a houngan, a Voudoun priest from Haiti, where he had been a friend of Jorge Arnez, a priest of Santeria and much more accomplished in his craft than Shane.     After several years, Shane begins to accept that his friend has become endiosados -- self-deified -- extending his studies to more powerful magics based on black witchcraft and ultimately gaining the power to enslave the mind of others.  When the santero leaves Haiti, Shane and his wife, Anise, make arrangements to follow Arnez to the United States.    In New Orleans, Arnez is known as Mal Sangre and is the head of a powerful criminal organization.   When Shane confronts him, Arnez gains control of his mind and forces him to kill his wife.  When Shane is found with his wife's body, he is sentenced to 25 years in the state prison, but is let out after five years.  Returning to Nola, Shane finds Arnez to be even more powerful and now planning a sacrifice to enable him to become a god.    When Shane tells his parole officer, Lia, that he is on a mission to save the world from an evil sorcerer, she doesn't believe a word of it.  After Shane is found with a fired pistol in his hand, Lia sends him back to prison for violation of parole.  Later, Lia is to learn that Shane was toning down the truth, but by then she was in too deep to back out.    Recommended for Reaves fans and anyone who enjoys tales of tracking down criminals who are using exotic and evil magic.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-03-11
1198188:US	49390985	R1MVOE0X6X7YZU	0152045627	408310979	A Wizard Alone: The Sixth Book in the Young Wizards Series	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Life Goes On, Especially For Wizards	A Wizard Alone (2002) is the sixth novel in the Young Wizards series, following The Wizard's Dilemma.  In the previous volume, Nita's mother is diagnosed with a brain tumor and Nita searches for some way to cure the illness using wizardry, but to no avail.  The Lone Power tries to tempt her into a pact, but Nita's mother herself intervenes to help Nita to deny the enemy.  During this time, Kit is mostly ignored by Nita and spends his time observing his dog, Ponch, who is displaying remarkable abilities, including talents for walking between dimensions and for finding things.    In this book, Tom offers Kit an assignment to discover why a promising youngster, Darryl, hasn't completed his ordeal after three months.  Normally young wizard candidates are left alone during their ordeal, but this candidate is unusual in that he is autistic, so his mental condition may have caused some hang-up.  Tom wants Kit to only observe and interfere as little as possible.  Kit watches Darryl at school from a distance at first, but soon he and Ponch slip into the classroom with an invisibility spell and Ponch helps Kit to get into Darryl's private universe.  There they discover that Darryl seems to be perfectly normal in most respects, but is having encounter after encounter with the Lone Power.  Kit also senses that Darryl has passed his ordeal some time ago, but doesn't know it.  Moreover, this incarnation of the Lone Power seems to be frustrated for some reason.    Nita is having a hard time keeping her family from falling apart from grief after her mother's death, yet the struggle is helping her to keep herself functional.  Initially her father hated to go to bed alone and now he hates to wake up in the bed alone.  Her sister, Dairine, hates to go to school and face the pity of her peers.  Everything reminds them of the missing member of the family.  Nita is meeting regularly with a school counselor and benefiting from the chance to talk about her grief as well as some specific words of advice.  Dairine, however, has been assigned a newly graduated counselor who apparently has expunged all memories of childhood and adolescent from her brain.      When Kit tries asks for her help as backup, Nita demurs since she is very uncertain of her stability at that moment.  Nevertheless, Nita is having a series of strange dreams that appear to have something to do with Darryl.  Then Nita tries to contact Kit, but he is unavailable at the moment;  apparently he is in another universe at that time, so Nita reckons that he is walking the dimensions looking for Darryl.  However, when Nita learns that Kit had traveled to Darryl's private universe in his sleep, she begins to worry that Kit is being overcome by Darryl's unusual powers and makes arrangements with Ponch -- the dog is able to talk to her telepathically -- to be notified the next time Kit visits Darryl.  However, Kit is pulled away suddenly and Ponch barely has time to go with him.    This novel is another tale filled with real life concerns and relationships, especially between these young wizards and their respective sisters;  I particularly enjoyed Carmela's reaction to the alien shopping channel on the magically enhanced TV.  However, the wizardry is an integral part of the story;  only a wizard could visit Darryl in his universe -- i.e., mind -- and probably only a wizard would have the strength and talents to create a normal enclave within his own autistic brain.    Recommended for Duane fans and anyone who enjoys young people discovering the universe, especially in a magical setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-03-11
1198733:US	49390985	R71NHHBJF3RO3	0345303830	497945266	The Gallatin Divergence	Books	5	21	21	N	N	For Want of a Word	The Gallatin Divergence is the fifth novel written in the Confederacy series, but the sixth in chronological sequence according to my reckoning, which is subject to change as I re-read the series and Smith turns out new books.  Prior to this novel, Edward William Bear (the one from the USA timeline) and Clarissa MacDougal Olson Bear have moved to the Second Asteroid Belt and established a homestead, where they practiced their professions and raised their daughters.  Now their daughters are away on the Tom Paine Maru and Clarissa has acquired a fatal disease on a mercy mission to a ravaged timeline.  Since the disease was incurable at the time, Win and Clarissa have themselves placed in stasis to wait for a cure.    In this novel, Win is awakened by Lucille Gallagos Kropotkin to take on a mission to prevent a Hamiltonian agent from going back in time to kill Albert Gallatin, founding father of the Confederacy timeline.  Edna Janof, a staunch Hamiltonian, has somehow survived her presumed death in an aircar crash -- helped by gunfire from Win and friends -- and has commissioned Hirnschlag von Ochskahrt, a competent if not brilliant physicist, to invent a time machine, then stepped into the past, leaving Hirnschlag manacled to a bench with three metric pounds of plastique on time delay.  Fortunately, he escaped but the time machine and the laboratory itself were destroyed.  Oolorie P'wheet, the theoretical physicist porpoise, determines the space/time coordinates of the time broach and builds another to send back a rescue party -- for Gallatin, not Janof.    Clad in faux buckskins over a 22nd century thin-skin suit, carrying an imitation \\"Kentucky\\" rifle with a Heller Effect stasis beam, and bearing an anachronistic Bowie knife,  Win steps into the 18th century and immediately stumbles over Hirnschlag, dropping pots, pans, powder horns, and knives all over the place.  After this auspicious start, Win and friends -- Ed (his Confederacy doppelganger), Lucy and Hirnschlag-- make their way to an observation point on Bower Hill, each loaded with essential supplies and equipment, include Hirnschlag's cello.  From there, they watch the crucial events leading to the Whiskey Rebellion and keep watch for Edna Janof.    The following chapters portray a version of the actual events of that time, up to a point of divergence at Braddock's Field.  Like all reenactments, the minor details are fictional, yet reasonably consistent with written accounts and the customs of that time.  Both the Rebels and the Federalists come across as mostly long-winded and indecisive, with some exceptions such as John Baldwin and Alexander Hamilton.  The Rebels have meeting after meeting until the critical council where only the (fictional) intervention of Albert Gallatin focuses the issue on the illegal (in the alternate timeline) nature of the Constitution as designed by the Federalists.      In the Confederacy timeline, Thomas Jefferson used the phrase \\"the unanimous consent of the governed\\" in the Declaration of Independence, differing thereby from the corresponding phrase in this timeline only by the word \\"unanimous\\".  An armed rebellion of citizens, Gallatin pointed out, was prima facie evidence of lack of unanimity and thus the illegality of the revenue act.    This novel fills in the backstory of the Confederacy, but also illustrates the author's cynicism and sense of humor.  The chapter heading are modifications of well-known phrases -- e.g., The Bombs of August -- and the situations have more than a modicum of slapstick -- e.g., Win has an overfull bladder and a gunpowder bomb with a short fuse rolls in...what to do? -- but the premeditated topper is the list of Confederacy presidents, including Harriet Beecher, H.L. Mencken and A. Rand.  It is wordy -- Win Bear's stream of consciousness is like the Mississippi river:  wide and winding;  also windy as Chicago on a bad day -- but still fun.  Don't read this book if you are a no nonsense, straight to the point type, but Faulkner fans will feel at home with the style if not the content.    Recommended for Smith fans and anyone who likes SF adventure stories with political sidebars.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-03-11
1200503:US	49390985	RO29TCQG63OTY	0441005268	623794906	Officer-cadet (Dirigent Mercenary Corps)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Long Job Interview	Officer-Cadet (1998) is the first novel in the Dirigent Mercenary Corps series. Lon Nolan is willingly expelled from the North American Military Academy on trumped up charges, but pursues his military vocation among the DMC.    In this novel, Lon becomes an Officer-Cadet in the Second Squad, Third Platoon, A Company, Second Battalion, Seventh Regiment of the DMC. He will be nothing but a glorified grunt until he has survived combat; after that, he will be either discharged or given a commission. In the meantime, he being rotated around the various staff positions when not training with the rest of his unit.    After a few months, Second Battalion is sent on contract to Norbank to put down a rebellion and to train the colonial militia. The available intelligence is woefully inadequate and, after arrival, found to be very much out of date. The rebels have obtained military grade weapons and are resolute but relatively unskilled fighters. The colonial militia is greatly outnumbered, poorly armed, and besieged in the capital city, so they expect the DMC troopers to do most of the fighting. The DMC, however, concentrates on training the available colonial manpower to beef up the city perimeter and to support any offensive initiated by the DMC.    The Third Platoon has made initial contact with the Norbanker HQ in the city and therefore is tasked with bringing out a company's worth of barely trained men to rendezvous with shuttles outside the city to obtain their arms and equipment. The rest of the battalion creates a diversion as they are brought out. At the LZ, the battalion provides a quick briefing on using the weapons and then moves further away from the city. There the battalion digs in for a while and provides the Norbankers with two hours of concentrated training on their weapons and simple tactics. The intent is to infiltrate the Norbankers back into the city that evening, but enroute the battalion gets into a firefight with the rebels forces.    This novel is about ground combat in the colonial worlds of the 29th century. It is relatively low-tech compared to the military forces of Earth and the older colonies of that period and the DMC space forces function primarily as transportation and overhead intelligence.    Recommended for Shelley fans and anyone who enjoys ground combat in a SF setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-03-09
1200830:US	49390985	R2KGFV7CWOKLJA	0441002927	49588169	The Buchanan Campaign	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The War Comes to Buchanan	The Buchanan Campaign (1995) is the first military SF novel in the Second Commonwealth series.  The Confederation of Planets claims hegemony over all human worlds and thus is offically in a state of war with all independent planets.  Heretofore, the war has been more ideological than active, but recently the Federation has attacked the Second Commonwealth at Camerein.  Buchanan is an independent world in the space between these governments and now the war has come to it.    In this novel, Doug Weintraub is out hunting when flashes and sonic booms in the sky cause him to return to his home and set up a comlink with the other six commissioners.  They are informed that Federation troops have landed and are advancing upon Sam and Max, the two small cities of Buchanan.  Then one of the commissioners is captured by the Federation soldiers.  Doug leaves the conference and launches the emergency message rocket in his barn to report the problem to the Second Commonwealth and then takes to the hills with his hunting gear.  Later, he gathers together a few other men and they plant exposive charges on the Federation shuttles parked at the spaceport.    When the Buchanan message rocket arrives in the Buckingham system, the Second Commonwealth promply sends the Second Regiment of the Royal Marines to Buchanan.  The HMS Sheffield and her escorts arrive two weeks after the shuttle sabotage and immediately attack the single Federation Cutter-class warship in orbit around Buchanan.  Despite all efforts to intercept the ship, it manages to transit to Q-space and flee the system.  This establishes a time limit on clearing out the Federation ground troops, for the escaped ship will surely bring rapid reinforcement by the Federation.      The marines are landed by shuttle and surround the area containing Sam, Max, and the spaceport.  As they land, the Federation troops quickly turn off their helmet electronics to eliminate their obvious signatures and then relocate to other positions, sothe Commonwealth marines do not know the present location of the enemy.  The Intelligence & Reconnaissance platoon sends out patrols to try to locate the estimated battalion of enemy soldiers in the area and one such patrol walks into an ambush.  As they return fire, another party -- the Buchanan group -- also takes the Federation troops under fire.    After an air assault and ground reinforcements take out the Federation unit, the leader of the marine patrol, Sergeant David Spencer, takes the Buchanan irregulars back to the I&R platoon and introduces Doug to the regimental commander.  They feed and outfit Doug's men and make arrangements to scatter them as local liaison among the various marine units.  This willing cooperation by the Buchanan men greatly pleases the political liaison, Prince William, since it should facilitate a longer range association with the Second Commonwealth.    Needless to say, the Federation reinforcements arrive at some point and make life difficult for the Commonwealth marines.  A goodly amount of ground fighting ensues, as well as close support missions from the fighter craft.  There is also some spatial combat, but the point of view mostly follows the I&R platoon.    This series concentrates on ground warfare and taking back ground without rendering it uninhabitable.  Therefore, it mostly consists of conventional warfare with relatively low-tech, and reliable, weapons and protective gear.  There are no power suits in this series nor any use of armor per se.  Of course, the same was true in Viet Nam; since one RPQ could take out a tank at little cost, the tanks were seldom used in wild areas and never used off the roads in the Delta (an M-48 in a rice paddy often became a submarine -- that is, an underwater vehicle).  Some were used in Cambodia, which is not as boggy, and in the dryer northern zone where the North Vietnamese Army initiated tank attacks during the Tet offensives.      Recommended for Shelley fans and anyone who enjoys small-unit combat stories in a SF setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-03-09
1202521:US	49390985	RSSSVJFVXG9T2	0553578073	225750695	The Dark Glory War (A Prelude to the DragonCrown War Cycle)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	An Ominous Beginning	The Dark Glory War is a prequel to the Dragoncrown War series.  It occurs decades before the Dragoncrown War itself.    In this novel, Tarrant Hawkins, Rounce Playfair, Bosleigh Norrington, and Naysmith Carver are eighteen years old Oriosan lads and have received their first adult mask;  now they are on display before the Societies and are selected by one for a survival ordeal.  After being dropped off in the wilderness without weapons, the four are making their way back to Valsina when they encounter and kill a temeryx.  Leigh runs for help while Tarrant and Nay drag out the wounded Rounce on a travois.  When the rescuers find them, Rounce is taken back to town and the other three join the hunt for the remaining frostclaws.  After catching up to the pack, they find that it also includes gibberkin and is lead by a vylaen, all creatures of Chytrine, the tyrant of the north.    These deeds lead to the induction of Tarrant, Leigh and Nay into the Knights of the Phoenix, a Great Society dedicated to the preservation of civilization.  They are admitted as Minor Fledglings, skipping the rank of Hatchling, a great honor indeed.  They soon find that Lord Norrington, Leigh's father, is a fellow member of the Society, as is Tarrant's father.  Rounce has been severely wounded in the leg by the temeryx and will never become a warrior, so he has not been inducted into the Society with his friends.    These deeds also entitle the three to be included in a mission to warn the Oriosan court.  Since the Queen has left Meredo to attend the international Harvest Festival, the group will have to journey to Yslin, capital of Alcida.  On the way, they are followed by gibberkin and barricade themselves in the ruins of Atval, a city destroyed by dragons.  There Leigh finds, or is found by, the magical sword Temmer.    This story tells of the meeting between Tarrant and Resolute, the Vorquellyn elf, and the battle with Chytrine's creatures.  It ends with the destruction of the old sullanciri and the making of the new.    Recommended for Stackpole fans and anyone who enjoys well crafted sword and sorcery epics.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-03-07
1203506:US	49390985	R3OCC531DPDI6Q	0441008348	529833578	Holding the Line (Spec Ops Squad)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Mixed Bag of Grunts	Holding the Line (2001) is the first novel in the Spec Ops Squad series.  During the war with the Ilion Federation, Bart Drak is the squad leader of a special ops squad in the Ranger Battalion of the 1st Combined Regiment, a unit including every species in the Alliance of Light.    In this novel, Bart has just returned from Dintsen, where his ranger battalion has been mauled by the surprise attack that started the war with the Ilion.  Since the unit was on Dintsen only for joint training with a divotect battalion, the casualty rate in his unit was very high -- 75% dead -- and even worse among the divotect.  Bart is training infantry recruits at Fort Campbell when he is pulled out of the field to meet Major Wellman, the battalion commander, to be informed that he has volunteered for the 1st Combined Regiment.  As usual, he and Wellman get thoroughly irritated at each other.    Bart's orders say that he is to report for transport to Dancer, a previously uninhabited world in the middle of nowhere.  There he meets his squad:  Lance Corporal Fred Wilkins, the only other human; Corporal Ying'vi Souvana and Lance Corporal Trau'vi Kiervauna, the porracci; Privates Iyi Col Hihi and Oyo Col Hihi, the biraunta; Private Jaibie, the abarand; Private Ooyonoa, the divotect; and Privates Fang and Claw, the ghuroh (whose real names are impossible to spell or to pronounce).  Although Bart has been warned that porracci are aggressive and replace their superiors through trial by combat, he is not told that biraunta are terrified of porracci.  Moreover, the ghuroh do not even arrive until the eleventh week of training.    The regiment's first assignment is to take back Dintsen from the Ilion Federation.  They will be reinforced with a porracci battalion and two additional mobile artillery batteries, but they will face an estimated six battalions of combat troops, mostly tonatin.  They are already outnumbered six-to-five going in, not counting the defenders advantage in a spaceborne assault.    This novel portrays future warfare from the point of view of the men who fight and die in the war zones.  The author has at least a nodding acquaintance with military terminology and practices, but I can't find any mentions of military service in his (rather short) bio.  In any case, he makes this story come alive;  you feel like you are serving at Bart's side in garrison and in combat.    Recommended for Shelley fans and anyone who enjoys small-unit combat SF stories.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-03-07
1204850:US	49390985	RG4EYDU2NF8NO	0671318411	492552666	A Hymn Before Battle (Posleen War Series #1)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A War of the People	A Hymn Before Battle (2000) is the first novel in the Legacy of the Alldenata series.  The Federation is losing its battle against the rapacious Posleen and the Darhel finally decide to turn to the humans on Earth for help.  Some believe that the cost to them will be very high.    In this novel, Michael O'Neal, an Atlanta web page designer and science fiction writer, is told by his former Army boss to report to Fort MacPherson on Monday morning;  he is being borrowed by the US Army for an unspecified task.  He begins to comprehend the importance of the task when the team is briefed by the Chief of Naval Operations.  They are informed that the Earth has made first contact with friendly aliens who want human assistance in the war against the Posleen.  In exchange for that help, they will provide financial and technical knowledge and some hardware against the day that the Posleen attack Earth...in about five years.  Everyone on the team is recalled into active duty and Mike is also offered a commission.  After accepting, Mike is tasked with equipping a special operations team with appropriate galactic technology to support a recon mission against the Posleen.    Command Sergeant Major Jacob Mosovich is told to report to Vice Chief of Staff Trayner for briefing on a mission for unspecified reconnaissance in hostile territory and environment outside CONUS;  while meeting with the General, he is introduced to Himmit Rigas, an oversized frog with four eyes, who had been hanging unobserved on a side wall for hours.  Jake finds himself is charge of planning the recon mission and promptly co-opts SFC Ersin to assist him.  Their insertion point is an unsecured area on Barwhon V, a planet under attack by the Posleen.    Shortly thereafter, the President informs the nation of the nature of the enemy and presents a tape of a multinational effort to make peaceful contact with the Posleen.  Only the enemy and the information transmitted offworld survived this contact.    While thisnovel contains some spatial combat, the bulk of the story is about ground combat.  The enemy has only a few types of weapons, but each of these is superior to the human equivalent.  Although the GalTech weapons are superior to that of the enemy, the humans do not have them in large numbers.  The infrastructure is being built as rapidly as possible, but will not be able to equip enough troops with the new weapons before the enemy's first strike.  The enemy will attack in overwhelming numbers and will shoot down any plane or missile that comes into line of sight, so nuclear weapons will be difficult to deploy.      Earth will have to use superior strategy and tactics in order to win, but they also have another advantage:  the Posleen are mostly followers rather than leaders and not too comfortable in unexpected situations, but the humans have an abundance of leaders who readily invent new tactics whenever possible.    This novel owes much to Heinlein's Starship Troopers, Pournelle's Falkenberg's Legion, and Drake's Hammer's Slammers.  This debt is acknowledged implicitly in various ways and explicitly at least once in the character Major Joachim Steuben of the Tenth Panzer Grenadiers.    Other reviewers have disliked the large number of threads that seem to go nowhere.  Ringo, however, appears to understand the complexity of any war, particularly one that includes a large-scale upgrade of basic equipment.  Many different stories are involved and often converge only toward the end of the conflict.  This war involves more people in more places than did World War II;  Ringo has attempted to portray the big picture through its impact on common people in much the same way that Turtledove does.    Recommended for Heinlein, Pournelle, and Drake fans and anyone who enjoys combat SF stories with an emphasis on small-unit tactics.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-03-06
1206241:US	49390985	R2RB58LFMXLC2N	0441205623	415580352	Empire Of The East	Books	5	32	34	N	N	A Fundamental Change of Laws	The Empire of the East is an omnibus edition of a fantasy trilogy that includes The Broken Lands, The Black Mountains, and Ardneh's World (the last story is a revised version of Changling Earth).  This series follows the adventures of Rolf, a sixteen year old peasant boy in the lands of the Satrap Ekuman.  When his parents are killed and his home destroyed, Rolf goes looking for the killers and his sister Lisa.  He meets the peddler Mewick, who helps him bury his parents, and then accompanies the peddler until they are stopped by three soldiers of the Castle.  While the soldiers are distracted by the contents of the peddler's pack, Rolf goes beserk and throws a rock at the closest trooper.  Although he misses, Mewick doesn't, and they kill all three soldiers. However, their actions are seen and they immediately have to run from other soldiers.  Through these deeds, Rolf became a member of the Western resistance.    In The Broken Lands, Rolf and his teammates search for the Elephant, a very powerful thing or creature of the Old World.    In The Black Mountains, Rolf and his teammates follow Lord Chup and a golden charm to the Black Mountains, where they encountered a demi-god.    In Ardneh's World, Rolf dreams of Ardneh and the transformation of the Old World of science into a new world of magic, and follows his dreams to Ardneh itself.    This series is one of the most enthralling tales of magical adventure that I have ever encountered.  All of the Swords and the Gods books are based on this series, but, while quite enjoyable in themselves, the sequels have never really achieved the same level of fascination.    Recommended for Saberhagen fans and anyone who enjoys well crafted tales of sword and sorcery.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-03-05
1207131:US	49390985	R3NHHMIDXC88N9	0451459164	25012495	The Shadow of the Storm	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The Offensive Act	Shadow of the Storm is the third novel in the Fallen Cloud series, following The Spirit of Thunder.  In the previous volume, George has lost a great deal of gold to a French trader, but finds another way to obtain weapons.  He is severely wounded during the attack on Fort Assurance and Storm Arriving is also wounded while setting demolition charges on the railroad bridge over the Missouri.  News of the bridge's destruction reaches Washington before the election, but is suppressed.    In this novel, George Armstrong Custer, Senior, wins re-election to his second term as President of the United States.  Not everybody is pleased, to say the least, and trouble is brewing between the labor unionists and the industrialists.  The common people, however, are mostly pleased at the prospect of free land made available with the Homestead Act, property in the lands of the Cheyenne Alliance.    In Little Italy, Cesare Uccido tries to protect his twin sister, Fortuna, from the hustlers and pimps, but is unsuccesful.  In despair for the hard life of her family, Fortuna agrees to couple with a rich man for a golden coin, yet Cesare finds her with the man and tries to take her away, but the man attacks him and Cesare fights back, finally taking out all his rage on the man, killing him thoroughly.  Afterward they flee, to find themselves with the man's clothes containing a large amount of cash and coin.  With this money, the Uccido family flees to the frontier to stake out a homestead.    Back in New York, the new Ambassador from New Spain takes on his duties after the degraded death of his predecessor in a house of ill-repute.  On his introductory visit to the White House, he overhears the President disparaging the Spanish government and leaves angrily.  Since the Ambassador has a prior hatred for Custer, he looks for a way to pay back the President for his misdeeds.    Among the Cheyenne, George Armstong Custer, Junior, called One Who Flies by his Cheyenne family, is still trying to stop the slaughter of his adopted people.  He is still weak from his wounds, but agrees to leave early with Mouse Roads and Picking Bones Woman to join Storm Arriving and Speaks While Leaving for the birth of their baby.  One Who Flies is happy to travel early since he wants to ask Storm Arriving for permission to court Mouse Roads.  Before he can be answered, the death of Picking Bones Woman causes the family to leave for the deathgrounds on the shore of the Big Salty, the Nebraska Sea.    All these elements converge on Washington for a major confrontation between the US and the Cheyenne.    This novel is well written and enjoyable, not only for the plot, but for the details on the lives of the Cheyenne people.  The twists and turns of the plot are frustrating to the reader as well as the main character, but are necessary to sustain the story.  After all, a peaceful life is boring to most readers, yet most of the really good sections were just everyday life among the Cheyenne.    Recommended for Giambastiani fans and anyone who enjoys tales of exotic people and international intrigue in a fantasy setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-03-04
1209371:US	49390985	RDX2SXZ7JBOH9	0765304252	365510736	The Moon's Shadow (Saga of the Skolian Empire)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	A Sheep Among Wolves	The Moon's Shadow (2003) is the eighth novel in the Skolian Imperialate series, following [[ASIN:0812568826 Spherical Harmonic]].  In the preceding novels, the Skolians and Eubians have brought each other to their knees, Sauscony has rescued Jaibrol II and Althor and then fled under cover of an exploding decoy that convinces everyone that their shuttle has been destroyed, and Jaibrol III has exchanged himself for his uncle Eldrin and then has become the new Emperor of Eube ([[ASIN:0812580362 The Radiant Seas]]).    Kelric has come back to Skolian space, is captured and enslaved as a provider by Eubians, but escapes to the Sphinx Sector Rim Base, where he declares himself Imperator through the stolen Lock, disables it, and therein meets the new Eubian Emperor;  he flees from the SSRB in a stolen ship to Spikedown outpost and then on to Earth with his consort-to-be, Jeejon, a former Eubian taskmaster ([[ASIN:0812566653 Ascendant Sun]]).      Furthermore, the Allied Worlds have been driven away from the Valdoria homeworld by public pressure ([[ASIN:0812568834 The Quantum Rose]]) and the Ruby Pharoah, Dyhianna Selei, has come back from Hilbert Space, reclaimed her husband, Eldrin, from the Allied Worlds, and, in a military coup, taken the rule of Skolia, which she graciously shares with the Assembly ([[ASIN:0812568826 Spherical Harmonic]]).    In this novel, in 2277 AD, these events are replayed from the point of view of Jai, the new Emperor of Eube, and extended further into the peace talks between the Eubians and Skolians.  Jai has a difficult time adjusting to Eubian manners and customs, especially the habitual use of circumlocation in speech, but an even more difficult time withstanding the telepathic noise and empathic pressure of the Aristo minds.  Corbal Xir, his cousin and the power behind the throne, learns to care for him, a breach of Aristo conduct, and tries to help him, even to the extent of being direct in his verbal responses.  Tarquine Iquar, his Minister of Finance, also becomes his wife and likewise learns to care for him.  Both assist him in another way, for their minds are much less noisy and pressuring than the other Aristos, thus providing a quiet and restful haven for Jai.    While his associates are slowly becoming his friends, Jai is opposed by the Joint Commanders of the Eubean Space Command, Xirad Kaliga and Kryx Taratus, and by a rich conniver, Jaibrol Raziquon.  These plotters kidnap providers, encourage disparaging rumors, and attempt assassinations.  They are greatly helped by the way Jai responds to fine old Highton Aristo traditions, like transcending, large-scale extortion, and fraudulent provider sales.    This series is like a jigsaw puzzle that is just now beginning to provide a glimpse of the whole picture.  The early works seemed to be totally independent of each other, but are finally coming together.  Nevertheless, there is surely more to come.    Recommended for Asaro fans and anyone who enjoys romantic space opera within exotic -- and stressful -- cultures.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-03-02
1211136:US	49390985	R1XYQA7G3RI2ZR	074344406X	9077745	Captain Nemo: The Fantastic History of a Dark Genius	Books	3	14	15	N	N	An Old Fashioned Scientific Romance	Captain Nemo is a novel in the tradition of Farmer's The Other Log of Phileas Fogg and other tributes to science fiction pioneers.  Andre Nemo is the son of a carpenter in the shipyards of Nantes.  His friend Jules Verne is the son of a local lawyer.  Together they dream of exploration and experiment with diving suits.<br />When Andre's father is killed in a ship fire, he becomes a cabin boy on the Coralie and sails on an exploratory mission.  Jules tries to join Andre but is intercepted by his father and taken back to Nantes.  After a long voyage, the Coralie is attacked by pirates and Andre is stranded on a mysterious island.  He escapes underground, finds dinosaurs, and travels through the center of the earth.  Later, he travels across Africa in a huge balloon and is involved in the building of a great undersea vessel by Robur, a Turkish general.  <br />Meanwhile, Jules completes his training as a lawyer and dabbles in writing plays, with little success.  As he receives news of Andre's exploits, Jules incorporates them into fictious adventures which become wildly successful.  Eventually, Jules is reunited briefly with Andre aboard the Nautilus and gets an underwater tour.<br />Caroline Aronnax, the daughter of a wealthy merchant, is the friend and sweetheart of both boys, but is more attracted to Andre.  After Andre goes to sea, Caroline is married to Captain Hatteras, who sails away to the Arctic Sea, never to return.  In his absence, Caroline manages the Hatteras household and finances and, when her father dies, the family business as well.  Although still loving Andre, she is determined to be true to her husband until he has been legally presumed dead.  Andre can't stand the wait and goes off to the Crimean War.<br />Although bowing to the imagination of Jules Verne as an author, this novel suggests his many flaws and shortcomings as a man.  Would Verne have written his great adventures if he had been more contented with his life?  Maybe the greatest dreamersare never fully content.<br />Anderson has written a scientific romance of the old style, but with a thoroughly modern heroine.  It is fun, but not the best that Anderson can produce.<br />Recommended to Anderson fans and anyone who enjoys a good retake of a classical SF story.	2003-03-01
1213725:US	49390985	R3BGW7P525DQ89	0812511123	33774675	Street Magic (Tor Fantasy)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Elves in San Francisco, with a twist	Street Magic is the first novel in a series of urban fantasies based on different magic traditions, but with a twist.  Moreover, these stories are all hard-boiled mysteries.  This novel invokes the tradition of Tir Nan Og, the land of the Irish Faery.    Scott Russell is an unemployed detective agency operative in San Francisco who has been hired by an old college chum, Ed Thayer, to find his runaway son, Danny.  however, Danny has absolutely no desire to return to his father;  he only wants who wants to go home to Fairyland.  His wishes seem to be coming true when he meets a young woman, Robin, with pointed ears and the ability to use glamour to conceal or disguise herself and others.    Robin is a scatterling, a drifter from Tir Nan Og, who moves in and out of the human's world as the mood strikes her.  However, she and her fellow scatterlings can no longer cross back to Tir Nan Og without the assistance of a Full Blooded Sidhe.  When Danny sees through her glamour, she begins to think that he is a Full Blooded changling, a Keymaster, and her ticket home if only he can remember how to open the gallitrap.    Scott is assisted in the case by Liz Gallegher, a reporter on the Midnight Star, who is tired of making up crazy articles and wants to properly investigate a real story for a change.  They are greatly helped in their efforts by a fantasy novel, The City Under the Hill, which tells of the restrictions placed on the gallitraps between Tir Nan Og and the world of humans.    Recommended for Reaves fans and anyone who enjoys a good fairy tale with a different ending.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-02-26
1213843:US	49390985	R3VQF1AH0O26VX	0812519949	780209306	Night Hunter	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Vampires in La-La Land, with a twist	The Night Hunter is the second novel in a series of urban fantasies based on different magic traditions, but with a twist.  Moreover, these stories are all hard-boiled mysteries.  This novel invokes the tradition of life-stealing vampires.    Jake Hull is a detective in the LAPD who is assigned a case where the victim has been stabbed in the heart with a wooden stake.  Immediately the newspapers start crying \\"vampire hunter\\".  Jake co-opts a younger uniformed policeman to assist when the pressure comes down to catch the  murderer before the media goes bonkers.  When the \\"vampire hunter\\" strikes again, Jake also co-opts a female Medical Examiner to help.    This novel plays heavily on the Hollywood tradition of vampire movies, but ultimately strikes out on its own.  Note the references to the Midnight Star and Ed Thayer from Street Magic.    Recommended for Reaves fans and anyone who enjoys a good horror story that acknowledges the Hollywood tradition without being confined by it.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-02-26
1219672:US	49390985	R1SQ418KJ16OMF	0451458702	679287513	The Spirit of Thunder	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Railroad Runs Through	The Spirit of Thunder (2002) is the second fantasy novel in the Fallen Cloud series, following The Year the Cloud Fell.  In the previous volume, George Armstrong Custer, Junior, called One Who Flies, guides a raid by the Cheyenne Alliance to Washington, DC, and captures the Capitol building while congress is in session.  The Cheyennes negotiate a peace treaty with the leaders of congress and then return home.  There, Speaks While Leaving has found a golden nugget within a crack in a boulder.    In this novel, One Who Flies recognizes the possibilities, both for good and bad, from the gold on Cheyenne land.  He digs up some of the gold, but needs proper tools to reach the main lode.  Speaks While Leaving is disturbed and angry at the condition of the dig and tells him a vision of restoring the land after digging out the gold.  One Who Flies journeys to a trading post to trade furs for tools and there he meets Vincent D'Avignon, a trader who recognizes his intent to mine gold and offers to help him.  Eventually, Vincent becomes an advisor and partner to the Cheyenne.    Back in Washington, a bill in the Senate calls for a major railroad extension crossing the entire state of Yankton and bridging over the Missouri in order to open up the Unorganized Territory to settlement.  Custer supports the bill and sends General Herron west to command the project, with Lieutenant Colonel Craig Shafer to command the engineers who will build the bridge.    The Army also pushes out many to the previously conquered tribes over the Big Greasy, the Missouri river.  The Cheyenne fight back, but are overwhelmed by the numerous well-armed soldiers.  The Army protects the railroad with forts along its lengths and soon has forts being built in the Unorganized Territories.    One Who Flies struggles to produce the gold to buy arms, ammunition, and demolition charges to stop the advance of the railroad, but is running out of time.    This novel points out the weaknesses of the Cheyenne in a war for territory and proposes some solutions to these weaknesses, while maintaining their strengths of mobility and stealth.    Recommended for Giambastiani fans and anyone who enjoys tales of personal courage and combat.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-02-21
1219868:US	49390985	REAY7VAKOH4BT	0451458214	20732768	The Year the Cloud Fell (Roc Book)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	An Enjoyable Fantasy of Indians Riding Dinosaurs	The Year the Cloud Fell is the first novel in the Fallen Cloud fantasy series.  It is an alternate timeline story in which the Nebraska Sea never fully retreated over the past 65 million years.  This allowed dinosaurs of all kinds to acclimate to the changing conditions until modern times.  Furthermore, some of these dinosaurs were tamed by the natives and used as riding animals.    In this novel, George Armstrong Custer, Junior, is the son of the US President, a Captain in the US Army Engineers, and the commander of the experimental dirigible Abraham Lincoln.  On its maiden flight, the dirigible is caught by a thunderstorm while flying over the Unorganized Territory and forced down.  There George is nursed by Speaks While Leaving, a Cheyenne woman who has true visions, and then captured by a patrol led by Storm Arriving.  George is offered the name One Who Flies and is taken back to the encampment, where he is exposed to Cheyenne ways.  He tries to escape, but runs into a patrol, falls off his mount, and lands on his own knife.      As he recovers, he makes friends among the Cheyenne, Storm Arriving and Speaks While Leaving among others, but one of his closest is Laughs Like A Woman, a Contrary, a subject of the Thunder Beings wrath and scrutiny.  Eventually, George begins to see the errors in the white man's view of the Cheyenne and to regret the hurts done to them.  To stop the killing, he joins with his new friends to ride coup on the chief of the Horse People, his father.    This novel is billed as science fiction, but is really a fantasy.  First, it explicitly involves direct intervention and contact with the Thunder Beings of Cheyenne legends.  Second, it concerns a history that is basically unchanged until the United States collides with the Cheyenne, despite the major geological deviance of the Nebraska Sea;  just the effects on world wide weather over 65 million years should be enough to change the course of European history, much less the direct effects upon the Spanish, French and English explorers.  The chances of George Armstrong Custer fighting in a Civil War in the United States of America while North America still has such a geological feature, and dinosaurs as well, is extremely small.  Maybe about as small as all the air around someone's head withdrawing to leave a vacuum;  possible but not very likely.    This novel probably should be classified as a native fantasy.  However, with sufficient suspension of disbelief, this misclassification does not detract from the quality of writing, for the plot is interesting and the characterization is very well done.  Overall, it is a pleasure to read.      Recommended to anyone who enjoys adventure and exotic cultures in a fantasy setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-02-21
1226063:US	49390985	R2ORBF9AM8XCJE	0441581056	537591294	The 97th Step	Books	5	19	19	N	N	A Matter of Enlightenment	The 97th Step is the fourth novel written in the Matador series, but is the first in internal chronology.  It is the story of Mwili Kalamu, a farm boy from Cibule, who ran away from home at the age of fourteen and who is destined to become Pen, the teacher of Emile Antoon Khadaji.    Leaving Cibule, he takes the name of Ferret and becomes a lane runner, living at the fringes of society and stealing to make ends meet.  During this period, he becomes the partner of Bennet Gworn, a fellow laner, but then has to abandon him when a heist goes bad.  Later, he becomes the partner of Stoll, smuggling illegal merchandise, and meets Shar, an exotic dancer who sees him as a soul mate.  All falls apart, however, when Gworn gets out of prison and comes looking for him.    After Gworn kills Stoll and Shar, and he kills Gworn, Ferret tries to forget with drugs and alcohol, but the memories still fester in his mind.  After a long period of continual intoxication, he meets his old martial arts teacher, Dindabe, in a bar and agrees to resume his studies.  The workouts flush the poisons from his system and he begins to regain an interest in life as he regains his proficiency in the arts, but he still lives from day to day, with no long term interests.    Dindabe introduces him to Moon, a Sister of the Shroud, and encourages him to become her student.  Ferret goes with Moon to the training center on Manus, near Wewak, New Guinea.  Although doubting his own commitment, he takes the name Pen and gradually becomes engrossed in the program and finally graduates.    This novel is a tale of enlightenment.  Pen has no real faith in himself, for everyone around him has either turned against him or died.  Before Pen could accomplish anything, he must recognize himself as a person and have faith in that person.    Recommended for Perry fans and anyone who enjoys tales of martial arts in a SF setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-02-16
1226135:US	49390985	R25OVKHACIOS02	0345440668	994608113	The Briar King (Kingdoms of Thorn and Bone, Book 1)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	A Master of Mythology	The Briar King (2003) is the first novel in the Kingdoms of Thorn and Bone series.  In the olden times, humans were transported from their own world to be enslaved by the Skasloi.  When the humans rose up and destroyed their masters using the sedos magic, their leader, Genia Dare, proclaimed the new age of Eberon Vhasris Slanon.  But their Skasloi captive, Qexqaneh, told them that the use of the sedos would cause this new age to be cursed and destroyed.    Two millennia later, something deadly is stirring in the King's Forest.  Aspar White, the King's Holter, finds a greffyn poisoning the woods and killing people with its very breath.  Steven Darige, a novice traveling to the monastery at d'Ef, is rescued by Aspar from bandits and escorted to the monastery, where he discovers something is awry.  William, the Emperor of Crotheny, is told of more warlike maneuvering by the Hansa empire and appoints his brother, Robert, as prime minister to uncover the Hansa plans.  Neil MeqVren of Liery travels to Eslen to be presented to the Emperor, saves Queen Muriele from an assassin, is knighted by the Emperor, and is named the Captain of the Lier Guard, the Queen's Own.  The Emperor's youngest daughter, Anne, has a vision of a masked lady voicing portents and advice.    This story shows that Keyes is strongly influenced by Tolkien's methodology, carefully building a consistent world rich in mythos and language.  Where Tolkien used British mythology, however, with German and French influences, Keyes bases his world and characters on an extended mythology that also incorporates Celtic and Slavic influences.    This novel resembles Martin's Game of Thrones, in ambiance and treatment.  Both books set the groundwork for a period of bloody war and intrigue.  As such, both books are rather depressing;  the bad guys get away with too much.  The next volume in this series is entitled The Charnel King and is followed by two others;  it may be a long wait before the final victory for our heroes and heroines.    Recommended for Keyes fans and anyone who enjoyed Martin's The Song of Ice and Fire series.	2003-02-16
1226141:US	49390985	R1FP8RMKCTE7XW	0743435931	537732403	Empire From the Ashes (Weber, David)	Books	5	158	160	N	N	Dahak Series Omnibus	Empire From the Ashes (2003) is an omnibus edition of the Dahak series. It contains Mutineers' Moon, The Armageddon Inheritance, and Heirs of Empire. These novels are among Weber's earliest works.    Before Honor Harrington there was Commander Colin Maclntyre, USN. On a routine training mission to the moon, he discovered that the Moon wasn't a natural body, but rather a 3000 kilometer diameter warship, the Dahak. Moreover, the artificial intelligence that guided the ship had been waiting patiently -- 51,000 years -- for a crew, so it immediately impressed Colin as its commander.    In Mutineers' Moon, Colin has to fight the original mutiny as well as human terrorists and fanatics. Moreover, there were the long lost empire itself.    In The Armageddon Inheritance, Colin must fight against an invasion of genocidal aliens, the Achuultani. These aliens periodically swarm through the galaxy exterminating all other races. Earth can't resist them, so Colin searches the long lost empire for assistance.    In Heirs of Empire, Colin's children are shipwrecked during their midshipman cruise on a primitive planet, where they face an implacable theocracy that wants them dead. Meanwhile, back in the capital, an unknown enemy is threatening the empire.    These novels are space opera, of the \\"find a starship and see the galaxy\\" variety, with simple plots but lots of action. The scope of these novels is much like the Lensman series, huge fleets fighting in space, but without the colliding planets. Moreover, the technology is more generic and less detailed than in the Honor Harrington series.     Recommended for Weber fans and anyone who enjoys largescale space opera.	2003-02-16
1226247:US	49390985	RZONWW7DWXC09	0756401194	696418912	The Gathering Storm (Crown of Stars, Vol. 5)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Again, The Cataclysm	The Gathering Storm is the fifth novel in the Crown of Stars series, following Child of Flame.  In the previous volume, Prince Bayan has been killed by Quman sorcery, but Prince Sanglant has defeated the Quman hosts, capturing Bulkezu, and now has taken his army to the east.  King Henry has been possessed by a daimone and Sister Rosvita has been imprisoned in a dungeon, but Hathui escapes the plotters.  Liathano walks the spheres, learning the truth of her mother and meeting Sanglant's grandfather and mother.  Alain has met Adica and witnessed her death in the great weaving, but has been swallowed by the white fires of the crowns.  Ivar dreams of Alain as he and his friends escape through the tunnels to elsewhere.    In this novel, two Eagles, and a young aspirant, meet in an old Dariyan waystation and exchange information.  Hanna and Ernst have come from  Osterburg and Hathui from Darre.  When they leave, Ernst travels back to Princess Theophanu in Osterburg, Hanna goes to Henry's court in Darre, and Hathui travels to Sanglant in Ungria.    In Wendar, Theophanu holds Osterburg as regent while Henry is pursuing imperial ambitions in Aosta, but has few forces available to her and is beset with uprisings in Varre and civil war in Salia.    In Aosta, Henry and his new queen, Adelheid, have overcome the rebels in the north, but still struggle against riots, Arethousan invaders and Jinna bandits in the south.  Hanna has been sequestered by Hugh, but is able to make contact with Rosvita's clerics.  When a severe earthquake occurs, they use the distraction to rescue Rosvita and then flee to the Convent of St. Ekatarina, but with Hugh in pursuit.    In Ungria, Sanglant, together with Sapientia and Blessing, is moving east to the great grasslands hunting griffen feathers and sorcerers, with Bulkezu as his guide.  While only three years old, Blessing is growing very rapidly in physical maturity, but not emotionally.    In the north, Stronghand is invading Alba and thinking Empire.  Alain returns through the crowns from his sojourn in the past, grieving for Adica.  Stronghand and Alain begin to perceive each other's thoughts once more.    Soon Anne and the other sleepers will begin the great weaving to forever sunder the Ashioi from the world.  Can none stop them?    This volume was a long time coming, but well worth the wait.  According to Elliott, the story just refused to stay small.  Like the previous volume, this novel is almost 900 pages long.  Hopefully, the next, and last, volume in the series will not take quite as long.  Just remember,   Tolkien worked on the Lord of Rings trilogy for decades;  does anyone want to complain about that?    Recommended for all those Elliott fans who have waited patiently and for anyone who likes large-scale fantasy tales of war and intrigue.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-02-16
1226415:US	49390985	R1UDH639T40XZ	0671720856	477147021	Mutineer's Moon (Dahak Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Hunter's Moon	Mutineers' Moon (1991) is the first novel in the Dahak series. During the Fourth Imperium, 51 millenia ago, mutineers have almost taken the Imperial battleship Dahak and the captain has issued orders to evacuate the ship, to flush the internal spaces with chemical and radioactives, and to only re-admit the mutineers after all surviving crew have returned aboard. Fleet Captain (E) Anu, leader of the mutineers, had then sabotaged the power rooms and fled the ship in sublight parasite warships to the nearby planet. The loyalist crew have also evacuated in lifeboats to the same planet, Terra, where they have become the \\"indigenous\\" population.    Sometime in the near future, circa 2040, Lieutenant Commander Colin MacIntyre, USN, is on a routine survey flight of the Moon as training for the first interstellar flight, but his survey systems are showing anomalous readings: the data indicate that the Moon is hollow! Then a bogey appears out of nowhere, pulls a 90 degree turn, overtakes his spacecraft, and grabs it with a tractor beam. When Colin hails the bogey, he gets no response, so he fires three missles at the other ship, but they all just vanish in thin space. Then the bogey stops dead, with no signs of exhaust, and zips back toward the moon with Colin's craft in tow. They enter a minor crater, through a suddenly revealed hole in the surface, into large tunnel, through dozens of huge hatches, and into a very large hangar.    There the ship's artificial intelligence introduces itself, in English, as the Dahak, a 52 thousand year old warship disguised as Luna, the Earth's moon. It tells him that he cannot leave, briefs him on the mutiny and its aftermath, and informs him that he is now in command of the vessel. After hours of arguing with the computer -- a useless task at best and you might make it angry -- Colin gives in, undergoes a regime of \\"biotechnic enhancment\\", and, after the truamatic results of that, an extended training period in his new capabilities. However, time is at a premium, for the Achuultani, an alien species, are coming again for their periodic destructive visit, as they have been doing for 70 million years.    Colin must help the Dahak to overcome the mutineers, who have spent the millenia in stasis, before they escape in Terran built starships. The Dahak has speculated that the mutineers have some sort of link with NASA, so Colin returns to Earth to find the contact.    This novel has a lot in common with older SF tales, such as the stranded spacemen in Wilson's The Time Masters and the buried starship in Norton's Galactic Derelict. Moreover, the lost empire plot is similar to that of Van Vogt's Null-A series. The use of technological details is very similar to, but more up to date than, E.E. Smith's Skylark and Lensman series.  Nevertheless, Weber's use of these familiar SF elements results in something very exciting to read.    Recommended for Weber fans and anyone who enjoys technologically rationalized space opera.	2003-02-16
1226460:US	49390985	R11HRJ3SWJJXDL	0671877070	580847189	Heirs of Empire (Dahak)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Five Against Pardal	Heirs of Empire (1996) is the third novel in the Dahak series, following The Armageddon Inheritance.  In the previous novel, Colin has become His Imperial Majesty, Colin I, and returned from the Bia System with the Imperial Guard, 93 planetoids, all larger and more powerful than Dahak.  This flotilla helps finish off the Achuultani advance force and then ambushes the vanguard and the main force.  However, they soon discover that a powerful reserve force still remains and Earth has no more reinforcements.  During the desperate fighting, however, Dahak leads a suicidal assault on the command ship and, while communicating with the Achuultani Battle Comp, manages to terminate its software.  Although Dahak the ship is destroyed, Dahak the persona is downloaded to Dahak Two and rebooted therein.    Ten years later, Earth is faced with the religious bigots of the Church of the Armageddon and the xenophobic bigots of The Humans for a Human Imperium.  Moreover, Colin has a mole in his government, providing information to a terrorist group, the Sword of God, that is bombing random targets and assassinating government officials.    Meanwhile, Sean and Harriet, the Imperial children, are growing up under the benevolent guardianship of Dahak, the 52,000 year old Battle planetoid.  They and their friends are destined for the Battle Fleet Academy and, on their midshipman cruise, the terrorists sabotage their ship.  While escaping before the ship blows, they are stranded in an unexplored sector.  Fortunately an inhabited planet is nearby, but it is controlled by a theocracy that believes all offworlders are demons.  Moreover, the planet is heavily defended by an ancient computer which, under the control of the theocracy, is programmed to destroy any ship approaching or departing the planet.  They cannot overcome the numerous orbital weapon systems nor can they destroy the computer itself due to possible collateral damage to the human population, so they will just have to confront the computer directly despite the tens of thousands of opposing soldiers.    This novel has a basic subplot of a technological treasure trove among a primitive and hostile theocracy much like Pournelle's King David's Spaceship.  It has military aspects similar to Pournelle's Janissary series as well as Weber and Ringo's Markudan March series.  It also has a minor romantic element.    During their stay of the planet Pardal, Harriet sustains damage to the implants in her right eye and has to wear an eye patch.  Shades of HH!    Recommended for Weber fans and anyone who enjoys tales of shipwrecked technological sophisticates among primitive natives.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-02-16
1226501:US	49390985	R12JH2GU3AEXIX	0671721976	722463062	The Armageddon Inheritance	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The Time of the Horde	The Armageddon Inheritance (1993) is the second novel in the Dahak series, following Mutineers' Moon.  In the previous novel, Senior FleetCaptain Colin McIntyre, Imperial Battle Fleet, and former Lieutenant Commander, USN, has led the assault against the mutineers' enclave and has singlehandedly defeated Anu, launching him in a lifeboat toward the Dahak.  Having identified the occupant of the lifeboat as the only remaining mutineer at large, the Dahak had let it come within the five thousand kilometer kill zone, destroyed it with a single burst of energy, and then marked its Alpha Priority task as completed.  Two months later, Colin has pronounced himself Planetary Governor, re-established peace, appointed a Lieutenant Governor and Imperial Councilors to run the planet, executed all the unrepentant mutineers, created an Imperial technological and industrial base, and prepared to embark on a mission to find the lost empire.    In this novel, the hypercom transmitter has been repaired and used to broadcast to all Imperial stations, but has not received any responses.  Colin takes the Dahak to Sheskar, the nearest known Imperial military base, but finds it has been destroyed by weapon fire, probably in a civil war.  They then travel to Defram, but find it completely devoid of life;  they speculate that this was caused by a biological weapon.  Before leaving the immediate vicinity, they go to Kano, a nearby star, and are greeted with sublight missiles;  after destroying the opposing orbital installations, they discover that the planet, Keerah, is also devoid of life, but one of the orbital stations still contains plants in its hydroponics facility.  Sending a volunteer aboard, they find valuable information and equipment.  From there, they travel to the Bia system and the Imperial capital, Birhat.    Back on Earth, Horus and the Imperial Council direct a vigorous program of retooling and rearming with Imperial technology to meet the threat of the Achuultani.  The Supreme Chiefs of Staff expands to nine members, co-opts Marshal Tsien of the Asian Alliance, and directs him to select three others from the Alliance.  The Planetary and Orbital Defense Centers are almost on schedule when an attempted coup by Alliance officers severely wounds General Hatcher, the Chairman of the Supreme Chiefs, so he appoints Marshall Tsien as the Acting Chairman.  Deeply shamed by the mutiny of his own officers, Tsien promptly, and thoroughly, quells the attempted coup.  However, two Asian PDCs have been sabotaged and fall far behind schedule.  Although other problems occur, Earth should be ready to defeat the first assault by the enemy advance party, but probably will not be able to withstand the following attacks by the vanguard and the main force unless Colin can bring reinforcements from the empire.    This novel has a basic plot much like the Ringo's Legacy of the Alldenata series, but without the ground combat, or like Dickson's Hour of the Horde.  For that matter, it is much like an old western, with the settlers circling their wagons and the scout riding off to get the cavalry.  Obviously, the enjoyment comes from the details, which have the precision and realism that we have come to expect from Weber.    Recommended for Weber fans and anyone who enjoys realistic space war stories.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-02-16
1226603:US	49390985	R2Y7HQ7XMOYNY6	0743435761	851894334	Advance and Retreat	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Rambling On Down to Ramblerton	Advance and Retreat (2002) is the third novel in the War Between the Provinces fantasy series, following Marching Through Peachtree.  This series closely reflects the events of the American War Between the States, but uses dramatic license to create thoughts and words for the characters.  Moreover, it uses punny names for persons and places and reverses most everything from directions to uniform colors.    This volume covers the period after the fall of Atlanta to Sherman through the destruction of the Army of Tennessee as an effective force.  It portrays the generals on both sides as human beings with both strengths and weaknesses.  While the characterizations are frequently based on the remaining documents of that period, nobody now or then knows for sure what went on in the privacy of these minds.  Some traits are fairly well established from documentary evidence, but others are more like SWAGs.  Read some of the many published histories and biographies covering this period and make your own guess.    Certain characters are treated more sympathetically in this novel -- i.e., George Thomas and Bedford Forrest -- than they were by their own professional peers;  both displayed a competency that was not acknowledged by their ultimate commanders.  On the other hand, Hood was totally belittled by his superiors, yet regained his reputation by blowing his own horn in his memoirs and speeches.    This novel is fun, but can be frustrating if you aren't a Civil War buff.  Some of the punny names are really obscure.  Nevertheless, I still wish Harry Turtledove would write nonfictional history books.  Maybe a study guide for this series?    Recommended for Turtledove fans and all alternate history buffs who also like fantasy.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-02-16
1231761:US	49390985	R1I08J7H467BAE	0060505664	629884050	The Warrior's Bond (Tale of Einarinn)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	It's Festival Time	The Warrior's Bond is the fourth novel in the Tales of Einarinn series, following The Gambler's Fortune.  In the previous volume, Livak has left a songbook with Pered to translate and traveled with Usara to Selerima in Western Ensaimin to learn more about the Mountain Men folk songs and tales.  Joining with Sorgrad and Sorgren, they then traveled on the Great West Road through the Great Forest to the mountains.  There they have fought an Elietimm enchanter and Mountain Men and have returned with Aritane, a renegade Sheltya, to assist the wizards of Hadrumal in the study of enchantment.<br />In this novel, Ryshad has become a Chosen man of the House of D'Olbriot and assigned to the Esquire D'Alsennin, who has come over from Kel Ar'ayen -- i.e., Kellarin -- for the Summer Solstice Festival in Toremal.  There Temar D'Alsennin meets the nobility of the Empire and gets robbed, snubbed, stabbed, mobbed and otherwise entertained.  Moreover, House D'Olbriot is embroiled in law suits and invaded by thieves.  Someone is stirring up trouble for both D'Olbriot and D'Alsennin.<br />Ryshad is also having a interesting time, with ritual challenges that turn deadly, beautiful con ladies, and failures to keep his patron informed.  Casuel is his usual C3PO self, always vain and ambitious, barely in control of his magic, never in control of his tongue, and occasionally useful.  Allin is still deferential to Casuel, but growing more independent with encouragement from Temar.  Then there are the Emperor and palaces and mazes and balls and puppet theaters and rope walkers and seers and feasts and assassins and a host of other sights and events.  It is festival time!<br />Recommended for McKenna fans and anyone who enjoys adventures and personal relationships within a fantasy setting.	2003-02-11
1235744:US	49390985	R212A23KM3N71A	0312859228	503117949	Atlantis Endgame: A New Time Traders Adventure	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Hit and Run Time Travel	Atlantis Endgame (2002) is the seventh novel in the Time Traders series, following [[ASIN:0812552741 Echoes in Time]].  It tells the further adventures of Ross Murdock, his wife, Eveleen Riordan, and his partner, Gordon Ashe.  It also adds a new character, Linnea Edel, an old acquaintance of Gordon.    In this story, Linnea has found an anachronistic earring with a modern jeweler's mark in a site on Thera, the probable location of legendary ancient Atlantis.  While interesting in and of itself, it becomes extremely intriguing when found to be identical to an earring belonging to Eveleen.  This existence of this object in ancient layers of soil suggests that it was lost circa 1628 BC, shortly before the island was destroyed by an huge volcanic eruption.    The Project suspects Baldie intervention in the eruption and intends to send a team back in time to investigate.  The Russian time travel group cooperates with the Project to send a small ship with six agents aboard back to Kalliste, the ancient name of Thera before the eruption.    From there, they travel to Akrotiri -- the major town on the island -- where they discover signs of Baldie tech in the volcano vents both on land and in the sea.  Later a group of Baldies are seen on the beach, apparently looking for indications of THEM.  They also find a Baldie ship in the sea, but can't locate the Baldie onshore base.  They do find a couple of Fur Faces, a alien sentient species encountered only once before;  however, they do not seem to be allies of the Baldies.    The natives are anxiously awaiting word from their oracle, but nothing new has been spoken in the past few months.  Some Kallistans have left the island anyway, terrified by the frequent earthquakes and the steam, smoke, ash and rock ejected  by the volcano.  Linnea claims to be an Egyptian Earth-Goddess priestess to infiltrate the Oracle's household and is there when the seer orders the evacuation of the island.    This novel is driven by the imminent threat of eruption, so is more like a hit and run than the almost leisurely exploration in the other tales in this series.  The team are all disappointed by the lack of opportunity to study this almost unknown culture, but Linnea, the newcomer, is particularly frustrated by the time limit.    Recommended for all Norton fans and anyone who enjoys tales of ancient societies in a SF setting.  For those who have not previously read this series, the initial volume is [[ASIN:0839824211 The Time Traders]].    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-02-08
1236887:US	49390985	R2B5WQSG4ZDZP3	0441519180	80172198	The Man Who Never Missed	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A Wasp in Their Ear	The Man Who Never Missed is the first novel written in the Matador series.  However, it is the second novel in the series by internal chronological sequence, following The 97th Step.<br />In this novel, Emile Antoon Khadaji is an former Confed veteran with six years combat experience when he finds himself in a bloodbath on Maro, where three-quarters of a million religious fanatic ran, walked and crept into the Confed fire zones and died.  This traumatic event breaks his social conditioning and gives him an epiphany about violence. He runs into the oncoming mob, discarding his equipment as he goes, and later finds himself in a nearby town, where he meets Pen (see The 97th Step).<br />He realizes that the amount of violence used by the Confed is wrong and looks for a way to eliminate the strong-arm tactics.  Pen teaches him how to control himself and Juete teaches him to see others as they are.  On Bocca, he learns the nature of politics and military force as well as many other subjects.  He wallows in learning for a while, but then moves on to gaining money as a power base.<br />On Greaves, he buys a bar and specializes in providing a good time to the troops.  At night and in his spare time, he shoots select troopers with darts carrying Spasm, a convulsant that leaves the victims totally incapable of speech and movement for six months, but leaves the mind clear and undamaged.  During these six months, he shoots 2388 of the 10,000 Confed troops, including the commanding officer.<br />When the Confed finally catches up to him, he is on record as being the one and only member of the Shamba Freedom Forces.  This spooks the System Marshall and every single trooper that learns the tale.  His fame and example spreads throughout the Confed.<br />This novel is a SF psyops story, focusing on the use of minimum force to achieve political objectives.  Underlying this is a martial arts philosophy which teaches much the same lesson.  When a political system degenerates into a self-perpetuating organization that preys on its own citizens, it only takes a small event to crystallize opposition to its existence.  Witness the fall of the Soviet Union from the inside.<br />This story is much like Eric Frank Russell's Wasp, but with a more military approach and a different objective.  In Wasp, the goal was to reduce the will to resist of the planetary population, but in this novel, the goal is to increase the will to resist of the planetary populations by breaking the reputation of Confed forces.<br />Recommended for all Perry fans and anyone who enjoys psyops stories in a SF setting.	2003-02-07
1237413:US	49390985	R24S6YQXNIV1AP	0451459083	543198748	Conquistador	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A Gateway to Paradise	Conquistador is an intercontinual SF adventure novel.  Unlike pure alternate history stories, this novel depicts a connection between two very different timelines.  The interdimensional aspect of the plot is much like stories from the 1930s: a man is tinkering with a radio when,  suddenly, a silvery curtain appears on his basement wall.  Of course, the phenomenon is an interdimensional interface, so he gathers some army buddies and they scout the situation.  Later, he and his friends establish homesteads in the new world.    The hero of this novel is John Rolfe VI of the Virginia Rolfes.  A graduate of VMI, he has served as an infantry officer in the Pacific theater, invaliding out after the Okinawa invasion, and rents a home in   Oakland, CA, while looking for a job.  When the interworld gate opens in his basement, it connects to the same geographic coordinates in the other timeline, a San Francisco area populated only by Indian tribes untroubled by any European invaders.    After determining that the interface is not a time machine, he and his friends establish contact with the natives and promptly start plagues.  Later, they make contact with an Asian civilization unknown in their own world and promptly carry smallpox from the Orient to Hawaii.  In fact, their contacts with the natives results in a 90% dieoff of the North American population.    This novel follows an employee of the California Department of Fish and Game as he tries to track down a poaching ring that is selling the hides and other items from protected species, including a live California Condor.  He and his partner are puzzled by the sheer quantity of the items, not to mention the condor being unrelated to any other known bird.  Then he sees a live Dodo just before a building falls on him and burns to the ground.    During the investigation, he meets a very attractive, and rich, woman who is also investigating the case for her family.  Unknown to him, she is a Gate Security Force agent trying toprotect the secret of the intercontinual interface.  After a couple of fizzled busts, he begins to suspect that she is closer connected to the case than she lets on.  Nevertheless, he is very much attracted to her.    This novel is much like Piper's Paratime Police novels, but the point of view is a native rather than a paratimer.  It describes a modest crosstime intrusion, much like most of Piper's stories.  However, it definitely expands on the possible harms such contacts can inflict.  The epidemics delineated in the story, however, are quite historical in effect if not cause;  the Columbian era in North America saw the native populations almost totally destroyed by common European diseases, most specifically smallpox, but also childhood diseases such as measles and chickenpox.  The results were much like the Black plague in Europe, but even more deadly.    Recommended for Stirling fans and anyone who enjoys Piper's Paratime stories.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-02-07
1243717:US	49390985	R1CZIB8NFGJVEM	0451459075	742364677	Deathstalker Legacy	Books	4	10	10	N	N	The Terror Comes	Deathstalker Legacy is either the sixth novel in the Deathstalker series or the first in a successor series.  Two hundred years ago, Owen Deathstalker and his friends defeated the forces of the Old Empire and saved humanity -- and aliens -- from the Dark Void.  Now Owen is a legend, lost beyond the rim of the galaxy and some of his friends are also heroes or heroines out of mythology.  For this is the Golden Age and as such, the people want myths, not the shabby truth.<br />In this novel, the Old King is retiring and his son will be the New King.  Douglas doesn't want to be the King, but he sees it as his duty.  A Queen has been selected for him, Jasmine Flowers, the darling of the opera set and his old buddy, Lewis Deathstalker, will be his Champion.  Parliament feels certain that they can work with the New King, although the New King is less certain about that.  It is a time of renewal ... and revolution.<br />For the mythology is following apart.  Certain that he would be the new Champion, Finn Durandal feels bitter and angry when Lewis is named instead.  Finn decides to forgo his role as the leading Paragon in the King's Justice and become a traitor, bringing down the Empire.  He has plenty of help, first from a con artist named Brett Random and then from the Wild Rose of the Arenas, Rose Constantine, an undefeated gladiator.  Then Finn brings in the Neuman of the Pure Humanity League and also helps Angelo Bellini create a new Church Militant.  The Shadow Court and the Hellfire Club are also watching the action with interest.  And the Terror comes to the galaxy.<br />This novel is very much a satire on modern society, where image is everything and even the highest level of peacekeepers, the Paragons, give autographs and maintain web sites for their fans.  The King is just a figurehead with little power and Members of Parliament divide the riches of the Empire among themselves.  Arenas stage daily duels to the death and other deadly sports, but hardly anyone is killed beyond regeneration.  This is the Golden Age ... according to the media.<br />This novel sets up the background for the sequels that will surely follow.  Thus, it is not very much fun until the last chapter or so, when Lewis stops being such a nice guy.  <br />The story also provides a love interest;  in fact, too much love interest:  Douglas loves Jasmine and Jasmine love Lewis and Lewis loves Jasmine.  Just to complicate the triangle further, Douglas and Lewis love and respect each other better that brothers.  <br />For British readers, this book will surely provide a few laughs from parochial puns;  I got the one about Emma Steel, but I only suspect others.  There are also moments of action that recall the Avengers, but with blood and guts.<br />This novel has touches of Star Wars, particularly Episode 2, in the description of Logres at night from a gravity sled and the Esper city of New Hope hanging in the air.  There is also the element of forbidden love, which echoes Lancelot and Guinevere, and the general feeling of decadence.<br />Recommended for Deathstalker fans and anyone who enjoyed Green's other action and intrigue stories.	2003-02-02
1244133:US	49390985	R2MORV8IFBLDUT	0312873360	736479780	To the King a Daughter (Cycle of Oak, Yew, Ash, and Rowan, Book 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Time of Decline	To the King a Daughter (2000) is the first volume in the Cycle of Oak, Yew, Ash and Rowan trilogy.  This new fantasy series describes the history of Rendel during the period after the strike of the great thunder-star has freed the Great Foulness.  Once there were four great powers in the world -- Oak, Yew, Ash, and Rowan -- but time and war have reduced these powers to shadows of their former glory.  The King of Oak is a drunken lout, the Queen of Yew is a magical schemer, and Ash and Rowan are nearly dead.    In this novel, a woman pregnant with the King's daughter, and Ash's heir, flees to the Bale Bog, there to give birth and die.  The newborn is named Ashen Deathdaughter by Zazar, the Wysen-wyf who delivers her.  Ashen is raised as Zazar's apprentice, doing lessons and chores and running through the boglands.  Since she is an Outlander, the bog-folk would, by custom, have tossed her into the nearest bog, but Zazar protects her.  As she grows older, the young men are somewhat ambivalent about her, both attracted and repelled.    The soldiers of the Yew who have followed Ashen's mother's party believe that the pregnant woman has been lost in the mire, which would surely please the Queen, for now there would be no others to dispute her son's right to the throne.  Of course, the young prince is only concerned at this time with bargaining for a pony of his own and, as he grows older, he learns that visits to his ill father are worth plum pudding for desert.  So like his father, Queen Ysa thinks, but there is still time to train him to loftier pursuits.      In the far north, the only city of the Sea-Rovers has been destroyed by the tsunami following the thunder-star strike.  The surviving ships rendezvous with their High Chief, Snorri, in the land of the Nordens, but then sail on to establish a new city on some hospitable shore;  to repay the kindness shown them, the Sea-Rovers transport a Norden emissary, Count Bjauden, to Rendel.  Unfortunately, after near three years of battles, the Sea-Rovers are driven out of their new lands by a enemy from the northern ice regions and they have to flee again, this time to the Ashenhold in Rendel.  Snorri's son, Obern, is sent ahead to scout and to find a safe harbor.    In Rendel, Queen Ysa spins her webs and, after she gains the four great rings of Oak, Yew, Ash and Rowan, uses their magic to forward her plots.  She has virtual control of everyone in Rendel...except her own son.  Indeed, the young Prince, out of spite, commissions one of the house servants to assassinate Count Bjauden and leave his body in a ruined city in the Bog.    This series is based on an archetype in many religions, the weavers of lifelines, who have been known in various times and places as the Fates, the Norns, Brigit, and other names.  Certain trees are significant to most of the Western European religions, but the mythos of the Oak, Yew, Ash, and Rowan is specific to the old religions of the British Isles and France, particularly to what is now known as Wicca.  Thus, the background of this story is drawn from the mythology of Pre-Christian Europe that has figured so prominently in other Norton stories.  However, the story overlays this religious context on the architecture, dress, customs and mores of Western Europe of about the 14th century CE, yet with neither the influence of Rome nor the competition between England and France.    Sasha Miller has previously contributed a story to Norton's On the Wings of Magic anthology in The Turning series of Witch World related writings.  She has also written Ladylord, a fantasy novel similar in plot, but not treatment, to Moore's Jirel of Joiry.  Insofar as I am aware, this is the first novel that she has co-authored with Norton.    Recommended for Norton fans and anyone who enjoys war, magic and feudal politics in a fantasy setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-02-01
1244270:US	49390985	RZUUIA710BZ2A	0312873379	90930605	Knight or Knave (The Cycle of Oak, Yew, Ash, and Rowan; Book 2)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The Enemy Prepares	Knight or Knave is the second novel in the Cycle of Oak, Yew, Ash, and Rowan series.  In the previous volume, Ysa's magic has brought Zazar, Ashen, and herself together for introductions.  The Sea-Rovers have settled New Vold in Ashenhold lands.  Ashen Deathdaughter and Obern have been brought to Cragden Keep by Count Harous, who gives Ashen gifts and hints of her mother.  The Bog-folk have begun to attack Rendelian lands.  King Boroth has died, after claiming Ashen as his daughter.<br />In this volume, Florian has become the King, succeeding his father, and, under pressure of his mother and various nobles of the court, has married Rannore, whom he has made pregnant.  Ashen meets Queen Ysa and moves into Rendelsham Castle.  Ysa sends a messenger to New Vold to inform Snorri know of her son's wedding, to let him that his son, Obern, is alive, and to invite him to visit her at a later date.  In the unseasonable cold, the Bog-folk have taken to attacking New Vold for food.<br />Ashen has met a priest in the Great Fane of the Glowing, who informed Obern and herself of the history of Rendel.  Meeting again in the fane, the priest, Esander, shows her a great library hidden deep under Rendelsham which contains many volumes of magical lore.  As directed by Zazar, she does not yet attempt any of the magics, although she studies the lore diligently.<br />Snorri arrives in time for Florian's wedding and, after the ceremony, he tells Obern of the death of his wife, Naeve.  Upon discovering that Ashen has been abducted, Obern mounts a rescue effort and then asks for her hand in marriage;  his request is granted.  After the wedding, Ashen meets the new emissary of the Nordens, Gaurin, son of Count Bjauden, who tells her that his father has never returned from his mission to Rendel and that she wears his father's bracelet, which she had found on a skeleton in some ruins within the boglands.  He takes the bracelet, breathes on it -- which causes it to glow briefly -- and returns it, telling her to put it on and think of him if she is ever in need on anything.  Obern and Ashen travel to New Vold, where she meets his son, Rohan.  <br />In the northlands, ominous forces are gathering.  The Foul One is preparing for the invasion of Rendel.<br />Some reviewers seem  disappointed that this series is not like the Witch World or Time Traders series.  Yet those series were intended as juveniles for the most part, whereas this series is for more mature readers.  Those series were mostly focused on singleton or paired characters, whereas this series deals with a larger cast of interacting protagonists.  Hints of this series can be seen in the tales of Escore, High Hallek, and the Dales, and especially in the Gryphon stories.  Indeed, Shadow Hawk, one of Norton's earliest stories, is a tale of courtly intrigue. <br />Recommended for Norton and Miller fans and anyone who enjoys court intrigue in a fantasy setting.	2003-02-01
1246158:US	49390985	R3GJGCKJPFQUWU	0553801511	130881552	Golden Fool (The Tawny Man, Book 2)	Books	5	2	6	N	N	Who's the Fool Now?	The Golden Fool is the second novel in the Tawny Man series, following Fool's Errand. In the previous volume, FitzChivalry Farseer pretended to be Lord Golden's servant while they try to recover Prince Dutiful from a band of Piebald kidnappers led by Laudwine. They met a number of the Witted and learned much about the dangers facing the Old Blood. Eventually, they are found by the kidnappers and confined with the Prince. They discovered that Dutiful's cat is possessed by a dead woman. Fitz killed the cat at its own request and, when Laudwine attacks him, cut off the Piebald leader's forearm. Fitz held off the Piebalds until the Old Bloods rescue them. Fitz's wolf, Nighteyes, was wounded and died soon thereafter. As the Prince mourned his cat and Fitz mourned Nighteyes, they returned with the Fool to Buckkeep castle.<br />In this novel, Fitz is still pretending to be Tom Badgerlock, Lord Golden's servant. The Piebalds have found him again and have left reminders of their presence.  Fitz reluctantly agrees to teach Prince Dutiful the Skill and soon has other students.  Dutiful remains friends with Civil, despite evident complicity of the Bresinga family in the Piebalds kidnapping plot.  Laurel, the Queen's Huntswoman, also is getting hints from Piebald agents.  The Piebalds have become even more active in the rural areas, murdering Witted families in their sleep when they refuse to cooperate.  Moreover, the common folk are still lynching Witted suspects in the other Duchies.<br />Despite all these problems related to the Witted, Fitz and his friend still have to deal with Dutiful's formal betrothal to the Narcheska Elliania.  She is accompanied by her uncle, Peottre, as is the Outisland custom, and her father, Arkon Bloodblade, whose cronies have also come with the Narcheska. In their entourage is a serving woman, Henja, who is not what she appears to be. <br />Then there is the delegation of merchants from Bingtown, who want to ally with the Six Duchies against Chalced.  This is an interesting connection with The Liveship Traders series that may well figure prominantly in the last volume of the trilogy.<br />Just to make things more complicated, Fitz has quarreled with the Fool, and now the Fool only treats him as would Lord Golden.  One wonders whether they are both acting the Fool.<br />Recommended for Hobb fans and anyone who enjoys tales of adventure and intrigue in a fantasy setting.<br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2003-01-31
1247538:US	49390985	R2U8AI92ISVKBE	0743412338	209608496	Sir Apropos of Nothing	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Apropos the Non-hero	Sir Apropos of Nothing is the first novel in a new fantasy series.  Apropos is a child of gang rape whose mother is a serving girl in a country tavern, occasionally earning a little extra on the side.   His mother claims to have seen a Phoenix immolated and risen from the ashes, a portentous event which she has been told is an omen of destiny, either of death or birth;  thus, she knows that the birth of Apropos was destined and that he will surely find greatness, despite his withered leg.  As a newborn, he certainly impressed the tavern owner with his full set of teeth...by chomping him right in the neck.  When the midwife announces that the action is apropos, the tavern owner names him that on the spot and then leaves to get his bleeding neck treated.    Apropos attracts the attention of many in his formative years, usually children flinging taunts and playing pranks on the crippled boy.  He is protected, however, by Tacit, a boy clearly destined to be a knight in shining armor, so Apropos becomes his sidekick.  Tacit teaches him all sorts of useful things, like how to steal and how to rescue a girl being burned at the stake.  The first lesson bothered Apropos not at all, but the latter struck him as idiotic, not to mention foolhardy;  however, the girl, Sharee, a weaver of magic, was to play a prominent role in his life thereafter.  Tacit also pointed out to Apropos the Keepless King, Meander the Vagabond, who was also fated to cross paths with Apropos in later years.    After Apropos comes home to find his murdered mother's corpse, he attracts the attention of Astel, who blames him for all that has gone wrong in his mother's life and then couples with him, becoming his first woman.  After the funeral, she accompanies him to his money stash and, after knocking him unconscious with his mother's funeral urn, steals the money.  That kind of thing can put you off trusting women!    This novel is unclassifiable;  a heroic fantasy starring a man who despises all the heroic virtues,  a comedy with very horrific moments, and, of course, a collection of truly unmentionable puns.  While having read only the first Flashman novel, I can see merely superficial resemblances with Apropos;  Flashman strikes me as an emotionally deficient individual whereas Apropos could be described as emotionally delayed.  Flashman and Apropos may have been much the same at some point in their lives, but Apropos has continued to grow, albeit very slowly, whereas Flashman is no longer capable of emotional growth.  Apropos has some empathy and a sense of compassion that he keeps under strict control;  Flashman only has a sense that what is good for him is right and what is bad for him is wrong.    Apropos is definitely not a hero, but I believe Apropos is neither an anti-hero nor, except in the technical sense of a lowborn person, a villain.  I believe that Apropos is a non-hero, for he detests acts of courage, yet fights back against his enemies, and he derides defenders of the innocent, yet rescues his friends, and he despises charity, yet protects the royal fool.  A man of contradictions, but not really a loser nor a predator on mankind.  Maybe someone like you and me.    Recommended for Peter David fans and anyone who likes a good, but zany, story.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-01-30
1247715:US	49390985	R2II1YDEK1YCML	0553582445	130881552	Fool's Errand (Tawny Man #1)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The White Prophet Returns	Fool's Errand is the first novel in the Tawny Man trilogy.  It continues the storyline described in the The Farseer and The Liveship Traders trilogies.  In The Farseer trilogy, FitzChivalry Farseer, the Assassin's Assistant, has literally risen from the grave and disappeared with his wolf, Nighteyes, from the Six Duchies.  Only Starling Birdsong, the Queen's Minstel, knows who and where he is.    In this novel, FitzChivalry is known as Tom Badgerlock and is living with his adopted son, Hap, when his past life calls upon him in the form of Chade Fallstar, the Royal Assassin.  His old mentor comes with news of family and friends and a request that Fitz return to Buckkeep Castle to tutor Prince Dutiful in the Skill.  Fitz declines and and Chade returns to Buckkeep the following day.     In the following months, Starling and Jinna the hedgewitch visit him and even the Fool returns for a while;  the White Prophet and his Catalyst together again.  After many days of exchanging the news, the Fool leaves and, some days later, Hap returns from working the harvests, disappointed in the life of a laborer.  Then, a message comes from Chade urgently requesting that Fitz come to him in Buckkeep.  Wanting to go to Buckkeep anyway to arrange an apprenticeship for Hap, Fitz and Hap travel with Nighteyes to the Castle.      In Buckkeep town, Fitz finds the Fool, posing as Lord Golden, waiting to guide him to Chade, who informs him that Prince Dutiful has disappeared.  While there is no evidence of foul play, Dutiful may have been lured away and kidnapped by the Piebalds, a group that uses exposure of their fellow Witted to gain power, for someone has sent a note claiming that Dutiful is Witted.  Chade arranges an apprenticeship for Hap and Fitz and the Fool go looking for kidnappers.    This new trilogy promises to take us even further into the backstory of the Six Duchies, especially in the nature of the Skill, Witted and other powers.    Recommended for Hobb fans and anyone who enjoys tales of mystery and talent in a fantasy setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-01-30
1249541:US	49390985	R2LWFNBA6219M5	0061050695	855921456	Magic Time: Angelfire	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Follow That Bluesman	Angelfire is the second novel in the Magic Time trilogy.  In the previous volume, Secret Service Agent Shango had discovered the remains of Agent Bilmer and returned to a changed Washington to find nobody to whom he could report his findings.  Moreover, he had discovered evidence that the President had been killed.  In Boone's Gap, Cal and his friends had discovered a spectral Fred Wishart protecting his brother, Bob, from the failure of his life support systems.  While Cal and Tina were trying to negotiate with Fred, an attack by the local grunters had distracted Fred and the Source had broken through to take Tina as well as Fred.<br />In this novel, Goldie is feeling a tug from the west and north and the group is following his erratic directions as they search for Tina.  Outside of the town of Grave Creek, the group encountered a new type of creature, shadowed as by dark veils, who are attacking other travelers.  After driving off the attackers, Goldie learns that some of the travelers have heard some sort of music as they went through the woods.  <br />The next day, Goldie, followed by Colleen, goes out to the woods to discover the source of the music.  Although Colleen can't hear it, Goldie tracks it down the Bluesman, Enid Blindman, half Lakota on his father's side, and a flare, Magritte.  When Colleen tries to attack Enid, the Flare throws her up into a pine tree and she is stuck upside down above head high.  Nevetheless, Colleen insists that she had not seen a Flare near the Bluesman and suggests that maybe Goldie is having hallucinations;  Collen is having a hard time accepting the unthinkable.  Later, Goldie finds Enid and Magritte again, but they spook when Cal and company show up.  When the group have almost caught up to them again, Enid and Magritte disappear into the &quot;porch&quot; of a burial mound and Goldie walks into the solid rock to follow them.<br />Goldie comes out in the Preserve, a fold in space protected from the Source;  Goldie explains the nature of their quest and points out that Enid and Magritte can protect the group from the Source.  However, the leaders of the community are not convinced that Enid should be released to help them;  after all, he is already helping them to avoid the Source and only he can let people through the entranceways to the Preserve.  Nevertheless, events allow Enid and Magritte to join them, with the first stop in Chicago, where Enid needs to talk to his manager.<br />In some respects, this story resembles Brook's Knight of the Word series without the visions.  However, the towns and terrain in this series have suffered much more drastic damage and rearrangements.  Also, the series is intrinsically a group effort, with each contributing a necessary skill or talent to the whole.<br />In this novel, the choppy flow of the previous novel has been smoothed out, with the point-of-view moving between the four main characters.  Sometimes I forget who I am in a chapter, but I am usually able to recover by the process of elimination, so maybe there is still a little chop in the flow.<br />I also had a little trouble with the geography -- I know, why did I bother? -- so I had to check the web to discover that Grave Creek is in West Virginia and that Put-in-Bay is in Ohio.  However, the story did state that the Preserve is near Delaware, Ohio.<br />Recommended for Brooks fans and anyone who enjoys magical quests.	2003-01-28
1249796:US	49390985	RK3G0WTZ4B9JE	0061050687	478299637	Magic Time	Books	4	5	7	N	N	The Day the Lights Went Out	Magic Time is the first novel in a new trilogy in which the nature of reality changes, precluding complex technology such as airplanes and guns, but supporting magical seeming forces.  The story has some of the feel of Hambly's Traveling With the Dead, but the basic premise is more like that of Saberhagen's Empire of the East series or Anvil's novel The Day the Machines Stopped, where physical laws are changed by a technological device.<br />In the novel, mutilated buffalo are found near Medicine Water Creek, South Dakota, and a nearby government project discovers another leak from the Source.  Fred Wishart is awakened for the emergency meeting, but then returns to bed to dream of his brother Bob.  Yet another leak occurs while he is asleep, only this one doesn't stop.<br />In Boone's Gap, West Virginia, Bob Wishart is enjoying a visit from his brother Fred when the electricity fails.  The same electrical failure hits the Applby mine, taking out even the miners' helmet lights.<br />In New York City, Cal Griffin is an associate in the law firm of Stern, Ledding, and Bowen.  On the morning that reality changes, he discovers that he still owns a conscience and is not looking forward to the morning staff meeting, especially with his daughter Tina accompanying him, but is saved by something like an earthquake with an electrical blackout.  Goldy, a mole in the NY tunnel community, is having a really bad premonition about the day and tells Cal keep his head down.  Colleen Brooks wakes up to another morning with Rory before she goes to her maintenance job in the Stern, Ledding, and Bowen Building and Rory stretches out for a hard day of TV watching.  After the change, Cal and Tina join Colleen in escorting people out of the building.<br />Outside Kansas City, Secret Service Agent Jerri Bilmer is returning to Washington after an undercover investigation of the Source project, but, as her plane begins the final approach, a light flashes in the sky and planes begin to fall outthe air.<br />In Washington, the President of the USA is waiting for the return of Agent Bilmer.  When the lights go out in DC and stay that way, he sends two other agents searching for her.<br />Not only are the lights out, but people are changing.  A touch of humor in Chapter Seven has a secretary telling Cal that Stern is \\"breathing fire\\" and later Stern starts turning into a dragon.  Tina becomes a Flare, or Angel, a flying being surrounded by a luminous aura, like a large Tinkerbell without wings.<br />Cal, Tina and Colleen join with Goldie and Doc, a Russian physician who sells hot dogs on the street, in a quest to discover the cause of the change.  Unknown to them, their first goal is Boone's Gap.<br />I've got to agree with other reviewers regarding the choppy flow of the story.  Probably Zicree visualized it as a series of short scenes within a full-length movie;  however, a book doesn't provide the rich background of a film that helps orient the viewer to the locale.  Nevertheless, it does convey a sense of simultaneity that heightens the effect.<br />Recommended to Hambly and Saberhagen fans and anyone who enjoys urban fantasy and supernatural quests.	2003-01-28
1250776:US	49390985	R2QVPR0U4YG6EQ	0756400155	307383176	Between Darkness and Light (Sholan Alliance)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Dealing With the [Darkness]	Between Darkness and Light is the seventh novel in the Sholan Alliance series, following Stronghold Rising.  The initial work in this series is [[ASIN:0886775752 Turning Point]].    In the previous volume, Kusac had taken a Brotherhood team to Kij'ik, General Kezule's asteroid base, and transported a group of Sholan hybrid telepathic cubs back to Haven.  He had then returned to Kij'ik with most of his team to assist Kezule in establishing a balanced Prime society.  Annur, the Sept leader on Rryuk's Profit, had detached the engine section of the ship and attacked a M'zullian warship carrying the lost matter compiler.    In this novel, Kusac is determined to discover the parentage of Shaidan, the remaining hybrid telepath;  the cub's scent suggests that Kusac is the father and Zayshul, a Prime female, is the mother.  He discovers that his powerful sexual obsession with Zayshul is the result of scent marking, which Valtegan females do to designate their mates;  the scent marking also suggests to other females that he is a satisfactory lover, so the Valtegan females keep flirting with him.  His leadership of the team is constantly being Challenged by the xenophobic Dzaou, a sleeper Brother from the far past, who despises and hates him as a Valtegan-lover.  Moreover, his psionic powers are returning in erratic surges.  Despite all this, Kusac initiates Brotherhood style training for the Prime civilians as well as the Warriors.    On Ghioass, the TeLaxaudin homeworld, the TeLaxaudins and Cabbarans of the Camarilla gather to consider the results of Annur's actions and to evaluate the future possibilities.  Despite isolationist arguments, they decide to continue to intervene in the lives of their Children species.  They convey the Camarilla decision to Giyarishis, their TeLaxaudin agent on the Kij'ik, and provide him with an assistant.    On Shola, Alien Relations has received a human telepath, Conner, in a cyro pod from an obscure college in the British Isles.  AlRel's researches into the matter find that a merlin is a small hawk and that Druids were supposedly wiped out during the time of the Roman invasion.  At first, Noni treats Conner in a her usual deprecatory manner, but Conner soon establishes parity with her and they become comfortable together.  Meanwhile, Carrie receives a visit from the Rryuk Matriarch concerning the mating of Giyesh and Jeran.    On K'oish'ik, the only surviving member of the Directorate, K'hedduk, plots against the Emperor.  The Sholan Ambassador and his Brotherhood advisors discover that the Prime homeworld has also suffered greatly in the Cataclysm and that poverty is the rule outside the City of Light.    This novel extends the interspecies sexual couplings of the previous works to the Valtegans, a non-mammalian species.  Possibly Norman is trying to show the provincialism of the Terrans?  Nevertheless, the various interspecies sexual encounters do seem to be driven by the plot rather than being gratuitous affairs.  Will Norman extend the sexual pairings to the TeLexaudins?  Is it even possible?    Recommended for all Norman fans and anyone who enjoys tales of personal and interpersonal development in a SF setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-01-27
1251279:US	49390985	R210I18F8I7GAF	0886778980	509660779	Stronghold Rising (Sholan Alliance)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Hard Recovery	Stronghold Rising is the sixth novel in the Sholan Alliance series, following Dark Nadir.  The initial work in this series is [[ASIN:0886775752 Turning Point]].    In the previous volume, the U'Churian ship, Rryuk's Profit, has been captured by the Valtegan ship M,ijikk, commanded by the former Overlord of Keiss, M'ezozakk, and the M,ijikk has been captured in turn by the Prime ship Kz'adul.    On the Kz'adul, the Profit group have awakened to find themselves confined in a suite of rooms guarded by Primes concealed in armored suits.  Periodically, the telepaths in the group are taken while the others are asleep and subjected to medical examination and sampling.  Both Carrie and Kusac have been taken aboard the Kz'adul, but hidden from their friends.  Kusac has been awakened, implanted with a telepathic suppression device, and interrogated, even tortured, by J'koshuk, a Valtegan priest.  Shortly thereafter, Carrie has been returned to the others, but Kusac has been retained for more testing and conditioning.  Eventually Kaid has initiated an escape to Haven, a Brotherhood asteroid base, with the Kz'adul in pursuit.  During the escape, they have discovered that the Primes are also Valtegans, although a different breed than those on Keiss, and have taken an important hostage, Prince Zsurtul, who they have interrogated while enroute to learn much new information about the Valtegan situation.    On Shola, Brynne has been having vivid dreams and found an unexpected lifemate.  Konis has survived a political crisis in the Clan Council regarding Kitra's betrothal.  Ruth and the kids have been invited to the Touiban home for a meal.  General Kezule has drugged Kirta with la'quo and tried to force her to send him to the past, but she used the power of the drug to overload his mind into unconsciousness;  moreover, the drug has also induced a leska link between Kitra and Dzaka.  The recaptured Kezule has been taken to Haven by Carrie and Kaid.  There the Prince and General havebeen exchanged for Kusac, but not without violence.    In this novel, Kusac returns home, but has only a small fraction of his telepathic skills remaining.  The TeLaxaudins, Cabarrans and Touibans combine their skills to remove the implant and damaged tissues, to restore the nerves, and to provide feedback to allow control of the restored abilities.  However, the la'quo present in his body has caused loss of memory which only gradually is being restored through vivid flashbacks and dreams.  While his memories are incomplete, Kusac cannot use his abilities.  He does not want to be near Carrie or Kaid, especially when they link, for fear they will share his pain and bad dreams.    About six months later, the Sholans have learned more about the Primes, who have not lost their technology in the Cataclysm, and have had long standing contacts with the Free Traders through the spaceport on Jalna.  The Primes have readily agreed to a treaty with the Sholan Alliance and have freely ceded ownership of the four asteroid bases used by the Brotherhood.    On K'oiosh'ik, Kezule is extremely popular at court, but the crusty General isn't happy being a courtier.  His genes have been used to produce 100 sons and 20 daughters in growth tanks, where their development has been forced to the equivalent of 10 years old;  since this was done without his consent, he isn't very happy about this either, but somehow he is comfortable with the results.  He encounters a group who are plotting to overthrow the Emperor and would like him to be their figurehead, but he doesn't want to be Emperor.  He strings them along, but promptly puts his sons on the case, checking out names and positions.  When he gets enough information, he attacks their facilities and personnel, then reports the matter to the Emperor.  Shortly thereafter, he takes some of his children, together with about a number of associates, and sneaks off to a large asteroid base, which he finds partially restored.  There, he experiments with a more balanced Prime society, but has little success.    The Brotherhood have started training some of their allies at Stronghold, including some Valtegan Warriors, with fair success.  Kezule sends a message requesting Kusac to come to the base, hoping to add the Sholan training techniques to his efforts.  The Brotherhood asks Kusac to head a secret mission to find out what the General is doing.    This novel is somewhat more difficult to read since it combines flashbacks to a previous period to the multi-threaded storyline, dreams, visions, divine visits, and other plot devices.  Nevertheless, it is harder to describe than to comprehend;  just go with the flow.    Recommended for all Norman fans and anyone who enjoys tales of personal and interpersonal development in a SF setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-01-27
1253454:US	49390985	R2FZOVYU4Z68V3	0786928042	926952674	The Thousand Orcs (Forgotten Realms:  The Hunter's Blades Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Goblinkin Hordes Are Coming	The Thousand Orcs is the first novel in The Hunter's Blades trilogy.  In this Forgotten Realms story, four drow have convinced King Obould Many-Arrows to ally his orcs with Gerti Orelsdottr's frost giants.  In their initial joint raid, a band of twenty orcs and two frost giants attack a dwarf caravan from Citadel Felbarr, killing all but two of the dwarves.  Then a band of a hundred orcs and four frost giants level the village of Clicking Heels.    When Bruenor receives word that Gandalug Battlehammer has died, he leaves Icewind Dale to return to Mithral Hall.  He is accompanied by Regis, Wulfgar, Catta-brie, Drizzt Do'Urden, and a small army of dwarves.  First they detour to Mirabar to agitate the dwarves there and then to the Fell Pass, where they run into the survivors of the dwarf caravan.  They track down and destroy the band of giants and orcs that had attacked Clicking Heels, alert Mithral Hall to the danger, and set out to warn Shallows town.  Obould and Gerti soon learn of the presence of Bruenor in Shallows and sent a band of ten giants and a thousand orcs to bring back his head.    Meanwhile, back in Mirabar, Marchion Elastul is showing his paranoia and enraging some of his dwarves, particularly Torgar Delzoun Hammerstriker.    This new series by Salvatore describes a massive attack of goblinkin and giants against the humans, dwarves and elves.  Drizzt is in the vanguard of the defense, alone except for Gwenhwyvar, and not even knowing whether his friends are still alive.    Maybe the negative reviews on this novel are a kind of backhanded compliment to the popularity of Drizzt and his companions.  I don't see why people get so bent out of shape over an adventure fantasy?  Of course, Drizzt and his best friends are not likely to be bumped off;  what series ever did that?  What, you point to the New Jedi Order series?  Hey, you forgot about the Demonwars series!  Maybe Salvatore WILL terminate his most popular character!  But you will have to read the other two books in the series to find out!  Hee hee hee.    For those of you who live only for the fighting, get used to character development.  Salvatore is obviously going to continue to develop his main characters, hopefully with less agonizing and more swordfighting than Hamlet, but these personalities are definitely going to change.    Recommended for Salvatore fans and anyone who enjoys desperate swordfights against impossible odds.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-01-25
1254005:US	49390985	R13461JCYYXI20	0886778298	617247533	Dark Nadir (Sholan Alliance)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Struggle of Wills	Dark Nadir is the fifth novel in the Sholan Alliance series, following Razor's Edge.  The initial work in this series is [[ASIN:0886775752 Turning Point]].    In the previous volume, Captain Tirak of the U'Churian ship, the Rryuk's Profit, has encountered a mixed leska pair at the Chemerian home world.  The two had been kidnapped by the Valtegans, rescued by the Chemerians, and then refused permission to leave Chemeria.  Carrie and Kusac have ejected the abrasive leader of the archaeology team from their estate at the request of the Touibans, another species in the Sholan Alliance.    Later, Carrie, Kusac, Kaid and their team have have infiltrated the spaceport on Jalna in the Chemerian ship Hkariyashi and have rescued most of the Keissans and Sholans.  However, Carrie has been badly wounded and both Carrie and Kusac have been placed in cyro pods on the Rryuk's Profit.  Then the Hkariyashi and the Profit departed for the Chemerian home world, leaving the spaceport in the hands of their Jalnian ally, Lord Tarolyn.    On Shola, General Kezule has escaped in order to force Carrie and Kusac to return him to his own time.  He has killed Zhyaf during the escape, causing Mara to start to die with her leska partner;  Vanna, however, has managed to save Mara's life by transferring the leska link to Josh.  Esken has been struck down with a heart seizure and has resigned as Master of the Telepaths Guild;  Sorli has been selected to replace him.    In this novel, the Sholan ship Rhijissoh travels to Jalna to institute first contact negotiations.  Onboard the Rryuk's Profit, Kaid meets the ship's navigators, a Carraban sept, for the first time.  Kaid and Tirak exchange information and determine that both the Sholan Alliance and the Free Traders have been greatly deceived by the Chemerians.  Then, the Profit is attacked by a Valtegan ship M,ijikk, which is commanded by the former Overlord of Keiss, M'ezozakk.  Since this former Overlord had tortured and killed Carrie's twin sister, Eloise, Kaid ejects both cyro pods to protect Carrie and Kuzac from the Valtegans.    This novel expands the number of species directly involved in the action.  Some have been previously mentioned as part of the Sholan Alliance and others are part of the newly discovered Free Traders.  The novel also introduces a new set of Valtegans, the Primes.    I have to admit that I am becoming confused over the personal and species names, not to mention the numerous ships.  I can always figure it out after a while, but it distracts from the story.  Maybe Norman could add an appendix or two for us memory challenged types.    Recommended for all Norman fans and anyone who enjoys tales of personal and interpersonal development in a SF setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-01-24
1254701:US	49390985	RHQEPVVOIQN7H	0886777666	212842846	Razor's Edge (Sholan Alliance)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Finally the Mission	Razor's Edge is the fourth novel in the Sholan Alliance series, following Fire Margins.  The initial work in this series is [[ASIN:0886775752 Turning Point]].    In the previous volume, Kiad formed a Triad with Carrie and Kusac and they have walked the Fire Margins.  This trance state has taken them back in time to just before the Cataclysm, where they have met ancient Sholans, including one who will become the god Vartra.  They have also sent Tallinu, a young cub who will become Kaid, forward in time to be raised as a foundling and have brought back the Valtegan General, Kezule, and his dupe Kyak to Khezi'ipik, the ancient Valtegan hatching grounds.  Kyak has been faced with the Valtegan who had pretended to be his god and caused him to raise a jihad, the Elders have declared Kyak a false prophet, and the desert tribes have repudiated the Kezule worshippers.  Kaid has Challenged Ghezu, Guildmaster of the Brotherhood, for his treasonous acts.  The Fire Margins have advanced Carrie's pregnancy, so Kaid and Kusac have delivered the cub in an aircar on the way home from the desert.    On Jalna, a Keissan team, with Sholan support, has penetrated Lord Killian's castle to find the contents of a wrecked Valtegan shuttle.  There they accidentally release two Sholans, Rezac and Zashou, from a stasis capsule where they have been trapped since the time of the Cataclysm.  Before they could escape, the team was detected and held captive by the Jalnians.    In this novel, the recon team on Jalna pretends to rebuild the shuttle laser system while awaiting rescue and Rezac has vivid dreams of his life prior to the Cataclysm.  On Shola, the Brotherhood interrogates General Kezule and plants an agent, Keeza Lassah, in his cell.  The En'shalla Clan is formally recognized by the Clan Council and is ceded the long abandoned Valsgarth estate;  Kusac and Carrie are the Clan Lords and the clan members include all current and future mixed Leska pairs as well as the Vartra Brothers previously assigned as guardians for such pairs.  Kusac formally registers Kaid as the third of their Triad and the three of them start planning for a rescue operation on Jalna.  Kiad is troubled as his early childhood memories resurface and, having more visions of Vartra as both the man and the god, he moves to Stronghold to resolve his conflicts.  A human archaeological team moves onto the estate and supervises the monastery dig.    This novel bridges the transition from the personal problems of the En'shalla clan members to the interstellar problems of the Sholan Alliance.  Now that the immediate problems are solved, or at least being managed, the En'shalla Clan begins to fulfill their function as special operatives for Alien Relations.  Obviously, their first mission will be to Jalna.    A reviewer has noted that story lines start in one book and are resolved in a later volume.  First, this is a technique used by accomplished writers to ease the readers into situations instead of dropping them -- kerplunk -- into a new complication without warning.  Second, this technique mirrors real life, where most problems start small and are only solved -- assuming that they are solved -- after a great deal of hand-waving, finger-pointing, head-scratching, and so forth.     Another reviewer has questioned the term \\"gestalt\\".  It is a German world used by the Gestalt School of perceptual psychology to refer to \\"the whole is greater than the sum of the parts\\" phenomena in pattern recognition;  for example, a smiley face is recognizable as a face even by very young infants, yet it lacks many of the characteristics of a human face.  Thus, Carrie and Kusac can form a relationship that is much stronger together than as individuals.    Recommended for all Norman fans and anyone who enjoys tales of interpersonal relationships and problem solving in a SF setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-01-24
1256609:US	49390985	R1YPIVHE8MRTVV	0812534964	88647019	The Long Hunt (Mageworlds #5)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Two Men and a Selvaur	The Long Hunt (1996) is the fifth book written in the Mageworlds series, but is the seventh, and last to date, in internal chronological sequence.  It takes place a couple of decades after [[ASIN:0812517067 By Honor Betray'd]].    Faral Hyfid-Metada has completed his Long Hunt and must leave Maraghai soon to gain honor, but the elders don't seem to be in any hurry to kick him off-planet.  Then his cousin Jens Metada-Jessan decides to go off-world, so Faral and their Selvaur friend, Chaka, go with him.  They first head toward the Mageworlds, but are diverted to Khesat, Jens native planet, after an kidnapping attempt on Ophel.  Jens and Faral are pursued on Ophel and off-world by members of the Green Sun gang and following behind them are Klea Santreny, an Adept, and Mael Taleion, a Mage, tracking down a disturbance in the eiran.  Meanwhile, the Highest of Khesat has been poisoned and the political maneuvering is complex and fierce.    This novel is a coming of age story, in which Jens has his own Long Hunt to pursue on Khesat.  It differs greatly from the other Mageworlds novels, with more resemblance to The Three Musketeers in tone and scope, but with enjoyments and charms of its own.  Recommended for Mageworlds fans and anyone who enjoys tales of youthful adventure and political intrigue.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-01-22
1257047:US	49390985	R3JOR88I95T7KS	0812517067	135796342	By Honor Betray'd: Mageworlds #3	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Convergence of Forces	By Honor Betray'd (1994) is the third novel written in the original Mageworlds trilogy.  At this time, however, it is the sixth of the series in internal chronological sequence, following [[ASIN:0812517059 Starpilot's Grave]].  In the previous book, the Magelords have taken Galcen, the marines have joined Jos Metada, Commodore Jervas Gil has pulled together the Mageworlds fleet at Ophel, Ari Rosselin-Metada has fled Admiral Vallant to Gyffer, Llannat Hyfid has brought her motley crew and the deathwing Night's-Beautiful-Daughter to Gyffer, and Beka Rosselin-Metada has declared herself as the new Domina of Lost Entibor and the focal point of the resistance.  Moreover, Owen Rosselin-Metada has found Errec Ransome imprisoned by the Mages, has proven his mastery, and has to been told to retrieve his staff and claim the Guild Mastership.    In this novel, Grand Admiral Theio syn-Ricte sus-Airaalin tries to break Errec's defenses, but fails.  At Gyffer, Ari and Llannat join with local defense forces against Admiral Vallant and the Mages.  Within Infabede sector, Jos captures warships from Vallant and decides to attack Galcen.  At Suivi Point, Beka incorporates the local RSF squadron into the resistance fleet, Tarveet of Pleyver takes out a treason contract against her, and Ignaceu LeSoit breaks several regulations, and the docks, getting Warhammer away from Contract Security.  On Nammerin, Owen and his apprentice, Klea Santreny, take ship to Pleyver to fight Mages.  At Waycross on Innish-Kyl, Commodore Gil negotiates with former privateers to form a fleet around his three capital ships.    The Grand Admiral knows that he has a little cleaning up to do, but believes that the war is almost won.  However, the resistance is gathering.  All these forces, Republic and Mage, are converging on Gyffer.  Should be a slam-bang fight.      This concluding volume of the original trilogy certainly brought everything to a boil, but the final plot twist is a humdinger.  Recommended for Mageworlds fans and anyone who enjoys stories of interstellar war and intrigue.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-01-22
1257548:US	49390985	R122L607M3N1RI	0886777186	462704692	Fire Margins (Sholan Alliance)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Becoming a Triad	Fire Margins is the third novel in the Sholan Alliance series, following Fortune's Wheel.  The initial work in this series is [[ASIN:0886775752 Turning Point]].    In the previous novel, Vanna has saved the lives of Carrie and Kusac when they suffer Contact Deprivation and Kaid has saved Carrie from an impulsive assassin. Carrie interrogates a Valtegan prisoner, who promptly commits suicide. Carrie, Kusac, Kaid and Vanna are taken to Shola, where Carrie meets Kusac's family...and his betrothed, Rala Vailkoi. Carrie becomes pregnant, but loses the fetus in a duel with Rala. Vanna is then kidnapped by Dzaka and taken to view a Valtegan skeleton found among Sholan ruins.    Carrie and Kusac, and the other Leska pairs, are being used as political tools by the Telepath Guild, the Brotherhood of Vartra, and the Sholan military. They have found temporary protection with Alien Relations, which mandates all mixed Leska pairs to be housed on the heavily secured Aldatan estate. However, they need to establish independence from the Guilds and Clans. To do this, they decide to visit the Fire Margins and become the En'shalla -- in the hands of the gods -- Clan, but several events, including the wounding of Carrie and Kusac during the duel, have precluded this effort.    The Fire Margins are not a physical place, but a situation encountered in a trance. No telepath has every returned from the Fire Margins, but Carrie and Kusac believe that telepaths who are able to fight will have a much better chance. However, they need a third person to form a triad and they choose Kaid.    This novel begins to explore the role of the Sholan gods in society. It includes several direct contacts between the characters and the god Vartra. What is Vartra and what do the Fire Margins have to do with him?    (...). Moreover, the control that Sholan females have over conception almost totally eliminates unwanted pregnancies. Indeed, the Sholan males are completely dependent upon the good wishes of thefemales if they want to have cubs; even rape doesn't work against a determined female. I can see where that would bother many males in our society, as evidenced by the deeply felt opposition to birth control.    Once again, this series dwells on the doubts and conflicts among the main characters. This novel focuses on Kaid more than the others, but Carrie, Kusac and other characters have problems of their own which they must work out on stage.    Recommended for all Norman fans and anyone who enjoys psychological motifs in a SF setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-01-22
1257672:US	49390985	R16JGF7BHQDCA3	0886776759	695546521	Fortune's Wheel (Sholan Alliance)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	The Sholan Side	Fortune's Wheel is the second novel in the Sholan Alliance series, following Turning Point.  In the previous volume, Kusac uses illusion to get Carrie and himself into the Valtegan base to use their transmitter to alert the Khalossa, the Sholan mothership.  After Carrie and Kusac enter the base, his Sholan shipmates and the Keissan resistance attack the Valtegan base as a distraction.  Once the message is sent, the attackers destroy as much of the base as possible, including the main antennas, to preclude the Valtegans from detecting the approach of the Khalossa.<br />In this novel, the Khalossa and other Sholan warships attack the Valtegan bases on Keiss and free the colony.  The Sholans then initiate first contact negotiations with the humans on Keiss and on Terra itself.<br />Carrie and Kusac have become a Leska Link couple, the first such pairing between different species.  A Leska Link forms a deep telepathic bond between telepaths, but the link between Carrie and Kusac is much deeper than normal, allowing them to be constantly aware of each other's thoughts and capable of forming a gestalt with amazing powers.  Moreover, both Carrie and Kusac can fight and kill, normally an impossibility for Sholan telepaths.<br />The Leska Link must be consummated by sexual intercourse and the bond must be reinforced by sexual intimacy about every five days so that Contact Deprivation does not cause them to fall into a coma and die.  Carry is unaware of the needs of a Leska Link couple, is intimidated by the strength of the lust aroused by the bond, and is shamed by the contempt of her fellow humans.  She tries to avoid contact with Kusac and he just waits for nature to take its course.  They both are close to death before their friends become aware of the problem and bring them together.<br />The news of the mixed species Leska bond causes a furor on the Khalossa.  When Kusac attacks a human taunting Carrie, the Captain informs Alien Relations, who discover that Kusac is theson of their head, Konis Aldatan, and heir to Clan Aldatan.<br />This novel dwells on the conflicts that occur between Carrie and Kusac despite the strong attraction of their link and the ability to perceive each others deepest thoughts.  Carrie has the most problems with their relationship, but Kusac is also prone to misunderstandings;  after all, they are alien to each other.<br />Recommended for Norman fans and anyone who enjoys stories with strong characterization and interpersonal development.	2003-01-22
1257751:US	49390985	R1VMH6EAHTXTR1	0886775752	366912905	Turning Point	Books	4	19	19	N	N	A Telepathic Bonding	Turning Point is the first novel in the Sholan Alliance series. It is the story of two telepaths: the human Carrie Hamilton and the Sholan Kusac Alda.<br />Carrie is a colonist on the planet Keiss, which has been conquered by the alien Valtegans. Carrie is tightly linked to her sister, Eloise, so much so that she takes away Eloise's pain. When the Valtegans torture Eloise to death, Carrie not only feels the pain, but displays the wounds inflicted on Eloise. When Eloise dies, the mind link is transferred to Kusac, a fifth class telepath in the Sholan fleet. Kusac is a castaway on Keiss, his ship having been shot down by the Valtegans. When Kusac was wounded by Valtegans at the crash site, his shipmates left him behind to follow at his best pace. In his dazed state, Carrie's mind link has drawn him to her house, where she tends his wounds and nurses him to health. Carrie, with a little help from his talent, does not recognize that he is an alien, rather believing him to be a native forest cat. Neither does she associate the peculiar thoughts appearing in her mind with the wounded creature.<br />Carrie is being forced into an unwanted marriage by her father. Rather that submit, she runs away with her forest cat. When she is attacked by Valtegans in the forest, she discovers that the cat is definitely not native nor is he very tame. Once she recognizes him as a thinking person, Carrie join forces with Kusac to rejoin his crew and to alert his mothership of the presence of the Valtegans on Keiss.<br />This novel is very much like Andre Norton's SF in scope, plot and characterization. An alienated human with psionic talents bonds with an alien with psionic talents against just about everybody else. The sexual content, however, is much more explicit than Norton was allowed to explore. While this book was not as polished as the sequels, I did find it to be mostly enjoyable. Check her out.<br />Some reviewers have said that this novel is the worst that they have ever read. They must not have read some of the dogs that I have tried to read; this work may be somewhat rough, but it doesn't have glaring errors of fact, terrible syntax, and deadly dull dialogue. I enjoyed it despite its minor flaws and I have also enjoyed the sequels; what more could I ask for than good entertainment?<br />Recommended for Norton fans and anyone who enjoys a strong couple of telepaths fighting for their own place in the universe.	2003-01-22
1258584:US	49390985	R1BVYFXFLIT7ZX	0812538757	993033048	The Probability Broach	Books	5	51	55	N	N	The Intercontinua Chase and Shootout	Probability Broach is Smith's first novel.  It is the story of a Denver Police Lieutenant Edward William Bear, called Win, who somehow find himself in a different continuum.  This novel is followed by a direct sequel, The American Zone, which has some of the flavor but less of the excitement of this novel.    Win is on lunch break when he is called to the scene of a homicide.  The victim, Vaughn L. Meiss, has been shot multiple times by a machine pistol, yet got off four shots with his own weapon, apparently to good effect.  Meiss is a professor of Physics at Colorado State University and is also a card-carrying Propertarian.  Since Meiss was killed in the vicinity of the Propertarian state headquarters, Win checks with the staff there and learns that Meiss was expected for an executive committee meeting.  After interviewing the State Director, Jenny Noble, and other directors at the meeting, he finds that Meiss had been very excited by something and that the weapon that Meiss was carrying had been provided by the government to protect state secrets.    Win also interviews Dr. Otis Bealle, chairman of the CSU Physics department, and gets to see Meiss' office and laboratory.  While he is in the lab, several men try to kill him with a machine pistol and other weapons.  He accidentally hits the power switch on the gadget in the lab and then dives through an emergency exit, which happens to be an intercontinual portal.  Shot, dazed and not very coherent, he stumbles out of the hole on the other side and is then blown through the air by an explosion.  Looking for help, he finds a telecom booth containing a screen and a keyboard, where he enters \\"O\\" for operator, but the animated drawing that appears cannot find a listing for the Denver Police anywhere in the known solar system.  He tries for Bealls' number, but finds no \\"Otis\\" listed.  However, he sees an adjacent listing for Edward W. Bear, Consulting Detective.    The phone is busy, but the location is nearby, so he decides to walk  -- make that stagger -- to the address.  On the way, he refreshes himself, and his clothes, at a corner pit stop, later is pursued and shot by unknown persons in a long black hovercraft, and then lands face down in front of the other Bear's garage door.  When he awakens, he is being treated by a medico with a beautiful voice and a mean electronarcosis gun.  When he wakes up again, he discovers that the voice belongs to a gorgeous blonde named Clarissa Olson.  He also meets the other Bear, called Ed, as well as Lucille Gallegos Kropotkin, a 136 year old war veteran, judge, and congressperson.  Lucy is Ed's next door neighbor and totes two 50 caliber Gabbet Fairfax pistols when she is going on a raid;  otherwise, she only carries one during normal everyday activities.    Win is now a resident of the North American Confederation governed under Propertarian principles as expounded by Albert Gallatin.  The novel is full of political philosophy in between shootouts and chase scenes.  The politics is interesting and even intriguing, but well integrated into the action.    This is a different kind of novel than most, much like Starship Troopers in its union of thought and action.  It makes a good case for universal arming of the population and an even better case against governments of every kind.  After 9/11, the idea of arming airline passengers doesn't seem so silly, does it?    Recommended for anyone who has seriously considered the nature of governments and individual freedom, but wants his polemic with some excitement.	2003-01-21
1261454:US	49390985	RVU59BKB1ANCX	0743435451	195382347	War of Honor (Honor Harrington #10)	Books	5	1	4	N	N	An Interesting Period	War of Honor (2002) is the tenth novel in the Honor Harrington series.  In the prior volume, the People's Republic of Haven has been defeated, the Committee of Public Safety has fallen, and the new Republic of Haven is talking peace.  The Manticoran government has passed to a unholy coalition of Conservatives, Liberals and Progressives, with strong Independent support, that are determined to mine the Peace dividend.  Honor is teaching at the academy, but most of the other fighting Admirals are on the beach at half pay.    The Imperial Andermani Navy has mounted piracy suppression patrols in the Silesia Confederacy while the Star Kingdom was busy elsewhere, but now the IAN has increased its presence and displays strong new capabilities;  evidently they have territorial ambitions in Silesia.  The Republic has just about cleaned out all the Peep holdouts and have also covertly increased their Naval capabilities, but they still have domestic problems;  they are determined to establish a lasting peace, but are frustrated by the arrogance, indifference and obstructive tactics of the High Ridge government.  Moreover, Grayson, Erewhon and the other Manticoran allies are also becoming frustrated by the High Ridge government.    Earl High Ridge and his cronies are mostly happy about their place at the public trough, but are looking for ways to counter the expiration of the emergency income tax in the near future.  They make plans to rake off even more of the Naval budget.  Realizing that Honor and Earl White Haven will be their most effective political opponents, and having little love for either one, the High Ridge gang manufacture a scandal about the pair's \\"love affair\\".  Since Honor and White Haven are really in love, even though their relationship has been chaste, they are deeply hurt by the public opprobrium, especially for the pain the scandal will cause to White Haven's wife, Emily.  Moreover, it causes them to acknowledge to themselves, and each other, the deepness of their love.      As the Andermani provocations in Silesia become more overt, High Ridge decides to send Honor to the Sidemore to command RNS forces in the Confederacy area.  They hope that the mission will backfire on her and reduce her popularity.  Honor accepts the necessity of the mission, but is also grateful for the chance to distance herself from White Haven.    Meanwhile, Arnold Giancola, the Republic's Secretary of State, is fanning the embers of war among the Havenites, building his opposition to the President of the Republic, Eloise Pritchart.  The truce with the Star Kingdom still holds, but patience is thinning.    Many have compared Weber with C.S. Forester and, as he freely admits, rightly so.  However, few have considered the reasons both authors, and others such as Patrick O'Brian, have chosen the French Revolution and the Napoleonic Wars as the background to their stories.  As many historians have noted, that period was a major watershed in European, and World, political realities.  Moreover, it is one of the best documented naval wars in history.  It was an interesting time in many ways;  the life of a brilliant, capable and lucky young naval officer of that time, Horatio Nelson, has fascinated naval historians and ordinary persons for centuries.  What a great story!    Nevertheless, the Honor Harrington series is only loosely based on the life of Horatio Nelson.  The international scene of the late 18th and early 19th centuries was much more complex than the background of this series;  as a minor example, consider the lack of the newly independent colonies, such as the United States, and the friction that lead to the War of 1812.  While the Polish -- i.e., Silesian -- issue is portrayed in this novel, the other wars, revolutions, coups, etc., occurring in Europe, Latin America and elsewhere are mostly absent.  Moreover, the technology development in this series was never so great in the real world.    In this novel, the situation in the Star Kingdom reflects real history after mid 1795.  The British government had mostly dismantled its fleet, with many ships either mothballed or sold off, many of the naval officers retired or on half pay, and most of the sailors let go to the merchant marine or back to farming.  In France, the period following the overthrow of Robespierre lead to the Ninth Thermidor, the restoral of traditional borders, and the creation of a constitution.    This volume corresponds to the Directory period, which was overthrown by Napoleon in 1799.  In this novel, Weber does not follow these events in any strict fashion, but rather simplifies much of the turmoil and conflict.  Still, the next book could portray the rise of a Napoleon.  I hate waiting!!!    Recommended to Honor Harrington fans, military SF readers, and anyone who enjoys both SF and historical fiction.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-01-19
1262508:US	49390985	R1T8XXX8SB9EHE	0812517059	394919185	Starpilot's Grave (Mageworlds, Book 2)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Undercover in the Mageworlds	Starpilot's Grave (1993) is the second novel written in the original Mageworlds trilogy.  At this time, however, it is the fifth of the series in internal chronological sequence, following [[ASIN:0812517040 The Price of the Stars]].  In the previous book, Beka Rosselin-Metada had joined with the Professor, her brother Ari, Nyls Jessan, and Llannat Hyfid to capture Nivome the Rolny, the man who masterminded the assassination of her mother.   <br /> <br />In this novel, Jos Metada realizes that there are others involved in the assassination plot and asks Beka to take the Warhammer into Mageworlds space to continue the investigation.  Moreover, Jos gives Jessan permission to accompany her and he promotes and reassigns his aide, Jervas Gil, as Commodore of the fleet. <br /> <br />Beka and Nyls travel through the Net to Mage space looking for Ebenra D'Caer.  On Raamet, they take on a passenger who later tries to kill them.  Yet they extract enough information from his brain to divert to Ninglin to meet the assassin's contact. <br /> <br />Owen Rosselin-Metada manages to elude the Magelords on Pleyver and returns to Galcen with important information.  Errec Ransome, his boss, then assigns him to watch the Mages on Nammerin.  There he meets Klea Santreny and starts training her as an Adept. <br /> <br />When Ari and Llannat returns to Nammerin, Owen warns them that he is undercover and not to be noticed if seen.  Ari is soon promoted and reassigned to the Fezrisond in the Infabe sector, but Llannat remains behind.   <br /> <br />Jos and his new aide, Commander Quetaya, travel incognito to Infabe for an unannounced inspection.  After they depart, however, security guards discovered a body stuffed in a trash container within RSF headquarters. <br /> <br />While this is the second volume in a trilogy, the plot does not let up on the suspense and action.  The plot is much more complicated than the incidents related in this review.  The final volume has a lot of story elementsto tie together. <br /> <br />Recommended for Mageworlds fans and anyone who enjoys tales of covert action and special operations on an interstellar scale. <br /> <br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2003-01-18
1267571:US	49390985	R1MCLZ3J66F4M2	0061051187	124132286	Beyond the Stars: Quest for Tomorrow #4	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Starting Anew	Beyond the Stars (2000) is the fourth SF novel in the Quest for Tomorrow series.  In the previous volume, Jim Endicott has used the power of the Omega Point to change the past.  In this branch of the multiverse, his mother does not alter his DNA and, while still pursued by Delta and attacked by Commander Steele, his misaimed shot does not kill Carl as in the other timeline.    Jim, Carl and Tabitha all survive the attack, but Carl is badly wounded and Tabitha is in shock.  They flee from the cabin to Hannaport on the other side of the mountain.  There Jim is put aboard a freighter headed for the Outward Bound, a colony ship.  Carl and Tabitha go elsewhere to lure away Delta's forces.  On the Outward Bound, Jim becomes friends with the leader of the Stone Cowboys gang and more than friends with Samantha, a Stone Cowgirl.    Jim is alone, in a strange place and surrounded by strangers, with different ways and customs.  For the first time, he must fend for himself, make his own path in the world.  He has help from the Stone Cowboys, yet he must learn to meet their expectations or they will turn on him.  At the same time, he wants to be true to the behavior and beliefs instilled by Carl and Tabitha.    This novel presents a new story of another Jim Endicott.  It explores other facets of the ConFed society and other avenues for a young adult.  Recommended for Shatner fans and anyone who enjoys young adult SF stories.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-01-14
1273398:US	49390985	R2RHYWB3H9GKAM	0812517040	664331093	The Price of the Stars: Book One of Mageworlds	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Swashbuckling Domina	The Price of the Stars (1992) is the first novel written in the original Mageworlds trilogy.  At this time, however, it is the fourth of the series in internal chronological sequence, following [[ASIN:0812534956 The Gathering Flame]].  In the previous book, Perada Rosselin and Jos Metada headed the resistance movement in the First Mage War and the subsequent establishment of the Republic.  Although the Republic won the war, the cost was extremely high;  in addition to the military losses, Entibor was rendered uninhabitable by tectonic upheavals, Sapne lost most of its population to plague, and Ilarna was decimated and its Adepts wiped out by invading forces.  The Mageworlds also lost heavily, with the Republic destroying its naval forces, exterminating its Mages and dismantling its interstellar mercantile capabilities.  Moreover, Arekhon Khreseio sus-Khalgath sus-Peledaen, in his role as Ser Hafrey, was discharged as Armsmaster of the Rosselin family, with Tillijen appointed as his replacement.    Three decades later, Perada is a member of the Grand Council of the Republic and her consort, Jos Metada, is Commanding General of the Republic's Space Force.  Ari Rosselin-Metada is a Lieutenant in the RSF Medical Corps at Namport on Nammerin, Owen Rosselin-Metada is an apprentice in the Adept Guild, and Beka Rosselin-Metada is copilot on the armed freighter Claw Hard.      With the help of her brother Owen, Beka had ran away from home to become a commercial star pilot.  She is determined that she will never be the Domina of Lost Entibor, but an assassination plot against her mother contravenes her ambitions.  At Waycross on Innish-Kyl, she accepts ownership of the Warhammer from her father in order to track down the instigator of the plot.  At Embrig Spaceport on Mandeyn, she is saved from an assassination attempt by the Professor, the current persona of Arekhon, who is still protecting the Rosselin family despite his formal dismissal as Armsmaster.    Ari and his friendNyls Jessan, a fellow medic from Khesat, bring in a farmer who has Rogan's disease, normally a dry world ailment and rather unexpected on the very wet Nammerin.  As usual, supply is snafued and cannot provide the required medication, tholovine, in a reasonable time, so Ari and Llannat Hyfid, an Adept and medic, set out to get some through the local Quincunx -- i.e., criminal syndicate -- representative.  Unfortunately, this simple task eventually results in a fire, an armed chase, and a deadly duel with a Mage.    Owen has been working for Errec Ransome as a special operative, investigating Mage operations within the Republic, for the last 10 years.  His tasks lead him to Pleyver Flatlands, where he crosses paths with Beka and the Professor.  They part company and then Beka and the Professor meet Nyls Jessan while being followed and shot at by an estimated 200 armed thugs.  The shootouts continue from there on.    This novel initiated the Mageworlds series.  It started as a short story that insisted on becoming longer.  Now it incorporates 7 novels and still has room for more.      Recommended for anyone who enjoys interstellar action and intrigue on a large scale.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-01-10
1274317:US	49390985	R13TDHFNZOP6MG	0812534956	162343448	The Gathering Flame	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The First Mage War	The Gathering Flame (1995) is the fourth novel written in the Mageworlds series.  At this time, however, it is the third in internal chronological sequence, following [[ASIN:0312864116 A Working of Stars]] and preceding [[ASIN:0812517040 The Price of the Stars]].  Five hundred years before, a Great Working was performed to bridge the eiran across The Gap Between.  The only surviving Mage from that Circle, Arekhon Khreseio sus-Khalgath sus-Peledaen, had returned to his lover Elaeli Inadi syn-Peledaen, known as the Maestra Elela Rosselin, on Entibor and now serves her descendants as Ser Hafrey, the Armsmaster.    The Mages have begun raiding across the Gap Between and threaten Entibor.  Perada Rosselin has just inherited the title of Domina of Entibor and, in the company of Ser Hafrey and Nivome do'Evaan of Rolny, is traveling from Galcen to Entibor to receive her crown.  On the way, she takes a side-journey to Waycross on Innish-Kyl in order to converse with Jos Metadi, the leader of a fleet of privateers attacking Mage conveys.  Perada wants Jos to command her fleet against the Mages and is offering to take him as her consort if he will become her General of Armies.  Metada turns her down and tries to leave, but finds the door locked from the outside.  Escaping the building by the back way, Jos and Perada are fired upon by unknown assailants and flee to Metada's ship, the Warhammer.  Errec Ransome, an Adept who survived the Mage attack on Ilarna, is the navigator on the Warhammer, Nannla and Tillijen are the gunners, and Ferrdacor the Selvaur is the engineer.    This novel tells the backstory of the First Mage War and the formation of the Republic.  It shows why Errec Ransome is called the Breaker of Circles, how Entibor was Lost, and what caused the Rolny enmity toward the Rosselin-Metadi clan.  It also gives some background on the other planets involved in the original trilogy.    This novel may be a prequel, but it throughly enjoyable in itself.  Recommended forall Mageworlds fans and anyone who enjoys interstellar politics and intrigue.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-01-09
1282550:US	49390985	R30IAZR2BO3DPC	0671721119	742816816	Crusade (Starfire)	Books	4	18	18	N	N	An Interstellar Jihad	Crusade (1992) is the second novel written by Weber & White in the Starfire series.  However, it is the earliest in internal chronological sequence and should be read first.  It begins fifty years after the Third Interstellar War, in which the Terrans and Orions formed the Alliance and exterminated the Rigellians.    An Orion squadron in the Lorelei system is puzzled when an unknown fleet is discovered coming out of Charon's Ferry, the sixth warp point, since no ship had ever returned from there.  Also, the bogies are using a very old Terran Federation Navy code in their transmissions.  The squadron commander speculates that these ships could be remnants of TFN forces that had fled the Orions 90 years before during the Second Interstellar War.  When the bogies identify themselves as TFN and refuse to believe that the Orions are allies, the TFN onboard liaison contacts them and explains the Treaty of Valkha.  The bogies agree to parlay and, as the main party stands down, the vanguard comes to the Orions.  Shortly thereafter, however, the bogies attack with missiles at minimum range and then with X-ray lasers.  The Orions release their Omega drones and fight back, but three ships are soon lost.  The Orion flagship is then boarded, but self-destructs before being captured.    After studying the available information, the Khanate of Orion decides that the invaders are Terrans.  The Strategy Board wants to attack the Federation, but the Khan agrees with the squadron commander's idea of lost TFN forces escaping through Charon's Ferry.  He tells the Federation Ambassador that Orion will not attack the Federation or the unknowns, but that the Federation must exact suitable vengeance upon their errant fellows.  The Federation agrees and the politicians send a Peace Fleet to Lorelei upon invitation by the unknowns.  Under secret orders, the TFN is subordinated to the diplomatic corps with disastrous results as the bogies repeat their underhanded tactics.    This story has many similarities to historical conflicts.  The genocidial destruction of the Rigellian Protectorate in the Third Interstellar War parallels the actions of Rome in the Third Punic War. The actions of the Thebans reflect the fanatical behavior of both sides in the long conflict between Christianity and Islam, particularly in the Eastern Roman Empire and in Spain.    This novel is recommended for all Weber & White fans and anyone who likes spatial warfare with a background of political intrigue.	2003-01-03
1283521:US	49390985	R1DIVSU3ZIQK35	0671877798	216203102	In Death Ground (Starfire)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Hold at All Cost	In Death Ground (1997) is the third novel by Weber & White in the Starfire series.  However, it is the second in internal chronological sequence following Crusade and is the first in a duology with The Shiva Option. Insurrection is actually last in the series by internal chronology.    This story takes place 60-odd years after the Theban War.  The enemy ambushes Survey Flotilla 27, destroying or severely damaging the survey cruisers and their escorts.  The enemy then pursues the survivors through warp point after warp point.  The Terran Federation Navy diverts two nearby task forces to reinforce the survivors of SF27 and sends all available freighters and transports to evacuate the colony planets. TF58, under Admiral Anthony Villiers, is the first task force to reach the SF27 survivors in the Golan system.  He holds the warp point for a while, bleeding the enemy and evacuating part of the population, until forced to withdraw to Erebor.  TF58 has a month to prepare, receive reinforcements, and to start evacuations, but the enemy then attacks through the warp point with devastating tactics, mass, and a new weapon.  Villiers is forced to commit his battleline to slow the advance, losing his battleships, and leaving Admiral Jackson Teller in command of the withdrawal into the K-45 system.    This novel describes the desperate battles to stop the enemy advance. Since the warp points are bottle necks, the fighting is more separated than surface naval combat.  Each warp point is defended and the TFN makes the Bugs pay dearly despite overwhelming odds against them, but more Bugs ships keep coming through.  TFN reinforcements are still arriving, but will they be enough to stop the Bugs?    This novel describes a campaign similar in many ways to the Pacific theater of World War II.  The attack on Pearl Harbor destroyed or severely damaged every US battleship in the Pacific, forcing the US navy to rely on aircraft carriers and escort ships.  Therefore, the strategy was to harass the enemy with destroyers, PT boats, and submarines, while the carrier task forces struck at enemy concentrations and tried to destroy the Japanese carriers.  At the Coral Sea, aerial attacks by US carrier planes severely damaged three Japanese carriers and destroyed several escorts.  Then, at Midway, the US carriers destroyed four of the remaining Japanese carriers.  These two battles effectively stopped the Japanese advance.    This novel is recommended to all Weber & White fans and anyone who enjoys stories of spatial battles with a touch of political intrigue.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-01-03
1283712:US	49390985	R26EDZ9FR40B3I	0671318268	93603767	March to the Sea	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Through the Vlkerwanderung	March To the Sea (2001) is the second military SF novel in the Empire of Man series, following [[ASIN:0743435389 March Upcountry]].<br /><br />Bravo Company, Bronze Battalion, of the Empress' Own Regiment, have been stranded on Marduk with His Highness, Prince Roger.  Guarding Roger has always been an interesting experience, but protecting him from tens of thousands of Kranolta barbarians, ambitious Radj Hoomas of Marshad, and other Mardukan delights has brought bodyguarding to a new high (or depth).  Now the marines, with their auxiliaries, are concentrating on getting to the seacoast.  They are making good time and enjoying peaceful relations with the natives, for a change -- except for a few short-lived bandits -- but then the weather changes.<br /><br />The marines love the cold weather -- well, Sergeant Julian does -- but the natives, with the exception of Cord, cannot handle the dryness that come with the cold, so the marines are forced to buy the flar-ta and let the drovers return to their homes.  The drovers are willing to sell just as long as Poertena isn't negotiating for the marines.  Poertena learns, however, that while he may be better than the Prince at negotiating with the natives, the Prince is better at the game of spades.<br /><br />On the other side of the mountains, they run into a herd of flar-ke.  Roger is proven right about their aggressiveness;  the marines win the fight, but with high casualties.  By the way, flar-ke taste a lot like chicken.<br /><br />Shortly thereafter, the surviving marines reach Ran Tai, a city surrounding a lake within a bowl-shaped valley in the mountains.  Ran Tai is a rich town, trading in the spice from nearpeppers raised in the valley and also in gold, silver and iron as well as some alluvial gemstones.  However, it has a problem with barbarian hordes migrating from the north.<br /><br />Not only a problem in themselves, the hordes have been driving local tribes off their ranges.  After bloodlessly defeating one such tribe, the marines hire them as caravan guards in their trek to Diastra.  Unfortunately, Diastra is under siege by the barbarians and the entire area all the way to the sea has been overrun.  Apparently the marines will have to fight the rest of their way to the sea.<br /><br />Look for the mirrored armor on the back cover.  I don't understand how artists get away with such license and I also don't understand how readers can expect a romantic affair in the middle of a desperate sorty into enemy territory;  the readers should try finding time and energy for a little romance between long marches, night sentry duty, and random attacks.<br /><br />This series is very much like Rider Haggard's tales of forays into unknown lands.  The next installment in this sequence is [[ASIN:0743488180 March to the Stars]].<br /><br />Recommended for Ringo and Weber fans and anyone else who likes combat Sf and exotic cultures.<br /><br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2003-01-02
1285223:US	49390985	RE0CU7D5EDX11	0312864116	414530843	A Working of Stars (Mageworlds)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	The End of the Beginning	A Working of Stars (2002) is the seventh novel written in the Mageworlds series.  At this time, however, it is the second in internal chronological sequence, following [[ASIN:0812571924 The Stars Asunder]].  In the previous book, the Damaizen Circle has begun the Great Working to bridge the eiran across The Gap Between.  The Circle has sent Garrod through the Void to Entibor and other places Beyond the Edge, but he returns both old and mad.  The Circle has guided a ship to the far side, left Elaeli Inadi at Entibor in a position prepared for her by Garrod, captured a foreign pilot, Karil, and brought back a foreign ship, the Diamond.  They find that Demaizen Hall has been attacked while they were away and only Kiefen Diasul survived.  Returning to Demaizen Hall, they are betrayed by Kiefen, but rescued by Iulan Vai, who provides a ship in which Arekhon, Narin, Ty and Karil flee Beyond the Edge.    Ten years later, the Great Working is still evolving and effecting all the Demaizen Circle survivors.  Arekhon is having dreams of the Great Working and of Vai and another woman, Maraganha, who later Void walks to Entibor.  She helps Arekhon to find Narin, Ty, and Karil and to continue the working.    Kiefen is partially mad from his inability to separate himself from the working.  He starts his own circle at the Hanilat Institute to render the connection, but realizes that he can only be free if all the other mages from the Demaizen Circle are dead.  Vai has remained on Eraasi and is still working in the shadows.  Arekhon's older brother, Natelth, is building ships with technology taken from the Diamond and planning the absorption of the other fleet-families.  Arekhon's sister, Isayana, is developing new types of aiketen.  A crisis is building in the Mageworlds.    With authors named Doyle and MacDonald, I wonder how much the concept of eiran comes from the celtic magic weavers of Eiru.  The philosophical conflict between Adepts and Mages seems to reflect the differencesbetween Norn worship and Brigit worship;  the Adepts seem to accept the Norse approach of following their wyrd whereas the Mages weave their own life and luck.    I have to agree with another reviewer that the Mageworlds series needs a Dramatis Personae.  Recommended for all Mageworlds fans and anyone who enjoys interstellar adventures of great scope and complexity with an admixture of magic.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-01-02
1286205:US	49390985	R59HIS0NB2CHQ	0312864108	434873155	The Stars Asunder	Books	4	8	8	N	N	What Came Before	The Stars Asunder (1999) is the sixth novel written in the Mageworlds series.  At this time, however, it is the first in internal chronological sequence.  This series has evoked a mysterious past from the very first volume.  While Doyle and MacDonald have filled in some of the backstory in [[ASIN:0812534956 The Gathering Flame]], now we are told the story of Arekhon Khreseio sus-Khalgath sus-Peledaen, the Professor, at a time 500 years before [[ASIN:0812517040 The Price of the Stars]].    The eiran seem to be silvery threads to those with the ability to see them.  They are the forces of life and luck and can be manipulated by Mages.  Long ago, individual efforts of many short-sighted individuals have caused a Great Sundering of the eiran, leaving The Gap Between separating the survivors and their worlds.  In the Mageworlds, circles still manipulate the eiran, but, in the rest of the human worlds, the Adepts consider the eiran as a force of nature and manipulation of the threads is believed to be an abomination.    Garrod syn-Aigal is a Void Walker, able to cross even interstellar distances through the Void, and Yuvaen syn-Deriot is his Second.  They are determined to perform a Great Working to bridge The Gap Between and make whole the broken eiran threads within the galaxy.  They begin by recruiting Mages for a new circle based at Demaizen Old Hall and the eiran brings them from all walks of life.    Among the new Mages are Iulan Vai, Narin Iyal, Ty, and Arekhon.  Iulan Vai is Agent-Principal of the sus-Radal family, working in the shadows to gather information.  Narin is the First of the Amisket Circle, protecting the fishing town and its fleet.  Ty is a young nobody's-child from the Port Street Foundling Home, who has to find a means of livelihood.  Arekhon, the younger brother of Natelth, the head of the sus-Peledaen family's senior line, is leavimg his family business to become a mage.  Each is facing an uncertain future before the eiran brings them together.The Demaizen Circle is the only remaining independent Mage circle that is performing Great Workings.  All the others are bound to the noble houses or doing only minor workings.  The Demaizen Circle is beholden only to Garrod, who is the last of his family, but their efforts may provoke even the Gods themselves against them.    The Mageworlds stories belong to that gray area between science fiction and fantasy, mixing Technology and Talents, much like the interstellar adventures of Andre Norton and Lisanne Norman.  Recommended for all Mageworlds fans and anyone who enjoys stories of great magic, political intrigue, and exotic cultures.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2003-01-01
1289362:US	49390985	RT45S9PV5DVMU	0441010067	754948148	Orphans of Earth	Books	5	15	15	N	N	The Plot Thickens	Orphans of Earth is the second novel in this new series.  In the previous novel, human civilization in the Solar System has been wiped out by the Starfish aliens and some human colonies were also destroyed.  The only surviving full human, Caryl Hatzis, has joined Peter Alander's engram in warning the remaining human colonies in the path of the Spinners.      In this novel, they acquire more FTL ships and start organizing the survivors.  Caryl is secretly enhancing her engrams with intent to form another personality gestalt.  Alander's only other known engram is destroyed.  Alander joins the Hatzis engram from Thor in surveying systems in the Spinners path and discover a secret engram colony based on the personality of a project administrator, Frank Axford, who stole a colony ship and has since replicated his engram many times.  Since the original was a army general officer and CIA administrator, Axford has a different attitude toward both sets of aliens and has uncovered a few techniques unknown to the other human colonies.  Axford has also discovered that the anomalous ship settings are caused by a third set of aliens, the Yuhn/goel, and wants to ally with them against the Starfish.    The Starfish have changed tactics somewhat, still attacking systems where FTL communicators are used, but now are also following up with random seaches of nearby systems.  They are gradually sterilizing the whole volume of space in the Spinners path.  All the human colonies are threatened.  Will the Yuan become allies and help strike back against the Starfish?    This novel continues to be as exciting and immediate as the first.  Enjoy, but stay tuned for the sequel.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-12-29
1290425:US	49390985	REUNGN3J441HD	0061051195	990778345	Shadow Planet (Quest for tomorrow)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Kolumban Drug Cartel	Shadow Planet is the fifth in the Quest for Tomorrow series.  These novels are fairly light science fiction.  While intended for young adults, they also can be enjoyable reading for adults.<br />In the previous novel, Jim Endicott has discovered that aliens are supplying a deadly drug to the crew and passengers of the colony ship Outward Bound.  He convinces the Stone Cowboys youth gang, who have been distributing the drug, to help him assault the alien ship, killing all but one of the alien crew.  He then becomes Captain, renames the ship Endeavor, and sets a course toward Kolumba, the alien's home planet.<br />This novel begins with another set of aliens, the Communers, completely destroying the Outward Bound.  The Communers are using the Kolumbans as stooges to attack the Terran Confederation.  While the Kolumbans were originally noble savages, so to speak, the Communers have subverted them to consumerism by giving out picture boxes showing various sentients, including humans, using flashy cars and other goods.  Sound familiar?<br />This series has an old fashion, pulp-era feel.  While Shatner introduces contemporary scientific and technological concepts, they are usually only nonessential props rather than central elements of the plot.  He also overuses coincidence to resolve problems, so the plot seems jerky at times.  Moreover, only Jim Endicott shows any character growth;  everyone else is fully defined when they are introduced.  Overall, it would make a good script for a TV movie, but is not serious literature.<br />Recommended for young adults and more mature readers who don't mind a little light reading while awaiting the next Robert Jordan novel.	2002-12-28
1290577:US	49390985	R3BTOKZG36ADAL	0441008925	517711274	Echoes of Earth	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Beware of Aliens Bearing Gifts	Echoes of Earth is the first novel in a new series.  It is the story of the destruction of civilization in the Solar System and the discovery of aliens with greatly superior technology, combining elements of Allen's Ring of Charon, Vinge's Marooned in Real Time, Williamson's Manseed and Pohl's Heechee series.<br />In 2050, Earth begins to send out 1000 exploration ships containing engrams, cybernetic personality simulations, rather than actual humans.  All the engram crews are based on only 60 personalities.  One of these engrams, based on Peter Stanmore Alander, is particularly unstable, but all break down within a few decades.<br />The engram ship Frank Tipler has the mission to Upsilon Aquarius.  In 2160, the ship reaches its target and the engram crew begins their mission to study the solar system.  They had lost communications with Earth shortly after they left, but are confident that Earth will contact them later.  Alien ships suddenly enter the UA system and build 10 orbital towers -- beanstalks -- and an interconnecting ring in only a few hours as the engrams watch.  Peter Alander, who has been permanently assigned an android body to slow down his personality deterioration, enters an alien device at the bottom of one tower and is carried up to orbit.  There he encounters the Gifts, 11 artificial intelligences who control the advanced technology provided by the aliens as gifts to the less advanced humans.  Among these gifts are devices to communicate and travel faster than light.<br />The Gifts are programmed to obey only one person -- Peter Alander -- among the crew;  the aliens, who the engrams call Spinners, apparently want the Gift recipients to absorb the new technology slowly to reduce cultural shock.  However, the other engrams can operate the alien technology after learning the control interface protocols.  Since the other engrams are running on the computers within the Frank Tipler and controlling drones remotely, Peter is the only engram that can operate the FTL ship at this time.  After secret programming in one of the engrams almost destroys the mission, Peter takes the FTL ship back to Earth to ensure that information on the Spinner technology is not lost.<br />The Solar System has changed drastically since the Frank Tipler left.  The artificial intelligences have reached self-awareness and followed their own agenda, destroying the Earth and Venus to build the beginning of a Dyson sphere around the sun.  The eruption of AI has almost wiped out the biological intelligences and only about 3 million are left.  The surviving humans have incorporated cybernetic technology to form personality gestalts with multiple points of view.  All these intelligences are joined to some extent into the Vincula, a sort of group mind, but some resist the conservatism of that body.  One of the human gestalts is based on Caryl Hatzis, one of the engram contributors.  When Alander arrives in the Solar System, he tries to contact the proper authorities, but finds that only Hatzis has survived.  The Vincula tries to take the FTL ship away from him to suppress the technology, but he escapes back to UA with the original Hatzis.<br />This story contains little new in plot or concepts, but the level of detail makes it more immediate.  It grabs your attention like a good widescreen movie.  Recommended for Williams and Dix fans and anyone who enjoys the interstellar adventures of Roger MacBride Allen, Vernor Vinge, Jack Williamson and Frederik Pohl.	2002-12-28
1290679:US	49390985	R3GMV3ELOV1YGN	0451458885	324001107	The Disappeared: A Retrieval Artist Novel	Books	4	36	37	N	N	Hunted By Aliens	The Disappeared is the first novel in the Retrieval Artist series.  It is the story of people who have been helped to disappear in order to escape alien justice.  As humans go to the stars, they find alien sentients with their own body of law.  The humans agree to abide by local laws, but later find that these laws are sometimes illogical, inhumane, and bloody.  Thus, disappearance services are created to provide a new identity, a new job, and a new home for humans who are hunted by the aliens.<br />Miles Flint is a newly promoted detective in the Moon Police.  One morning, he and his partner, Noelle DeRicci, are sent to the Port to deal with a multiple killing in a space yacht.  While there, they are asked to check a ship picked up by the Border Patrol with aliens and two kidnapped children onboard.  Later, a very terrified woman lands an unmarked ship at the Port.  Flint discovers that all three cases have a common element:  they all involve the Disappeared.<br />This novel is a good read, with believable characters.  Flint is getting more antsy as things progress and DeRicci is maybe even more disturbed by the events.  Everybody else hates the situation, but sees no way to change it;  they figure its a dirty job, but someone has to do it.<br />Recommended for anyone who likes stories with decent people trying to deal fairly with an inherently unfair situation.	2002-12-28
1291096:US	49390985	R20LUBVE1X2RFY	0385190654	2252313	The School of Darkness	Books	4	19	20	N	Y	A Supernatural Thriller	The School of Darkness (1985) is the only novel-length John Thunstone story as best I can tell.  However, a number of shorter works featuring Thunstone have been collected in Third Cry to Legba and Other Invocations.<br /><br />In this novel, John Thunstone is invited to participate in a seminar on folklore at Buford State College.  He learns that the college had been founded by a rich man, Samuel Whitney, in gratitude for the healing prayers of a local women's group.  However, other accounts state that Whitney had been cursed by his enemies and healed by a coven of witches.  Moreover, two or more covens are supposedly still active in Buford.  Grizel Fian, a fellow particiant in the seminar, is mentioned as the head of one coven.<br /><br />Other participants include a Cherokee medicine man, a Catholic priest and a Japanese scholar.  Lee Pitt, a professor of English at Buford State, is host of the seminar.  Sharon Hill, the Countess Monteseco, also appears at the seminar;  Sharon and Thunstone have a long standing friendship and have faced danger together.  Although John loves her, he does not want her to be placed at risk and tries to discourage their relationship.<br /><br />Soon after his arrival, Thunstone receives a threatening phone call.  At dinner that night, Grizel asks about Rowley Thorne, an old enemy of Thunstone, who had literally disappeared into thin air during their last encounter.  Afterward, Thunstone sees Grizel signal a man who reminds him of Thorne.<br /><br />This novel shows its age in the characters and plot, particularly in the relationship between John and Sharon.  However, it is an superior example of pulp fantasy and a fairly enjoyable story.  Recommended for all Wellman fans and anyone who enjoys old fashioned supernatural thrillers.<br /><br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2002-12-28
1291292:US	49390985	R36BXJHTVSMZ	0312873387	729634724	A Crown Disowned	Books	4	5	6	N	N	The Foulness Strikes	A Crown Disowned (2002) is the third novel in the Cycle of Oak, Yew, Ash, and Rowan and the last in the trilogy.  The previous volume ended with King Peres on the throne, Ashen married to Gaurin, Rohan knighted, Anamara mad and lost in the Bog, and the dowager Ysa learning that the long awaited invasion from the north has begun.    This novel begins with a meeting between Rohan and the Bog headman Tusser in the remains of the city of Galinth.  While debating the fine points of alliance, they are interrupted by a group of men, hired by the dowager Ysa, who are trying to burn up the Bog.  After fighting off the Outlanders, they discover Anamara in the ruins and take her to Zazar for healing.    Despite the severity of the situation, the dowager clings to her plots and magic.  Throughout most of the book, she tries to control everybody.  One of the funniest places in the book is when the dowager Ysa is told that Rannore has married Lathrom, the former Sergeant.  Of course, Ysa is scandalized that Rannore has married well below her station and is frustrated to learn that her son, King Peres, has knighted Lathrom and has granted him lands and properties.    Meanwhile, Ashen studies the magic tome found by Esander, Zazar prepares for a summons, and the Foul One uses Flavielle to set up a trap.  In the north, the armies of the Rendelians, Nordorn, Sea-Rovers and Bog-folk fight Ice Dragons, Frydans and renegade humans.  The Unnatural cold is as deadly as the enemy.      The ultimate confrontation is not obvious, but is satisfying, and the aftermath is even more so.  Recommended for all fans of Andre Norton and Sasha Miller as well as anyone who likes adventure fantasy with a touch of romance.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-12-28
1291931:US	49390985	R2DLV1PXY7BQRA	0345428501	87344379	Destiny's Way (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 14)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Turning Point	Destiny's Way is the 15th New Jedi Order novel.  In the previous volumes, the Yuuzhan Vong have been bloodied at Coruscant and Borleias.   Now it's the turning point and Jacen is coming home.      In this novel, Jaina initiates a plan to destroy a major Yuuzhan Vong flagship carrying the Supreme Overlord at Obroa-skai, the library world;  using Trickster, her captured frigate analogue, Jaina seems to flee with a New Republic task force in pursuit.  When the Yuuzhan Vong take the bait, the New Republic force uses their new tools to jam communications and sow confusion.  Only one Yuuzhan Vong frigate escapes the trap.  Athough Jaina  recognizes that the battle was a significant victory for the New Republic, she is still disappointed to learn that the Supreme Overlord was not on the flagship.    Although Jaina doesn't know it, the New Republic has just destroyed the last mobile reserve force available to the Yuuzhan Vong.  Now the Supreme Overlord is forced to consolidate and regroup, thereby giving the New Republic some breathing room.      The New Republic senate chooses a new head of state and the New Republic military begins to replace its losses.  Moreover, they accept a plan devised by Admiral Ackbar to train the replacement forces and then to lure the Yuuzhan Vong into a killing ground.    Jacen has come to see the Yuuzhan Vong as part of Life and therefore worthy of Jedi protection.  Moreover, he convinces Luke that the absence of the Yuuzhan Vong within the Force is a failure of Jedi perception and Luke changes Jedi policy toward the Yuuzhan Vong.  Jacen also learns that he has the ability to coordinate large numbers of ships while in meld with other Jedi and becomes an integral part of Ackbar's plan.  Moreover, he continues his secret contact with the World Brain on Coruscant and advises the Brains on ways to harass the Yuuzhan Vong.    Truly, the turning point has come.  Either the New Republic will began to regain lost ground or will be destroyed.  This novel is a must read for those who have followed the New Jedi Order series.  While it has plenty of soul-searching and sorrows, it is also jam-packed with action.  Enjoy!    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-12-27
1293011:US	49390985	RG0EPBHITX8VT	0756400627	782453290	The Better Part of Valor (Valor Novel)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Marines in a Maze	The Better Part of Valor is the second novel in the Confederation series.  After bringing home the surviving marines from Silsvah, Staff Sergeant Torin Kerr is detached to a recon unit investigating \\"an unidentified alien vessel drifting dead in space\\".  ...    This novel differs in many respects from Valor's Choice.  The naval problems are mostly a sideshow and the Others soldiers are just more of the same.  The real problem is the personnel, particularly Captain Tarvik, and the alien ship.  All indications are that the ship is running rats in a maze, setting puzzles to be solved by both parties in competition.  Torin, of course, is mainly concerned with getting her group home without further casualties and could otherwise care less about the ship's agenda.    Recommended for all Huff fans and anyone who enjoys tense military interaction dramas, with a touch of jarhead humor.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-12-26
1293450:US	49390985	R238S7NT7QEHM	0671720244	751765365	Insurrection (Starfire)	Books	5	48	49	N	N	Alienation and Inalienable Rights	Insurrection (1990) is the first published novel in the Starfire series.  However, it is the last in internal chronological sequence and should be read after The Shiva Option.  It begins several generations after the Fourth Interstellar War against the Bugs.    The Legislative Assembly of the Terran Federation has long been dominated by the Corporate Worlds at the expense of the Fringe Worlds.  Now the Corporate Worlds have devised a plan to reapportion the Assembly by merging with the Orion Khanate, thereby reducing the Fringe World power base.  They are frustrated at the last moment by bad publicity generated when Oskar Dieter, a Corporate World leader, personally insults Fionna MacTaggart, leader of the Fringe Worlders.  However, the leader of the Corporate World delegation, Simon Taliaferro, plots to assassinate Fionna in order to throw the Fringe Worlders into a fury so that they will resign from the Assembly.  His plot works as planned, but the consequences are more that he reckoned with.    Terran Federation Navy Task Force 17 moves against Beaufort, Fionna's home planet, as a show of force, but it moves too slowly and the insurrection has started before it arrives.  Admiral Forsythe is advised to go slowly and negotiate with the rebels, but refuses and plans on firing on opposed ships if necessary.  This triggers a mutiny, with the Fringe Worlders taking or destroying all TF17 ships.  As the word is spread, other ships mutiny and flee to the Fringe Worlds.  Tenth Cruiser Squadron is too far within the Federation to flee, so takes the desperate gamble of raiding Galloway's World to destroy the largest Federation shipyards.  Overall, the Federation loses approximately half of Battle Fleet, about 80 percent of the Frontier Fleet, and most of their shipbuilding capability for at least 6 months.  This bad news forces the fall of the current government and brings Oskar Dieter to power as prime minister.      Dieter has been greatly changed by these events and feels much guilt over the assignation of Fionna.  He takes the position of prime minister only to alleviate the damage done by the extremists.  He continues to rearm while undermining the political power of the Corporate Worlds.  He establishes clandestine communications with the rebels to keep them informed of the political situation.    Admiral Ian Trevayne is cut off from the Inner Worlds by the mutineers and forced to flee through Khanate territory to the Zephrain system.  With the resources of the Gehenna R&D base on Zephrain A-III, Trevayne has new ships and weapons built for his fleet.  An initial attempt by the rebels to take Zephrain is repulsed.  Trevayne gains a very tentative channel with the Inner Worlds through the Khanate, but cannot send the new weapons data through that conduit.    The Federation consists of the Rump -- the Inner Worlds -- and the Rim under Governor-general Trevayne.  The Federation has lost all the choke points between themselves and the Rump;  only Admiral Trevayne's forces have been victorious over the rebels.  Dieter is beginning to use the term Terran Republic, the rebels own name for themselves, in cabinet sessions.  The situation is bleak.    This story is based on the political and economic situation between the British Empire and its American colonies prior to the Revolution.  As with that situation, the Fringe Worlds are being economically exploited by the Federation mercantile class with the assistance of the Legislative Assembly.  While Simon Taliaferro is not a king, he is just as mad as King George and just as dangerous to his own long-term interests.  The ensuing military actions in this story are naval rather than military, but otherwise the results are much the same.  Since the Khanate basically remains neutral, this story is greatly simplified compared to the Revolution by the lack of other major powers.    Of course, this plot has been used many times before -- i.e., the colonies breaking off from the mother world --but a cliche is not necessarily a falsehood nor need it be trivial.  For those that can't relate to the American Revolution, how many wars did England fight against France to establish its own sovereignty?  After all, England was a colony of France after William the Conqueror, at least from the French monarch's point of view.    Von Clausewitz's On War is quoted several times in this book.  The story reminds me of another axiom: \\"War is an extension of politics by other means\\".  Politicians should be careful what they ask for;  they may get it -- and choke on it.    Recommended for all Weber and White fans and anyone else interested in realpolitik, and warfare, as practiced in the far future.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-12-26
1294296:US	49390985	R107B6A0X8QKNG	0886778964	579829556	Valor's Choice (Valor Novel)	Books	5	23	28	N	N	The Measure of a Marine	Valor's Choice is the first novel in a combat SF series.  When attacked by the Others, the Confederation is unable to defend itself, since all the member species have evolved socially to the point of being unable to take another sentient's life.  So the Confederation invites the Humans to become their defenders;  subsequently, the Taykan and the Krai are also invited to join as defenders.<br />One and a half centuries later, Staff Sergeant Torin Kerr, acting first sergeant of Sh'quo Company, is ordered to gather a platoon for ceremonial duty guarding a delegation to the lizard-like Silsviss, a newly discovered aggressive species.  This presents some problems since all the platoons are short of troops due to casualties on the last mission, so she is tasked with choosing nine intact fireteams and three squad sergeants from the survivors.  The composite platoon rendezvouses with the diplomats on the Confederation Ship Berganitan.  The diplomatic party consists of four spider-like Mictoc, four massively humanoid Dornagian, and four bird-like Rakva.<br />When the Confederation mission reaches Silsvah, the marines demonstrate their proficiency at close-order drill, firearms, and standing guard.  The hot climate and boring duties soon send a party of six marines sneaking off to town to meet their counterparts.  The ensuing bar fight seems to speed up the negotiations, for the Silsviss terminate the visit in Hahraas early and send the Confederates to their final destination.  While enroute, the Confederate transport is shot down over a swamp within a Silsviss Wilderness Preserve.  After escaping the ship, the party slogs out of the swamp toward two nearby buildings.  There is some need for haste, since the Preserve is used to keep the Silsviss adolescent males occupied while their hormones levels gradually drop to civilized levels.  The process also gets rid of some of the surplus male population as they fight each other and anything else that challenges them, including Confederation diplomats and marines.<br />Most of the Silsviss adolescent males in the vicinity are headed toward the crash site, but several are near the buildings;  these attack the slow moving Dornagian and their escorts, who promptly take cover in some rocks.  Torin leads a sortie out to recover the Dornagian party and finds that the Silsviss adolescents don't run from, but rather toward, overwhelming fire.  During the night, the marines pick off the remainder of the first group, but the next day thousands of adolescent Silsviss appear on the surrounding hills, some armed with Confederation weapons from the wreckage.  The attacks continue for days.<br />Although some might think that this novel is too stereotypical, I find that the characters are fairly true to real life.  Soldiers usually are fairly superficial in their discussions;  too much intimacy is frowned on for several reasons, not the least that it hurts more when the other guy is KIA.  It also doesn't match the macho image that most soldiers try to project;  after all, who would want a wimp guarding their back.  Depression, on the other hand, is usually close at hand even in the barracks, for a soldier's life is often lonely and boring.<br />Unlike other reviewers, I would not classify this novel as \\"space opera\\";  I reserve that term for works like the Lensman or Legion of Space series.  This story is much more like the StarFIST and DMC novels, small-unit combat SF.  The fight sequences are most convincing;  Huff based them on a famous historical incident, yet filled in the details very realistically.  The finale was telegraphed by the Silsviss reaction to the bar fight, but does reflect realpolitik as practiced by politicians since the founding of the Roman empire -- and probably even earlier.  <br />Recommended for all Huff fans and anyone who likes small-unit combat SF.	2002-12-25
1301230:US	49390985	RGLY9PQ7ILL4R	0446526681	958613694	Lion's Blood: A Novel of Slavery and Freedom in an Alternate America	Books	5	24	25	N	N	A Close Mirror	Lion's Blood is a satire of race relations in this country in the latter half of the 19th century.  On one hand, it is an exercise in polemics and rhetoric, but on the other, it tells an engrossing story of two boys who have a complex master-slave relationship.  In many ways, it resembles an inverted Roots.<br />In ancient times, many Greeks, including Socrates, were attracted to Egypt, especially after a wounded Alexander claimed the throne of the Pharaoh.  Alexandrian Egypt, allied with Kush, established trade routes up the Nile and into southern Africa.  When Rome became a commercial and military threat, Egypt and Kush allied with Carthage and defeated Rome, which sank in obscurity.  When Islam arose, Bilal, a former Abyssinian slave, saved Muhammad's daughter, Fatima, from the Prophet's enemies, carried her to Abyssinia, and married her.  Fatima become an impassioned leader, second only to the Prophet himself, leading her followers on the jihad that established Islam throughout Africa.<br />When a plague swept through the Egyptian royalty, an Abyssinian gained the throne, giving both empires a black royalty.  The plague also swept Europe, killing the bulk of the population, and leaving only small villages and scattered barbarian tribes.  In 1863, the Egyptian and Abyssinian empires are the two superpowers.  Egypt has colonies in Bilalistan, corresponding to the Gulf states from Alabama to southeastern Texas, but most colonists are Abyssinian or Zulu.  It's just a matter of time before the colonists declare their own independence.<br />Aiden is an Irish boy who, along with his mother and sister, has been captured by Norse raiders.  They are sold in Andalus and shipped across the Atlantic to Bilalistan.  Some die, the survivors are sick, and all feel they are in hell.  In Bilalistan, Aiden and his mother are sold to Dar Kush, but his sister Nessa is not.  When they reach Dar Kush, the estate of the Wakil Abu Ali Jallaleddin ibn Rashid al Kush, Aiden meets the second son, Kai, and aids him in a prank that gets him switched.  Kai saves him from most of the punishment and selects him as his footboy.  Despite their difference in status, the boys develop a strong friendship.  However, situations keep happening that bring the friendship in conflict with the master-slave relation.<br />This story does not pull many punches in describing the effects of chattel slavery on both master and slave.  However, it dwells on the worst aspects of that institution only in passing.  Barnes points out the almost universal occurrence of slavery in ancient Europe and Asia.  In fact, the Norse are only slightly more energetic in slave taking in this story than their historical counterparts;  the Norse role in this book parallels the role of the Zulu and other warrior tribes in Africa.  Barnes is particularly harsh in his portrayal of the major Zulu character, Shaka, whom Barnes probably modeled on the historical Shaka, but the other Zulus are only slightly less fierce.<br />Of course, Barnes had to make choices in creating his mirror image of our timeline.  He choose Islam as the major religion, probably because we know more about it, but the chances of Muhammed becoming the Prophet of Allah would seem to be rather slim.  After all, Muhammed drew from Christian as well as Judaic and Zoroastrian sources for his Holy Book.  In this timeline, there would be no Constantine to sanction Christianity and to establish Constantinople, there would be no Byzantine Empire to influence the Arabs, hold down the Persians, and stop the tide of Islam into Eastern Europe, and thus Christianity would be a minor religion in the Near East.  <br />The worship of Baal, however, would likely be even more pervasive with the growth of a Carthage unhampered by Rome.  Slavery in Phoenicia and her colonies was much worse than that portrayed in Lion's Blood;  it involved human sacrifice, among other horrors, and was more like that practiced by the Aztecs.  The slavery in this book is more a matter of economics and greed like that of the latifundia of Rome and the plantations of the American South, large commercial farms which had few mechanized tools and thus needed large numbers of human laborers.  Slavery was a opportunistic solution practiced in many places and times;  for example, the Nazis practiced such slavery and rumors of slavers persist around Indonesia.<br />This is Barnes first effort at inventing a whole new world -- well, timeline -- and it is great.  The scope is larger, although the cast is still kept comfortably small.  The plot is predictable, but intentionally so.  He succeeded in making me see slavery from the eyes of a master and a slave and I didn't like it either way.  He has the best siege sequence since the Alamo, but with survivors to tell the story;  his equivalent to the \\"cross the line\\" speech was a corker!  At the end, the finale was a foregone conclusion, yet still an uplifting experience.<br />Barnes has been growing as a writer and this novel shows his versatility.  While this book may bring wider fame, I hope he also keeps writing stories with less scope but more innovative plots.  Recommended to all Barnes fans and anyone who has thought seriously of the effects of slavery on this country and it's peoples.	2002-12-17
1305007:US	49390985	ROFWJ3K46TMSO	0312869045	58153037	Up In a Heaval (Xanth, No. 26)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Another Punny Day in Xanth	Up In a Heaval (2002) is the 26th Xanth novel.  As usual, the plot is just a framework for the characters and puns.  The hero is Umlaut, a facsimile, whose talent is emulation.    Umlaut \\"accidently\\" takes shelter at the Zombie castle.  As he is mucking out the dungeon, Umlaut uses 19 questions to discover that the male dragon is really Sesame, a female Sea Serpent.  They also discover a pile of long overlooked Snail mail and meet Sammy the Cat.  Umlaut is charged with delivering the mail and both Sesame and Sammy join him in an extended tour of Xanth locations and personalities while the demoness Metria tries to distract and obstruct them.    At the isle of cats, the trio meet Claire Voyant, the knowing cat, who also joins them.  In Euphoria, they meet Surprise, the daughter of Grady Golem and Rapunzel, who becomes Umlaut's sweetheart and keeps visiting him in various ways during the journey.    Umlaut is faced with many temptations and doubts in his travels, but perseveres despite all.  Of the many puns encountered, Ptero-bull stands out, but other groaners abound.  Naturally, Anthony tells all, or at least enough, in the Author's Note.    This book is for Xanth fans and those who are not too proud to groan at a real stinker of a pun.  A really fun book.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-12-14
1305565:US	49390985	R36C690L36H1VB	0446528625	952437072	Hidden Empire: The Saga of Seven Suns - Book 1	Books	3	11	16	N	N	Old-fashioned Space Opera	Hidden Empire (2002) is the first novel in the Saga of Seven Suns series.  In it can be seen the dark side of Kevin Anderson;  he introduces likable characters and then kills them off and he piles threat upon threat until...The End...To Be Continued.    This novel is definitely not fun, but does have some interesting characters.  There are the archaeologists Margaret and Louis Colicos, the green priest Beneto Theron and his sister Esterra, the Young Prince Peter, Prime Designate Jora'h, the merchant Rlinda Kett, the Roamer sweethearts Jess Tamblyn and Cesca Peroni, and the green priest Nira Khali.  Then there are the villains:  Chairman of the Terran Hanseatic League Basil Wenceslas, Theron Ambassador Sarein, and the Mage-Imperator of the Ildiran Empire.  In addition, there are the usual supporters, hanger-ons, and stooges, plus the robots, both Terran and Klikiss.    It starts with the Hansa converting a gas-giant planet, Oncier, into a sun with technology discovered by the Colicos team among Klikiss ruins.  Unknown to the watchers, the abrupt ignition of Oncier kills millions, and maybe billions, of alien Hydrogues living in the planet.  Some survivors escape in their diamond-skinned spherical spaceships and later come back to destroy the science station that had initiated the conversion.  Subsequently the Hydrogues destroy a Roamer skymine skimming hydrogen from the gas-giant Golgen and then others at Erphano and elsewhere.  They even destroy the skymine at Qronha 3 in the alien Ildiran Empire.  Apparently the Hydrogues cannot discriminate between different rock-dwelling polities or species.    The Hansa has no clue about the situation until the Mage-Imperator tells them that the Klikiss Torch had provoked the Hydrogues to war.  The Mage-Imperator knows even more about the Hydrogues than he is willing to tell and he has a plan to divert the ire of the gas-planet dwellers from his empire.  This plan entails the involuntary involvement of humans and their genetic material.    This novel starts slowly as Anderson introduces the various characters and cultures, but picks up speed just before the break.  Some secrets are revealed, but not all;  the Hydrogues, for example, are totally incomprehensible.  The science is by no means hard;  in fact, it is rather soggy.  For example, Anderson doesn't understand the high velocities possible to the generation ships using even a low acceleration, but constant boost drive;  thus, the novel feels like the pulp fiction of the 1930s in that regard.      Hopefully, the next volume will be more positive than this one.  Readers might want to buy this volume now and hold it until the next book is available;  might avert some bad dreams.  Stay tuned.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-12-14
1305630:US	49390985	RQHOU3DBL4S7B	0312870043	823350665	Charisma	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Nature VS. Nurture	Charisma is, insofar as I am aware, the ninth solo SF novel by Steven Barnes.  He has also collaborated with Larry Niven (and others) in seven other SF novels.<br />In all his novels, Barnes focuses on the realization of human potential.  Initially, such realization was based on the principles of martial arts and continues to do so to some extent, as witness the prominence in this book of the Nine Principles of Musashi.  In his later works, Barnes draws more upon the discoveries and speculations of psychology.<br />In Charisma, a behavioral research laboratory has developed a series of treatments that can impress a person's personality unto the mind of a young child.  Moreover, this regime can be applied en masse  -- i.e., to many small groups of children -- by relatively unskilled personnel.  With secret funding from another group, the laboratory precedes to test these procedures on selected, but uninformed, children throughout the country.<br />One of the test groups is involved in an infamous childcare abuse scandal in Claremont, Washington.  Renny Sand had covered the case and met the family of Patrick Emory, one of the allegedly abused children.  He was impressed by all three, but greatly stirred by the poise and beauty of Vivian, the mother.  Six years later, the now down and almost out reporter stays overnight in Claremont, asks a few questions, learns that Otis, the father, has left his wife, and almost decides to visit the family, but instead sends a friendly email to Vivian.<br />Now 13 year old Patrick Emory, and his buddies from Claremont Daycare, are small-time entrepreneurs, earning money for themselves and helping Vivian increase the profits from her shop, Costumes, Period.  The local dopers are having trouble with an outside motorcycle gang who intend to take over the drug trade.  The outsiders beat up Manny, the dopers' youngest son and Patrick's friend, and then call out the locals to a meet by throwing a brick with a note through the front window.Since the locals are not home, Patrick and associates find the note and then throw the brick, note and all, through the front window of a local gay gym.  When the outsiders get to the meeting place, the overdeveloped ironpumpers work them over so bad that several gang members leave town.<br />Patrick is fated to have other contacts with the motorcycle gang and to learn more about his nightmares and other oddities.<br />This novel tackles the old question of nature versus nurture and illustrates how both influence behavior.  While the central premise -- impressing personality traits -- is probably not possible at this time -- except maybe in CIA labs -- it could well become feasible.  How far should it be used?  Other books have addressed this question -- see Phoenix Ship by the Richmonds -- but Barnes has approached the subject in a different way.<br />Barnes keeps getting better with each book.  If you thought Blood Brothers was good, read this one.  Recommended for all Steven Barnes fans and anyone who likes deep psychological thrillers, honest and hardworking heroes, dirty scumbags getting their just deserts, and a touch of romance.	2002-12-13
1307084:US	49390985	R22YFH7TKCAY6Y	0441009816	113566570	DeathDay	Books	3	11	15	N	N	Armageddon from Space	Death Day (2001) is the first novel in a duology about the invasion of Earth by the alien Saurons.  It is followed by Earthrise.    The Saurons destroy New York, Paris, Moscow, and other major cities in the first few minutes of the attack, killing over 3 billion people.  With the destruction of Washington, and the Pentagon, political leadership devolves to the highest ranked remaining cabinet officer, Michael Olmsworthy, Secretary of the Air Force.  He is in the TOC below McChord AFB and, when the aliens want to talk, he goes to meet them.  Unfortunately, the Saurons are irritated by the insult, kill Olmsworthy, and chastise Alexander Ajani Franklin, governor of the state of Washington, for wasting perfectly good servants on a useless gesture.  It seems the Saurons have castes, with the black-skinned Zin at the top, the brown-skinned Kan below them, and the white-skinned Fon at the bottom.  Franklin is black and the others were not, hence the insult.    The Saurons have a made a list of suitable candidates for leadership of their human slaves, of which Franklin is the leading survivor.  After Franklin accepts, hoping to ameliorate slave conditions, he finds that the Saurons are using his simulated image to promote their program.  The novel spends the first third of the book introducing the main characters:  a UN security man Jack Manning, his sister Marta Manning, ex-ranger George Farley and his buddy Deacon Smith, the white supremacist Jonathan Ivory, the historian Boyer Blue, doctor Seekko Sool, ranger Velo Kell, the StarCom worshipper Sister Andromeda, and USN PO3 Darby Stokes.    It also acquaints us with some of the Ra'Na, who have been slaves of the Saurons for two hundred years:  Fra Pas Pol, Dro Tog, and P'ere Has.  Fra Pol eavesdrops on the Zin and discovers that the Saurons are due to die on Earth.  When he reports the conversation to Dro Tog, he is told that Tog will handle it.  Nevertheless, Fra Pol autopsies a dead Fon and finds it is pregnant and the nymph is still alive.  He spreads the word, even to the Fon, who are not aware of their impending demise.    Meanwhile, the Free Taggers, kids with spray cans, start using their graffiti to teach the Fon to read and the Fon also begin to uncover details of the Zin plot.  At this point, the reader starts to understand the significance of the chapter headings, i.e., Death Day Minus 155, within the book.  A new sense of urgency begins to develop.    This novel starts slow, but begins to build momentum in the middle.  Franklin acquires a security detail, headed by Manning, Doctor Sool sets up a clinic, Sister Andromeda collaborates with the Saurons, Darby Stokes joins an attack of the Sauron shuttles, and the white supremacists attempt an assassination of Franklin.  Thus ends the first volume in the series.      While this novel was probably influenced by Independence Day, it is more of a rebuttal than an imitation of that plot;  odds are that the invasion will have accomplished its major objectives before anyone on Earth realizes the destruction is coming from space.  What are the chances that Washington wouldn't be a prime target and thus zapped in the first few minutes.  Bye-bye Pentagon, White House, etc.    This isn't Battlefield Earth either;  in Hubbard's book, the hero overcomes his enemies single-handedly.  Franklin definitely is not alone in his resistance to the Saurons;  the humans, the Ra'Na, and even the Fon are required to repel the invaders.  Stay tuned for the sequel.	2002-12-12
1309731:US	49390985	R3UCTFAFMUQLYQ	0671318497	56778923	Warlock: Storm over Warlock, Ordeal in Otherwhere, Forerunner Foray (Forerunner #1 - #3)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Prime Norton Stories	Warlock is a compilation of three novels -- Storm Over Warlock, Ordeal in Otherwhere, Forerunner Foray -- which have long been out a print in hardbound form, although frequently reprinted as paperbacks.    These novels have the signature characteristics of the early Norton stories:  courageous young persons coping with adversity on their own.  Her science fiction stories often added aliens and animals, telepathy and other psionic powers, the Thieves' Guild and the Patrol, and refugee survivors from interstellar wars, all of which are found in these novels.     Storm Over Warlock is the story of Shann Lantree, a contract laborer from the Dumps of Tyr, who is working on Warlock for the Terran Survey Corps.  When Throgs attack the camp, he escapes with a pair of mutant wolverines.  Later, he finds Ragnar Thorvald, the expedition leader, who had been away, but returned to Warlock only to be shot down by the Throgs.  Lantree and Thorvald raid the Throg-occupied Survey camp for equipment and supplies and then head off to find the natives.  The natives, however, do not want to be found and have a way of getting into people's head and making them do things against their will.    Ordeal in Otherwhere is about Charis Nordholm, a virtual slave of an illegal trader, Jagan.  She has been acquired to act as liaison with the natives on Warlock, for the planet is a matriarchy.  The female Wyverns are scaly and saurian, but have great psionic powers.  They help Charis to escape from Jagan, provide her with a disk of power, and teach her some basic psionic skills, including telepathy and teleportation.  On an impulse, she teleports to Jagan's camp site and finds it has been raided by an unknown force.  She is discovered there by Shann Lantree, who is now a cadet in the Survey Corps.  They pool their knowledge and decide that the male Wyverns, who have no psionic powers, are rising up against the matriarchy.  Moreover, offworlder are using a psionic nullifier to block the matriarchs'power.    Forerunner Foray is about Ziantha, a sensitive from the Dipple who has been trained by the Thieves' Guild.  She finds a compelling object during a foray into the treasure trove of High Lord Jacundus and develops a psychic tie with it.  Her mistress, Yasa, a Salarika, and Ogan, a renegade parapsychologist, discover that the object is of Forerunner origin and is highly charged with psychic energy.  They organize an expedition to discover its origins.  On Wayfarer, they discover that the object has come from the tomb of Turan.  Using her mind seach abilities, Ziantha guides them to the tomb, but is overwhelmed by the memories in the object.  She awakes in the body of Vintra, war-captive of Turan, and Turan is occupied by someone else's mind.    Forerunner Foray is not about Warlock, per se, but reminders of Warlock and the Wyverns pop up throughout the novel.  These stories were written during one of the most productive periods of Andre Norton's career.  During this time, she wrote the first 12 Witch World stories, the first 4 Time Traders stories, the Magic series for younger children and many others.  She also co-edited the Gates To Tomorrow anthology for young people.  Although still ignored by the critics, she began to attract wider notice among the fans, not only for her juveniles, but also for her adult fantasies.    Warlock is recommended for all Andre Norton fans and anyone who likes stories about young people, and their animal friends, successfully coping with a hostile environment and even more hostile sentients.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-12-10
1312572:US	49390985	R2JIYMXTAALD99	067131985X	921098133	March Upcountry (March Upcountry (Hardcover))	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A Stroll Through the Countryside, Not	March Upcountry (2001) is the first book in a trilogy or possibly longer series. In several ways this series resembles C. S. Forester's Flying Colours, a tale of fighting men stranded on foreign soil who are trying to evade the enemy and capture transportation home.<br /><br />Prince Roger, the Empress of Man's third son, is making a goodwill tour to Leviathan aboard the assault transport Charles DeGlopper. Unfortunately, the transport is sabotaged and has to land on Murduk, the closest suitable planet with a spaceport. The Imperials discover, however, that it has been occupied by the enemy and two enemy cruisers are in orbit. Roger and his marine bodyguards cram into four assualt shuttles with as much materiel as they can carry and set course for the planet while the navy takes on the cruisers. The DeGlopper manages to kill one cruiser and lures the other to close range, then self-destructs, taking that cruiser with it. The shuttles land without being detected. Now they only have to travel thousands of kilometers across the continent to a seaport, take ship to an island, and then assault the spaceport, hopefully capturing a ship without being detected. Moreover, the planet is inhabited by rather bellicose sentients, so they will likely have to fight their way to the coast.<br /><br />As they march out from the landing site, Roger kills a large, scaly herbivore after Captain Pahner calls hold fire and gets reamed out by the Captain. Shortly thereafter, Cord, a native, shows up to meet the person who killed the flar beast that was chasing him. When told that Roger had done it, Cord declares that he owes a life debt to Roger and is now his slave. After bivouacing among vampires and marching through a jungle filled with their flesh dissolving larva, the surviving marines reach Cord's village and are made welcome.<br /><br />Cord's tribe, The People, have a problem with the local city-state, Q'Nkok; the city folk are stealing their wood and giving them inferior trade goods. They could attack the city, but would then be vulnerable to other tribes. The marines accompany them to the city, where Roger meets the King of Q'Nkok and explains the problems. Since the King seems to be friendly, the marines bug the various noble Houses and discover that three of them have conspired to stir up the villagers, creating confusion so they can overthrow the king. The marines help the King to thwart the plot and in return receive supplies and support for their journey.<br /><br />The book continues in the same vein as the marines travel toward Far Voitan and beyond, living off the land and saving their munitions as best they can. One of the larger problems is a flaw in some plasma rifles, similar to problems in Viet Nam with the M-16 rifle and in World War II with the Sterling rifle; somehow low cost bidders frequently get away with shoddy methods. In the case of the Luger pistol, the German army never was able to get the design fixed or replaced; instead, many Army officers bought P-38 pistols for a personal weapon while the Gestapo preferred PPKs.<br /><br />This series is a high adventure tale somewhat like the story of The Ten Thousand, but with a company-size unit using high-tech weapons. It is also a coming of age story, for Roger begins this journey as a somewhat spoiled and naive nobleman whom his mother doesn't fully trust. Each new situation provides Roger with more insight into his strengths and weakness and allows him to grow as a man, a leader, and a lover. The romance between Roger and Sergeant Despreaux is barely noticeable in this volume, but is surely destinied to grow.<br /><br />The cover is nice, but not much like the book. What would anyone want with a mirrored camosuit; maybe laser reflective? Have you noticed how often the cover doesn't quite match the story!<br /><br />The next installment in this sequence is [[ASIN:074343580X March To the Sea]].<br /><br />Recommended for Weber and Ringo fans and anyone else who likes military adventures with a touch of political intrigue.<br /><br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2002-12-08
1314098:US	49390985	R28388FZU7IGXW	0671560948	641450157	Steel Magic	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Avalon Under Siege	Steel Magic (1965) -- AKA Gray Magic -- is the first fantasy novel in the Magic series for older children.  It is based loosely on the legends of King Arthur and Roland.  It involves a magic gate to Avalon and quests to find three lost tokens of power.    The Lowery children -- Greg, Eric, and Sara -- are staying at Tern Manor with their Uncle Mac while their father and mother are in Japan.  Sara wins a picnic basket at the Firemen's Strawberry Festival and the children decide to put it to use.  The next day they pack a picnic lunch and search for a lost lake.  After winding and crawling through the underbrush, they find the lake and, on as island in the middle of it, they also discover a miniature castle.    Although the doorway has been blocked with masonry, they are able to gain entrance by chipping away the mortar.  Once within the castle, they are surrounded by a gray mist and, eventually, they find themselves somewhere else.  After a brief exploration, they determine that they could not be on the island and are far from any place familiar.  Opening the picnic backet, they start to eat while discussing the strange events, whereupon an unexpected guest shows up for lunch.    The young man introduces himself as Huon of the Horn, the Warden of the West.  He also tells them of the Warden of the East, Arthur.  He informs them that they are in Avalon and tells them of the three lost objects:  Excalibur, his Horn, and the ring of Merlin Ambrosius.  Since they have been admitted through the Gate of the Fox, he explains, they must be in Avalon for a purpose.  When questioned about his knife, he states that it is dwarf silver because the natives of Avalon cannot handle iron without harm.    Huon takes them to Caer Siddi, where they meet Merlin.  There they discover that evil has moved deep within Avalon and that the situation is very bad.  Moreover, they are told that events in Avalon are mirrored in their own world.  Merlin asks them to use their power of iron to retrieve the lost tokens and, when they agree, conducts them to a magic mirror, where they each take a stainless steel implement from the picnic basket and pass through to separate locales.    This novel is a story of courage and perseverence, with each child facing and overcoming their special fears.  It has brave people and magical animals, both good and evil, including a very wise fox.    Recommended for all Norton fans and any child who loves animals, magic, and brave heros and heroines.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-12-07
1314290:US	49390985	R2KBKTEBRGY8FG	0312943644	887347690	Phoenix in the Ashes	Books	5	20	20	N	Y	The Quality of Uniqueness	Phoenix in the Ashes is a collection of six stories.  They are both a demonstration of the range of Joan Vinge's talent and an clear indication of the importance of characterization in her works.  All the protaganists in these stories are alienated in some way from their culture and each must resolve their own eccentric problems.    The title story involves two individuals, each an outcast in their own society, who learn to fulfill each other's needs;  it strongly reminds me of the Gift of the Magi in tone.  Voices From the Dust has two scientists who detest each other, but find common ground when an alien presence seizes control of their minds.  The Storm King is a tale of emotional growth, as a noble boy learns empathy.  The Peddler's Apprentice also has a boy growing both emotionally and intellectually, finally gaining some measure of wisdom.  Psiren has Cat coming to grips with his power and guilt.  Mother and Child tells of an alien who develops a degree of affection and appreciation for humanity through his contact with a human woman and her child.    Each of these stories involves an individual who is in some way almost unique in their society, but these stories have a larger theme of the uniqueness of all persons.  They seem to say, forget the averages and concentrate on the distinctly different aspects of each person.    The only problem I have with Joan D. Vinge is that she doesn't write enough.  Of course, quantity doesn't replace quality.  And Vinge exemplifies quality to me.  Enjoy!    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-12-06
1314516:US	49390985	R3I9R6184FWR34	0312877897	766903432	50 in 50: Fifty stories for fifty years!	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Fifty Years of Craftmanship	This collection contains 50 stories written by Harry Harrison in 50 years of professional writing of science fiction. Most of the stories are well-written, but a few are outdated by subsequence events. Some are deliberately shocking -- Rescue Operation, Roommates -- and others are humorous -- The Man From P.I.G. -- and some supposed to be -- Space Rats of the CCC -- but some of the best stories aren't in this collection since they were expanded into novels and even into movie scripts.    Although already writing in other fields, Harrison originally came into science fiction as an artist and some samples of his works are included. Harrison also worked as an editor, first in comics and then moving on to science fiction magazines. He also edited the Best SF series with Brian Aldiss, the Nova series, and the SF Authors' Choice anthologies. He is probably best known for the Stainless Steel Rat series, which started off with a bang, but have become rather predictable. His Deathworld trilogy continues to be admired by his long time fans, showing the advantage of quitting while you are ahead.    Harrison and I are almost diametrically opposed on many political and social issues, so I wish I knew the man personally and could sit down with him for extented discussions of anything and everything. Reading his works is the next best thing and I have done so for over 40 years. I still think he is one of the best at his craft.    Having read Harrison for so long, most of these stories are old friends that I read when first published, but some were new to me. I bought it for old times sake, but I suggest you try this collection if you have never read any of Harrison's short works. It should be an interesting experience.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-12-06
1314629:US	49390985	RAYFNM99QWAHL	0345439902	913102079	The Best Alternate History Stories of the 20th Century	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Some Representative Stories About History	The Best Alternate History Stories of the 20th Century (2001) has fourteen stories and an introduction by Harry Turtledove.  The introduction is an excellent review of the genre and the stories themselves are gems that have long been buried in moldy magazines or ancient -- to the younger fans -- anthologies.  I have encountered several of the stories, but others were entirely new to me.    Robinson's The Lucky Strike has the Enola Gay crash on takeoff.  DiChario's The Winterberry has JFK live through the shooting in Dallas.  Turtledove's Islands in the Sea has Constantinople fall to the Muslims in the 8th century.  Shwartz's Suppose They Gave a Peace has McGovern winning the presidency.  Niven's All The Myriad Ways has humanity facing the realization of a probability multiverse where all uncertainities are resolved in each and every way.      Bear's Through Road No Whither has the Nazis winning World War II...temporarily.  Benford's Manassas, Again isn't really alternate history so much as cyclic history, with robots instead of Negroes.  Chalker's Dance Band On the Titantic has an intercontinual ferry boat.  Moore's Bring the Jubilee has a historian accidently disrupting the timeline so that the Union wins the Civil War.  Anderson's Eutopia has a universe in which Greece never declined.      Sanders' The Undiscovered has Shakespeare captured by American Indians.  Sterling and Shiner's Mozart in Mirrorshades has 18th century Europe invaded by contemporary American culture.  Steele's The Death of Captain Future is not so much an alternate history as the story of the birth of a folk myth.  Linaweaver's Moon of Ice has another story of the Nazis winning WWII, but with a future much more different than they imagine.    Some prior reviewers have pointed out that not all of these stories are alternate history.  I must agree with this in two cases (see above) but the time travel stories do impact subsequent events to produce an alternate history and the intercontinual travel stories are tours of other histories.  These stories could be classified differently but history is a prominent theme in ALL of them.    This volume could have been titled \\"Some Representative Stories About History From a 20th Century Perspective\\", but you couldn't get all that on the spine in any reasonable size type.  The publisher probably had something to do with the \\"Best\\" part of the title.    These stories are not history per se, but they demonstrate some truths about history.  They make you think about the consequences of accident and error, suggest that we can't ever know all about the past, and question whether we are any good at predicting the future.    This volumes, and others like it, remind us that the past is unchangeable, but is also the source of today and tomorrow.  Do we really know what our options are?  Read and consider.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-12-06
1315292:US	49390985	R31AJCAQYS5T44	0312866747	304108854	A Wizard in a Feud (Rogue Wizard)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not the Feud of the Gods	Wizard in a Feud (2001) is the ninth SF novel in the Rogue Wizard series.  While these stories don't have the glamour of A Wizard in Spite of Himself, the author has kept up the interest fairly well for such a long series.    Another world, another problem.  When Herkimer, the robot, has a memory fault, Magnus and Alea land on the first livable planet.  The planet seems to have been settled by Scots and to have achieved an early 19th century level of technology.  Rather than stay on board, Gar -- AKA Magnus -- and Alea are quite happy to have shore leave after 4 months in space.    As they hike through the woods, they encounter foot high winged humanoids, the fairies, who question them and let them go.  Later, Gar meets the elves, a related species without the wings.    Gar and Alea meet many of the clan folk, and some outlaws, and begin to understand the situation.  Of course, the problem is feuding, with each clan afraid to stop unilaterally.  Moreover, the clans outlaw any of their folk who are too different or make too much trouble, and they consider talk of peace as troublemaking.  Naturally, Gar, Alea, the wee folk, and Evanescent, the stowaway guardian, combine to bring peace to the planet.    The story is interesting even if improbable and totally illogical.  It is nice to see that Alea is beginning to trust her own abilities and to see Magnus in a romantic light.  Recommended to all Stasheff fans and anyone who likes light fantasy with a touch of humor.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-12-06
1315605:US	49390985	R33W0NZSZS4XI0	0345423356	883124959	Hell on Earth	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A deception of demons	Hell on Earth is an occult detective story written by the author of the Shattered World novels. While Reaves has several other such stories to his credit -- including one featuring the reporter Liz Russell -- I believe this is his first based on traditional Judeo-Christian mythology.    Colin is an orphan trained at the Scholomance in Transylvania, a school of dark magic. He has a Door that can apport him to any place on earth, but won't retrieve him. He did have the Trine, a mystical token of great power, but something Fallen has stolen it and left a smell of brimstone behind. Moreover, he has Zoel, an Unfallen Angel, who has come to ask him to help with a little problem. It seems that a demon has been born, the undead are walking, and the apocalypse may be near. No big deal for a magic wielding detective with an Angel sidekick, right?    The remainder of the story is a matter of searching for the Trine, questioning the suspects -- demons and such -- and checking out the various locales -- Vlad Dracula's castle, for one -- and putting the clues together. Along the way he picks up a few more assistants: the demon Asdeon, reporter Liz Russell, and ex-ranger Terry Dane.    This novel is bloody and violent, but more like suspenseful mystery that a horror story. Recommended for Reaves fans and anyone who likes magical detectives and occult mysteries.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-12-06
1317547:US	49390985	R19E1JA9WUNRXR	0765300125	665763998	Ithanalin's Restoration (Legends of Ethshar)	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	To Accept Responsibility	Ithanalin's Restoration (2002) is the eighth Ethshar novel, but the chronology is more complicated.  This novel actually occurs during the latter part of Spell of the Black Dagger and stands in contrast to it.    This story is a cautionary tale, taking place in Ethshar of the Rocks.  It demonstrates how wizardry is a dangerous business.  It even shows why a wizard should never be allowed to cook the family dinner.    Kilisha of Eastgate is the apprentice of Ithanalin the Wise.  The first impression of most people is that she is very ordinary.  Most of the time she doesn't even wear her apprentice robes, but she is quite capable of proving that she is a wizard's apprentice.  She is talented, but much too impulsive.    After a hard day trying to get the blood of a gray cat, she comes home to find the parlor empty of furniture, but containing one deanimated wizard, Ithanalin.  The mirror informs her that he tripped over a spriggan and spilled an animating potion all over the room, thereby losing portions of his persona to the furnishings and door latch and, of course, the spriggan.  Kilisha determines that Javan's Restorative spell can reanimate her master, but only if all the pieces of his persona are present.  Naturally, all the furniture, and the spriggan, have run away.    Kilisha tries to get help from the Guild, but they are preoccupied with the events in Ethshar of the Sands.  She then undertakes the task of recovering the furniture, and spriggan, collecting the proper ingredients, and learning Javan's Restorative on her own.  She does have help from Ithanalin's family, the neighbors, her family, and Kelder, the tax agent who was the proximate cause of the accident.  She employs a number of magical ploys to find and take back the furniture, including a death-defying dive off the Fortress walls.    This novel stars a young woman who accepts responsibility for restoring her master, facing and solving problem after problem.  She is plagued by her impulsiveness, buttakes steps to correct that problem also.  By the end of the story, she has shown a strength of character and resourcefulness of which even she wasn't aware.    In many ways, this is a typical Ethshar story.  The plots and problems vary, but the hero/heroine perseveres through everything that faces him/her.  Spell of the Black Dagger was an exception in that the story was not told from the point of view of the heroine;  of course, that gimmick displeased a lot of his fans.    In this novel, the heroine is the center of the story and is everything that a fan could want ... except ravishing beautiful, but Kelder might not agree.  Recommended to all Ethshar fans and anyone who likes light fantasy adventure with magical touches and dashes of humor.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-12-04
1318580:US	49390985	R1KS8D7FC51QIT	0756400856	988896530	Exile's Honor (Valdemar)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Question of Loyalties	Exile's Honor is a story of Valdemar during the reign of Sendar.  It is the backstory of Alberich, a Karsite military officer who becomes Weaponmaster of the Collegia.    Alberich was born in Karse as the illegitimate son of a tavern prostitute.  Despite his low birth, Alberich had a reasonably happy childhood with a supportive mother, a few friends, and a mentor, an old, and greatly respected, priest.      At the age of thirteen, he was taken into the Karsite military.  Eventually, he became a Captain through a battlefield promotion, over a couple of his superiors, following combat with border bandits, and is also awarded a white stallion of Shin'a'in breeding.  At this point, his \\"witch-power\\" informs him of the next target for the border bandits and he preemptively attacks with great success.  However, a Voice of Vkandis accuses him of witchcraft and intends to have him burned to death.  He is saved by the white stallion, who projects a mental voice into his mind telling what to do.  After his escape into Valdemar, Alberich is told that he has become the Chosen of the Companion Kantor and is expected to become a Herald of Valdemar.  While knowing the veniality of the Karsite Voices, Alberich is still loyal to the people of Karse.  How can he be a Herald without betraying his people?  This theme underlies the remainder of the story.    When Alberich is accepted into the Collegia as a Herald-trainee, he is much older than the other trainees, so his uniform must be specially made and the only available cloth is gray.  Thus, he adopts the gray uniform that is so prominent in later stories.  Since Alberich was the protege of two Karsite Weaponmasters, he is much more skilled with weapons than the other trainees and hence is assigned to assist the Weaponmaster, Dethor.  When Dethor retires, Alberich is moved up to the Weaponmaster position.  Alberich is also asked to assist the King's Own in internal surveillance of disruptive elements in Valdemar society and eventually becomes chief of the internal security establishment.    While a trainee, Alberich meets an old exiled priest of Vkandis, Father Hendrick, and his assistant, Acolyte Gerichen.  Father Henrick assures him that Vkandis is capable of making his will known without the assistance of any Voices;  in fact, he actually encourages Alberich to consider the Karsite Voices to be untrue to their god and their people.  Alberich forms an even closer relationship with Acolyte Gerichen, which continues throughout his life.  Alberich is also assigned to guard Selenay, the heir apparent, in her judicial duties.  Thus, he comes to appreciate the Princess-herald's good sense as well as the basic social philosophy of Valdemar.      In several respects, this novel reminds me of McCaffrey's dragonrider stories.  There is a similar feel to the cooperative, rather than competitive, political and personal relationships among the main characters.    This novel fills a gap in the history of Valdemar, yet is enjoyable in itself.  Hopefully, Lackey will continue to fill in holes -- such as the founding of Valdemar -- within this history.  Recommended to Valdemar fans and anyone who likes stories with strong characters resolving moral and personal conflicts.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-12-03
1319971:US	49390985	RSF1SRFCF6EHH	0451458486	353854112	The Peshawar Lancers	Books	4	6	6	N	N	King of the Peshawar Lancers	The Peshawar Lancers is not part of a series at this time, but leaves enough unexplained aspects of the culture to support other novels.  It is much more upbeat than the dysutopian Draka series, but does contain a small echo of that society in the Cape Viceroyalty.  It also echoes somewhat both the General and Islander series.  Unlike the Flashman stories, all the cowards in this novel are villains or dupes.<br />In the mid-1870s, a &quot;violent spray of comets&quot; has rendered the European climate unsuitable for agriculture.  England has moved much of her population to India to take advantage of the remaining croplands.  Technology has not advanced much beyond the prior level and has even regressed in many areas.  Air travel exists by means of dirigibles and rail travel by steam locomotive.  The navy is still using steam powered ironclads and the army still has lancers.  Vehicle engines have advanced only as far as the Sterling cycle.  Biology and analytic engines, however, have advanced significantly.<br />The social climate is somewhat more flexible than the Victorian era, although there are still many who think women should remain in the home, and King John II does not think it odd that women are working scientists.  One woman, Cassandra King, is an astronomer working on a project to detect possible colliding objects.  She has accompanied a 34 inch mirror back to Oxford, the university city, where armed men attack her associates and attempt to destroy the reflector.<br />Her brother Athelstane, a Captain of the Peshawar Lancers, has just returned from a punitive raid over the Khyber Pass and is asked to meet with a Political Officer, Sir Manfred Warburton, who introduces him to Colonel Henri de Vascogne of the Empire of Algiers and France.  Warburton also conducts a fairly thorough examination of his knowledge and attitudes.  Returning from his meeting, Athelstane is attacked by a Thug.  <br />Later, Cassandra and Athelstane meet Warburton in Delhi.  Thus starts an adventure story in the tradition of Kim, but with modern overtones.<br />This story is densely twined within the culture of the Indian subcontinent;  it portrays the people, customs, and language in a realistic and culturally consistent manner.  Even the British Imperium is true to Victorian society intermingled with the British Raj, with some advances both social and technological.  Although the British Empire is less sophisticated in many ways than contemporary society, it is much richer in the traditions of the Indian and neighboring peoples.  Like the India of Kipling's time, this society is rampant with violence and intrigue, but with even higher stakes.<br />Stirling makes this story come alive with a people faced with disaster, but carrying on as best they can, while also trying to improve their society.  He draws his heroes and heroines from many ethnic and social backgrounds and uses them to introduce the many facets of this culture;  his villains are also well developed even if not treated sympathetically.  Recommended for those who like exotic locales, intelligent and courageous characters, and high adventure.	2002-12-02
1320656:US	49390985	R3I6DJBZ8EYY7C	0743448308	475602164	The Woad to Wuin: Sir Apropos of Nothing Book 2	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Apropos the Villain	Woad to Wuin is the second in the Sir Apropos of Nothing series.  These novels stand in contrast to Knight Life.  They seem to have two primary goals:  first, poke fun at most of the sacred cows of fantasy, and, second, have a punny time doing it.    If you missed the first novel, know that Apropos is a non-hero, not an anti-hero;  while he is self-centered, lacks courage, has slight empathy, has little ambition, and doesn't respect the property of others, he does has some consideration for others, as long as no harm comes to him. However, the only person he fully trusts is himself and sometimes not even himself.      In this novel, he finds himself in the adventure of Bubo, the hairyfooted dwarf, and is snared by a magic ring that makes him irresistible to women.  They force themselves on him and treat him as a sex toy.  He is first attacked by Sharee and then by every women with a pulse for miles around.  He is rescued by Walker and a band of dwarves, who lead him to the Flaming Nether Regions to dispose of the ring.  Afterwards, Apropos returns to Sharee, but she blames him for the sexual gymnastics and tries to zap him with lightning bolts.    After a couple years as a tavern owner, Apropos finds himself caught between Sharee and a LOUDMOUTHED oaf named Beliquose, who burns the house down with Apropos and Sharee inside.      Suddenly Apropos wakes up and finds himself elsewhere...and elsewhen.  He is now the Peacelord, leader of a band of conquering, brutal cutthroats.  Moreover, he finds that he is invulnerable, with nothing to fear;  well, almost nothing.  He goes on an orgy of hostile wish fulfillment: conquering, pillaging, and burning.  And, best of all, he has a beautiful and lusty consort and bedmate.  What more could he ask for?  Well, you know Apropos' luck, always ready to turn against him.    Apropos comes out of this episode of total villainy with just a little more empathy and compassion.  I would suspect that by the time David is through with him (and us), Apropos just might be a real human being.  Stay tuned!    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-12-02
1320713:US	49390985	R21E9CRWGBP41C	0786246960	869592956	Star Song and Other Stories (Five Star First Edition Science Fiction and Fantasy Series)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Light Comedy With Music	Star Song and Other Stories is, insofar as I am aware, the fourth collection of Zahn's short works.  It contains 6 stories, of which I had already read 3 in Analog.    Point Man is a humorous, but exciting story in the David and Goliath tradition.  Hitmen-See Murderers is also humorous, yet with a bit of wisdom.  The Broccoli Factor, another humorous story, is technological slapstick, but even stranger ideas have come true.  The Art of War is serious yet light, with an upbeat ending.  The Play's the Thing is pure farce.  Star Song is another serious yet light story.    If you haven't read any Zahn works other than the Star Wars novels, you should know that he has written at least 19 other books during his career.  This collection shows his capabilities in short, light fiction.  It strongly resembles Vernor Vinge's True Names in the innovative themes and easy to read style.    Overall, these are all fun, and some funny, stories.  Perfect for a damp, dreary, dark evening.  Recommended for anyone who likes light humor,   clear writing, and original approaches.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-12-02
1320715:US	49390985	R32HFJITK0ISR6	0312869886	670557541	The Apocalypse Door	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Mushroom Principle	The Apocalypse Door (2002) is  supposed to be a funny satire.  Yet it reads, despite the humor, much like Kurtz's Adept novels or Reave's Hell on Earth or Zicree et al's Magic Time.<br /><br />It tells two stories, one starring Pete, an agent of the inner Temple, and the other featuring Mike, an agent of the Company. Pete takes a potential inner temple inductee on a \\"sneak and peek\\" into the Best Long-Term (BLT) warehouse looking for missing UN peacekeepers. Mike is dropped into the jungle to look for a missing friendly. Pete finds something that he is not expecting, thereby discovering the possible onset of the apocalypse, and is drafted back into the CIA. Mike is caught by the local police and tortured by the bad guys. The stories eventually intersect in an unexpected manner.<br /><br />Along the way, Mike meets some interesting locals, but Pete meets a nun assassin who likes to dress as a prostitute or MTV star, a former satanist who was kicked out for giving evil a bad name, several Teutonic Knights, and a few mushrooms, not to mention a brazen head. Just to add to the fun, two of Pete's contacts turn up as bodies without faces.<br /><br />While he pokes fun at the intelligence community, MacDonald does it like an insider. His use of terms and methods is right on the money, as is his cynicism; you can't play the spy game without getting dirty. And his religious references are also correct insofar as I could tell; maybe he DID attend a parochial school.<br /><br />This is a fun book in several ways. I especially liked the comment about owning the Maltese Falcon. This is much too good to be a singleton novel.<br /><br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2002-12-02
1322280:US	49390985	RG9GNUY2NOU6C	0671318489	671131382	Shiva Option	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Long But Realistic	The Shiva Option (2002) is the fourth published novel in the Starfire series.  The first volume, Insurrection, chronologically follows this novel, but the other two are prequels.  While it can be read separately, this story is a continuation of the events described within In Death Ground.      This duology describes a war similar in many ways to the Pacific theater of World War II.  The enemy has the worst aspects of the Japanese military, but exaggerated to the ultimate degree.  IDG has the desperate battles prior to Midway and the Coral Sea and TSO has the grinding battles thereafter, successively retaking island after island until finally Okinawa falls.  The Divine Wind is prominent in this book, but the amphibious assaults and ground combat of that war are mostly eliminated by the Shiva Option.  Considering that the defensive phase of war in the Pacific took only a few months yet the offensive phase took four and half years, it is obvious why this book is so long.  If the enemy can be stopped, it most often must be done quickly or not at all;  defeating the enemy, however, is long and hard.    The prologue occurs shortly after the failure of Operation Pesthouse.  Fleeing the Bugs, Survey Fleet 19 encounters a new set of sentient beings, the Star Union of Crucis, who have already had violent contact with the Bugs.  This new group joins with SF19 to destroy the pursuing Bug fleet and then both withdraw to the Star Union.    Meanwhile, back at Alpha Centauri, the Joint Chiefs of the Grand Fleet, and their staffs, meet to discuss strategy now that the Bugs have terminated their current offensives.  Naval Intelligence reports that a new class of warships, designated Monitors and even larger than superdreadnoughts, has been deployed by the Bugs.  They also state that analysis of the Bug artifacts has shown five distinctly different construction techniques, probably indicating five separate manufacturing centers, designated as Home Hives.  Moreover, the initial Bug contact was probably with Home Hive Five.    After a spate of shipbuilding and stockpiling, the Grand Fleet takes the offensive at Zephrain.  Sixth Fleet sneaks into the enemy system through a closed warp point.  Since the warp point is not known to the Bugs and therefore unguarded, Sixth Fleet precedes under cloaking and successfully engages their initial targets before being detected.  After they destroy the Orbital Weapons Platforms and fight off a suicide attack, they send in the fighters to attack the planet with weapons of mass destruction.  The resulting megadeaths create a traumatic disturbance in the surviving Bug population that greatly degrades their performance and the fleet sterilizes the system.  Later analysis determines that the system was Home Hive Three.    The remainder of the novel is a series of strategic offensives against the remaining Home Hives.  Like its prequel, this volume is full of spatial warfare.  It also includes several nuclear bombardments of enemy planets -- the Shiva Option -- and one planetary assault with subsequent ground combat.    The Arachnid civilization in Starfire owes a lot to the Bugs in Heinlein's Starship Troopers, but the approach in this series is entirely different and much wider in scope.  These novels concentrate primarily on naval combat and equipment;  the only use of armored combat suits is by the Telikans in the above mentioned planetary assault.      It is obvious from this novel that the Arachnids are telepathic and form group minds within each Home Hive system.  Since Bug telepathy cannot bridge warp points, smaller group minds must exist within each separated system or fleet unit.  Moreover, the Arachnids have specialized warrior and worker castes and, since there are Bug analysts, probably also have a thinker caste.  No information on Bug propagation is available in this novel, so it cannot be determined if the hives are organized around a queen as in the Heinlein novel.    This novel also makes it obviousthat the Arachnid civilization has never developed psychosocially beyond the pure survival level.  Since the entire Arachnid population can be considered to be only five true individuals, social relationship would obviously remain simple.  Thus, each Home Hive and its auxiliary units would behave much like its spider namesake: rapacious and efficient.  Maybe it's good that we don't know anything about their sex life or reproductive methods.    My one criticism of this novel is the portrayal of politicians;  everyone of them has the civilian mindset.  So do the reporters, but who cares.  Why aren't there any ex-military politicians?  Surely the Fringe Worlds, at least, would sent a few reservist to the Legislative Assembly.    This novel is recommended to those who like realpolitik, naval combat, and politician bashing -- i.e., Heinlein fans -- and inside jokes (think Operation Bughouse).  If a sequel is forthcoming, I hope it takes less time.  And I further hope there are a few knowledgeable politicians -- such as in HH novels -- in the next one.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-11-30
1324212:US	49390985	RFGDVLCU5XVJ5	0756400864	732568675	Explorer (Foreigner 6) (Daw Books Collector, No. 1238)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The Province of Heaven	Explorer (2002) is the sixth book in the Foreigner sequence and the concluding volume in the second trilogy.  In this novel, the various factions go to Reunion station to confront the Pilots' Guild and possibly the alien ships.    In the previous volume, the Phoenix has been refueled at Alpha Station and prepared for the voyage, the atevi and Mospheiran passengers have come aboard, and the ship's crew has set course for Reunion.  But all is not yet settled; the various factions are still not fully reconciled, the events at Reunion remain unexplained, and Jase, the new Second Captain, is still uneasy about his competence.  The year long voyage isn't likely to be peaceful for Bren Cameron.    As Lord of the Province of Heaven, Bren is responsible for everything in the ship, but has only as much power over events as he can persuade others to give him.  One of his tasks is to establish a working relationship with Sabin, the First Captain, and to encourage her to share more information with Jase.  Just to add more complexity to his life, he also has to cope with Cajeiri, the ajii-apparent, who is practicing archery in the corridors and likewise being an active child.  However, Bren does have allies in Jase, the ajii-dowager Ilisidi, the Mospheiran roboticist Ginny, and his atevi staff.    When they get to Reunion, they find that the station has been attacked, but not destroyed, and the Pilots' Guild is in firm, even rigid, control.  They also find an alien ship observing the station.  Bren takes measures to undermine the Guild and to contact the aliens.    Although this novel concludes a phase of the atevi-human story, there are many questions left unanswered, so another trilogy should be forthcoming.  Right?  Ah, the sweet agony of waiting for the next installment!    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-11-28
1326555:US	49390985	RYKGHMXD7F0L3	0441009719	655760211	Earth Rise	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Invaded Again	Earthrise is second in a duology about the invasion of the alien Saurons.  In the previous book, Death Day, the aliens have destroyed major cities around the world, shot down aircraft, strafed vehicles and groups, and reduced the world population by 3 billion.  Now it is the humans turn to strike.    The Saurons are divided into three classes:  the black rulers, Zin, the brown warriors, Kan, and the white workers, Fon.  They have likewise divided the surviving natives in their control, with the blacks as overseers, the browns as artisans, and the whites as grunt labor.  Alexander Franklin, the former black governor of Washington state, has been selected by the Saurons as the President of the USA.  Although an arrogant and manipulative politician, Franklin has grown into the job and is now the de facto leader of the Human Resistance.    The Resistance has weathered a major crisis:  the White Rose, a racialist group, has attacked Franklin's headquarters and, although driven off, have killed Jina, Franklin's wife.  Worse, Jina was killed by the sister of Jack Manning, head of Franklin's security detail.    Meanwhile, the Ra 'Na, alien slaves of the Saurons, have created their own resistance group and even the Fons have started to rebel.    Now Franklin reaches out to the aliens and other human groups to form a common front.  Unfortunately, the Saurons have an informer in his camp and they assassinate one leader and take another into captivity.  Moreover, the local slaves are divided and 75% of them are taken from the main camp to reduce the Resistance's effectiveness.  And then the Saurons initiate an assassination attempt against Franklin.    This is not a very sophisticated novel, resembling Saturday matinee movie serials in both plot and characters.  The good guys are strong and silent, the bad guys are thoroughly despicable, and the thrills and spills are continuous.  Strangely enough, the most human villain is a Ra 'Na, Dro Tog.    Don't expect great literature, but Dietz always gives your money's worth.  Good fun.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-11-26
1327240:US	49390985	R3BABVZFF1BQ8E	0441009778	673832066	Guardian	Books	4	8	10	N	N	If At First You Don't Succeed	Guardian is a science ficion novel that reads like fantasy, resembling The Hemingway Hoax in many ways.  The main premise is similar to Attanasio's Radix series;  a probability multiverse where someone is trying to optimize the outcome.    The protaganist is an old woman, Rosa Coleman, who has left a fictionalized account of her life which her grandson has published as the novel Guardian.  Sound like a familiar gimmick?  Born in 1858 in Helen Mills, Georgia, Rosa leads an interesting but fairly dull life until 1894, when she decides to leave her husband for good and sufficient reasons.  She lets Daniel, her 14 year old son, select the destination, so they flee to Dodge City, Kansas,  with visions of gunfighters in Daniel's head.    After being found by the Pinkertons in Dodge City, Rosa and son leave for Denver enroute to the Yukon gold fields.  They meet Doc and Chuck Coleman on the way and accompany them to Alaska.  In Sitka, she has a profound experience that changes her life and the world around her.    The story includes a raven who shows up at critical times and other American Indian symbols and customs which strongly affect Rosa, yet the story is still not a fantasy.    Guardian moves a little slowly at times, yet with frequent and sudden instrusions of casual violence as would be expected of that time and place.  The abrupt transition to the transcendental portion of the story is probably deliberately so.  The next segment is filled with confusing images and ideas, leading literally to a new direction in Rosa's life.     This novel is not high adventure, but portrays a life similar to many others lived in the decades following the Civil War.  The metaphysics is interesting yet remains strangely insignificant;  Rosa is the center of interest in the story and the weirdness is only a passing oddity.  Recommended to those who like history, strong but likable characters, and philosophical speculation.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-11-26
1328355:US	49390985	RKQJ4YFWPSX2C	0671877658	27250944	Changespell	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Growing Up Is Hard To Do	Changespell (1997) is the second in a series about a horse, Dun Lady's Jess, who has been transformed into a human and can be either woman or mare.  Jess now wears spellstones in her hair, and mane, that can change her into either form.  She can trigger the spellstone to change her into a mare, but cannot change back to a woman by herself.    Jess is training horses and testing riders for Kymmet Stables when she receives an urgent message from Arlen.  He has found a man who may be a transformed horse.  Jess and Ander, a friend, ride to Anfeald to assist Arlen.  Upon arrival, Jess quickly determines that the man had actually been transformed from a mule.  No one knows who changed him, how he was changed, or why.  Although the wizards know that two people are performing major wizardry in the area, none recognize the magical signature.    Unknown to Jess, Ander is highly attracted to her and intends to compete with Carey for her attention.  While Jess remains totally oblivious of the situation, the resulting tension between the two men complicates the plot.     Soon Jaime arrives from Ohio to testify at a hearing to free Willand, an apprentice wizard who is presently being confined in a null magic zone due to her misdeeds during Jaime's initial visit to Camelon.  After Jaime testifies how Willand had gleefully tortured Arlen and herself, the Wizards Council denies her release, but she escapes shortly thereafter.  And then another changespell victim is found nearby, this time a pursan, a large feline, transformed into a woman.    Since the Anfeald couriers are overworked, Jess transforms to Lady and rides out with a message to the local peacekeepers, but is ambushed along the route and tranquilized with a narcotic dart.  When Carey learns that Lady is overdue, he rides out with Ander, discovers the ambush scene, and recovers several darts.  They bring the darts back to Arlen, who finds a tag spell placed therein which has already caught Carey and Ander.  While not bearing the signature of Willand, Arlen suspects that she designed the trap and immediately destroys the darts.    Lady wakes up within a stall in an unknown barn.  Other animals, including predators, are also confined in the barn.  Eventually the changespell wizards, lead by Willand, come to examine her.  They intend to use her transformation ability as a guide to improve their changespell.  The situation does not look good.    This novel provides an opportunity for Jess to further comprehend humans, particularly her beloved Carey, and for the humans to further understand her.  It also vividly underscores the unusual circumstances that allowed Jess to adapt after her transformation, which has not been successfully replicated.  This work most realistically portrays the various animals and, in some ways, attends more to the animals than to the humans.  Nevertheless, the good guys are never neglected and are well drawn, but the bad guys get very little time on stage.  Tough!    I highly recommend this novel to anyone who loves animals, mysteries, and magic.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-11-25
1329398:US	49390985	R1TWA1QDG4C2F5	0671876171	158002942	Dun Lady's Jess	Books	5	26	27	N	N	A Horse and Her Man	Dun Lady's Jess (1994) is the first novel by Durgin and is unusually well written for a first work.  It is also the first in a series about a horse who becomes a human.  Her owner is Arlen of Anfeald, a senior wizard of Camolen, but her master is Carey, head rider of the Anfeald couriers.      Arlen has discovered a spell for crossing over to other dimensions and needs help developing a checkspell to prevent unscrupulous exploitation of other continua.  He sends Carey to Sherra, a member of the Wizards Council, with a full report on the new spell.  Warning Carey that other wizards know of the new spell, Arlen provides a stone carrying the spell and orders Carey to use it if danger appears.    Carey and Lady are ambushed and Carey is shot with an arrow, pulling Lady hard to the right.  As they plunge over a cliff, Carey invokes the spellstone and they go elsewhere.    Lady, transformed to a human, lands in a meadow in Ohio with her tack lying atop and around her.  She is found by Eric and Dayna, who take her home with them.  Since Jess is new to the human business, she is a strange, possibly crazy, woman.  At first she seems to be mute -- after all, horses don't talk -- but soon learns how to make the funny sounds that she has heard all her life.  She calls Dayna and Eric by name, and tells them her own, and then goes on a orgy of word learning.  When Eric brings in the tack, Jess says the saddlebags belong to Carey.  When she identifies herself as a horse, also belonging to Carey whom she has lost and wants to find, they take her to Jaime at the Dancing Equine Dressage Center, where Jess meets Mark, Jaime's brother.    While Eric tries to find Carey by calling nearby hospitals, Jaime questions Jess and then puts her to work in the stables.  A stranger shows up looking for a dun mare with black points and identifies himself as Derrick, living at the LK hotel.  Jaime notices that the description would match Jess if she was a horse.  Moreover, Jess displays an unusualability in reading horse body language.  Jaime is beginning to suspect the unthinkable.    Jaime tells the others about Derrick at the LK hotel, where Dayna and Mark work.  Using her passkey, Dayna finds Carey, drugged and helpless, in Derrick's room as well as a bow and quiver of arrows.  She is almost caught by Derrick, but escapes and returns to The Dancing to tell of her discovery.  They return to the hotel while Mark is on duty and rescue Carey.  Then things start to get interesting.    Eventually, Jess, Dayna, Eric, Jaime and Carey cross over to Camolen. They are accidentally accompanied by Ernie, a gunman hired by Derrick, and land in the middle of a siege.    While the novel is fantasy, there are a few points that strain even that loose standard.  The spell itself provides the ability to speak English, yet the rapidity with which Jess learns to speak and read is truly fantastic.  However, Durgin provides an explanation at the very beginning:  the intercontinual transients are connected to their home dimension by a thread of magic that powers any spells invoked in the other continuum.  Apparently that also powers magical talents -- such as language learning -- possessed by the travelers.     This is truly a horse lover's fantasy.  While very ignorant of horse affairs, I feel that the horsey thinking underlying Jess's personality rings true with my experiences.  Durgin really knows her horses.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-11-24
1331300:US	49390985	R1KBVT4YWW73EE	0451458672	388434684	Drinking Midnight Wine	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Mythical England in the 21st Century	Drinking Midnight Wine is very similar to Shadows Fall in ambiance and tone, but otherwise differs greatly in characters and plot. It is almost traditional in approach, with Faery coexisting with the mundane world and with some persons in each who can move between the worlds.    Toby Dexter, a bookshop assistant, lives in Bradford-on-Avon and works in Bath. Over a period of time, he has become attracted to a woman who also rides the commuter train between the two towns. On one particularly wet evening, he is behind the woman as she gets off in Bradford and sees her make a doorway in a wall and walk through. He follows her and finds himself in bright sunlight.    Although very similar to his Bradford, the town is somehow different. The people are also familiar yet different. He is told that he is now in Mysterie rather that Veritie. He meets the mysterious woman, Gayle, and finds himself hopelessly in love. They discover a plot to destroy Mysterie and conquer Veritie and together they work against it.    The plot involves the Serpent in the Sun, the Serpent's Son Nicholas Hob, and Angel, who is an angel of some kind.  Arrayed against these plotters are Gayle, Toby, Gayle's sister Luna, Jimmy Thunder the godling, Leo Morn and his friend Brother Under the Hill, the Waking Beauty Carys Galloway, and the Mice.    In reading the prior reviews, I notice that the Americans seem to have read only the Deathstalker and Hawk & Fisher novels, although one mentioned Blue Moon Rising. Green has written at least 20 novels to my knowledge. Almost all of them have action plots and the majority are sword and sorcery works, but this is not the first novel largely given to character exposition and urban settings. His novel Shadow Falls reads like an Amber work, but with a different mythology.    Several reviewers compared this novel to Neverwhere. While agreeing with the similarity, one should consider that Gaiman was dealing with traditional fantasy elements in his novel. Others have walked through doors or mirrors into Wonderland.    This novel is a coming of belated age tale.  If ever a person is a case of delayed adolescence, it is Toby Dexter.  In Mysterie, he is forced to examine his comfortable life and reevaluate his priorities and, in so doing, he changes others as well.    This novel is vintage Green with a new twist and an excellent example of urban fantasy. Hopefully, Green will make this a series; Mysterie has sufficient unrealized possibilities for a sequel.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-11-22
1331375:US	49390985	R2WGB55JC5S186	0446677043	79269299	Sisters of the Raven	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Ancient Desert Magic	Sisters of the Raven could be considered a companion work to The Ladies of Mandrigyn and The Witches of Wenshar.  Each involve women learning to use magic, but this novel includes the men losing magic at the same time that the women are acquiring it.  There are no words for a women with magical talent or a female magic user.  Of the whole animal kingdom, the only females thought to have magic are the ravens;  hence, these magic using women are known as Ravens.    Most men don't even believe that women have gained such talents and many others are adamantly opposed to the whole idea.  Some men suspect that female magic is interferring with male magic.  Since the loss of male magic has prevented the Sun Mages from calling the spring rains, the Ravens are blamed for the drought conditions.  Moreover, the Mouth of Nebehkt says that the god will withhold the rains until these abominable women are curtailed.    The King, Oryn, is not alarmed by the occurence of the Ravens -- his beloved Summer Concubine is one -- and he sponsors the girl Raeshaldis as a Sun Mage novice.  The other novices, however, have a different opinion and raise the expected hazing to a furious pitch.  Even some of the masters are hesitant, but the Archmage Hathmar is desperate enough to try anything to restore magic.    While the loss of magic is a personal tragedy to the effected mages, such losses also disrupt society as a whole.  Vermin are not being repelled from food supplies, illnesses are not being healed, the teyn -- semisentient inhabitants of the land -- are not being contained, and desert raiders are not being detected.  The kingdom is falling apart.    Oryn is having an aquaduct constructed toward a reliable source of water 200 miles away.  It has only reached 12 miles and already the nobles and populace are complaining about the taxes.  Since the drought has precluded any sowing of seeds, many men are out of work, but don't want to work on the hoists bringing water from the nearby lake oron the aquaduct.  The town is also being stirred up by the followers of Nebehkt.  Riot and rebellion are rampant in the populace.    With all these troubles, the Sisters discover that someone or something is killing Ravens.  Raeshaldis is attacked within the Sun Mage citadel itself, but uses her talents to escape and defend.  Corn-Tassel Woman disappears from a locked and guarded room.  And even Summer Concubine feels as if she is being watched.    Throughout this novel, the nobles play the game of court politics, some mages pretend to retain their powers, and, except for a small shower,  the rains continue to be nonexistent.  In the meanwhile, the price of water is going up and the populace is growing more desperately dangerous.    Sisters of the Raven has a Farsi (Persian) flavor, with  the desert, djinni, harems, concubines, eunuchs, and women with fanciful names who are the property of their menfolk.  Some reviewers have cast apersions at this created milleau, but much of the background matches what we know of the later Persian empire.  Not to mention Iran today.  (Oh, you didn't know that Iran was the homeland of the ancient Farsi?  Iraq, too, was part of the Persian empire, with the capital at Bagdad.)     As usual, Hambly has written an excellent and entertaining work.  Of course, I would read her works if she only wrote toilet paper labels, but I am pleased that she has returned to worlds of her own devising.  Now, everybody go out and buy several copies so she can continue to create novels like this.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-11-22
1332716:US	49390985	RTCYFFKVD4DFB	0380978962	675078442	Paragon Lost: A Chronicle of the King's Blades	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Beau Geste with Substance	Paragon Lost (2002) is the fourth fantasy novel in the King's Blade series, following Sky of Swords.  This is the story of Sir Beaumont, a protege of Sir Roland and probably the best swordsman ever produced by Ironhall.  Moreover, Beaumont is a political genius, a Machiavelli, a Mycroft Holmes to Roland's Sherlock.    In this novel, Ned is born in a rich Alderman's household as the cook's [...].  While never acknowledged by his father, he lives in this household for almost twelve years.  Upon the master's death, however, he is shipped off to Ironhold.    When Ned arrives, Sir Roland has just become the acting head of Ironhall upon the death of the Grand Master.  Roland makes time to interview the boy and decides that he is too young.  He shows such promise, however, that Roland arranges for Ned to work at a nearby farm for a year.    At his delayed admission to Ironhall, Ned chooses the non-traditional name of Beaumont.  Although now the Brat, he wins admirers among the staff and students and is even allowed to dine with the Sopranos.  While he is smaller than average, he is strong and nimble and quickly becomes proficient with all types of swords.    Upon becoming prime, Beau is told that he, as well as Arkell and Oak, are to be bound to Lord Wassail.  A loyal supporter of the King during the Thencaster affair, Wassail had adamantly refused to bind Blades to himself, but has been overruled by the King and was convinced by Roland of the necessity.  He has been chosen to escort Princess Tasha, niece to the Czar of Skyrria, back to Cavil to become King Athelgar's bride.  Thus, the Blades are an honor -- and actual -- guard for the future queen.    Wassail, Beau, Arkell, Oak and their company take ship to Isoland.  In Lavalle, Beau falls in love with Isabelle, an Isolandian working in the Chivan Ambassador's household.  From there the party travels overland to Skyrria.  Beau completes his mission and returns with Princess Tasha, but has to leave other members of the mission behind.  Worse, his ward has died on the return journey, with homicidal affects among the Blades.  Upon their return to Lavalle, Beau marries Isabelle and takes her back to Grandon with him.  After reporting to the King, Beau is released from his bond, becomes Ned Cookson once again, and lives as a casual laborer in Grandon.    All this is preliminary to the loss of the paragon, which takes Ned back to Skyrria to conclude the affair.    The author provides a vivid portrait of Medieval Russian character and environment.  Igor is loosely based on Ivan the Terrible, but even more evil.  Fedor, his son, is only casually evil through selfishness.  Sophie, Igor's wife, is delightful and her younger sister, Tasha, is naive but good-natured.  Dimitri, the older brother of Sophie and Tasha, is loyal and protective, but also naive.    This story has a larger scope than the previous novels.  It provides a deeper look at the geography and politics of the Euranian continent and some more about Athelgar's family.    Duncan has surpassed himself with this novel.  It has all the hallmarks that you expect him -- likeable but eccentric characters, political chicanery, swordfights, mysterious occurrences -- as well as probably the most notable protagonist of his career, a Beau Geste of substance.  With his release from the King's service, Ned is truly a paragon lost.    Don't miss this one!       -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-11-21
1332865:US	49390985	R28SUILD66RH7F	0312875266	895943376	The American Zone	Books	3	7	9	N	N	This is not The Probability Broach	The Probability Broach (1980) tells the story of Win Bear, a detective from Denver, who falls through a hole between universes, meets another version of himself and other interesting people, and saves the day for the good guys.  It is very reminiscent of Beyond This Horizon, and other Heinlein stories, in both tone and politics, and the plot came right out of H. Beam Piper.  Naturally I loved it and immediately bought every other Smith novel that I could find.    The American Zone (2001) continues this story with Win settled in the house and business of his intercontinual doppleganger.  He has married Clarissa MacDougall Olson, a woman straight out of the Lensman series and the sweetheart every red-blooded American male yearns to marry, and his only problem seems to be keeping his weight down.    The novel starts with a bang, literally, as Greater LaPorte celebrates Independence Day.  Win is watching the fireworks when a couple of potential clients show up to engage his services.  Someone is smuggling videos across the universes that star their dopplegangers or have other actors in their roles.  Since they are the local equivalents of Clark Gable and Carole Lombard, this intercontinua competition is cutting into their royalties.    As Gable and Lombard are leaving, the sound and pressure wave of a huge explosion pass through.  Someone has blown up the Old Endicott Building.  And this is just the first in a series of manmade diasters.  Who is using terrorist tactics against the North American Confederacy?    At this point the explanations begin.  Unfortunately, these backgrounders mostly involve talking heads and some extravagant claims are made for the libertarian philosophy.  This pontification got in the way of the story over and over again.  While enjoying political discussions and intrigued with the possibilities of libertarianism, I would rather be shown the ideas than be told.      Heinlein did a much better job of weaving the ideology into the action.  Even in Starship Troopers, which I consider his most political novel, he presented the philosophy as part of the daily life of the protaganist.  Smith tries this approach, but the philosophy overwhelms the plot.    The plot, however, is very weak.  Win and his friends reckon that the only people who would gain from these terrorist acts are the political fringe groups avocating more government and successively visit the authoritarians (and their monarchist offshoots), the majoritarians, and the fascists.  Meanwhile, Win keeps following leads to the video smugglers.  And somebody keeps trying to kill him.    After bumbling around, Win falls into the answers to both his case and the terrorist problems.  We are treated to a few interesting treatises on guns, knives and technology throughout the story and meet a number of interesting and disgusting characters along the way.  Nevertheless, the ending is just not as satisfying as I would expect.    The book title refers to the section of town settled by intercontinua immigrants who have not yet adapted to their new universe.  The Hanging Judge is a restaurant in the middle of the American Zone where most of the political discussions and confrontations occur.  The most effective presentations of the libertarian ideology in this book are shown by contrasting the actions and words of different immigrants.  Some just want their governmental mommies and others want to be free of government controls.    Other reviewers keep referring to 9/11 as if such terrorist actions invalidate libertarian ideas.  Smith's North American Confederacy is a form of limited anarchy and anarchy does not invite terrorist acts;  the power is too distributed.  It is vulnerable, however, to those who want to establish a government to exploit the people.  Cecil Rhodes, Lenin and Hitler come to mind.    If you did not already know, this novel will show you why Smith is a favorite of the libertarian set.  Unfortunately, the political diatribes get in the way ofthe story.  While it may have been long awaited, this sequel of The Probability Broach is not as entertaining as the original.    Libertarians will buy this book to wallow in their philosophy.  Readers of other political persuasions are more likely to bypass it.  Overall, I think Smith has a bad case of preaching to the choir;  he would be more successful as a political propagandist -- as well as a novelist -- if he provided more entertainment and less philosophy.    I am quite disappointed.  However, the inside jokes -- e.g., Clarissa, Will Sanders -- and public jokes -- e.g., Buckley and Bennett Williams -- are funny.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-11-20
1333488:US	49390985	R3Q3KRQG9AOPDW	0380813300	54907768	Trapped (League of Peoples, Bk. 6)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Fishy Quest	Trapped (2002) is another SF novel set in the League of People universe.  Although an Explorer is a minor character, this novel is unrelated to the Explorer stories.    This story takes place on an Earth that has been embargoed by the League and seeded with nanotech to emulate magic and psionics.  Some people are endowed with telepathy, telekinesis, precognosis, envoking fire, and other powers, but most only have a single talent.  The most powerful of these talented people are the Spark Lords.    The novel tells of a quest to find the murderer of Rosalind, a student at Feliss Academy.  Her killer is a Lucifer, a unit of a hive mind species, who can shapechange and has impersonated Rosalind so as to elope with her lover, Sebastian Shores, who is himself a multi-talented sorcerer.      Philemon Abu Dhubhai and his friends are teachers at FA, a somewhat elite finishing school for those with a touch of sorcerous talent, and all are feeling a bit underachieved.  The quest gives them a reason to go out and fulfill themselves.  Along the way they are joined by Phil's lover and friend, Gretchen Kinnderboom, who fancies herself as a sorceress.    The FA group aren't the only people interested in the murder;  Dreamsinger, a Sorcery-Lord of Spark, is also investigating a strange occurence and joins the group for a while.  Elizabeth Tzekich, head of the Ring of Knives criminal gang and mother of the murdered girl, is discovered to be in the vicinity and, upon being notified of the death, is most eager to follow the murderer.    Phil and his friends discover that the Lucifer has already killed another Spark Lord and apparently has a different nature than other Lucifers.  As they follow Dreamsinger and the Tzekich party, they discover death, deception and, possibly, deliverance.    This story takes some suspension of disbelief, since it is basically a fantasy with a scientific premise.  Like other crossover stories, it has to do some fancy smoke blowing to establish the groundrules, but it succeeds fairly well in bypassing the critical faculties and engaging the sense of wonder.    Like his previous works, the novel displays Gardner's innovation and characterization within a fairly plebian plot.  It isn't War and Peace, but it is interesting.  I enjoyed it and the other Gardner novels.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-11-20
1335997:US	49390985	RO546WT3VVSVV	0743435443	168410535	Changespell Legacy (Baen Fantasy)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	An Uncommon Wisdom	Changespell Legacy (2002) is the third in a series about a horse, Dun Lady's Jess, who has been transformed into a human and now has the ability to be either women or mare.  Along the way she has made friends with Jaime, Mark, Dayna, and Arlen and has become the lover of Carey, her former owner.    The present story starts with Arlen of Anfeald away from home while the Wizards Council of Camolen investigates a strange new phenomenon near Secondary Siccawei.  Something happens to cause wild magic to flare up and the investigating wizards are all killed.  Arlen is presumed to be dead and the only known survivor is a palomino stallion.    The Secondary Council moves its operation to Secondary Siccawei to be near the phenomenon and then shuts down the transfer booths.  The Mage Dispatch service begins to bog down under the load and running the Anfeald courier service is keeping Carey and Jess very busy.      Jaime shows up for a scheduled visit and discovers Arlen is not there.  Although grieving for Arlen, she assumes some of the burden of running the courier service.  Jess and Suliya, a new courier rider, go to Secondary Siccawei in response to a message from Dayna.  When she tells them that the council have rejected her recommendations and are essentially wasting time, the three women take Rumble, the palomino stallion, and return to Anfeald.    Dispatch reports begin to indicate that the strange phenomenon has started to grow and has appear elsewhere.  Without any help form the council and unable to gain reliable information in any other way, Carey decides to interrogate the palomino by turning the horse into a man.  Jess, remembering her own transformation, tries to talk Carey out of this idea, but hesitantly agrees when all other sources have failed.    Jess, Carey, Dayna, Suliyu, and Rumble tranfer back to Earth and, in the process, Rumble is transformed into a man.  They gather at the Dancing Equine farm -- Jaime's home -- with Mark and try to plumb Rumble's memories.    Back on Camelon, Arlen has been delayed in reaching the council and perceives their death as it occurs.  Realizing that he is now the only senior wizard remaining, he is trying to return to Anfeald, but has to travel slowly by coach and horse now that the transfer booths are shut down.  He tries to performs as little magic as possible to prevent other sensitives from recognizing his signature while he lies low and tries to find out what is going on.  In his travel, he encounters other instances of the strange phenomenon and learns that it is excited and grows whenever magic is used nearby.  Then he is recognized and attacked, but overcomes his attacker.  Now knowing that he is being hunted, Arlen avoids the main roads and public means of travel, but still heads toward Anfeald.      Jaime also begins to recognize a pattern.  She is visited by two strangers who claim to come from Chesba to learn the truth about recent events, but later inquiries disprove these claims.  Then the Secondary Council sends an investigator to determine who has used forbidden spells in the vicinity of Anfeald.  Jaime knows that one of the usages would have been Jess and her party, but the other may have been the imposters.   Are they following Jess and company with intent to cause harm?  Things get rather tense thereafter.      Durgin has wrought a complex and suspenseful plot as a background to the continuing humanization of Jess.  While she has not been an innocent regarding humanity -- after all, horses soon learn that there are good humans and bad humans -- Jess has been naive about the perversity of human nature.  Now she is confronted by Carey's inability -- or unwillingness -- to generalize from Jess to all other horses.    After I read the first two novels in this series, I brought the books to the attention of my youngest daughter.  She is a horse person, currently attending a course to prepare her as a horse trainer, and she does not like to read anything that is not required by her teachers.  However, she became intrigued by my synopsis of these novel and has read and enjoyed both prequels.  Now she is eagerly waiting for me to pass this book on to her.  Overall, I think she is impressed by Durgin's grasp of equine matters and ways.    If you like animals, try Doranna Durgin's novels.  She has a way with words as well as a good knowledge of animals and their owners.  In this novel, she beautifully portrays a personality that is a blend of horse and human, with an uncommon wisdom from both sides.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-11-18
1337867:US	49390985	R2ABNYKQVOFZEZ	0446609838	380697224	Stealing the Elf-King's Roses	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A Multiverse Thriller, With Roses	Stealing the Elf-King's Roses (2002) is a standalone Fantasy novel.  It's good to have Duane writing heroic fantasy again.  While I enjoyed her science fiction, media novels, and Young Wizards series, I think she only realizes her full potential in a universe with wider constraints of her own devising.    This novel is another classification headache, much like \\"The Three World Trilogy\\" by Lawrence Watt-Evans.  Multiple universes exhibit different physical and moral laws.  Some of these laws allow powers that we would classify as magic.  And one of the universes is Alfheim, the home of the Elves.    It seems that intercontinual trade exists between six universes within the sheaf and, according to the papers, a seventh has just been discovered.  A crucial element in the trade is Fairy Gold, which has properties that reduce the power requirement for intercontinual gates.  Alfheim is the only source for this metal and strictly controls the supply.    The point of view follows Lee Enfield, a mantic in forensic lanthanomancy, as she and her partner Gelert, a madra or fayhound, investigate the death of an Elf at Eighteenth and Melrose in Los Angeles.  Obviously Lee's LA isn't the La-La Land that we know.  And the story becomes even stranger as it progresses.    Lee and Gelert discover with their lanthanomantic powers -- her Sight and his Scent -- that the victim had been shot by a human, but that a second Elf had observed the murder, with some satisfaction, and had then just faded away.  In addition, the shooter himself left a fading pyschospoor that puzzles Gelert.    The shooter is quickly caught on an anonymous tip and the authorities are trying to restrict the case to just the proximate killer.  Lee and Gelert, however, are fighting to widen the case and soon turn up information to support their lanthanomantic evidence.    It soon becomes obvious that Elves are being murdered in the universes outside Alfheim and other Elves seem to be contracting or performing the murders.  Conspiracy theories bloom like desert flowers.  On the basis of these findings, the other five trading partners force Alfheim to accept a joint investigating committee and Lee and Gelert are pushed onto the committee.    Then events, and landscapes, really turn strange.  Duane takes us into Fairyland in more than one way.  Pay attention to the fairy tales researched by our heroes;  they are your only hints.    Welcome back, Diane, and when are you going to tie up all the loose strings?  The madrin are only one of several mysteries left unexplained.  That seventh universe is especially intriguing.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-11-16
1339906:US	49390985	R29RW0Z075XUX6	074343112X	20110081	Gateways Book Seven  What Lay Beyond (Star Trek)	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	Cute But No Cigar	What Lay Beyond (2001) is the seventh work in the Gateways subseries of the Star Trek series.  The publisher of Star Trek books has, once again, come up with a way to entice readers into buying another book. This book is a collection of endings to the first six books in the mini-series! Cute, but no cigar.    Well, they conned me into buying the book. The other Gateways books were well-enough written and I did want to read the endings, but I got the book from the library first and then decided to invest the extra money. Notice that this book came out in hardback whereas the others were published as paperbacks. Of course, the mass market paperback version was finally issued, but impatient souls such a myself just wouldn't wait.    Remember when they published Star Trek Year One as a trailer to other Star Trek novels? And then finally brought it out as a separate novel.  The current ploy of delaying the endings had the same feel of a serial novel, but compounded by waiting for SIX finales.    Buy the paperback. Don't be like me and fork out the money for the hardback. Unless, of course, you really think it is worth the money.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-11-14
1340981:US	49390985	RRXPLL95CMXH9	1930846037	645456879	Dogged Persistence	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Dark and Luminous	Dogged Persistence (2001) is a collection of stories with mostly disutopian themes. All are well-written, but the accumulative effort is somewhat depressing. No wonder Anderson was selected to write X-Files novels.    Like all good SF authors, Anderson sees more than the obvious in new technology and scientific speculation. While many of the basic themes in these stories have been used by other authors, Anderson adds new directions and possibilities.    For example, the first story, \\"Fondest Memories\\", employs the themes of cloning and induced memories to bring us a quietly, subtly horrible tale. And the title story is a conspiracy tale that was later expanded to the X-Files novel \\"Antibodies\\", yet it is also a very private story of love and betrayal. The Dune story portrays the trapping of Atreides soldiers in the shield wall caves by Harkonnen troops, yet is really a story of homesickness and a miracle.    As Kristine Kathryn Rusch implies in the Introduction, the best story in Anderson's career may well be \\"The Ghost of Christmas Always\\".  At least Dean Smith thought so.  While next to last in the book, this fantasy of Charles Dickens and the ghost of his sister-in-law has a luminous presence that lingers.  Like \\"A Christmas Carol\\", this story may well become a classic. Sometimes an author gets it exactly right.    Kevin J. Anderson can write a great short story. Don't just take my word for it;  read these stories and see for yourself.  By the way, his novels are pretty good too.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-11-14
1342222:US	49390985	R7POPOY92UU7E	031287443X	101306548	Falling Stars (Firestar Saga)	Books	5	9	13	N	Y	The Woman Who Sold the Moon	Firestar (1996) is the first novel in the Firestar Saga series. Mariesa Gorley van Huyten is the teenage heiress of an old and very rich family. She is eager to take over the management of the family business from her grandfather and has decided to obtain a degree at Chicago to learn the basics of administration and management. During the summer before leaving for college, however, she has a vivid vision of a large meteor strike and resulting destruction which haunts her for the rest of her life.     In the following years, Mariesa concludes that the only protection against human extinction from meteor strikes is an active and prosperous space industry throughout the solar system, providing both defense capabilities and dispersal of the population in self-sufficient habitats. Since very few others are concerned with the meteor risk, she determines to promote such industry by means of Van Huyten Industries.    Christian van Huyten III had begun naming his companies after mythological characters in 1873, so the space initiative adopted by Mariesa shortly after she takes over is named the Prometheus Project. She recruits several of the VHI executives into the Prometheus Steering Committee. Development of a single-stage to orbit prototype for the project is performed by Daedalus Corporation, a Brazilian subsidiary, with materiel and expertise provided by other VHI companies. Daedalus hires Ned DuBois and Forrest Calhoun as test pilots for the new \\"Plank\\" SSTOs.    Mariesa also sees better education as a necessity to support Prometheus, so she acquires Mentor Academies, a private education concern, and expands it to manage public schools, under contract with the states and local school districts. One of the first managed public school districts is North Orange, New Jersey, near her home. Barry Fast, a teacher within the North Orange district, becomes a Mentor Institute Fellow and confidante of Mariesa.     As Mariesa begins to build an autonomous space industry within VHI, she finds both supporters and opponents within VHI, in the other aerospace companies and in government. She also finds herself developing a special relationship with a group of students within the North Orange district.    This novel spends a great deal of time attacking the current education establishment. It doesn't take any position on the dogmatic issues, but rather supports an eclectic approach that enables teachers to control their own presentations and relegates much of the administration to the managerial staff. Success is measured by the degree to which the student body achieves stated objectives. As someone who has been exposed to the education curriculum, I tend to agree the author in that the style of teaching must vary according to the student, but current public education thinking seems to consider such an approach to be too expensive. However, my reading in psychology suggests that the evidence tends to support the author's position: lockstep teaching is too expensive as well as also ineffectual.    This novel lays the foundation for a provocative series. It has been much compared to Heinlein's works -- i.e., The Man Who Sold the Moon -- but it is much longer and thus more detailed. Moreover, it has more room for character development and uses it aggressively.    Highly recommended for Flynn and Heinlein fans and for anyone else who enjoys hard science fiction with believable characters and excellent plot development.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-11-13
1346053:US	49390985	R36UZCW6LI5OO5	0345448928	785575065	The Fifth Sorceress (Chronicles of Blood and Stone, Book 1)	Books	3	5	9	N	N	A Real Pot-boiler	The Fifth Sorceress (2002) is an ambitious work and I thought it was fairly well done. Reading it was mostly enjoyable, but it has a few flaws.    First, the book needed a better copy editor. There were the usual typos such as \\"were\\" in place of \\"where\\". Spellcheckers are less than worthless to catch such errors since they give one a false sense of confidence! Moreover, a better copy editor may have caught the discrepancy when Shannon the gnome was in front of Tristam as they rode into Shadowood, but is behind Tristam on the next page.    Second, the characters seemed too contrived and stilted. I felt like the book was rigidly controlled throughout rather than letting the characters run with it. I understand the rationale for each character's behavior, but they all were so stereotypical. Either too good or too bad to be true. In many respects, the book reminded me of a morality play or Pilgrim's Progess.    In particular, Tristam was much too impulsive. While this was intentional, he didn't have the other characteristics that you would expect. He was self-centered, but not selfish. He took advice and often deferred to the expertise of others. While the author claimed that his \\"pure\\" blood, in effect, took control, Tristam showed remarkable patience and self-control in several instances. His knive throwing ability, for example, was hard-earned and took a long time to acquire. The way he treated his horse also showed patience and self-control.    Thirdly, the plot seemed to not overlook any mechanism or twist to increase suspense. If you are old enough to remember such, it felt like a Saturday morning movie serial -- The Perils of Pauline maybe?    This is an extraordinarily good first novel. Hopefully, the sequel will be even better.    Recommended to anyone who enjoys fast action in a fantasy setting.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-11-09
1346261:US	49390985	R35D13K3NYXQMU	0152025510	766839073	The Wizard's Dilemma: The Fifth Book in the Young Wizards Series	Books	5	3	3	N	N	For Love of Mother	The Wizard's Dilemna (2001) is the fifth fantasy novel in the Young Wizards series, following A Wizard Abroad.  The story of Nita and Kit has finally reached adolescence...with a bang.  They quarrel and then both are busy when the other calls.  Nita's mother is diagnosed with a malignant brain tumor.  And Kit's dog Ponch seems to be creating universes!    This story reminds me of Heinlein's Podkayne of Mars, but with 21st century troubles.  Also, Duane's characters are more fully developed -- more human -- than even Podkayne.  Even the cats are human in a feline way.  But that dog, Ponch, is thoroughly canine!    All the main characters have to be modeled on real persons, probably as composites.  Their behavior is just right for the circumstances.  You have to like both sets of parents and the younger siblings are okay even if a little snotty.  In fact, Dairine is becoming quite likeable whenever she forgets to be obnoxious.    While this story deals with adult themes of responsibilities, limitations, and tolerance, it does have some action and gives us a further glimpse of the training and function of wizards.    I would assume that the next volume in this series continues the developing maturity of the main protaganists.  I am looking forward to it.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-11-09
1346777:US	49390985	R17VOUA1HQUVKN	0688066046	811026525	The Princess and the Goblin	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A Fantasy Classic	This story is a classic of its kind and was influential in the ongoing development of contemporary fantasy.  It combined several pre-existing story elements into a tale with adventure, monsters, morals, and a touch of faery.  It is probably no accident that this story is so similiar in tone to Tolkien's fantasies.<br /><br />While I am considerably older than the targeted age group, I found the story to be exciting with a touch of mysticism and mystery.  And, yes, it does have a stong moral ending.<br /><br />The princess was thoroughly in character. While overly mature for her age, she exemplifies the British ideal of nobility.  And Curdie represented the best of the British working class.  As the saying goes, they continually kept their heads while everyone else around them were losing theirs.  Although such virtues have been downplayed and vilified in recent times, they are still strong survival skills.<br /><br />MacDonald maintains a sense of suspense and mystery throughout the story, with a good mix of action and reflection.  While the authorial comments might seem strange, they do ring true as part of a verbal presentation.  Children will ask questions and will insist on clearing up the odd puzzlement.<br /><br />I came upon this story by accident, but I enjoyed it enough to pass it on.<br /><br />-Arthur W. Jordin	2002-11-09
1348062:US	49390985	R1FU3837HOW9O2	0451459016	536567970	The Devil and Deep Space (Roc Science Fiction)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Redemption of Andrej Andreievitch	The Devil and Deep Space (2002) is a story of moral and political conflict in a very exotic culture.  The First Judge is dead and Chilleau Judiciary prepares itself for the Selection of his successor. Koscuisko finally gets to visit his family and to meet his son Anton for the first time.  All is not well, however, back on the Ragnorok and Mergau Noycannir is a lurking presence.    The fifth in the Judiciary series, this novel is itself an engrossing work that riveted my attention throughout and left me wanting more.  It expands the richness and complexity of the Judiciary society through this glimpse of the Dolgorukij Combine, reminding me in various ways of the works of Donald Kingsbury and Ursula LeGuin.    Although still centered on Andrej Kowcuisko, the story continues to extend to other viewpoints and situations. Remember when Dune was the just the story of Paul Atreides, but then bloomed into an interstellar scope? Matthews could be following in Herbert's footsteps.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-11-07
1348151:US	49390985	RUJ2RJI8JLC6Q	0060013117	591200758	Night Watch: A Novel of Discworld	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Discworld Rides Again	Night Watch (2002) is the twenty-ninth novel in the Discworld series, following The Amazing Maurice and His Educated Rodents.  In many ways, this work is a prequel to the other night watch novels.  It has many familiar characters as well as some of their 30 years ago selves, including Fred Colon, Nobby Nobbs, Reg Barclay, Havelock Vetinari, and even a younger Sam Vimes.  There are also numerous new characters of interest.  And then there are those madcap Monks of History.    Sam Vines, now Duke and Commander of the night watch, is accidentally conveyed into the past while chasing a cold-blooded cop killer.  Vimes is injured and both he and the killer are snatched up by a time storm and land in the Shades of 30 years past.  Vimes has been knocked out by the time travel experience and is robbed while unconscious.  He is found by one of Anhk-Morpork's street seamstresses and taken to a pox doctor for treatment.  Upon awakening, Vimes hides his own name, taking the identity of John Keel.  Then he tries to find the watch house and his own home with confusing results.    After floundering around, he realizes his situation and tries to contact the wizards at Unseen University in order to be returned home, but is arrested by the night watch for disturbing the peace.  Later, he discovers that Keel is a former watchman from Pseudopolis who was planning on becoming an Ankh-Morpork night watchman, but who was killed immediately upon arrival.  Vimes convinces the captain that he is the real John Keel and is hired on as Sergeant-at-arms, thereby becoming the second-in-command of the night watch.    As usual, Pratchett takes a serious plot, adds zany twists and nontraditional characters, and then mixes in philosophic observations on thinly disguised modern foibles.  At one point, I laughed so hard that I couldn't read and, for several minutes, I couldn't even look at the page without re-triggering the laughter.  Luckily, I was reading in bed rather than in a chair.    Selection ofthe best Discworld novel would be very difficult;  Night Watch is just as good as the previous books, but is it better?  Since I have enjoyed each one in the series after multiple readings, maybe whichever you are currently reading is the best at that time.    If you are a Discworld fan, you will enjoy this book.  And if you are not a Discworld fan, what is keeping you; go out and buy The Color of Magic and start the experience.  Let the laughter begin.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-11-07
1349048:US	49390985	R18UBKV59VXJJX	0451207173	504828940	Ruled Britannia	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Play's the Thing	Ruled Britannia (2002) is a standalone Alternative History novel.  In this story, the English failed to turn back the Spanish Armada in 1588 and consequently became a satellite nation to the Spanish empire. The story is centered on an obscure playwright named William Shakespeare. Already you know Turtledove is going to have fun. But wait, a secondary protagonist is Lope de Vega, the greatest Spanish playwright of that time. And maybe the greatest Spanish philanderer as well.    Turtledove gets to write portions of two Shakespearean plays and various poetry. That's got to be hard work, right? And if you think his intentions are serious, just remember that the play's the thing.    This story has all the minor historical details that you expect from him and probably taught me more about Shakespeare than any English teacher. I wish he would write history books for high school and college classrooms. It's got to be easier than making up an alternate timeline and it would still be interesting. After all, it would be by Harry Turtledove!    Ain't it a shame how much fun Turtledove had with this novel. If I hadn't had almost as much fun, I would wonder why they pay the man for writing; obviously it isn't a real chore for him.  However, if you really want to keep Turtledove writing novels like this, go out and buy two, one for you and one for a friend. You won't regret it.    This is a fun book, but historically thought provoking. Read it or you will be sorry later!    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-11-07
1387210:US	49390985	R320JVMSU167DT	0441009743	474224829	Coyote: A Novel of Interstellar Exploration	Books	4	32	37	N	N	A Heinlein Tribute	Coyote (2002) is the first novel in this series.  Except for a minor quibble or two, I found this story a pleasure to read.      Allen Steele has previously used themes similar to the near space frontier works of Arthur C. Clarke. Coyote, however, echoes several themes in Robert A. Heinlein's works, including the Second American Revolution and the theft of a starship by political refugees.    The title says Coyote is a novel of interstellar exploration, but it is really a story of a great trek across 46 light years to settle a planet -- OK, a satellite -- in another solar system. Much of the novel concerns the trials and tribulations of two adolescents: Wendy and Carlos. In this sense, Coyote is a coming of age story much like Heinlein's juveniles.    The story starts with the theft of the United Republic Service Ship Alabama by some of its crew and a group of \\"dissident intellectuals\\" fired from the Federation Space Agency. Since the ship can cruise at only .2c -- 2/10ths of light speed -- the trip will take 230 years earth time.    After the escape, one crew member -- Comtech Leslie Gillis -- is awakened from biostasis and is not allowed by the ship's AI to return to this preserving state. Gillis spends the next 32 years as the only awakened person on the Alabama. Sometimes sane and other times mad, Gillis leaves behind some mural paintings, an epic novel and a mysterious note.    Upon reaching Coyote, the crew and passengers are awakened from biostasis, encounter the mural and novel (and note), and are much puzzled.    Coyote is habitable, of course, yet greatly different from Earth. The colonist find much strangeness and danger, but are able to adapt.    While the science and technology is very much 21st century, the strongest aspect of this novel is character development. Even his villains are believable. Steele deals realistically with teenage sex and pregnancy among his characters, something that Heinlein was not allowed to do until very late in his career.The novel ends with a number of loose strings, so I hope that a sequel is forthcoming.    -Arthur W. Jordin	2002-10-05
