198067:US	49693975	R23QOZNQKD66T6	1420851438	477600171	The Spirit of the Turquoise Necklace: The Schmooney Trilogies	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Winner of WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Summer finally comes, allowing Austin Cook to return to the North Georgia Mountains and resume his adventures with the Schmooney named Sarah, a supposedly mythological animal that Austin has found to be very real. Very few people know of its existence. Austin not only knows about the Schmooney, however, he can communicate with it. In the first book of the trilogy, he discovered that Sarah was more than just an ordinary skunk when he learned to communicate with her. Little did he suspect that his ability would one day save his life. <br /> <br />Austin plans to spend the summer at his Uncle Steve's, accompanied by his sister Katie for part of that time. He did not expect to have become a legend in his own right. But when he expresses his disapproval of a proposed land development project on the top of a nearby mountain, his opinions have consequences. Austin compares the proposed fifteen-story condominium to a woman with a flat top. The media and concerned citizens love the analogy, immediately adopting the image to launch their campaign to stop the project. But the owner of the land feels otherwise. The result is a dangerous adventure that will delight all fans of the fantastic Schmooney. <br /> <br /> Kids of all ages will love the continuing adventure of Austin and the Schmooney in this sequel, THE SPIRIT OF THE TURQUOISE NECKLACE. Indeed, Author Bob Shumaker creates a literary journey filled with unpredictable events, a fast-moving plot, and a fascinating visit to the North Georgia Mountains.  Fans of the fantastical Schmooney will certainly delight in its return as they learn more about its abilities and gifts. THE SPIRIT OF THE TURQUOISE NECKLACE earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-06-20
283986:US	49693975	RV95L171OS2CK	0373791739	196428300	My Favorite Mistake	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A fun read!	A tax audit brings Denise Cooke and her ex-husband Redford back together. Three years were not enough to make her forget his logic defying effect, and she fears that seeing him again will once again awaken her best-forgotten wild side. Certainly their brief time together in Los Vegas was proof enough that she was incapable of maintaining her ordinary logic where Redford Demoss is concerned.  While their marriage lasted long enough to file taxes together, their subsequent annulment prevented any further contact until now. <br /> <br />Denise has never told current boyfriend about her first husband. While their relationship lacks the vivid spark that characterized her relationship with Redmond, it is stable, comfortable and predictable. After two years of mild courtship, she accepts his proposal just before she must see Redford again. And while the conclusion of this story might seem rather inevitable given the genre, the humor, levity and delight of the journey makes MY FAVORITE MISTAKE a delightful read. <br /> <br />Author Stephanie Bond pens a vividly refreshing romance in MY FAVORITE MISTAKE. Perhaps her own past corporate world lends the fabulously entertaining heroine her convincing charm. While Ms Bond's background is computing and Denise Cooke's is financials, the commonality of the carefully controlled office experience lends the novel a crisp reality while sensual temptation gives Denise an even more convincing edge. From the running of the brides and Denise's ongoing eBay bid to get her dress back, to the sensual temptation of the hunky former marine, Ms Bond's deft, first person narrative departs from Harlequin's usual narrative style. Indeed, MY FAVORITE MISTAKE certainly illustrates the author's gift for weaving original, brilliant romance that readers find impossible to put down. MY FAVORITE MISTAKE comes very highly recommended.  <br />	2005-04-09
293535:US	49693975	R2U3YKJQ2RHIKX	0060938455	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Very Highly Recommended	When a friend called to recommend that I read FAST FOOD NATION, she warned that I would find it virtually impossible to work in the industry again. She was right. Author Eric Schlosser presents an in-depth account of the companies and people who make double cheeseburgers possible. However, readers beware. After reading FAST FOOD NATION, you will never again be able to pull through a drive through with casual oblivion to what you eat or who servers you.  <br /> <br />While Schlosser presents an excellent account of the stresses of working in fast food from the slaughter houses to the back line assembly, the one thing he fails to emphasize is the stresses on the managers of fast food. In Hardee's, for example, restaurant managers only get their salary if they work fifty hour weeks. Since managers are required to wear headsets while on duty, that means fifty hours of the drive through dinging in one's ears, even while serving customers at the front counter. Since fast food also makes up its labor out of management, that also means that the restaurant manager is either bagging food or working the drive through in addition to the rest of her responsibilities. Indeed, one manager and one cook (a total of only two employees) can run the entire restaurant for ten hours a day. Nevertheless, Schlosser does mention a pizza manager who makes $22,000 a year for a fifty-hour week. That's about the average pay scale, including bonuses, for restaurant managers (not general managers). <br /> <br />Perhaps the most traumatic accounts of the fast food industry do not lie, however, in the endless drudgery of drive through, but in the slaughterhouses across the Midwest. As independent ranching practices give way to major corporations, the displaced lives seldom find voice. Schlosser does an excellent job of combining the facts with the faces that makes this tragedy real. From men who have given their lives or their health out of company loyalty or the need to feed their families, to thewomen who have sharpen their carving knives while preparing the family dinner, each account springs vividly from the pages.  <br /> <br />FAST FOOD NATION is a must read for everyone. With the mobile lifestyle most of us have adapted, eliminating fast food from one's diet would be virtually impossible. However, if consumers are going to continue to eat those delicious cheeseburgers and calorie defying meals, then they should be aware of what they consume and at what cost. Knowledge is power, and the necessary changes that must come to this industry will only occur if we educate ourselves and make the appropriate demands for ourselves as consumers. Extremely well written, well presented, and impossible to put down, FAST FOOD NATION comes very highly recommended. <br />	2005-04-01
310601:US	49693975	R36DDS4XXA0CJT	0553584421	258842860	Every Whispered Word	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A fabulously entertaining Victorian	In 1885, Lady Camelia Marshall returns to London following her father's death to secure investments that will allow her to continue her father's work. An archeologist in South Africa, Camelia believes that she is poised the brink of a major discovery. Others, however, doubt the value of her quest, and encourage her to give up her career to return to a more ordinary existence. Instead, Camelia seeks out an inventor whom she has thoroughly researched, believing he can create a steam engine capable of ridding her archeological site of water so she might continue her dig. <br /> <br />Inventor Simon Kent has little use for London society. His family periodically patents his inventions, but he is much more interested in discovering new things and allowing others to elaborate on the possibilities that might better society.  Hard at work on a washing machine, he does not notice his interloper until she has been drenched with water. While he might be flattered by her interest in his work, Simon does not become willing to aid Camelia's quest until a mysterious fire guts his home. Then accompanied by a variety of guests, including Camelia's pet snake, bird and monkey, Simon embarks upon a life altering journey to South Africa. <br /> <br />Author Karyn Monk presents a light and amusing read in EVERY WHISPERED WORD. Days after finishing the novel, I could not help recalling especially vividly realized and humorous tidbits, which would once again have me giggling. Camelia's intelligence, determination, and career choice nicely compliment Simon's own unorthodox lifestyle. Startling original, marvelously humorous, and wonderfully told, EVERY WHISPERED WORD is a must read.  EVERY WHISPERED WORD comes very highly recommended.  <br />	2005-03-18
449383:US	49693975	RZUGCT483QP63	1418477354	730465892	The Secret of the Enchanted Forest: The Schmooney Trilogies	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Spring break provides the perfect opportunity for twelve-year old Austin Cook and his family to make the trip to the north Georgia mountains to visit Uncle Steve. The two hour trip transports these city dwellers to a very different, forested world where the unexpected becomes possible. While Austin has always had a gift for relating to children and animals, he never suspected that his special gift with small creatures would be cause for an adventure that could save lives.  <br /> <br />Author Bob Shumaker is a remarkable new talent in the world of children's books, earning the WordWeaving Award for Excellence. THE SECRET OF THE ENCHANTED FOREST engages young minds with a marvelous story that is at once educational and entertaining. This enchanting story, filled with natural science and imaginative play, overlays a core of emotional truth that encourages children to identify with Austin and explore their own special gifts. Author Bob Shumaker's powerful, timeless storytelling will endure for many generations of readers to come. Fans will be pleased to know that there is a sequel in the making.  <br />	2004-11-21
459987:US	49693975	R1TFB30HWAYQ60	0373230273	860210206	Marry Me... Maybe? (By Request 2's)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Release of two favorites	Authors Tori Carrrinton and Anne McAllister come together for a delightful read in MARRY ME...MAYBE? These powerful storytellers have a proven track record that has long captivated fans, providing consistently excellent reads. While their styles are marvelously diverse, these authors share dynamic characterizations and distinctive voices, resulting in a combined effort certain to please series romance lovers. In each full-length tale, strong heroines have agreed to marry someone else, and these heroes are challenged to prove their love, despite their mistakes in the past.  <br /> <br /> <br />First released in 1999, LICENSE TO THRILL was Tori Carrington's first Temptation miniseries entitled the Magnificent McCoy Men, and hero Marc McCoy certainly lives up to readers' expectations. When his partner Melanie Weber is hospitalized following an attempt on a senator, Marc cannot bring himself to visit her in the hospital, nor can he get past her interfering mother when Melanie returns home to recuperate. Believing his interest has waned, Melanie intends to marry someone else to give her child a father. Then Marc kidnaps her only two days before her planned wedding. A titillating read, LICENSE TO THRILL contains a couple of twists at the end that makes every page worthwhile. Look for the next two books in the series, THE P.I. WHO LOVED HER and FOR HER EYES ONLY to be released in a double offering in MARCH 2005 and new REAL MCCOY story in April 2005. <br /> <br />With over fifty books to her credit, author Anne McCallister's voice remains fresh and captivating in the release, I THEE WED. Three years ago college student Diane Bauer fell in love with Nick Granatelli while he attended Harvard Business School. His father's potentially fatal heart attack draws Nick back to his native St. Louis and into a life he believes that precludes a woman like Diane. Harsh words motivated by his own painful internal landscape motivate Diane to transform her life. When they meet again threeyears later, they have effectively traded places, with Nick feeling lost and having run away from home and with Diane living a life of independence and self assurance. Nick has never been able to get Diane out of his mind, but now she plans to marry someone else. McCallister's graceful prose resonance with the lyricism of poetry, resulting in a read that is both entertaining and elegant.  <br />	2004-11-11
481519:US	49693975	R1SU5LZUTH48KI	0345447409	149850483	Until Dark	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Very highly recommended	A stalker follows FBI compositor Kendra Smith. As she interviews witnesses and create a composite of a serial killer, she does not suspect that she being watched. Nor does she suspect that he specifically targets young mothers just to get her attention. Moreover, her own darkly tragic past creates deep sympathy for the families of the serial killer, having lost her brother and cousin many years ago, and more recently her mother to a supposed suicide.  <br /> <br />Agent Adam Stark brings Kendra the package of information that lures her into the investigation into the deaths of these young mothers. Kendra and Adam share a history, sadly disrupted when her mother died. With her back in his life, Adam's determination to protect Kendra and their mutual work brings them closely together. <br /> <br />Life has a tendency to sidetrack me, despite my best intentions. So when a book waits until this long to receive a review, and I still feel the urge to rave, it is certainly one to remember! UNTIL DARK dazzles readers with richly realized characterization that spring from the page, from the spunky heroine to the identity of the serial killer in this fascinating police procedural. With rich emotional nuances, subtle yet creative plot devices, and a romance brewing in the midst, UNTIL DARK provides a fast paced read impossible to put down, coming very highly recommended. <br />	2004-10-22
505526:US	49693975	R1RZ56OT08AUA0	0373791496	69863443	Wicked: Sleeping With Secrets	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Very highly recommended	Surgeon Will Sexton engages in wicked fantasies about his presumably lesbian neighbor Renae Truesdale while coping with abstinence because of his born again virgin girlfriend. Five months without sex has him nearly out of his mind when he encounters Renae enticingly dressed as belly dancer at eight in the morning. Sexy banter leaves them both desiring more than a searing kiss, however. Moreover, avoidance tactics only thrust them irresistibly into one another's orbit and lands them in marathon sex.  <br /> <br />Both Will and Renae convince themselves that their sexual exploits will leave them sated and allow them to get on with their lives. Renae dreams of becoming more than just a sales clerk at the women's only store where she sells erotic clothing and teaches belly dancing. Will hopes that his relationship with an intern with lead to love. Certainly their relationship seems destined to end almost as soon as it begins, but something keeps pulling them together anyway.  <br /> <br />Characteristic of writing team Tori Carrington's inestimable style, WICKED delivers an illicit, erotic read that absolutely sizzles. With a seamless blend of this writing team's voices, WICKED springs to life with its passionate and memorable characterizations. Carrington's ability to present both the male and female point of view makes every book they write a treat, and remarkably unique, especially for series romance. A delightful and memorable read, WICKED comes very highly recommended.  <br />	2004-09-30
540658:US	49693975	R1Q5PS1N6B1J5U	0399528105	133750704	Women For Hire: The Ultimate Guide to Getting A Job	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Very highly recommended	While we have often heard that net-working is the key for job hunting, women have traditionally underestimated the value of self-promotion. From finding the perfect job to negotiating a raise, WOMEN FOR HIRE offers practical solutions to getting a job. In a society that encouraging self-effacement, self-promotion can prove quite a challenge for the job hunter.  <br /> <br />Learning to present ourselves with confidence, without sounding egotistical has become the edge women need to succeed in the current job market. With WOMEN FOR HIRE, women can get ahead in their careers. From resumes and cover letters, to conversations and interviews, women can learn to get the job, raise or promotion they deserve. Complete with exercises that help turn responsibility to an accomplishment, WOMEN FOR HIRE is practical way to capitalize on previous achievements.  <br /> <br />Although stuck in my review pile for months and months, WOMEN FOR HIRE drew my eye recently as I began yet another job search. An unexpected lay off had sent me scurrying for advice, suggestions and hope, all of which I discovered in this remarkable book. Written for the every day woman, WOMEN FOR HIRE confronts the challenges of job hunting with both optimism and practicality. Inspired by the reminder that perhaps a change of careers might be in order, I followed the books advice regarding networking and self-promotion. Within a month networking led to gainful employment with a company that offers great possibilities! A must have tool for any women searching for her first job or the next step in her career, WOMEN FOR HIRE comes very highly recommended.  <br /> <br />	2004-08-28
542009:US	49693975	RHOVUS139IDKR	0553583530	422203864	Lady Justice	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Sequel to Lady Liberty -- Very highly recommended	As the group only known as the Consortium targets the United States economy, only Special Detail Unit Agent Gabby Kincaid has enough knowledge to piece together their threat. Posing as a judge in the small town of Carnal Cove, Florida, Gabby investigates a connection between the local lab and several businessmen. Then a Global Warrior attacks her, exposing her cover. Dutifully, she marks herself for extermination rather than risking the lives of untold numbers of field agents. Her superiors choose her partner Max Grayson to kill her. <br /> <br />Max arrives in the midst of a storm prepared to carry out his duty, but not before he extracts crucial information from Abby. Before he can learn what she has discovered, a lab accident leads Abby to exposure from a particularly virulent form of encephalitis. When treatment causes amnesia, Max uses the opportunity to put off duty for the sake of possibly recovering information from Abby. His continued investigation leads to the discovery that Abby has connected with a group of local women who are subject matter experts for his own organization. With their help, Max hopes to discover the identities of the local members of Consortium before the virus spreads through the swamps of Florida and across the nation. <br /> <br />Author Vicki Hinze once again demonstrates an extraordinary talent for penning exciting romantic suspense with LADY JUSTICE. Conspiracy theorists have long warned of groups that could target the United States economy, bringing the country to its knees, and Hinze portrays this threat in tale both thrilling and compelling. Gabby shift from her reputation of a woman known as \\"Queen Bitch\\" to something more will strike a strong chord of sympathy with readers even as her red hot partner struggles between duty and love. Corruption , greed and love combine in this fast paced read that readers will find difficult to put down, and even more impossible to forget reading. LADY JUSTICE comes very highly recommended. <br /> <br />	2004-08-27
550066:US	49693975	RLJPR1OJYV5QG	0505525860	37224979	Snoops in the City	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Very highly recommended	Desperate to pay her rent, twenty-five year old Tori Whitley accepts her cousin Eddie's job offer to become a PI. A few chapters of an Idiot's Guide for the Private Eye and she is ready to pursue her quarry. Tori's contact insists on calling her Jane Bond, and is rather reticent regarding her motives for having Grady Palmer followed. Unfortunately, she cannot conceal herself when she tales the hunky businessman, yet her brazen attempts unexpectedly land her the opportunity to investigate Grady up close and personal. All she needs to do is determine if Grady has any shady deals going with the city officials of Boca Raton, Florida. <br /> <br />Meanwhile, Grady cannot resist the beautiful woman who so ineptly follows him. When he confronts her, Tori claims irresistible attraction, but Grady cannot decide if she is part of the corruption he investigates, or if she has her own agenda. Instead of being angry or trying to slip away, Grady invites her to accompany him. Surprisingly, Grady invites Tori to accompany him, giving him the opportunity to observe her closely. Hanging out together, Tori and Grady quickly realize that their fierce attraction may lead to consequences neither bargained for.  <br /> <br />Darlene Gardner has long proven her talent for penning quirky, amusing prose that keeps fans coming back to series romance. SNOOPS IN THE CITY proves that this multifaceted, multitalented author certainly has the sass and pizzazz to make the leap mainstream romance. Her unmistakable flair for outrageous situations and memorable characterizations keep the pages irresistible turning. Secondary characters likewise sparkle, including a scene-stealing cat. Quirky, amusing and charming, SNOOPS IN THE CITY comes very highly recommended. <br /> <br />	2004-08-20
597458:US	49693975	R1OE3410DWSTW9	0446670154	956195685	Fire in the Soul: A New Psychology of Spiritual optimism	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Very highly recommended	Friends have been telling me for years that I am entirely too pessimistic. With an eye toward changing, I searched the local bookstore shelves a book that presents a balanced spiritual optimism. FIRE IN THE SOUL by Joan Borysenko, Ph.D seemed to meet my needs exactly. Certainly the concept that every difficult experience provides an opportunity for soul growth is not new to me. But Borysenko has a gift for presenting familiar material in a way that is refreshing and revitalizing as she points to the paths that allow the pain of soul making to lead to deep healing. <br />One of the most profound concepts of FIRE IN THE SOUL is that it is the stories that we tell ourselves that determine how we recover from painful experiences. Pessimism, believing that we have done bad things for bad things to happen, leads to depression and powerlessness. Optimism, accepting that bad things happen to good people but present an opportunity for growth, leads to deep healing.  Like one woman in the book states, \\"This is the role I've been given to play. I'm going to do it as consciously and gracefully as I can.\\"<br />Personal anecdotes, case histories, and various spiritual readings combine in a powerful tool for healing in FIRE IN THE SOUL. I began working my way through the book several months ago as I underwent a terrible spiritual crisis. As the fires of transformation have burned their ways through my life, Borysenko's confirmation of spiritual truths that I have long held has provided the lifeline needed to endure and even flourish despite profound challenges. Certainly it is an imperfect book, with an over abundance of references aimed to encourage the reader to buy Borysenko's previous book. And many of the concepts are quite familiar. Yet Borysenko's gift for weaving text that speaks to the soul and inspires transformation makes FIRE IN THE SOUL a powerful spiritual tool. FIRE IN THE SOUL comes very highly recommended.	2004-07-09
597497:US	49693975	R13T6VVLP7M4MA	1555837271	639390356	Is It a Date or Just Coffee?: The Gay Girl's Guide to Dating, Sex, and Romance	Books	5	37	40	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Forty years of heterosexual living did not prepare me for the dilemma of discerning IS IT A DATE OR JUST COFFEE when I started dating women. Well, perhaps dating was too strong a word since it always seems to turn out to be coffee. When straight gals meet straight guys, they know what to expect. With gay-gal dating, they seem to be showering together before reaching a consensus as to whether or not they are friends or something more. Fortunately, Mo Brownsey takes some of the confusion out gay-gal dating with her wonderful book.<br />From being single, relationships, breakups and mourning, Brownsey covers it all. Need help identifying the dreaded lesbian bed death? Not sure if it's lust or love? Considering multiple partner relationships? Mo supplies the answers along with tongue-in-cheek comedy that will keep you howling with laughter no matter where you are concerning gay-gal relationships. I admit to suffering from STD myself (Sexually Transmitted Denial). For gals like me who find themselves in the midst of redefining their sexuality, and refuse to take the whole dating thing too seriously, Mo Brownsey's book is the definitive answer for the basics of gay-gal dating. Her comedic approach to relationships, breakups, recovery and sex is an indispensable guide for those new to this lifestyle as well as gay-gals who've always know that they weren't straight but love a good laugh. Indeed, straight or lesbian, all women will find themselves in this remarkably astute book. IS IT A DATE OR JUST COFFEE earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2004-07-09
603682:US	49693975	RLF0NVWZ3PSYT	0373791410	602820875	Indecent: Sleeping With Secrets	Books	5	2	2	N	N	From the &quot;Sleeping with Secrets&quot; series	Three months ago a client falsely accused psychiatrist Dr. Colin McKenzie of indecent behavior. His lawyer advised a shift in his practice and celibacy until the case could be resolved. Then Lucky Clayborn enters his office and all bets are off. Sentenced to counseling after her second D.U.I, Lucky immediately captures Colin's attention with her flaming hair and fiery temperament. When she seeks him out alone, Colin immediately warns her that he cannot engage in anything of a personal nature with a client. So she changes councilors. <br />Colin provides an explosive attraction that Lucky has not experienced in a long time. She determinedly sets out to engage in an affair all the while protecting her heart. Lucky leads a difficult life trying to stay ahead of her painful past and existing from paycheck to paycheck. But Colin manages to touch something deep within Lucky, something she carefully protects, and suddenly Lucky will have to decide if the good doctor is worth the risk of love. <br />Authors Tori Carrington pen an engaging romance in INDECENT. . As always, the writing team Tori Carrington reveals their fabulous talent for a unique balance in the male and female perspective, resulting in prose rich with complexity and characters who really live. Colin's struggle with his ethical dilemmas and remarkable insight into his work by the end of the novel reveals a character of deep complexity and reveals striking growth that nicely parallels Lucky's transformation. Strong willed and independent, Lucky struggles to balance the past with the present, using alcohol as a tool. With Colin's entrance in her life, she rises to the occasion, transforming into a powerful woman who risks everything when she lets him beyond her defensesINDECENT comes very highly recommended.	2004-07-04
615293:US	49693975	RJ3QU5MYHJI5X	0743446054	810150020	The Spy Who Loves Me	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Sequel to &quot;Nobody But You&quot; -- Very highly recommended	A malevolent plot intends to use a top-secret laser for wealth and revenge. Operatives Amber Robinson and her partner Brandon are assigned the case. Amber has been with the Unit since she was fifteen. It has become her family as well as providing the latest and greatest tools technology offers. She believes that she would never give up her spy world for anyone or anything; that is, until Amber and Brandon track terrorist mercenary Drake's girlfriend Diana to a apartment complex. Then Finn catches her attention.<br />Soon Amber realizes she is not the only one observing Diana. Neighbor Phineus &quot;Finn&quot; Teague watches Diana from his window as well. Little does he suspect that his innocent musings, daydreams of becoming Agent Python, will lead him into a dangerous world of spies and espionage. Suddenly his innocuous wishes to escape boring depositions and overburdening student loans lead to life of intrigue beyond that which he imagined. Now he will do anything to protect the spy he loves.<br />Julie Kenner's superb gift for storytelling dazzles in THE SPY WHO LOVED ME. With so many books on the market, readers are hard put to find author's who distinctive style brings them back again and again. But Kenner is one of those authors who's artful humor and the fully developed characters bring her stories vividly alive, even in the seemingly contradictory blend of fantasy and reality. Whether she is writing about superheroes or spies, Kenner creates tales that consistently charm and intrigue. THE SPY WHO LOVED ME come very highly recommended.	2004-06-25
618298:US	49693975	R1PC1LTQXFJFFW	0373750285	512232047	The Cowboy and the Bride: Fatherhood	Books	5	3	3	N	N	From the &quot;Fatherhood&quot; series - Very highly recommended	When barbed wire snares her bridal dress, Madeleine Tate finds herself at the mercy of the property owner to rescue her from spectators and a bad tempered bull. But then, since her fiancé stood her up in Vegas after making off with her luggage, Madeline had already had a really bad day. Driving across Idaho, she ran out of gas. And before her would be rescuer can free her from the barbed wire, a bull named Cyclone puts in an appearance. With the flick of a knife, the bull makes off with the gauze and Madeleine reveals her sexy silk stockings and garter belt.<br />Jake Montgomery has little time to rescue women between running his ranch and caring for his five-year-old daughter. But Madeline's fortuitous arrival does mean she can pitch in caring for his daughter temporarily, even if she cannot remember to drain the wading pool or cook anything that is not burned. But Jake knows that Madeleine belongs in bright lights and pursuing a career rather than living in the wilds of Idaho. <br />Author Marin Thomas adds her unique flair to the traditional jilted bride theme in THE COWBOY AND THE BRIDE. The opening scene will absolutely leave the reader in stitches as the taciturn observers discuss their unusual find even as Madeline struggles valiantly to free herself from barbed wire. And the light touch continues to lend the story sparkle even as more serious danger appears or as deeper emotional issues surface. While all the characters are wonderfully memorable, it's Madeline's refreshing view of the world that adds extra zest to this delightful tale. THE COWBOY AND THE BRIDE come very highly recommended.	2004-06-23
618575:US	49693975	R1F7YWZJKG3T07	0451411285	106947774	Sing Me Home	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Very highly recommended	Neglecting routine maintenance on their car resulted in her husband's death. Three years have not healed his loss or their unborn child. Now her brother's death brings the inevitable close of his less-than-profitable bookstore, &quot;Merry-Go-Read.&quot; In the final days before closing, curious circumstances bring a stranger into the store. She does not recognize country music star Jonathan Van Castle, perceiving his behavior to rude and his lack of knowledge regarding his own children inexcusable. When she later finds another book in the series that Jon purchased, Lil sends her younger sister to make the delivery. She comes back engaged.<br />Dodging a pack of fans, Jon ducks into &quot;Merry-Go-Round&quot; to escape. He finds startling blue eyes and surprising anonymity. He has come to town to pick up his children for the summer while their mother cleans up again. When Lil's younger sister Mari shows up to deliver the book, for the sake of his children, he finds himself proposing. His troubled children certainly need a loving feminine influence. But when Mari takes him to meet the family, Jon discovers it's the older sister that holds the potential of stealing his heart. <br />A warm and touching story, SING ME HOME is one of those wonderful romances that truly captures the heart. The strong characterizations spring vividly to life from Lil's initial disdain of Jon's lack of knowledge regarding his children to her motherly touch with the children. While the extended cast of characters can be a bit much to keep up with, their individuality makes each one a delight to encounter. Filled with joy and laughter, pathos and challenges, SING ME HOME comes very highly recommended.	2004-06-23
624947:US	49693975	R20Q0T0BX7J5VS	0451210174	476235365	Dirty Fire	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Very highly recommended	Flames destroy the evidence, and only ex-police officer John Davey's persistence ties the death of innocents to a labyrinth of corruption. His career ended with his own tie to the corruption, and only inadmissible evidence saves John from serving time in prison. With the threat of the prosecution finding admissible evidence forever haunting him, John struggles to survive. <br />A convict's tip and the certainty of arson lead to John's second chance when he joins the investigation. Soon his inquires lead to billions of dollars in artwork that disappeared during the holocaust. The Russians do not even admit to the all of the works of art they hide even as they pledge their cooperation to return of the art that could be proven to have belonged to holocaust victims.<br />From the fires of the holocaust to the flames of arson, missing art leads to international horror. Through a plot filled with intricacy and surprises, Earl Merkel's second novel, DIRTY FIRE exceeds expectations. The powerfully render protagonist desperately fights to out run his personal demons even as he struggles with his father's dishonesty and betrayal by his department. Gristly murders, international intrigue and conflicting interests combine for a suspense filled novel impossible to put down. Once again Merkel has the ability to make a complex plot and fascination characterizations bristle with authenticity. DIRTY FIRE comes very highly recommended.	2004-06-18
625201:US	49693975	R3AQW2XGPORCHK	0373791348	122146302	Eye Candy	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Highly recommended	Crystal Peterson appeals to longtime friend and confidante Sam Schaffer to help her transform from one of the boys to a siren. Crystal might get the winning touchdown, but the sports beauties at the sideline garner all of Ron's attention after the game. Sam conceals it, but it pains him to watch the scarcely concealed longing in Crystal's eyes whenever Ron is around. So when Crystal decides to transform her appearance and try to become one of Ron's calendar models, Sam agrees in exchange for her writing a column for him.<br />Sam eventually agrees to help, going with Crystal for cosmetics and hairstyling. But when she drags him through boutiques and lingerie stores, passion replaces common sense. Crystal believes that if she can turn on Sam then she should have no trouble turning Ron in. Little does she suspect the passion he conceals, or the emotional rollercoaster they are about to embark upon. <br />Author Dorie Graham brings a fresh eye to the often used plot of best friends who cross the boundaries into love with EYE CANDY. Crystal's oblivion to the effect she has on Sam and her determination early in the novel to win someone else's attention creates powerful sexual tension. Sam's inability to resist her allure and willing to risk two decades of friendship makes for powerful relationship drama that comes highly recommended.	2004-06-17
625495:US	49693975	R2KPVLSMSATRO1	0425195244	461037618	Beauty Queen (Lear Family Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Sequel to Material Girl	Former beauty queen Rebecca Lear found that her title, former marriage and motherhood by proxy did not prepare her to find happiness and fulfillment after her divorce. Cut off from her former friends when her ex-husband immediately remarries and integrates wife number two into their social circles, even Rebecca's wealth cannot provide purpose to her life. Then her sisters provided her with a birthday present that leads to transformation in the form of motivation and a relocation. Her suddenly nannyless five-year-old son and she must find their own way for the first time. Being a former beauty queen unexpectedly leads to her first job as part of political campaign where her smoozing and party arranging skills have extraordinary value. <br />Unfortunately, her first day on the job brings her back in contact with Matt Parish, with whom a mix up already has put them at odds. While Rebecca might be the most beauty woman he has ever met, Matt has little faith in her campaign skills. As he struggles with the direction his legal partnership seems to be heading, his constant sparring with Rebecca fails to conceal their mutually sizzling chemistry. As Rebecca transforms entertainment skills and political connections into usable job experience, she becomes a force be reckoned with both in the office and in her relationship with Matt.<br />An irreverent sense of humor and snappy dialogue make BEAUTY QUEEN a quick read, even as the humor lightly conceals a poignant tale of transformation and second chances. Rebecca's womanizing ex-husband is drawn with a black brush with his inconsiderate treatment of their son, but his unthinking cruelty to both Rebecca and the child inspires Rebecca to extraordinary growth. She soon discovers, however, that transformations require ethics and values that do not necessary receive respect in the political arena. Meanwhile, Matt's reevaluation of his life goals mirrors Rebecca's struggles and adds to their fiery relationship. Their brutal honestywith each other rips away the lovely masks each presents to the world, forcing them to be honest with each other and with themselves. Overall, author Julia London does an amazing job of balancing the ridiculous with the sublime, the humorous with drama. The result is a wonderfully entertaining read that comes very highly recommended.	2004-06-17
625654:US	49693975	RYFM8TJFEVHLJ	0373691793	434098452	The Longest Night: The Bachelorette Pact	Books	5	1	1	N	N	From &quot;The Bachelorette Pact&quot; series	The Windy City's original party-girl, Cassandra Ward makes no apology for her lifestyle. She lives by four rules, clean sex, frequent sex, no promises and no monogamy. With a body that haunts men's fantasies, she is the kind of a woman who likes to live them out. She believes that sex is great exercise, clears the complexion and relieves stress. Most men agree. When Noah turned her down six months ago, she walked away without a thought. When he approaches at Beth's wedding, she cannot forget the pain she sees in his eyes because she put there. Somehow her victory dance does not seem as much fun as it used to. So she decides to give him a second chance. <br />For six months Noah Barclay has dreamed of Cassandra after she ruined him for anyone else. Where he once turned down her advances, he is desperate for another chance. He wants her, no doubt, but he wants far more than just sex. So he makes a deal with Cassandra. He offers to give up sex, to do the who touchy-feely thing, if she will consider monogamy. He is determined to prove that a man and a woman can have a great time without having sex. He will stake his future on it.<br />Wow! THE LONGEST NIGHT is an exhilarating read that will certainly please fans. At last Cassandra meets her match in Noah. The last of the bachelorettes, Cassandra has underestimated the power of finding the right man. Fiery, sassy, and in control, Cassandra lends the series the obligatory bad girl with no apology. Her delight in sex, her determination to play by her self defined rules and her ability to control any situation, until Noah comes along, lends the series pizzazz and an appealing strength. Noah matches Cassandra in power with his determination to override his libido and capture Cassandra's heart. Funny, sexy and memorable, THE LONGEST NIGHT is the best of the series, coming very highly recommended.	2004-06-17
625810:US	49693975	R122Y0NUVGVAQY	0758203616	952050897	The Wilde Side	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The Wilde boys are back! Very highly recommended	For her thirtieth birthday Ashley St. Claire makes an erotic and provocative wish. After three years, for one night, she wants to walk on the wild side. So she trades her designer suits for a short skirt and heads to a bar on the outskirts of Chicago. There she meets Scott Wilde, the bachelor who agrees to make her fantasies a reality. But she introduces herself as &quot;Just Ashley&quot; and after a fantastic night together, slips out in the morning without leaving a clue to her identity. She has been burned one too many times for being one of the St. Claires of the wealthy family that owns a five star hotel chain.<br />Scott cannot forget the girl who rocked his world. While Ashley is obviously a good girl, her eagerness to be bad for a night proves absolutely irresistible. When she disappears without a trace the next morning, Scott cannot help feeling intensely disappointed. So when she calls a few days later, he eagerly welcomes an opportunity to talk. But he has already been burned once by a woman who kept secrets, and he is desperate to know Ashley's true identity. It will take more than a wild ride between the sheets to convince Ashley to give him a real chance.<br />Readers have come to expect excellence from author Janelle Denison, and once again she delivers with THE WILDE SIDE. A provocatively sexy read that readers will find impossible to put down, THE WILDE SIDE strikes the perfect balance between sensuality, erotica and romance. Ashley and Scott struggle with conflicts and emotional baggage that keep their characters depth. Ashley proves her heart to be made of gold as she struggles with thefts from her boutique. Yet she has spent most of her life living up to other people's expectations rather than honoring her own needs and desires. Scott is remarkably believable hero who once made a mistake that cost the family business dearly, and a personal choice that makes him incredibly gun shy of anyone who cannot be absolutely forthright. Fans will be eagerlyawaiting the next installment of the Wilde family. THE WILDE SIDE comes very highly recommended.	2004-06-17
626104:US	49693975	RG481PD6JETEG	0373712022	541134804	To Save this Child (Harlequin Superromance No. 1202)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very highly recommended	Every spring Dr. Jason Bridges closes his office for three weeks, heading to the remote jungles of Chiapas, Mexico where he offers his medical skills to the natives. Despite the hectic schedule and primitive conditions, Jason achieves something akin to redemption in his service to these needy people. Through the years of service, his staff has become as hooked on the experience as the doctor himself, and none of them ever want to leave. But when a last minute medical emergency sidelines his translator, Jason turns unexpectedly to pharmaceutical representative Kendal Collins for help.<br />During the lonely year since Phillip dumped her, Kendal has gone from top earning drug rep to the bottom of the heap. Without Phillips added income, her lifestyle has become too expensive to afford, and pity parties an occasional necessity. Determined to do anything to revitalize her flagging career, Kendal agrees to provide her translation skills in return for the opportunity to prove the worth of her company's pharmaceuticals. With his medical reputation, Jason's switch her company's drugs assures Kendal the career boost she needs. The last thing she expects is fall in love with a child in Mexico, let alone the doctor who operates on him.<br />TO SAVE THIS CHILD almost feels like it was placed in the wrong category with its political intrigue, but its heart felt emotions places it squarely in the Superromance series. This powerful medical romance leads Jason and Kedal not only through the dangers of a jungle but also the challenging terrain of the heart. Jason's determination to remain emotional distance cannot endure the onslaught of the intriguing Kendal. The descriptions of the conditions of Chiapas, Mexico and the necessity of drawing lots for medical care provides both a disturbing and a poignant background that lingers in the imagination long after the last page is turned. Powerfully rendered and impossible to put down, TO SAVE THIS CHILD comes very highly recommended.	2004-06-17
626173:US	49693975	R30IA9E8JH2Q0U	0373712030	278625510	For a Baby: 9 Months Later (Harlequin Superromance No. 1203)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	From the &quot;9 Months Later&quot; series - Recommended	Years after her first love married someone else, Heather Sweeney still carries a torch for Russell. Now a medical condition leads to early infertility. So when explosive passion leads her to bed with T.J. Collins, Heather does not care if she becomes pregnant. In fact, part of her hopes that she does. Once she learns of her pregnancy, however, Heather informs T.J. of her condition and asks him to marry her.<br />T.J. fears setting expectations that he cannot meet. He would rather decline involvement in Heather's life and their unborn child than to somehow fail them. With his previous family, he has already proven that even if he occasionally gets something right, he always disappoints his loved ones in the end. Only in the intimacy of their bedroom does he freely show his feelings for Heather. But the question remains how long that can be enough for either of them.<br />C.J. Carmichael takes a challenging position with her heroine in FOR A BABY. Heather deliberately allows herself to get pregnant, and her marital expectation of T.J. seems wildly unfair given their situation. Only the fact that he so easily capitulates redeems the situation. While she might be a woman who always tried to the right thing, Heather's long term fantasy regarding Russell's refusal to accept his emotions and Heather's machinations make for a rather cold beginning to a read that becomes remarkably tender by the end. While that extreme shift of tone provides a lovely read when all is said and done, it does require the reader to persevere. FOR A BABY comes recommended.	2004-06-17
626430:US	49693975	R3MK4C17QNMPMT	037371209X	356510675	A Full House: You, Me & the Kids (Harlequin Superromance No. 1209)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	From the You, Me &amp; the Kids series - Highly recommended	Dr. Annie Crawford dreams of a quiet place where the wind can blow her troubles away. Then comes a call late in the night from the police reporting that they have her teen daughter who was joyriding and in the company of a boy with a record. When she needs the summer to spend near her daughter, Annie's request is denied by the hospital, although they offer her two weeks. So she resigns to get her daughter out of the city for the summer. Annie hopes to take time for herself while her daughter spends part of her time with her remarried father nearby, but not all things go as planned.<br />Lieutenant Jake Macpherson was the arresting officer for Annie's daughter. When he turns up in the emergency room not long afterward, Annie feels especially driven to save his life. Their subsequent acquaintance inspires Jake to spend the summer recuperating near Annie's vacation destination in hopes of seeing her again. His movie star ex-wife leaves their five-year-old daughter in his care for the summer as well. Soon Jake finds Annie -- along with everyone else that makes for a full house.<br />Author Nadia Nichols has one of those amazingly voices that stays with a reader. From the first paragraph in A FULL HOUSE this reviewer recognized Nichols' voice with its delicate lyricism and powerful undertone. Annie and Jake share an equal need to spend time with their children and to find a measure of healing. Moreover, this character driven novel has several unexpectedly delightful characters that span three generations, including elderly Lilly who has lost her independence to Annie's troubled teen daughter. A FULL HOUSE is a lovely and beautifully told story of new love and healing that comes highly recommended.	2004-06-17
626554:US	49693975	RV84R056N23PW	0373712081	522161542	The Man She Married: Men of Maple Hill (Harlequin Superromance No. 1208)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	From the &quot;Men of Maple Hill&quot; series -Recommended	A long, dark year finally seems to culminate in success for Prue Hale until her estranged husband arrives in Maple Hill. Rather than presenting her with divorce papers, he proposes a temporary reconciliation based on a business opportunity for Prue. Her clothing line has captured his aunt's eye, and she offers a fabulous publicity package during a planned visit. Little does Prue suspect that Hugh and his aunt have conspired together to give her marriage to Hugh a second chance.<br />When Prue refuses to listen to reason, Hugh knows he must gamble on an outside chance if he wants his marriage back. Moving her into his home and playing at being married again to supposedly receive the gift of a publicity package for her business might seem duplicitous, but a man in love must resort to desperate measures during desperate times. Perhaps if they can spend some time together Prue will come to trust him enough to accept that he had never been unfaithful, only foolish.<br />Second chances lend charm to Muriel Jensen's THE MAN SHE MARRIED. Communication issues destroyed Gideon and Prue's marriage and threaten to wreck their second chance. Gideon and Prue are realistic, sympathetic characters whose flaw is simply being human. When lack of time strained their marriage the first time, trust issues prevented her from believing that he had not been unfaithful. But Prue herself has not been as honest with Gideon as he deserved, and only when communication and love come together does this damaged couple find the healing that they both deserve. I admit, however, to having reservations about duplicity to bring about reconciliation for a marriage that was originally destroyed by miscommunication and trust issues. It seems to me that such dishonesty could perpetuate the problem rather than solve it. Nonetheless, THE MAN SHE MARRIED is still a pleasant afternoon's read that comes recommended.	2004-06-17
645733:US	49693975	R25Z1AXO5BN4G7	0373791402	167958880	Yours In Black Lace	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Sequel to RED SHOES &amp; A DIARY	For four months Stephanie &quot;Stevie&quot; Madison has been sending anonymously bold and sensual notes to her boss, P.I. Emilio Sachez. She signs each note &quot;Yours, in black lace.&quot; With three women regularly calling Emilio, she figures erotica is the key to getting his attention. Unfortunately, Emilio refuses to become involved with employees or with clients, and Stevie is both when she brings him surveillance photos she received anonymously. <br />Rogelio Braga's face in the background of Stevie's photos instantly indicates that she is in more danger than she realizes, and Emilio feels compelled to step in. Before opening January Investigations, Emilio worked for the Justice Department. A case involving Braga resulted in the death of an informant and blew his cover and three years of work. Now Emilio attaches himself to Stevie 24/7 until he can solve the potentially deadly connection between Braga and Stevie. Meanwhile, Emilio quickly catches on that Stevie has been sending him the black lace notes and they become the springboard for their fantasies to come true.<br />Author Mia Zachary has quickly proven herself to be one of Harlequin's rising stars penning provocative and passionate romance. YOURS IN BLACK LACE is a &quot;one-sitting&quot; read that takes the reader's emotions on a roller-coaster ride. The essential blend of sensuality and excitement brings her characters vividly alive. Indeed, Stevie's relentless enthusiasm whether she's hotwiring a car or making love creates marvelous tension as she struggles with her internal demons. Emilio's own demons result in a haunted hero who has a chance at redemption if he can end this case and keep Stevie safe, despite her willful determination to remain actively involved in the investigation. This multicultural romance brings a taste of the exotic and the splendor of independence into a memorable read that comes very highly recommended.	2004-06-02
649304:US	49693975	R1II02K1VUAIRZ	0821773429	467256157	Perfect Switch	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Very highly recommended	While her twin sister sports glitzy sequence and glamour, Meredith Madison prefers her Birkenstocks. Neverthelss, the museum advertising historian decides to assumes her twin sister Marley's glamorous movie star identity for a couple of weeks and some pizzazz to her life. The invitation she co-opted includes a limo and a hunky escort named Tony Valentine. But Meredith does not realize that the invitation also includes a contract to teach movie star insider inforation at Valentine Studio's actors fantasy camp. <br />Meredith immediately explains the case of switched identity; unfortunately, Tony does not believe her. That is, until the first day on the set when she makes ridiculous mistakes and displays a decided lack of star glamour. But with Marely honeymooning and Valentine studios in financial straights, Tony has no choice but to persuade Meredith to transform from klutz to sophisticate. Meanwhile, the sizzling chemistry between them is enough to create an inferno.<br />Author Lisa Plumley has a gift for comedic romance, delighting yet again with PERFECT SWITCH Although twin tales seem to be all the rage at the moment, Plumley manages to add her own unique twists for a refreshingly different approach. Meredith quickly reveals her identity to Tony, who refuses to believe her until her decided lack of acting skills proves her word. Tony needs Meredith to successfully play the part of her sister or his entire family will suffer the effects of the financial difficulties plaguing the studio. Meanwhile, Tony's matchmaking family provides plenty of laughs with their determined antics and eccentricities. The perfect blend of tender romance, witty dialogue, and outrageous antics, PERFECT SWITCH comes very highly recommended.	2004-05-30
649327:US	49693975	R2ZPODXHOVHAJ1	037379133X	49774333	Forbidden	Books	5	4	5	N	N	From the &quot;Sleeping with Secrets&quot; series	A year ago and a half ago J.T. West rocked her world, and just as she broke up with her husband, disappeared from town. So Leah Dubois Burger has spent the last year recovering from a broken heart, a divorce, and the resentment of her eleven-year-old daughter. Now she verges on recommitting herself to her ex-husband and making her daughter's dream of them as a family come true. Then she sees J.T. at the local Kroger and her world tilts again.<br />J.T. did not want to leave Leah, and he returns because he has to know if they share more than sizzling chemistry. Every time they are together they share mind blowing sex, but he wants to know if Leah's heart is involved as well. Unfortunately, J.T. is a man on the run and cannot offer Leah the future that she deserves. No matter how good the sex is or how much either of them might want more.<br />Author writing team Tori Carrington has a gift for creating sensual romance that meets reader's high expectations of the Blaze line. But they also have a flair for characterization. This husband/wife team consistently gives both the male and female characters a unique roundness, as especially demonstrated in FORBIDDEN. I admit that this is the first series romance I have encountered that the heroine has an affair that breaks up her marriage, and on the brink of remarrying, returns to the forbidden. And J.T. is defiantly a forbidden pleasure. Moreover, Leah's ex-husband is not a bad man, neither having abused her nor treated her particularly badly. They simply did not have a good marriage that satisfied both of their needs, thereby depriving Leah the standard moral clauses that excuse pursuing another man. Certainly Leah faces choices that many women confront with courage and strength, however challenging and difficult this real-life situation might be. While this is a plot that could go badly awry with reader sympathy, Carrington makes the forbidden both understandable and forgivable The result is a sizzling, sensual and daring,making FORBIDDEN very highly recommended.	2004-05-30
649528:US	49693975	R1LIRW9C6C7V97	037327369X	963301860	A Cry in the Dark (Family Secrets) (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1299)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	From the &quot;Family Secrets&quot; series	A cry in the dark awakens the first generation of those people who were genetically altered during experiments in the sixties. They hear a child, but their own children are fine, yet they each know something is very wrong. At that very moment, six-year-old Alex is kidnapped. His mother, Danielle Caldwell, has gypsy blood and a gift for precognition. Once she made a mistake using her gift, which resulted in her child's father's death, and now she has turned her back on her gift and the family who would have her use it.<br />A string of clues brings Liam Brooks to Diana's door. After his wife's death, Liam has dedicated himself to bringing Titan down. Uncertain as to how, Liam is convinced that Titan is connected to Titan. He does not understand Diana's adamant refusal to accept his help or his own determination to offer it. Guarded and emotionally repressed, Liam is surprised at his reactions to Diana and his sudden need to bring her child home. <br />Author Jenna Mills pens a compelling and evocative kick off to the &quot;Family Secrets: The Next Generation&quot; series. A CRY IN THE DARK grabs the reader from the beginning and never lets up with its intense emotional stake and unexpected twists. The use of paranormal gifts is handled with finesse as Diana confronts her past and her abilities. Liam's pain haunts him, blocking him from any emotional connection to the present except the driving need to bring Titan down; that is, until he meets Diana. His powerful internal conflict adds just the right balance to Diana's struggle. A masterfully rendered tale, A CRY IN THE DARK comes very highly recommended.	2004-05-30
655014:US	49693975	R2RS1U0Y8IF7T	0373273568	442498344	Guilty Secrets (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1286)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Highly recommended	Nurse practitioner Nell Dolan, nicknamed the Angel of Ark Street, cannot afford a single mistake that might bring undue scrutiny. So when a reporter appears on her doorstep just when her pharmacist reports missing drugs, she is understandably concerned. Moreover, Nell has secrets that she cannot afford to have come to light, especially with the clinic's need of donations. <br />Joe's injury while reporting in Iraqi damaged him in ways no one can understand. His hard cynicism extends to his stateside investigations, even the expose he intends to write regarding the Ark Street clinic. The less Nell willingly reveals, the more Joe's investigative side becomes piqued. Soon he finds his loyalties torn, however, between his devotion to his career and his feelings for the enigmatic Nell. <br />Few authors truly excel at presenting consistently excellent reads in series romance, but author Virginia Kantra has established herself at the top of the list. As always, Kantra creats powerfully memorable characters that are deeply wounded and marvelously memorable. In GUILTY SECRETS, Nell and Joe seek healing in an unexpected relationship that they are both terrified to trust. While she appears amazingly misguided at times, Nell's gracefully handing of potentially dangerous situations and sincerely good heart certainly redeem her. Indeed, perhaps it is Nell's contradictory personality that truly draws the reader in. She is powerful and resourceful on one hand, and dangerously codependent on the other. Certainly it lures Joe into loving her despite his innate cynicism. In addition, Kantra does a marvelous job of bringing a dangerous world, with its seamy underbelly, vividly alive. While GUILTY SECRETS may not be her very best offering, it still comes highly recommended.	2004-05-25
657221:US	49693975	R3TUN72PQGKAJA	0451210913	241176148	Secrets	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Recommended	Christian English owes his life to friend Gideon Harwood who rescued him from slavery in the Middle East. Gideon brought Christian home with him to England, offering a life to replace the one that Christian cannot remember. Even his name comes from his most recent experiences since amnesia has robbed him of his past. Now he has fallen in love with Bethany, a resident of Gideon's home. But without a past, Christian has no future to offer her.<br />Bethany keeps her own secrets intentionally. Horrendous circumstances once forced her to exchange her body for the care of her younger sister. She had become the mistress of a member of the aristocracy, but her subsequent pregnancy resulted in rejection. Tragically, the child was stillborn. Now she passes as a widow but knows her past does not bear scrutiny. When Christian proves to be a member of the ton, she believes she must give up all hope of their ever being together.<br />Author Heather Cullman pens a tender tale of love in Regency England with SECRETS, which explores the era's sordid side while delicately maintaining the rich emotional nuances of a finely crafted love story. Christian's transformation from rake to gentleman in the wake of his time in slavery reveals the power of second chances and the genuine goodness of his heart. Bethany's profound challenges expose the difficult challenges of her era as she struggles to overcome her shadowy past. SECRETS comes recommended.	2004-05-24
657859:US	49693975	R3DKTOG7B1FQK1	0373791380	91434584	The One Who Got Away	Books	4	4	4	N	N	From the &quot;Men to Do&quot; series -- Highly recommended	Ten years ago Ben Bowman was the one who got away. Taylor Hanson has never forgotten their magic. When her brother's wedding brings them together again, she vows to put the past into perspective and break the spell Ben has held over her life. Only when she sees him again, Ben is even sexier and more devastating than ever. Moreover, he returns her sentiments. Now they have a week to create new memories before going their separate ways. <br />Seven days and seven nights bring more than sexual satisfaction for Ben. While Taylor treats this as a week to gain perspective and change her life dramatically, she treats her time with Ben as a way to using him as a comparison for every man she meets. She certainly does not seem to be looking to build a future together. So Ben will have to find a way to ensure that when their week is over, she does not simply move on.<br />Author Jo Leigh has built a strong reputation for sexy romance. In THE ONE WHO GOT AWAY, she creates a delightfully sensual tale of second changes. While the plot might seem a bit thin at times, the remarkable chemistry between Taylor and Ben makes for an electrifying read. While friends caution Taylor that life is not a fairy tale and at some time she has to come back to reality, Taylor definitely proves that dreams can come true. THE ONE WHO GOT AWAY comes highly recommended.	2004-05-23
661574:US	49693975	R3GXPV4QQ6D58H	0373712057	355454459	Two on the Run: Count on a Cop (Harlequin Superromance No. 1205)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	From the &quot;Count on a Cop&quot; series - Recommended	As she leaves the Midland, Illinois library, Eleanor Perkins she should have paid attention to her instincts. She quickly finds herself victim to a man holding a gun. But he is no ordinary criminal. He warns her to not use the tricks taught in her self-defense class, because he knows them all. He should since he usually enforces the law, not breaks it. <br />On the lam, police officer Mike Reilly intends to stay alive long enough to prove the corruption within his department. His coworkers are equally determined to see him dead, even if it means taking down an innocent librarian. Their mutual danger soon has both Eleanor and Mike working together to prove the truth, forcing them to place their trust only in each other.<br />Author Margaret Watson pens a fast paced read in TWO ON THE RUN. While the cops chasing Eleanor and Mike seem strangely inept at times, and there are the obligatory Stolckhom Syndrome elements, the power of the writing and the excitement of the drama keep the blood pounding. Scintillating dialogue, sharp wit and surprising dashes of wry humor combine for a fun read. TWO ON THE RUN comes recommended.	2004-05-20
663905:US	49693975	R2VI4A6K282SCM	0974414921	223111715	Soul Awakenings: Exploring The Spiritual Journeys of One Hundred Women	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very highly recommended	In a society that dictates that women put their families, jobs and other responsibilities ahead of themselves, few women seem to pay close attention to their spirituality. Yet it is our spirituality that gives us the strength to persevere and overcome life's challenges. Indeed, spirituality attracts people to our lives, bringing us peace, joy and happiness. Yet spirituality goes by the wayside quickly without a sense of community and connection to others. Hence the necessity for such inspirational books as SOUL AWAKENINGS that connect the reader with an extraordinary community of women with profound spiritual insight.<br />In SOUL AWAKENINGS, author Michelle Quigley interviewed one hundred women from across the country regarding their spiritual journeys and how they balance their spirituality with their everyday lives. Quigley recognizes that each individual is a spiritual being and that it is our awareness of the Divine that carries us through adversity, inspires us in times of doubt, and gives us joy in times of celebration. Remarkably, Quigley balances her interviewees between those who come from traditional religious backgrounds with metaphysical and other paths. The result is well rounded view of spirituality seen through diverse eyes that will appeal to a wide audience. Quigley's insight into the spiritual thread that binds all women in a sisterhood proves to be incredibly uplifting for all seekers. Her words bring both strength and comfort, helping to alleviate the soul searing isolation that many seekers feel when they have difficulty discussing spirituality with others. <br />As each of us works our spiritual paths, it is books like SOUL AWAKENINGS that reminds us that we are not alone in our spiritual journeys. For those who seek to reconnect, or those who wish to validate their own experience through the voices of others, SOUL AWAKENINGS is a powerful tool. Each chapter includes questions for reflection and meditation so the reader can trace their own spiritual awakenings and honor those who aided them on their journey. However readers might define their understanding of the Divine, SOUL AWAKENINGS has something for everyone. SOUL AWAKENINGS comes very highly recommended.	2004-05-18
664862:US	49693975	R1J5FBEQHZ59QT	0373712006	312091159	Silent Witness	Books	3	2	2	N	N	From the &quot;Code Red&quot; series -- Recommended	Andrea arrives at her sister Vicki's home to help her unpack only to walk in on unspeakable tragedy. Her sister claimed to have been returning to Courage Bay after a disastrous marriage and divorce. Only now a family armoire has fallen, breaking her six-year-old nephew's leg. Horribly, the child has born silent witness to his mother's death, trapped with her body for hours. Kevin suffers from Selective Mutism and does not even call for help. A paramedic, Andrea calls for help while trying to comfort the child.<br />When word of his ex-wife's death reaches Grant Corbin, he immediately leaves LA to come to his son's aid. He is not prepared to meet with Andrea's hostility or the lies his ex-wife created. After a year's absence from his son's life, Grant hopes to make up for the past. However, when Grant sees Kevin with Andrea, he has to reevaluate his own needs and desires. Having failed at his marriage to her sister, Grant has little hope doing better by Andrea despite their mutual attraction. <br />Once again author Kay David proves her excellence at creating tales impossible to put down with SILENT WITNESS. However, discerning readers may be a bit distracted by a couple of plot points. First, too little time elapses between the time of Vicki's death and the growing romance between Andrea and Grant; however, the timing is implicitly necessary to keep Grant's decisions immediate regarding his son. Certainly Grant's determination to put his son's best interests ahead of his own desires demonstrates a remarkably loving parent facing an impossible and painful situation. Secondly, author David unfortunately mirrors a commonly held myth among romance writers. Despite commonly held belief, if a man's name appears on the birth certificate, the courts always favor the father who cares for the child since birth. Biology does not determine custody under the circumstances David creates. Nevertheless, the painful family drama and tender romance results in a read that comes recommended.	2004-05-17
666945:US	49693975	RYPYOJVV7B24T	0373791399	457233671	Girl Gone Wild	Books	5	7	8	N	N	From the &quot;Single in South Beach&quot; series	Chef Giselle Cesare's brothers are out of town, clearing a week of over protectiveness. Giselle plans to revel in her temporary freedom, indulging her sensual appetites with the same wicked pleasure that she creates sensual deserts for the Miami singles' club called Club Paradise. When journalist Hugh Duncan suddenly appears in her kitchen in the wee hours of the morning, Giselle thinks her fantasies have been answered until he admits that he is an investigative reporter. Suddenly Giselle's freedom seems irrevocably tainted by scandals from the past. <br />Trading international intrigue for the society pages has been difficult for Hugh. His temporary reassignment nearly at an end, he hopes to turn a piece of fluff assignment into real news when he heads to Club Paradise. The scandal of a year ago still has not led to the arrest of a major player, whom he soon comes to realize was involved with Giselle while married to another stake holder in the resort. The consequences of stirring up old news could be devastating to the resort if Giselle cannot dissuade him with more tempting offerings.<br />Readers have come to expect excellence from Joanne Rock, and once again she delivers with style in GIRL GONE WILD. Her scintillating prose and juicy sensuality combine in fiery passion that leaps from the page. Fans that enjoy believable heroines with less than perfect pasts will treasure Giselle, with her complicated ties within the resort. From phone sex to a room named the Pleasure Parthenon, Rock's text revels in sensual indulgence. With richly realized characterizations and a tasteful combination of business with pleasure, GIRL GONE WILD is a delectable treat that comes very highly recommended.	2004-05-15
670208:US	49693975	R22NHQDBSWFVY8	0373691750	506356443	Breakfast at Bethany's	Books	5	1	1	N	N	From &quot;The Bachelorette Pact&quot; series	So much for the Bachelorette Pact. With Jessica and Mickey married, Beth decides it is her turn. Dreams of daisy nosegays quickly give way to practicality, however, as she places personal ads on the Internet. Too bad that a string of dates fails to ignite her libido the way a certain reports does. Unfortunately, he does not come on their date to find his perfect mate. Instead, Spencer James wants to write article about Internet dating, with Beth as his focus. He offers his help, rewriting Beth's ads to give them originality and zest, in exchange for a story about the results.<br />More than a dozen dates later, Spencer finds himself jealous of Beth's potential mates and unable to act on his attraction. One failed marriage to a society woman has him leery of Beth's background, and his inability to deal with emotion makes it impossible to approach her for more than sex. He certainly has no interest in accumulating any more alimony payments even if Beth does rock his world. And Beth will settle for no less than a ring on her finger.<br />Author Kathleen really hits her stride with BREAKFAST AT BETHANY'S, creating a quirky, off the cuff romance readers will find delightful. The series of ads that begin each chapter are fabulous, especially as they shift to reveal Beth's aggravation with Spencer. The power of their magnetism never fails, even as Spencer fights it every step of the way. Readers will find BREAKFAST AT BETHANY'S an excellent follow through for Jessica and Mickey's stories. Moreover, they will also be eagerly anticipating the final bachelorette's story, with Cassidy's turn in THE LONGEST NIGHT.	2004-05-13
672840:US	49693975	R2H8BCM547J0DM	0373791372	41194918	Some Kind of Sexy	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Forty years ago, the League of Scandalous Women formed for the purpose of intellectual debates, to further women's sexual freedom and to form a creative support group for the progressive thinkers of their time. Juliet Emory's Aunt Ophelia lent her leadership and her home to the group while raising her young niece. Certainly as a child Juliet failed to recognize that her aunt and her friends had been ahead of their time. Now a free thinking adult, Juliet mourns the loss of her aunt. When she finds Aunt Ophelia's diary, she vows to do something scandalous to honor her role model.<br />A professional party planner, Juliet receives inspiration while planning a birthday party for Cole Matheson. His brothers assure her of Cole's party animal nature, so when the scheduled stripper comes down ill, Juliet steps into the role, fulfilling a wildly daring fantasy. Too much booze and sexual attraction lead Cole to a night in Juliet arms. But his brothers lied. Rather than a party animal, Cole plays conservatively with his sexuality and with his heart. When he wants to get to know the woman he shared the night with, she tries to bolt. Only fast thinking and a white lie will convince this woman to give him a chance, but only truth and steadfastness  will get him a chance at forever.  <br />Author Jamie Sobrato excels my expectations of Harlequin's Blaze line in SOME KIND OF SEXY. The role reversal with Juliet seeking a fling and Cole wanting forever provides an interesting plot twist. But Juliet comes across as amazingly convincing and sincere, with a secretly soft center that make her character both bodacious and vulnerable. In many ways, Juliet is the scandalous kind of heroine we all secretly yearn to be. She revels in her sexuality, daringly living her fantasies and vowing to remain single. Conversely, scrumptious hero Cole does not do one night stands. His determination to spend time with Juliet forces compromises with unforeseeably disastrous conclusions. Juliet's assistant,a culinary wizard and lovely gay man, provides a wonderful counterpoint - I would love to see him pop again in a later book!  In addition, the subplot sparkles with a mature couple struggling to revitalize their relationship. The forty-year-old Delia was once a scandalous woman herself and will inspire the wild child in all of us. I sincerely hope that Sobrato has more scandalous women waiting in the wings! An absolutely fabulous read, SOME KIND OF SEXY earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2004-05-11
675215:US	49693975	R1QAYN136O2QD7	0373691718	308412239	It Should Happen To You	Books	4	0	0	N	N	From &quot;The Bachelorette Pact&quot; series - Highly recommended	A single girl's worst nightmare comes true when astrophysicist Mickey Coleman sleeps with a coworker who videotapes their night together. Now he demands another night with Mickey or he will make the tape public. Rather than yield to such an outrageous ultimatum, Mickey decides to steal the tape. Unsuccessful on her own, Mickey hires a man with mob connections. <br />Until Mickey comes along, Dominic Corlucci values self-preservation at all costs. One slip and he could loose two years of work or his life. He agrees to help Mickey much against his better judgement, despite her obvious attempt at deception with her wigs and spandex. The result is scintillating romance that makes their toes curl, even as Dominic risks blowing his case. <br />Author Kathleen O'Reilly pens an engaging romance in IT SHOULD HAPPEN TO YOU. Quirky characterizations add zest to a fun tale that combines comedy and intrigue in a light mix readers will treasure. Both Mickey and Dominic are forced to think outside the box, yet manage to still remain to their characters. Indeed, Mickey's love of the stars puts a light in her eye that Dominic cannot walk away from, despite his better judgement. An engaging read, IT SHOULD HAPPEN TO YOU makes an excellent, light read that comes highly recommended.	2004-05-09
678653:US	49693975	R1G3XNEOYEVDLK	0373791356	819516233	The Fantasy Factor	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Sequel to The Sex Solution � Recommended	As friends gather at Cadillac's most notorious honky-tonk, Sarah Buchanan sips diet coke and recalls her free-spirited youth. The death of a much beloved friend transformed the group's life, and Sarah went from wild child to the model of decorum over night. She took on the family business, forgetting her plan to escape the small town, and buried herself in good works and pleasing her grandmother. But when bad boy rodeo rider Houston Jericho returns to town and they cross paths at the honky-tonk, Sarah quickly rediscovers her desire for the wilder side of life.<br />A soft porn video made the rounds of the high school twelve years ago. Houston has never forgot how Sarah propositioned him, suggesting they try each of the seven erotic ideas presented. They made it through the first memorable four before Sarah changed forever. Despite the passage of time, Houston has never forgotten making love to her, and when she proposes that they finish the last scenes together, he leaps at the opportunity. But when passion is satisfied, both Sarah and Houston may have to reevaluate their expectations and needs.<br />In THE FANTASY FACTOR, sizzling chemistry somehow looses the glow of spontaneity demonstrated in the previous release, THE SEX SOLUTION, feeling a bit forced despite the terrific premise. Perhaps Sarah's rigidity and predictable capitulation is to blame considering her total devotion to her good girl image. Her restrictive lifestyle sharply contrasts her previous bad girl image, and while Houston is certainly the right bad boy to bring her back to life, there are few surprises to keep the reader reading for more than erotic sex scenes. Perhaps the author fell victim to a looming deadline, or writing the series of books in too short of a time. However, for readers who like an exciting premise and excellent erotica, THE FANTASY SEX FACTOR is worth perusing. THE FANTASY FACTOR comes recommended.	2004-05-06
681232:US	49693975	R10WTB78Y8EH94	0373273576	282536195	Shock Waves (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1287)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very highly recommended	From the first moment of their first encounter along the James, Brenna Scott knows that designer suits concealed Ethan Carrington's hard body and relentless dedication. Her dreams have led to believe that the federal prosecutor is in danger from Jorak Zhukov, a man who has targeted the Carrington family. She cannot help wondering what it would be like if he turned the intensity of his force of will from revenge to focus on her. Unfortunately, Ethan disbelieves her psychic visions, assuming that she acts the part of an innocent to win his confidence.<br />At that first encounter, Ethan had a niggling feeling that they had met before. Ethan already knows the danger he faces from Zhukov. When Ethan and Brenna are kidnapped together shortly after they meet, Ethan is convinced she is working for Zhukov. They are transported to a palatial estate in Mexico, a place Brenna knows well from her visions. In her dreams, Ethan dies here. Now caught in a game she does not understand and falling in love with a man she barely knows, Brenna must trust a man who does not trust her even as their passion threatens to blaze out of control - and may be used against them. <br />Author Jenna Mills pens yet another great read in SHOCK WAVES. A great believer in a metaphysical world that eludes ordinary senses, I adore series romance that dares to include some sort of paranormal element. Brenna's gift for precognition comes with the terrible perils and confusion that inevitably accompany such gifts when reading for oneself. Her deep ethical need to risk all to share her information, however tenuous, lends her character a memorable strength. Ethan's skepticism, while somewhat predictable, also seems somewhat inevitable. The clash of their value systems lends the novel a strong underlying conflict while the suspense elements keeps the plot moving quickly. The result is a hauntingly memorable read that comes very highly recommended.	2004-05-04
682605:US	49693975	R1DOQ44YY67QG9	0373791364	401830828	Bared	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Highly recommended	Twin sister Amber Willis travels the world playing with men's hearts and baring her beautiful body to the camera. When Amber cannot live up to her responsibilities, however, she calls in Queen Emma, as she calls her sister. Emma usually buries herself in her job, penning the scripts for soap operas when not rescuing her sister. When Amber calls asking her to step in for a modeling job, posing for a calendar of sensual poses, Emma steps in for her. <br />It does not take long for Rafe Delcantro to realize that this complaint delight cannot be the capricious Amber. But he takes his time revealing his knowledge. He struggles to control his wild attraction to this stand-in model because her script writing still ties her to the Hollywood scene he seeks to escape. Indeed, Rafe is ready to retire from fashion model photography after this gig, find a nice girl, and settle down. Emma is completely contrary to his preconceived ideal, yet he cannot seem to fight his attraction. Perhaps a brief fling is in order. <br />Jill Shalvis' gift for penning heated romance sizzles in BARED. Passion and light amusement combine in a tempting, fast paced read readers will love. Moreover, Shalvis' twist on the twin plot avoids the clichés common among such plot devices while playing on the light deception with marvelous effect. As a result, Emma and Rafe become remarkably sympathetic, convincing characters whose growth sparkles. As Emma bares all, she finds that exposure reveals needs and desires that only Rafe can fill. Fans of Shalvis' BACK IN THE BEDROOM will certainly be pleased to see Rafe get his own story. BARED comes highly recommended.	2004-05-03
686878:US	49693975	R2PSPWEE3BFFR0	037371193X	93450105	The Brother Quest: The Luchetti Brothers (Harlequin Superromance No. 1193)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	From the �The Luchetti Brothers � series	Colin Luchetti never stays in one place long, believing he does not belong anywhere. Staying on the move keeps him from feeling out of place. As a photojournalist the only thing he wants he can have; that is, seeing the world and then writing about it. So two months after Army Special Forces brother disappears, Colin receives a note and goes to Wind Lake, Minnesota to investigate the only clue he has - an address that leads to a day care center. Marlie Anderson had been his brother's pen pal but knows nothing about his disappearance. With no other leads, Collin sticks around for a while hoping something will lead to his brother. <br />Twenty-five year old Marlie named her daycare Chasing Rainbows. In a town where everyone knows everyone, and with dreams that do not lead beyond the city limits, Marlie fails to recognize her own beauty, both outward and inward. Her generous curves more than capture the imagination of Colin, and her passion for living touches his heart. But Colin worries that his brother's interest predates his own, and a brother should never poach on another brother's territory. Yet this rolling stone finds a life that is strangely compelling in this tiny town, discovering that even a rolling stone occasionally must come to rest. <br />Author Lori Handeland pens an endearing tale in THE BROTHER QUEST. The disappearing hamster, dalmations, and children lend the story charm and humor. That a letter would lead Colin to Wind Lake seems reasonable, but the tenuous hope that lingering might lead to a clue to his brother's disappearance seems to stretch believability a bit. Nevertheless, the changes that Marlie and her children inflict upon him make for an absolutely delightful read. Marlie's game show junkie mother likewise lends a provocative yet humorous note. This walk on the lighter side will keep readers amused as to the twists love can take, making THE BROTHER QUEST come highly recommended.	2004-04-29
689382:US	49693975	R3U3GZU4459V8Q	0373711964	539864345	A Cowboy Summer (Harlequin Superromance No. 1196)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	From the �Home on the Ranch� series	Eight-year-old Zoey does not mind emotional blackmail to convince her mother to keep her promise of visiting her family's ranch. Anne Fraser's mother passed away before she fulfilled her lifelong dream of travel, and her husband has vowed to take her along those planned byways post-humorously.  Anne's stepfather has a grandson, Will Cavanaugh, whom he also persuades to help out during tourist season. Despite her concerns regarding her daughter's serious asthma and her unresolved attraction for Will, Anne puts her life on hold to go to Silver Rose for the summer.<br />Will comes home to take care of the ranch while Anne handles the guest operations. Anne still finds the one who gave her that all-important first kiss wildly attractive. Now virtual strangers, Anne and Will have become business partners for the summer. With his rodeo career on hold for the summer while he heals from yet another injury, Will finds surprising satisfaction in the operation of Silver Rose. Perhaps the influence of a spirited sprite and her sexy mother might a bit to do with his attitude. But regardless of their attraction, Anne and Will have virtually nothing in common and career considerations at the end of the summer. <br /> Author Debra Salonen has a gift for choosing unexpected characterizations to add zest to her narrative. In A COWBOY SUMMER showcases a remarkable young girl with the spirit of a warrior, the wonder of a tomboy, and the challenges of asthma Her bold adventurous nature lends the novel a strong sense of presence as she connects her mother back to her roots. Indeed, Anne grieves the loss of her mother, finding her touches in surprising detailed instructions for thinning garden carrots or in the stories of her generous heart reported by her mother's many friends. Moreover, Anne's journey to healing mirrors Will's as they both find courage to follow their hearts and a generous dose of fun in one busy eight-year-old. A COWBOY SUMMER comes highly recommended.	2004-04-28
714299:US	49693975	R1H8UMG2KTEDKB	0373791321	26445923	With This Fling	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Highly Recommended	Theirs is more than a power struggle between two strong personalities. Private investigators Harley Prince and Mac Gerard share a profound attraction - one she is not willing to act upon. Mac knows that he is in for the trouble of his life and he will break any rule to get Harley into bed. He thinks that a wild fling will satisfy his unbearable urge. But when an investigation brings them together twenty-four/seven, Mac gets more than he expected.<br />Harley unequivocally turns Mac down at every turn. She considers him a spoiled, rich boy and does not take him seriously. Eventually she yields, however, hoping that a night together will get him out of her system. Meanwhile, to catch a thief, Harley and Mac will have to go undercover, pretending to marry. But when the investigation is complete, someone has to risk their heart to learn if they can have a fling that will last a lifetime.<br />Author Jeanie London pens a delightful romp in WITH THIS FLING. Harley is a marvelous heroine with her lighthearted approach to affairs that sharply contrasts her professional image. Her determination to not yield to Mac gives him quite the run for his money. Mac knows his tactics are unfair, but will do anything to convince Harley to share her bed. A steamy, fun, sexy tale sure to please, WITH THIS FLING comes highly recommended.	2004-04-08
728546:US	49693975	R2EWP4OICD8DDT	0373750137	23942304	When Megan Smiles	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Highly recommended	Two years after his wife's death, single father Rafe Dagget is target of lots of nice women whose biological clocks tick away. His wife had been very sick with her pregnancy with the twins, and he consequently stepped away from the hands-on operations of Dagget Security, Inc. and started delegating and supervising. A phone call from a long time friend, however, puts rescues Rafe from his latest blind date and puts Rafe back in the day day-to-day work with a new name and an assumed identity. He puts the twin boys in the company day care and begins investigating a case of industrial espionage. He never expects to meet a woman like sexy lawyer Megan Gallagher or to have his fake identity get in the way.<br />Megan arrives at LynTech planning to prove her skills and land a promotion. Engaged for a month, she expects life to go according to her carefully laid plans. But when she arrives for a black tie dinner, security will not even let her onto the premises until she proves she is supposed to be there. The inauspicious introduction to Rafe does not bode well, especially when he makes her late. But Megan's disarming smile has a way of getting to Rafe, even if he perceives her judgements of an hourly worker to be unfair. Further, she hates him for being able to get to her. As a result, their volatile relationship certainly promises to rock both their worlds.<br />Author Mary Anne Wilson pens a charming romance in WHEN MEGAN SMILES. The strong character driven dynamics lend the novel an amusing, tender quality as Megan and Rafe struggle to discover the person beneath the façade. Rafe's love for his children, his positive memories of his deceased wife, and his protective streak make him a powerful and memorable hero. Megan oscillates between abrasive and vulnerable as she struggles to redefine her priorities, allowing for tremendous character growth. With lots of strong wonderful secondary characters and charming children, WHEN MEGAN SMILES comes highly recommended.	2004-03-28
728623:US	49693975	R3EQTXQCZS9CLJ	0373711891	712064398	Nothing Sacred: Shelter Valley Stories (Harlequin Superromance No. 1189)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Martha Moore's forty-something year old professor husband left her for a twenty-something old student. Consequently, she cannot help treating the new minister's sermon on love with cynicism. But David Cole Marks is the first minister in Shelter Valley not to hide behind his robe and his pulpit. He is determined to earn Martha's trust and confidence, patient with her even if he must pay for the transgressions of another man. Who better, he believes, given that he ministers because he carefully protects a secret that keeps him from marrying and having his own family.<br />Martha's twenty-year old daughter Ellen hitchhikes when she runs out of gas. Unthinkably for Shelter Valley, a stranger picks her up and rapes her. The shock ripples through the small town that once considered itself totally safe. Suddenly people find themselves locking doors and looking over their shoulders. Indeed, no one is left untouched, especially David, who suspects that the rape is tied to a much bigger crime wave that threatens to overwhelm the peace and serenity of Shelter Valley. Now he and Martha must combine their efforts to make a difference for the town they both love. <br />Author Tara Taylor Quinn captures the horrors of life as well as the power of faith and love to transcend all in NOTHING SACRED. Quinn deftly creates the painful nuances of a family devastated by infidelity and the loss of a father. The impact on the four children is profound from the eldest daughter whose determinate to not be a burden leads her to the wrong place at the wrong time to the teen daughter who seems bent on a path of self-destruction. Consequently, trust issues dominate this family and the minister determined to reach them. But his own painful past threatens to overwhelm the beauty of the place where he comes to find love and acceptance. Quinn does not shy away from the darker side of life, but she does balance with a promise of happiness. Both Martha and David are the kind of people we would all liketo know and would feel compassion for as they fight their individual demons. As they confront the disillusionment that nothing may be sacred, their transformation will touch readers deeply. One of the most powerful Superromances I have had the privilege to review, NOTHING SACRED earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2004-03-28
728825:US	49693975	R3HOX6BQUXRO29	0373441843	952986036	Life According To Lucy	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Highly Recommended	Theirs is more than a power struggle between two strong personalities. Private investigators Harley Prince and Mac Gerard share a profound attraction - one she is not willing to act upon. Mac knows that he is in for the trouble of his life and he will break any rule to get Harley into bed. He thinks that a wild fling will satisfy his unbearable urge. But when an investigation brings them together twenty-four/seven, Mac gets more than he expected.<br />Harley unequivocally turns Mac down at every turn. She considers him a spoiled, rich boy and does not take him seriously. Eventually she yields, however, hoping that a night together will get him out of her system. Meanwhile, to catch a thief, Harley and Mac will have to go undercover, pretending to marry. But when the investigation is complete, someone has to risk their heart to learn if they can have a fling that will last a lifetime.<br />Author Jeanie London pens a delightful romp in WITH THIS FLING. Harley is a marvelous heroine with her lighthearted approach to affairs that sharply contrasts her professional image. Her determination to not yield to Mac gives him quite the run for his money. Mac knows his tactics are unfair, but will do anything to convince Harley to share her bed. A steamy, fun, sexy tale sure to please, WITH THIS FLING comes highly recommended.	2004-03-28
729161:US	49693975	RYYG8UZAR61KC	0373791305	394267948	Take Me Twice	Books	3	6	7	N	N	From the Men to Do series - Recommended	Once Laine Blackwell had belonged to him body and soul until Grayson Alexander callously threw it away on stolen kisses with someone else. After the emotional maelstrom passed, they had even managed a fun friendship that included a lot of terrific sex until Grayson moved from New York to Chicago. But he still kept tabs on Laine through mutual friends. When he moves back to the area, Grayson decides that a part-time apartment in the city would be conducive to business, and Laine just happens to be in need of a roommate. He is certainly more than willing to pick up where they left off.<br />Laine knows that perfect solutions and obvious choices have a way of turning on her. But she does not have many other viable options if she wants this summer off before she starts graduate school in the fall. She has marvelous plans of lessons in skydiving, French, yoga, and cooking for the summer. Even more importantly, she wants a man, or men, to do before she gets returns to the world of hard work. So full time rent and part time cohabitation is the perfect solution if she can keep her libido under control. After all, she has no intentions of risking her heart on Grayson again.<br />One of the most exciting elements in the Men to Do miniseries is the element of risk that comes into play when a woman boldly chooses a man \\"to do.\\" Isabel Sharpe, rather than exploiting the titillating possibilities, brings together old lovers instead, thereby taking some of the element of surprise and suspense out of the equation. Once Grayson wears down Laine's resistance, the conclusion seems rather obvious. On the other hand, despite their shared history of sexual satisfaction, Grayson's fear of commitment, even to next week, does add a bit of complexity to their situation. For readers who enjoy the tease and reunion of old lovers, Sharpe pens a lightly entertaining read perfect for a lazy day. TAKE ME TWICE comes recommended.	2004-03-28
742850:US	49693975	R1XOZS6I7UZZIX	0505525704	478056039	Wild Highland Rose	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Very highly recommended	Cameron briefly rouses to the sound of the hospital machines that keep him alive before the light draws him to another place. When he awakens, he finds himself at the foot of a rockslide without his memory. Cameron knows he is not part of the fifteenth century in which he awakens, but he cannot recall the life he left behind. Yet a recurring nightmare of car accident and a screaming woman insure his discontent with his new life and his need for resolution.<br />In the meantime, Cameron finds himself caught in intricate plots of revenge between highland clans. The man whose body he occupies is married to Marjory, who detests him. She recognizes that her husband's survival of the rockslide is miraculous, but she certainly does not suspect the truth of his identity. Nevertheless, Marjory is terribly suspicious of his radical changes in behavior, especially toward her. She certainly does not expect to fall in love with Cameron. <br />Author Dee Davis has a gift for penning romances that are impossible to put down. Switching from her usual romantic suspense to time travel, Davis displays the range of her talent in WILD HIGHLAND ROSE. Interestingly, Davis bases the premises of the novel on a historical concept that contemporary readers will initially find shocking. Between Cameron's inability to pinpoint what has happened to him and other people's reactions, readers will discover plenty of amusing entertainment. Moreover, Davis deftly captures the painful difficulty a woman married to her enemy must face because Cameron is so good to her. Add this one to your keeper shelf! WILD HIGHLAND ROSE comes very highly recommended.	2004-03-17
742911:US	49693975	R3VBK496G8EQEB	0373273452	620024215	Crossfire (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1275)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Sequel to The Perfect Target - Very highly recommended	Two years have passed since passion exploded and seven hours of lovemaking ended with feelings of betrayal between Elizabeth Carrington and Wesley \\"Hawk\\" Monroe. One mistake had unraveled Elizabeth's well thought out plans for her life. Now her father insists that the bodyguard come back to protect her again when an international criminal threatens revenge on the Carringtons. But when Wesley attempts to move Elizabeth to a safe place, their plane crashes. <br />Once Wesley had believed that a woman of refinement like Elizabeth could love a man like him. He believed that the cool façade concealed a fabulously passionate woman. Now it does not matter. He attends to do his job and walk away with his heart and his self-esteem intact. Once Elizabeth had tried to strip away Wesley's roughness and crudeness to find the man inside. What she found had rocked the foundations of her world. Soon Wesley and Elizabeth will discover that neither of them can just walk away again. <br />Author Jenna Mills pens an exhilarating ending in CROSSFIRE that readers will find difficult to put down. From the gripping beginning to the last mind-blowing page, Mills creates an intriguing world of danger. The excellent plotting keeps tension high and sensuality burning as Wesley and Elizabeth struggle with the possibilities of second chances and extreme danger. While following the familiar device of opposites attracting, Wesley and Elizabeth are strong, appealing characters. Wesley is coarse and brash, thriving on adrenaline and risk, living outside the lines. Elizabeth is a rule follower, a maker of plans and a woman who meets her family's expectations. Together they become something far more than what they are apart. As a result, they are incredibly memorable. Daring, unexpected and sexy, CROSSFIRE comes very highly recommended.	2004-03-17
749223:US	49693975	RED9CMVHF252F	0373750110	121427097	The Wedding Rescue	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Highly recommended	Alaskan bush pilot Tanner Davenport flies home to Kentucky to stop his brother from marrying neighbor Savannah MacKay. Savannah has never stuck to anything and Tanner does not believe her marriage to his brother can possibly last. When he shares his concerns with Savannah's older sister Charity, she promises to help him stop the wedding, while plotting to ensure that it actually goes off without a hitch.<br />It has been eight years since Tanner and Charity have seen one another and the attraction between them is palpable. But he loves flying, whales and the aurora borealis. Charity loves horses and is raising a possibly Kentucky Derby contender. Unfortunately, a mysterious illness threatens Charity's plans. So while she struggles to keep her horse business thriving, Charity strives to keep Tanner as far away from Savannah as possible for the next two weeks until the wedding takes place.<br />Author Dianne Castell takes a well used plot and adds her own flair to create a freshly delightful tale in THE WEDDING RESCUE. A well rounded cast of characters keeps the pages turning swiftly as Tanner and Savannah threaten to set the bluegrass state ablaze. Neither Tanner nor Charity is prepared to deal with the impossibly strong attraction between them. With a rich background and delightful subplots that comes alive with Castell's deft pen, THE WEDDING RESCUE comes highly recommended.	2004-03-12
749515:US	49693975	R2WKIYNWXB9YGF	0373711883	194633976	The Prodigal Cousin : The Calvert Cousins  (Harlequin Superromance No. 1188)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	From The Calvert Cousins series	The first woman in sixteen months that reminds Sam Lockwood that he is a man just happens to be his mother's daughter. Never mind they are not biologically related, the irony is almost too much. Sam only came to Bardill's Ridge to meet his birth mother Eliza Calvert. When he and his two daughters arrive at the bed and breakfast, the Calverts extend a warm welcome to the Lockwoods, little suspecting the secrets that will shortly come to light. He desperately wants his daughters to be accepted by Eliza even if she chooses to reject him.<br />Eliza's adopted daughter Molly had a rough childhood, paying penance as an adult for painful choices made years ago. She cannot have children and as she watches her adopted cousins marrying and having children, feels like she will never have the family they each are building. Then Sam arrives with three daughters, widowed, searching for a family for the girls in case something happens to him. But at twenty-five, Molly is too old to accept a new brother. Despite Molly's determination to disregard her feelings for her mother's son, however, love seems determined to find a way.<br />Author Anna Adams deftly captures the ironies and emotional conundrums of adoption situations In THE PRODIGAL COUSIN. The need for family, for acceptance and for connections creates powerful motivation for Sam and his daughters to fit in with the Calverts. Molly's innate feeling of alienation captures the need for self-acceptance and self-forgiveness. Birth mother Eliza becomes a stunningly memorable secondary character with her necessary losses and heart rendering choices. Indeed, Adams boldly portrays the rejection and broken trust that makes revealing painful truths a life shattering, and life altering experience for all concerned. THE PRODIGAL COUSIN comes highly recommended.	2004-03-12
751208:US	49693975	R2JJAI3CJ96ICT	0821775014	572340782	He Said No (Gentleman's Club, Book 2)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	From the Gentleman�s Club series	Both Norton Russell Foxhass, Earl of Granby, and Catherine Hardwick are cynical about the opposite sex, believing they are not to be trusted. Granby further likes variety too much to content himself with a single woman for more than a few months; that is, until Catherine nearly runs him over riding a beautiful stallion called Storm Dancer. Women usually graviate to his reputation for being a vigorous lover as well as for his wealth and his title. So Catherine's determination to keep her distance, despite their scintillating chemistry, captures his attention.<br />Catherine is perfectly happy living in Wichcombe, far from London's labyrinth of silly rules and foolish gossip. Unfortunately, her father wishes her to be married and based on what she has seen, women do not find happiness in marriage. Full of spirit and not afraid to say what she thinks, Catherine proves to be irresistible for Granby. He becomes determined to buy Storm Dancer from her father and also to know Catherine's passion first hand, even he must wed her to do so.<br />With intriguing flair, author Patricia Waddell pens a must read regency in HE SAID NO. Irreverent humor, unexpected levity and sparkling wit all find voice from fresh characterizations and subtly unexpected plotting. Granby and Catherine, as well as marvelous cast of secondary characters, are filled with the joys and foibles that bring each characterization vividly alive. Fierce independence and powerful desire combine in this amusing read that belongs on the keeper shelf. Guaranteed to win the reader's heart, HE SAID NO comes very highly recommended.	2004-03-10
752072:US	49693975	R2C8ZI1IUDRB4R	0373750153	252345041	Romancing the Tycoon (The Colby Agency)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The Colby Agency - Highly recommended	Personal assistant Amy Wells desperately wants to become an investigator for The Colby Agency. When her boss asks her to personally deliver an investigative report to a client, a series of coincidences and errors lands Amy an opportunity to prove her investigative abilities. Oil moguls Winterborne and Calhoun, always fierce competitors, plan to join their dynasties through an arranged marriage. Mr. Winterborne has hired the agency to check out John Robert Calhoun IV. Amy cannot resist a peak at the report, which proves to be squeaky clean except for the very last page which indicates possible connections to mob activity. <br />A case of mistaken identity affords Amy an opportunity to prove her worth to The Colby Agency. She intends to do a little personal investigation to ascertain if there can be any truth to the allegations. While she cannot prove wrong doing, Amy falls hard for the sexy John. Certainly her supposed reputation does not match the beautiful, seemingly genuine woman who arrives on his ranch. Suddenly an arranged marriage is beginning to look like a happily forever proposition. But when the weekend ends, the truth must come out and Amy faces the possibility of loosing both her fledgling career and the man she could love for a lifetime.<br />Author Debra Webb puts together mistaken identity and an arranged marriage in an unlikely combination that readers will find impossible to put down in ROMANCING THE TYCOON. Amy and John are engaging characters that find love only through a quirk of fate. Webb has a gift for weaving an entrancing tale out of improbable events to create a tale both tender and passionate. A quick read fans will treasure, ROMANCING THE TYCOON comes highly recommended.	2004-03-10
752315:US	49693975	RK1MJIARIWM3D	0380815680	637701809	Seen By Moonlight	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Very highly recommended	Brought to the brink of bankruptcy following her father's illness and death, Annabelle Halleston agrees to honor a bargain struck between her father and Royce Kincaid's father. It allows her to save the family home while assuring her brother's futures. In addition to a few other demands, however, she changes their wedding day to April Fool's Day. <br />Royce counters with his own expectations regarding inheritance of his property in the event of his death or the dissolution of their marriage should he survive the war. Indeed, should he survive the war, Royce intends to go west and wishes no further contact with Annabelle. It does not take long for Royce to realize that if he does not die in the coming war, he would live to regret this marriage.<br />Author Kathleen Eschenburg recreates the beauty and the grace of the south before the Civil War with all possible poignancy and pain of that lost era. She deftly exposes the flaws of slaveholders, for example, yet they can be ethical, sympathetic and terribly flawed. The result is a story that springs vividly alive with the tragic nuances, triumphs and perplexities that makes it truly believable. From the main characters to the slaves, these are characters readers come to care for. One of the most entertaining Civil War stories I have had the privilege to review, SEEN BY MOONLIGHT comes very highly recommended.	2004-03-10
753072:US	49693975	R11XIQVBYZN343	0373711840	12889377	A Cowboy at Heart (Harlequin Superromance No. 1184)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	From You, Me &amp; The Kids series	Country music star Melinda Kimbrough, known to her fans as Misty, disappears after a sell-out concert, determined to break the stranglehold her manager has over her life. Now twenty-six, Wes has managed her life since her father died when she was sixteen. The open-ended contract they have is virtually unbreakable but Melinda needs out before she breaks down. With millions in bank accounts she cannot touch, Melinda resorts to living on the streets of LA until she hears about a ranch for teens needing a new start.<br />Linc Parker might be a financial wizard to the stars, but it was not enough to save his teen sister from suicide when an audition left her desperately depressed. To make recompense to the past, he buys Rascal Ranch sight unseen. He expects a working refuge but finds three abandoned wards of the state and bunkhouses with no heat and the entire operation filthy. Before he can even decided what to do about the three young children, five teens arrive in desperate need of a bed. He quickly realizes that Melinda, nicknamed Randi, is no teen and on the run. But does not suspect that she is part of the world of entertainers and celebrities that he has come to despise. <br />Author Roz Denny Fox has established a solid reputation for stories that touch the heart. Inspired by an overheard conversation in which a star admitted that life at the top is not always rosy, A COWBOY AT HEART captures the challenges of life in the spotlight. With her deft storytelling skill, Fox creates a memorable tale of healing and redemption for a powerful heroine and a man bold enough to learn to love her. The result is a vividly realized tale with remarkable characterizations that cannot help but touch the heart. A COWBOY AT HEART comes very highly recommended.	2004-03-09
760776:US	49693975	RW0R9SF55G1SS	0373711859	170713717	Operation: Second Chance: The Special Agents (Harlequin Superromance No. 1185)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	From The Special Agents series -- Very highly recommended	After five years of prison, T.J. Cauthen has a plan to exonerate himself after having lost his career, his honor and his daughter. Double crossed by his coworkers with the DEA and framed for a crime he did not comment, T. J. intends to prove his innocence. When released from prison, T.J. travels by bus to Silver Springs, Wyoming, with a cheap duffel bag of second hand cloths, planning to investigate Abby Hillard, the wife of the man who landed him in prison. But from their first meeting, Abby is nothing like the sleek, wealthy woman in his newspaper photograph. <br />Indeed, T.J. immediatelyb confronts the question of where Oren Hillard's money could have gone. Abby's boarding house is in need of significant maintenance, and she obviously scrimps to get by. Moreover, the glitzy look of the society newspaper photograph does not match the gently humor, or the personal concern that she exhibits toward her boarders. In addition, despite his determination to clear his name, T.J. quickly finds himself facing difficult choices when his brother can no longer look after his daughter Megan. Now his investigation could put her at risk, and her pain regarding his five-year absence is palpable, especially since she does not know he was prison. Between his ten-year old daughter and money launders, T.J. will have his hands full, especially when he falls for the disconcerting Abby as well. <br />Author Roxanne Rustand pens a heart-rendering tale of loss, opportunity and second chances in OPERATION: SECOND CHANCE. T.J. is a fascinating blend of determination and compassion, strength and concern, but it is his vulnerability and need to learn to trust that becomes the heart of his story. In addition, his remorse over the pain his past has caused his daughter provides him a endearing quality that readers will love. Abby's determination to earn her independence from her family by finishing school and creating a new life matches T.J.'s tenacity. Ultimately, they prove to be memorable characters with their remarkable ethics and deep passion. A beautifully rendered story that belongs on the keeper shelf, OPERATION: SECOND CHANCE comes very highly recommended.	2004-03-03
760873:US	49693975	R3ETWMQ0C6SYYB	0373750056	182024863	Rescued by a Rancher: Texas Sweethearts (Harlequin American Romance Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Highly recommended	Tracy Lynn Randolph and her mother planned her future just hours before her mother succumbed to ovarian cancer. Now she's about to turn thirty, and Tracy chooses to take destiny in hand since prince charming has yet to appear. But after successfully utilizing a sperm bank and then proudly announcing the good news to her father, he demands the name of the father before he keels over with a heart attack. <br />Lincoln Slade witnesses the disastrous encounter, stepping in and offering his name as father to the baby. Linc then helps with CPR to help save Tracy's father's life. With her father about to run for the senate and demanding that things be put right while he's in the hospital, Tracy and Linc find themselves at the justice of the peace the very next day. Having already lost one parent prematurely, Tracy will do whatever is necessary. Little does she suspect that Linc's intentions are more than just honorable. <br />Author Mindy Neff brings together new technology and old fashioned values in RESCUED BY A RANCHER. Tracy's loss of her mother and fear of loosing her remaining parent provides powerful motivation for pleasing her father. Linc's noble price-like rescue conceals a heart long smitten by a girl he did not believe he could ever have. His bad boy background provides the perfect foil for the mayor's daughter. With a delightful secondary cast, readers will be hoping for another Texas Sweetheart story soon. RESCUED BY A RANCHER comes highly recommended.	2004-03-03
761230:US	49693975	R2X0H28QEFLIIS	0743465067	798136749	Highlander Unbound	Books	4	10	14	N	N	Regency Romance -Highly recommended	A family legend passed down through the centuries transforms a token of love into a curse. Just before her execution for infidelity, Anice of Lockhart arranged to have an emerald hid in the belly of a small, ugly carving. Now rumor holds that no Lockhart woman will find love without facing the Devil. Knowledge of the jewel died, leaving only rumor of fortune. In 1816, Navy Navy Captain Liam Lockhart sets out to recover the beastie from the English Lockharts, hoping to save his Scottish family from loosing their home and property. <br />Liam's careful plans eventually lead him to the English Lockharts. But while in London he rents a room where he meets nine-year-old Natalie, who expertly slips into his room for frequent visits despite his protestations. Eventually their acquaintance leads him to her mother Ellen. Liam falls in love with Ellen, but her desperation to provide a new life for her daughter leads to drastic measures when she steals the beatie herself. Liam vows to follow Ellen and to retrieve the beastie for his family as well as to avenge his honor. <br />Author Julia Lodon pens a riveting frolic in HIGHLANDER UNBOUND. A delightful plot will hold the reader enthralled as Liam disposes of mice and picks roses in Hyde Park. On the one hand he is incredibly charming and on the other hand his brashness provides wonderful entertainment. Ellen's desperation will strike a cord with those sympathetic to her plight. Certainly Liam and Ellen find themselves at seemingly irreconcilable crossroads, resulting in a marvelously told tale. Natalie proves a bit too precocious to be plausible at times; nonetheless, she still adds a wonderful humorous element. HIGHLANDER UNBOUND comes highly recommended.	2004-03-03
761655:US	49693975	R28UL0LIVEHM5B	0373245882	394089998	Their Baby Bond (Silhouette Special Edition No. 1588)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Enchanting! Very highly recommended	Victoria Phillips eagerly anticipates the birth of her baby, even if she is not carrying the child. Instead, a pregnant teen has agreed to allow Victoria to adopt her child. With the expected day less than a month away, Victoria prepares a nursery, inviting a contractor to provide a bid. She never expects Jake Galeno to show up. Years ago he took her to her senior prom and she has never completely gotten over her teen crush. But the years have not necessarily been kind to him.<br />For reasons he refuses to reveal, Jake has traded his gun for a hammer. But this a job he best finish quickly if he wants to put an end to sleepless nights, vivid dreams and a hungry need for Tori. She is a forever kind of girl and with a baby coming certainly would want a wild fling, which is all that he has to offer. Albuquerque saw to that when he was still on the force. Indeed, Jake believes that he has been broken into a thousand pieces and his is a solitary road.<br />Author Karen Rose Smith brings her enchanting gift for weaving memorable romance to THEIR BABY BOND. Smith does not shy away from tackling the most challenging of emotional situations, which presents her tales an opportunity for poignancy and healing that has become her trademark. Certainly, THEIR BABY BOND showcases this gift with an unwed mother and a hero with a painful secret. Add this one to you keeper shelf. THEIR BABY BOND comes very highly recommended.	2004-03-03
761950:US	49693975	R3OB3WILR4DC84	0804119945	375303989	Mad about Mia	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Highly recommended	Mia DeNero has made some unorthodox career choices in her life like driving a bulldozer on a highway construction crew. When she hangs her new diploma on the wall, Mia is determined to make a success of her new business Guardian Angel Protective Services. So when geeky Niccolo Caruso shows up in her office offering three thousand a month for her services, she gladly offers him a her apartment couch while he finishes writing his book, an expose of the Mafia. <br />Mia does not know that Nick is actually working undercover for the FBI Organized Crime Investigation Unit. Nor does she realize that she lives live right above Mama Sophia's Restaurant which will allow Nick to keep close watch on his suspect who frequents the establishment. Also, Mia's sister is married to the Russo family and will provide an opportunity to interview family members and obtain other information he would not otherwise have access to. <br />Nick chooses Mia because she is naive and she is new to the bodyguard business. But Mia's inexperience does not make her unobservant. Once they fall in love, Mia may not overlook Nick's deceitfulness. Moreover, Nick is usually up front about women's place in his life. They are for friendship and sex, and never long term. So learning that he does not need her protection, but is using her bodes ill for Mia, regardless of Nick's sex appeal.<br />Fans of Mia Criswell will love her newest romantic comedy. While elements of intrigue underlie this delightful read, it is the marvelous characterizations that make MAD ABOUT MIA such a treasure. With Criswell's characteristically spunky heroine and sexy hero, MAD ABOUT MIA provides plenty of amusement. Although she is a bit flighty, Mia's determination and tenacity challenge Nick's determination to protect his investigation. Moreover, the background draws on the best of Baltimore's Little Italy, resulting in a flavorful read. A quick and entertaining story that fans will not want to miss, MAD ABOUT MIA comes highly recommended.	2004-03-02
762154:US	49693975	R34FA36FPXNN55	0316805874	981705887	Charming Grace:  A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Grace Bagshaw Vance does not hesitate to wield a shotgun or dump gravel on the only paved road that leads to Stone Senterra's mountain production headquarters. Widowed, this thirty-four year-old ex-beauty queen and former host of a popular morning show on Atlanta TV earns the classic southern pronouncement, &quot;She's crazy, bless her heart.&quot; Her husband Harp, a GBI agent, gave his life to prevent a serial killer from blowing up Piedmont Hospital in Atlanta. His status as a national hero garnered the attention of action-movie superstar Stone Senterra who plans to direct the movie about Harp's life and death. Unfortunately, with such blockbuster films to his credit as Viper Platoon and Death Squad Patrol, Stone's ability to keep his outrageous tendencies under control seems doubtful. <br />Stone's bodyguard Boone Noleene proves to be the only hindrance in Grace's plans. She gracefully handles Stone's outrageous sister who stars in his movies and oversees publicity. She forces Stone changing locations to Alabama, and she strongly affects those who star in the movie. But Boone and she quickly develop a passion and an impossible desire that neither can afford to fulfill. Beneath the surface they are surprising alike, concealing poignant and painful pasts. They are equally loyal and equally determined as well, despite the fact that Grace intends to stop the movie Boone's boss vows to film. <br />CHARMING GRACE becomes a poignant and provocative account of the power of the media to reshape the world according to the price of a ticket. Grace struggle to preserve the memory of her husband even as Stone's careless exposure becomes far less than the truth. Her instant attraction to his bodyguard lends profound shades of grey to a tale that is at once simple and yet deeply complex. Furthermore, outrageous characterizations and marvelous witticism combines for a fast-paced read that readers will find impossible to put down. Fans who adored Deborah Smith's previous release, SWEET HUSH, will easily recognize her remarkable style as both lyrical and mesmerizing. Indeed, Smith's voice has certainly made an indelible imprint and although I had forgotten reviewing Smith's previous novel, I immediately recognized her wonderful authorial voice before finishing the first few pages. CHARMING GRACE earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2004-03-02
763043:US	49693975	R1QCY5333IWE8	0743477294	999724833	French Twist	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Bon Voyage novel - Highly recommended	Nick Jarrett earned the name of the Scorpion for his mark when he absconded with the treasures of the very wealthy. His exploits disappear from newspapers, however, when FBI agent Tristan finally captures him in the act. But Nick makes a deal with Tristan to protect his family. Now he is known as Luc Tremont, working undercover as a security consultant while helping the FBI stop other thieves. His current assignment brings him to a Versailles exhibit showcasing the recently discovered set of vases made by King Louis XIV's mistress. Only now someone has appropriated his old identity, claiming to be the legendary Scorpion. <br />American professor Janine Coulter desperately wanted this job as curator for the Pompadour Plum vases. She and her mentor had spent the bulk of their careers working to prove the vases existed only for him to die just before the exhibit opened. Although authorities have ruled his death a suicide, Janine does not believe it. She disagrees with Luc's determination to limit the public's access to the vases. She does not know that Luc intends to use the vases as bait to capture the Scorpion copycat. And when the vases are stolen, she insists upon accompanying him chasing the thieves across France - falling in love only seems to complicate the situation for both of them. <br />FRENCH TWIST begins with an intriguing plot, but the pacing slows after someone steals the vases. As tension increases between Janine and Nick, neither welcomes their mutual chemistry given their equally mutual suspicion. While St. Claire occasionally reveals too much before her hero and heroine figure it out, the strength of characterizations certainly compensates. Indeed, St. Claire demonstrates an ability to create a strong sense of background from the beauty of Versailles to the lushness of Burgundy. FRENCH TWIST comes highly recommended.	2004-03-02
769012:US	49693975	R35Y7M5FJ0VHIF	0373441835	333500875	Hung Up On You	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very highly recommended	Adrienne Kelly wants hot, wild, abandoned sex, but she will not be getting any from her fiancé, whose focus on a wedding date does not include nooky. When Ari's graduate thesis, &quot;The Effects of Telephone Answering Systems on Psychological and Physical Well Being&quot; gets published by Psychology Forum, she should be celebrating. Instead, a rag magazine picks up the article, transforming it into a slam on the telephone answering machine industry. As a result, her status conscious fiance decides they should take a break from each other and her dream job is withdrawn.<br />Then Simon Masterson, owner of SimonSays, a company that develops business-answering systems, personally takes Ari to task for downgrading the telephone answering business. His company's latest invention, called Cindy, was expressly designed to reduce stress and be user friendly, but with bad press like Ari's article, Cindy may be obsolete before release. So he demands retraction of Ari's theory and attempts to hire her to evaluate his new system in exchange for helping her out with her latest family crisis.<br />Author Holly Jacob's flair for creating wildly amusing tales dazzles in HUNG UP ON YOU. Opposites attract with outrageous fun and hilarity as Jacob creates a cast of characters that will keep the reader in stitches over their antics, even as the serious undertone will cause readers to identify with the effect of stress. A wonderful distraction from a frantic day, readers of HUNG UP ON YOU will be confessing to be hung up on Jacob's sparkling talent for creating witty tales and sizzling chemistry. Very highly recommended.	2004-02-26
769085:US	49693975	R3C8TLR3XTNVP0	0595264603	163113890	Snow Waste	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very highly recommended	With the season's first dipping into freezing temperatures, Joe looks forward to making snow for a ski resort set deep in the Western Mountains of Maine. Joe looks forward to a successful season after a record-breaking start. But Joe's innocent view of snowmaking does not necessarily match management's view. While Joe delights in laying down snow and providing a successful season for the resort, the owner makes his own plans.<br />Without enough capitol to expand in the direction he wants to go and with a dearth of investors, the owner Warren resorts to an illegal deal with a local lumber mill to raise extra capitol. Warren does not know just how close an environmentalist watches, or how determined he will be in protecting the mountain and its inhabitants. Meanwhile, others watch as well, leading to unexplained accidents and destruction of property that brings the scrutiny of law enforcement and the media alike.<br />Three extremely diverse perspectives expose the dangers of greed, necessity and innocence in author Michael E. Bemis' SNOW WASTE. While the text is rather dense at times with needful explanation and exploration of technicalities and legalities, Bemis' elegant prose flows beautifully, making it easy for those who know the information to scan detail quickly yet keeping the explanations palatable for the uninitiated - truly a remarkable narrative feat. Indeed, Bemis utilizes his years in law enforcement and love of the snow to render a tale that is both powerful and thought provoking. While I often hesitate to review self published work, particularly from publishers like iUniverse, because of the extensive proofing and editing errors I often find in such work, Bemis' novel is an absolute delight with remarkably few proofing errors and an exceptional narrative voice. I can only hope that Bemis continues to pen such remarkable novels. SNOW WASTE comes very highly recommended.	2004-02-26
769265:US	49693975	R166I2XSQQX1VO	0373750129	103783688	About Last Night...	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Very highly recommended	The sex was fabulous, the best experience of her life, and he does not even remember. Now their night together changes everything. Lindy Brinks has loved her boss Shane Jacobsen for three years-ever since he shared his teen journals with her. As his personal assistant, Lindy had done everything for Shane, even buying his girlfriend's gifts and getting rid of them when they turn stalker. Alcohol and painkillers might have affected Shane's memory, but Lindy recalls every exquisite detail. Now she is moving on out of simple self-preservation.<br />With missionary parents that left him in the care of expensive nannies, Shane has been a black sheep for a long time. In his mid twenties, he has never taken anything too seriously, not his job and certainly not his love affairs. Mistakenly believing that good old Lindy will always be there for him, Shane takes her for granted until she leaves her job. Then he finds out she is pregnant with his child in a phone call from his parents who read it in the tabloids. Now it is time for this bad boy to grow up before the best thing that ever happened to him gets away.<br />Author Michele Dunaway deftly captures the challenges of transformation and love in ABOUT LAST NIGHT... Lindy's determination to leave her job and create a life apart from Shane demonstrates the tenacity and independence that make Dunaway's heroines such a delight. However, her hero departs radically from the norm. Rather than a mature, wise man with his life together, Shane is a spoiled, flightily man who must set priorities and radically change his ways if he wants to win Lindy and their child. Although Shane has a lot of growing up to do, however, he has a heart of gold that will see him through the greatest challenges of his life. A delightfully fresh tale with unexpected twists, ABOUT LAST NIGHT comes very highly recommended.	2004-02-26
769716:US	49693975	R1RQ54VWGJWRCE	082177512X	552953250	Say No to Joe? (Visitation, Book 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very highly recommended	Luna Clark may be the only woman to ever say no to the irresistible Joe Winston, which may be why he wants her so badly. When he is around her, Joe looses control of his wayward tongue, his better sense and his lust So when Luna seeks him out, Joe will do almost anything for her, including moving to a small town in North Carolina to help her to protect her young charges. Besides, disappearing for a while might be a good idea since his last job as a bounty hunter has yet to be resolved. Indeed, a little recovery time and a lot of time with Luna suits him fine. <br />Free spirited, bohemian Luna never expected to fall in love with her cousin's children so quickly. After seven guardians, they are understandably suspicious and it does seem as if the whole town is out to get them. For three months she has wanted Joe, dreaming and fantasizing about him. Despite her ongoing attraction to Joe, she doggedly says no to him because she refuses to play for less than for keeps. Nevertheless, she needs his help. Besides, despite his tough guy attitude, he knows a heck of lot more about children than she does.<br />Once again Lori Foster creates a hero no women can say no to with SAY NO TO JOE? Foster has a gift for creating scintillating tales that curl the toes and are impossible to put down. Luna is a sultry goddess that finds Joe impossibly tempting. While she might have a reputation for flighty fancy, she comes through for two troubled children in need of love and consistency. Fans have been eagerly awaiting Joe's story since his appearance in WILD. He might start out wishing for a wild fling, but it does not take long for Joe to recognize his heart's need for both Luna and the children. With plenty of action, comedy, wonderful secondary characters and a fun plot, SAY NO TO JOE belongs on the keeper shelf, coming very highly recommended.	2004-02-26
771694:US	49693975	R2K3D84SB54YSC	0440234654	171420156	Why Am I Up, Why Am I Down?: Understanding Bipolar Disorder (A Dell Mental Health Guide)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Recommended	The paradox of bipolar disorder baffles its victims with its manic highs and depressive lows, plaguing as many as two million Americans. Since bipolar disorder (previously known as manic depression) has often been misdiagnosed as depression, many patients have had a difficult if not impossible task of understanding and managing this condition. WHY AM I UP, WHY AM I DOWN explores the nature of this illness, including who is at risk and where to get help. In simple terms, this often complex and devastating condition becomes comprehensible and hopefully manageable.<br />For readers looking for basic information regarding the diagnosis and treatment of bipolar disorder, WHY AM I UP, WHY AM I DOWN is a useful resource. All the practical information one needs to begin education oneself is concisely presented in a question/answer format that reads quickly. However, readers expecting information beyond the basics will be well advised to continue their search elsewhere. There is little here for those who wish to live successfully with the illness. Moreover, the dry, clinical tone lends an air of bleakness, failing to recognize the large number of people diagnosed as bipolar that live healthy, successfully lives. Nevertheless, for readers seeking a beginner's understanding of mental illness and a guide through the morass of finding help, WHY AM I UP, WHY AM I DOWN will provide the practical advise needed to make a start.	2004-02-24
778070:US	49693975	R16RK88ZIZ8T96	1932300023	730915970	Let It Be Me	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Realistic choices	A devoted fan of music star Yale Frye, Lisa Klein has all of his CDs and has attended many of his concerts. Recently her letters and postcards have gone unanswered or returned, but Lisa refuses to be discouraged, continuing to write with fervent devotion. Lisa's husband Ronnie tolerates her fandom, even attending this concert with her. During a standing ovation, a shot rings out and Lisa puts herself in harms way, taking a bullet. While the police initially treat her with suspicion, Yale recognizes the sacrifice she made for him. <br />Soon Yale convinces Lisa to accompany him to his California estate to recuperate where their relationship develops romantically. Meanwhile, a fanatical group devoted to white supremacy conspires to complete the job they began. Even as Lisa faces the most difficult decisions of her life, to follow her heart and remain with Yale or to return to her husband and children, this group plans both her and Yale's death.<br />Lisa confronts the oral and ethical dilemmas of the heart when her dream comes true and she must choose between her marriage and her fantasy in LET IT BE ME. In this boldly sensual tale, Lisa makes unexpected choices that challenge traditional romantic conventions. While it would be easy to condemn a music star for the turning the head of a woman like Lisa, Yale comes across and sexy and sympathetic character. The combination of mystery, romance, madness and murder keeps the plot moving quickly. Although readers may at times identify the prose as that of a first time author, Lisa's passion and spirit makes for a convincing read. LET IT ME BE comes recommended.	2004-02-20
786497:US	49693975	RKI4WBG57B051	0373711603	227040684	The Wild Child: A Little Secret (Harlequin Superromance No. 1160)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	From the A Little Secret Miniseries	Eva Haines comes to isolated Liberty Island to tidy up the affairs of an eccentric distant relative. Within a week of arrival, she knows that someone watches, despite the fact that her cousin claimed the island is deserted except for an ancient donkey named Andy. There had once been a lone resident at the other end of the island, but Eva has no reason to believe that he is still in residence. So when she spies a child who later appears in her kitchen, Eva is taken aback. But no more so than when the wild child's father appears looking for her. <br />The daughter of reclusive Silas Lord, Fanny practically owns the island. Her brash charm quickly wins Eva's heart. But Eva cannot help wondering why Silas would so carefully seclude his daughter, not even allowing her to attend school. She has no playmates, but she does have a fascination for lipstick, jewelry and the contents of refrigerators. Silas has no appetite for society, but his daughter seems to crave new company, being drawn irresistibly to the other side of the island. Once she'd broken her father's rules to visit, Fanny cannot seem to stay away. Silas struggles between giving her a normal upbringing under strange circumstances and teaching herself with various excursions. Perhaps Eva can even help. As an elementary teacher she might be sympathetic to the reasons Silas intends to keep his daughter hidden.<br />Sociable, sassy Fanny threatens to steal the show in THE WILD CHILD, but it is her impetuous enthusiasm that draws her reclusive father Silas and newcomer Eva together. The island paradise presents the perfect setting, complete with seclusion, beaches and bathing pools. Indeed, once again author Judith Bowen displays her dazzling storytelling ability with this tale. Characteristic of all her books, THE WILD CHILD captures the heart and imagination with flair that makes all of her books extraordinary. THE WILD CHILD comes very highly recommended.	2004-02-13
786741:US	49693975	R1LEWQGQ2VC1VE	075820583X	279672128	Drive Me Crazy	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Very highly recommended	When he met the town librarian, Duncan Forbes had trouble reconciling her hooker looks with her spinster personality. Rather than a hair-bun, bifocals and tweed, Alex Forrest sports a short skirt, tight black sweater and do-me heels. In his preoccupation, Duncan scribbles his research notes in a book, only to be caught by the book Nazis who promptly charges him $148 dollars. Specifically, she charges him $41 for the book, $7 for a processing fee and $100 for defacing public property. That is when Duncan realizes that Alex might be related to Franklin Forrest, an antique dealer who reputably had some information on a Van Gogh missing since World War II.<br />Alex felt a dizzying rush of attraction when she catches Duncan looking up her skirt. But she does not have time for a sexy man while she is trying to get her grandfather's life story from audio tape to print and her grandparent's house sold. Two strangers show up in her library within twenty-four hours, one live and one dead, totally upending Alex's existence. Meanwhile, Duncan seems obsessed with her even as Alex's instincts warn her away from him. From their first kiss, Alex knows Duncan is trouble. Despite their promising chemistry, Alex has no time for a mindless affair with an obnoxious book scribbler she has just met, especially if he has blood on his hands.<br />Author Nancy Warren pens a potently sensual treat with DRIVE ME CRAZY. The hero and heroine's boldly sensuality threatens to set the pages ablaze. Indeed, Duncan's sleepy sexiness is the substance of fantasy, richly enhancing the way Alex celebrates her own sensuality. As a matter of fact, it would be great if we all could be as comfortable in our skin and expressing sexuality as Alex does. With such remarkable characterizations and engaging plot, Warren's first venture into full length novels is a rousing success and readers will be eagerly awaiting an encore.	2004-02-13
786745:US	49693975	R2YLB0RBE43TUU	0373791232	286577385	Mine To Entice	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Women who Dare miniseries - Very highly recommended	Forensic investigator Kate Quinn and deputy district attorney Jericho St. James have worked together for three years. When she's slightly late to testify and then enters with a new, enticing look, Jericho cannot take his eyes off of Kate. Unfortunately, rather than voicing his attraction, Jericho admonishes her for tardiness. At that point, she vows to tease him, to entice him, and when he is hers, to make him beg. <br />Jericho could control his desire when Kate hid behind a lab coat and glasses. With her transformation, he warns her that it may hold touch consequences. He knows that her passion has been sleeping, and much against his better judgement, Jericho would like to be the one to awaken her. He has certainly known that she wanted him. But only now he realizes just how much he wants her.<br />Author Karen Anders creates boldly sensual heroines and wildly sensitive heroes for her Women Who Dare miniseries. Kate's determination to keep Jericho begging exemplifies the power of sexuality even as the heart holds sway. MINE TO ENTICE especially results in a deliciously wicked read when contrasting belief and single-minded desire make for difficult bedfellows when Jericho arrests a man Kate believes to be innocent. As they boarder on the brink of miracles or disaster, passion flares and need intensifies. Seductive and alluring, MINE TO ENTICE comes very highly recommended.	2004-02-13
787078:US	49693975	R2NW3ZFE0JMJWC	0373711603	227040684	The Wild Child: A Little Secret (Harlequin Superromance No. 1160)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Little Secret miniseries - Very highly recommended	Eva Haines comes to isolated Liberty Island to tidy up the affairs of an eccentric distant relative. Within a week of arrival, she knows that someone watches, despite the fact that her cousin claimed the island is deserted except for an ancient donkey named Andy. There had once been a lone resident at the other end of the island, but Eva has no reason to believe that he is still in residence. So when she spies a child who later appears in her kitchen, Eva is taken aback. But no more so than when the wild child's father appears looking for her. <br />The daughter of reclusive Silas Lord, Fanny practically owns the island. Her brash charm quickly wins Eva's heart. But Eva cannot help wondering why Silas would so carefully seclude his daughter, not even allowing her to attend school. She has no playmates, but she does have a fascination for lipstick, jewelry and the contents of refrigerators. Silas has no appetite for society, but his daughter seems to crave new company, being drawn irresistibly to the other side of the island. Once she'd broken her father's rules to visit, Fanny cannot seem to stay away. Silas struggles between giving her a normal upbringing under strange circumstances and teaching herself with various excursions. Perhaps Eva can even help. As an elementary teacher she might be sympathetic to the reasons Silas intends to keep his daughter hidden.<br />Sociable, sassy Fanny threatens to steal the show in THE WILD CHILD, but it is her impetuous enthusiasm that draws her reclusive father Silas and newcomer Eva together. The island paradise presents the perfect setting, complete with seclusion, beaches and bathing pools. Indeed, once again author Judith Bowen displays her dazzling storytelling ability with this tale. Characteristic of all her books, THE WILD CHILD captures the heart and imagination with flair that makes all of her books extraordinary. THE WILD CHILD comes very highly recommended.	2004-02-13
787524:US	49693975	R2A6AE0ZVPZG8P	0373791151	653084591	Yours To Seduce: Women Who Dare	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Women who Dare miniseries - Very highly recommended	It was an unspoken rule that co-workers Lana Dempsey and Sean O'Neill did not get too close, because the heat between them would be too much. But a bet with her friends temporarily suspends the rules and Lana needs to get Sean in bed and obtain a souvenir. While Sean has stalwartly treated her like just another firefighter - just one of the boys - Lana has seen his occasional looks of undisguised lust.<br />Firefighters never discuss their fear, especially Lana. It would make her look weak to her coworkers. But when a dangerous situation results in Lana saving Sean, their carefully controlled passion erupts into flames. They might have been able to pretend to be friends and pals until they gave into lust, but sex complicates matters. Further, for a guy who does not mix friends and lovers, Sean does not quite know what to do with Lana, who is both.<br />Author Karen Anders has certainly established herself as one of romance's rising stars, especially with YOURS TO SEDUCE. The premise behind the WOMEN WHO DARE miniseries is hot, with friends who agree to seduce their sexual interests and obtain proof of their seduction. Such bold adventures result in fabulously searing tales. In YOURS TO SEDUCE, Sean is the kind of guy who gives in every sense of the word. Lana's bold seduction in the firehouse is absolutely scorching. Indeed, the burning intensity between Sean and Lana makes for a quick but satisfying read that will have readers scurrying to the bookstore more of this series. YOURS TO SEDUCE comes very highly recommended.	2004-02-13
808791:US	49693975	R1KT5XAL6XIXPG	0373791186	866340376	Stroke Of Midnight	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Highly recommended	Three of Harlequin's most stunning authors combine their talents for STROKE OF MIDNIGHT, an anthology readers will not want to miss. New Year's Eve brings three single women together for a Venetian masquerade ball at the home of famous shoe designer Rafe Monticello. They agree that if they are all three still single the following New Year's Eve, they will show up at the party together next year. I confess to a fondness for anthologies that hold together as well as this one. While each story is unique, the overall effect is a wildly romantic New Years that heats cold winter nights with delightful passion. Indeed, Denton, Alexander and Warren dazzle readers with their harmonious offering that both tantalizes and pleases at any time of year.<br />\\"Impulsive\\" by Jamie Denton: Fashion reporter Natalie Trent meets sexy Joe Sebastian, who simply disappears into the night after a scintillating encounter. At least she gets to take home a pair of Monticello shoes and set up interviews with the people she meets. Significantly, Natalie wears an unbuttoned man's tuxedo shirt and shakes a stud from her hair when she meets her new friends, providing proof of a heated encounter with a man who disappears at midnight and suddenly reappears at the next New Year's party.<br />\\"Enticing\\" by Carrie Alexander: Isabel Parisi claims to come to the party for the French champagne and the Italian men. As a fabric designer, she has been working with the Monticellos on the spring line. During the course of the year, online correspondence leads to a wonderful friendship with Tom Grace. Despite her proclamations that she does not want to actually meet him, Tom crashed the party hoping to meet Isabel without destroying their friendship.<br /> \\"Tantalizing\\" by Nancy Warren: Adrianne Sorenson attends the party because she is Rafe Monticello's accountant. Despite an endless string of women, Rafe Monticello wants the one woman who seems immune to his charms. Indeed, her clueless rejection only made himpursue harder. This year Rafe intends to overcome her reticent caution with spontaneous passion. Good thing that Adrianne is ready to overthrow her practical reputation in favor of something wild and unpredictable.	2004-01-27
811602:US	49693975	R4N6BGYY3PXOL	0373791208	238757635	What A Girl Wants	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Sizzling! Very highly recommended	Author Jane Langston penned the self-help book THE SEX FACTOR, encouraging women to seek emotionally fulfilling relationships rather than focus on sex. While hugely successful with women, however, the book elicited an outcry of protest among men who suddenly find they are sleeping alone. Jane appears on shock jock Jax Reed's talk show to defend her book and her ideals, only to find herself in possible danger from a threatening listener. Jax recommends that Jane seek protection and recommends his own security service. When her sister seconds the recommendation following further threats, Jane contacts Luke Nicoletti. <br />Luke fails to understand how a woman as hot as Jane can recommend celibacy. His own previous girlfriend ditched him after following Jane's advice, and Luke agrees with the general consensus among men that Jane just has not met the right man yet. Certainly when she meets Luke she suddenly wants to throw caution to the wind and explore the sizzling chemistry that they share. Furthermore, in spite of their business relationship, Luke wants to explore the possibilities that their passion presents and prove that her book's premise is wrong. <br />Fans of Jamie Sobrato's previous Harlequin Blaze release SOME LIKE IT SIZZLING will recognize her scintillating style in WHAT A GIRL WANTS. Indeed, Sobrato demonstrates a remarkable gift for capturing the heart of what a girl wants in a sizzling combination of emotional possibility and sensual promise that readers will treasure. As Sobrato explores the dynamics between desire and love, readers will be amused at the contradictions and convolutions both Jane and Luke must confront. Realistic portrayals provide rich characterization and a delightful plot that will tempt the reader to complete the book in a single sitting. Add WHAT A GIRL WANTS to the keeper shelf and watch for more from this talented romance author. Very highly recommended.	2004-01-25
811721:US	49693975	RB1ATO1C7FVKQ	0553584413	876323830	My Favorite Thief	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Terrific Victorian romantic suspense -- Highly recommended	Intimately familiar with the challenges of poverty and necessity, Charlotte &quot;Lottie&quot; Kent offers her abductor advice rather than resistance during a foiled robbery attempt. Little seems to faze this sassy young woman who is under the guardianship of the Marques of Redmond. The administrator of a London refuge shelter for unfortunate women and children, Lottie attends high society events hoping to secure support for the shelter. While attending a social event, raise money for her center. While at one of these galas, Lottie interrupts a robbery attempt, and helps the wounded thief, dubbed Dark Shadow by the press, escape.<br />It does not take Lottie long to identify the thief as Earl Harrison Payne, and when her deadbeat father shows up demanding money, she is forced to resort to extortion to protect her family and the shelter. Specifically, she demands that Harrison heist jewels that she might sell to dodge her father's threats. Lottie's demands bring about an unexpected chain of events. Harrison cannot resist the quiet charm of this crippled woman with a heart of gold. But they both will soon find themselves in danger and must join forces to identify their common enemy.<br />Author Karyn Monk pens an unexpectedly delightful Victorian romantic suspense with MY FAVORITE THIEF. With a quick moving plot and original characterizations, Monk draws upon expected qualities which make her work sparkle. Seldom does fiction allow a less than physically perfect heroine, but both Lottie's physical challenges and family challenges lend her an unexpected yet delightful vulnerability. Harrison's motives especially will keep readers guessing with his dark reputation and high societal position. With an unexpected and intriguing conclusion, readers will find themselves quite satisfied with this delightful read. MY FAVORITE THIEF comes highly recommended.	2004-01-25
812023:US	49693975	RKXMX1ILWZ6VW	0373765495	886674121	Passionately Ever After: Dynasties: The Barones (Harlequin Desire)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Very highly recommended	A millionaire by the time he was twenty-five, Steven Conti wants the one thing he cannot have; he wants to marry Maria Barone. Despite his family's claim, he does not believe that her family has been sabotaging Baronessa Gelateria, his family's chain of Italian ice cream shops that also distributes products nationwide. Unfortunately, when she learns of her pregnancy, Maria disappears leaving only a note saying that she needed to get away and time to think. Not knowing of his expected child, Steven eventually traces her to Silver Valley, Montana. <br />Seven decades of misfortunes have befallen the Barone family as a result of the Conti family's curse, resulting in unceasing enmity between the families. Despite his best efforts, Steven fails to convince Maria that the tragedy her family has suffered is only coincidence. So now she worries about how the curse could affect her child. At seven months pregnant, Maria cannot hide her pregnancy from Steven when he finds her, but she cannot yield to her heart's desire and marry him. So Steven refuses to leave Silver Valley without her.<br />Author Metsy Hingle brings the Dynasties: The Barons continuity to a satisfying conclusion with PASSIONATELY EVER AFTER. With her inexhaustible charm, Hingle confronts powerful tangles of the heart and family. Indeed, Hingle faces one of the greatest challenges of a continuity by deftly bringing to a conclusion the many threads of the previous installments including cousin Emily's amnesia and Derrick's and Bianca's kidnapping, as well as various engagements. Despite the necessity of completing previous stories, the plot moves quickly with legal and family angst to hold the reader's interest. PASSIONATELY EVER AFTER works amazingly well as a standalone, though it will have readers seeking other installments in the series. PASSIONATELY EVER AFTER comes very highly recommended.	2004-01-25
812351:US	49693975	RMZNJL02LNVA	0373711662	637180163	The New Man : Under One Roof (Harlequin Superromance No. 1166)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Deeply moving -- Very highly recommended	Helen Schaefer lost her beloved husband to a two year battle with cancer, and has no interest in marrying again. She and her daughter live with friends in an extended family relationship that works very well. While she dreams of creating a home for just the two of them, career opportunities dictate a different path for the time being. Right now Helen intends to leave behind a job in retail to market products she and her business partner have been manufacturing and selling. <br />When she meets widower Alec Fraser at a craft fair, however, Helen does not expect him to impact her plans and dreams so profoundly. Alec lost his wife in a stunningly short period of time after her diagnosis. Goodbyes were lost to necessity, unlike Helen. While she does not wish to marry again, Alec is not interested in a relationship without commitment. With much in common and yet such diverse views on love and marriage, Alec faces a tremendous challenge if he wants to convince Helen to risk again. <br />Author Janice Kay Johnson completes the Under One Roof trilogy with a powerfully told tale in THE NEW MAN. Grief threatens to insulate Helen from the joys and possibilities of love until Alec rocks her world. While loss of their spouses might have drawn them together, a whole lot more holds them together. Certainly Johnson demonstrates that it is not blood which creates a family but love. One of the strongest elements of the novel is that both Helen and Alec had good marriages filled with love that were ended by death not living issues. Often these types of plots reveal a less than happy previous marriage and it refreshing to find a story that allows happiness twice. A deeply moving story, THE NEW MAN comes very highly recommended.	2004-01-25
812437:US	49693975	R2NJGMEUIQSGVJ	0446611735	880483618	When She's Bad	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Delilah had an unusual relationship with her benefactor. In exchange for appearing in public as arm candy, Howard &quot;Cash&quot; Bradford passed on his business knowledge and part ownership of DeMay Health Spa following his demise. Unfortunately, his daughter retains partial ownership as well, and loathes the woman her father had supposedly slept with. Sworn to uphold Cash's reputation as lady's man, Delilah does not reveal the true nature of their celibate relationship.<br />Following Cash's death, Delilah learns the multitude of secrets he had kept, including dealing with blackmail. Further, Viagra had given him the opportunity to impregnate a young woman who subsequently drops her baby off on Delilah's doorstep. Her neighbor Benjamin Huntington, previously determined to perform loud home renovations late at night, soon finds himself helping her with the baby. He is also the brother of the man Cash's daughter wants to marry. With such convolutions, the complications promise high entertainment!<br />With WHEN SHE'S BAD, author Leanne Banks pens the dynamic sequel to her first single title SOME GIRLS DO that readers have been begging for. Fans will be incredibly pleased with Katie's sister Delilah's story. Her eccentric and multifaceted character provides an abundance of surprises with her intense loyalty as well as a unique combination of naughty and nice characterization. While neighbor Benjamin might seem too good to be true, his early determination to renovate his condo while neighbors sleep proves his charming foibles. Although many readers believe that a baby dropped from heaven is an overused plot device, Banks makes it work in a witty, memorable way that readers will adore. With two such remarkable novels to her credit, one can only hope that Banks has another full length novel in the works! WHEN SHE'S BAD earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2004-01-25
835848:US	49693975	R1B51VKEI78B5I	0743435621	79101843	March to the Stars (Weber, David)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Terrific military science fiction -- Very highly recommended	Prince Roger Ramius Sergei Chiang Alexander MacClintock, Heir Tertiary to the Throne of man proved himself to be such a spoiled and foppish distraction that his mother sent him on a useless mission to keep him busy in MARCH UPCOUNTRY. In MARCH TO THE SEA, he and his Marines battle their way across the remote planet of Marduk in their attempt to return to earth. Now in MARCH TO THE STARS, Roger leads the Bronze Barbarians of the Imperial Guard across the Eastern Ocean of Marduk in quest of the spaceport that will get them home.<br />During a deadly sea crossing, more than a hundred men are lost to a giant sea monsters or pirates. But more danger threatens, as half way through the novel stakes are raised when Roger learns of the changes of political climate affecting himself and his mother the Empress. Indeed, he will have to take more than just the spaceport if he ever wants to return home. Further, those changes threaten everything he holds dear, including the romance he shares with Despreaux.<br />Authors David Weber and John Ringo continue their highly successful military science fiction series in MARCH TO THE STARS. While collaborations can be easily flawed by a mix of writing styles, Weber and Ringo offer a seamless blend of voices that becomes an impressive tour de force. Roger comes of age through these novels, growing from court foppishness into a true leader. Written on multiple levels, Weber's background as a historian and Ringo's military background add not only technical proficiency but an insider's observation of our own times and past. As with many of these author's works, many of the characters are amazingly expendable, resulting in exciting action but caution on the reader's part regarding emotional involvement for secondary characters. Nevertheless, readers that have not indulged in the first two books of this series, MARCH UPCOUNTRY and MARCH TO THE SEA, will be scurrying to the bookstore. MARCH TO THE STARS comes very highly recommended.	2004-01-08
840752:US	49693975	R2BMNIFRN31VYR	082177509X	914721451	My Favorite Husband	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Very highly recommended	Her wedding should have been the best of days, but holding her previous husband's memorial on the same day results in the worst of days for Kelly Richmond Vincent. Before resigning herself to the seemingly inevitable, Kelly expended her savings and devoted all her energy to finding her husband who disappeared in an accident. Now five years later, a loop hole allowed her to have him legally declared dead after five years. <br />Of course Chaz would waltz into his own funeral, with the declaration that \\"Honey, I'm home.\\" Now Kelly has not one, but two husbands, a mother who will not understand and a new groom eagerly waiting to consummate their vows. Chaz not only expects to pick up where they left off, but also expected to find the same Kelly waiting for him that he left behind. All this fashion sense and independence certainly leaves him guessing, especially with everyone staying at the honeymooner's hotel and Kelly getting her own room!<br />Author Pam McCutcheon pens a novel impossible to put down with MY FAVORITE HUSBAND. I found myself reading it out loud while on a road trip over the holidays because I wanted to share the pleasure of the reading it with a friend. Ethical dilemma, comic mistakes and a strong dose of humor combine in this outrageous read that belongs on the keeper shelf. Readers will eagerly anticipating Kelly's brother Scott's story. MY FAVORITE HUSBAND comes very highly recommended.	2004-01-05
840967:US	49693975	REAGWOUR5NTJU	0373711697	129782985	The Christmas Wife: You, Me & the Kids (Harlequin Superromance No. 1169)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A merry holiday tale - Highly recommended	A single father of two, Beau Julander finds the daily household tasks daunting while trying to fulfill outside obligations. Broken promises to his children have led to a rebellious daughter as he tries to serve as a member of the Serenity Homecoming Week Committee. Worse, an overly &quot;helpful&quot; ex-mother-in-law sabotages his efforts to establish his own routine and rules for his children. When former classmate Molly Shepherd returns to town, however, Beau finds himself torn between scars of the past and a desire for a different sort of future.<br />Molly returns for the Homecoming hoping to discover answers to her past. Since her mother's fatal accident, her father refused to discuss her mother. He destroyed even the pictures saying he could not bear the reminders. But Molly's tentative inquires into the past lead to silence that forces her to only delve deeper. Moreover her former high school crush on Beau runs abated even after ten years. But his scars from the past threaten any possible future for the without a bit of a holiday miracle.<br />A celebration of the holiday season, THE CHRISTMAS WIFE is a delightful holiday tale readers will treasure any time of year. Although Molly's coping skills with Beau's children seems a bit idealized, her need to create a new life and find answers to the past results in a well rounded character. Beau's foibles as his struggles with parenthood and priorities will strike just the right note of realism with the reader. Indeed, Sherry Lewis displays a knack for capturing the essence of the challenges of a single father in a small town. A delightful read, THE CHRISTMAS WIFE comes highly recommended.	2004-01-05
854976:US	49693975	RXPOJ08P7KW96	1551667142	616464347	Flash Point (MIRA)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Very highly recommended	A chance picking up of a newspaper transforms New York photographer Kelly Santos life when she returns to New Orleans after Sister Grace dies. The nun had been the only loving influence in her life while she grew up in St. Anne's orphanage. Indeed, Sister Grace had given Kelly her first camera, thereby changing how she sees the world. The distance of the camera from its subject reflects Kelly's own struggles to live in a world where her psychic abilities have always ostracized her. <br />Touching the newspaper brings about a viewing of the chain events that lead to murder. Kelly reports her knowledge to the local police who scoff at her information; that is, until a victim surfaces that meets her exact description. The police suspect Kelly of committing the murder except for Jack Callaghan, who has previous experience with Kelly's gifts. Further, when Kelly touches Sister Grace's rosary, she realized the nun had been murdered as well. Little does she suspect that she herself may have been the link between the murders and that she is in terrible danger.<br />Fans of author Metsy Hingle will recognize her remarkable gift for creating gripping tales of romance against a richly realized New Orleans background. Once again Hingle demonstrates her marvelous talent in FLASH POINT as the city aptly frames Kelly's psychic gift. The pace of the plot moves quickly, despite its circular path revisits the crimes through Kelly's skills. Kelly and Jack develop a tender romance even as danger throws them ever closer together. Furthermore, combining the elements of a police procedural with the paranormal results in a gripping tale readers will find impossible to put down. FLASH POINT comes very highly recommended.	2003-12-24
855095:US	49693975	RSLHH7MO7CAR7	159080158X	140247235	Tides of Autumn	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Captivating! Very highly recommended	After twenty-two years of marriage, widow Darci Cunnigham begins her new life on Mackinac Island hoping to pursue her lifelong dream of becoming an author. Still grieving, Darci longs for the healing the island provides, little suspecting the danger that lurks nearby. Meanwhile, she learns to live again when she meets photojournalist Tyler Landston. <br />Tyler comes to Mackinack Island to capture images of its residents for his employers who are writing a book. Accustomed to moving throughout the world, Tyler has never had a desire to settle in one place. But when he meets Darci, Tyler finds himself longing for more than his rolling stone ways. Unfortunately, his inability to talk about the past makes him look terribly suspicious and causes a rift between himself and Darci.<br />One of the greatest pleasures of small presses is the refreshingly \\"real\\" stories one encounters. Imperfect, older heroines who love and grieve and gain second chances provide the depth and maturity many readers seek in their heroines. Certainly author Pamela Johnson understands the need for unconventional heroines as shown in this first book of the Shores of Mackinac Series. TIDES OF AUTUMN captures the poignancy of loss and the promise of new beginnings even as danger lurks only a moment away. Johnson's ability to create a place replete with magic and rich in nuance makes TIDES OF AUTUMN come very highly recommended.	2003-12-24
857076:US	49693975	R1B0HFM4LS98C9	0373218508	793877688	Femme Fatale (Feature Anthology)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Flirty, sexy, powerful heroines!	Series romance finally achieves powerful heroines who approach living and loving with style and verve in the FEMME FATALE anthology. Rather than using tears revealing their femininity, these heroines rely on their abilities and their intelligence to express their feminine side. These heroines work for a top-secret agency called StonyMan Farm in this series of connected missions which keeps the heart pounding, the blood pumping, and the heroes guessing. <br />In Shaken and Stirred, British agent Bethany Riggs finds herself framed for murder and running from the CIA when a Russian informant dies. The Russian woman had been betrayed by her terrorist lover, and sought both safety and revenge by coming to Beth. Instead, the informant found herself at the wrong end of sniper's rifle. Now MI-6 Agent Jason Chandler believes Beth killed the Russian, and follows the British spy through the streets of Cape Town in pursuit of the computer keycard to the terrorist's computer system. Beth and Jason find themselves at cross purposes even as they seek the same goals. A fast paced plot and pulsating chemistry keeps the story lively even as their chemistry really turns up the heat. Beth and Jason are evenly matched for wit and drive, allowing them both extraordinarily strong parts in the story. While the first story I've read by Doranna Durgin, it certainly will not be the last! <br />In The Get-Away Girl, Kylee Swain uses her career as a stuntwoman as cover for her covert work for Stony Man. Stony Man assigns Kylee to obtain the computer of a programmer with connections to an international terrorist. Accustomed to life on the edge, Kylee still finds herself surprised when a sniper attempts to kill her while filming a stunt driving a car. An Australian mercenary and former CIA agent, Mick Stone is the programmer's bodyguard and has no intention of allowing Kylee fulfill her mission, whatever it might be. As these powerful characters clash, the result is fascinating spin on a traditional storyline. Kylee's career as a stuntwoman adds zest to this tale as she controls dangerous and deadly situations with finesse. Mick's Australian flair adds a touch of the exotic, even if occasionally overdone, resulting in a sexy hero worthy of Kylee's style. Author Meredith Fletcher's flair for creating tense situations and unexpected danger results in a memorable tale. <br />In End Game, Victoria Grayson works undercover in the Cayman Islands trying to bring down a powerful drug lord. Her assignment forces her to cross paths with a former contact, DEA Agent Bishop Tyler, who knows her under a very different cover. As staid as Victoria is flamboyant, Bishop determinedly works toward closing a case of his own. Fans of Virginia Kantra will recognize her characteristic flair for witty dialogue and scintillating chemistry. While her tale is flavored by more conventions of serial romance, she successfully skirts the temptation to allow her heroine tearful recollections of the past. Instead, Victoria emerges with the strength her name suggests. <br />Powerfully rendered, the heroines of FEMME FATALE lend the product line a remarkable freshness and unsurpassed dynamism. FEMME FATALE is an outstanding anthology that comes very highly recommended. If this anthology recommends their new series of intriguing tales with tough heroines entitled Bombshells, then it should be a tremendous success.	2003-12-22
868017:US	49693975	R1CS9N2WJHEU2	0373441754	130604601	Staying Single	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very highly recommended	When she leaves her third groom standing at the altar, Francie Morelli knows her mother will dole out yet another guilt trip. Rather than endure, she flees for two weeks to the destination selected by her roommate Leo. While Niagara Falls might be the last place her mother will look for her, it is also the last person Francie really wants to be. All those couples remind Francie of what she really wants in a man, including a man with chemistry and fire. Little does she suspect that she will find just that combination in the one man who is determined to secretly teach her a lesson.<br />When his brother is left at the altar, Mark Fielding decides to give the jilting bride a taste of her own medicine. With deferent last names and a completely different look than his step-brother, Mark knows that Francie will never suspect his connection to her former fiancé. So Mark springs for an extended vacation for this brother and parents, sending them to Hawaii and makes his plans. But he does not expect to be genuinely attracted to Francie, or for his plans to backfire. <br />Fans of Millie Criswell's THE TROUBLE WITH MARY and WHAT TO DO ABOUT ANNIE will cheer the debut of Harlequin's Flipside line with STAYING SINGLE. Criswell has established herself as memorable with her strong heroines and meddlesome mommas. Certainly STAYING SINGLE showcases her talent with wonderfully realized hero and heroine, but I confess that Francie's huge family and gay roommate add the zest that characterizes Criswell's work. Hilarious antics outrageous characters make STAYING SINGLE a stunning debut for Flipside. Very highly recommended.	2003-12-11
868599:US	49693975	R4BFNFOFYBOKG	0373711654	489629822	Christmas at Shadow Creek: The Birth Place (Harlequin Superromance No. 1165)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very highly recommended	Two years ago Johanna Weston tragically lost her newborn son Hunter. Now divorced, she seeks healing working at the Enchantment Pediatric Clinic before restarting her career in California with the position she dreamed of while in medical school. Her soft heart leads the purchase of Galahad, a lame gelding. When Galahad escapes his pen, Johanna meets neighbor Ben Carson, the owner of Shadow Creek Ranch.<br />Despite his better judgment, Ben was intrigued by Johanna from first sight. But he forsook his dreams of love and marriage when three years ago the woman he loved left him. Now he needs to concentrate in his ranch and raising their horses. There just is not enough time for anything else, no matter how enchanting his new neighbor might be. Good thing he has his priorities straight, or his interest might lead to trouble.<br />Enchantment, New Mexico brings healing in Roxanne Rustand's CHRISTMAS AT SHADOW CREEK. Fans of the Birthplace series will be charmed by this beautiful tale about second chances. Both Johanna and Ben bear wounds from their past, but once they let their guard down, they discover the power of love to heal. A lovely tale whose beauty transcends the holiday season, CHRISTMAS AT SHADOW CREEK comes very highly recommended.	2003-12-11
868692:US	49693975	R157XK6M5B7LYM	0843952997	622656172	The Tiger & the Tomb	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Very highly recommended	In 1893 an arranged marriage pairs Lady Katherine Smithfield with an Egyptian family friend known as Nazim. Despite her dual English and Egyptian heritage, Katherine only fulfills the marriage contract because it was her mother's dying wish. Besides, her scarred left cheek assures a dearth of marriage proposals. The scar was left by tiger cub in her youth. Now her father is in danger. Unless she can steal a treasure map from a man known as Ramses, her father is bound for jail for a crime he did not commit. Her blackmailer assures her that her father will not survive the experience.<br />Ramses deplores his half-English heritage. Like his sacred totem, Ramses is fierce and relentless as a tiger when he stalks something he wants, and he wants the mysterious woman for a night of passion before he signs his marriage agreement. Like his ancestors, as a Guardian of the Ages (those sworn to protect his sheikh), Ramses is a warrior sworn to sacred bonds of trust. Once he marries his English bride, he will take the name Nazim and must remain faithful to his wife to ensure an heir to carry forth his family's sacred trust. When they meet, both Katherine and Ramses experience an overwhelming chemistry, even though neither knows the identity of the one they are sworn to marry or that their missions put them at cross purposes.<br />Bonnie Vanak weaves a captivating tale of love and intrigue in THE TIGER &amp; THE TOMB. The sequel to THE FALCON AND THE DOVE, Both Katherine and Rames suffer from deep inner torment that finds love's remarkable power of healing. Vanak displays impressive flair for capturing the atmosphere of ancient Egypt, lending the exotic past a vivid presence that lingers with the reader long after the last page is turned. With a remarkable blend of eroticism, adventure, and humor, THE TIGER &amp; THE TOMB belongs on the historical romance fan's keeper shelf. THE TIGER &amp; THE TOMB comes very highly recommended.	2003-12-11
869717:US	49693975	R3I21N0QQGZEQG	0373691483	217387222	Trick Me, Treat Me: The Wrong Bed	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Very highly recommended	Author Jared Winchester has spent the last year researching the Glanovsky serial killer, and now he leaves behind frigid Russia for frigid Chicago. He has not had a serious relationship because most women cannot handle his career writing about horrific crime. Certainly no one has ever understood his fascination for the macabre. This weekend, however, Jared looks forward to his cousin Mick's murder weekend Halloween party to be held in his hometown at The Marsden Place. He assumes the identity of Miles Stone, a James Bond type stalking an international arms dealer. <br />Although she and her aunt had not planned to open The Marsden Place until after the New Year, its reputation leads them to open it for Halloween weekend. Nearly every room is booked, including space reserved by the local real estate agent Mick. Aunt Hildy capitalizes on her gangster past to add atmosphere to the place. Indeed, Aunt Hildy insists that the place is haunted and that she talks to ghosts. So when Jared arrives in character, he assumes that Gwen is simply a part of his cousin's event. And when her aunt whacks him over the head with a stalking full of pennies, amnesia lends its own remarkable twist to the weekend's events.<br />Author Leslie Kelly's talent for penning tantalizing, sensual romance sparkles in TRICK ME, TREAT ME. The tricks are delightful and the treats are sinful when Jared and Gwen cross paths in this installment of The Wrong Bed series. In keeping with the Halloween theme, ghosts and a haunted house lend the novel a supernatural element, but there is nothing ghoulish in this Halloween treat. The scintillating heat between Jared and Gwen clearly reveals why Kelly has established herself as one of Harlequin reader's favorite authors. A fun treat suitable for any time of year, TRICK ME, TREAT ME comes very highly recommended.	2003-12-10
870497:US	49693975	R33E74RXSDZTHB	0060007230	78169548	Someone Like Him	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very highly recommended	Lavender &quot;Vinnie&quot; Hart's boss fires her only fifty-nine minutes after beginning her new job. With a twelve-year-old brother who needs tuition money to worry over, Vinnie desperately seeks a new position. After several disastrous interviews, Vinnie meets with Nicholas Wright who seeks someone to care for his newly acquired dog. <br />A wealthy architect, Nick knows more about design then he does the care of a four footed animal -- especially when his aunt bequeaths a detailed journal including instructions for pedicures and sweaters for the dog named Daffodil. The pooch turns into a powerful matchmaker, but even she may not be enough when the intrepid ex-girlfriend Dana Dvorak attempts to rid Nick of both his dog and Vinnie. <br />Author Karen Kendall has a gift for the turn of phrase in SOMEONE LIKE HIM. Prose reads like poetry with gems like &quot;In the evening, she'd swear the smell of weariness hung in the air.&quot; Yet the comedic elements of the novel likewise sparkle with her original style that readers will treasure. A wonderful cast of characters keeps the pages turning with outrageous and unexpected antics. Vinnie's self-conscious awareness of class issues weighs heavily in this otherwise light hearted romp, revealing unexpected depth of characterization. With Daffodil's antics keeping the tone light, SOMEONE LIKE HIM provides a delightful afternoon's read, coming very highly recommended.	2003-12-10
877052:US	49693975	R1809JMD061Q9M	0373711670	375110192	A Baby by Christmas	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Very highly recommended	During her six months of marriage to Jake, Elise failed to consider the effect of having her deceased husband's picture by the bedside, or the effect of her emphasis on procreation at the expense of all of else. But when Jake suddenly discovers that he is the father of a special needs child, the very foundations of their marriage prove to be made of sand. She is not ready to be the mother of someone else's child. He is not prepared to give up his son. <br />Only the fact that Jake cannot gain custody of his child without being married forces both he and Elise to confront their deepest feelings. Truthfully, somewhere along the way a marriage formed for the purpose of having a child had brought unexpected love. But due to the new stresses of their lives, now it has brought unexpected heart ache. But mutual love and love for a special child might just be enough to bring this unexpected family together by Christmas. <br />Linda Warren pens a heartwarming tale of second chances in A BABY BY CHRISTMAS. She deftly exploits one of the best benefits of writing for the Superromance line by bringing together mature characters under unusual circumstances. Certainly they discover new love, but not through the traditional plot devices. Instead, she creates a masterfully fresh plot and wonderful, yet wounded, characters that discover marvelous possibilities. With such a wonderful storyline, readers will easily forgive a child that is rather too precocious for his circumstances. A wonderful read that belongs the keeper shelf, A BABY BY CHRISTMAS comes very highly recommended.	2003-12-04
878999:US	49693975	R1FVLDO0GPBO9G	0505525240	496362927	Shadow Crossing	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Very highly recommended	There was a time when Celie Cameron smuggled contraband all over the quadrant, surviving by wit and bravado. Now with Shielders safely settled in a new quadrant, questions of inequality and poverty seem to be solved. That is, until Celie takes an illegal shipment to the planet of Joba. The government certainly has failed to eliminate poverty and need on this desolate planet. And when she tries to make her delivery, things go dangerously wrong. <br />Shocking discoveries once rocked Rurick and shook the foundation of his beliefs when he realized the failure of the Interstellar Council to uphold the life quality codes they established. Poverty and disease are rampant, and he intends to do what he can to help the planet of Altair. Indeed, he fears how many might die before he can bring much needed supplies. Then gunfire forces Celie, her assistant Raven, his robot, and himself to retreat to Rurick's ship, leaving Celie's ship behind. Celie soon finds herself intrigued by the robot that seems almost human, especially when she learns of his pleasure programming. But she and Rurick both have secrets and one is that Rurick dare not reveal his true identity. <br />Author Catherine Spangler's gift for memorable futuristic romance absolutely sparkles in SHADOW CROSSINGS. While it works just as well as a standalone, SHADOW CROSSING takes its part in the series of books about Shielders with aplomb. As always, Spangler populates her universe with characters readers come to love. Celie and Rurick share a powerful passion even as they work at cross purposes. Seemingly insurmountable differences present challenges they most overcome. Secondary plots likewise dazzle, especially with the return of fan favorites from previous novels. An absolute reading pleasure, SHADOW CROSSING comes very highly recommended.	2003-12-03
880770:US	49693975	RN9HA5JTFU90B	0821775006	491062417	He Said Yes (Gentleman's Club, Book 1)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Very highly recommended	Marshall Hanley Bedford, Marquis of Waltham, looks forward to settling his family comfortably so he can one day marry. In the meantime, a mistress could easily meet his needs. But a simple seamstress captures his imagination and throws his plans, his future and his reputation into a tizzy. He intends to make Evelyn Dennsworth his mistress. Then she stands unjustly accused of theft, and Marshall feels compelled to come to her rescue. He hires a lawyer and has her released from prison under his protection until her innocence can be proven.<br />In the meantime, Marshall sets Evelyn up in her own house. Despite tantalizing kisses, Evelyn makes it clear that she will never become his mistress. However, she does become his stepmother's assistant. During the days, Evelyn's influence draws Lady Waltham out of her deep mourning and helps her to live again. Nights Evelyn spends in Marshall's arms as his lover. Then horribly, she accused of theft once again. <br />Author Patricia Waddell begins a wonderful new series with the Gentleman's Club. These fast paced Victorian romances begin with HE SAID YES, to be followed by February 2004's release of HE SAID NO. In HE SAID YES, author Waddell once again demonstrates her gift for matching a strong, intelligent, determined heroine with a strong, honorable, and extremely passionate hero. Indeed, Marshall and Evelyn's unconventional verve and remarkable honesty cannot help but capture reader's hearts. Moreover, their story absolutely sparkles, striking just the perfect note between tender and passionate, impossible and believable. Secondary characters are likewise believable, lending the novel wonderful depth. HE SAID YES comes very highly recommended.	2003-12-02
882704:US	49693975	RT54XXZDKPF47	0373169841	635197816	Montana Twins (Harlequin American Romance, No 984)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Recommended	Sheriff Eric Oakes Stunned is stunned by the news that he is a father. He did not even know that he had a sister until the social worker informed him of her death, and of the twins he was about to inherit. That is, if he can rectify his single status. Eric had always wanted children, but this is totally unexpected. After his mother had abandoned him at the age of ten, she had had another family. Her daughter was also eventually relegated to the foster care system, becoming the foster sister Laura Cavendish, who has been raising the twin babies since their mother's death.<br />Laura also loves the children, and is reticent about giving them up. As difficult as giving the children up is, however, she will fulfill her foster sister's wishes, if Eric complies with her wishes as well and gets married. So when Eric advertises for a wife who lives up to Laura's expectations, he is destined to fail. That is, unless he convinces Laura to marry him instead. Although Eric is convinced that he cannot love, he has many lessons to learn from his new family, especially Laura, who believes herself unworthy to be loved. <br />Author Charlotte Maclay pens a tender story of self acceptance in MONTANA TWINS. Neither Laura nor Eric seeks out the biological father, thereby underscoring their own potential losses. Unfortunately, that casual disregard may bother some readers. Nevertheless, both Laura and Eric are damaged, each believing that they are incapable and unworthy of the love the other offers. Their unexpected passion brings them to understand the profound depths of emotion they are capable of, allowing their characters to grow convincingly. However, Laura's determination to cling to the belief that she is unworthy of love because she defines her worth by her ability to bear children can be a bit wearisome. On the other hand, Eric's struggles and her transformation lend the novel a wonderful poignancy. MONTANA TWINS comes recommended.	2003-11-30
883069:US	49693975	R2HXXTSDKASANY	0373441746	265500741	A Baby...Maybe -- How To Hunt a Husband	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very highly recommended	In the last Harlequin Duets, authors Bonnie Tucker and Holly Jacob team up for amusing comedy. Readers who have treasured such entertaining reads will be pleased to learn that Duets are becoming a new product line called Flipside, offering individual, longer titles. Certainly Tucker and Jacobs capture the flair and spirit that made Duets such a huge success.<br />A BABY...MAYBE? By Bonnie Tucker: Meddlesome mothers arrange a bet as whose daughter will marry first. But Cara wants no part of this competition to the altar, especially when her mother picks the date and begins to arrange the ceremony without a groom in sight. So Cara flees town on her spring break, only to decide that what she really needs a baby. But the man who is as the sperm bank does not exactly offer the exact product this hopeful mother needs. Or does he? A rollicking rollercoaster ride filled with unexpected twists and hilarity! The seamless blend of this story into the subsequent one by Holly Jacobs adds the unity of theme that characterizes the best of Duets. <br />HOW TO HUNT A HUSBAND by Holly Jacobs: Readers who enjoyed the Harlequin Duet The Great Bridal Escape/How to Catch a Groom by Bonnie Tucker and Holly Jacobs will recall Mary Kathryn's sister Shannon O'Malley. Now featured in her own story, Shannon endures the pressure to find a husband since her sister ran off with the best man and left her groom at the altar. Now her mother intends to win the bet that will land her at the altar despite her reticence to marry. Nate also wants to avoid the altar, and suggests that he and Shannon team up to get rid of the wedding planners. She presents herself as a stripper and he presents himself as a biker to their respective families. But the plan backfires when each attempts to keep their emotions and desire in check. An hilarious read that will keep the reader in stitches, HOW TO HUNT A HUSBAND showcases Jacobs at her outrageous best.	2003-11-30
883977:US	49693975	R1CZH3RR5SXWD	0373791127	530628127	Girl's Guide To Hunting & Kissing: Single in South Beach	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The second of the Single in South Beach series!	In her first series for Harlequin, author Joanne Rock captures the vibrancy of Miami Beach with her own inexhaustible flair for scintillating romance. The first novel of the Single in South Beach series introduces the hedonistic Club Paradise and the creative women who run it. A wildly successful resort for couples, Club Paradise received an overall when its male owners absconded with the profits. Each of the women owners had a connection to those who nearly bankrupted the resort, and have worked together to turn it into a lush, provocative, uninhibited playground for singles. Their goal is a fat bottom line and sweet financial revenge. None of the women expect to find love!<br />Attorney Jackson Taggart looks for a woman with the perfect mouth, finding it on Summer Farnsworth. Deftly avoiding cliché pickup lines, Jackson captures her imagination with a clever use of a cell phone and divine temptation. Jackson knows Summer's secret fantasy will do anything to get his girl. Indeed, Summer makes Jackson easily forget the controversy that dogs his every step thanks to father. She might not be a politician's perfect pick, but he is willing to risk his carefully starched shirts for her. <br />Jackson risks his political career for her even as Summer prefers bad boys with tattoos. As Club Paradise's ambiance coordinator, Summer has created a sensual paradise culminating with a room that is straight out of a bordello. Her bustier and pink braids may not match the proper image Jackson usually pursues, but her fiery personality draws him irresistibly. While they are wildly attracted to each other, however, Jackson and Summer are truly proof that opposites attract, and soon they are attracting controversy as well. <br />The wildly successful introduction to this series, SEX &amp; THE SINGLE GIRL receives a perfect encore with GIRL'S GUIDE TO HUNTING AND KISSING. Jackson's outrageously ingenious method of meeting and pursuing Summer cannot fail to charm readers even as the sensuality between them sparkles. Richly developed characterizations spring to life, complete with a background dripping with decadence and sin. A marvelous read, GIRL'S GUIDE TO HUNTING &amp; KISSING comes very highly recommended. Be sure to watch for the next installment, Harlequin Temptation ONE NAUGHTY NIGHT.	2003-11-29
884029:US	49693975	RONYHJLWGA5JV	0373691513	219843635	One Naughty Night   The Wrong Bed	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The third of the Single in South Beach series!	In her first series for Harlequin, author Joanne Rock captures the vibrancy of Miami Beach with her own inexhaustible flair for scintillating romance. The first novel of the Single in south Beach series introduces the hedonistic Club Paradise and the creative women who run it. A wildly successful resort for couples, Club Paradise received an overall when its male owners absconded with the profits. Now owned by a group of women, Club Paradise has been transformed into a lush, provocative, uninhibited playground for singles. But it is not the kind of place a girl like Esmeralda Giles might usually be found.<br />Esme arrives at Club Paradise to meet a blind date orchestrated by her neighbor who has an eligible nephew. Her neighbor paid for a room at the club as well. Believing that her faulty judgment has led to her stint of bad luck, including loosing her job and her car, Esme is determined to do everything opposite of what her instinct might dictate. Otherwise she would never have gone on a blind date. <br />When the woman stands out in a room full of outrageous outfits and do-me heels, Renzo Cesare decides to intervene. When he learns that Esme intends to meet a blind date, he steps in, not correcting his identity until he is certain she had safely made it to his room. Entranced by Esme, however, Renzo will have to work hard to find his way to her good graces. <br />The third installment of the Single in South Beach series, ONE NAUGHTY NIGHT combines the success of this series with the ongoing delightful Harlequin Temptation's The Wrong Bed Series for outrageous fun. Author Joanne Rock's seductive prose consistently weaves a spell of romance and titillation that readers find irresistible. Esme and Renzo might meet under unorthodox conditions, but they discover wildly sensual exquisite temptation. ONE NAUGHTY NIGHT comes very highly recommended. Be sure to watch for February's release of the next Single in South Beach series, when VALENTINE VIXEN is packaged with Stephanie Bond's CLUB CUPID.	2003-11-29
884096:US	49693975	R3T2O9F88D38SJ	0373791089	25865974	Sex & the Single Girl: Single in South Beach (Harlequin Blaze, 104)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A lavishly sensual experience! Very highly recommended	In her first series for Harlequin, author Joanne Rock captures the vibrancy of Miami Beach with her own inexhaustible flair for scintillating romance. The first novel of the Single in South Beach series introduces the hedonistic Club Paradise and the creative women who run it. A wildly successful resort for couples, Club Paradise received an overall when its male owners absconded with the profits. Each of the women owners had a connection to those who nearly bankrupted the resort, and have worked together to turn it into a lush, provocative, uninhibited playground for singles. Their goal is a fat bottom line and sweet financial revenge. None of the women expect to find love!<br />FBI agent Aiden Maddock arrives at Club Paradise intending to investigate the scandal that rocked it the previous year. Unfortunately, he was also the same agent in charge of Brianne Wolcott's stepfather's investigation ten years ago. Brianne was barely an adult then, and the investigation was devastating. She is now a much different woman who would prefer to leave her past behind. Unfortuately, her step-father was Aidan's recurring nemesis and the first case Aiden had ever worked. The fact that he still remains free spurs Aiden's interest in Club Paradise and Brianne.<br />Brianne might have been naïve enough ten years ago to trust Aiden, but now she has attitude and verve. But Aiden is determined to not let her sexy looks deter him from this career breaking investigation. Brianne is equally determined to not let this hunky investigator get to her. He might think she is her now ex-step-father's puppet, but she is her own woman and hell bent on success. Aiden becomes a regular guest at the club and sexual tension escalates, especially as he becomes certain she is hiding something. <br />Author Joanne Rock pens a sensual feast with SEX &amp; THE SINGLE GIRL. An extraordinary introduction to a promising series, SEX &amp; THE SINGLE GIRL is Rock at her best with scintillating dialogue, a brisk pace, and hard hitting sensuality. Her own years of living at Miami Beach bring the area alive with a vivacious celebration of night life and fascinating characters. SEX &amp; THE SINGLE GIRL comes very highly recommended. Be sure to watch for next month's installment, GIRL'S GUIDE TO HUNTING AND KISSING.	2003-11-29
884377:US	49693975	R205OQQCISTTFY	0373169787	965356145	Prognosis: A Baby? Maybe: The Babies of Doctors Circle (Harlequin American Romance, No 978)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Very highly recommended	Heather Rourke resents the arrival of Doctors Circle's newest staff addition. Everyone knows she should have been in line next for the job but no one knows that is not the reason for her resentment. Only Doctor Jason Carmichael knows that they met at a convention more than a year ago and would have made love if he had not passed out. The humiliating experience has haunted her, but she does not realize that Jason does not remember exactly what happened that night. <br />Jason knows that Heather has a secret. When he learns that she has a baby at home about the right age for their purported liaison, Jason becomes determined to find a way to spend time with his daughter. But he does not know how to orchestrate things without scaring Heather off. Eventually the truth will come out. Either Heather had his baby or she is keeping a darker secret. <br />Author Jacqueline Diamond pens an entrancing story with PROGNOSIS: A BABY? MAYBE. Jason's inability to remember the events of fifteen months ago leads to the marvelous of conundrums, and Heather's determination to protect her heart and her privacy offers him no respite. Indeed, Jason's arrogance meets its match in Heather's protectiveness of her privacy. As they struggle with mutual attractions the sparks fly - and clash. A wonderful afternoon's read, PROGNOSIS: A BABY? MAYBE comes very highly recommended.	2003-11-29
885482:US	49693975	R32W4WIM1YY3QZ	1890768499	506081495	Wedding's Widow: The Seventh Cassidy McCabe Mystery	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Winner of WordWeaving Award for Excellence (for a series)	Despite her misgivings, Cassidy McCabe agrees to attend client Claire Linden's wedding. Claire had divorced an abusive husband and found new love in the three years she had been seeing Cassidy. But her fiancé seems a bit too good to be true. Tragically, Cassidy and husband reporter Zach Moran do not celebrate Claire's wedding but witness the groom's murder.<br />Just as the couple begins to speak their vows a shot rings out. Tragically, Max dies in his bride's arms. Having previously heard of Cassidy and Zach's sleuthing abilities, Claire appeals to Cassidy for their assistance. She wants them to investigate what appears to a professional hit. Soon they learn of a multitude of suspects who might want Max dead. Worse, their questions lead to a stalker who threatens Cassidy's life.<br />In the seventh Cassidy McCabe mystery WEDDING'S WIDOW, author Alex Matthews once again proves her excellence at creating well constructed mystery and a cast of characters readers cannot help but love. The irrepressible cat Starshine makes her appearance with feline grace and Cassidy's marvelous grandmother likewise lends zest to the tale. As Cassidy and Zach's relationship matures, the inevitable strains of daily living take a toll even as their affection binds them tightly. Their teamwork as investigators continues to strengthen as well. Moreover, the antagonist proves to be a bit of conundrum, making it hard to hate such a likeable fellow. With the rich nuances and subtle paradoxes that make life such a marvelous challenge, we award the Cassidy McCabe Mystery Series the WORDWEAVING AWARD FOR EXCELLENCE.	2003-11-27
885542:US	49693975	R2YCGB3854TXG9	0373711468	609233398	The One Safe Place (Harlequin Superromance No. 1146)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Sparkling romance -- Very highly recommended	Millionaire Doug Lambert murdered her sister and stalks Faith Constable. When a bullet grazes her arm, Faith accepts the fact that she and her nephew Spencer must seek safety. Indeed, her sister had not been the target, but the victim of mistaken identity. Suddenly she and Spencer hold a disaster mentality; ever mindful that in the midst of ordinary living tragedy can forever alter their lives. So Faith and Spencer seek refuge in Firefly Glen at the home of Reed Fairmont.<br />Two years ago Reed lost his wife, who was in her late twenties, to cancer. Now he opens his home to Faith and Spencer as a favor to a friend. While he hopes that Faith and Spencer will be safe with him, Reed mistrusts his ability to protect them. His wife's death has left doubt that he can protect those he cares for. Certainly the one thing he needs most however is being offered: a little Faith.<br />Author Kathleen O'Brien's gift for creating entrancing romance dazzles in ONE SAFE PLACE. Tragedy leaves both Doug and Faith in desperate need of healing. Along with a wounded child, they discover the healing power of love. Once again the community of Firefly Glen springs vividly to life, resulting in a community readers will long linger in. A remarkable read that will touch the reader's heart, ONE SAFE PLACE comes very highly recommended.	2003-11-27
885599:US	49693975	R3DAZYYM1BN1VQ	0373273290	339405360	Midnight Run (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1259)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Gripping! Very highly recommended	A desperate escape sends convicted killer Jack LaCroix to the doorstep of the woman who once loved him. Attorney Landis McAllister wants nothing to do with the man convicted of her brother's murder. Now he needs her help if he is to prove that he did not kill his partner. The money, the guns, the witnesses were all provided by Salt Lake City's most infamous drug lord.<br />Jack's lawyer holds the information pivotal in exonerating him. Unfortunately, the lawyer is found murdered before he can turn the information over to Jack, or obtain verification through means the court will accept. Now Jack needs Landis to help him prove his innocence. But their contact puts both their lives in danger, and soon they find themselves on a heedless midnight run for justice.<br />Author Linda Castillo's skill for creating gripping intensity sparkles in MIDNIGHT RUN. Landis faces profound ethical and moral dilemmas as the very foundation of her loyalty is questioned. Jack's determination and fierce passion lend the novel a tight edginess that keeps the drama unfolding quickly. With an intense pace, taut plotting and fantastic characterization, MIDNIGHT RUN comes very highly recommended.	2003-11-27
885714:US	49693975	ROYMIOHLCO8Z1	0373711476	949800042	The Last Honest Man : At the Carolina Diner  (Harlequin Superromance No. 1147)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Highly recommended	Adam DeVries does not talk very much. His sever stutter has kept him mostly silent until his outrage at inappropriate development in the small community of New Skye, North Carolina inspires him to become politically active. Now he has only three months until time to campaign and he intends to run for mayor. He hires a local speech therapist to help. While friends and siblings support his efforts, Adam's parents are less supportive.<br />Impressed by Adam's determination, Phoebe Moss agrees to help. Having once suffered from a debilitating stutter herself, she recognizes the inherent challenges of Adam's goals and the impossibility of time constraints. They agree to extra sessions at Phoebe's ranch and Adam dedicates himself to the task. When word leaks regarding all the time Adam spends alone with Phoebe, his campaign manager announces that Adam and Phoebe are engaged. But filling the role of engagement does result in delightful emotional implications.<br />Author Lynette Kent continues the At the Carolina Diner miniseries with style. THE LAST HONEST MAN deftly captures the challenges of a disability with gentle understanding and compassion. Adam's vulnerabilities sharply contrast with his moral and ethical strengths, lending this wounded hero charming appeal. Phoebe likewise sparkles as she attempts to help Adam and then falls in love. With a charming cast of secondary characters, THE LAST HONEST MAN presents a charming afternoon's read, coming highly recommended.	2003-11-27
886132:US	49693975	R1OG6G05NXGFEI	0373613725	804690386	Her Beautiful Assassin (Silhouette) (Family Secrets, No. 5)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Don't read the back of the book! Very highly recommended	Following her husband's death, Samantha Barnes becomes the interim U.S. ambassador to the Republic of Delmonico. She fills her sleepless nights with hard work that is satisfying. But her success comes at a price when a conspiracy at the highest levels threatens her safety. Someone wants her dead in order to stop a peace treaty, and it is up to Navy SEAL hero Marcus Evans to insure her safety.<br />Marcus does not initially care for his newest assignment, but he does appreciate an attractive woman like Samantha. When his superiors suspect a mole and cannot guarantee Samantha's safety while she is in Washington. Under orders to get her out of town, Marcus kidnaps her. But isolation and absolute security is not enough to thwart the danger that lurks around Samantha even as she looses her heart to her protector.<br />Do not read the back cover before plunging into HER BEAUTIFUL ASSASSIN if you dislike spoilers. But even if you do read the cover, author Virginia Kantra pens a strong enough read to rivet one's attention. With a couple of unexpected turns and plenty of deft plotting, Kantra once again proves her remarkable ability to pen strong romance with a twist. Indeed, Kantra exceeds expectations in HER BEAUTIFUL ASSASSIN which works equally as well as part of the Family Secrets series or a standalone. She skillfully includes information which ties the tale to the larger whole without getting lost in the explication that commonly grows tedious in such series. HER BEAUTIFUL ASSASSIN comes very highly recommended.	2003-11-27
890598:US	49693975	R1C609UKGS7OUM	037316985X	826185406	Cowboy Lessons	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Highly recommended	Amanda Johnson detests computer millionaire Scott Beringer who legally bought her father's spread, the Lazy Y Ranch, by paying delinquent back taxes. She wants Scott to leave while he needs to prove he can be an athletic geek if he can learn to become a cowboy. <br />Scott wants to be a cowboy. Unfortunately, four days a week in the gym tones muscles, but does not provide any prowess. Scott cuts a deal with Amanda. She provides him with cowboy lessons and he will sell her father's ranch back to her. Amanda agrees, but soon they both learn far more than they ever expected.<br />Author Pamela Britton pens a charming romance in COWBOY LESSONS. While the plot is familiar to all sub-genre fans, the marvelous cast of characters lends COWBOY LESSONS amusing originality and flair. Conflict isn't enough to keep this spunky couple apart, even as passion draws them ever closer. Amanda's father lends the novel a note of humor, setting this city slicker up for trouble. An entertaining afternoon's read, COWBOY LESSONS comes highly recommended.	2003-11-23
897153:US	49693975	R2345S0WWRUX4U	0373791097	975753509	Night Fever: Kiss & Tell (Harlequin Blaze, 105)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Sizziling! Very highly recommended	Dr Layla Hollister enjoys the latest Hollywood gossip rag while she waits for friends to join her at a restaurant. Unexpectedly, a hunky stranger approaches her. Sam Lovejoy believes that she must be a model with her good looks and natural assets in a town where everyone seems to have had plastic surgery. Indeed, before becoming the new administrator of Trident Medical Center, he had performed plastic surgery on a large section of the rich and famous. <br />Layla's initial negative comments about the new administrator lead him to conceal his identity and enjoy their evening before she discovers who Sam is. When Layla does learn his identity, she is frustrated to realize she had been attracted to a man with a reputation as a lady's man. Worse, she fears that her determination to retain her natural assets rather than improve them with cosmetic surgery would endanger a relationship with a man whose career centers around appearances.<br />Writing team Tori Carrington once again pens a marvelous romance in NIGHT FEVER, the first of the Kiss and Tell miniseries. A sensual feast with surprising depth of characterization, NIGHT FEVER really turns up the heat. Layla's past presents her with insecurities that are hard to overcome even as Sam learns lessons of judging others and love. A feisty read that uniquely balances the male and female perspective as only this writing duo can do, NIGHT FEVER comes very highly recommended.	2003-11-17
897591:US	49693975	RYJKDG76XEJJT	1592860818	68171375	The Gemini Trap	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very highly recommended	The Northern Vietnamese capture navy Pilot Lee Hall, setting into a motion a carefully planed and infinitely complex plan to learn the American's secrets. Once the Northern Vietnamese overwhelmed America forces with their advance technology obtained from Russia, but then the Americans develop electronic technology that allows them to overcome Northern Vietnamese air defense in battle. With Lee's capture, the Russian military plans to use him as bait.<br />Lee's adopted brother becomes the target. Braxton Hall is offered the opportunity to ransom his brother in return for handing over the Air force's electronic warfare secrets. When an attempted rescue fails, Brax learns of his brother's worsening condition even as he falls in love with a Russian secret agent. Katrina easily manipulates the distraught Braxton into the ultimate betrayal. But the story only grows more complex wit bogus data and Russian agents determined to succeed. <br />Readers who enjoyed author Charles Cronin's HILL GAMES will relish THE GEMINI TRAP. With a solid background drawn on Cronin's own professional experience as an independent consultant to the aerospace industry, THE GEMINI TRAP presents a riveting tale of espionage and the race to arms during the Vietnam era. The novel's balance of political intrigue and powerful characterizations results in a read that is impossible to put down. Indeed, the moral and ethical dilemma Braxton faces will tempt the most patriotic of hearts. The result is a powerful drama with multilayered depths comes very highly recommended.	2003-11-17
898509:US	49693975	R3I3RDU1SC7LYN	1410778843	700803572	Invisible Promise	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Recommended with reservations	High class living does not bring Richard Vahnil happiness despite his perfect life, perfect wife and perfect son. Extreme emphasis on brand names and sophisticated taste leaves a lonely emptiness as he realizes that he and wife have the same exact conversation every day without her ever truly hearing him. But the true emptiness lies within Richard Vahnil himself.<br />Back humor highlights Richard Vahnil's struggle to reconcile his domestic life and his fast-paced career. As his morals and values are called into question, Richard Vahil struggles to reconcile impossible situations. Unfortunately, he cannot anticipate the deepest challenges that await him. After all, nothing is ever what it seems. <br />Readers expecting strong narrative flow are advised to look elsewhere. Sentence fragments, odd word usage and choppiness make for uncomfortable reading in INVISIBLE PROMISE. For example: &quot;The rented 2002 Black Lincoln Town Car slammed tremendous. Physically crushing into the van's driver's side door. Throwing Stephen Festine completely across the front seat.&quot; Additionally, all men's names are listed as first and last name while women and children are called only by their first name-a powerful literary devise yet harshly disconcerting given the author's other stylistic choices. For readers expecting conventional formatting and literary flow, the author's unexpectedly jarring style will have them looking elsewhere. Readers seeking retro-advent guard stylism may find Benjamin Prager's style entertaining. INVISIBLE PROMISE is recommended with reservations.	2003-11-16
899193:US	49693975	R2FAO0J4I4VBWL	0373711581	435224566	Sanctuary: The Birth Place (Harlequin Superromance No. 1158)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Powerful and poignant -- Very highly recommended	Ten years ago, sixteen-year-old Hope Tanner sought sanctuary at The Birth Place in Enchantment, New Mexico. There she gave birth and placed her child for adoption. It was a heart breaking decision meant to protect her daughter from growing up like she did in a polygamist community. Now an obstetric nurse, hoe lives very quietly, creating an oasis of her home as a refuge from her past. But she cannot forget the extended family she left behind. <br />Finally Hope returns to the tiny community where she was raised. She comes away with her very pregnant sister Faith and a fear that they cannot escape the past. Determined to give her sister an opportunity for healing and independence, Hope returns with her sister to New Mexico to The Birth Place. Her return sparks unimaginable conflict for those who hold tragic secrets about her purported daughter and the nature of her adoption, and the adoptive father, Parker Reynolds.<br />The fifth novel of The Birth Place series sparkles with author Brenda Novak's characteristic flair for endearing tales. Novak's look into the polygamist lifestyle will amaze many readers with it poignant, bittersweet quality. Novak's carefully crafted tale of heartbreak and triumph becomes one of those powerful reads that is impossible to put down. Memorable characterizations and impossible situations makes SANCTUARY come very highly recommended.	2003-11-16
899876:US	49693975	R2FOSMIWGHNJOQ	0373227396	987186302	Unmarked Man (Bachelors at Large)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Sizzling! Very highly recommended	Cissy Spgnola worries over her missing mother and sister, threatening phone calls and attempts on her life. When she discovers a wad of cash stuffed under the front seat of her mother's front seat, a beloved cherry red Thunderbird and the only personal item her mother left behind, Cissy suspects the worst. Unfortunately, her inquiry leads to a dead witness in her hotel room. Someone clearly intends to stop her, and only one man can help. Unfortunately, he once stole her virginity and her heart, so the prospect of accepting his help promises nothing but trouble.<br />Nick Fiore trusts nothing and no one. While it leads to a lonely existence, such an approach to life makes for a great cop. But from their first kiss in years, Nick suddenly wants more. He knows that they will either kill each other or love each other as no other. Working together to find Cissy's missing family and to find the answers to a deadly conspiracy might rekindle their old romance, but they may not survive long enough to enjoy it.<br />Author Darlene Scalera once again demonstrates her dazzling talent for creating bold tales and memorable characters in UNMARKED MAN. Having suffered from devastating career losses, Cissy returns to her roots with a sassy attitude that conceals poignant vulnerabilities. But her losses open Cissy to new possibilities as she would never have otherwise crossed paths with Nick, bad boy turned cop. Nick's bold daring and Cissy's feisty verve result in a combustible mix readers will adore. A sizzling read that is impossible to put down, UNMARKED MAN comes very highly recommended.	2003-11-15
900332:US	49693975	R263M8O4YZCZPH	0373169922	962302690	C.E.O. & The Cookie Queen	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An entrancing read -- Highly recommended	When the nutrition police target Huntington Foods, C.E.O. Greg Rafferty worries over the adverse publicity or sales. So he heads to Ranger Springs, Texas to seek help from the creator of the recipes for the cookies, Carole Jacks. While he expects Alice from the Brady Bunch, he finds a beautiful woman. She is also the most frustrating, stubborn, yet enticing. Worse, soon he finds himself purchasing Carole's daughter's twelve-hundred pound steer that depends on him for two meals a day plush snacks. <br />Carole avoids email, faxes, and such, preferring all correspondence to arrive by mail. She very carefully protects her privacy even as she exchanges her recipes for financial security. So she completely mistrusts Greg's motives, especially when he purchases her daughter's prize winning bull. Carole assumes that Grey bought the bull and feigned interest in her to gain her cooperation. They certainly have little in common.<br />Author Victoria Chancellor adds another charming tale to her popular Ranger Springs series with THE C.E.O. &amp; THE COOKIE QUEEN. Carole's need for Greg in her life complicates her determination to protect her daughter in ways that are both believable and sympathetic. The town of Ranger Springs comes to life with a powerful cast of secondary characters and an entrancing atmosphere. THE C.E.O. &amp; THE COOKIE QUEEN is a delightful read that comes highly recommended.	2003-11-15
910826:US	49693975	R2GXS1BLGZI5R8	1894942213	171439060	Milky Way Marmalade	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Very highly recommended	An orange cube of gelatin contains the ultimate knowledge in of the universe. Called L'Orange, or the Akashic Records, or the Philosopher's Stone, or the Universal Hologram, and so on, it contains the past, present and future of all things. In the year 3265, Trinesmart Quark, II, a &quot;procurer&quot; of exotic foods, travels the universe in pursuit of his trade, until he tires of killing exotics merely for the satisfaction of the extremely wealthy and indulged. Soon he finds himself in pursuit of L'Orange and engaged in a surreal adventure.<br />Floating in the vastness of space, Caffrey discovers an ancient jukebox and recovers the sound of 20th century music. Living in a time when music no longer exists, Caffey finds that rock and roll speaks to his soul. His new passion lends new purpose to his life and he retire from procurement to spend his life on 20th century earth. But soon the android Poe 33, Portsmith to L'Orange finds him and ask for help. Suspiciously separated from L'Orange, Poe 33 needs Quark to help him before another entity can capture L'Orange and gain ultimate domination of the universe. <br />Author Michael DiCerto pens a novel that combines the outrageous fun of HITCHHIKER THROUGH THE GALLAXY and Monty Python with the search for cosmic meaning. Exotic imaginings and bizarre adventure lend MILKY WAY MARMALADE an irresistible appeal with its whimsical and outrageous style. Science fiction fans will discover DiCerto's gift of fabulous characterizations and wicked plotting lends a dynamic freshness to the genre. With rich nuances that become at once spiritual and satirical, MILKY WAY MARMALADE belongs on the keeper shelf. Very highly recommended.	2003-11-06
910982:US	49693975	R11HL7UNIUWDO	0970872801	450551352	Lights, Cubicle, Action! 100+ Directives for Survival in Corporate America	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very highly recommended	Judging by the cover, LIGHTS, CUBICLE, ACTION! appears to be yet another Dilbertesque comic book making light of the corporate world. Appearances in this case would be very deceiving. A quick perusal of its pages reveals the truth behind corporate rhetoric, unvarnished by any gloss or glamour. Instead, the wisdom offered is hard hitting, intensely critical and remarkable insightful. Indeed, its rather scathing evaluation of the cubeville reveals the harsh truths of cube dwelling that your boss would like you to forget.<br />A.A. Cantor captures the brutal heart of corporate America in every page. Occasionally amusing, always astute, each page deftly reveals the ruthlessness of business and the keys to survival. Moreover, LIGHTS, CUBICLE, ACTION! offers far more than the cheesy optimism of teamwork and chasing the cheese characteristic of most books within this genre. A must read for all cube dwellers, LIGHTS, CUBICLE, ACTION! comes very highly recommended.	2003-11-06
912728:US	49693975	R31ZP1E2WQ6FTE	0758205694	794176312	Jingle Bell Rock	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Six Christmas naughty but nice Christmas stories	Reviewing anthologies presents a challenge with so many stories in one compilation. JINGLE BELL ROCK, however, maintains an even pace among its six stories, resulting in a hot Christmas read that rocks! JINGLE BELL ROCK comes highly recommended. <br />\\"He Sees You when You're Sleeping\\" by Lori Foster brings together best friends. ... With an outrageously amusing ending, \\"He Sees You when You're Sleeping\\" nicely showcases Foster's gift for combining humor and sensuality.<br />\\"All She Wants for Christmas\\" by Janelle Denison combines a Christmas wish with daring ... A sexy, gentle tale of wishes coming true, Denison turns up the heat with flair! <br />\\"Turning Up the Heat\\" by Susan Donovan ... displays a dazzling gift for adding zest to the holidays!<br />\\"Baby, It's Cold Outside\\" by Donna Kauffman reunites high school sweethearts. ... Kauffman pens an endearing tale of passion and second chances.<br />\\"A Blue Christmas\\" by Alison Kent also reunites high school sweethearts, though under different circumstances.  ... A tale rich with emotional complexity, \\"A Blue Christmas\\" reveals an unexpected edge. <br />\\"The Nutcracker Sweet\\" by Nancy Warren brings a whole new level of passion to a difficult office relationship. ... Warren proves that her talent with much longer works certainly extends to the short story genre!	2003-11-05
933357:US	49693975	R3PKKBKDW18XL0	0373835779	250498719	West Of Glory (Author Spotlight)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	First single title release -- Highly recommended	Daisy Sutherland may not be in the big city anymore, but she still carries the drive to investigate inconsistencies even when warned away. So when a constable in the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and a resident of the local reservation both die in a shooting incident, Daisy becomes determined to uncover the truth, rather than follow the rest of the small town of Tamarack, Alberta's inclination to ignore the questionable circumstances of the event.<br />The shootout near the Blackfoot reserve leaves local residents stunned, but no less than Ben Goodstriker. He cannot make sense of the circumstances regarding the death of his cousin, and eventually agrees to work with Daisy to uncover the truth. When Daisy suddenly disappears, Ben devotes himself to finding the truth and the woman who has captured his heart. <br />In her first single title release, author Judith Bowen pens a fascinating mystery in WEST OF GLORY. Her background in investigative reporting lends the novel a feel of authenticity and immediacy. Moreover, the strength of the mystery and a plethora of suspects will pique the reader's interest, despite the slow pace of the beginning. Indeed, Bowen once again demonstrates her keen eye for capturing the nuances of the heart and the power of a story well told. WEST OF GLORY comes highly recommended.	2003-10-20
940030:US	49693975	R2D4Z7T3MFYU7L	0373169914	60335669	Pregnancy Countdown	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Rich emotional complexity -- highly recommended	Instead of attending her best friend's wedding, Nora Summers attends her beloved Grandmother's funeral. After a six hour flight delay, she looks forward to sleeping in her own bed. At one in the morning, she certainly never expects the tuxedo clad Mark Walker to meet her plane. Grief, relief and need combine in an unexpected plea that he not leave her alone. Never mind she broke up with him three years ago not because of his actions, but because she did not believe him capable of a committed relationship with her. Nor did she explain her reasoning.<br />Nora broke his heart three years ago, but Mark welcomes an opportunity for second a second chance. After a night of beautiful love making, he certainly does not expect her to banish him the same way she did three years ago. He does not know that her family history has bred distrust and fear that must be confronted if they are to ever be together. But he will have to work quickly if he wants to convince her that he wants them to be a family.<br />Author Linda Randall Wisdom pens a tale of deep emotion and profound trust issues in PREGNANCY COUNTDOWN. On one hand, some readers may grow a bit impatient with a heroine who judges a man based on past experience and refuses to give him a fair chance or even an honest explanation. On the other hand, deep emotional scars lend the novel a multifaceted depth and will spark reader sympathy. In addition, despite the title, Nora's pregnancy becomes not the focus of the novel, but sharply encourages a need for communication and an opportunity for the relationship to grow. PREGNANCY COUNTDOWN comes highly recommended.	2003-10-14
940917:US	49693975	R1EHNS707EA51G	0373169876	315634883	My Big Fake Green-Card Wedding	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Zesty! Recommended	Soon to turn thirty, Melina Kostos worries that her traditional Greek family will choose a husband for her. With her position as a bilingual reception at the American embassy in Greece about to be eliminated, she needs a job and green card to assure her future. When she overhears Adam Blake's need of a housekeeper and a nanny, she offers her services in exchange for a green card. Adam surprises himself by responding it is not really a nanny or a housekeeper that he needs, but a wife. Soon they agree to a marriage of convenience.<br />Melina and Adam agree to a story of love at first sight by way of explain their hasty nuptials. He meets her family, they quickly marry, and within a week fly from Greece to the United States. Despite their mutual attraction, they maintain their physical distance, at least when they can. But soon Melina realizes she has fallen in love, and if her marriage to be real, then it is time to seduce her husband. <br />Author Mollie Molay adds zest to the traditional marriage of convenience plot in MY BIG FAKE GREEN-CARD WEDDING. While the plot is somewhat predictable, her lively characterizations and humorous approach lends it an air of charm. As Greek tradition clashes with American modernity, the result is a delightful afternoon's read. With an adorable child to add her own charm, MY BIG FAKE GREEN-CARD WEDDING comes recommended.	2003-10-14
941352:US	49693975	R36XPV3RMOE8FW	0373691459	161918581	Room   But Not Bored!	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Delightful! Very highly recommended	Most people dream of a beach house where they can enjoy the sand and the surf, but not practical Ariel Adams. She does not like salt, sand and mildew. With her partner defecting out of their consulting business in the name of love, Ariel must strike out on her own two years ahead of her plan. Her former partner felt so guilty for her abandonment that she practically gave Ariel the beach house. Ariel accepts the house only because her financial situation required a tight budget until she can restart her business. <br />Unfortunately, when Ariel arrives at the beach house, she finds a contractor in residence, complete with a dog and a plethora of beach toys. Worse, Jake Renner decides that he would rather make himself indispensable to Ariel than leave. Surely he can distract Ariel from the gaping hole between their bedrooms with divine muffins and an office with an ocean view. <br />Dawn Atkins talent for unexpected hilarity and passionate romance dazzles in ROOM...BUT NOT BORED. Gritty sand and wood rot lends Atkin's lastest tale unexpected humor as the ever practical Ariel confronts the free spirited Jake. Her lengthily lists and determined practicality sharply contrast his low key approach to life. Indeed, Jake breaks through Ariel's control with his own unique brand of risk taking and outrageous pleasure, even as he conceals unexpected depths. Moreover, sensuality and passion lend these marvelously developed characters just the appeal that readers have come to expect from Atkin's talented pen. ROOM...BUT NOT BORED comes very highly recommended.	2003-10-14
948150:US	49693975	R3F3ROS35DM5P1	0425192784	248440184	Witching Moon (The Moon Series, Book 3)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Absoltely memorable characters -- Highly recommended	In the South Georgian small town of Wayland, a coven of witches waits to take their revenge. A hundred of year heritage of the town rising against their own who possess paranormal gifts has left a burning rage and determination for revenge. Led by Falcon, the coven plans to take revenge on the town whose citizens killed generations of parents and grandparents.<br />Adam Marshall comes to the Olakimpa swamp, a privately owned Nature's Refuge, to take the place of its previous ranger, Ken White, who was killed in an unsolved shooting. Soon after arriving, a mysterious scent leads the shapeshifter to witness a coven of witches cavorting in the moonlight. The powerful herbs cast on the fire mesmerize him until he must flee for his life with the coven in hot pursuit.<br />The next morning Adam returns to the site, to find a woman gathering herbs. Biologist Sara Watson researches the local fauna for commercial medicinal plants as part of an agreement between the swamp owner and Granville Pharmaceuticals. Shortly after her arrival in Wayland, Sara begins to have an awakening of her psychic talents - gifts she has repressed since she was four. As Adam and Sara struggle to control their mutual attraction they quickly find themselves joining efforts against danger as the coven targets them next.<br />Author Rebecca York pens an exciting read in WITCHING MOON. Adam's use of his shapeshifting abilities adds an unusual element to this police procedural even as his sensuality lends the romance delightful heat. Sara's struggle to reconcile her abilities with her determination to fit into the ordinary world leads to an intriguing internal struggle. Indeed, the characterizations, including wonderfully developed secondary characters, are the novel's greatest strength. While York's knowledge of Wicca seems superficial at best, and requires the reader to accept paranormal gifts as the sole definition of a witch, the cult's combined abilities do result in a riveting read. WITCHING MOONcomes highly recommended.	2003-10-08
948481:US	49693975	RSARL3DJVQ7WE	0758205937	642648314	Bad Boys Online	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A hot read! Highly recommended	Technology and eroticism blend seamlessly in Erin McCarthy's BAD BOYS ONLINE resulting in an incredibly hot read. McCarthy displays a refreshing gift for capturing sensuality and exploiting possibility in these novellas, giving reason to keep an eye on this new author. While office antics might not be recommended in reality, but as fantasy material they are red hot!<br />In Hard Drive, Mack Stone surprises Kindra Hill while she reads a sexy email from her online lover. Surprised that his very proper coworker would enjoy such naughtiness, Mack persuades Kindra to give him twelve hours to prove that the pleasures of reality supercede what her cyber-lover offers. <br />In Press Any Key, a previous disastrous office encounter burned Jared Kincaid on the possibility of dating a coworker. Unfortunately, his boss is determined that Jared and Candy Appleton work out their differences using three hour online counseling service. They cannot leave the boss' office without the certificate of completion.<br />In User Friendly, someone hacks Halley's website, replacing her professional photo with an explicit one. With her catering business on the line, she appeals to long time friend and web master Evan to fix the site. Soon their passion of an entirely different sort replaces their plots of revenge.	2003-10-08
954832:US	49693975	RTUVC5XD8HRSA	0373169884	387397132	The Playboy's Protegee	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Matchmaking and business - Very highly recommended	Joe Jacobsen uses his company's mentoring program to play matchmaker for his grandson Harry Sander. While Harry and Megan MacGregor have relegated the sparks they throw to animosity, Joe sees things differently. Certainly his previous matchmaking successes prove his ability. <br />Harry wants a vice-presidency in the family business, and if his participation in the Jacobsen enterprises program to recruit and retain upper-level management will pave the way then so be it. That is, until he learns that he will be mentoring Megan, a woman who has gone out of her way to make him look bad since her arrival in the company.<br />Megan believes that Harry has not liked her since a year ago when she was hired and questioned the validity and rationale of his ideas. He has made it perfectly clear that he would fire her if he could, and now he is to be her mentor. Megan believes that he only has his job because he is the grandson of the CEO. Further, Megan needs this career opportunity if she is to continue to care for her mother who has multiple sclerosis.<br />Despite their mutual animosity, Megan and Harry discover that are a surprisingly effective team in THE PLAYBOY'S PROTEGEE. Harry's playboy reputation and Megan's outspoken ways quickly reveal surprising depth of character. As they fight their mutual attraction, however, they also discover that their vulnerabilities threaten to destroy that which they hold most dear. Once again author Michele Dunaway displays her consummate skill for combining tenderness and passion in a read impossible to put down. An endearing read with a delightfully meddlesome grandfather, THE PLAYBOY'S PROTEGEE comes very highly recommended.	2003-10-02
955257:US	49693975	R2AC5QYPR5JPAY	0373791046	493793932	Up to No Good: Invitations to Seduction (Harlequin Blaze, 100)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A sensual feast � Highly recommended	Micki Carmichael ran away from home when she was sixteen, finding motivation to remain on the streets for the last five years while she looked after her friend Danielle. While Micki had been close to cleaning up her bad habits and reconciling with her family, Danielle had just escaped a family that substituted material possessions for love. Now Danielle is going to drug rehab thanks to Micki's intervention. Meanwhile, Danielle has orchestrated an unusual thank you, arranging for her previously distant brother to provide a week long fantasy for Micki.<br />Feeling guilty for not being aware of his younger sister's brothers, Bas falls into her plans for Micki fairly easily. After all, Micki basically saved Danielle's life. With unlimited funds and a commitment to pleasure, he arranges a marvelous week for them to explore the possibilities of Micki's fantasy. Unfortunately, neither one of them suspect that someone watches, and danger will escalate until it becomes obvious that someone wants to get to Bas by attacking those people he holds most dear. <br />A lively and entertaining read, UP TO NO GOOD showcases Julie Elizabeth Leto's usual talent for sensual storytelling. While the sizzle definitely satisfies, the taut plotting keeps the tale moving. Readers who had eagerly awaited Micki's story will discover a fascinatingly complex character. Her savvy flair and unexpected vulnerabilities certainly capture both the reader's and Sebastian's heart. A study of opposites, Micki and Sebastian has more in common than what might be immediately obvious. Their insecurities and lack of self-esteem not only level the playing field but also bring them together in unexpected ways. Provocative, romantic and fun, UP TO NO GOOD comes highly recommended.	2003-10-02
955606:US	49693975	R81L9LX7LC0B7	0373711549	945385300	The Secret Father: The Calvert Cousins (Harlequin Superromance No. 1154)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Powerful family drama - Highly recommended	Nineteen-year-old Olivia Kendall is pregnant when she sees the headline reporting the death of her child's father Zach Calvert. He had been a pilot in the Navy. In that moment her entire life shifts, and she never even had the chance to inform him of her pregnancy. Despite pressure from her father, Olivia went on raise her son and to build a career. Six years later a news broadcast includes a picture of Zach, who is now a small town sheriff. A life of privilege has not filled her son's desire for a father, but by contacting him Zach opens Olivia to vulnerabilities she has long set aside.<br />A crash and a head injury robbed Zach of several years of memory. He still discovers skills about himself that he did not know he had. Now divorced, Zach struggles to build a life for himself as a non-custodial father. He is absolutely stunned to meet Olivia and learn that he has a son, but determined to be a good parent to him as well. While he has no memory of Olivia, Zach cannot resist the powerful attraction between them. But she still bears the wounds of his unintentional abandonment.<br />Anna Adams creates a beautiful tale of second chances in THE SECRET FATHER. By limiting Zach's amnesia to a few years, Adams creates marvelous tension without falling victim to the typical amnesia story devices. Moreover, Olivia strikes a delicate balance between independence and keeping peace with her father, never hesitating to assert herself when necessary. Zach is a powerful sympathetic hero as he copes with a difficult ex-wife and profound parenting challenges. Even the ex-wife proves to be a wonderful secondary character with combination of cattiness and vulnerabilities. A powerfully told tale of difficult family relationships, THE SECRET FATHER comes highly recommended.	2003-10-01
956108:US	49693975	R1J2RVBDX18BXD	0758204531	86146164	Standing in the Shadows (The McCloud Brothers, Book 2)	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	A long way from his job as an FBI agent, Connor McCloud investigates unfaithful spouses these days. When an investigation with the FBI went badly wrong, resulting in his partner's death and his own near fatal injuries, Connor spent two months in a comma. Now only his morose reflections keep him company when he refuses to answer his brothers' calls. That is, memories that includes thoughts of Erin Riggs, the daughter of the man who had set him up to die. Now his nemesis, Kurt Novak, has escaped prison and only Connor understands the dire threat the madman poses for Erin. <BR>Her father's arrest led to the downward spiral of Erin's family. Her mother's psychotic break and her sister's self destruction all stem from her father's corruption. Now she struggles to pay her mother's bills and save her sister even as Novak closes his trap. He considers Erin's escape from a kidnapping attempt to be a personal insult. Now Novak poses as a collector of La Tene period Celtic artifacts, appealing to Erin's professional skills and knowledge to lure her into his trap. <BR>Neither Connor nor Erin have acknowledged the passion they share. First he had been much too old for her, then her father's arrest occurred before he could ask her out. Now her father's legacy silently keeps them at a distance. Only Connor's conviction that she is in danger forces him out of seclusion to protect her. But Erin's independent nature does not take easily to his determination to become her bodyguard. Worse, Erin comes to believe that Connor sees nonexistent threats. <BR>In BEHIND CLOSED DOORS, author Shannon McKenna established her gift for combining daring sensuality with tension filled danger. Her sequel, STANDING IN THE SHADOWS, once again proves her rising star vibrant, terrifying prose interlaced with sensuality. Specifically, the sexual tension between Connor and Erin sizzles, even as their passion echoes the deadly passion of a madman. A novel impossible to put down, STANDING IN THE SHADOWS earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2003-10-01
957051:US	49693975	R3LHA3ZWLC45GF	0373791070	336587838	Hers to Take: Women Who Dare (Harlequin Blaze, 103)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Witty dialogue and a suspenseful plot	A.J. Camacho does not like people sneaking up on him with guns. It makes him testy. So when San Diego Detective Sienna Parker arrives to investigate his brother's apartment, he disarms her with the lightening speed of his profession as a Navy SEAL. While he might not play by the rules Sienna holds so dear, with his stepbrother suspected of selling arms, A.J. and Sienna must join forces to discover the truth. <br />Meanwhile, Sienna's closest friends challenge her with a bet. They all agree to sleep with the sexy men in their lives, bring back a souvenir to prove their success. But Sienna's approach to her life leaves little room for more than a brief fling with her sexy maverick. With a truckload of guns on the street, her first priority must be to see that justice is served, regardless of the toll it might take on her and A.J.<br />Three women accept a dare to seduce the sexy men in their lives in the new miniseries Women who Dare. Author Karen Anders kicks off the sensual feast with HERS TO TAKE, once again demonstrating her skill in creating breathtaking intensity, resulting in a fast paced, sexy read fans will adore. Both A.J. and Sienna are strong, resourceful characters determined to follow their individual code of ethics. A.J. does provides a decided counterpoint to Sienna's by the book ways, not hesitating to play the maverick in order to get the job done. Witty dialogue and a suspenseful plot keep the novel moving at a fast pace, with sensual interludes that will make the reader's toes curl. Be sure to watch for Lana's story in November and Kate's romance in January. HERS TO TAKE comes very highly recommended.	2003-09-30
957976:US	49693975	R2JTCWEQRIDD0F	031298460X	529940744	Complete Abandon	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Sensually titillating! Very highly recommended	A scandalous observation leaves spinster Emma Fitzgerald with unfettered desire and outrageous daring. Rather than feeling appalled at witnessing a tryst between John Clayton, the new Viscount Wakefield, and his paramour, Emma longs to sample such risqué behavior. Unfortunately, she has arrived on a serious mission, as the Viscount has served eviction notices on many of her elderly and widowed neighbors, as well as her own family. Temporary distraction does not put her off from her purpose; rather, it prepares her.<br />Under the prim, proper exterior of a vicar's daughter, Emma conceals passions to match John's. Her saucy daring and bodacious maneuverings captures his attention, promising an allure far beyond what John has shared with the jaded women of London. Moreover, John's attempts to protect while dissuading Emma fail miserably when she turns the situation to her advantage. Suddenly this bad boy realizes he has met his match in the most unexpected of ways.<br />Cheryl Holt creates a searing tale of passion in COMPLETE ABANDON. Holt provides an amusing afternoon's read with vivid characterizations that spring to life. A study of complete opposites, Emma and John come together with unexecuted hilarity and outrageousness. Emma's sensual nature sparkles under this bad boy's touch. Remarkably, she does not attempt to tame his wayward ways; rather, she glories in both his strengths and in his flaws. John, however, has a lot to learn about women regardless of his varied experience if he wishes to ever keep the heart of this remarkable woman. Secondary characters likewise sparkle with Holt's characteristic style. Witty, daring and delightful, COMPLETE ABANDON comes very highly recommended.	2003-09-30
958103:US	49693975	R1SBGDFBLU41O5	0758205481	699924359	Unexpected	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Scintillating fall read! Very highly recommended	Ray Vereker breaks all her rules in accepting her latest assignment. Leaving behind her hammer and tool belt, Ray picks up her weapon to find Eli Conners' missing brother. While she acquiesces to Eli's demand to take him along, Ray remains determinedly in charge of this rescue mission. For years Ray has been a successful mercenary, yet this assignment somehow feel much different than all the rest, threatening to spiral out of her control as she discovers an unexpected attraction to her employer. <br />Even as he tries to grow closer to her, Ray remains an enigma for Eli. He knows her abilities, her experience and her success, but he does not have names or dates. She does not look cutthroat enough, powerful enough, or hardened enough to pull of this assignment. Indeed, Eli finds it hard to believe that Ray is a mercenary until he sees her in action. But his desperation to get his brother out of Central America and her insider's knowledge mean that he must risk everything on this unexpected woman, even it means his heart.<br />Author Lori Foster's ability to pen sultry, titillating romance is not exactly UNEXPTECTED, and fans will be delighted that she once again delivers in spades. Ray's combination of fierce warrior strength and carefully concealed femininity results in a dazzling character. Likewise, Eli's determination to get closer to her despite her reserve resoles in unexpected challenge and pleasure. Indeed, Eli and Ray prove why Foster has become one of the hottest authors in the business. UNEXPECTED comes very highly recommended.	2003-09-30
958125:US	49693975	R12O1IBX7S1ZPE	0373791062	961373690	After Hours: Put Your Guy On the Cover (Harlequin Blaze, 102)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Vicki Lewis Thompson at her best -- Very highly recommended	With her very staid boyfriend out of the country for the week, Eileen Connolly wants to fulfill her most secret fantasy. She wants sex with a rugged, dark stranger - a man she would never have to see again before she commits to a life time of stability. With her darkest desires fulfilled, Eileen thinks she could accept Benjamin's proposal and move in with him. But rather than finding her fantasy man in a bar somewhere, Eileen unexpectedly encounters him in her office after hours installing telephone lines. He is everything she wants: single, footloose and fancy free and not the kind of guy like her boyfriend whose life is run by business.<br />Doing an installation rather than soothing irritable clients brings Shane Nichols a sense of satisfaction. His life is a mess owning a company that controls his every moment, so working with his hands brings a sense of accomplishment he had almost forgotten. He has been fantasizing about the blond lawyer in this office since the first time he caught a glimpse of her, so when she suddenly appears with a proposition, he accepts. But Shane wants more than one episode of fabulous sex. Now he wants to convince Eileen that he is the man she needs for permanence. <br />AFTER HOURS is author Vicki Lewis Thompson at her best with a hot plot, sizzling characterizations and sensuality that leaves fans begging for more. On one hand, Eileen's determination to limit their relationship quickly gives way to something more, and she does not belittle nor denounce her involvement with the telephone installer, even when caught red handed. On the other hand, Shane's determination to be loved for he is not for what he is strikes a sympathetic cord that earns instant forgiveness for his mild deception. AFTER HOURS is a daring fantasy of sex with a stranger that could easily slip into shallow or dangerous, but, with Thompson's skillful pen, this tale sidesteps the obvious and becomes something intriguing and fun. AFTER HOURS comes very highly recommended.	2003-09-30
979206:US	49693975	R2UMBNQ62V7SOU	0446612944	709276242	Tall Dark and Cajun	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Highly recommended	When her relationship with her fiancé goes up in flames, Rachel Fortier sets their furniture and exercise equipment on fire. Then she heads south in a rented red pickup truck with a vanity license plate reading &quot;Redhot&quot; and a bumper sticker reading &quot;Decorators do it better&quot;. Rachel looks forward to meeting her birth grandmother Gizelle and enjoying some down time. Rachel expects Tara, she gets swamp and a Voodoo grandmother who does not approve of her new love interest. <br />His face disfigured during Desert Storm, pilot Remy LeDeux expects rejection, not the heated response of this Yankee woman. Remy needs to buy some of Gizelle's adjoining land so he has enough acreage to meet DEA requirements so he can do aerial surveillance for the government. Instead, all he can think about is Rachel applying Feng Shui to his houseboat in the bayou, thanks to his Tante Lulu's interference. The explosive heat building between Remy and Rachel threatens to set the bayou ablaze, but they really know very little about each other, and their erotic promise may reach an unexpected peak as they discover the magic of the bayou. <br />From senior citizen diva Tante Lulu to local Voodoo witch Gizelle, author Sandra Hill creates a rich cast of characters guaranteed to entertain in TALL, DARK AND CAJUN. Outrageous antics and lively hilarity keeps the pace brisk as Remy and Rachel discover the heat of the Louisiana bayou. Author Hill has a gift for combining humor and sensitivity in a rich tale that will keep the pages turning. While TALL, DARK AND CAJUN is the sequel of LOVE POTION, it works just as well as a standalone. With a rich Cajun flavor adding just the right zest, TALL, DARK AND CAJUN comes highly recommended.	2003-09-11
996048:US	49693975	R31Q38O480MURT	0312983034	537731477	What A Girl Wants	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Fiesty! Highly recommended	As teenagers, Ava Daniels and Harper Reynolds are close until an unfortunate night of vulnerability and miscommunication results in disaster. Ava never forgot the rejection and Harper never forgot his unfortunate behavior. Subsequent encounters are either avoided or decidedly cool. Then years later Harper's Aunt Flossie passes away, leaving them in joint possession of her Victorian house. <br />Ava desperately needs the house to extract her brother from a poor living/school situation. Moreover, she wants both her father and brother to have the opportunities a better neighborhood would afford. But Harper is equally determined to help his favorite charity. He is part of a group that helps runaway teens and need has far outstripped resources. His inheritance would nicely accommodate their needs. In addition to struggling for ownership of the house, however, both Ava and Harper have their own personal problems adding passion to their conflict.<br />Author Reon Laudat delight fans with IT'S A LOVE THANG and returns to show just exactly WHAT A GIRL WANTS. While the theme might be familiar, Laudat adds a charming and captivating element with her delightful characters who lend the novel remarkable freshness. Indeed, Ava's grudge and Harper's guilt provide powerful impetus for a feisty relationship when they share living space. Their mutual desire is matched by their need to retain ownership of their inheritances, resulting in a rollicking read that keeps that sizzles. This fast paced, amusing ethnic romance will appeals to all lovers of romantic comedy. WHAT A GIRL WANTS comes highly recommended.	2003-08-28
996520:US	49693975	R24A1LBDZR6KZO	0373691394	674921587	Too Close For Comfort	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Light and breezy reading for a hot summer day!	Over the weekend, Jeffery Bradshaw intends to fly to Arctic Luck, Alaska to scout the location he intends for a romantic comedy called Sixty Below. An Argonaut Studios board meeting is scheduled for early Monday morning, and he has only a matter of hours to check out the proposed location. Success with this series is critical for Jeff's career, meaning promotion from Acquisitions Director to Vice President of Development. But Jeffrey does not count on the obstinacy of one pilot named Cyd Thompson.<br />When she learns of Jeff's plans, Cyd takes an unscheduled detour, using weather as the excuse to strand him in Katimuk instead of Artic Luck. Cyd's attitude bewilders Jeff because he does not know of her determination to preserve Artic Luck just as it is. They share quarters at her aunt's cabin in Katimuk while waiting for weather to clear, and soon Cyd uses every means at her disposal to prevent Jeff from not only reaching Artic Luck but also making his Monday meeting. <br />Be ready to suspend disbelief and allow some rather impossible situations to provide a rollicking ride in TOO CLOSE FOR COMFORT. While coincidence and fate play heavy hands in this wildly improbable plot, the strength of these characters and the savvy secondary cast make the read absolutely worthwhile. Surprisingly character motivation lends Cyd an intriguing and sympathetic background that only slowly becomes clear to the reader as Jeff gets to know her. As Cyd and Jeff grow into there adversarial and yet passionate relationship, surprisingly hot sex in this frigid climate makes for sizzling delight. Perfect for a late summer read, TOO CLOSE FOR COMFORT comes highly recommended.	2003-08-28
998291:US	49693975	R61BQWRNDK1AP	0373245564	473953381	Prince and Future...Dad? (Silhouette Special Edition No. 1556) (Viking Brides series)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Terrific series -- Very highly recommended	Gullandrian tradition holds that on Midsummer's Eve no one can be called to account for amorous indiscretions. Even the king's daughters indulge in revelry. Unfortunately, they are also still held responsible for the consequences of their actions when pregnancy is involved, as Princes Liv Thorson discovers. And while she might prefer to quietly return to her life in America, her Viking prince and kingly father may have other ideas.<br />Rumors spread quickly in the palace, and within twenty-four hours not only had Liz endured the traditional family revelation of pregnancy, including nausea and rash, but so has the man responsible heard of her condition. Prince Finn Danelaw was entranced by the woman he held in his arms, and would certainly fulfill his responsibilities to her. Unfortunately, he may have to follow her America to do so. In a country where bastard children are badly stigmatized, and a king demands marriage, Finn has his task cut out for him if he is to convince the princess that she has his heart.<br />This reviewer must confess to a personal love for this series. Something about the combination of historic alpha males clashing with strong Americans is incredibly appealing. Indeed, author Christine Rimmer has a flair for capturing the essence of historical flavor, yet presenting it in a modern setting, which is absolutely captivating. The amusing celebration on Midsummer's Eve is a delightful beginning to an ancient consequence! And it is such a pleasure to watch the rebellion of American daughters in the face of an archaic father with a heart of gold. I can hardly wait to see how the third and most independent princess of all handles her prince charming. PRINCE AND FUTURE...DAD comes very highly recommended.	2003-08-26
999519:US	49693975	R2DNO45DK7NEG1	0373691351	990505534	Say You Want Me	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A delightful read -- Highly recommended	Nurse Joni Montgomery needs a man to keep her matchmaking grandma at bay. With Grandma visiting soon, Joni results to a desperate blind date in hopes of keeping Grandma satisfied with her active love life. Otherwise, Grandma will select just the wrong kind of daredevil for her security minded granddaughter. When Joni arrives at the restaurant for her blind date, rather than the balding ordinary man she expects, Joni encounters a hottie. <br />While she might prefer a safe accountant, Connor Sullivan's sensual promise lures Joni into dangerous territory. So when the &quot;real&quot; blind date appears, Joni finds herself gently sending him away, much to Connor's delight. He cannot believe that the woman of his dreams has materialized at his table, and Connor intently insures that she does not just walk away. So when she later explains her need for a temporary boyfriend, Conner is happy to oblige. Perhaps his act will be so perfect Joni will want the real thing. Too bad that, as a cop, Connor is precisely what Joni claims to not want!<br />Author Cindi Myers pens a delightful romance with SAY YOU WANT ME. Heroine Joni voices the fears of a woman who dreads the possibility of loss, even at the risk of revealing her in an unfavorable light at times. Carter's charming persistence and cheerful nature tolerates Joni's fears with good humor and grace. Add an outrageous grandma and the result is a lively, light read fans will enjoy. SAY YOU WANT ME comes highly recommended.	2003-08-25
1001525:US	49693975	R2NB155FF3JUJS	0373292686	190245463	A Dangerous Seduction	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Another hit from this rising star -- Very highly recommended	Motivated by revenge, Morgan Pendaris carefully orchestrates the downfall of his nemesis. Nineteen years ago, the elder Hayne stole his family estate and Morgan vowed to see him in chains, to deprive him of possessions, to ride his horses and to see crush his loved ones. In 1816, Morgan regains the family estate, purchases the son Cordell Hayne's debts and plans to leave Cordell's wife homeless. But meeting the wife utterly changes Morgan's plans.<br />Eulalia's gentle ways, love of growing things, and quiet distain of her abusive husband charms Morgan. Indeed, her warm welcome leaves him disarmed. Eulalia's Romany grandmother also remains in residence, lending an intriguing element to the tale. When Cordell's ship apparently crashes and it seems that he has perished, Morgan offers her the position of temporary governess for his nephew. But sabotage, nightmares and murder provide almost insurmountable impediments to the road to happiness.<br />Fans will recall author Patricia Rowell's highly successful A PERILIOUS ATTRACTION and will cheer her return with A DANGEROUS SEDUCTION. This exciting Regency romantic suspense provides marvelous characterizations and a suggestion of the paranormal, keeping the plot moving at a brisk pace. Secondary characters likewise sparkle with Rowell's incomparable style. Keep an eye on Rowell's rising star as she continues to provide fabulous entertainment. A DANGEROUS SEDUCTION comes very highly recommended.	2003-08-23
1003204:US	49693975	RWNRTGWFM3139	037369136X	267199969	Flirting With Temptation  (Single In The City)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Don't miss this one! Very highly recommended	In exchange for a makeover and an introduction to her biological father, Corie Benjamin agrees to fly to San Francisco despite her death bed promise to her mother. Certainly her reputation for recklessness does not match her staid appearance. Indeed, bridge club meetings, quilting circles and Friday evening book discussions fail to offer this small town librarian the kind of romance she seeks. So when reporter Jack Kincaid offers her an introduction to her father, Corie cannot resist the opportunity. <br />Jack Kincaid seeks his own answers to the past, and believes that Corie's family ties might lead to answers. His aunt disappeared twelve years ago, and Jack believes that her father Benny Lewis was behind her disappearance. The police had been of no assistance and recently Jack's own publications have rekindled old animosity. Jack intends to use Corie to gain an interview that might give him the answers he seeks. But Jack does not realize just how complicated things might get, or how deeply his heart might become involved.<br />This reviewer must make a confession to adoring this series, and especially FLIRTING WITH TEMPTATION. Author Cara Summers does divine job of capturing the flavor of San Francisco right down to the irrepressible and delightful Franco Rossi, who brings the man-magnet skirt from Manhattan to the west coast. Readers will be clamoring for more appearances from this playwright turned matchmaker! With a light hearted story and a marvelous cast of characters, FLIRTING WITH TEMPTATION goes straight to the keeper shelf. Very highly recommended.	2003-08-22
1003790:US	49693975	R2JBNK1G6R96UC	0373711492	360894831	The Searchers (Harlequin Superromance No. 1149)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Powerful! Very highly recommended	With her past firmly left behind, prominent attorney Maya Velaquez hopes to become a judge. But Houston's dark winter days bring memories of a man who lived and died in shadows, and of the son she birthed and grieved in another lifetime. Maya learned well that life promises no guarantees. Still, she never expected the brother of the man she once loved to show up in her office.<br />Columbian Shepard Reyes never knew about his brother's child, or the possibility that it yet lived. When one of his workers shares the truth, after eighteen years of silence, repaying a debt of honor, he greets the news with disbelief. Shepard certainly never expected to seek out his leftist guerilla brother's lover. But with the possibility of an heir to the family emerald mines, Shepard feels compelled to seek the truth. Soon both Maya and Shepard are drawn into a compelling world of danger, intrigue and love.<br />With her tantalizingly soul searing style, author Kay David once again presents a tale impossible to put down in THE SEARCHERS. Maya and Shepard confront the present with explosive consequences, in a page turning story impossible to put down. Maya's intriguing past and her current life reveal a woman who developed strong ethics and a profound sense of responsibility. Shepard's willingness to seek the truth, regardless of the consequences, provides exactly the strong hero that this heroine deserves. Maya's pain over her lost child and her hope that he yet lives will touch reader's hearts profoundly. THE SEARCHERS comes very highly recommended.	2003-08-21
1004866:US	49693975	R4WLOQ31KZAY	0373711484	672072271	Married in Haste : You, Me & the Kids (Harlequin Superromance No. 1148)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Tragedy and triumph - Very highly recommended	An earthquake devastates Seattle, forever changing the lives of school teacher Abby Drummond and pediatrician Ben Galloway. Their previous plans for a romantic skiing vacation over spring break take a backseat to necessity. Before they can leave town, the earthquake hits the city and Abby finds herself leading students to safety even as Ben struggles to the hospital to cope with emergencies. Life will never be the same.<br />Before the dust even settles, Abby learns that her brother and sister-in-law have died, leaving five boys for her to raise. Ben likewise finds himself caring for his two nieces. Practical concerns keep Ben and Abby from spending much time together until they decide to pool their resources. After barely seeing one another and trying to help each other when they can, Ben and Abby agree that marriage seems like a reasonable solution. But with so many children involved and not a word spoken about love, both Ben and Abby are ill prepared for the consequences they face. <br />Author Roz Denny Fox has a powerful gift for taking difficult situations and turning them into poignant tales of love and healing. In MARRIED IN HASTE, tragedy creates a blended family that faces the difficulties of grief and change. Although the precociousness of the children might at times prove distracting, Abby's story sparkles with rich emotion and powerful attraction. Her irritation with Ben's dominance, her guilt over her family, and her sense of responsible combine to make her one of the most powerful heroines this reviewer has encountered in serial romance. MARRIED IN HASTE comes very highly recommended.	2003-08-20
1005139:US	49693975	R2UOGGXPKN0B3Q	0821775111	607744773	Then He Kissed Her (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Add this one to the keeper shelf--Very highly recommended	THEN HE KISSED HER brings together three of the strongest historical romance authors of our times, showcasing their unique voices. Authors Kate Donovan, Lori Handeland and Julie Moffett combine secret passage ways, hidden treasure and outrageous antics in a collection historical romance about governesses that fans will adore. Add this one to the keeper shelf!<br />Love Passages by Kate Donovan: After his adult sister's antics, Ryan has no patience for his three young charges or the new governess, Miranda Kent, who is much too young for the position. Rather than sending her packing, however, he agrees to give her a trial period to prove her abilities. It does not take long for Miranda to learn of the secret passages and lovers trysts, or for her own heart to long for what she does not have. Marvelous characterizations bring this novella vividly to life.<br />When Morning Comes by Lori Handeland: A friendship torn apart by the civil war has unexpected outcome when Yankee soldier Seth Torrance &quot;inherits&quot; his best friend's five children and property in Virginia. Out of desperation, he appeals to neighbor Ella Fontaine for help. However, Ella resents his taking over the children she has been caring for and his Yankee heritage. The children of this story add unexpected delight to a powerfully told tale. <br />Her Kilt-Clad Rogue by Julie Moffett: After ten years, Genevieve Fitzsimmons recalls her coming out in London and her interlude with Connor Douglas. He broke her heart once and she does not intend to give him the opportunity to do so again, even if she has come to the Scottish Highlands to become the governess of Ewan, Connor's son. Shocked by rumors that Connor murdered his wife and by his son's outrageous behavior, Genevieve becomes all the more determined to succeed. Little does she suspect the depth of Connor's feelings or how their lives will be transformed. Cultural clashes and old wounds provide impetus for new beginnings.	2003-08-20
1006732:US	49693975	R256W7ERGLIOZS	0312311087	233104970	Burning Up: Tales of Erotic Romance	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Intense! Highly recommended	Authors Nina Bangs, Cheryl Holt, Kimberly Raye, AND Patricia Ryan combine their talented pens for a sizzling collection of novellas. These powerful tales of seduction and pleasure will keep the blood simmering with their intimate detail and erotic possibility. As sexual intensity increases, so also do the demands of the heart. In this volume spanning time and distance, these authors will leave the reader BURNING UP.<br />&quot;The Flame&quot; by Nina Bangs: Serenity So-Fine time travels from the year 2700 to 2003 seeking an erotic work of art called the Flame. As curator for the Galactic Museum of Erotic Art, Serenity has added many erotic works to the collection, but none has called to her so much as this one. In a time when sexual attraction has been reduced to negotiation and necessity, the Flame speaks to her a way almost primal. When she arrives, Serenity learns that sculptor Justin Hill exudes the very primal heat her world has lost. Unfortunately, she arrives a bit early and the Flame has not yet been created; indeed, Serenity will become the focus of inspiration for the sculpture. <br />&quot;The Wedding Night&quot; by Cheryl Holt: In 1815, Ellen Foster agrees to a platonic marriage with Lord Stephen Banbury, exchanging her wealth for his title. Little does he suspect that she very carefully chooses him to be her husband, or that her virginal exterior conceals a passion driven woman determined to lure her new husband into their wedding bed. Certainly Stephen's reputation for lewd behavior and a fabulous ass promise a bad-girl want-to-be a wild night if he will only abandon his determination to keep his distance. <br />&quot;Burn, Inc&quot; by Kimberly Raye: Determined to prove her abilities to her family, Gerry Baxter is producer for an erotic movie company called Women on Top. Production is complete on the first nine films of a ten part series for HBO, but their contract hinges on completing the entire series. Unfortunately, the woman who usually serves asthe driving creative force for the company has defected to marriage and a honeymoon, leaving Gerry to complete the project. Ragweed and poor inspiration threaten disaster so Gerry calls Logan, believing he is Dr. Love and can inspire a few ideas for the final shoot. Mistaken identity and sensual promise lead to an unexpected encounter filled with eroticism. <br />&quot;Possessing Julia&quot; by Patricia Ryan: Widow Julia Hughes needs to loose her virginity within the next two weeks, or her secret will be discovered. Everyone assumes that her son was fathered by her first husband. Now she plans to marry a man just to provide him with an heir. Concerned for her son's well-being, Julia finds a unique solution. Her aunt makes a deal with Clay to show Julia the ways of love making, including how to enjoy and how to please a man. But after such a marvelous intense interlude, both Julia and Clay will face great difficulty to return to their previous lives and plans.	2003-08-19
1006814:US	49693975	RPV5X2GJXPY83	0373441673	614890612	Once Smitten & Twice Shy (Duets No. 101)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The irrepressible Gardner at her best!	Author Darlene Gardner pens a two part treat about the one who got away, or OWGA, in ONCE SMITTEN/TWICE SHY. Gardner's characteristic flair for amusing characters and outrageous situations absolutely sparkles. Indeed, ONCE SMITTEN/TWICE SHY demonstrates Gardner's witty writing skill at its playful best.<br />In ONCE SMITTEN, Zoe O'Neall has carried the torch for years for Jack Carter, a fellow student in college. His jock status took him far out of her league, but she has never forgotten the one who got away. So when a casual remark about that very topic brings friends Zoe, Amy and Matt together in the OWGA club, Zoe soon finds herself looking up her old crush. The results are equally outrageous and exciting! <br />In TWICE SHY, Amy Donnatelli and Matt Burke each make up one who got away, hoping to top the other's story. After all, neither wants to admit to their secret admiration for each other. Unfortunately, their stories soon snowball into ridiculous hilarity that only the reader can appreciate!	2003-08-19
1007089:US	49693975	RB5BHMXUQMHK2	0373765215	205926397	In Bed With the Enemy  (Lone Star Country Club)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A must read treasure! Very highly recommended	Special FBI agent Elise Campbell wields her accounting abilities the way ATF agent Cole Yardley plies his field experience. They did not get along two years ago when they first met, and they get along no better now with them both in Mission Creek, Texas. She calls him caveman; he calls her sweetheart. They are assigned to bring down the Mercado crime family and expose their connection to the smuggling ring funneling weapons into the tiny Central American country of Mezcaya.<br />As old antipathy combines with sizzling attraction, Elise and Cole combine forces. Cole poses as Elise's significant other to stop mobster boss Valente from getting too close to Elise. Soon they break their own rules about sleeping with a co-worker in a night of passion. The consequences, however, reach far beyond where either imagined. <br />As always, author Kathie DeNosky pens a great read with IN BED WITH THE ENEMY. Determined and independent, Elise makes the perfect foil for overly protective Cole. DeNosky carefully weaves the ongoing mystery with dynamic characterizations in a novel which works as well as part of the continuity as it does as a stand alone. Indeed, DeNosky's trademark gift for combining sensuality and humor results in a must read treasure. IN BED WITH THE ENEMY comes very highly recommended.	2003-08-19
1012301:US	49693975	R1HFBYX787LYLW	1591290562	597400744	A Young Girls's Crimes	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Minimalist style starkly reveals a gritty life	Teenagers Flora and Bill Darby grow tired of their father's restrictions, seeking rebellion in very different ways. While Bill eventually gets himself disowned by choosing to marry a woman his father does not approve of, Flora takes a very different path. Tired of her tutor's cruel behavior, Flora smothers her. No one ever suspects her crime, but that instance of evil begins Flora's descent into destruction. <br />Flora discovers her father's pornography collection, her feelings toward love and sex then guided by her father's depraved collection. When her new tutor arrives, Flora explores the world of lesbian love, only to be ultimately rejected. Even when Flora encounters true compassion, her past makes a future impossible.<br />Author David Rehak's minimalist style starkly reveals a gritty life in A YOUNG GIRL'S CRIMES. With her father's controlling nature driving her into rebellion, Flora's descent into violent and sexual behavior comes alive with Rehak's vivid pen. Flora's desperate search for love from her father, her lover, or even her brother results in a tale of poignant tragedy. Readers will encounter unexpected moral twists and ethical dilemmas written in a poignant and compelling style that it is impossible to put down. Indeed, Rehak's remarkable talent will leave readers eagerly anticipating his future releases. A YOUNG GIRL'S CRIMES comes highly recommended.	2003-08-13
1013163:US	49693975	R2FEM6BM9UCHUP	0553802526	941388331	The Killing Hour	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Gripping! Very highly recommended	Driven by the need for redemption for her mother and sister's death, Agent Kimberly Quincy only pushes herself to be the best. Her mother and sister victims of horrific and violent crimes, she and her FBI profiler father have never recovered from their losses. Punished training routines at the FBI academy do not stop her quest. But when she discovers a body on FBI's training grounds, Kimberly suddenly finds herself embroiled in an investigation that transforms her life, especially when Georgia Bureau of Investigation Special Agent Mac MacCormick steps in.<br />Involved since the first killing, Mac recognizes the serial killer's patterns. Young women are kidnapped in couples, the first body left in an easy to discover area and serving as a map to the second. Specifically, the killer taunts investigators with obscure clues that could possibly save the second woman's life if they move quickly enough. Of the previous eight victims, only was discovered alive because Mac pieced the clues together quickly enough. Now out of his jurisdiction, Mac dogged tracks the perpetrator with Kimberly's help.<br />Author Lisa Garner pens a taut suspense thriller that leaves the heart pounding in THE KILLING HOUR. Garner's gripping narrative grabs the reader by the throat with the first page and never turns loose, providing a horrific roller coaster ride that will keep readers up way past bedtime. Kimberly's drive for success easily matches Mac's determination to the stop the killer. Their shared chemistry and their shared motivations combine to bring them together under extreme circumstance to reveal gritty, richly realized characterizations. Garner likewise presents a chilling portrait of eco-killer that readers will not soon forget. THE KILLING HOUR is a must read for readers who enjoy a riveting plot, strong forensic detail and a touch of romance. Very highly recommended.	2003-08-13
1013898:US	49693975	R2MLYBLW9CTR31	0821775189	422419287	Fine Spirits	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Dazzling characterizations - Very highly recommended	Desdemona Daisy Gumm Majesty earns her living, much to her husband's chagrin, as a spiritual medium to Pasadena's wealthy. When her regular client Mrs. Bissel requests an exorcism, Daisy attempts to sidestep the appeal. Husband Billy's deteriorating health and continued resentment at his debilitating war injuries leave Daisy torn between the need to support her family and her need for her husband's support. To please Billy, Daisy extracts the promise of a puppy in payment of her services.<br />Meanwhile, eighteen year old Marianne Wagner has disappeared. Empty cans of food quickly lead Daisy to the conclusion that Mrs. Bissel's ghost might be the missing girl instead. Rather than simply reporting her conclusions, however, Daisy finds herself drawn to help the missing girl. But to protect her, Daisy will have to sidestep the police, her family and some very inquisitive household residents.<br />Author Alice Duncan's STRONG SPIRITS defied categorization, as does its sequel FINE SPIRITS. Duncan's narrative talents flourish within this marvelous tale, displaying humor and droll observations in equal measure. While FINE SPIRITS loosely centers on a missing heiress, the strength of the novel lies in its poignant rendering of the relationship between Daisy and her husband Billy. As his health continues to deteriorate and as the antipathy between Daisy and Sam increases, readers will eagerly await the next step of these difficult and challenging relationships. Daisy's candid comments sharply contrast her occassional obtuseness, revealing a woman of amazing depth and devotion. Duncan has certainly found her stride within this marvelous series! Indeed, readers seeking a novel completely out of the ordinary will cherish this series and eagerly anticipate its next installment. FINE SPIRITS comes very highly recommended.	2003-08-12
1021939:US	49693975	R2NAEQEAN65UTS	0821773410	312695268	Perfect Together	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An amusing summer read -- Highly recommended	When his news station attempts to boost ratings by promoting him as super stud, sportscaster Jake Jarvis does not appreciate having his picture plastered across buses and billboards. Worse, now the news station insists that this single father Jake agree to participate as contestant on the Dream Date TV show. Jake believes that he and four-year-old Noah do not need a woman intruding in their games and clothing choices, and agrees only to assure food the table.<br />Actress Marley Madison made herself famous for over two decades as a sultry, sassy southern belle. Now twenty-seven, Marley wants meatier roles than stilettos and a southern twang. Her agent suggests that she prove her acting ability by becoming a contestant on Dream Date. By transforming her Hollywood image into the girl next door, Marley hopes prove her talent on national television. When she meets Jake over coffee, however, their chemistry inspires the show's producer to pair them as a team with nothing in common and little chance of winning. But publicity becomes secondary when love adds its own unexpected chemistry.<br />Author Lisa Plumley pens a delightful contemporary comedy in PERFECT TOGETHER. Plumley's prose sparkles with levity and wit as she adds a fresh twist to the classic prince and pauper switch. Marley's adoption of her sister's clothing, apartment and lifestyle provides amusing conundrums as she attempts to conceal her life as a starlet. Young Noah provides plenty of his own wonderful moments as Jake indulges outrageous clothing choices and lots of love. Readers will find themselves eagerly anticipating the sequel that promises Marley's sister's story as she samples glamour and privilege. The perfect amusing read for summer reading, PERFECT TOGETHER comes very highly recommended.	2003-08-05
1021989:US	49693975	RTK97CF0ZG6XQ	1551667061	402160006	Where The Road Ends (MIRA)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A mother's worst nightmare -- Very highly recommended	A year after her husband dies, Amy Wainscoat reevaluates her priorities. Once she put work first, providing for her family and stepping into her deceased father's place. With Johnny gone, however, Amy comes to realize how precious her five-year-old son Charles is. Concerned how possessive her nanny Kathy Stead has become of Charles, Amy decides to step away from work responsibilities and devote herself to raising her son. Then the unthinkable occurs, and Charles disappears when she takes him to an amusement park.<br />After two lie detector tests, Kathy is exonerated of any wrong doing and disappears. Months of emotional torment send Amy searching for Kathy and searching for answers. Her quest brings her to Michigan showing pictures of her ex-nanny and son to anyone who might have seen them. But the road forces self-honesty. Where once the wealthy CEO wore designer clothes she now wears department store specials. Rather than five star hotels she stays in rat traps with rust drains. Soon her only tie to her former life is a voice on her cell phone -- at the other end is detective Brad Dorchester.<br />Amy discovers herself when she sees the truth of the world without the filters of privilege. She works off the guilt and self-loathing of her former life with every bathroom stall she cleans and with every customer she helps. Such amazing character development is the hallmark of author Tara Taylor Quinn's work. With mesmerizing prose, Quinn takes the reader through the darkest of shadows, weaving danger and intrigue into every step, until at last emerging into a dazzling world of new possibility and metamorphosis. Indeed, Taylor's profound observations of human nature and intimate understanding of values and priorities lends extraordinary psychological depth to all her work. WHERE THE ROAD ENDS comes very highly recommended.	2003-08-05
1022332:US	49693975	R19YYRA970SNKY	0671653377	652489347	Chance & Other Gestures of The Hand of Fate	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	The first two stories in this collection explore the world of the fae and humans who walk their woods. For ten years the bastard born man called chance walked the forests of Whirral without acknowledging the little people inhabiting the trees about him. Enduring indignities and slights because of his class, Chance fears that which he cannot control be it his best friend or the forests around him. When he acknowledges the fae, however, accepting their gifts and asking their help, he makes bargains beyond imagining.<br />Other stories include the supernatural and the mundane, and in each author Nancy Springer demonstrates a profound understanding the primal needs that drive human destiny. With a memorably graceful style, Springer pens the story of Whirral as well as seven other stories never previously released in book form. This collection deceptively simple, entertaining tales of the fae and mortals conceals a harsh warning for those foolish enough to challenge the essence of our dreams and nightmares. With a richly complex authorial voice that will send readers scurrying to the bookstore for more, CHANCE &amp; GESTURES OF FATE earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.<br />Grace Weaver	2003-08-05
1022935:US	49693975	RJIHU8Q4KARA4	0373272960	196615516	Private Maneuvers : Wingman Warriors (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1226)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Underwater adventure -- Very highly recommended	Air Force co-pilot First Lieutenant Darcy &quot;Wren&quot; Renshaw is disgruntled at being reassigned to fly dolphins and Dr. Max Keagan to the South Pacific rather than flying a war mission; that is, until she gets a look at the good doctor. Tropical flower swim shorts and a five o'clock shadow do not detract from one hot professor. Perhaps this jig in Guam would not be so bad afterall if not for haunting memories of her last stay in the island paradise. Then she had been a child held by kidnappers. <br />Max's deep undercover CIA assignment is about to meet its conclusion. Two years ago his partner and lover Eva, pregnant with their child, died on a mission. The double agent has led Max to warm tropical waters and unexpected temptation. However, someone watches, and plans to use Max's new love interest to cause harm. Suddenly Darcy and Max's private maneuvers put her at risk, and tropical spiders and snakes are only beginning.<br />Underwater adventure brings intrigue and love in Catherine Mann's PRIVATE MANEUVERS, the fourth of the &quot;Wingman Warriors&quot; series. Author Mann has made a reputation for delivering sexy, heart pounding action and PRIVATE MANEUVERS is no exception. A spirited heroine, Darcy does not let her fear stop her under the most frightening of circumstances. Determined to gain notice on her own merit, Darcy resents her General father's kindhearted manipulations. Also a military brat, hero Max is her perfect complement, she believes, until she realizes he is more than a simple professor. Rich with witty dialogue and subtle nuances, PRIVATE MANUEVERS delivers a masterful, intriguing romance readers will find impossible to put down. PRIVATE MANUEVERS comes very highly recommended.	2003-08-05
1023193:US	49693975	R4DARV6V19HDL	0373169744	809800613	Fortune's Twins: Millionaire, Montana (Harlequin American Romance, No 974)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Delightful blend of good fortune and small town charm	The small town of Jester, Montana's dwindling population receives a miracle when the local lottery pool wins millions. An impromptu celebration at a bar forty miles away leads to unexpected results with a chance meeting, chemistry and a lost phone number. Gwen Tanner only has only the name Garrett and a memory of her twins' father.<br />Eli Garrett became almost obsessed with tracking down the beautiful woman from the bar. Every time his car restoration business led to the area, he searched for the woman whose phone number had disappeared into illegible smear. Then a picture on the front page of a newspaper jumps out at him. But it will take more than a bit of charisma to convince Gwen that he intends to stick around for the long haul.<br />Serendipity might have brought Eli and Gwen together, but it will take more than good intentions to find the road to happiness in FORTUNE'S TWINS. A delightful blend of good fortune and small town charm, the small town of Jester, Montana will capture reader's hearts. A fascinating cast of characters, including the quirky, the good hearted and the devious blazes a marvelous path to subsequent additions to the Millionaire, Montana miniseries. With her usual flair, Kara Lennox pens a charming tale that comes highly recommended.	2003-08-05
1026120:US	49693975	R2QXBHNYCTTQPF	0425191028	237279528	The Shadow Side (Berkley Sensation)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Chilling intensity -- Very highly recommended	With childhood tragedy as a motivator, Dr. Elizabeth &quot;Eli&quot; Barnes devotes her life to medical research. Indeed, her one and only love is work. Consequently, Eli eagerly anticipates receiving the Distinguished Woman of Science Award for the development of Valazine, a drug that treats depression. But before the ceremony, Detective Adam Boedecker approaches her, convinced that Valazine has contributed to a sudden rash of murder/suicides. While she initially rejects the possibility, Eli's conscience quickly leads her own research and shocking conclusions.<br />Adam's career as a street cop nearly ended three years ago when a kid put a Saturday night special to his head and pulled the trigger. Brain damage left him struggling to relearn ordinary skills while his wife slept with his best friend. Admittedly a better cop than a brother, Adam concludes his brother's usage of Valazine led to murder/suicide, leading him to unofficially pursue investigation regardless of the cost. Moreover, intrigued by Eli's strengths and vulnerabilities, Adam does not anticipate the damage the investigation could do to his heart.<br />All the more shocking for its potential to appear in contemporary headlines, THE SHADOW SIDE presents an evocative, chilling tale of suspense. Once again author Linda Castillo displays remarkable talent for creating a tale both plausible yet extraordinary. Both Eli and Adam are damaged, finding recovery as they move through a maze of antagonism and suspicion to learning to trust their hearts and each other. As Eli's priorities shift and as Adam overcomes his disability, their characters develop with strength and power, even as they masterfully reflect the edgy, underlying tension of the novel. A novel fraught with chilling intensity and betrayal, THE SHADOW SIDE comes very highly recommended.	2003-08-02
1046701:US	49693975	R22IOZ7AJE35FC	0425190722	884558463	Heart Thief (Celta's HeartMates, Book 2)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	In a world where flair determines power and position, Ruis Elder has none, being a Null. As a teen, his abusive uncle stripped him of his birthright, and gleefully abused his young charge until Ruis ran away. A talented thief who could use lack of flair to his advantage, Ruis stole T'Ash's heartgift to his HeartMate. He used the precious stones, as he uses all his stolen precious stones, to further his research into ancient Earth machines because they work when Celta Flair does not. Ruis returned the necklace, but was subsequently captured to be tried before the Grand Counsil. Now his trial allows him to meet Grandlady Ailim d'Siverfir.<br />Only recently named head of her family, Ailim finds her task daunting as she struggles to save the family from bankruptcy. Her plea happens to be timed to bring her before the Counsil at the same time Ruis is to be tried. Accustomed to the demands of the strength of her flair, Ailim finds that Ruis' presence brings a surprising measure of peace and calm. Unfortunately, as a telepathic judge Ailim cannot overlook his supposed crimes. However, a woman who believes in justice and the spirit of the law, she cannot ignore his plight when Ruis is banished fro Druida on pain of death. Yet their continued contact threatens to destroy them both.<br />Author Robin Owens soundly established herself among the top futurist authors in HEARTMATE. With such a hard act to follow, readers will be delighted to learn HEART THIEF equals HEARTMATE with a FamKitty who flies on a mini saucer, a sentient spaceship, and a return of favored characters from the first novel. Add a heated romance filled with promise and impossibility and the result is a read absolutely impossible to put down. Indeed, Owen's gift for writing fiery, feisty tales of betrayal love earns her the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2003-07-16
1048854:US	49693975	R2OMTVN5FNDERT	0758203594	207643662	Wilde Thing	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wild fun! Very highly recommended	Liz Adams is no wild child, with her only journey onto the wild side having ended in emotional and financial disaster. Now she is taking a part-time job to find her missing cousin. By day she is the owner of The Daily Grind, a specialty coffee shop. By night she works as a phone sex operator, hoping to find her missing cousin. She hires private investigator Steve Wilde to aid her quest.<br />Liz's night job at the Ultimate Fantasy provides her with access to a world of erotic possibility and forbidden passions. Her nightly phone calls with Steve secure an invitation to exclusive parties hosted by the company. Liz hops her new contacts will provide leads to her missing cousin. Meanwhile, her real world encounters with Steve erupt in heated passion. But their relationship is merely a diversion as Liz does not expect this ultimate bad boy to linger beyond completing the case. Nevertheless, this Wild boy may have just met his match.<br />Butterscotch equates with wild imaginings for readers decadent enough to indulge in Janelle Denison's WILD THING. The sizzling plot provides the ultimate background for some of the hottest romantic on the market. Readers will recall having met Eric in the anthology I BRAKE FOR BAD BOYS, and will look forward to brother Adrian's story in the upcoming November release BAD BOYS TO GO. Drenched in sensual heat and bold dealing, WILD THING indulges the forbidden and the erotic in a memorable read impossible to put down, coming very highly recommended.	2003-07-15
1049568:US	49693975	R1J2RVB0489739	0373711344	994881964	Jackson's Girls: Raising Cane, Book 3 (Harlequin Superromance, No 1134)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Compelling trilogy completed -- Highly recommended	An explosion at the Fontaine sugar refinery brings together Jackson Fontaine and insurance investigator Leanna Cargill. The arson follows hard on the heels of two other business disasters, leaving the Fontaine fortune in jeopardy. Now an anonymous tip has brought Leanna to Jackson's doorstep only for her to witness the latest disaster. Soon Jackson strikes Leanna a deal. In return for helping in his investigations, Jackson will share his professional secrets with her. But it does not take long for his secrets to turn far more personal.<br />Leanna and Jackson have daughters of approximately the same age. A nasty divorce has left Leanna solely responsible for her child. Jackson offers Leanna a place to live when her apartment is damaged to the point of becoming unlivable. However, anxious to preserve her independence, she does not make the move without reservations. Nevertheless, charmed by mint juleps and Southern manners, Leanna discovers old world grace and her own vulnerability with this Old South family. <br />KN Casper characteristically tackles some of the most difficult of relationships. From alcoholism to ethical moral challenges, Casper's understanding of the human condition, complete with joy, sorrow, flaw and foible, makes his fiction some of the most insightful of series romance on the market. As his remarkable characters work their ways into reader's heart, they challenge reader's ideals of heroes and heroines, broadening our perceptions and strengthen our hope that love can indeed overcome any challenge. However, with JACKSON'S GIRLS, some readers may react negatively to Jackson's high handed machinations. Nevertheless, within the context of this powerfully rendered tale, Jackson becomes a understandable, if flawed hero. Certainly his overbearing nature meets its match in the independent Leanna, a woman of considerable independence and strength. The result of their mutual needs is a novel of complex motivation and believable relationships that have become the hallmark of Casper's work. JACKSON'S GIRLS comes highly recommended.	2003-07-14
1051812:US	49693975	R1LAJ7GDWNJLFF	0373711425	408825099	The Good Daughter: Deep in the Heart (Harlequin Superromance No. 1142)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	From crystal and antiques to blood and death, Austin police psychologist Chloe St. Claire moves easily between the world of privilege and the harsh reality of criminals. When she leaves a cocktail party on a call to a crime scene, Chloe meets detective Vince Coronado, who has fatally shot a suspect. Now Chloe must clear Vince for duty before he can resume his normal duties. <br />Unfortunately, the internal affairs investigator bears a personal grudge against Vince, and it will take all of Chloe's political, professional and personal savvy for them both to survive the ensuing situation. Meanwhile, Chloe uncovers family secrets that leave her feeling like she belongs nowhere, and only Vince seems to understand her challenges. <br />Opposites attract as THE GOOD DAUGHTER brings together a legendary cop accused of murder and the society girl who can bring him down. Author Jean Brashear's powerful storytelling ability dazzles as sizzling chemistry that lends hope to the impossible in a tale that will touch reader's hearts. Indeed, Brashear's understanding of the heart and the complexities of family relationships lend THE GOOD DUAGHTER emotional depth and gripping angst. Readers will find THE GOOD DAUGHTER to be an outstanding read that belongs on the keeper shelf. THE GOOD DAUGHTER earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2003-07-12
1052572:US	49693975	R34L0W7B2I796Y	037379097X	690662667	Friendly Persuasion (Blaze, Book 93)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Amusing romp - Recommended	Kara Collier equates love with sex, picking out wedding china before the guy willing accepts a permanent dresser drawer. Although she is skeptical of modern attitudes about sex, Kara finally decides to find the perfect man for a love-free fling. Perhaps enjoying sex for sex's sake will free her from her nesting instinct well enough to not jump so fast when the next sexy guy comes along. And who better to aid her than Ross Gabriel, her best friend. After all, Ross is more into comic books and commitment, assuring that Kara will not get too involved.<br />Ross has no desire to climb the corporate ladder of success with its necessary encumbrances of mortgage and wife. That is, until Kara captures his attention. Perhaps he will never want to be upper level management, but Kara inspires dreams of permanence that he has never before entertained. Too bad Ross blows his opportunity while he wrestles with the conundrums of freedom verse responsibility. Meanwhile, other guys are noticing Kara's transformation and Ross had best decide what he wants before it gets away forever.<br />Author Dawn Atkins brings her gift for amusement to the Blaze line, proving love and sex are not so easily separated in FRIENDLY PERSUASION. While her lightly glib tone may frustrate readers seeking the Blaze line's traditionally sexually heated pages, Atkins does combine sexual exploration with fantasy to achieve heated possibilities. Further, Atkins fans will be pleased to see her expanding into the Blaze line and hope for more of Atkins' fun, sexy romps. FRIENDLY PERSUASION comes recommended.	2003-07-11
1053749:US	49693975	RQ6JFP7Q63I99	0800757777	180769818	Riptide (Julesburg Mystery Series #2)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Powerful romantic suspense	Sisters Sarah McIntosh and Julie Armstrong only recently found one another before being tragically separated again by a catastrophic act of fate. They share a dream of renovating an abandoned theater called The Nevermore, hoping to create a mini-mall where they can display their artistic creations. They invite contractor Nick Nordahl to make a bid for the renovations. Their new found friendship leads to unexpected consequences, however, when a moment in time brings tragedy. <br />Julie falls asleep in the backseat of the car and Sarah gently covers her, leaving the car running while she runs into a convenience store for milk. Meanwhile, a masked man robs the store, killing the owner, before using Sarah's running car for his get away. He does not see the sleeping woman in the backseat, which profoundly escalates his situation. Subsequently, Sarah struggles with profound issues of grief, guilt and terror. While she believes in God, Sarah lacks the assurance of faith that sustains Nick, creating a terrible wall between them. <br />Once again author Lorena McCourtney pens a powerful romantic suspense. Profound questions of a spiritual nature lend the novel an emotional and psychological intensity, landing both Sarah and Nick in a riptide of feeling. Unfortunately, the nature of the Christian genre precludes the edgy suspense readers expect when the characters are analyzed from a perspective of good verses evil on a scale of spirituality. Nevertheless, the Nick's determination to save Sarah's life, even if he cannot save her soul, makes him a marvelous hero readers will treasure. With a skillful blend of romantic suspense and realistic spiritual challenges, RIPTIDE comes recommended.	2003-07-10
1097635:US	49693975	R6K57F6ARQ96K	0373691262	10509716	One Hot Chance	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Dramatic characterizations -- Highly recommended	Appearances are everything when DC lobbyist Tiffany Albright seeks a weekend opportunity for fun in Savannah. Sick of weak handshakes and political maneuverings, Tiffany seeks a wild weekend. Unfortunately, St. Patrick's Day parades and green beer lead Tiffany to believe that she has lost out on her chance for excitement until she spies a street musician with an alluring saying on his t-shirt. Suddenly Tiffany acts completely out of character and captures the attention of Chance MCMann.<br />When he stands too close to a curb, Chance never expected a splash of horse maneuver to lead to the bold, beautiful woman of his fantasies. A fitting end to a day filled with lost luggage and lost reservations. All he had to do was trade his suit for a t-shirt and cut loose on a sax for his life to change radically. Too bad Chance actually embodies the very traits that Tiffany professes to abhor. But with fabulous chemistry, what's a girl to do when the guy of her dreams turns out to be a stuffed shirt?<br />Author Darlene Gardner once again brings her flair for dramatic characterization and humor to ONE HOT CHANCE. Chance provides enough heat to keep the novel sizzling even if Tiffany's characterization seems a bit uneven. A lively, sexy read filled with the unexpected, ONE HOT CHANCE comes highly recommended.	2003-06-06
1097671:US	49693975	R3NSYJIH1JTT90	0373169760	161350424	Inherited: One Baby! (Harlequin American Romance, No 976)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A bonnie romance! -- Highly recommended	When two dear friends are killed in a car accident, millionaire Jake Peterson's greatest dream comes true: he becomes a father. But to retain custody of six and a half month old Bonnie, he needs a wife. Not just any wife, but a woman with whom he shares a history convincing enough to persuade the judge of the genuineness of his marriage. Jake has once thought his ex-wife Candy was going to make his dreams of love and family come true. Now he must persuade her to face her greatest fears if he wants his dream of a child to come true.<br />With a desperately dysfunctional background, Candy fears repeating her mother's mistakes. She already proved her inability to make a good wife when her marriage to Jake ended, but at least she had not repeated her mother's mistakes with children. So when Jake shows up unexpected at a turning point in her life, Candy feels torn between seeking answers in exotic travel and adventure, or yielding to her heart's desire, however temporarily. <br />Candy's sweetness and sass combined with the devastatingly charismatic Jake, makes INHERITED: ONE BABY! a wonderfully entertaining read. Candy's determination to avoid repeating her mother's mistakes has deprived her of what her heart desires most, and yet she does not even know it. Jake knows he lost the woman he once loved, and it does not take much for him to realize his dreams will truly only come true with more than just gaining custody of an adorable child. A tender romance readers will treasure, INHERITED: ONE BABY! comes highly recommended.	2003-06-06
1097807:US	49693975	R38EHF5OR5KAQF	0373711336	215368681	Home to Copper Mountain (Harlequin Superromance No. 1133)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Terrific sequel to ANOTHER MAN'S WIFE	Between contracts, racecar driver Rick (Lucky) Hawkins seeks to fill an emptiness in his life. Giving away his motorcycle and buying a new BMW, Rick detours on his trip to select a contract to sign, stopping to visit his father and his new stepmother in Texas. Crossing the Texas boarder, Rick searches for a radio station, settling for a late night show playing an eclectic mix of classical, country, soft rock. The female disc jockey, Red Jarrett, includes her own original compositions in the show as well.<br />After an unorthodox beginning, Rick strikes up the acquaintance of his stepmother Pam's cousin Audra. She attempts to squelch their instant attraction, however, because a man like Rick burned her once, and she does not care to repeat the experience. With a broken leg and obnoxious, interfering cousins, however, Audra soon welcomes Rick into her home while he recovers from a horse riding injury. It takes a while, however, for Rick to realize she owns the sexy voice he heard in the late night hours. The question remains if their extreme differences will keep them apart or draw them even closer together.<br />A riveting read, HOME TO COPPER MOUNTAIN provides a marvelous sequel to ANOTHER MAN'S WIFE. Family discord brings together two powerful characters with Audra and Rick. With poignant flair, author Rebecca Winters pens an endearing contemporary romance with richly developed characters and profound motivation. While an excellent sequel, HOME TO COPPER MOUNTAIN works equally as well as a stand-alone. With love that spans generations, HOME TO COPPER MOUNTAIN comes highly recommended.	2003-06-06
1098397:US	49693975	R1VIT2JZZCWDV8	0373169760	161350424	Inherited: One Baby! (Harlequin American Romance, No 976)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A bonnie romance! -- Highly recommended	When two dear friends are killed in a car accident, millionaire Jake Peterson's greatest dream comes true: he becomes a father. But to retain custody of six and a half month old Bonnie, he needs a wife. Not just any wife, but a woman with whom he shares a history convincing enough to persuade the judge of the genuineness of his marriage. Jake has once thought his ex-wife Candy was going to make his dreams of love and family come true. Now he must persuade her to face her greatest fears if he wants his dream of a child to come true.<br />With a desperately dysfunctional background, Candy fears repeating her mother's mistakes. She already proved her inability to make a good wife when her marriage to Jake ended, but at least she had not repeated her mother's mistakes with children. So when Jake shows up unexpected at a turning point in her life, Candy feels torn between seeking answers in exotic travel and adventure, or yielding to her heart's desire, however temporarily. <br />Candy's sweetness and sass combined with the devastatingly charismatic Jake, makes INHERITED: ONE BABY! a wonderfully entertaining read. Candy's determination to avoid repeating her mother's mistakes has deprived her of what her heart desires most, and yet she does not even know it. Jake knows he lost the woman he once loved, and it does not take much for him to realize his dreams will truly only come true with more than just gaining custody of an adorable child. A tender romance readers will treasure, INHERITED: ONE BABY! comes highly recommended.	2003-06-06
1098552:US	49693975	R1RV6A9MM5DOUR	0373169752	673707240	Have Bouquet, Need Boyfriend (Harlequin American Romance, No 975)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A delightful read! Very highly recommended	Mousy Rebecca Hartwell learned to disappear into the woodwork years ago when her mother died. Her dazzling younger sister Suzanne always seems to thrive on their father's attention and to capture the hearts of Rebecca's would-be boyfriends. It would be easy to resent her sister if Suzanne had not responsibly handled every would-be suitor who dumped her older sister with a rejection. <br />Even the town's hottest doctor has dated Suzanna, so Rebecca has little hope of garnering his attention. That is, except when her clumsy ineptness embarrasses her. Even catching the Heartwell bridal bouquet does not promise that Rebecca will get her heart's desire-a husband and a baby. So she takes matters into her own hands, inventing the Baby Plan. She intends to persuade Thomas to father a child for her!<br />Author Rita Herron has a marvelous talent for bringing the small town of Sugar Hill, Georgia alive with quirky characters and genuine hometown familiarity. For the curious, Sugar Hill does really exist, and many readers may be packing their bags to relocate before this wonderfully entertaining series is compete! An entrancing romance of transition and transformation, HAVE BOUQUET, NEED BOYFRIEND comes very highly recommended.	2003-06-06
1098603:US	49693975	R3S2J8PRMEMNYO	1591299829	232623625	The Works of the Flesh: A Novel and Lesson about Love	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Interesting character study	Wyn Cash prides himself on being something more than a nine-to-five yes man. Driven to succeed, blinded by ambition and the accumulation of material wealth, Wyn falls victim to the weaknesses of the flesh, neglecting his marriage and his spirit. Wyn engages in under the table business deals, tinkers at law and becomes, as a friend describes him, \\"slave to the works of the flesh. Keep it up, and the works of the flesh will devour everything you touch.\\" <br />Intricate legal maneuverings, murder, and infidelity each provide a graphic explanation of works of the flesh. Unfortunately, some readers may have difficulty finding interest in a self-serving attorney who left his first wife and child for a barely legal woman ten years younger whom he seems to view as only an extension of himself. Wyn does lay the way, however, for character growth that promises in later novels to be nothing short of a transformation. <br />Rather than a typical suspense novel, R. Troyan Krause creates an intensive character study with the first of the Wyn Cash series WORKS OF THE FLESH. While Wyn will not garner a lot of sympathy from readers, his character growth takes some interesting twists and turns, promising some surprises in the novel sequel. Secondary characters vivaciously come to life, especially Christina. However, readers with strict morals will give her little sympathy either as she has a ten year relationship with a married man. Despite the lack of sophisticated plotting, however, WORKS OF THE FLESH does a marvelous job of exploring the small decisions that change destiny and of capturing the moral and ethical implications of such choices. With an intriguing read in a narrative tone reminiscent of John Updike, WORKS OF THE FLESH comes recommended.	2003-06-05
1099321:US	49693975	R2IOCIIEXX3JJ3	0373169736	85548608	Taking Over the Tycoon: The Deveraux Legacy (Harlequin American Romance, No 973)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Compelling -- Highly recommended	Anxious to make her inheritance a working success, widow Kristy Neumeyer determinedly prepares her lodge to reopen. After her husband's heart attack two years ago, Kristy put her home up for sale and moved with her twin eight-year-olds to Charleston, South Carolina, much against her family's protests. The only member of her family to not become a doctor, Kristy intends to use her business degree in hotel management. Now, however, not only does her family pressure her to sell out, but Connor Templeton also intends to become the buyer. <br />Millionaire Connor may not know how to scrub toilets, but he does know how to make seaside resorts a success. Unfortunately, he does not expect Kristy to be so reticent about selling, or both her and her girls to get to his heart. With mixed loyalties to his partner and his growing attachment to Kristy, Connor may be faced with more than proving he can learn to make hospital corners to get in Kristy's good graces.<br />Author Cathy Gillen Thacker excels at penning compelling romance that provides the perfect escape. TAKING OVER THE TYCOON has just enough emotional angst to keep the plot interesting, particularly with twin-eight-year-olds coping with letting go of there deceased daddy, and a marvelous secondary romance that will keep readers quite amused. Issues of class take unexpected twists, lending TAKING OVER THE TYCOON believability for those of us not living the high life. With a remarkable balance of joy and sorrow, humor and grief, TAKING OVER THE TYCOON comes highly recommended.	2003-06-05
1101999:US	49693975	REHBTDKBE0K2C	0821773259	399501889	Diamond In The Rough (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Matthew \\"Quinn\\" Quinlan delivers diamonds, not women, in the Australian bush country. His impeccable honesty and extreme responsibility has earned him just the necessary reputation for lawyer Sidney Faulk to entrust Quinn with Olivia St. John, a governess who has inherited property in Africa. Despite Quin's warnings, Olivia will not be dissuaded from her dream running her uncle's boardinghouse. <br />Olivia's years spent working as a governess might not have prepared Olivia for dealing with a harsh life in the bush, it did teach her value of independence. In an attempt to discourage Olivia from traveling into the bush, Quinn demands his own personal price: a kiss a day. He assumes a gently reared woman would flee such an arrangement; instead, the joke is on him as their mutual attraction rages out of control. But Quinn comes from a street rat background and cannot imagine himself as part of anyone's happily ever after. <br />Author Patricia Wadell pens a marvelous historical romance with A DIAMOND IN THE ROUGH. While Quinn is a typical alpha hero with his strength and control, he conceals a fascinating background and wonderful vulnerabilities. Olivia likewise exhibits remarkable strength and self-control in the face of incredible challenges. Rather than whining about the disrepair of her inheritance, for example, she rolls up her sleeves and gets to work. Her terrific fortitude earns the respect of those around her, particularly an intriguing secondary character by the name of Echo. Author Wadell's memorable characterizations and fantastic landscape result in her best novel yet! DIAMOND IN THE ROUGH earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2003-06-03
1104906:US	49693975	R1QIZYT1VEW932	1893896919	552935828	Heart of Fire	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A dazzling historical fantasy romance	When a slave girl saves his life, King Nicholas Rostov demands her ownership papers and her remarkable horse in recompense for the danger he survived. Sera captures his imagination with her determination and spirit, but she conceals secrets the likes of which Nicholas can scarcely imagine. Nicholas works to protect his country from both Napoleon's troops and the Brotherhood, a band of terrorists that stalk his borders. Rather than allow her risk danger alone, Nicholas brings Sera home with him, but she resists his efforts at civilization. <br />Nicholas' intuition leads him to believe Sera conceals special power that could aid him in protecting his country. While his conscious clamoures to release her, his growing desire demands that he keep her near. He certainly does not suspect that Sera is a princess on a mission for her people. The assassin Anatole Galerien stole the Heart of Fire, a fantastic ruby that protects her magical kingdom from the outside world. She must find the ruby before solstice, or it will be too late. Worse, her powers are growing exponentially and only her love for Nicholas gives her any control over them. <br />Author Mary Lennox pens an exhilarating historical fantasy romance that creates a world of magic in HEART OF FIRE. A gripping read rich with historical background, exotic locations and complex characterizations, HEART OF FIRE will capture the reader's imagination. While Lennox takes great liberty with geography and historical accuracy, readers willing to suspend their disbelief will be rewarded with a delightfully imaginative read that truly entertains. With a dazzling touch of magic, HEART OF FIRE comes very highly recommended.	2003-05-31
1109916:US	49693975	R2MHOD5P93LXBP	0373711298	821463178	A Little Town in Texas : Crystal Creek (Harlequin Superromance No. 1129)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Satisfying afternoon's read -- Very highly recommended	The redhead entrances Mel Belyle from first glimpse with her elfin face and fast pace. Her spitfire ways spark his interest, even after he learns that Kitt Mitchell used their fortuitous, accidentally meeting to pump him for information. Their immediate attraction, however, will be thwarted when they arrive in Crystal Creek and find themselves at cross-purposes. <br />Unfortunately, Mel is on a mission to buy land in Crystal Creek for development, and on a personal vendetta against his brother for defecting to the other side. As a reporter, Kitt is returning to Crystal Creek after a long absence to get the story for a New York magazine. Both are equally determined to learn more about the other, but each conceals painful secrets that it would take an act of God to reveal. They both best be careful, however, because a flood is coming. <br />As Crystal Creek continues to confront necessary change, A LITTLE TOWN IN TEXAS picks up with Mel's story. Fans will recall his brother's abdication to the citizen's of Crystal Creek's side in \\"I'll Take Texas\\", part of last summer's RETURN TO CRYSTAL CREEK anthology. Mel's entrance brings clashes of loyalty to both family and ethics, resulting in an emotional read as the town becomes divided against itself. Author Bethany Campbell's understanding of the necessities of progress and the weakness of human nature lends the novel a marvelous complexity, especially as the sassy Kitt takes on the overly confident Mel, who hides surprising and endearing vulnerabilities. A satisfying afternoon's read, A LITTLE TOWN IN TEXAS comes very highly recommended.	2003-05-27
1110269:US	49693975	R2CTACZGNIKF6Y	1580050417	110726887	DEL-Lesbian Couples: A Guide to Creating Healthy Relationships	Books	5	34	37	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Women have been socialized to form couples, and, within the lesbian experience strive, for the joy and exhilaration of loving other women. Yet achieving and sustaining intimacy remains a challenge, just as it does with other types of couples. LESBIAN COUPLES targets the natural flow of intimate relationships. From mind reading and making assumptions, to conflict and disillusionment, LESBIAN COUPLES examines the strengths and weaknesses of relationships, flagging potential problem areas and offering real life examples and solutions to the challenges lesbians experience. <br />Practical chapters include: understanding differences, managing conflict, sex, making decisions, family, children, cross-cultural and cross-race relationships, recovery and healing, disability and chronic illness, and later life. Whether you are beginning a relationship, maintaining a relationship, ending a relationship, or recovering from a relationship, this book offers something for everyone. As a matter of fact, heterosexual couples and gay couples will likewise find a considerable amount of useful information related in an open, nonjudgmental, insightful style. <br />Dr. D. Merilee Clusis and Dr. G. Dorsey Green bring their own therapuetic and personal experience to the remarkable text, LESBIAN COUPLES. With sensitivity to race, class, physical and mental ability as well as geographical location interacts with chronological age, LESBIAN COUPLES addresses the challenges faced by lesbians seeking to establish committed relationships. While acknowledging the increased acceptance levels exhibited by society, LESBIAN COUPLES takes a long hard look at homophobia, racism and sexism as it affects individual lesbians and couples. While always exhibiting a profound respect for the individuals that create couples, LESBIAN COUPLES encourages self-exploration and self-honesty as individuals attempt to develop healthy and happy relationships. I spent about a month working my way through the book, journaling, and learning to implement many of the skills in the book, and feel that it has transformed my life. A book that must be added to every lesbian's keeper shelf, LESBIAN COUPLES earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence. <br />Grace Weaver	2003-05-27
1110410:US	49693975	R20DUWOXAC7E6S	0373711301	705296145	A Husband of her Own (Harlequin Superromance No. 1130)	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Fabulous heroine! Highly recommended	In her early thirties, Rebecca Wells still sneaks an occasional cigarette and struggles to control her temper. Her nemesis Josh Hill, who lived across the street when they were growing up, fills her father's dreams of an ideal child, resulting in twenty-four years of discord. The wounds still have not healed, especially when her father announces that she is not invited to her parents anniversary party unless she promises to behave, meaning she has to strike a truce with Josh.<br />No one knows about the evening a year ago that proves that the chemistry between them has escalated, but neither Rebecca nor Josh can quite forget. With her best friend married, Rebecca decides it is time to marry and move away from Dundee, where her reputation has proven to be quite limiting. Unfortunately, her fiancé is more concerned with getting his great aunt to the wedding than sticking with a wedding date, so she dumps him and looks a bit closer to home. The question remains if Josh is up to her wild eccentricities!<br />I confess a weakness for heroines who do not fit the classic model of decorum. I identify with women like Rebecca who struggle with to grow beyond her reputation as a troublemaker and to quit smoking. It's heroines like Rebecca that make Superromances sparkle, because they are flawed, sassy and real. And they get guys like Josh, a fantasy come true. And with author Brenda Novak's pen, they also get a very bumpy ride on the way to romance, filled with the emotional conundrums that makes her stories outrageous, fun and believable. A HUSBAND OF HER OWN comes highly recommended.	2003-05-27
1110564:US	49693975	R26EF069F1LZAL	0062508768	313552863	Russian Gypsy Fortune Telling Cards	Books	5	3	3	N	N	These cards kick ...! Very highly recommended	I've been using these cards for about ten years, and just recently bought them as a birthday gift for my priestess. My experience with them is that they are amazingly accurate. Don't ask questions that you don't really want the truth about!	2003-05-27
1112655:US	49693975	RHN4HJX5J9CU	0765306557	532234918	Understudy	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Impossible to put down! Very highly recommended	At a crossroads, Amy Shiley makes a life altering decision that resounds with profound ethical dilemmas. Unable to speak while lying in her hospital bed, Amy overhears news of the death of her best friend Robin Mulcahey. Amy had been driving the car when slick roads and too much alcohol resulted in a tragic accident. Because both women were severely facially damaged but shared a similar body build, and had exchanged personal items before getting in the car, a case of misidentification results in an extraordinary opportunity. Realizing that no one will mourn her, Amy assumes her best friend's life. <br />It seems the perfect solution for a woman with no family. She continues the role of beloved daughter, filling the gap for Robin's family and sparing them tremendous grief. Although Amy is in love with Robin's brother Paul, it is not until a year and a half later that she learns she gave up his love with the identity switch. Further, the ideal impression she had of Robin's family does not bear up under reality. Amy's identity switch brings professional success, when she becomes a well-known soap opera star and marries a fellow actor. But as things come unraveled, she soon feels as though she is trapped in her own personal soap opera. <br />Author Carole Bellacera pens an exhilarating romantic suspense with UNDERSTUDY. Switched identities may be a long favored plot device, but Bellacera finds a way to add her own exciting flair, resulting in tale that readers will find impossible to put down. Although Robin and Amy are complete opposites, Amy's transformation is incredibly believable. Further, the secrets of Robin's life become driving motivation for Amy to confront the truth of the past as well as her own personal truths. Secondary characterizations are likewise memorable, especially Bellacera's thoughtful and insightful handling of Amy's husband's complicated feelings toward her and his past. A novel rich with psychological insight, UNDERSTUDY comes very highly recommended.	2003-05-24
1112940:US	49693975	R1N544UIE2ZANL	0373711328	36270074	Keeping Faith: A Little Secret (Harlequin Superromance No. 1132)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Challenging family issues - Recommended	Comfortable in the \\"henhouse\\" as her mother calls it, Hannah Riley enjoys having her extended family surround her. Loyal to a fault, Hannah appreciates the way her family supported her through the darkest days of her life, when her heart was broken and depression sent her life spiraling out of control. But recently, resentment of her family's smothering begins to build. Especially when a week before her daughter Faith's sixth birthday, Hannah spies an ad for a performance of Liam Tully, singer for Celtic folk group and Faith's father.<br />Stunned that Hannah did not have an abortion six years ago, as her mother claimed, Liam scarcely knows how to react to the announcement of his daughter. When Hannah brings him pictures, however, Liam sees himself in the beautiful child and feels the pull of blood. Soon he finds his way to Hannah's home, but recriminations from her family make creating space for a relationship with his daughter difficult and with Hannah virtually impossible. Yet Liam cannot imagine returning to his world of music and forgetting either one of them. <br />KEEPING FAITH brings an unexpected dazzle to the opportunities presented by second chances. However, while Janice Macdonald gracefully tackles challenging family issues, some readers may grow a bit impatient with this thirty-one-year old heroine who still lives at home and lacks appropriate family boundaries. Her ongoing inability to live her own life destroyed her marriage six years ago and threatens her opportunity for second chances. Consequently, readers may find it difficult to stick with this dysfunctional family long. Nevertheless, those willing to savor the heroine's remarkable growth will thoroughly enjoy the complications that make the road to happiness a complicated goal. In addition, secondary characters provide a powerful presence, especially with Macdonald's tactful yet honest portrayal of an eating disorder. KEEPING FAITH comes recommended.	2003-05-24
1115181:US	49693975	R1RJLNU4VV5VM1	0373441665	320739278	You'll Be Mine In 99  The 100-Year Itch	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Terrific Duet! Very highly recommended	YOU'LL BE MINE IN '99 by Jennifer Drew: The mother/daughter writing team of Barbara Andrews and Pam Hanson pen another amusing romp with YOU'LL BE MINE IN '99. Their zany style sparkles as Hiho, Ohio gears up for their centennial celebration. Joel Carter, the great-great grandchild of Hiho's founders presents proof that Hiho is only 99 years old. He despises small towns, but must be present to fulfill work obligations. He doesn't realize that the possibility of loss of funds to this year's budget threaten both the town's library and the nearby college's building plan. <br />Further, Joel's job is on the line. Vision Motors is sponsoring a beauty pageant in conjunction with the town's centennial celebration. The winner of the pageant will become the spokesperson for their new SUV, called the Incline. Librarian Katy Sloan thinks the Incline, which she nicknames the Decline, is the ugliest vehicle she has ever seen; moreover she is not participating in the pageant. But when Joel's boss sees her, he wants Katy for Vision's spokesperson. But Katy thinks beauty contests are demeaning and insulting. Nevertheless, Joel's proof of 99 years might just be enough to convince her to participate when the alternative is to loose her job to economics. <br />As small town heroine and big city hero clash, readers will enjoy the comical result. Characters spring to life with remarkable vividness. Be careful where you read this novel. I happened to be in [my local bookstore], and other patrons were startled by my unmistakable giggles. YOU'LL BE MINE IN '99 is definitely one of Jennifer Drew's best! <br />THE HUNDRED YEAR ITCH by Holly Jacobs: Jacobs picks up perfectly where writing duo Jennifer Drew leaves off, continuing the small town saga of the centennial celebration. Often readers feel a bit of disconnection when moving between authors, particularly when the town and theme are shared. In this case, Jacobs captures the flavor of Hiho, Ohio perfectly, continuing with favored characters and creating a few of her own. <br />In the week before Hiho, centennial celebration, Zoe Wallace finds herself the Chairperson of the committee organizing activities. Between finding judges with teeth and preventing judges biases, she finds herself showing around a visiting news reporter. Theodore \\"Mace\\" Mason feels limited by his reporting job TV channel, WMAC \\"where nice news matters,\\" in Erie, PA. He longs for the hard bite of real news, and this small \\"podunk\\" town detour is irritably unwelcome. When he meets Zoe Wallace, Mace does not bat a lash at her outrageous makeover, earning him a gentleman reputation. But he will be treading heavily on that reputation if he reports his discovery of a small town conspiracy to conceal the flawed dates regarding the centennial celebration.<br />When she overhears Mace's podunk reference, Zoe does not like his attitude even while she fights their growing attraction. Mace likewise finds Zoe enchanting, but knows at the end of the week he will be returning to big city life. Soon, however, their mutual concern over the legality of the town's centennial celebration forces them to work together. The Pawley Trust pays off when the town celebrates the centennial, and for it to fall through now would be incredibly devastating. Conflicting views and a need to trust lend Mace's and Zoe's attraction a dynamic and fiery element. <br />If she could not set the tale in Erie, Pennsylvania like the rest of her novels, then Jacobs simply brings a sexy hero from Erie to Hiho, Ohio. The result is the wildly amusing read readers have come to expect from this terrific author. Zoe and Mace compliment each other nicely, even as they struggle with virtually overwhelming conflicts. Secondary characters likewise provide humor, especially with the geriatric baton twirling grandma and the toothless Tom Walters who won't wear dentures even if the pie has nuts. <br />The simple joy of creation shared by authors Drew and Jacobs makes this collectionsparkle with every word. They very obviously had a great time creating Hiho and its memorable citizens. Consequently, this Duets comes very highly recommended!	2003-05-22
1117588:US	49693975	R3HTE54DXVD6R7	0446609919	208589485	Last Breath	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Recommended	At twenty, Steve King planned to become a priest. Then one night leaving the church, someone murdered him. Father Brendan Quinlan finds him crucified on Holy Saturday. Church members feel outraged by events, but none more than Chloe Ryder, especially when Father Brendan falls under suspicion. With a background as cop before becoming an attorney, Chloe knows how the system works once someone falls under suspicion. <br />Detective Matthew Diel immediately recognizes Chloe when he arrives to investigate the murder. Their shared personal history results in an odd mix of attraction and distance, lending their interactions a biting edge. Chloe's Ice Queen persona does not discourage Matthew from agreeing to work with her to find answers. Soon Chloe and Matthew realize that Steve's death was not the target; rather, Father Brendan faces a deadly plan. The case proceeds slowly, with the careful orchestration of a well-concealed conspiracy.<br />Author Rachel Lee introduces a powerful cast of characters in LAST BREATH. Chloe's painful past gives her a cold exterior that only rarely reveals her vulnerabilities. Matthew's role in her past is unexpected and believable. Father Brendan, however, absolutely dazzles with his devotion to his God and determination to perform his duty to his parishioners. While rich characterizations make LAST BREATH a rewarding reading experience, however, mystery lovers may be unsatisfied with the nebulous conclusion that leaves some questions unanswered. Readers who enjoy LAST BREATH certainly will be hoping for a sequel.	2003-05-20
1121660:US	49693975	R3FGVKKB0WWBFS	0758204280	950486991	Bad Boys On Board (Watson Brothers)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Hot! Hot! Hot! Very highly recommended	One of the greatest weaknesses of anthologies is that inevitably one of the selections does not live up to the quality of the other stories; however, readers need not have that concern with BAD BOYS ON BOARD! Authors Lori Foster, Donna Kauffman and Nancy Warren team together for three terrific novellas about bad boys and the girls who love them. These bad boys really know how to turn up the heat. Sexy, sassy and seductive, these tales will certainly satisfy lovers of romantica.<br />\\"My House, My Rules\\" by Lori Foster: When dynamo Ariel Mathers comes to the rescue of undercover cop Sam Watson, sparks fly. She previously had dated his younger brother, and Sam has decreed hands off. But he when he takes her home for repairs after their encounter, Sam finds himself in a dominating role in a desperate ploy to remain in control of his own emotions. One of the hottest romance authors of our generation, Foster once again proves her talented pen with this lightly dominating story that sizzles! <br />\\"Going Down\\" by Donna Kauffman: A stalled elevator results in an erotic interlude for strangers Callie Montgomery and Dominic Colbourne. Recently divorced, Callie believes she must make her mark in the corporate world after her marriage failed so miserably. Dominic also does not believe himself cut out for romance although he is a successful millionaire. But in the dark, they find common ground and sensual excitement. Kauffman's provocative style sizzles in the ultimate elevator story!<br />\\"A Fast Ride\\" by Nancy Warren: A booby trap lands a mysterious biker right in Gertie's beans and results in great niece Nell giving CPR. When he awakens, a case of amnesia and coincidence leaves him assuming that Nell is his woman and that he is a member of the Hog Squad gang. With an opportunity like this, Nell decides to take advantage and to live on the wild side. Warren's gift for the unexpected gives readers a wild ride!	2003-05-16
1121904:US	49693975	R20FA32669PXPN	0373790856	935465504	Show & Tell (Harlequin Blaze, No 81)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Ultimate pleasure -- Very highly recommended	Tantric sex, touted to bring ultimate pleasure, inspires investigative reporter Knox Webber into action. He is a show-and-tell journalist, producing facts and urging the public to draw their own conclusions. Know dismisses the value of tantric sex as the latest new age hype taught by aging hippies to fleece the public. So he arranges a weekend workshop and insures the one woman in the world immune to his charm accompany him.<br />Savannah Reeves has carefully cultivated an image of being competitive and hostile toward one Knox in an effort to maintain her distance. She knows the outcome of this weekend investigation could be nothing short of disastrous, but when her editor insists that she goes, Savannah reluctantly agrees. When the Tantric energy sizzles between them, Knox and Savannah discover that seduction begins with the simplest of life's pleasures.<br />Author Rhonda Nelson's gift for daring adventure sparkles in SHOW & TELL. Competitive edge brings Knox and Savannah together, but it is only personal vulnerabilities that allow them to create something more. Depth of characterization and fun plot will hold readers glued to the page, possibly inspiring their own tantric indulgences. Indeed, the phrase SHOW & TELL takes on a whole new meaning with talented Rhonda Nelson's pen. A sensual treat, SHOW & TELL comes very highly recommended.	2003-05-16
1122315:US	49693975	RVMG4KZZJY52W	0373691270	10323582	Once Upon A Mattress  (The Wrong Bed)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Terrific, sexy contemporary romance	Word of his parents' impending divorce sends fun loving Ben MacAllister home. Assuming he will finally be able to prove his worth, Ben prepares for responsibility for the family business and to be a pillar of strength to the family. But his mother's margarita parties and his father's travel trailer leave him feeling unneeded, not to mention disillusioned. Apparently MacAllister mattresses out last MacAllister marriages. Worse, his father plans to sell the family business just as Ben seems to be carving his nitch.<br />A new house and a new beginning scarcely seem the promising beginning Heather Sinclair needs when a portion of her roof collapses from heavy rain. Her already damaged bank account cannot afford repairmen and hotel rooms, so Heather temporarily borrows one of the test rooms in the mattress factory, hoping for a few hours respite. She does not expect to awaken with the sexy Ben in her bed! Nor did he expect his sensual dream to be based in reality!<br />I admit that Temptation's Wrong Bed series heads my favorite long term series, and author Kathleen O'Reilly lives up to me expectations with pizzazz. Heather and Ben seem to say all the wrong things, come together in the wrong places, and get the sensuality exactly right! With witty dialogue and amusing plot to provide an absolutely memorable read, ONCE UPON A MATTRESS comes very highly recommended.	2003-05-16
1122476:US	49693975	RDJ1G4ZPICE5Z	037371131X	989096185	The Target : The Guardians (Harlequin Superromance No. 1131)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Exhilarating romantic suspense -- Very highly recommended	Although their chemistry seems to be perfect, Hannah Crosby and Quinn McNichol face irreconcilable differences. Both she and Quinn are on the bomb squad EXIT, an Explosives and Incendiary Team. After two and half years of dating, at thirty-two Hannah wants marriage and children. Quinn believes that the danger of their careers precludes their ability to be responsible for children. Then poised on the final explosion of their relationship, the unthinkable happens. A bomb nearly kills Quinn. <br />Hours and days and weeks at Quinn's side take their toll on Hannah. With her logic flawed by stress and sleep deprivation, she starts making mistakes on the job. Their eventual breakup, however, does not resolve their feelings. Neither moves beyond the love they once shared. Surprisingly, the bomber who destroyed their lives proves to be the one to bring them together professionally again. Unfortunately, they still face the personal challenges that already destroyed their relationship once.<br />Author Kay David pens another exhilarating romantic suspense with THE TARGET. Inspired by the September 11th event, David explores the personal challenges that create tension when a career daily puts one's life on the line. Courage in the face of professional danger comes easily for Hannah and Quinn, but courage on the personal level proves to be far more difficult. Risk, loss and sacrifice lend THE TARGET an emotional complexity that makes it impossible to put down. Another one to add to the keeper shelf, THE TARGET comes very highly recommended.	2003-05-16
1122517:US	49693975	R1Y3JTUWC5UBZ1	037327288X	904431507	The Quiet Storm (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A keeper! Very highly recommended	One moment Elizabeth Quinn can radiate fire and the next moment she radiates cool composure. When she appears at the precinct hoping to convince someone to reopen a case, however, Detective Beau Riley wants nothing to do with it. Elizabeth inadvertently snubbed him a year earlier at a party, and Beau has never forgotten. He does not know that her deliberate speech and cool exterior masks a slight speech impediment caused by brain damage at birth. As a result, for years Elizabeth has endured cruel taunts and vicious criticism causing her to mask her feelings in rigid indifference.<br />But Elizabeth feels anything but indifferent when she asks Beau to investigate Tina's death. She is certain that her friend Tina would never have committed suicide, especially when she was looking forward to having her five-year-old son Alex back. Alex had been living with Elizabeth and her housekeeper, the boy's grandmother. Elizabeth loves and identifies with Alex, who is deaf. As a favor to his former partner who referred Elizabeth, Beau agrees to poke around in his off time, little expecting Elizabeth's assertions to be correct.<br />Author Raeanne Thayne upholds her reputation for penning exciting intrigue in THE QUIET STORM. Elizabeth proves herself a vulnerable and insecure heroine, hiding her weaknesses behind a cool exterior. Her subsequent mixed signals are not enough to entirely discourage this sexy hero, however! Secondary characters are likewise delightful, especially the irrepressible Alex. Making children believable without upstaging the main characters is difficult, but Thayne pulls off the challenge with style. Indeed, Thayne's talent for unconventional characters and a fascinating plot makes THE QUIET STORM a keeper. Very highly recommended.	2003-05-16
1122519:US	49693975	R232GV82UM70L9	037371128X	958582409	The Secret Daughter: Raising Cane, Book 2 (Harlequin Superromance, No 1128)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Terrific! Very highly recommended	When he died, Duke Fontaine left behind a secret daughter. His acknowledged children, Casey and Jackson, discovered the news of Noelani Hana in old letters between their father and Noelani's mother. Devastated that their father had an affair while married to their mother, they are not welcoming to Noelani. She does not mind. She would not want anything of the estate except it would afford her to fulfilling her lifelong dream of purchasing a sugar mill<br />Unfortunately, when Noelani arrives she learns the estate is cash poor until recent losses are recovered from insurance and the next sugar crop is harvested. With suspicious activity making the Fontaine heirs suspect someone is out to sabotage their business, they soon find themselves joining forces. Adam Ross also proves his value, but Noelani resists becoming involved with a man she will inevitably leave behind in a few months.<br />Authors who share a series and then pen only the middle section of a trilogy face profound challenges in keeping the overlapping characters and plotlines both consistent and believable. Author Roz Denny Fox rises to the occasion with her characteristic flair in THE SECRET DAUGHTER. Readers of the first part of the \\"Raising Cane\\" miniseries met Casey, encountering a strong, determined woman who would not accept the news of a secret sister easily. Fox maintains Casey's harsh strength, developing it into the resentment and anger that seems incredibly appropriate, especially in light of her recent loss. Noelani's own resentment of the past gives way to shimmering new emotions as she encounters siblings that match her determination and resourcefulness. Only a hero like Adam equals such a powerful woman. Fox realizes the emotional depths of these characters with the dazzling clarity and extraordinary perception that readers have come to expect from her work. THE SECRET DAUGHTER comes very highly recommended.	2003-05-16
1122682:US	49693975	R2WO1WLQKAT3AR	0373711255	904168841	The Wrong Woman	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Intriguing! Highly recommended	Secrets have dominated Serena Farrell's life. Her grandfather kept their financial condition quiet, indulging Serena and her grandmother's every need while potentially bankrupting their future. Both grandparents refused to discuss Serena's mother and father or events surrounding her birth. But when a stranger mistakes her for an identical woman, Serena seeks answers.<br />Business takes private investigator Ethan Ramsey to a seamy Dallas nightclub where he sees a striking red head that seems none too happy about her job. When he sees her again at a coffee shop, Ethan introduces himself and offers his assistance. Taken aback, Serena pockets the card as she denies a connection to the mysterious woman. But soon Serena pulls the card from the trash when she finds herself intrigued by possibilities her grandmother refuses to discuss. <br />Fans will recognize Ethan Ramsey from STRAIGHT FROM THE HEART and EMILY'S DAUGHTER and agree it is time he gets his own story! And Ethan finds exactly the kind of woman he deserves if only they can sweep aside the intrigue and risk their hearts. The contrast and commonalities in twins Serena and Sarah proves fascinating, and will leave readers chiming for Sarah's story. With complex family dynamics and fascinating characterizations, THE WRONG WOMAN lives up to Linda Warren's reputation for excellence. THE WRONG WOMAN comes highly recommended.	2003-05-16
1124100:US	49693975	R2UW1PCWJVYGOD	0373790899	44189409	By the Book (Harlequin Blaze, No 85)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A sensual treat! Highly recommended	A sensual treat! Highly recommended<br />A dyslexic mailman brings neighbors Shari Wilson and Luke Lawson together frequently. The night Shari finally works her nerve up to ask Luke out, however, things go badly wrong when the package she is bringing to Luke falls open, revealing the startling book title: SEX FOR TOTAL MORONS: A HOW-TO GUIDE. Mortified that she had been fantasizing about a man who needs a how-to book for steamy encounters, Shari makes a quick exit.<br />Determined to repair bridges with his flustered neighbor, Luke devises a plan. As the author of the book, Luke certainly knows how to please his partner. But Shari is a high school English teacher, and would be the perfect woman for helping Luke to experiment and see first hand how valid his own advise can be. So he makes plans to follow his own advise in the book, asking Shari to help. <br />Imperfect but steamy encounters combine the humorous with the risqué in BY THE BOOK. I couldn't resist a chortle when Luke suffers from sleep depravation and low blood sugar, passing out at the sight of Shari's naked body. Indeed, Duets fans will easily recognize author Nancy Warren's quirky, irreverent humor in every page, even as she turns on the heat in this sensual treat. Shari and Luke certainly discover that nothing works exactly by the book when the heart is involved! BY THE BOOK comes highly recommended.	2003-05-14
1124466:US	49693975	R18N2T2T4JG1RJ	0373790910	532527633	Wild and Wicked (Harlequin Blaze, No 87)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wildly provocative! Very highly recommended	Best friends and business partners, Kyra Stafford and Jesse Chandler flirt outrageously, but both know there is no substance behind he suggestions. After all, consummate bad boy Jesse cherishes the one long lasting female friendship he has and would never do anything to compromise it. Unfortunately, Kyra longs for compromising situations with Jesse. So she decides to assert her desires and kidnap Jesse at the Gasparilla event--Florida's equivalent of Mardi Gras. Dressed as a pirate/domoninatrix, she steals Jesse from his fashion model escort without apology.<br />Jesse sucks at relationships and does not appreciated being wanted just for sex. After all, he thought Kyra was the one female in his life who saw him as something more than a sex object. Meanwhile, Kyra nurses a bruised heart because she is the only woman Jesse never seems to want. She announces that she intends to take advantage of his bad boy reputation and wield every trick of seduction she has witnessed him using. Nevertheless, despite his opportune rescue at Gasparilla and Kyra's wildly seductive offer, Jesse refuses Kyra's overt overtures.<br />Crossing the boundaries between friends and lovers results in a richly sensual read in WILD AND WICKED. As Jesse and Kyra explore promising possibilities, this consummates bad boy finds traditional sexual roles reversed. Amidst rampant lust, Kyra exercises her unused feminine wiles in her determination to win her night with Jesse. But events do not follow either of their plans, resulting in a novel rich with emotional complexity. Author Joanne Rock's sleek, sensuous prose smolders with eroticism, building to a wildly provocative Blaze that belongs on the keeper shelf. WILD AND WICKED comes very highly recommended.	2003-05-14
1125094:US	49693975	R333AZR5DZP4TF	0440241162	273850052	Nerd in Shining Armor	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Wonderful fun! Highly recommended	When her family sold Elvis's boxes, they created a new life for themselves far from their Tennessee roots in Hawaii. Now Genevieve Terrence's carefully cultivated tones and polished exterior reveal little of her past until she suddenly abandoned by her betraying boss and left to go down in the plain with nerd Jackson \\"Jack\\" Farley. Fortunately, too many hours of late night gaming and simulations provide Jack with a useful skill and he manages to ditch the plane close enough to land for he and Genevieve to survive. Alone on a deserted island, Jackson and Genevieve hope to avoid their dangerous boss and await rescue. <br />Of course, with a hero like Jack to save their lives in the plane, and then again to tow her to safety when her strength drains completely away, Genevieve suddenly looks at him with new eyes. Then again, a missing contact might have something to do with her second look too, but there's no denying hormone. Although they are alone in an island paradise where they are free to explore their erotic fantasies, they also lack food, shelter, and rescue. Worse, when they are rescued Jack may simply abandon Genevieve for the latest programming challenge.<br />Author Vicki Lewis Thompson pens her first single title in NERD IN SHINING ARMOR, a rollicking read fans won't want to miss. With her characteristic flair, Thompson weaves humor, love and the unexpected in this exciting summer read. Nick is the perfect nerd hero with his computer compulsions and private work out area. Genevieve and her family add an unexpected eclectic flavor with psychic gifts and hair dye. While the hillbilly humor may weigh a bit heavy, the remarkably fun tale still satisfies. A deftly creative tale, NERD IN SHINING ARMOR comes highly recommended.	2003-05-14
1128661:US	49693975	R85RQZQUQHUEL	0515135305	702796064	Catching Midnight	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	In 1349, Gillian is cast into the streets of London without even a crust of bread when her mother and her younger brother show symptoms of the plague. As the city lies dying, Gillian flees to the woods where members of an ancient race discover her. They force her to choose between Auriclus' ways of the forests and Nim Wei's dominance of the cities. Gillian chooses not to be a queen, but the ways of the forests. That choice will forge her destiny.<br />In 1370 Gillian seeks her freedom, leaving behind the upyr and forging a bond with a peregrine falcon. Then Aimery Fitz Clare, second son to a noble house captures her. In his dreams, Gillian comes to him as a goddess, first to regain her sight which had been taken temporarily as a part of the falcon's training, and then fore more. Gillian decides that Aimery will be her guide back into the human world. But as their love grows, so does the dangerous jealousy from humans and upyr alike that threatens their every step.<br />This is my first sojourn into the novels by Emma Holly, but having experienced her wonderful story telling ability, it will not be the last. CATCHING MIDNIGHT is a marvelously gripping mix of passion, sensuality, paranormal settings, betrayal and triumph. The exquisite detailing of the ancient upyr with their earthy sensuality and their ability to live only in the moment sharply contrasts Gillian's desire for knowledge that reaches beyond experience. Despite those heart felt needs, however, Gillian is also an earthy, sensual woman who fears releasing the animal within just as much as Aimery fears remembering the butchery of the battlefields. As alike as they are different, Gillian and Aimery face considerable challenges and extraordinary danger with grace. Secondary characters are likewise dazzling in their complexity and depth, lending the novel an incredible richness. A sensual feast that readers will want to add to their keeper shelf, CATCHING MIDNIGHT earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2003-05-10
1128737:US	49693975	RFIDXO5CDU1S1	0446611727	887597479	Some Girls Do (Warner Forever)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Perfect blend of fun and sensuality - Highly recommended	Katie Collins carefully conceals her good looks with dowdy clothes and heavy glasses, hoping to be judged by her ability and not her appearance. With a boss working on his fifth marriage, she certainly does not wish to draw the attention of an insecure woman-not with her family responsibilities and driving need to succeed. When her boss Ivan offers a hundred thousand dollars to find his unattractive daughter a husband, Katie accepts with the hope of finally assuring financial stability. Unfortunately, she shares responsibility for Wilhelmina with security specialist Michael Wingate.<br />Michael likewise has a driving need to succeed. While Katie provides prospective candidates for Wilhelmina to marry, he must screen the candidates, ruling out ex-convicts, freeloaders, disease carriers, and rednecks. At the last minute, Ivan slipped his hairless cat's protection into the contract as well. So when both Wilhelmina and the cat disappear, it is up to Katie and Michael to work together to get them back before Katie looses his job and Michael looses his contract. Their adventure will lead them to Texas, where tall hair and tall hats mark a territory completely foreign to a man like Michael, but familiar to Katie in incredibly uncomfortable ways. <br />Author Leanne Banks brings her characteristically succinct skill of penning lighthearted romps to her first full-length novel in SOME GIRLS DO. Dynamic characterizations spring to life, especially Katie who determinedly distances herself from her mother's image. Consequently, her transformation from prude to siren will have readers amused, particularly as it brings out the protective instincts of this marvelous hero. In fact, Michael and Katie share a determination to also overcome their parents' flaws, not to mention a scintillating chemistry that adds sensual texture to an otherwise amazingly playful read. The secondary plot likewise provides a wonderful storyline, especially with Wilhelmina's unlikely price charming and the world's ugliest cat. Katie's mother's words of wisdom likewise add a note of hilarity and levity readers will love. The result proves that fairy tales can come true when SOME GIRLS DO. The perfect blend between fun and sensuality, SOME GIRLS DO comes highly recommended.	2003-05-10
1129420:US	49693975	R2UK9EWTATH4WP	0373790902	709712563	As Bad as Can Be: Under the Covers (Harlequin Blaze, No 86)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Exhilarating and seductive - Very highly recommended	Serving Screaming Orgasms and encouraging barmaids to dance on the bar, Mallory Carson intends to make her new business Bad Reputation a success, despite brother Dave's interference. But when he sends his friend Shay O'Connor to spy, things go too far. Especially since Mallory and Shay find themselves alone in a very compromising position before either learns the other's identity. Worse, Shay walks away like it was nothing.<br />Men do not walk away from Mallory Carson. She does the walking on her terms and when she is ready. Unfortunately, her body does not seem to remember her own rules. Shay does not want to seduce his buddy's sister; Mallory does not want Shay's interference about the way she runs Bad Reputation. So when she learns Shay's identity, Mallory decides someone is playing games, and she is evening the score. She proceeds to show Shay just how bad she can be. <br />Author Kristin Hardy's rising star continues to dazzle with AS BAD AS CAN BE. Mallory conceals her vulnerability behind a bad attitude that intrigues Shay even as her walls keep him away. Indeed, sensual moments threaten to make the pages spontaneously combust with scenes filled with spontaneity and naughtiness as Mallory's bad girl attitude and Shay's good guy persona clash. I admit to falling in love with Mallory's bad girls and their love for dancing on the bar, resulting in a tone that is both exhilarating and seductive. Consequently, AS BAD AS CAN BE comes very highly recommended.	2003-05-10
1129469:US	49693975	ROIW28BQ1XX39	0373196636	435319079	The Knight's Kiss	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Marvelous paranormal! Very highly recommended	In 1163 a knight entrusted with the King's business, Domenico di Bollazio Black stood at a turning point that would transform his life. Rather than going back to save a child, he decides to keep to his schedule and fulfill his mission for the King. But when the boy's red headed mother stops him, she leaves him with a curse of immortality. The curse can only be broken if he can learn to sacrifice himself for others. In the current century he calls himself Nick Black, living the life of an eccentric hermit and searching for records of the woman who could free him of his eternal life.<br />Princess Isabella diTalora seeks Nick out personally, having heard remarkable recommendations from other historicists in the field. Little does she suspect he was born in San Rimini and has walked the same halls as she, albeit 800 years ago. Isabella intends to finish a historical project begun by her mother, and she needs Nick's help cataloging a huge collection of artifacts and historical documents currently gathering dust in the royal palace. Fulfilling such a request affords Nick the opportunity to examine hereto unrecorded documents that might hold the clues to his quest. It also presents his greatest challenge yet: not acting on his attraction to the princess. <br />Readers who enjoy a touch of the paranormal will treasure Nicole Burnham's THE KNIGHT'S KISS. In this mesmerizing novel, Burnham demonstrates a remarkable gift for transforming the improbably into something absolutely believable. Nick's understanding of Isabella's need for anonymity provides the perfect date, and an amusing outcome. As their relationship develops, it is at once tender and endearing. Readers will delight in this paranormal, even as it takes a sharp departure from the glitter casinos of Burnham's previous work. One can only wonder at what might spring from this marvelously creative author next! THE KNIGHT'S KISS comes very highly recommended.	2003-05-10
1130022:US	49693975	R351OFODBFTPJO	0373245416	989635121	The Unexpected Wedding Guest  Something Old Something New	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wonderful sequel to the WEDDING OF THE CENTURY	For years Max Trevetti has treated his sister's friend Suzanna Grant as just another younger sister. But her return to Tobias, Wisconsin for his sister Annette's wedding leaves Max determined to fight his growing attraction. When a bit too much celebrating lowers inhibitions, Max suddenly sees Suz in her dynamite red dress. Suz does not leave town quickly, however, and Max soon finds himself confronting not only his feelings, but his own self-limitations. <br />Suz and Max's sister Annette recently sold their joint business, leaving her life suddenly without direction. Unwilling to yield to family pressure to return to her hometown, Suz takes over Annette's responsibilities as Max's assistant while he is overseeing major renovations on a historical landmark. Yet her lack of self-confidence leaves Max determined to bolster her self-image. Neither Suz nor Max, however, are prepared for the consequences of their mutual concern for the other.<br />New discoveries and life-altering decisions aid an growing romance in the \\"Something New\\" part of Patricia McLinn's wonderful miniseries. Once again McLinn demonstrates a dazzling gift for bringing together ordinary, and yet unforgettable characters in an endearing story readers will treasure. Picking up where THE WEDDING OF THE CENTURY concludes, THE UNEXPECTED WEDDING GUEST begins with an unexpected yielding of inhibitions that allows passion to grow into something extraordinary. A heart-warming tale, THE UNEXPECTED WEDDING GUEST comes highly recommended.	2003-05-09
1130397:US	49693975	R2CJU4WPCYF7E0	1931659028	555298772	The Invisible Seam	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Ethical lessons made simple -- Very highly recommended	While aunt recovers from a broken leg, young Michi apprentices to Mistress Shinyo, an aging kimono maker. Before leaving, Michi promises her aunt that she will do her best work and keep free of bitterness. Mistress Shinyo's hands, damaged from arthritis, can no longer sew as they once did, but she promises to teach Michi to sew seams that small and tight. <br />Two other girls also work with Michi, and they resent her ability to learn quickly and supercede their own skills. If Michi makes them look bad, Mistress Shinyo will be angry and expect them to practice more. If they all do poorly, the two girls will have more time to pursue their own pleasures.<br />Based on a true story, all readers will treasure THE INVISIBLE SEAM. In a world filled with instant gratification and getting something for nothing, parents will appreciate the values taught in this story, including working hard, respect for authority, and forgiveness. Exquisite watercolor illustrations include historically accurate detail. bringing the story a stately beauty. THE INVISIBLE SEAM comes very highly recommended!	2003-05-09
1130503:US	49693975	RJUOWE4MJAQVB	037327291X	465394924	Entrapment:  The Tremaine Tradition (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Stunning intensity - Very highly recommended	Only ten thieves in the world have the skills CIA agent Sam Tremaine needs. Only one regularly targets Oppenheimer, to the extent he has to buy an insurance agency in order to cover his own losses. Sam may not know the beautiful thief's agenda, but he is willing to do whatever it takes to bring down the international criminal Oppensheimer, even if he has to hire a thief.<br />Juliette Morris has a plan to deprive Oppenheimer of all his treasures before fulfilling her ultimate goal of revenge. Sam's interference and identification of her only detours her plan, but nothing will make her give it up. When Sam kidnaps Juliette's grandmother to assure cooperation, the stakes escalate. Worse, both she and Sam are aware of the impossible nature of their attraction, yet denying it seems to only add fuel to the flames.<br />An eloquent and fabulously realized romantic intrigue, ENTRAPMENT belongs on the reader's keeper shelf. Once again Kylie Brant brings her characteristic flair for creating memorable characters and a fast paced plot, as complex ethical issues lend a background of suspense and emotional depth that has become the author's trademark. Juliette takes pride in her unorthodox profession, financing her vendetta with stolen goods that are taken from her ultimate target. Sam's recent leg injury lends him just the right level of vulnerability to highlight Juliette's extraordinary strengths. If ever opposites attracted in an unorthodox mix readers will adore, it is here! ENTRAPMENT comes very highly recommended.	2003-05-09
1131767:US	49693975	RDDNLG5SHI86E	1890768375	420048749	Death's Domain: The Sixth Cassidy McCabe Mystery	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Cassidy and Starshine return! Very highly recommended	Psychotherapist Cassidy McCabe faces the fear of losing that which she holds most dear when the past catches up to the present. For years Cassidy has blamed herself for Barbara's death. She had come home unexpectedly, finding her best friend inebriated and in bed with her first husband. Outraged, Cassidy kicked Barbara out. Unfortunately, the drunken Barbara died on the way home, leaving Cassidy with guilt and a disintegrating marriage.<br />Years later, on the anniversary of Barbara's death, a stalker promises retribution. An obituary appears in the local paper featuring Cassidy. Soon the ominous tone of the obituary continues with threatening email and an attempt on husband Zach's life. Determined to find answers, Cassidy and her husband set out to uncover the secrets of the past who still holds Cassidy responsible for Barbara's unfortunate death.<br />DEATH'S DOMAIN, the sixth Cassidy McCabe mystery, brings back a fabulous cast. Indeed, cozy mystery author Alex Matthews continues to dazzle readers with the irrepressible Cassidy, reporter husband Zach, and her mischievous calico Starshine. Cassidy's spunky grandmother and meddlesome mother likewise make their appearances, bringing wit and humor wherever they appear. As always, Mathews provides lots of action, a well-structured plot and plenty of twists to keep the pages turning. Although I enjoy hundreds of books a year, including many mysteries, Cassidy McCabe has managed to capture and hold my heart through the years like no other heroine. DEATH'S DOMAIN comes very highly recommended.	2003-05-07
1137602:US	49693975	R33ULDTPVOZNOY	0316806501	172241246	Sweet Hush: A Novel	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	The fifth of her line, Hush McGillen Thackery believes people are born to be whoever they want to be. It is all in how they tell their story. Hush spins a tale of true love, of the perfect Harvard son and of a successful apple farm. But love was rotten to the core with a man who did not live up to revered image, but whose presence made it acceptable for a business woman to succeed. Now secrets from the past threaten to bring down Hush's idealist image and destroy all she holds dear when her son Davis brings the world's scrutiny because he brings home his secret bride--the president's daughter. <br />The president and his wife are convinced that Hush has ulterior motives and that the marriage between their daughter Hush's son was somehow coerced. They vastly underestimate this Appalachian queen who rules her home, farm and county. When they send the president's cousin Nicholas Jacobek to bring the situation under control, Hush meets the only man in her life who can match her skill at charming bees. But Jacob's dark past conceals a man of kindness and of mercilessness who will do anything to protect family, even kill. <br />Author Deborah Smith succinctly captures the flavor of the south and of powerful matriarchs in SWEET HUSH. Readers will find it impossible to forget these rich characterizations and mesmerizing prose. Hush is blunt, fierce and determined, deserving of a hard man like Jacob. The president's wife Edwina would be easy to hate except Smith carefully reveals her vulnerabilities, devotion and motivation in a way that not only makes her understandable, but likeable despite her bitchy ways. Readers will delight in the image of Hush and Edwina throwing rotten apples at each other in the White House. Easily followed shifting points of view provide interior views of complex motives and tantalizing possibilities. In all, three love stories wind their way around the reader's heart, resulting in a must read tale reader's won't want to miss. SWEET HUSH earns theWordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2003-05-02
1140296:US	49693975	R3M5V759UNE0UM	0821773399	419566247	After The Rain	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Marvelous sequel! Very highly recommended	A woman on the run, photographer Suzanne disembarks the bus on a whim, choosing to stay in Walton, Georgia. Unused to children, her comment regarding leash laws and children captures Joe's attention. Introducing herself as Suzanne Paris, she quickly learns that Joe is the town mayor who also happens to be the widowed father of six children. While she knows she cannot remain in Walton long without endangering her safety, Suzanne quickly finds herself falling in love with the citizens of Walton and their mayor. <br />Unlike the citizens of Walton who proudly cling to their deep southern roots, Suzanne is a drifter without ties to her past. Her alcoholic mother had disappeared when she was a teen, leaving behind only a necklace with the inscription, \\"A life without rain is like the sun without shade.\\" Foster homes and emotional damage have exacted their toll, but Suzanne soon discovers the rain and the sun of Walton. Suzanne blossoms under the warmth of new friends and longs to linger in the healing atmosphere and near Joe and his remarkable children.<br />Author Lisa Plumley pens an elegantly enchanting southern novel in AFTER THE RAIN. Fans of FALLING HOME will welcome the return of favorite characters the beauty of Plumley's evocative prose. Indeed, readers will find themselves chuckling and tearful as the powerful characterizations sweep them into the marvelous small Georgia town and its memorable citizens. As the town conspires to protect Suzanne from threats of the past, she finds redemption and healing in the most unexpected of ways. Readers will be extremely reluctant to depart and will be clamoring for yet another sequel. AFTER THE RAIN comes very highly recommended.	2003-04-30
1145280:US	49693975	R3OUXY3U990AJP	0373711247	781498505	Vital Signs: Emergency! (Harlequin Superromance No. 1124)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A touching, character driven romance -- Highly recommended	Two year-old David Riggs was alone three days before a neighbor called about a loud tv that went on all night and all morning. Too young to reach the water tap, David was dehydrated and conscious in the ninety degree heat when rescue personnel find him. Such a tragedy touches the heart of all ER personnel, but none as much as pediatric nurse Hailey Bergstrom who wants a child of her own. But Hailey knows she is plain, and men do not find her attractive.<br />Rather than wait for the right guy to marry to come along before having children, Hailey signs up to adopt a child. When David's plight brings him to her floor, Hailey wants him. In charge of David's case, social worker Roy Zedyck sees the magic Hailey works on the pediatric floor. A woman who can wear a tale and bunny ears to make children smile, Hailey quickly captures his heart. But life has a way of dealing harsh surprises, and neither Hailey nor Roy are prepared to loose David to a mother who who would abandon him.<br />Author Bobby Hutchinson gracefully acknowledges the harsh realities and the delicate works of the heart in VITAL SIGNS. While it would be easy to damn a mother out of hand for abandoning her child, Hutchinson instills gentle understanding of an impossible situation. The powerful relationship between mother and child, and the important relationship between caregiver and child result in a novel with powerful depth. Further, Hutchinson does not provide simple, easy answers to this gripping drama, allowing a touch of realism to temper the happily-ever-after romance. The result is terrific read that comes highly recommended.	2003-04-25
1145748:US	49693975	RO1JJZN3RLUAZ	0373441630	984486900	A Hickey for Harriet / A Cradle for Caroline	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A lot of fun! -- Highly recommended	Being raised by two maiden aunts and with a name like hers, Harriet Adelaide MacPherson feels limited. She might have been a fabulous athlete, dancer and gymnast, but girls named Harriet do not become cheerleaders, no matter how good they are. Worse, a five minute beauty routine and sweaters sets with plaid skirts do not pave the way to romance, unless she wants to date a mortician. Certainly her high school crush Steve Ackerman never noticed her, not even later when they worked together at the same newspaper. At least not until the day Harriet tries to give herself a hickey with a turkey baster in the ladies restroom. Before long, Steve persuades Harriet to pursue her high school dream of becoming a cheerleader for the Braves football team, Harriet's makeover has unexpected results for all!<br />When she catches her husband in a compromising position, Caroline Kushner walks out on her husband Jonathon. Painful fertility issues had damaged their relationship, making communication difficult and reconciliation impossible. Despite the damage to their relationship, however, Jonathon and Caroline clearly love each other. As Jonathon attempts to win his wife back, and she questions if she judged him too harshly, life seems to conspire to add further twists to their already complex relationship.<br />Author Nancy Warren's gift for combining the unexpected with amusing will have readers delighted with this duet combination. Readers who loved movie reviewers Tess and Mike's romance will enjoy their nuptials as a background for even more shenanigans. Harriet and Caroline are studies in opposites, and yet balance the two stories out beautifully. Secondary characters are wonderful fun as well meaning matchmakers appear in variety of guises, from great-aunts or a mother to best friends. Indeed, the geriatric set adds the best secondary characterizations in both duets, lending them the fabulous flair that characterizes Warren's marvelous work. A HICKEY FOR HARRIET/A CRADLE FOR CAROLINE comes highly recommended.	2003-04-25
1146151:US	49693975	RKYCNQUQIFJOL	037316968X	22782992	High-Tide Bride (Harlequin American Romance, No 968)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A lighthearted, amusing romp -- Very highly recommended	When Sheriff Clay Mitchell stops the woman in the voluminous wedding dress who just took out a street sign and fence, she refuses to provide a name or registration. Correction, she cannot provide the registration because she \\"borrowed\\" the catering van to escape her own wedding when she realized her fiancé and her father were conspiring to use her to further their political aspirations. Hope refuses to give her name, however, until she has time to figure out her life, and Paradise Creek seems like a good place to do it after a night in jail.<br />Clay does not know quite what to do with the woman he nicknames Red. She barters fashion sense for bail with his deputy, saves a child and a church, and sparks wild physical attraction in him. Soon the entire town conspires to conceal her true identity from Clay, embracing her as one of their own. Worse, Clay gets lovelorn advice from a ten year old and meddling in his love life from the geriatric set in their determination to right the tone of Paradise Creek after Clay tickets virtually anything that moves in sheer frustration over Red's appearance in his life. But it will take more than being locked in his own jail to set Clay's heart free.<br />Author Dianne Castell pens a mad cap adventure of love, matchmaking and self discovery in HIGH-TIDE BRIDE. Readers will delight in this marvelous cast of characters. Red brings a spontaneous impecuniousness to the small town of Paradise Creek and the Sheriff determined to keep the status quo. While Clay tries to restrain his responses, Red paints the jail, his desk and the water cooler in a frenzy that leaves them both breathless and still filled with desire. Secondary characters likewise dazzle, with an entire town filled with matchmakers of all ages. A marvelously romantic read, HIGH-TIDE BRIDE provides the perfect distraction from the ordinary and mundane. HIGH-TIDE BRIDE comes very highly recommended.	2003-04-25
1151565:US	49693975	R2947FQLID6986	0373245351	47947893	Expecting the CEO's Baby	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A beautiful tale of soul mates - Very highly recommended	An overwrought technician makes a life-altering mistake when she selects the wrong vile for Jenna Winton's insemination. When the director of Emerson Fertility Clinic invites Jenna for a meeting, the last thing she expects is the shocking news or a check for a hundred thousand dollars. Rather than accepting, however, Jenna decides to contact her lawyer and think the situation through. Then an enigmatic, sexy stranger knocks at the door, and her world tilts.<br />Blake Winston never intended to father children the traditional way. He had his sperm frozen knowing that one day he would pay a surrogate for his heirs. When Jenna declines his offer, however, Blake realizes he has met a woman completely unlike any he has ever known. His firm commitment to joint custody quickly gives way to an offer of marriage. Soon their marriage of convenience grows into something far more meaningful.<br />One of the most entrancing authors of our time, author Karen Rose Smith pens a poignant tale of falling in love in EXPECTING THE CEO'S BABY. While marriages of convenience plots are common fair among romance novels, Smith finds a way to add her own characteristic flair to the orchestration of the arrangement, resulting in wildly appealing read. Indeed, Smith has a marvelously fluid style that reveals the past through succinct, introspective moments, strong character motivation, and an absolute belief in soul mates. Moreover, by bringing together two characters that would otherwise never meet and live in vastly different worlds with considerably different perspectives, Smith presents a powerfully rendered tale readers will treasure. EXPECTING THE CEO'S BABY comes very highly recommended.	2003-04-21
1151902:US	49693975	R5QUPFK9E2EIL	0373711239	14238911	Against the Odds: Serenity House (Harlequin Superromance No. 1123)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	The perfect end to the Serenity House series	Fifteen years ago, the Crane brothers assault and plan to rape their stepsister Annabelle. Fortunately, the timely intervention of officer Dan Whitman sends Annabelle to the safety of Serenity House. A few years later, she accepts a nanny position with Nathan Hyde's family. She and Nathan have an affair that ends tragically. Now, after five years as an undercover cop in Seattle, Annabelle returns home to recover from a bullet wound.<br />Nathan's political career has made him the target of stalker. Subtle clues indicate the perpetrator is someone close to him. He refuses the usual bodyguard, and only Dan's interference persuades him to accept Annabelle as an undercover bodyguard. Annabelle plays the role of Nathan's personal assistant, but the success of her assignment may depend upon how well they can control their feelings from the past.<br />Author Katheryn Shay pens an intriguing romance in AGAINST THE ODDS. Readers may object to the number of ethical boundaries that are crossed, however. Annabelle and Nathan's romance first began when he was married to someone else, and she agrees to become his bodyguard despite their personal history. Nevertheless, the greatest potential weaknesses of the story take on surprising strength as the surprising plot plays out. Readers will also cheer Annabelle's handling of her horrible stepbrothers. Fans will likewise enjoy the return of previous Serenity House residents, and can only hope for a second-generation series one day! AGAINST THE ODDS comes highly recommended.	2003-04-20
1152261:US	49693975	R3PA93AMCE5E9S	1592799582	481077245	Eyes Of Betrayal	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Two years ago \\"Snake\\" Marcus Gallego left town on his onyx Harley Davidson, taking Detective LeAnne McVeigh's heart with him. Now he returns with a raven-haired stranger that immediately captures both LeAnne and Doctor Whitney Montgomery's attention. Worse, he also brings a beautiful woman. \\"Villain\\" Egan Tate accompanies Snake on a mission to protect Virginia from her former boyfriend who happens to be a big league gang leader. <br />Unfortunately, within twenty-four hours, Virginia is found murdered in a style reminiscent of the murder of Snake's wife. Suspicion immediately falls to Tate who does not have an alibi. Extraordinary sexual chemistry leads to an unexpected relationship between Whitney and Tate, and she eventually provides him with an alibi. That lie, even when it becomes truth, will lead to passion and gristly danger beyond her imagining.<br />Readers of KISS OF DECEIT were aghast when author Patricia Rasey daringly broke all romantic conventions, allowing her hero to ride into the sunset without his heroine. Such a break of convention marks Raseys work, as she imbues her text with the harsh realities and subtle nuances that make her novels dazzle fans time and again. The fast paced EYES OF BETRAYAL continues to keep fans guessing as to the identity of a vicious murderer, echoing the unsolved killing of Snakes wife from KISS OF DECEIT. With surgeon like precision, Rasey cuts to the heart of human motivation, revealing the striking similarities of seemingly totally disparate characters. Each scene springs vividly to life, living in the imagination long beyond when the last page is turned. Indeed, like the man she attributes to inspiring Villain, author Rasey writes with style and class. Fans just cannot get enough of her bad boy heroes and will be eagerly awaiting her next novel. EYES OF BETRAYAL earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2003-04-20
1154052:US	49693975	RLGIDHIIVFNLP	0373711220	441054275	Casey's Gamble: Raising Cane, Book 1 (Harlequin Superromance, No 1122)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Terrific debut to an exciting new trilogy	When Duke and Angelique Fontaine leave for a second honeymoon, they turn sugar plantation Bellafontaine over to their son Jackson and daughter Cassandra. Almost immediately following their departure, however, disaster strikes when a kitchen fire threatens the lives of family members. Evidence suggest arson. Coincidentally, when Casey phones her brother to tell him of the fire, he is only minutes away with friend Nick Devlin.<br />Nick arrives in Louisiana to get his former riverboat casino ready for the grand opening. A rake, a rambler, and a gambling man, Nick certainly does not fit the type of man Casey needs in her life, as her family so quickly points out. But lurking physical danger as well as danger to the heart continues to provide opportunity for the chemistry Casey and Nick share to rage out of control. <br />Eve Gaddy's CASEY'S GAMBLE begins the exciting new trilogy Raising Cane, to be followed by THE SECRET DAUGHTER by Roz Denny Fox in May and JACKSON'S GIRL'S by K.N. Casper in June. Once again Gaddy demonstrates an amazing ability to weave complex characterizations and passion into an enthralling tale readers will find impossible to put down. Once burned, now twice-shy Casey will only win her heart's desire if she can apply the same determination she has to successfully run Bellafontaine to her love life. Nick likewise faces tremendous challenges and risks if he is to find the way to his well deserved happily-ever-after. With a rich secondary cast that provide humor and surprising twists, CASEY'S GAMBLE is a must read, coming highly recommended.	2003-04-18
1154597:US	49693975	R3D8LAG2D5Q7L6	0060001453	686738756	Love With the Proper Husband	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Marvelous regency -- Very highly recommended	A lawyer's foolish mistake leaves Gwendolyn Townsend penniless. Resourceful and determined, she accepts work as governess, but her positions are short lived when employers attempt to force her into their beds. While working in America, Gwen receives a ticket back to London from her lawyer, which she gratefully accepts. It seems that her father's will did leave her modest living, and quite a bit more if she accepts her father's choice of a husband. Her father's wishes were for her to marry the Earl of Pennington. But it is Gwen's new obligation to her three orphaned nieces that seals her decision to marry.<br />Marcus Hocroft, the Earl of Pennington, has sought a bride for years. But his desire for intelligence in addition to an attractive appearance seems to have made his quest impossible. Then, three months before his thirtieth birthday, Marcus learns of his father's will, dictating that he marry Gwendolyn Townsend if he has not previously chosen a bride by his birthday. He assumes he will have a marriage of convince until he meets Gwen and passion flairs. But passion is not enough when there is trust to be built.<br />With quixotic flair, author Victoria Alexander pens a must read regency in LOVE WITH THE PROPER HUSBAND. Irreverent humor, unexpected levity and sparkling wit all find voice from fresh characterizations and subtly unexpected plotting. Gwen and Marcus, as well as marvelous cast of secondary characters, are filled with the joys and foibles that brings each characterization vividly alive. Matchmaking, fiery independence and necessity combine in this amusing read. Guaranteed to win the reader's heart, LOVE WITH THE PROPER HUSBAND comes very highly recommended.	2003-04-18
1162075:US	49693975	R1ZO9IAHBG8Q6Q	0373711212	670778180	Small-Town Girl (Harlequin Superromance No. 1121)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A slice of real life -- Highly recommended	When their son nearly dies in a car accident, Julie and Russell Mathew suddenly shift priorities, centering their lives on their son. Their son Ben spends a month in a coma and more months in recovery. Gradually, their conversations seem to center only on the immediate challenges. Then the problems they've ignored or denied for years smolder into life when Russell announces he has quit his job as a professor in Vancouver so they can move to the tiny rural town in Saskatchewan where he grew up.<br />Angry and resentful that Russell makes such life altering decisions without discussing it with her first, Julie resigns herself to the move. She thrives on big city life, her quickly advancing career, and the amenities available in Vancouver. She does not look forward to the small, ordinary house they will live in or her nearby in-laws. But Ben's enthusiasm encourages her to give the move a try. Unfortunately, Russell's former girlfriend teaches at the school where Russell will teach, and suddenly Julie faces challenges and surprises she never expected.<br />Author C.J. Carmichael has a gift for capturing the heart of the challenges of life that bring her characters vividly alive. As readers know, love doesn't suddenly get perfect at the altar, despite the idealism of fiction. Romance authors are catching on, however, as Carmichael so gracefully demonstrates. Julie and Russell certainly learn that, if even if they have been together for years, secrets of the past, mistakes of the present, and personal insecurities have a way of presenting surprisingly new challenges. Secondary characters are likewise believable, especially Julie's mother-in-law who never quite stopped wishing for a different sort of wife for her beloved son. Despite these characters flaws, however, the people of Saltspring are beautifully realized, charmingly flawed, and spring vividly to life. Readers will certainly hope that Carmichael has many more books planned for this rural Saskatchewan town and thedelightful characters that dwell there. SMALL-TOWN GIRL comes highly recommended.	2003-04-11
1162297:US	49693975	R2MNWJM1KW5JMU	0373790880	479139375	Pleasure for Pleasure (Harlequin Blaze, No 84)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Recommended	Following in the steps of Josie Marcus' mother would intimidate the most daring of souls. Certainly demure Josie finds it difficult to continue her mother's outrageous classes at the Lovers for Life Center when her sexual history would fit the back of a postcard. Certainly a background in marital counseling has not prepared her for lecturing on sex. When a long time attendee observes Josie's professional reputation hinges on her having a frisky love life, Josie realizes that she must take action. Then a voice from her past offers the perfect solution while exchanging pleasure for pleasure.<br />Trent O'Reilly owns the building housing the Lovers for Life Center as well as the extreme sports shop next door. With two months rent in arrears, Trent heads next door to collect personally. His shared history with Josie had deterred him much to long, and now its time to collect. But seeing Josie again for the first time in three years makes Trent want to collect more than just rent. He would like a bit of retribution for her dumping him on the beach three years ago without his boxers. So in exchange for private sex lessons, he offers to waive six grand in back rent payments. Little does Trent realize the ramifications of such an agreement.<br />Author Jamie Sobrato pens a scorching romance in PLEASURE FOR PLEASURE. As Josie and Trent learn to gain and relinquish control, they discover an erotic path of pleasure that leads to love. Josie is a fascinating mix of sassy and demure in her determination to never be like her mother, and yet enters an unorthodox agreement of exchanging personal sex lessons for rent. This troubling agreement will bother readers who perceive this exchange as prostitution, but taken with the spirit of the novel, savvy readers will understand Josie's choice as a powerful choice to take control of her past and her future. PLEASURE FOR PLEASURE comes recommended.	2003-04-11
1162715:US	49693975	R10WE8WK4EAMJV	0373691211	537648053	Drive Me Wild  (Heat)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	After ten years of college, Alec Masterson is working on his fifth choice of a major and paying the bills by working as chauffer. Little does he suspect that his favorite client, Molly Drake, has him starring both in her fantasies and in her latest novel. Then Alec's actions as a Good Samaritan result in his being late to pick Molly up for an extremely important train ride into the city. Consequently, he offers to drive her from her home in Connecticut to her appointment in New York City. Anticipating good news regarding her latest literary venture, Molly says she hopes they will have something to celebrate on the way home.<br />A successful career ghostwriting cozy mysteries has Molly longing to have her own name on a book spine. Shifting genres, Molly pens a sensual romance. Unfortunately, her editor rejects her effort, suggesting she needs to get beyond her contrived and stilted sex scenes. Stunned and more than a little disappointed, Molly decides she needs practical experience. Soon Alec offers to help her \\"research\\" and they begin what believe to be a fling. It does not take long for them to drive each other wild!<br />Once again Vicki Lewis Thompson pens an absolutely sizzling romance in DRIVE ME WILD. Thompson's gift for bringing together opposites who refuse to compromise their intrinsic identities allows her characters to embrace their differences and revel in their individuality in a story where everyone wins. Moreover, Thompson breaks new ground as Molly and Alec daringly indulge their wildest fantasies, which could easily result in her fans rushing to the local video camera department. Indeed, Molly and Alec's naughty escapades will certainly inspire the most jaded of readers! This amusing romantic romp is filled with sensuality and sexuality while still providing a marvelous plot that really keeps the pages turning. DRIVE ME WILD earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2003-04-11
1163374:US	49693975	R23UIVLPYJQMIR	0373272855	60313026	All A Man Can Be  (Trouble in Eden)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	More trouble in Eden -- Highly recommended	From first glance, Mark DeLucca knows that his new boss, Nicole Reed, is high maintenance. A bartender, Mark thinks of her as a Chardonnay kind of lady and does not expect her to fit at the Blue Moon. Mark would have bought the bar himself if he could have secured the financing, so creating high brow ambiance and serving exotic sandwiches certainly does not please him. But word of a child he did not know he fathered six years ago forces Mark to reexamine his priorities. This certainly does not look like the time for a career change. <br />With seed money secured from a romance and career gone wrong, Nicole buys the Blue Moon bar hoping to start over. With a history of unhealthy relationships, Nicole brings a wealth of textbook knowledge but a lack of trust in her own instincts where Mark is concerned. Mark fits the classic and dangerous bad boy image, yet Nicole cannot resist his unexpected appeal. Especially when a miscommunication brings her to his door and a charming six-year-old opens it. Mark needs Nicole's help if he wants to keep his job and gain custody of his son. But that leaves Nicole questioning his motives as well as her own. <br />Author Virginia Kanta's gift for powerful characterization sparkles in ALL A MAN CAN BE. As this troubled hero and heroine come together, their differences seem impossible to bridge until a delightful six-year-old shakes their world. Both Nicole and Mark display vulnerabilities and strengths that make them sympathetic and believable. Indeed, ALL A MAN CAN BE skillfully combines emotional depth and heart-stopping sexual tension in marvelous read. ALL A MAN CAN BE comes highly recommended.	2003-04-10
1164886:US	49693975	R1GCIKFVSP0YHJ	0373691246	237452942	Red - Hot & Reckless  (The Bad Girls Club)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Bad girls never apologize for their wild antics either in bed or out. Nicole Bennett carries her bad girl reputation to the extreme, however, with her career as a professional jewel thief. Her weakness for tall, sexy men and for Tiffany jewelry has gotten her into several scrapes over the years; nevertheless, she has never regretted her perchance for either. But someone has been following her, and Nicole has best watch or trouble will catch up to her.<br />Insurance investigator Alex Cassevetis has suspected that Nicole lifts other thieves' goods since Christine Bowman was caught stealing millions of dollars in uncut diamonds. While Christine was convicted, the diamonds disappeared. Now Alex intends to persuade Nicole to help him apprehend \\"Dark Man,\\" a thief turned serial killer. But working with Nicole proves disconcerting when he knows there can be no future for their electric attraction.<br />RED HOT & RECKLESS is the best Tori Carrington offering yet! Carrington takes \\"bad girl\\" to an all-new level, with a heroine who never apologizes for her unorthodox career. Wild, tempting and daring, Nicole takes what she wants and lives as a truly free spirit. Overly responsible Alex finds that wildness incredibly alluring, but he is also an irresistibly sexy hero. Indeed, readers will wonder how much of his Greek mystique is inspirited from the male side of the fabulous writing duo of Lori and Tony Karayianni. And perhaps it is the dynamic of a male/female writing team that allows both hero and heroine to consistently sparkle in all of their novels, and most especially in the sizzling RED HOT & RECKLESS. Moreover, the strong heroines in \\"The Bad Girls Club\\" series will certainly have readers clamoring for more bad girl stories. RED HOT & RECKLESS earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2003-04-09
1166159:US	49693975	R2ROU23VAFY34R	1591132207	373665795	Chance Place	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	It was the early seventies when Nathan Waite finds himself in a Princeton dorm, the sound of Roberta Flack's music taunting his memories of making love with Cheryl and her pleas that he find help. He sees his handwriting on notes he has been studying for a test, but does not remember writing the words. As the cacophony of his growing illness crowds him mind, it results in chaos, and leads to Nathan's confinement to the mental health system. <br />At fourteen, Frenchy Bibideaux flees his alcoholic and violent home life for the streets. Chance brings an offer of a ride from a stranger. Despite his mother's warnings about riding with strangers, Frenchy climbs in the warm car to ride home with Peso. Clothes, money, fantasies are all lavished the boy. He enrolls in a Catholic school and lives a luxurious life. But when he turns sixteen, Peso seeks payment. Life continues to spiral out of control until French wrongly lands in a halfway home for the mentally ill in Minneapolis. <br />Desperate for companionship, Frenchy befriends Nathan. Nathan's family has suffered financial and emotional devastation from his illness, remanding him to the halfway house out of necessity. Both men struggle with an incomprehensible mental health system. Eventually, Frenchy's sexual confusion results in a terrible affront to Nathan. Their alienation finds unexpected healing, however, when Frenchy compromises everything for the one chance to save Nathan from a mental health system gone awry.<br />Author Frankie Schelly pens a stunning novel with CHANCE PLACE. With compassionate humor, poignant opportunities and unexpected joy, CHANCE PLACE finds powerful redemption. As the child of a schizophrenic mother, I am very critical of the presentation of the mentally ill in fiction and fantastically pleased with Schelly's presentation of this difficult topic. Schelly's understanding of mental illness and the sensitivity she displays reveals her own battle with schizophrenia in her son, and her awareness of the human face the illness attempts to mask. A poignant tale that weaves the disparate elements of friendship, betrayal and forgiveness into a fascinating narrative, CHANCE PLACE earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2003-04-08
1166747:US	49693975	R3JR2AV21127H5	1588985008	535965189	Twisted Roads	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A timely and deeply philosophical book -- Recommended	Written in four parts, TWISTED ROADS details the kidnapping of seven-year-old Katrina and the ramifications of that crime. Sexual predator Roy Thornquist was recently released from a mental hospital before kidnapping Katrina as she leaves her school bus. Shockingly, two hospital psychologists had pronounced Thornquist rehabilitated. The combined efforts of the local police and the State Police and the Canadian police track Thornquist result in his capture.<br />Previously, Thornquist had been suspected in a sixteen-year-old kidnapping case in which the child's body was never found. In the second section of TWISTED ROADS, the victim of the sixteen-year-old crime is at last discovered. Her family struggles with reconciling themselves to the finality of the discovery of their child's body. In the third section, a millionaire forms the vigilante group Warmstorm to rid the world of sexual predators like Thornquist. The forth section proves the horrible consequences of vigilantism.<br />The four sections of TWISTED ROADS read much like four loosely linked short stories. Unfortunately, TWISTED ROADS falls victim to the flaws of self-publishing, even as it offers powerful food for thought. Ordinarily I do not mention formatting or other technical concerns with a book in my reviews because they do not reflect specifically on the author's writing ability. However, with this self-published novel the uneven margins with an inch and a half at the top of each page is a bit disconcerting, leaving the reader feeling as though the presentation was orchestrated to falsely present a longer book. In addition, unconventional editing choices, such as the use of parenthesis or dashes, may be distracting to readers. <br />Specifically addressing the content of the novel, the author would have benefited from a writing critique group that focused on \\"show don't tell\\" when creating characters and motivation. Much of the book is a series of long paragraphs that describe the events and people,with the unfortunately result of flat characterizations and a lack of tension. Nevertheless, the author presents a timely and deeply philosophical book that examines the conundrums of vigilantism and the flaws of its use. An interesting read, TWISTED ROADS comes recommended.	2003-04-08
1170352:US	49693975	R2SJMJ0CIBI1V9	0446610852	581545043	The Kissing Game	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Lively romance! Highly recommended	When he first came into earldom by way of a complicated chain of inheritances and deaths, Oxie Nesbit took his family to London. Years of gentile poverty little prepared the Nesbit family for living in the lap of luxury. Worse, the plain spoken Oxie played pranks on too many members of the ton, making the trip a fiasco. With his daughter Allegra rapidly approaching nineteen, Oxie decides to return to London to find his daughter a husband. While Allegra had believed the trip to be a joke, the joke is on her when Oxie excorts his family to London.<br />Armand Gauthier keeps dark secrets that engender speculation as to the source of his wealth and parentage. With a Viscount's introduction, Armand comfortably escoungaged himself into Society, and after meeting Allegra, decides to perform the same favor for her. With no invitations on her family's mantel, Allegra must accept the invitation to Armand's ball. Moreover, Allegra cannot resist prying to Armand's secrets even as her father continues to make memebers of the ton rue the day he arrived in town.<br />Author Kasey Michaels lends irrepressible humor to THE KISSING GAME. Prankster Oxie lends the novel an original freshness with his outrageous antics. Allegra and Armand suit one another wonderfully with their shared need to escape the demands of Society. Allegra's forthright speech and practical view of her father will delight readers even as Armand will leave them intrigued by his dark secrets. A lovely, light read that captures the spirit of the era with flair, THE KISSING GAME comes highly recommended.	2003-04-04
1170799:US	49693975	R3KA4WAX7IVUYV	0446612308	217462449	Like a Knife	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Powerful romantic suspense -- Highly recommended	Memories of witnessing her mother's death have always remained at the edge of Rachel Goodman's consciousness. She devotes her life to helping children who have survived similar circumstances, running a school for children who have been victims of violence. With only six weeks left on the rental space for the school, Rachel desperately seeks new funding. She certainly needs to avoid adverse publicity, but it unfortunately finds her.<br />Nick Raine left designer suits behind six years ago, embracing an austere life that led to his maintenance work at the school. Then his old boss demands that Nick return to his former life and find a missing child. Suddenly Nick is thrust back into a nightmarish world where he discovers the missing child his own, and where men will do anything to maintain power and money, including destroying innocents like Rachel.<br />Author Annie Solomon pens a stunning debut with LIKE A KNIFE. Crisp prose, sharp characterizations and a fast-paced plotting provide a combination impossible to put down. Nick Raine proves to be an intriguing hero with a deadly, dark past that haunts his every step. Rachel's background is equally painful, but gives her character power as she resourcefully deals with virtually impossible circumstances. Solomon does not pull any punches, with harsh realities and cruelties, thereby lending the novel a hard, believable edge. Readers will eagerly await more from this promising author. LIKE A KNIFE comes highly recommended.	2003-04-04
1172514:US	49693975	RM6F7HPOXOR0M	0373711190	546579276	Kelton's Rules: You, Me & the Kids (Harlequin Superromance No. 1119)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A lively read! Highly recommended	A lively read! Highly recommended<br />Getting lost on the way to Sedona only makes young Skyer Lake's pleas to return to their previous life in New Jersey that much louder. With the vast wisdom of a ten-year-old, Skyler still hopes for a reconciliation between his pilot father and free spirited mother Abby, despite his father's new wife and expected twins. In the midst of Divorce Crazies, Abby plans to build an adobe and a new life in Sedona until life takes an unexpected detour. Thanks to Skyler's meddling, the ensuing damage to their van guarantees time in Trueheart, Colorado living next door to their rescuer, Jack Kelton and his young daughter Kat.<br />In the small town of Trueheart, Jack cannot seem to find a babysitter capable of keeping his mischievous daughter in hand. Kat's pranks are legendary, with her singed eyebrows only demonstrating proof of her imaginative troublemaking. Her new friendship with Skyler threatens disaster, however, when Skyler objects to their parents' possible romance. Besides, with Kelton believing it is unwise to get involved with a woman suffering from Divorce Crazies, and Abby believing a woman must stand alone, romance does not seem probable. But then, the community of Trueheart has already demonstrated its perchance for bringing together the unlikely.<br />In the fifth story of the Trueheart series, author Peggy Nicholson pens an irresistible look at love and family in KELTON'S RULES. This lively romance combines the best of the Divorce Crazies, determined children, and far-reaching passions. Cat and Skyler playfully demonstrate the best and worst of imaginative children with realistic displays of emotion and disappointment that will delight readers even as they touch reader's hearts. Women who have experienced a divorce will certainly recognize the symptoms of Divorce crazies from the irrepressible urge to create a new life to the need to prove oneself whole without a man. Jack proves to be just the man to rock Abby's world even as it does not take long for him to acknowledge that life does not necessarily follow his plans where his heart rules. A wonderfully realistic, delightfully playful read, KELTON'S RULES comes highly recommended.	2003-04-02
1179521:US	49693975	R37RKNMTVNKIXO	0373691203	645117880	Brazen & Burning  (Bad Girls Club)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Searing! Very highly recommended	When Sydney \\"Slow Burn\\" Colburn reaches her lifetime goal of debuting at the number one slot of the New York Times best sellers, she is left wondering, \\"now what?\\" Now what indeed. After all, she loves her career, she has money, and her love life is varied and remarkable. Yet something seems to be missing. So she sets out to find Adam Brody, the sexy man to whom she refused to risk her heart. She is ready to explore possibilities. She is not ready to discover that Adam has amnesia, and does not remember her.<BR>Previously, Sydney has studiously followed her self-imposed rules that protect her heart. Sex is fun and frivolous, never emotional. She never spends the night or talks of allowing a relationship to evolve to the next level. And under no circumstances does she give her heart. Adam was the only man she ever came close to breaking her rules with, and she reacted by departing quickly. When she returned from a book tour, he had disappeared, his condo sold, his business gone. Once she finds him, Sydney is determined to either remind him of what is forgotten, or to create new memories. <BR>Author Julie Elizabeth Leto sears the pages in this second offering of the series The Bad Girls Club. With a searing heat and dazzling characterization, BRAZEN & BURNING easily lives up to its title. Sydney revels in her sexuality, never apologizing for her varied and remarkable past nor regretting it. Adam's amnesia affords her the opportunity to discover if she can capture his heart even as she maintains her bad girl ways. Indeed, their memorable encounter of making love under the sprinklers will live in the reader's imagination! Once again Leto demonstrates her remarkable style as she combines the thrill of exhibitionism and the tantalizing possibilities of a sizzling plot. Daring, sexy, and fabulous, BRAZEN & BURNING comes very highly recommended.	2003-03-27
1182165:US	49693975	RPFYRUTIC4VTS	0373169639	351264686	Sweeping the Bride Away (Harlequin American Romance, No 963)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Recommended	With a failed romance behind her, Cassidy Clayton accepts a proposal from the boy next door. Unfortunately, with her prospective mother-in-law Lillian also next door, tensions increase as Lillian insists on making all the wedding arrangements in the guise of \\"helping\\". Even looking like an overstuffed marshmallow in the wedding dress Lillian selects does not convince Cassidy to speak up for herself. When the city inspector comes two weeks before she closes on the sale of her house, Lillian's interference leads to four pages of repairs and a desperate search for a contractor who can do the work.<br />Waiting for her best friend at a local watering hole, Cassidy meets Blade Frederick. With his casual bad boy look, she never suspects that he owns the bar or a million-dollar construction business. She accepts his business card and, when she cannot find anyone else to handle the work on her house, calls him out of desperation. Even though Blade's company does not do residential work; he is more than willing to help out. But Blade continues to present himself as blue-collar worker. After all, he does not believe a man like himself deserves a woman like Cassidy.<br />Author Michele Dunaway presents considerable emotional entanglements in SWEEPING THE BRIDE AWAY. Cassidy grouses about her future mother-in-law but still manages to comply with Lillian's unreasonable demands. She knows she is settling with Lillian's son, yet cannot bring herself to act. Moreover, Blade goes along with his partner's nebulous plan to use Cassidy's political connections for his own purposes. The unfortunate result is that SWEEPING THE BRIDE AWAY lacks the flow and polish that usually characterizes Dunaway's work. By the time Cassidy finally takes control of her life, readers may have already grown too impatient to care. Nevertheless, there are classic Dunaway moments that truly sparkle, as when Cassidy finds herself rained in at Boy Scout camp. SWEEPING THE BRIDE AWAY comes recommended.	2003-03-25
1185488:US	49693975	RIWEZ8CMF7CMQ	0373711174	410364211	Hidden Treasures (Harlequin Superromance No. 1117)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A bit of lighthearted fluff - Recommended	Wannabe earth mother Erica Leitner forsakes her Harvard background for peaceful Rockwell, New Hampshire. She has traded the big city for gardening and baking, and if her skills are a bit limited, that does not dampen her enthusiasm. But then, Erica has never seen zucchini take over a garden before, either. While planting said zucchini in precise rows six inches apart, she and her eleven-year-old helper Randy, who works for cookies that are preferably store bought, discover a hidden treasure. Someone buried a wooden box in her garden. When Erica cannot open the box, she invites a former professor from Harvard who specializes in antiques to have a look. The discovery sets the small town on fire. <br />Jed Willetz returns to his hometown only to dispose of grandfather's ashes, planning a quick departure. When he stops at one of the town's eight bars to track down his father, Jed overhears news of the big discovery in Erica's backyard. Interested because it was his grandfather who sold Erica the property, Jed decides to investigate. Soon Randy's father hires a lawyer to insure his son's share, and tensions escalate. Jed finds himself defending Erica's claim even as media feeds the frenzy as t-shirts are printed, souvenirs planned as, of course, the grand opening of the box is anticipated.<br />Author Judith Arnold admits to playing a delightful \\"what if\\" game with HIDDEN TREASURES. The small town of Rockwell springs to life with a varied and eccentric cast of characters. With eight bars, one on every corner, gossip spreads quickly! Erica's charming belief that she can learn baking and gardening from a book leads to wonderful touches of humor. While remaining on the slightly silly side, HIDDEN TREASURES provides a delightful escape from reality that readers will truly enjoy. Recommended.	2003-03-21
1185818:US	49693975	R2S0XLEIQ578YL	0373711182	434153013	The Ballad of Dixon Bell: At the Carolina Diner (Harlequin Superromance No. 1118)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Lyrical and poetic -- Highly recommended	Lovely Kate Bowdrey never really noticed the quiet, unassuming boy in high school. Nor did she suspect Dixon Bell's depth of emotion. So when he quietly disappeared from the small town of New Skye, North Carolina, Kate did not really notice. Dixon returns years later for the girl he left behind when he learns of her divorce from J.T. Larue. Kate had adopted J.T.'s son and daughter, loving them as her own. J.T. seemed to have no compunction about leaving his family to go live with a sexy bimbo.<br />Divorces are not final for a year after separation in North Carolina, and Kate has no intentions of dating again. But Dixon's quiet perusal awakens needs and desires she has almost forgotten. Too bad living in a small town means living under a microscope of gossip and innuendo. Worse, real estate developer J.T. has set sight on Dixon's ancestral home Magnolia House as the sight of his next project, and will stop at nothing to take the property or bring trouble to Dixon those people he cares for. <br />Author Lynnette Kent pens a richly lyrical novel in THE BALLAD OF DIXON BELL. This second novel in the At the Carolina Diner series continues savoring the ambiance of a small town, even as a family finds healing and love finds a second chance. Kate struggles with family obligations and the scrutiny of a small town while Dixon gently courts her heart. Readers might recall her son's prank of setting of fireworks in public in the previous novel, and will chuckle at his return. But teens are not ideal characters and seem to find a way to land themselves in a passel of trouble as they struggle with relationships and growing up. Kent handles racial challenges with grace and power, lending the secondary plot unexpected punch. In additon, Miss Daisy, Dixon's grandmother, adds lovely sparkling energy with her part-I want a grandmother like her. A memorable read, THE BALLAD OF DIXON BELL comes highly recommended.	2003-03-21
1186824:US	49693975	REBIYYL3GD1JP	0373790821	121389863	Scoring: Under the Covers (Harlequin Blaze, No 78)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	It's a home run! -- Very highly recommended	Baseball was Mace Duval's life until a big rig crossed the centerline and permanently ended his career. When his closest friend hustles him in a game of pool, Mace finds himself accepting a position as a roving instructor, going from shortstop for the Braves to batting instructor for the Lowell Weavers minor league baseball team. He brings with him a reputation for stunning hitting on and off the field. According to the media, when Mace was not hitting homeruns on the field, he was escorting actresses and models to star studded benefits and premieres, not to mention his bed. <br />Becka Landon has been around locker rooms most of her life, and does not take the sight of testosterone-laden, naked men seriously. The players call her Attila behind her back, and Florence Nightingale to her face as she happily replaces the team's sports trainer while he is out with carpal tunnel. Keeping her spot with the team is a long shot, and she refuses to waste her time with a sexy hitter who will only be around for a week. But despite her intentions, Becka's body desires Mace, and he knows it. Her sassy belligerence challenges him to give both the coaching and the woman a try. Perhaps another bet, one that will land her in his bed, will have them both scoring a homer. <br />Author Kristin Hardy's gift for creating an engaging tale, by turns romantic and gritty, absolutely sparkles in SCORING. Perhaps better named scorching, SCORING overlays a strong character driven plot with enticingly steamy sensual encounters and red-hot lust. Women see Mace has a hot player; little recognizing that much of his reputation is the result of the media madness that surrounds athletes on the arms of stars. Becka is a sassy, tomboyish, woman with an extraordinary ability to handle every player except Mace with great finesse. Despite her verbal protestations, Becka's profound attraction to Mace is visibly apparent to them both. Unfortunately, she falls into the trap of judging Mace by his reputation,adding a bittersweet dynamicism to their exchanges throughout the novel. Secondary characters likewise sizzle, including the Mallory Carson. Add SCORING to your keeper shelf, as Hardy scores a homerun with this enticingly sensual romance! SCORING comes very highly recommended.	2003-03-20
1187546:US	49693975	R3JB3ZVUGF33S6	0373691149	788289308	Tangling With Ty (Harlequin Temptation)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Another keeper! -- Very highly recommended	Dr. Nicole Mann was a child prodigy, graduating college at the age of twelve. Surgery is her life, masking her inept people skills. With myriad piercings and sporting camouflage, Nicole's appearance certainly masks her IQ and profession. Her growing friendship with housemates Suzanne and Taylor creates friction as she tries to learn to let others close, buts it's her overwhelming attraction to Ty that really disconcerts, especially since she echoes Taylor's vow to remain single.<br />Architect Ty O'Grady's dark history precludes attachments and family. A world traveler accustomed to fulfilling his wanderlust, Ty fell in love with South Village where he builds a strong professional reputation working alone rather than joining the usual architectural firms. Then his strong attraction to Nicole and a shocking email open doors that Ty is ill equipped to handle. <br />Author Jill Shalvis has a created a marvelous hit with the South Village Singles series! Readers who enjoyed ROUGHING IT WITH RYAN certainly will not want to miss its dazzling sequel, TANGLING WITH TY. Both Nicole and Ty are incredibly intriguing characters. They are tough survivors, unable and unwilling to allow people close. Nicole's piercings and Ty's tattoo both represent badges of honor for surviving nearly impossible challenges with grace. Indeed, their mutual strength of character draws them together even as it keeps them divided, thereby providing paradoxical challenges that force them to face inward demons and needs. Be sure to catch next month's finale with MESSING WITH MAC. TANGLING WITH TY comes very highly recommended.	2003-03-20
1188651:US	49693975	R1SPWGIYR6M3ZN	0451207955	828688477	Serpent's Dance	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Absolutely stunning! Very highly recommended	When her sister's death is reported as suicide, Bernadette \\"Bernie\\" Kane does not believe it. Peggy would not have leapt from a sixth floor hotel window over a broken love affair. Although her sister's life had been through into upheaval over the discovery of her unfaithfulness, Peggy seemed happy enough over the looming divorce and affair with computer CEO Wesley.<br />Bernie enlists the aid of long time friend Eric Killen to locate the illusive Wesley, intending to prove his link to Peggy's death. Eric's research leads them to Wesley Edwards of Oar Research in Scottsdale, Arizona. Bernie cleverly arranges employment as a contractor, and engages a game meant to exact vengeance. Soon, however, Bernie finds herself caught in a maze of deception, secrets, and blood lust.<br />Author Larry Brooks pens an addictive suspense with SERPENT'S DANCE that readers will find mesmerizing. Seductive vengeance turns deadly when complex contradictions trap key players. Despite her resourcefulness, Bernie is ill prepared for secrets that go beyond her imagination. Wesley presents an enigmatic profile that at one baffles readers even while drawing them in. The sexual players known as Damian and Diana provide evocative, dangerous imagery and almost incomprehensible madness in a world where the serpent's dance is everything. An intriguing read filled with crisp prose detailing a dark and dangerous world, SERPENT'S DANCE comes very highly recommended.	2003-03-19
1192827:US	49693975	R3O9A8CEV07XVF	0425189066	231511699	Living Proof	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Spectacular debut offering! Highly recommended	Ramon Willis bravely accepts his fate as he goes to his execution. An innocent man, Ramon soon discovers that his supposed death leads to a horrifying secret. He has become part of a military run experiment, and he is expendable. While Ramon survives a test injection longer than any of the other subjects, three weeks is sufficient to order his termination. Fortunately, a soldier with a conscience comes to his rescue, giving him life to allow the truth to surface.<br />Now Ramon is on the run, depending on journalist Lena Dryer to help. She had been writing an expose on Texas executions, and witnessed Ramon's death. His sudden reappearance offers her a chance at headlines and prestige-if she can live long enough to make the dream come true. Together they must stay alive long enough to find someone who will believe their improbable story.<br />Author Peter J. Thompson provides a plausible, horrifying look at possibilities in this debut offering. With a plot that could have been torn from newspaper headlines, Thompson combines biological warfare, conspiracy theory and medical experiments in this suspenseful thriller that readers will find impossible to put down. Ramon has a history of petty, though not violent, crime, rescuing his character from the usual absolute innocence. Lena thinks of headlines before any other priorities, resulting in unexpected tragedy. While flawed people, together Ramon and Lena make a memorable team. Although some of the plot may be a bit predictable, it is written with sufficient punch to keep the reader glued to the pages. Strikingly rendered and thoughtful executed, LIVING PROOF comes highly recommended.	2003-03-15
1194565:US	49693975	RVDYQWP9OP151	0373790783	822727335	The Diva Diaries (Harlequin Blaze, No 74)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Naughty diaries and erotic jewelery! Highly recommended	As she lies dying, Jenna Sinclair's grandmother asks that her lost diary and erotic jewelry be reclaimed. Her grandmother had sought passion in the arms of many men, and explains that for the diary to surface now would cause harm to important families. Jenna has possession of one of the diaries, and the other lies concealed in a desk that had been sold to rancher Sam Winchester. <br />Little does Jenna suspect her own unawakened passion. She pours her gifts into her music, having become a concert violinist. So Jenna arranges to help in Sam's fund raising project for a local hospital in return for experiencing ranching first hand for two weeks. She does not dare risk Sam discovering her true reasons for being at his ranch. But from their first encounter, Jenna's desires become a powerful motivation to discover far more than the hidden diary. <br />Author Karen Anders pens a sensual treat with THE DIVA DIARIES. The glimpses into the diaries are sensual and intriguing, providing a powerful backdrop to newly awakened passion. Jenna's journey of self-discovery contrasts sharply with Sam's disillusionment, proving they both have a lot to learn about themselves, each other, and love. The resulting tale proves Anders's gift for vividly realizing a fun, sensual tale with memorable characters and interesting toys that lend the novel a breathtaking intensity. THE DIVA DIARIES come highly recommended.	2003-03-14
1196885:US	49693975	R3TCXF86HZLN6T	044661209X	97460430	High on a Hill (Missouri, Book 2)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Prohibition, speakeasies and bootlegging	The prohibition brings big business to bootleggers, speakeasies and gangsters. For years Annabel Lee Donovan, daughter of a bootlegger, has endured frequent upheaval and promises that her father will soon leave the business behind. Their latest move brings them to Henderson, Missouri to a house on a hill. Annabel worries over her father's frequent absences, but tries to make their new home comfortable. Her father leaves behind two men to look to her safety and take turns guarding their stash, Boone and Spinner.<br />One day a seriously injured young man appears on her doorstep seeking help. Annabel welcomes Jack Jones, nursing him back to health and earns his loyalty. Jack does not know a family friend, Corbin Appleby, tracks him. A former police chief, Corbin insists that he is not a Fed, but his interest in her father's business and in the illegal activity in the area leaves both Annabel and Boone suspicious. In addition, Annabel has dangerous neighbors to contend with, especially when one decided that she belongs to him.<br />As a new comer to Dorothy Garlock's work, I found her choice of setting, the Prohibition, absolutely fascinating, and her writing delightful. Annabel proves to be a delectable combination of contradictions, raised fairly conservatively by a bootlegging father. Her need for permanent roots proves charming from her acquisition of farm animals to garden planting. As her attraction for Corbin slowly blossoms, suspicion of his motives leaves her questioning his trustworthiness. The Secondary plot proves even more delightful, especially as Boone and Tess almost upstage the romance between the main characters. A beautifully realized old fashioned romance with a emphasis on family ties, HIGH ON THE HILL comes highly recommended.	2003-03-12
1197103:US	49693975	R3QU4E3OHN8BBQ	037369119X	957670237	Revealed  (Heat)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Bold and hot! Very highly recommended	When her bodacious rendition of Happy Birthday reveals more than she intends, Jackie Brady carries the situation with aplomb. While Zing-O-Gram had intended a stripper entertain the bar crowd, they were not disappointed. But Greg De Costa instinctively covers her with a tablecloth, realizing that the impromptu strip tease was not Jackie's intention.<br />Unfortunately, their chance encounter throws shadows on Jackie's motivations when her demo tape lands on Greg's desk. As the general manager of Station WBCI, he needs new talent to do voice-overs. But their sizzling encounter precludes a professional relationship. When he makes his reservations clear, Jackie declares it also precludes a personal one.<br />At odds, they agree to part ways, only to be brought together unexpectedly by one of Greg's clients who prefers wild jungle ways to the sedate job Jackie originally applied for. Worse, the client demands that Greg oversee the project. Perhaps it is time for Jackie to find out if the superstition is true that an artist can only achieve her best when she has experienced the ultimate passion.<br />Author Joanne Rock has a gift for sizzling amusement, as she once again vividly displays in REVEALED. Whether dressed in a cat suit or in a leopard bikini, Jackie's determination to succeed never flags. A self made man, Greg knows what it takes to succeed as well, and fills the role with a sophistication that carefully masks his rough beginnings. They both know that Jackie's impulsivity guarantees an impossible relationship, yet their fabulous chemistry draws them together again and again. A quirky, amusing romp, REVEALED comes very highly recommended.	2003-03-12
1203139:US	49693975	R21FFYDVWL40SK	1879194732	819619907	The Bottle Ghosts (Dick Hardesty Mysteries)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	When a new client arrives in his office reporting a missing lover, Dick Hardesty's first reaction is that the guy has taken off for whatever reason. He begins his search by visiting the bars the missing man frequented. Soon Dick learns that police triage missing persons; and they relegate alcoholic, gay men to the bottom of the heap. When he questions his police contacts regarding police procedure with missing person cases, Dick gets unexpected results.<br />Desk rookie Marty Gresham is working on a master's degree in criminology and decides to use his work for his thesis. Gresham went back several years looking at missing persons, and discovered an unexpected pattern. Single men, ages 26 to 40, that were heavy drinkers or acknowledged alcoholics have been disappearing. Indeed, four have disappeared within the last six months. Suddenly Dick once again finds himself confronted with a crime far bigger than his initial investigation; one he cannot walk away from.<br />On the surface, Dick simply investigates yet another series of murders. But the subtext of the gay lifestyle, of relationships and desires, of hidden motives and concealed pain, lends THE BOTTLE GHOSTS remarkable depth. While readers will identify with secret demons, most find help or learn to live with the pain of our individual bottle ghosts. Each scene is carefully crafted with hints and red herrings enough to delight the most demanding mystery lover. Moreover, Grey's prose absolutely resonates with powerful emotion and tragic decisions, with painful need and dangerous desire.<br />THE BOTTLE GHOSTS provides powerful reading on a number of levels. In addition to a terrific mystery, readers are privy to Dick's personal world. As Dick's relationship with Jonathan plays out, readers are given a glimpse at a different side of gay relationships not previously explored by Grey's work. Dick no long allows, well, little dick to run his life although we are still privy to intimate thoughts of lust at times. Instead, Dick explores the world of a monogamous relationship structured by love and trust. Such a transformation does not mirror a heterosexual's expectation, and yet the similarities and differences will be as surprising and as enlightening as Dick's previous sojourns through clubs and baths. Furthermore, Dick has never had first hand experience with alcoholism. Grey's treatment of the subject is remarkably insightful. And it is these remarkable complexes that lend varied layers to this fascinating text. Consequently, THE BOTTLE GHOSTS earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2003-03-07
1206298:US	49693975	RO8U0ON3OLNTH	0373711115	315102738	Sarah's Baby : Koomera Crossing (Harlequin Superromance No. 1111)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Highly recommended	Deep in the Australian outback, Koomera Crossing contains a marvelously diverse population ruled by the iron hand of Ruth McQueen. A ruthless woman who loves only herself and her grandson Kyall, Ruth will let nothing stand in the way of her goals--especially not a fifteen-year-old pregnant girl by the name of Sarah Dempsey. When the girl refuses to have an abortion, Ruth spirits her away, arranging a private adoption and depriving the girl of any moral support from friends and family. When the baby dies, Sarah is devastated. Sarah eventually accepts the financial support Ruth offers, attending a boarding school and later pursuing a degree in medicine. <br />Fifteen years later, Sarah's mother dies, and she returns to Koomera Crossing for the funeral. An old friend who is dying suggests that she take his place as the town's doctor. Sarah refuses to be intimidated, however, by Ruth's threats. She renews her relationship with Kyall, but does not tell him the secrets of the past. But decisions of the past dictate the present, and refuse to remain hidden, casting Sarah and her second chance with Kyall in grave danger.<br />Author Margaret Way's SARAH'S BABY moves with the stately grandeur, sweeping through the Australian outback and exploring a deceptively simple land that conceals unexpected danger. Rich characterizations come alive with treacherous passions and carefully concealed secrets, including a dominating matriarch complete with cruel machinations. The first of a five book series spanning varied product lines, SARAH'S BABY comes highly recommended.	2003-03-05
1209167:US	49693975	R1Z03L1IEVOR2N	0373711123	799930995	Another Man's Wife (Harlequin Superromance No. 1112)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Strong emotional tension--Recommended	Air Force pilot Nate Hawkins cannot help feeling shocked when he sees the widow of his friend Scott Pierce. Her pregnancy certainly post dates the last opportunity Scott could have been home, and the perceived infidelity leaves him outraged. Perhaps his own attraction to the widow also plays into his perceptions as well. But when he learns the circumstances of Laurel's pregnacy, Nate quickly offers his friendship and support.<BR>Laurel had loved her hot shot husband and had hoped this baby would repair the rift between them. Before flying his fatal mission, Scott had certainly been pleased to learn that the fertility treatments were successful. Laurel values Nate's support, but struggles with guilt regarding Scott's memory. Nate likewise struggles to reconcile his feelings with the knowledge that he is in love with ANOTHER MAN'S WIFE, even as Laurel tries to convince him there is room for her husband's memory, and love for him as well.<BR>Author Rebecca Winters pens an absorbing tale in ANOTHER MAN'S WIFE. Nate's harsh judgement of Laurel begins the novel with an element of strong emotional tension that carries the reader through the entire novel as Laurel and Nate struggle with challenging emotional issues. Scott's powerful presence from beyond the grave forces Laurel and Nate to confront the past and the present in equal measure. Unfortunately, Laurel's too understanding position denies the novel the strength and depth that characterizes Winter's best work. Nevertheless, ANOTHER MAN'S WIFE will please her most ardent fans, coming recommended.	2003-03-02
1209998:US	49693975	R2L81UQ9LNOSRC	1590800451	900049424	Unfinished Dreams	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Mesmerizing -- Very highly recommended	Medical bills and caring for his dying father left Gabe Russell facing foreclosure despite his promise to his father to save the family farm. Now he makes a living at repair, side stepping randy widows and dreaming of regaining his birthright with his work on a graduate degree in agricultural science little more than a memory. <br />After two years of struggle and heartache, Tess Graham is ready to start over when she receives a promotion at work and an in for the perfect home. The farmhouse needs repair, however, and she requests help from the local handyman. She does not realize that Gabe suffers from mixed emotions as he works on the place that was his home. Despite the obstacles between them, things begin to heat up until secrets erupt. <br />In a powerful mix of romance, dreams and hope, UNFINISHED DREAMS will capture readers' hearts. Both Tess and Gabe are strong characters, determined to overcome the past and set their own course for the future. Unfortunately, they find themselves at cross-purposes over their respective dreams. Author Pamela Johnson demonstrates a mesmerizing ability to weave a story with fluid grace even as her characters confront difficult choices and circumstances. UNFINISHED DREAMS comes very highly recommended.	2003-03-02
1211883:US	49693975	R1E6S85JLPJWQB	0373272782	328505243	The Phoenix Encounter (Family Secrets) (Silhouette Intimate Moments No.1208)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Powerful drama--Very highly recommended	Twenty-one months ago Robert Davidson barely escaped war-ravaged Rebelia with his life. The subsequent months of rehabilitation provided way too much time to grieve Lily Scott, a passionate journalist that refused to leave the country. As he watched, the pub where he left her was blown to bits, presumably leaving no survivors in its decimated rubble. But when Robert returns to Rebelia on a mission, he finds the woman he left behind alive. Only now she has a baby. <br />Scars from the past motivate Lily to provide the orphans of Rebelia all the help that she can. With a deadly dictator in power, she believes she has the knowledge to take him down. But she never intended for her son or for Robert to become pawns in her deadly game. She tries to conceal the truth of her son's paternity, along with many other secrets, in order to protect Robert. Unfortunately, fate will expose all of her secrets in a deadly game she cannot win alone. <br />Readers will find Linda Castillo's THE PHOENIX ENCOUNTER impossible to put down. This fast paced, complex romance has all the elements for the perfect romantic suspense: powerful characterizations, life threatening danger and fast paced plotting. Resourceful, intelligent and determined, Lily is the kind of woman that survives dangerous situations with grace. She is also believably flawed, attempting to protect those she loves from the dangerous game she plays. Robert initially blinds himself to the obvious, yet his ingenuity protects those he loves. In addition, continuities are surprisingly complex, with threads that must neatly tie to other novels, and can challenge the most seasoned authors. But Linda Castillo handles her part of the series with finesse. THE PHOENIX ENCOUNTER works well as part of the series or as a stand-alone. THE PHOENIX ENCOUNER comes very highly recommended.	2003-02-28
1211907:US	49693975	R32YOIJ24XQ2OD	037371114X	903648037	Child of Their Vows: 9 Months Later (Harlequin Superromance No. 1114)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Powerful emotional drama--Highly recommended	On the day of his thirteenth wedding anniversary Max Walker receives a stunning reminder of the past. He and Kelly had been dating for two years, but his parents discouraged their plans to marry after her graduation from high school. During a forced summer apart, Max became temporarily involved with another girl with unexpectedly permanent results. An unplanned pregnancy ended in adoption, without Max ever seeing his child or telling Kelly. Now he holds a letter from his twelve-year-old son Randall Tipton, who would like to meet his biological father. <br />After four children, all girls, Kelly finds unexpected fulfillment in her new career. While she and Max had planned five children, Kelly struggles to keep up with her demanding career and family and cannot imagine taking on responsibility for another infant at this point in her life. She and Max are going through a rough time with not enough time and too many responsibilities already. So when she learns of a child by anther woman, Kelly moves out, supposedly to care for her grandmother who has an injured ankle. Rediscovering love and finding forgiveness seems nearly impossible for these wounded hearts.<br />Author Joan Kilby pens an impressive story that tackles the challenges of love, career and change in CHILD OF THEIR VOWS. Max and Kelly's story does not follow the usual format of ending at the altar; instead, it begins thirteen years later when these high school sweethearts confront secrets and challenges that shake the very foundation of their commitment. Kelly proves herself to be a vulnerable and flawed heroine, finding forgiveness difficult if not impossible. Max is a typical man, unwilling or unable to discuss his emotions and ignoring problems until they bite him in the [butt]. Yet their shared history, their children, and their love lures them back again and again, as they struggle to redefine their roles and their family. Their daughters sparkle, revealing the wit, angst and joy appropriate to their ages. But it is Max's son Randall who really captures readers' hearts with his need to connect to family and eagerness to please. A powerful, emotional drama, CHILD OF THEIR VOWS comes highly recommended.	2003-02-28
1211934:US	49693975	R2TSJSNZ5P7ZME	0373790767	915583689	A Dash of Temptation: Men to Do (Harlequin Blaze, No 72)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Hot, hot, hot! -Very highly recommended	Tess Norton needs a date to a society gala where she intends to approach an investor so she might make the move from plant lady to the rich and famous to flower shop owner. When her employer Dash overhears her conversation regarding the event, he offers to be Tess' escort for the evening. Suddenly Tess is thrust into the world of the wealthy and powerful, feeling much like Cinderella. While she shares an extraordinary chemistry with Dash, they agree that anything beyond this one night is simply impossible. <br />Dash has never known anything but the privileges of wealth, but seeing his world through Tess' eyes removes the jaded feelings. She makes him feel vibrantly alive and leaves him longing for more than the media king image he has created for the family business. When they yield to the sensual pull between them, both Tess and Dash and stunned by the results. But while Tess knows Dash is certainly a man to do, she also knows he cannot be a man to marry.<br />The second of Men to Do series, A DASH OF TEMPTATION will tempt readers to forget everything else as they loose themselves in this erotic Cinderella story. Rather than ashes, Tess works in dirt, but her sense of humor and lack of pretentiousness provides a refreshing respite for Dash, a man accustomed to starving starlets. Suddenly sex and emotions are impossible to separate, yet Tess simply does not fit Dash's world. The result is a marvelous sensual romance that will make reader's toes curl. A terrific read filled with playfulness and sin; A DASH OF TEMPTATION comes very highly recommended.	2003-02-28
1217268:US	49693975	R18MJEDDFSTN9X	0373711093	443323523	Michael's Father: A Little Secret (Harlequin Superromance No. 1109)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Powerful family dynamics - Recommended	In the midst of the Sonoma County wine country, Cori Messina helps to grow the family business from an early age. Her patriarchal grandfather commands the land and his family with a stern hand. But five years ago when she learned of her pregnancy, she defied him by protecting the father. She chose to be a single mother, raising Michael alone. <br />Cori only returns home now, as her mother lies dying of breast cancer. Her grandfather's gruff words and harsh treatment, however, leave her only wanting to flee again with her son. Blake Austin does not see himself in the child, but he certainly wishes he had been the father. Had Cori admitted his paternity, he would have lost his job and possibly his career. <br />Author Melinda Curtis boldly tackles the painful challenges of rig10hting the past in MICHAEL'S FATHER. While Cori's decisions are understandable, readers may be a bit impati14ent with some of her choices, and even more impatient with her son. Nevertheless, difficult emotional situations are deftly handled with the harshness of reality and the weakness of being human, resulting in a fascinating read. MICHAEL'S FATHER comes recommended.	2003-02-23
1217321:US	49693975	RNKC6QKJXKHQS	0821774433	91135555	The Most Unsuitable Wife: The Kincaid's (Zebra Ballad Romance)	Books	4	22	22	N	N	A highly suitable romance! Highly recommended	Drake Kincaid faces an ultimatum. Either he marries before he turns thirty, or the ranch he loves will become his worthless uncle's property. When his parents' will specified terms of ownership, Drake was only eighteen and had years ahead of him to find a wife. Now his birthday looms only a few weeks away, and Drake needs a wife. So he decides he will wed the most unsuitable woman he can find. Then he will simply strand her at the family home with his grandfather in town while he resumes his life on the ranch, except for necessary visits to keep his wife breeding, of course. Then he proposes to Pearl Parker, and quickly learns he has vastly underestimated her.<br />Pearl desperately needs to take her extended family and escape their miserable town in rural Tennessee. She ekes out a living for her sister, brother and \\"cousin\\", by selling baked goods and home remedies. Before her death, Pearl's mother taught her the art of concealing a voluptuous body behind rags and beauty behind mild grunge. Drake's shocking proposal offers her and her family salvation, and she gladly accepts. Misfortune, however, dogs their steps back to Texas. Attempts on Pearl's life force some hard truths to the surface, including Drake's growing vulnerability to the woman he married, and her own secret that she fears will cost her Drake forever.<br />Author Caroline Clemmons captures the harsh cruelty of a distrusting town and lurking danger in THE MOST UNSUITABLE WIFE. Yet she tempers the meanness with levity, the danger with amusement. Drake confidently assumes that he can dictate terms and have his way, not realizing that his heart and his wife will have other plans. Indeed, the harder he denies his feeling to himself, the more trouble he makes for himself and the more amusing his plight becomes. On the other hand, Pearl's resourcefulness and ingenuity sparkles, yet she still manages to undervalue her own self worth. A delightful read, THE MOST UNSUITABLE WIFE comes highly recommended.	2003-02-23
1217374:US	49693975	R2SGRFSG1EZLMO	0821774565	650000682	Belle Of The Ball: The Three Graces (Zebra Ballad Romance)	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Great beginning to a new trilogy! Highly recommended	The Sullivan girls might have been named for The Three Graces, but none of the girls embodies the gift of the name she carries. Belle is rather homely, Grace is clumsy, and Charisma is blunt. Nevertheless, their mother strives to marry the girls into the upper reaches of society and raise her own status. Then the sisters overhear insults to their persons while escorted by three supposed gentlemen at the Garden of the Gods. The Three Graces hear their wishes, however, and decide to intervene and make their wishes come true. Of course the question remains if the wish to be granted is the spoken one, or the wish of the heart. <br />Kit Stanhope misses England when his family banishes based on a false accusation. For a new businessman, reputation is everything, and Kit must pay blackmail to keep his name spotless, which makes it difficult to fulfill his father's charge of finding a sound investment. Now he feels guilty that Belle has overheard his unfortunate insult, and vows to make amends. When Belle asks him to teach her the ropes of society, he accepts the opportunity. He does not know that she intends revenge upon the \\"threescum\\" who spoke harshly of her and her sisters. Belle wants to be beautiful so she can make the three men fall for her, and then toss them aside as such scoundrels deserve.<br />Author Pam McCutcheon kicks off the series The Three Graces with flair! With vivid characterizations and strong plotting, BELLE OF THE BALL demonstrates McCutcheon at her best. With a bit of help from above, Belle discovers her own beauty even as she learns the truisms that make plain women beautiful. With wounds that go equally as deep resulting from his family's rejection, Kit has his own lessons to learn about trust. The result is a surprising blend of comedy and romance that will have readers chuckling throughout. BELLE OF THE BALL once again demonstrates McCutcheon's gift for combining the unexpected with the enchanting in a unique voice that readers remember. Readers will eagerly anticipate the addition novels of the series including A TOUCH OF CHARM by Karen Fox and FALLEN FROM GRACE by Yvonne Jocks. BELLE OF THE BALL comes highly recommended.	2003-02-23
1217449:US	49693975	R3QLYSR6XWV6JE	0743446046	546454575	Nobody But You	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Scintillating -- Very highly recommended	Jacey Wilder hires investigator Dave Anderson to track down a former boyfriend. With her thirtieth birthday quickly approaching, she decides that she must trade the insecurities of supporting herself with her art for the stability of corporate accounting. She wants to marry, have children, live in the suburbs and drive an SUV. So she trashes her paint and brushes, and, with no appropriate men on her horizon, intends to locate the Mr. Right that got away.<br />With a successful true crime novel under his belt, Dave wants to publish fiction. Unfortunately, his editor wants true crime, his checking account needs a boost, and his aunt needs his support. He needs Jacey's job, but soon he uncovers facts that leave him suspicious of Jacey's boyfriend. Of course, he tells himself he is only staying on the case to keep the paychecks coming. Nevertheless, maybe Jacey is looking in the wrong direction for Mr. Right, even if she and Dave seem completely wrong for one another.<br />Julie Kenner's scintillating talent one again dazzles in NOBODY DOES IT BETTER. The intrigue of film noir combines seamlessly with an alluring romance to showcase Kenner's remarkable talent. Jacey's flair for the unexpected, including her stunning artistic talent and beloved car named Lucy, results in a fabulous heroine. Dave's struggles an author and determination to quietly support his aunt make his likewise memorable. Together Jacey and Dave are loveable, flawed human beings with the quirks and gifts that make them dynamic and believable. Secondary characters likewise add amusing eccentricities, in addition to laying the foundation for the sequel. Kenner's star certainly continues to shine with NOBODY BUT YOU, which comes very highly recommended.	2003-02-23
1217570:US	49693975	RESM6U4B6J1AE	0821773372	606155466	Dangerous Attractions (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Entrancing read! Very highly recommended	It was a time of racial unrest in Indian Key, Florida as the Seminole Indians, intent upon violence, swept through the settlement with fire and evil intent. Eleven-year-old Genna Whitworth shouldered the responsibility of her father's death that night, accepting the unending blame of her mother and sister. She didn't know her childhood friend Eli Blaylock survived, or that he also blamed her for that night. Years later, fate brings Genna and Eli together again, laying them at cross-purposes and tempting their hearts.<br />Jerimiah Hardy rescued the boy from a cistern, taking the twelve-year-old home to become part of his family. Eighteen years later Eli captains the wrecker that comes to the aid of a ship off of the Florida Reef. A woman, battered and nearly dead, captures his attention. Long ago he had decided that having answers to old questions would not matter anymore; that answers would only dredge up memories best left undisturbed. But Genna's presence stirs more than old questions for this man bound by honor and loyalty to marry another.<br />Author Colleen Easton pens an entrancing historical tale in DANGEROUS ATTRACTIONS. Easton's masterful storytelling sweeps readers away into a world by turns romantic and gritty, always compelling. A bird named Heathen, complex loyalties, and unexpected twists keep the plot moving along quickly, pulling the reader into an almost forgotten world torn by racial differences and rewoven by ethics and honor. From the moment their paths cross as adults, Genna and Eli are on a collision course with destiny, forced to deal the repressed secrets of the past and the dangers of the present. Their characters spring vividly alive with rich description and an impressive background. Secondary characters likewise sparkle, from the stolid Jeremiah and his secretive daughter, to Eli's entrancing first mate. DANGEROUS ATTRACTIONS comes very highly recommended.	2003-02-23
1217719:US	49693975	R1KAXQWQBMEX54	0373790740	776475595	Heat of the Moment (Harlequin Blaze, No 70)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Earth shattering -- Highly recommended	Earthquake research scientist Josie Gray buries her sexuality in working to retrofit old bridges and buildings to make them earthquake-proof. While earthquakes are unpredictable, she considers men even more so. When talk circulates that her company broke into the competitor's system and even sabotaged their competitor's trials, resulting in a nearly fatal accident, Josie leaves her job. She goes to the competitor, Peter Brennan to apprise him of her suspicions, trying to assuage her own guilt. <br />Before he meets Josie, Peter has never met a woman who does not even wear lipstick. Yet Josie's innate sensuality takes him by storm. Although he is suspicious of her motives, her accepts her word and, surprisingly, offers her a job. Since the accident that nearly killed him, Peter has worked for home. Although he has recovered sufficiently to leave behind his wheelchair, he has maintained the injured façade until he could determine who had tried to kill him. He knows being around a man in a wheelchair makes Josie feel safe, and wants to use the opportunity to help her rediscover her own sensuous nature. He underestimates the fact that she values truth above all else.<br />Author Lori Herter takes a slightly different approach to the fulfillment of erotic content in HEAT OF THE MOMENT. Rather than an impetuous romp with explosive consequences, Josie and Peter take a slower approach to sensual exploration. They work to gain trust and heal old wounds, insuring that Josie feel safe, which compounds the emotional complications as trust unravels. Fans of author Herter will recognize this marvelous authorial voice, whatever the genre, with her fluid prose and deftly woven	2003-02-23
1217741:US	49693975	R2UM00YTE4VUJ8	0373691114	909255541	Some Like It Sizzling	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Excellent debut release - Highly recommended	Lucy fantasizes of handsome men, scandalous rendezvous and extravagant weekend-long dates, but her reality is far more sensible and safe. Then she finds a cowboy handcuffed to her bed, her bags packed, and a reservation at The Fantasy Ranch, an infamous adults-only resort several hours out in the desert. Tired of her boring existence, Lucy embraces the opportunity to turn herself into a sex kitten, eating sinful foods with hot men and seeking an opportunity for a wild, one night stand.<br />Judd Walker takes the place of the resort's most popular employee in Lucy's bed to further his investigation. Someone seeks to sabotage his brother Mason's resort, so Judd goes undercover as an air-headed bimbo. Mason believes someone at Lucy's travel agency might be involved with the sabotage through a connection with his vengeful ex-girlfriend, which is how Judd finds himself dressed in a sleazy cowboy getup and handcuffed to Lucy's bed. Although Judd has had his share of wild women like Lucy, he has no intention of falling victim to red-hot lust again. Yet Lucy's contrasts intriguing him with her tempting innocence and sex kitten appearance. <br />Debut author Jamie Sobrato pens a tantalizing escape with SOME LIKE IT SIZZLING. Lucy's exploration of her wild side leads to steamy, sensual encounters that sizzle. Contrasts, contradictions, and deception, however threaten the erotic connection she makes with Judd as he conceals his identity behind a hottie exterior. The secondary plot between Lucy's boss and Mason's brother offers both heated amusement and a promise of a sequel. In SOME LIKE IT SIZZLING, Sobrato proves her talent with a delicious story with great settings, appealing characters, and breathtaking love scenes. Readers will definitely want to watch for her second release, a Blaze entitled PLEASURE FOR PLEASURE. SOME LIKE IT SIZZLING comes highly recommended.	2003-02-23
1217798:US	49693975	R3E4CJQE2YGRRF	0373790732	361071026	Against the Odds	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Sizzling! Highly recommended	Erotic novelist Misty Fortune might pen the sizzling bestsellers, but her own love life is a dud. So she pays a fortune to visit a unique Las Vegas resort specializing in adult fantasizes. Pampered and glowing, she reclines on a pile of cushions waiting for her selected fantasy man, when sexy Tucker Greywolf enters. He might be on the resort's payroll but she has definitely met the right man to make her sizzle.<br />Fire Marshall Tucker prefers shoptalk to the glamour of Las Vegas while attending forensic seminars at the Las Vegas Police Department. When buddies invite him to the infamous resort to investigate murder, Tucker comes along, never expecting to be seduced by the fantasy he stumbles upon. They have four days to explore their sizzling chemistry before return to their mundane lives. <br />Author Donna Kauffman pens a scorcher in AGAINST THE ODDS. Playfulness offsets passion in this page turning romp. Misty deplores her English skin, which gives her emotions away in splotches rather than the glow she envies in other women. Little does she know her regal bearing and clipped British accent brings about absolute fascination in Tucker. Both long for the proverbial happily-ever-after, but will eagerly accept four days of sexual bliss. The result is a believable hero and heroine with scintillating chemistry that readers will love. Once again Kauffman demonstrates her remarkable gift for sensual word play with silk cords, beads, and champagne. AGAINST THE ODDS comes highly recommended.	2003-02-23
1217829:US	49693975	RXEADFPBDG9Z1	1889262811	566528399	Rex	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Exciting young adult novel - Very highly recommended	A sudden earthquake sends paleontologists into a crack in the earth, leaving the scientific community and loved ones to presume their death. Their eleven-year-old son Davy is staying with his grandmother when he receives the unwelcome news. But without proof, Davy refuses to believe his parents are dead. Then his parent's personal effects arrive, including an unexpected surprise. <br />Author Fred Yager pens an exciting adventure young readers will revel in REX: A NOVEL. This dinosaur in New York achieves a comedic success even as Rex and Davy outrun evil scientists in a quest for survival. The dinosaur is surprisingly intelligent and loyal, giving him a unique characterization among young adult fiction. A fast paced read filled with friendship and danger, excitement and surprises, REX comes very highly recommended.	2003-02-23
1217837:US	49693975	R33LBSUJNVDOC2	0373790759	29048185	Game for Anything (Harlequin Blaze, No 71)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Playing for high stakes! -- Very highly recommended	Tracker McBride brings out a profound response in Sophie Wainwright--something base and primitive. After a year of fantasy, maybe an affair will get him out of her system. Armed with a coin with two heads and other tricks to throw the game to her favor, Sophie lures the very willing Tracker into her bed. Sophie has nicknamed him \\"The Shadow\\" for his ability to slip away undetected.<br />Two years ago Sophie's brother hired Tracker to head up security for Wainwright Enterprises. Sophie was humiliated and infuriated that Tracker proved her love interests to be nothing more than fortune hunters. Tracker decided that he did not deserve a princess like Sophie and over the last year has maintained his distance even while providing her protection. Unfortunately, someone is playing a deadly game and using Sophie as a pawn, and Tracker finds himself trapped between duty and desire.<br />Author Cara Summers pens a winner with GAME FOR ANYTHING. Sophie is a strong, independent woman willing to take risks for what she wants. Tracker is an Alpha male with the air of mystery and danger that makes him divinely sexy. His weakness for games of chance gives Sophie the edge when she cheats to get what they both want. Indeed, Sophie's toys get amazing results, adding a nicely naughty flair to this marvelously fun read. Furthermore, secondary characters sparkle, including Sophie's surprising astute cat and favorite characters from previous adventures. A wonderfully entertaining read, GAME FOR ANYTHING comes very highly recommended.	2003-02-23
1217848:US	49693975	R2CFGEY3GCT4LB	0373764839	861948281	The Playboy & Plain Jane  (Dynasties: The Barones)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Launching the "Dynasties: The Barones"	The Valentine Day curse strikes CEO Nicholas Barone hard, first when he learns of his fiancé's mercenary nature, and again a year later when she dies, leaving him the father. Deprived of the first year of his daughter's life, Nicholas vows to be an excellent father, but he needs help. Molly's cranky response to her new environment has taken its toll on his parents and on himself. <br />A degree in computers seems an odd qualification for a nanny, but Gail Fenton's gift for peek-a-boo soon convinces Nicholas he has found the right woman for his daughter. Gail knows she's nothing like the beautiful, sleek women Nicholas usually dates, but soon she finds herself hoping she can prove herself to be as right for the father as she is the daughter.<br />Readers who treasured the \\"Dynasties: The Connelly's\\" continuity in 2002, will love the return to the family theme with \\"Dynasties: The Barones\\" in 2003. With lighthearted levity and sizzling chemistry, author Leanne Banks presents a mismatched hero and heroine that discover more than superficial passion. As a nanny myself, I always find great amusement when authors successfully combine spegetti-os and nursery rhymes with the complexities that draw hearts together. Banks' treatment is remarkably skillful with the eccentricities that make characters dazzle. In addition, Banks gracefully introduces a remarkable cast of characters readers will look forward to meeting in their own stories.	2003-02-23
1217971:US	49693975	R20ETOLQPHZJP	0373196385	296235664	With One Touch  (Soulmates)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Entrancing! Very highly recommended	Twice over the last four years, rumor has sent Brooke Pennington's scurrying into obscurity when her methods of practice are called into question. Brooke's unorthodox ability to diagnose and heal small animals cannot be called upon at will. But when it presents itself, her gift has powerful, almost miraculous effects. Small vet clinics do not appreciate such unorthodox treatment methods. So when Nate Stanton offers her a position at the Whisper Rock Verinary Clinic, Brooke declines a partnership in favor a salary.<br />Nate immediately recognizes the soul depth connection between himself and Brooke. When Brooke's unusual ability with the animals manifests itself, however, he does not respond well to the possibility of public acclaim. Nate has already had his share of living in the spotlight with his movie star father, and he has absolutely no desire to return to the limelight. Nate desires roots and anonymity above all else, even a irresistible woman who offers the heat and passion of his dreams.<br />The Soulmates series excels with the winsome addition of WITH ONE TOUCH by Karen Rose Smith. Brooke's touch might bring healing to her small patients, but it promises notoriety for herself and anyone who chooses to share her life. Nate has rejected anyone associated with his family's scandal, and he rejects any possibility of yet more notoriety. Secondary plots lend their lives charming depth as Brooke learns to love her much younger sibling and to allow her father back into her life. Nate's mirroring family issues reveal his all too human vulnerability. Indeed, Smith has a gift for capturing the strengths and weaknesses that make her characters both believable and sympathetic. An entrancing read that is destined for the keeper shelf, WITH ONE TOUCH comes very highly recommended.	2003-02-23
1218140:US	49693975	R1MP60VN4VKL1L	0373711077	823525695	Finding Amy (Harlequin Superromance No. 1107)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Powerfully told tale -- Highly recommended	Chelsea Everett works for Risk Control International, teaching students the skills they need to stay alive. Her father had been a famous race car driver, and she inherited his skill for deftly handling cars traveling at high speeds and in dangerous situations. But such skill did not prepare her for the challenges she faces when she meets Trent Harrison.<br />Trent admits to instant attraction to Chelsea, inviting her to accompany him and his daughter on trip to Boston. Chelsea keeps an eye on his daughter while he gives a lecture, but then the unthinkable happens. Someone kidnaps his daughter and demands the impossible for her return. Suddenly, attraction turns to hatred as Trent blames Chelsea for the kidnapping, and himself for not sharing the past.<br />An impossible situation leads to love in Dawn Stewardson's FINDING AMY. While both Chelsea and Trent acknowledge their blossoming attraction, her guilt and his blame threaten to destroy any connection that they might forge. Stewardson handles their emotional situation with finesse, balancing their angst with possibility, allowing both to feel a gambit of emotions. Powerful character development and unexpected plot twists result in fast paced adventure readers will treasure. FINDING AMY comes highly recommended.	2003-02-23
1218143:US	49693975	R3HJC4QWDBNG34	0373711069	255914534	The Man Upstairs (Harlequin Superromance No. 1106)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Powerful character driven romance - Highly recommended	Bitter disillusionment in the past has caused Dena Bailey to seek solace in her work to the extent of making it her first priority. She works long hours and goes beyond the call of duty to earn the elusive brass ring, and nothing has ever distracted her; that, is until she meets the man upstairs, Quinn Sterling. While marriage and children have never been entirely ruled out of her plans, her interest in Quinn has entirely disrupted her vision of the future.<br />Tired of dating women who are drawn to his fame as a professional hockey player, Quinn finds Dena's disinterest in the sport refreshing. For the first time, he experiences what it means to be appreciated for one's own merits. Their agreement to engage in a lighthearted affair, however, meets profound challenges as Quinn finds himself falling hard. Further, a car accident leaves him with the care of two children. <br />Author Paula Bauer captures a story that easily could be real with rich prose and gentle understanding in THE MAN UPSTAIRS. Indeed, Bauer creates a marvelously complex heroine. She has become overly preoccupied with work, clearing illustrating her profound need for stability and rewards for her efforts. Consequently, Dena is ill equipped for falling in love, with our without children involved. She longs for deep friendships and connections to other people, yet she does not know how to establish and maintain them. Nevertheless, Quinn refuses to let her put him off, but his own challenges escalate with the arrival of children. The result is a marvelous character driven romance that readers will find entrancing. THE MAN UPSTAIRS comes highly recommended.	2003-02-23
1218274:US	49693975	R1GP9AQ821BSHD	0373196407	486295121	The Prince's Tutor	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wonderful Cinderella romance -- Very highly recommended	An escape from reality to attend her friend's fairy tale wedding goes woefully wrong when the best man disappears just before the ceremony. Amanda Hutton had hoped to forget her overdue rent and lack of job for a while, but chasing wayward Prince Stefano diTalora through casinos while wearing a frou-frou gown and heals was not what she had in mind. Worse, the king wants to hire her services as an etiquette tutor for Stefano, but Amanda's classes are designed for the children of dignitaries, not a playboy bachelor. <br />Stefano feels more comfortable on the ski slopes than at state dinners, purposefully dodging responsibility whenever possible. When his father leaves him no choice but to accept Amanda's instruction, Stefano becomes even more determined to thwart her. For reasons that are deeply personal, Stefano swore to never date a woman like Amanda, even agreeing to let the king arrange a marriage for him. Yet his carefully maintained distance threatens to crumble every time he is near his tutor.<br />Nicole Burnham has a knack for penning romance that lingers in a reader's memory. Last year's GOING TO THE CASTLE remains in this reviewer's memory as fresh as when I finished it and THE PRINCE'S TUTOR promises the same vivacious memory. Strongly developed characterizations and a fun plot are only the beginning. Burnham incorporates details that charm and add sharp originality, such as a rubber boat race and a forgotten rose. Indeed, THE PRINCE'S TUTOR proves that Burnham's deft skill at penning a Cinderella romance that possesses both a heart and a soul. THE PRICE'S TUTOR comes very highly recommended.	2003-02-23
1219915:US	49693975	R5CU97T8EC9VG	0971188211	284796066	Forevermore	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Evokative -- Highly recommended	Dreams of Maggie Mae Ramsay have come to Mae Sutton since childhood. A shift to nightmares, however, leads to a compelling need to visit the Scottish Highlands and learn more about Maggie Mae. Time shifts bridge the gap between Mae and Maggie, but no more so than meeting Adian Rasey, the man who owns the castle ruins where Maggie Mae disappeared. Indeed, according to the Mae's memories and the paintings she finds, Adain looks exactly like Maggie Mae's love, Quinn.<br />Mae's appearance likewise stuns Adain, because she looks exactly like the portrait of Maggie. Further, Adian also dreams, sharing a deep understanding of Mae's need to explore the past. But Moore Castle is a dangerous place where evil stalks the corridors and people mysteriously disappear. So Adain carefully guards his knowledge of the past and the people he and Mae resemble. <br />Author Denise Agnew weaves an entrancing tale that spans lifetimes in FOREVERMORE. Mae's fierce independence and determination to forego men meets its match in Adain's stubborn determination. These strong characters find themselves drawn inexorably together on a path of marvelous discovery. The mysterious links to the past and the powerful needs of the present provides a powerful tale of good triumphing over evil with heart-warming results. Indeed, Agnew's gift for deft intertwining of romance, mystery, gothic overtones, and the paranormal once again proves her remarkable storytelling gifts. FOREVERMORE comes highly recommended.	2003-02-21
1222650:US	49693975	R2LJ4EPXBAAF39	0373710992	875928546	The Farmer's Wife (Harlequin Superromance No. 1099)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Evocative tale of second chances - Highly recommended	Eight years ago Kim Luchetti fled the small Illinois farming community where she was raised, eventually buying a partnership in a law firm in Savannah. Only her father's hospitalization brings Kim back to face the ghosts and disappointments of the past. When she hears of the death of her former boyfriend's parents, Kim feels compelled to visit his farm to offer her condolences. <br />Unsuspecting of Kim's approach, Brian works on repairing the roof of his barn, tumbling to the ground in shock and breaking both wrists when he sees her. With both of Brian's wrists in casts, Kim's guilt over his injury drives her to offer to care for him and help out in the house until he recovers. But living in such close proximity forces Kim and Brian to face the past and their own unresolved feelings, despite her determination to leave everything between them in the past.<br />Second chances taking an entrancing twist in THE FARMER'S WIFE by Lori Handeland. Kim's determination to never be a farmer's wife and the contradictions and conundrums her choice presents result in a journey of self-discovery and transformation. Brian's determination to expose and heal the past provides a powerful counterpoint, maintaining a fascinating tension. Indeed, these vividly realized characters reveal weaknesses and strengths that will hold readers entranced. In addition, a secondary cast of characters mostly consisting of Kim's wonderful family will have readers hoping for more love stories coming from the fertile Illinois vista. A delightful read, THE FARMER'S WIFE comes highly recommended.	2003-02-19
1224819:US	49693975	R3RJRCW4YWOLJU	0373790775	593787532	Going Too Far: Legal Briefs (Harlequin Blaze, No 73)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Hot! Highly recommended	Marie Bertelli once let her bad girl rule in a steaming encounter with Ian Kilborn, to whom she gave her virginity. Eight years later, they are both attorneys spending time in the same courthouse, but Marie's father hire Ian to handle his affairs when the Treasury Department begins to investigate him for money laundering. Marie is outraged that not only did everyone in her family know of her father's legal difficulties, but that she was not consulted regarding the case.<br />Marie's well meaning, but traditionally interfering family has kept men like Ian at a distance. But when she propositions him, Ian cannot resist the opportunity. Marie's transformation from shy to siren has Ian counting the hours to their next encounter. But when their sizzling passion brings out strong emotions, the question remains if Ian will be willing or ready to pursue something more than scintillating sex. <br />Writing team Tori Carrington once again presents the kind of heat fans of come to expect in GOING TOO FAR. Marie and Ian discover the naughtiness of indulging hidden desire, indulging fantasy-inspiring trysts that will make reader's toes curl. But they fail to account for the result of such soul stirring passion and its emotional ramifications. While Marie comes from a stereotypical Italian family, Carrington skillfully gives them marvelous personalities that absolutely sparkle, especially with Marie's attempt to get her brother and his wife back together. The secondary senior love plot also adds a wonderful pizzazz! GOING TOO FAR comes highly recommended.	2003-02-17
1225140:US	49693975	R1IXXNYD73NYAF	0373711107	553543505	The Comeback Girl: Those Sullivan Sisters (Harlequin Superromance No. 1110)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Terrific series finale! Very highly recommended	Twelve years have not erased the bitter memories of Gold Creek for Kristen Sullivan. In an effort to protect her son, Kristen never told Zach of the family and town that they left behind. Certainly, she never told him about his biological father, who does not know of his existence until they return to Gold Creek. Consequently, Zach responds with detachment and anger to the changes in their lives. Worse, his father threatens to sue for custody. Moreover, Kristen's high school boyfriend Donnie Grimaldo refuses to be forgotten.<br />After Kristen's betrayal, Donnie married someone else. Jaded by his subsequent divorce, and disillusioned by his work, Donnie dreams of becoming an Air Marshal and making a real difference. But his ex-wife's flaky decisions and new husband interfere with plans, and suddenly their son will continue to be his responsibility. Donnie needs a wife to care for his troubled ten-year-old son while he is gone, and Kristen needs the stability of a marriage to man like Donnie to win a custody battle. But a marriage of convenience may be too limiting for two people who once loved each other deeply, despite their protestations.<br />Author Debra Salonen concludes her Those Sullivan Sisters series with an evocative tale in THE COMEBACK GIIRL. Of the sisters, Kristen faces the most difficult challenges by confronting the father of her child and his mother, even as she also faces the man who still holds her heart. Her relationship with her son, once idyllic, now extremely troubled, deftly portrays the most heart rending aspects of motherhood with grace. Kristen and Donnie are wonderful together as they rediscover life on a more mature level. Aunt Ida's inevitable decline adds a touching realism as well. It is the struggles of the both sons, however, that truly add a punch to the tale with their struggles of identity, need for attention, and challenges of integrating families. Indeed, Gold Creek has become a wonderfully real place that readers will deeply miss. A richly textured novel of surprising complexity and emotional depth, THE COMEBACK GIRL comes very highly recommended.	2003-02-17
1225265:US	49693975	R1YFQH16A11DFT	0373711050	308407622	The Healer: Deep in the Heart (Harlequin Superromance No. 1105)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Destiny and transformation -- Very highly recommended	Staff at Mercy Hospital calls her Miracle Malone until a riding accident destroys the gifted surgeon's right hand. Once her hand could massage life back into the heart she held, now it cannot grasp and release objects. When her physical therapy reaches a plateau without the necessary recovery to return her to the cardiac surgical suit, Caroline takes a month to recover in the Davis Mountains of West Texas.<br />Like Caroline, Diego Montalvo had once been terribly ambitious until a mission gone wrong burdens him with irredeemable guilt. Now Diego marvels that his hands, which once brought death, can bring forth life. As his grandmother ages, he steps into her place in the community as a healer where many of his people are more than a hundred miles from medical care and cannot afford it anyway. Nevertheless, his years as a medic have left scars much deeper than the ones displayed on his body and causing his limp. <br />Author Jean Brashear creates a powerful tale of spiritual healing in THE HEALER. Brashear's graceful narrative seamlessly bridges two vastly different worlds. Both Caroline and Diego undergo a tragic transforming moment that changes the course of their lives, leaving them with spiritual wounds as damaging as the ones that tear their flesh. In this searing tale, contradictions and impossibilities give way to hearts that need to rediscover dreams and self-forgiveness. Secondary characters, particularly Diego's insightful grandmother, provide intriguing depth to this powerful tale. Once again Brashear proves herself to be an author of fabulous richness, making her a favorite of romance readers. THE HEALER comes very highly recommended.	2003-02-17
1237580:US	49693975	RJXCV5W3QNVV5	0373691157	251100238	Hot Off the Press	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Gives a new twist to the "wrong bed" -- Highly recommended	Working for competing papers, movie reviewers Tess Elliot and Mike Grundel have little in common. She enjoys intellectual films while he prefers action adventure with plenty of mayhem. She was born with a silver spoon while he survived poverty. But they have one thing in common; both are driven to prove themselves, if for diverse reasons. She wants to earn her credentials, not rely on her wealth and social position. He wants to move back to hard news after a demotion following a story gone wrong. <br />Both get their opportunity when Mike bets Tess that he will have a front-page story before she will. Tess intends to see Mike eat crow, but their competition transforms into collaboration when they need to share resources and insight to prove a local developer has other plans for a bald eagle habitat. They both risk their careers, as the developer has already proven he will destroy anyone who gets in their way. Moreover, working together makes it challenging to control the attraction they have both been determined to ignore. <br />Film, both classic and contemporary, becomes a fascinating theme in HOT OFF THE PRESS. With her characteristic flair, author Nancy Warren creates wonderful characterizations filled with witty banter and heated attraction. An underlying serious plot, vividly realized secondary characters and provocative clashes combine to make HOT OFF THE PRESS heated entertainment. Indeed, readers who come to expect sizzling story lines and amusing clashes won't be disappointed. HOT OFF THE PRESS comes highly recommended.	2003-02-07
1237803:US	49693975	R3RMJNBXT25CE	0373245238	63963754	Wedding of the Century	Books	4	5	5	N	N	When Cinderella walks -- Highly recommended	Instead of the simple ceremony of her dreams, Annette Trevetti stands with Steve Corbett before the altar in a church bedecked in elegance and wealth. Her Cinderella gown and rise above her social position have come with a price, however, and she expected Steve to protect her from the discomfort much as her own brother would have done. Then a woman interrupts the ceremony claiming that Steve fathered her baby. Annette leaves behind only her torn gloves and rings.<br />Seven years later Annette returns to her hometown to care for her injured brother. Steve had married and divorced the woman who interrupted their ceremony and now raises his daughter Nell. Seeing Annette brings back all his old feelings in force, but convincing Annette to give him a second chance proves nearly impossible. However, Steve is tenacious. When his elderly relative arranges a meeting between Nell and Annette, events take an interesting turn, and Annette soon finds herself confronting living in only the present, and sharing much of it with Steve.<br />A second chance at love takes an interesting twist in WEDDING OF THE CENTURY. Once again author Patricia McLinn pens an evocative and powerfully told tale. While readers might doubt the groom's ability to remain silent at the altar when accused of fathering another woman's child, the idealism of youth and inbred control in any situation certainly explains his hesitance. Indeed, his demonic mother gives a new meaning to control and secret keeping. Annette's growth from victim to strength reveals a fascinating heroine who deserves such an extraordinary hero as Steve. The secondary cast also dazzles, especially Steve's precocious daughter. Fans will eagerly anticipate the sequel THE UNEXPECTED WEDDING GUEST coming in May 2003. WEDDING OF THE CENTURY comes highly recommended.	2003-02-07
1239263:US	49693975	R1MBQW1H0Y2ME8	0373790708	846582262	A Thrill to Remember (Harlequin Blaze, No 66)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Sizzling! Highly recommended	The last of the Bear Creek bachelors meets his soulmate at the Bear Creek masquerade ball. Caleb Greenleaf finds that a mask allows him to explore his sensual side as he dresses like Don Juan and captures the attention of a mysterious and sexy woman dressed as Klondike Kate. Following an especially erotic encounter, Caleb asks the mystery lady for her phone number and quickly realizes that she is none other than the girl who married his brother. <br />Following her divorce, Meggie Scofield yields to her friends' encouragement, dressing in the risqué image and strutting her stuff at the ball. She finds her costume liberating, and allows her usual barriers to drop for an evening. She assumes she will never see Don Juan again, although he vividly lives in her fantasies. A call six weeks later soon lands her in quite the conundrum when Don Juan reappears in her life just as her old friend Caleb arrives in town, and soon the fireworks begin. <br />While readers may recognize the familiar plot device of deception and masking, author Lori Wilde adds refreshing detail and erotic possibility in A THRILL TO REMEMBER. As Caleb suffers through the ethical dilemma of maintaining the illusion of strangers, he savors the opportunity to enjoy the seductive fantasy where reality and dream merge in something profoundly erotic. Wilde's mesmerizing style easily sweeps readers into her alluring world of sensual pleasure. Certainly, readers will find this novel A THRILL TO REMEMBER. Highly recommended.	2003-02-05
1239336:US	49693975	RMKK54RGBRFES	0373835698	262444224	Behind The Red Doors	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Very highly recommended	BEHIND THE RED DOORS links three extraordinary shops that market scent, jewels and lingerie. Through these doors wishes come true. These searing tales should not be reserved just for Valentine's Day. Indeed, readers who enjoy anthologies with a united theme and story line will absolutely treasure BEHIND THE RED DOORS. <br />Door #1 - \\"Heaven Scent\\" by Vicki Lewis Thompson <BR>In an innovative marketing ploy, customers uncomfortable browsing have the option to use computer kiosks to order their favored items and pick them up on their way out the door. To ascertain men's preferences and offer suggestions to shoppers, Jamie Ruskin asks long time friend and secret crush Dev Sherman to fill out a questionnaire. Certain his sister is somehow involved, Dev gives opposite answers, never suspecting that Jamie will use his own answers against him. The result is a sizzling, yet playful romp that combines erotic fantasy and aromatherapy in a sent-sational combination. <br />Door #2 - \\"Diamond Mine\\" by Stephanie Bond<BR>Valentine's Day went desperately wrong between Faith Sherman and Carter Grayson when she expected more than just a friendly dinner. When a diamond on loan requires increased security, Carter reenters her life. Only this time he claims a fiancé and soon Faith finds herself recommending diamonds for someone else. Bond's characteristic flair for combining romance and humor truly sparkles. <br />Door #3 - \\"Sheer Delights\\" by Leslie Kelly<BR>Conned into a photography session by her cousin, schoolteacher Meg O'Roarke becomes an inadvertent sexy model for lingerie. Her gasp of shock when she sees her body plastered on the store's kiosk screen brings an unexpected rescuer. But Joe Santori will be hard pressed to explain that the lingerie hanging in his closet was for her-a fantasy woman he had not even met. Kelly's dynamic storytelling ability truly results in an unexpectedly sheer delight.	2003-02-05
1239660:US	49693975	R13FM0OOA4HP4	0373790708	846582262	A Thrill to Remember (Harlequin Blaze, No 66)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Sizzling! Highly recommended	The last of the Bear Creek bachelors meets his soulmate at the Bear Creek masquerade ball. Caleb Greenleaf finds that a mask allows him to explore his sensual side as he dresses like Don Juan and captures the attention of a mysterious and sexy woman dressed as Klondike Kate. Following an especially erotic encounter, Caleb asks the mystery lady for her phone number and quickly realizes that she is none other than the girl who married his brother. <br />Following her divorce, Meggie Scofield yields to her friends' encouragement, dressing in the risqué image and strutting her stuff at the ball. She finds her costume liberating, and allows her usual barriers to drop for an evening. She assumes she will never see Don Juan again, although he vividly lives in her fantasies. A call six weeks later soon lands her in quite the conundrum when Don Juan reappears in her life just as her old friend Caleb arrives in town, and soon the fireworks begin. <br />While readers may recognize the familiar plot device of deception and masking, author Lori Wilde adds refreshing detail and erotic possibility in A THRILL TO REMEMBER. As Caleb suffers through the ethical dilemma of maintaining the illusion of strangers, he savors the opportunity to enjoy the seductive fantasy where reality and dream merge in something profoundly erotic. Wilde's mesmerizing style easily sweeps readers into her alluring world of sensual pleasure. Certainly, readers will find this novel A THRILL TO REMEMBER. Highly recommended.	2003-02-05
1239840:US	49693975	R3G16HXB7Z2KVB	0373691149	788289308	Tangling With Ty (Harlequin Temptation)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The second story in the South Village Singles series	Dr. Nicole Mann was a child prodigy, graduating college at the age of twelve. Surgery is her life, masking her inept people skills. With myriad piercings and sporting camouflage, Nicole's appearance certainly masks her IQ and profession. Her growing friendship with housemates Suzanne and Taylor creates friction as she tries to learn to let others close, buts it's her overwhelming attraction to Ty that really disconcerts, especially since she echoes Taylor's vow to remain single.<br />Architect Ty O'Grady's dark history precludes attachments and family.  A world traveler accustomed to fulfilling his wanderlust, Ty fell in love with South Village where he builds a strong professional reputation working alone rather than joining the usual architectural firms. Then his strong attraction to Nicole and a shocking email open doors that Ty is ill equipped to handle. <br />Author Jill Shalvis has a created a marvelous hit with the South Village Singles series! Readers who enjoyed ROUGHING IT WITH RYAN certainly will not want to miss its dazzling sequel, TANGLING WITH TY. Both Nicole and Ty are incredibly intriguing characters. They are tough survivors, unable and unwilling to allow people close. Nicole's piercings and Ty's tattoo both represent badges of honor for surviving nearly impossible challenges with grace. Indeed, their mutual strength of character draws them together even as it keeps them divided, thereby providing paradoxical challenges that force them to face inward demons and needs. Be sure to catch next month's finale with MESSING WITH MAC. TANGLING WITH TY comes very highly recommended.	2003-02-05
1239844:US	49693975	R3EUNI5B4RLPXO	0446610437	923420109	High Meadow	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Powerful drama -- Highly recommended	Her sister's death leaves Kate Foley sharing responsibility for her eight-year-old nephew with her mother. Her father's death left High Meadow in financial straights, but years of hard work are finally paying off for the horse farm. While neither Kate nor her mother knows the identity of Ben's father, the little family lives in relative peace until he suddenly appears. Kate must make room in their lives for Daniel Montero even as she must control her misgivings at sharing her adopted son. <br />NY Yankees' pitcher Daniel never expected to have children following a bout with the mumps as an adult, so the opportunity to meet his son is welcome. Indeed, Daniel intends to become an important part of his son's life. Kate's unexpectedly strong reactions to him do not put Daniel off from his goal. It does not take long for Daniel to realize that he not only wants the heart of his son, but also his son's mother. But piercing Kate's virginal exterior and exploring the woman concealed beneath will be one the greatest challenges Daniel has ever faced. <br />Author Joan Wolf pens an intriguing and angst filled account of custody struggles, loss, and love in HIGH MEADOW. Readers who have likewise agonized over custody issues will strongly identify with both sides of the issue as Kate and Daniel confront difficult ethical and heart rendering dilemmas. Daniel's desire for children and his own feelings of inadequacy provide an unexpected and welcome twist. Interior dialogue adds profound depth, although many contemporary romance readers may be uncomfortable with such a literary device. Spoken dialogue seems a bit stiff at times, but strong characterizations and outstanding plotting certainly compensates. Secondary characters sparkle, especially as Kate's mother discovers new love and battles cancer. HIGH MEADOW comes highly recommended.	2003-02-05
1242572:US	49693975	R38LS6S6W8XWCE	0373691106	274028767	Roughing It With Ryan (Harlequin Temptation)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Add to your keeper shelf -- Very highly recommended	After breaking up with fiancé number three, Suzanne Carter decides she is bad for men. A desperate search for a new apartment introduces her to Taylor Wellington, a woman of contradictions. Taylor exudes wealth and good taste, but acts as if she is on a shoestring budget. Instant rapport between them soon has Suzanne happily settled into Taylor's loft apartment, but only after a tantalizing encounter with Ryan Alondo.<br />Ryan owns a tree cutting business, and a desperate late night call following an especially windy storm brings him to Taylor's apartment building. A tree has crashed into the loft, trapping Suzanne. Despite her pact with Taylor to swear off all men, Suzanne soon finds herself wishing to yield to temptation. Nevertheless, she vows to remain stalwart in her decision to swear off men, and it will take all of Ryan's persuasive powers to convince her otherwise. <br />Author Jill Shalvis pens another sizzling romance with ROUGHING IT WITH RYAN. In this first of her miniseries, Taylor and Ryan ignite the fires of passion with scintillating characterizations and delightful playfulness. Taylor's history of fiancés will have readers chuckling even as they treasure Ryan's family values. Fans who expect steamy sensuality and quality romance will not be disappointed; add this one to your keeper shelf. ROUGHING IT WITH RYAN comes very highly recommended.	2003-02-03
1242922:US	49693975	R1RJ3RA0FPV8UI	0505525062	947773072	From Boardwalk with Love	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Move over James Bond! Very highly recommended	Selected for her unusual gift, Camryn O'Brien looks forward to her first assignment with B.L.I.S.S., an international crime fighting organization. Her propensity for singing childhood songs while under stress does not negate her ability to incapacitate men in unprecedented numbers. Indeed, unwanted help, or blatant interference, can land a man in the hospital in record time. Camryn's first assignment, to protect the world's wealthiest man, thrusts her into a world of subterfuge and danger, not to mention a lot of cool toys.<br />Accompanied by three geriatric retirees, Camryn finds herself on life-size Monopoly board where players risk fortunes. Bad boy Jace Sentori, a man of secrets and a tattooed self-proclamation of Game Master, adds a romantic element that gives danger a whole new meaning. With hot spots implanted under her skin to control F.I.D.O., romantic interludes pose dangerous consequences. But Camryn cannot imagine all the games Jace has ever played, and he never looses. <br />The first of a series, FROM BOARDWALK WITH LOVE is a playful romantic romp that will while away a lazy afternoon with delighted giggles, not to mention outright guffaws. With her MaryKay pink Cadillac and robotic cat F.I.D.O, Camryn embarks upon a wonderfully comedic journey, determined to prove her independence and self-reliance. Unfortunately, every time she reaches the point of combustion with sexy Jace, circumstances blow them apart again. With lots of teasing, word play, and spoofing, author Nina Bangs creates an eccentric delight readers will adore. FROM BOARDWALK WITH LOVE comes very highly recommended.	2003-02-03
1243493:US	49693975	R2LBVE1070AZE2	0312984596	170838457	Absolute Pleasure	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Too luscious for words! Very highly recommended	At twenty-seven, Lady Elizabeth Harcourt remains a virginal spinster, devoting her life to her father's demands. Her place in society as the only child of the Earl of Norwich assures Elizabeth protection from unsuitable encounters. Then unexpectedly, Elizabeth finds herself momentarily in contact with a bounder of the worst sort. Artist Gabriel Cristofore presses his card into her hand as he departs, leaving a lingering memory of outrageous flattery. <br />With her father's remarriage to the unpalatable seventeen-year-old Charlotte, Elizabeth finds herself with time on her hands. Tired of the petty squabbles and temper tantrums of her new stepmother, Elizabeth boldly follows her fancy and approaches Gabriel's studio for a portrait. She mistrusts the sincerity of his compliments, but yields to the forbidden in long afternoons of exploration and growing sensuality. <br />Gabriel Cristofore enjoyed his superficial, rather capricious life, never troubled by his conscious; that is, until Elizabeth came along. Suddenly his career of chasing aristocratic women, luring them to his bed and extracting the means to support his household holds little appeal. Enamored with Elizabeth's stunning originality, Gabriel knows their affair is only temporary. But for the first time, he finds himself longing to linger with this newly awakened siren who has stolen his heart.<br />Author Cheryl Holt sketches an intriguing view of Elizabethan sexuality in ABSOLUTE PLEASURE. She displays a gambit of possibilities from the most repressed to the most liberal, from the happiest to the most miserable. Specifically, Gabriel gleefully leads Elizabeth through a journey of self-discovery, replacing her repressed sexuality with delightful outrageousness and sensuality. His father John likewise discovers the joy of love and passion with Elizabeth's housekeeper Mary, demonstrating that love comes to mature characters just as passionately. Meanwhile, Elizabeth's father finds marriage distasteful with awoman young enough to be his granddaughter, proving that dissipation and greed reaps what it sows. (Note: some readers may be uncomfortable with the description of a marital rape.) Such a strong cast of characters, fabulous eroticism, and a subtly complex plot demonstrates Cheryl Holt's beautiful story telling ability. Holt's scintillating gift for tapping into secret fantasies satisfies readers who enjoy the combination of the sexually explicit with a heart stopping romance. Add this one to your keeper shelf; it's an absolute pleasure! Very highly recommended.	2003-02-02
1243822:US	49693975	R2CJLMX5W9OJMH	0821775170	994239008	Strong Spirits	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Dazzling! Very highly recommended	At the age of ten, Daisy Gumm discovers the allure of the Ouija Board, quickly learning to use it on the gullible wealthy. During her teens, Daisy's working class family comes to depend upon her income for survival, as does her war veteran husband when he comes home crippled. Daisy's very practical philosophy summarizes her approach to the world: \\"It's only the rich in this world who can afford to be disenchanted and blasé. The rest of us are too busy trying to earn a living.\\"<br />Daisy makes her living off of people like the Kincaids, who \\"possessed more money than sense.\\" Mrs. Kincaid quickly comes to rely upon Daisy to restore hope when her family seems to disintegrate around her. Her daughter is arrested for drinking in a speakeasy. Her son has his own particular proclivities. And her husband chases the maids from his wheelchair before disappearing under suspicious circumstances. Daisy finds herself caught in the midst of it all, comforting Mrs. Kincaid and guiltily fullfilling Detective Sam Rotondo's demands that she spy on the wealthy family. <br />STRONG SPIRITS defies an easy categorization, although Kensington lists historical romance on the spine. Instead, STRONG SPIRITS possess a uniquely original tone, imaginative narrative voice, and a marvelous level of the levity. Author Alice Duncan gracefully captures the roaring twenties with its Fizgeraldian affluence and defiance of the war just finished and the one yet to come. Furthermore, Daisy Gumm Majesty is one of the most delightful heroines I have ever encountered, practical, courageous, and determined. Her youthful enthusiasm never abates even when facing daunting challenges. Indeed, Alice Duncan has outdone herself with this sparkling novel. STRONG SPIRITS comes very highly recommended.	2003-02-02
1248960:US	49693975	R12WPGP3DNSF70	0373691165	132678607	Wicked & Willing  (Bad Girls)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Venus Messina scoffs at the idea that she might be the long lost granddaughter to a millionaire. She loves Irish pubs, drinking beer, and wearing jeans. Designer clothes and exquisite jewelry have never held much appeal for her. Worse, accepting this connection to a grandfather would men that her childhood dream would end in tragic sadness instead of the joyful reunion for which she has always longed.<br />From first glance, Venus immediately inspires thoughts of hot, sweaty nights and erotic possibilities for Troy Langtree. He certainly did not expect to find such a woman when he accepted this new job with Max Longotti in Atlanta. Unfortunately, as the possible granddaughter of his employer, their relationship threatens to screech to a halt almost upon introduction; that is, if it were not for his daring and her bravado.<br />Author Leslie Kelly compromises this bad girl's love for the wild side despite her opulent surroundings and extraordinary windfall in WICKED AND WILLING. Venus embodies the goddess elements of her namesake with brazen self-confidence and a refusal to compromise the qualities that make her so disarmingly unique. Indeed, her tiny hummingbird tattoo perfectly suits her aggression and beauty, as Troy so quickly recognizes. On the other side, Troy is an equally marvelous hero who treasures Venus' scintillating qualities without expecting or desiring that she change. Their shared overwhelming desire and naughty games will keep readers turning the pages quickly if only to see what they are up to next. Together Venus and Troy are one of the most marvelously matched, sexually charged couples of series romance. WICKED AND WILLING earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2003-01-29
1249704:US	49693975	RWG0A3UYYYM62	0446610550	627176291	The Playboy (The Chandler Brothers, Book 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Sexual tension and incredible sparks	When he arrives at the scene, single cop Rick Chandler assumes his mother has arranged yet another matchmaking scheme, although Kendall Sutton's bridal gown seems a bit over the top. Rick never intends to marry again. With the entire Yorkshire Falls' single women avidly pursuing him, Rick has disavowed his playboy reputation, but he has tremendous skill at letting them down easily. So the next step, agreeing to pretend to be lovers with Kendall seems a logical solution and would force his mother and the array of women she has sent after him to back off. <br />Kendall Sutton arrives in town with pink hair, a wedding dress, and car problems. Worse, the cop that arrives on the scene brings a chemistry she can neither control nor deny. When Rick asks her to pretend to be his lover, Kendall falls in with his plans. Accustomed to a nomadic lifestyle, she does not intend to stay in town long. Kendall learned the hard way not to invest too much energy in hopes and plans. Unfortunately, maintaining her free spirited lifestyle may be difficult when their charade becomes the real thing.<br />A sizzling delight, THE PLAYBOY by Carly Phillips joins THE BACHELOR on the keeper shelf. THE PLAYBOY includes a scintillating cast of characters, including one disillusioned and wounded teenager. Kendall's red hair and devil may care attitude strikes quite a contrast to Rick's deep roots and commitment to his hometown. Rather than clashing, however, they compliment each other in ways that are both striking and amusing. In addition, Phillips displays a knack for capturing teenage angst with Kendall's younger sister Hannah, who is at once delightful and infuriating. One can only hope this hellion will find her way to maturing and her own story one day! A breezy, amusing romp with sensual undertones that will curl your toes, THE PLAYBOY comes very highly recommended.	2003-01-28
1260850:US	49693975	R1BVCHJUFCOID4	0373272693	373958485	A Kiss in the Dark (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1199)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Highly recommended	As impossible as it seems, controlled and iron willed Bethany St. Croix stands accused of a crime of passion. Police find Bethany in her apartment with the blood of her ex-husband on her hands and with her fingerprints on the murder weapon. P.I. Dylan St. Croix heard the call on his scanner, arriving at Bethany's address expecting to find her dead, and not much relieved to realize it was his cousin Lance lying in a pool of blood.<br />Dylan and Lance had always had a complicated relationship. Orphaned and raised by their grandfather, they never achieved the brotherhood their grandfather expected. Worse, they both had come to love the same woman, but it was Dylan's intensity that drove Bethany into his cousin's arms. Tragedy and silence tore them apart, and it will take a miracle to bring them together again. Nevertheless, impossibility promises to yield to new beginnings. <br />Jenna Mills evocative style presents a tale drenched with passion in A KISS IN THE DARK. Lines like, \\"Don't know why people have to complicate a good divorce with murder\\" reveal Mills at her scintillating best. Bethany is a difficult heroine to like with her icy control, yet as her tale unfolds her painful past makes it easy to understand her refusal to yield to passion. Conversely, Dylan thrives on passion making him the substance of wild fantasy, proving everything can change with a kiss in the dark. Further, the carefully rendered complexities of the plot move the story along quickly, with enough surprises to keep the reader guessing to the end. Indeed, Mills once again produces an intense, fast-paced and clever tale that appeals to readers who like their romance on the dangerous side. A KISS IN THE DARK comes highly recommended.	2003-01-19
1260871:US	49693975	R147370REZVWXE	037371100X	60403277	First Love, Second Chance: The First Family of Texas (Harlequin Superromance No. 1100)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Highly recommended	A horrible accident sends his wife careening over a mountainside, leaving grief stricken Michael First charged with murder. Someone tampered with the brakes, and all evidence points to him. Family joins rank to support Michael and his four grieving children as he attempts to balance his defense with caring for his family and the ranch. When he seeks legal counsel, however, his lawyer introduces Michael to his partner, Lara Stovall.<br />Michael and Lara had been high school sweethearts until college brought about change. Michael took one look at Clare and fell head over heals in love, eventually marrying her and creating a life together. If he had not met and married Clare, there was a good chance Michael and Lara might have created a life together. Now after twenty years and profound change, any personal relationship they once shared must take a backseat to a murder charge. <br />With FIRST LOVE, SECOND CHANCE, author K.N. Casper provides a strong finish to The First Family of Texas series. The complexities and flaws that make these characters memorable and unique have deeply touched readers who have followed this powerful series. FIRST LOVE, SECOND CHANCE follows its predecessors with a vivid setting, potent conflict, and scintillating dialogue. These mature characters face the ethical dilemmas and family concerns that make Casper's novels memorable. Readers will eagerly await future offerings from this talented author. FIRST LOVE, SECOND CHANCE, comes highly recommended.	2003-01-19
1261566:US	49693975	R1MSKVUREAE2J6	0373272677	586712211	All a Man Can Ask	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Danger, intrigue and sizzle! -- Very highly recommended	Wounded after intervening in a student's life, Faye Harper retreats to a childhood haunt to find respite. Rather than the expected peace, however, she quickly finds herself in the midst of a criminal investigation. Detective Aleksy Denko, also from Chicago, unofficially seeks answers in arms deal gone wrong that left a former partner dead.<br />Aleksy underestimates Faye's resilience, viewing her as a cream puff. Cute like Faye is not his type, although she can make him understand its appeal. What he really needs is a cover, and Faye can provide it. Unfortunately, Faye has to get involved with anything that involves risk. Too bad her own actions have already put her in danger.<br />A faced paced, heart pounding read, ALL A MAN CAN ASK provides unexpected twists that makes author Virginia Kantra's novels a must read. Unexpected courage and surprising compassion bring these characters vividly alive, even as drug addicted teens, stretchy bras, and romantic entanglement also intriguing elements that prove these character's all too human flaws. Indeed, the fast paced plot and the strong characterizations are nicely balanced, resulting in a tale that is at once deadly yet richly balanced by powerful emotions and physical attraction. ALL A MAN CAN ASK comes very highly recommended.	2003-01-19
1266786:US	49693975	R37XXLHU8562VY	031287183X	18178196	The Book of Love: A Treasury Inspired by the Greatest of Virtues	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Very highly recommended	THE BOOK OF LOVE examines the possibilities and challenges of love, inviting the reader to enter the imaginations of others who have examined this greatest of all virtues. Images of love give wing to imagination and the lifting of our spirits as the words through the centuries and from across the world inspire reflection. Some sections give obvious answers to love's meaning even as others present the troubling aspects of love that can confound us all.<br />Authors Andrew M. Greeley, a Catholic priest and best-selling author, and his sister Mary G. Durkin, a pastoral theologian and author, co-edit this collection on love. Drawing from poetry, folklore, sayings, music, stories and autobiographical reflections, these experts from around the world examine the question of love's meaning. More than just sentimental mush, in the hands of these editors, love unfolds as defining virtue that bonds us each to the other and to the divine. THE BOOK OF LOVE comes very highly recommended.	2003-01-14
1267044:US	49693975	R38L08JGGEDCJ9	0373292392	113226702	Lady Lyte's Little Secret	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Hijinks and high spirits -- Highly recommended	When she learns of her pregnancy, Lady Felicity Lyte immediately ends her affair with Thorn Greenwood. Many years of chastisement by her husband for not bearing him an heir, while his offspring proliferated even under her nose, convinced Felicity that she was to blame. Now widowed and believing herself barren, she has embarked upon a bold affair with Thorn, only to end it rather than reveal her condition. Unfortunately, her nephew seems to have eloped with Thorn's sister Ivy, leaving it to Felicity and Thorn to stop their hasty marriage before they spend a lifetime of repentance.<br />Conservative Thorn reveled in his affair with Felicity, exhilarated by his own scandalous behavior. While he did not bore Felicity, he had failed to truly excite her either, until his impromptu visit following Ivy's elopement. Suddenly his bold determination elicits regret in Felicity for ending their affair before the Season ended. Moreover, they soon find themselves joining forces to find their wayward kin and fighting their ever-growing attraction.<br />Author Deborah Hale creates an unexpected treat with LADY LYTE'S LITTLE SECRET. Her unorthodox characterizations that take advantage of the loopholes created by a society provide a delightfully fresh heroine and an unexpectedly fun hero. Felicity is an admittedly selfish woman who develops into something more. Especially likeable because of her maturity and boldness, Felicity propositions the man of her desire, expecting to be able to be able to neatly control the situation. On the other hand, Thorn recognizes the fact that he is not the type of man who would ordinarily capture the attention of such an intrepid woman. As a result, this lighthearted romp will keep readers decidedly amused even as they revel in Hale's absorbing style. LADY LYTE'S LITTLE SECRET comes highly recommended.	2003-01-14
1267057:US	49693975	R3C7UMUWM9L12X	0373272685	96871255	Under Siege (Wingmen Warriors) (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1198)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	His ex-wife's departure did not break Lieutenant Colonel Zach Dawson's heart, but he did resent her abandonment of their daughters when she ran off with her cooking instructor boyfriend. Shelby, a rebellious teen, feeds her mother's international food offerings to their increasingly overweight dog while eight-year-old optimist Ivy eats every confection in hopes that it means her mother will somehow be with them. Only Julia's help with the girls has kept his family together. But his responsibility to her deceased husband Lance Sinclair overshadows any friendship they might share.<br />Raised in a commune, Julia found the life as a reserve Air Force pilot stifling. She had fought a loosing battle to salvage her marriage with Lance, only to loose him anyway. Eight months later she bore his son, a child afflicted with Down syndrome. Overwhelmed by the responsibility and needs of her young son, she accepts Zach's sudden proposal so that she might quit work for a year to care for her child. In return, Zach needs Julia's help with his daughters. Unfortunately, both have underestimated the damage such an arrangement might inflict upon the heart.<br />Author Catherine Mann pens a lively, entrancing read in UNDER SEIGE, deftly capturing life's challenges with finesse and grace. Mann's characters sparkle, including newborn Patrick whose Down syndrome neatly balances the challenges presented by Zach's daughters, especially the troublesome Shelby. Julia's free spirit radically defies Zach's military perfection, yet together they balance in a heart-stopping story readers will find impossible to forget. In addition, Mann boldly captures the heart stopping challenges a pilot's wife faces, including the dreadful fear of the knock on the door with the announcement that a pilot will not be returning home. A remarkable read that belongs on the keeper shelf, UNDER SEIGE earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2003-01-14
1267398:US	49693975	R2LTZSQO45FV4N	0373441576	897713667	Wedding for One / Tattoo for Two	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Girls with attitude! Very highly recommended	\\"Rebel Girls Forever\\" becomes Mariah Moroe and Nikki Winfield's battle cry. While other girls are primping and cliquing, they agree \\"conformity bites.\\" Clothing becomes their outward display of inward differences, comprised of weird fabrics and funky homemade jewelry. Mariah and Nikki share disappointed parents and free spirits, fleeing town at seventeen with Mariah still decked out in a wedding dress vowing to get GEDs and tattoos. Together they create the rebel girl's philosophy on relationships: men only last two months then out the door they go before familiarity breeds boredom and bad manners.<br />WEDDING FOR ONE is Mariah's story, beginning moments before her aborted wedding, when she flees the church with her mother's words ringing in her ears: \\"Don't run away, Mariah... For once in your life, stick to something.\\" Eight years later her mother's pleas inspire her to return to convince former groom Nathan Goodman to stick around the family business Cactus Confections. Nathan has become her father's right hand man, the son he never had, exhibiting the stable qualities Mariah never mastered. She strikes a deal with Nathan. In exchange for his participation in the Mariah Monroe Institute for Self-Discovery for one, she will assist him at the factory. They both get a lot more than they bargained for.<br />TATOO FOR TWO picks up two years later with Nikki's story. A class reunion and her sister's desperate phone call regarding her father's health forces Nikki to confront the past. Her conservative parents do not know she owns True to You Tattoo, a tattoo parlor that combines metaphysics and art. She has told them she owns a boutique and eloped with a doctor named Warren. When Hollister Marx shows up on her doorstop, she knows she has met the perfect man to stand-in for her fictional husband. Now Nikki has only to convince the very conservative Hollister to along with a fictional name and life history for a week. <br />Author Dawn Atkins demonstrates the deft skill of a master as she intricately weaves these two fabulous tales. Bad girls Mariah and Nikki each find their own eccentric path to love with joy, mistakes, and laughter with men who idealize conservatism. These are not the usual prissy heroines, but women with heart, GEDs, and attitude. Told with the liveliness and verve fans have come to expect from this marvelous author, WEDDING FOR ONE and TATOO FOR TWO belongs on the keeper shelf, coming very highly recommended.	2003-01-14
1268139:US	49693975	RR5DAOEHUXGNA	1592799612	355082096	The Nuworld Series, Book I: Nuworld	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Highly recommended	Having reached the age of searching, Tara wants to learn about the other races of her world. All her life, she has moved with her clan, traveling from one territory to another, learning warrior skills and racing her motorcycle with the other children. Runner and Gothman enmity intrigues her, so she searches out the Gothman to see what kind of warriors they really are. She craftily evades capture even as she knows Gothman only teach their men to fight whereas Runners view their men and women as equal. Eventually evading capture, she seeks refuge with Reena, a Gothman woman with surprising independence.<br />Tara decides to remain with the Gothman woman to learn their ways. She vows to be submissive and domestic-she could not have chosen a lifestyle more foreign to her. Women in the Gothman world live a life of domesticity, completely oblivious to anything outside their regular routine. They grow up anxious to be claimed, and then fall into a life of servitude and gossip. It does not take long, however, for her draw the attention of Darius, ruler of the Gothman, and win his claim. But he has a lot to learn about Runner women, and the independence they preserve, especially when Darius makes a mistakes that endangers not only his love with Tara, but their two nations.<br />Author Lorie O'Clare pens an intriguing dark romance in NUWORLD. Male and female roles are challenged, explored, and exploited in a way that will leave readers questioning the complexities and compromises of their own lives. O'Clare creates a memorable cast of characters: Tara is a powerful warrior woman determined to maintain her independence even as Darius is determined to control her. In addition, extended relationships provide marvelous secondary characters, especially Tara's parents. With a fast paced plot, ruthless bids for power and invasion reveal a dangerous world where life and death are closely linked. Indeed, issues of relationships, equality and war lend powerful depth to the novel, resulting in a read impossible to put down. NUWORLD comes highly recommended.	2003-01-14
1271243:US	49693975	RGRC1GHJHFDA5	0373272502	503154719	All A Man Can Do  (Trouble In Eden) (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Danger, intrigue and sizzle! -- Very highly recommended	Wounded after intervening in a student's life, Faye Harper retreats to a childhood haunt to find respite. Rather than the expected peace, however, she quickly finds herself in the midst of a criminal investigation. Detective Aleksy Denko, also from Chicago, unofficially seeks answers in arms deal gone wrong that left a former partner dead.<br />Aleksy underestimates Faye's resilience, viewing her as a cream puff. Cute like Faye is not his type, although she can make him understand its appeal. What he really needs is a cover, and Faye can provide it. Unfortunately, Faye has to get involved with anything that involves risk. Too bad her own actions have already put her in danger.<br />A faced paced, heart pounding read, ALL A MAN CAN ASK provides unexpected twists that makes author Virginia Kantra's novels a must read. Unexpected courage and surprising compassion bring these characters vividly alive, even as drug addicted teens, stretchy bras, and romantic entanglement also intriguing elements that prove these character's all too human flaws. Indeed, the fast paced plot and the strong characterizations are nicely balanced, resulting in a tale that is at once deadly yet richly balanced by powerful emotions and physical attraction. ALL A MAN CAN DO comes very highly recommended.	2003-01-11
1271592:US	49693975	R2R4EUG6I57P9O	0373272669	221580545	Alias Smith and Jones  (The Tremaine Tradition) (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Heart throbbing intensity -- Very highly recommended	Acting as a courier gives Analiese Tremaine's life a bit of a thrill, but nothing like the dangerous missions her brothers pursue. But when brother Sam goes missing, Analiese assumes a new identity, Ann Smith, and follows a name in her brother's files to a reclusive man known only as Jones. Unfortunately, painful memory and betrayal has driven Jones into a self appointed life of seclusion, and he does not welcome Ann's intrusion.<br />For five years Jones has been out of the business, making a living running charters and finding sex in the arms of women who expect nor more than he does. Ann's attempt to charter his boat irritates him, especially when she manipulates a booking into going someone else. Soon he finds his good sense overridden by a need to protect her from peril that send them into plunging into a jungle adventure that promises life-threatening danger.<br />Author Kylie Brant once again proves her ability to create an intriguing romance filled with extreme intensity in ALIAS SMITH AND JONES. These finally realized characters come vividly alive as Ann refuses to allow Jones' difficult nature to thwart her self-appointed mission to find her brother. Indeed, years of dodging her over protective brothers prepare her well for the irascible Jones. Further, Ann's powder puff surface conceals of woman of surprising depth and resiliency; something Jones will learn the hard way. A fast paced plot guaranteed to keep the blood pounded and tension on high, ALIAS SMITH AND JONES comes very highly recommended.	2003-01-11
1280928:US	49693975	R37YT3WDEW68G5	0373711085	664599920	Someone to Watch over Me (Harlequin Superromance No. 1108)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Following a bitter divorce, Isabelle Navarro returns home after work, opens the garage door, and finds her children dead of carbon monoxide poisoning in the back seat of her ex-husband's car. He survived. Isabella makes it her life mission to seek legal retribution for her children's deaths. She believes his actions to be deliberately planned, but even the media implies that her ex-husband acted from insanity. <br />Even most people who know Isabella do not speak to her now, because they cannot find the words around the knowledge of her tragedy. But Gabe Paston does not back away so easily. From the moment he sees Isabella catering his buddy's wedding, Gabe needs to know Isabella. So he buys a nearby sheep farm and plans a career change. But Isabella's nerves are stretched tight by the upcoming trial. <br />Author Roz Denny fox has a remarkable gift for creating heart-rending tales based on news articles she changes across. SOMEONE TO WATCH OVER ME will stun readers with its thoughtful account of a mother's worst nightmare. Isabella's grief and rage are expertly portrayed, and Gabe comes through as a believable, memorable hero as he gently pursues the wounded Isabella. Once again Fox pens a compelling story that haunt readers long after the last page is turned, proving her reputation for penning some of the best contemporary romances on the market today. SOMEONE TO WATCH OVER ME earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2003-01-04
1281523:US	49693975	R32XYFKDT48IRM	0373790716	256869954	The Sex Files (Harlequin Blaze, No 67)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Sizzling! Very highly recommended	A bullet almost claims Peggy Fox's life when she surprises her FBI fiancé and bank robber Susan Jones in bed. As soon as she opened the door, Susan had rolled over, retrieved Miles' revolver and fired off a shot, but not before Peggy saw the suitcase full of money nearby. Now she is on the run, and criminal profiler Oliver Vargo, author and FBI expert, is her only hope. But circumstances spiral out of control, and she finds herself in a steamy encounter even before she can enlist his aid.<br />A reporter publicly challenges Oliver to take the information from the Sex Files-the facts of the most erotic behavior in North America-and run through the new profile software used by the FBI. The result would be the likeness of the sexiest men and women of America. The female result is a woman that captures Oliver's imagination with the fictional name of Cameron. She titillates his fantasies, and shocks him when he glimpses her in real life. Unfortunately, she disappears after an erotic encounter that rocks his world. <br />Author Jule McBride pens a fast paced romp of betrayal and exploration in THE SEX FILES. Mistaken identity leads Oliver and Peggy through a mesmerizing cat and mouse game rich with sensual pleasure and rife with desperate secrets. Peggy inadvertent concealing of her identity allows for out of character impetuousness even as she desperately needs Oliver's help. Oliver's blend of fantasy and reality adds an element of playful confusion as he follows over Manhattan, determined to track her down even as FBI profiling adds an unexpected twist to the tale. A sizzling read, THE SEX FILES comes very highly recommended.	2003-01-04
1285300:US	49693975	R7LFVKFVE9XOR	0765302632	209769670	The Prize in the Game (Sulien)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Stunning fantasy read - Highly recommended	A moment of carelessness leads to tragedy when a warhorse dies. In retaliation for the animal's death, Rhiannon, the Goddess of Horse and other Beasts, curses the kingdoms of the island of Tir Isarnagiri. This cursed, four friends, Conal, Emer, Darag, and Ferdia, prepare for kingship. Soon they are subsequently forced into conflict as their countries move toward war.<br />The narrative voices shift between Conal, Elenn, Emer, and Ferdia. Emer and Conal fall in love, although she is expected to wed Darag. They dream of disappearing together, but a lifetime of preparation for duty does not allow Conal to abandon responsibility. Conal and Darag are rivals for the kingship; the plot follows their attempts to win the throne and the deteriorating relationship between them. <br />THE PRIZE IN THE GAME is set in the same world as THE KING'S PEACE and THE KING'S NAME. Told from four shifting points of view, this Arthurian style unfolds in a world of magic and fantasy. Heroic challenges of battle and loyalty combine for a slow heat that reaches a roiling boil as the climax prepares the reader for another sequel. Richly realized characterizations, and a rich historic tapestry overlaid with glisten strands of magic, make THE PRIZE IN THE GAME an exceptional read coming highly recommended.	2003-01-01
1286162:US	49693975	R3KSUXJ9K66LLN	0312290977	36294990	The Riddle of the Deplorable Dandy: A Novel of Georgian England	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Highly recommended	Elspeth Clayton and Gervaise Valerian share an inauspicious beginning with harsh words and embarrassment hot between them. Elspeth assumes Gervaise to be nothing but a quick-tempered dandy, little suspecting mutual need will sharply change her perceptions. But her determination to save her brother from the French gaol after his arrest for service to Madame Pompadour leads to her desperate plight. In exchange for aid to her brother, Elspeth volunteers to aid Gervaise.<br />Gervaise's father, a fugitive from justice, must escape the country undetected. When his accomplice his injured, Gervaise forces Elspeth to take her place. Despite their mutual dislike, their common desire to aid loved ones leads to a rousing adventure on both sides of the Channel as unknown assassins pursue them. Of course, their plight draws this unlikely duo together in an emotional entanglement that will please romance devotees. <br />Patricia Veryan pens a dazzling romantic intrigue in THE RIDDLE OF THE DEPLORABLE DANDY. On one hand, Elspeth's determination to save her brother despite the risks to her life and reputation results in a strong willed heroine who is the perfect match for Gervaise. On the other hand, Gervaise carefully conceals his truth worth behind a dandified exterior. Fraught with danger, betrayals, false identities, and near calamities, THE RIDDLE OF THE DEPLORABLE DANDY comes highly recommended.	2003-01-01
1288584:US	49693975	RM0E3J1QTSN75	0971598118	760562009	T'ongil : the thirst for love	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very highly recommended	The women call their clients horses, riding them to provide satisfaction. But Changmi is different, riding the horses for her own pleasure, often chastised for taking too long with men who are already hooked on her. When Ainsley Revere comes to her, he proves himself to be different than the rest of the horses, seeking to know the elusive woman behind the façade. But his interest threatens the careful barriers that protect a prostitute. <br />Ainsley is a cat whisperer, able to understand the big cats of the jungle. He wears the scars of Rose, a jaguar, on his back. Raised by his Native American grandfather, time slows for him on occasion, allowing him to embrace the movement of leaves or the meaning of sunlight on a pond. He cannot control the gift, but embraces it when it is offered. Once, in that twilight world where time stops, Ainsley rescues a child who falls into the cat pit, but the jaguar Bella Donna watches and promises to exact her toll. <br />Like the child that he rescues, Ainsley braves the world in which Changmi lives, attempting to extract her from it before it devours her. Like the cats he treasures, Changmi does not trust his intentions, viewing his intrusion with caution. She is nicknamed Rose, like the cat that marked Ainsley, and the scars she can leave are just as deadly. But their lives are tightly bound by destiny and promise.<br />Author Julian Winter weaves a mystical, mesmerizing text in T'ONGIL. T'ongil is a Korean world meaning to connect and unify. T'ONGIL brings together Native American and Korean cultures in a rich tapestry of heart-rending sacrifice and secrets. As the novel progresses, the delicate connections of its weave lead to a lyrical world of magic and love. As readers savor the carefully revealed bits and pieces that comprise complex characterization and sophisticated narrative choices, T'ONGIL becomes a tale of profound, mystical beauty. T'ONGIL comes very highly recommended.	2002-12-30
1302223:US	49693975	R24WIYS8H883UP	0967907314	428686498	Disappearing into View	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	At fifteen, bitter disillusionment shatters Colin Franklin's world. Rather than live in the society of his father's making, Colin chooses homelessness. The transience of street living made the questions and doubts of his childhood nothing but ephemeral memory. <br />Colin supports his meager need selling pigeons to restaurants as replacement for the squab on their menus. It worked for years until one evening when Sid gave him two bucks for a bird he found dead. That bird gives the small time crook Vince food poisoning. Curious about the enterprising young man, Vince seeks Colin out and offers him a job.<br />Nicknamed \\"Birdy\\", Colin helps manage a food processing plant that uses goose, rabbit, and rat meat in its product. Production increases radically to meet demand as Vince's underworld connections require more and more. The homeless staff the plant, working intense hours for practically nothing. Soon Birdy comes to question what he sees occurring, piecing together his shattered existence in a transformational odyssey of profound insight and redemption. <br />A potent psychological drama, DISAPPEARING INTO VIEW provides an extraordinary view of a world most of society chooses to ignore. Beneath the streets of Boston exists a society of the homeless, comprised of surprising characters from the deranged and delusional, to the surprisingly wise and complex. The darkness of the tale finds relief in scintillating dialogue, dramatic surprise, and penetrating depths. A tale that poses dark and troubling questions with amazing clarity, DISAPPEARING INTO VIEW earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-12-17
1305434:US	49693975	R18K6DX9BSKUXJ	1551668262	96305119	The Wager	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Struggles of the heart -- highly recommended	Laura Harte endures a number of painful shocks in a short period of time. First a tragic accident kills her mother and leaves her injured. Then she learns that the father she believed to be deceased actually lived in New Orleans with his wife and twins. Now she must cope with her feelings for Josh Logan, a man sent by her grandmother to fetch her to New Orleans. A need binds Laura and Josh as she recognizes a hunger, a passion in him that goes beyond anything physical. That need calls out to her, touching something deep within her heart. Nevertheless, she'll never forgive the Jordan's for their impact on her life, or Josh for his dishonesty when they first met.<br />Laura's grandmother Olivia Jardine won the Princess Hotel from Josh Logan's grandfather over fifty ago. Olivia refuses to sell the hotel even though it's loosing money, preferring to ask Josh to go to San Francisco to persuade her granddaughter to come to New Orleans. She offers Josh the same wager that won her the Princess. Josh vowed to his grandfather to get the beautiful hotel back. He went to California to meet bring Laura her grandmother's message, but found himself liking her so much he couldn't bring the pleasure to an end by revealing his true purpose. Unfortunately, his decision alienates her when she learns the truth, especially when she learns the other condition of THE WAGER.<br />Laura struggles with issues of identity as she struggles to reconcile the past with the father she never knew. Disillusionment and bitterness with a father who married a socialite and had twins leaves her empty and frustrated. The path to healing and self-acceptance lends this marvelous depth and believability as she struggles with the past and with issues of the heart. An entertaining contemporary romance, THE WAGER richly portrays the struggles of the heart, although the premise seems a bit thin at times. With the rich southern background of New Orleans, portrayed with the grace of a true southerner, THE WAGER comes highly recommended.	2002-12-14
1309541:US	49693975	R8JPTDH7W0BRX	0373272642	479925978	Serving Up Trouble (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1194)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Add this one to your keeper shelf -- Very highly recommended	When life shifts from mundane to terrifying in one brief moment, Angie Rivers undergoes an epiphany. Her life has become boring, even if she had methodically become the antithesis of everything her parents want for her. So when a man grabs her for a hostage, Angie determines that life will change if she is given a second chance. Fortunately, officer Sam O'Neill stands in line next to her, springing into action and taking down the would-be robber.<br />Sam considers himself a rather cynical cop, destined to remain single after his mother and ex-wife's rejection of his career. He distances himself from his emotions and devotes his life to his job. Then Angie rocks his world, making him feel and need. Unfortunately, as she continues to put herself in danger as the only person who can identify the leader of an identity theft ring, Sam's need to protect her from danger seems to override his own common sense and self determined destiny. <br />Jill Shalvis is SERVING UP TROUBLE with style. Quirky, sexy, impulsive Angie brings sparkling life to Sam's gray existence. Angie's second chance brings about a decision to change her life, following her dreams and pursuing her goals despite the discouraging words of her family. As a result, Angie is a powerful, delightful heroine, serving up trouble to criminals and Sam in equal measure. Author Shalvis succeeds in gracefully combining suspense, sparkling energy and humor for a fantastic read. SERVING UP TROUBLE belongs on the keeper shelf. Very highly recommended.	2002-12-11
1310198:US	49693975	RO174HJA7GG2F	0373790724	672320939	The Sweetest Taboo (Harlequin Blaze, 68)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Marvelous blend of romance and erotica	Inheriting her grandfather's bar gave Erin Thatcher endless hours of work but not satisfaction. Yet the bar is her legacy from the grandfather who gave up everything to care for her, and Erin intends it to succeed. Late hours and restlessness lead to imaginative interludes with the man in the apartment above hers. Elevator rides, chance encounters in the parking garage or mailroom make her long for more. Then Erin reads an article that motivates her to break all the rules and pursue her desire. She wants sex with a bad boy, a rake, a rapscallion with no guilt and no worries. <br />Sebastian Gallo lives a very controlled life, allowing no one to come close emotionally. He buries his dark past and hidden pain in his fiction hero Ryder Falco, penning sinister, dark fiction, working out his angst by late night prowling and spending long hours in his opulently decadent shower. Sebastian's solitary existence is a design of his own making as opposed to the horrible years of his childhood. Long ago he vowed he would never look to someone else for security, substance or support. But then, he underestimated the needs of his heart.<br />THE SWEETEST TABOO combines raw sexual energy with fierce emotional passion in a savvy blend of extremities certain to fulfill the most demanding lover of romance and erotica. Indeed, author Alison Kent has a gift for cutting to the very essence of modern woman's struggle to reconcile her needs and desires with the standards society sets. Sexual freedom does not give Erin the experience she imagines as she struggles to divorce extraordinary sex from its emotional ramifications. Sebastian likewise struggles with self-identity, rejecting his past by create a fictional character that bears the brunt of his dark side. Further, the pace of the novel maintains a gripping edge as both Erin and Sebastian struggle with their inner demons and deepest desires. A titillating read with gritty detail and fierce emotion, THE SWEETEST TABOO comes very highly recommended.	2002-12-10
1310308:US	49693975	R3QD2QDPYM4GS2	037369105X	916437726	Simply Sexy (The Simply Series, Book 5)	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Alluring sexual, seductive power at its best	Prodigal son Colin Lyons returns from an assignment in South America where sun drenched danger was only a bullet away to a different kind of risk. In his absence, his father placed stepmother Corinne in charge of the family paper. Corinne changes the paper's focus from hard news and strong advertising dollars to fluff and near-bankruptcy. Colin does not believe that sex will sell newspapers and plans to enlist columnist Rina Lowell's assistance, courting her friendship even as he plans returning the paper to hard news at the expense of her job.<br />After her husband's death, guilt consumed Rina. Financially secure, Rina sought more than her old career and a New York City penthouse. Drawing on her writing and people skills, Rina comes to Ashford to make a new beginning writing a weekly column for the Times. When she arrives in town, Rina establishes her reputation as quiet, inconspicuous woman. Research completed, she is now ready to strut her stuff so she can share first-hand wisdom with her readers. Her journalistic debut will consequently mark her return to the social scene. Furthermore, while she is not ready for a long-term relationship, Rina finds the idea of a fling with Colin taking on real possibility.<br />Author Carly Phillips pens an enticing, sensual romp in SIMPLY SEXY. As Colin awakens passions Rina has never before experienced, their shared chemistry ignites. He does not mean to take advantage of her, but a simple kiss demonstrates how impossible of a position he creates for himself. Moreover, their unexpected connection adds heat, texture and intensity for which he is unprepared. Rina likewise finds it difficult to maintain emotional distance with such a profound connection between them, especially as she begins to enjoy her rediscovered sensuality. Secondary characters likewise sparkle as spunky Emma Montgomery's specialty of matchmaking adds a dynamic presence to the book. A delightful holiday romance with the joys, quirks, and uniqueness that readers have come to expect from Phillip's pen, SIMPLY SEXY comes very highly recommended.	2002-12-10
1310705:US	49693975	R2EJOP3X1IOMVW	0373790694	180486139	Fire and Ice: Legal Briefs (Harlequin Blaze, No 65)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Smart, sassy, and sizzling! Very highly recommended	A one-night stand leaves both Tommy \\"Wild Man\\" Brodie and Jena McCade longing for more. He is a highly paid hockey player; she is a criminal defense attorney. Both are accustomed to working hard and playing equally as hard, never taking their sensual liaisons too seriously...until they meet each other. It has been three months since their sizzling night together, and both still fantasize about it. So when an injury takes Tommy off the ice, he decides recuperation at Jena's place is just what the doctor ordered.<br />Jena decides that she needs a wife when she opens her door and finds Tommy on her doorstep. Her instant response ignites them both. Jena's sexual escapades have become legendary among her friends, and her sudden reticence in sharing her experience makes them all suspicious. Perhaps bad-girl Jena has finally met her match. Tommy is everything that Jena wants in a short-term affair, but she'd better decide quick if she wants something brief or if she is willing to risk for a whole lot more.<br />Writing duo Tori Carrington live up to their blazing reputation with FIRE AND ICE, balancing steaming romance, hot erotica, rich character development and a delightful plot. While Jena and Tommy know from the beginning that they are perfect partners in bed, establishing an equal relationship proves much more challenging, especially with Jena making some rather stereotyped assumptions. Furthermore, Jena's struggle with career and personal demons reveal her vulnerabilities in a way that cannot help but endear her to readers' hearts. Fans will also welcome the return of Dulcy and Quinn from A STRANGER'S TOUCH. Carrington makes it difficult to wait for each new scintillating release, and readers will be left panting for the release of GOING TOO FAR in February 2003. Add FIRE AND ICE to your keeper shelf as it comes very highly recommended.	2002-12-10
1310710:US	49693975	RYEQLRCSW1OL5	037383568X	339519755	Casey (Buckhorn Brothers, Book 5)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Second chances -- Very highly recommended	Emma Clark's notorious reputation can rival anyone's in Buckhorn, Kentucky. Unfortunately, what makes a man a stud makes a woman a whore, and, at seventeen, already Emma endures the gossip and the label. Her innate sensuality attracts every boy in school but one; the only one she truly wants. The late one night, her tense family situation escalates and she arrives, with a bruised cheek an outraged father, on the Hudson doorstep. She had told her family that she was pregnant.<br />Casey Hudson will not let his plans get sidetracked regardless of his need for Emma. Indeed, Casey learned a lot from his family about how to treat women, but he never learned how to cope with Emma. When admits to not being pregnant, Emma stays the night with the Hudsons, before disappearing. A search does not turn up the teenager, and resources are quickly diverted to a more immediate problem. Still, Casey not forgot the girl who got away. When she suddenly returns to Buckhorn eight years later, Casey cannot stifle long-buried emotions and passions.<br />Clashing family backgrounds and desperate need bring Casey and Emma together in CASEY, before decisively dividing them once again. This second chance at forever can only come with blistering honesty and scorching need. Unfortunately, Emma guards secrets that threaten her chances for forever. Secondary characters, including favorites from the past and B.B. Emma's delightful dog result in a passionate, tension filled plot that is uniquely inventive. Such marvelous characterizations have made author Lori Foster one of the most dazzling authors in the industry, as she once again proves with her deft ability of balancing the wild side with strong integrity. Very highly recommended.	2002-12-10
1313520:US	49693975	R3ELKKLQUMHAMN	0373710925	927431738	The Gift of Christmas (Harlequin Super Romance Anthology, No 1092)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Wonderful holiday collection -- Highly recommended	Harlequin Superromance has combined three uniquely creative tales to touch the heart at this holiday season. Each story offers something a little different, whether it is a family rediscovering the love that binds or the start of something new. THE GIFT OF CHRISTMAS comes highly recommended.<br />\\"Stuck with Each Other,\\" by Jan Freed: The Anderson household has grown apart, so Jim surprises them with an expensive skiing vacation just sixteen days before Christmas. Unfortunately, his wife Sharon resents being taken away from her new career without warning, and the children prefer to hang with friends rather going off with family. At Jim's insistence, they accept the opportunity, detouring by his father's mountain home before heading to the ski resort. Seeing the tension and bickering between adults and children, Grandpa arranges his own holiday surprise, hoping to remind them of the love they still share.<br />Freed's story will echo many readers' own lives with the stress and responsibility that tear this family apart. The Andersons are wonderful; Jim and Sharon have been married for a number of years, taking one another and their three children for granted without meaning to. The children react against absent and busy parents with bids for attention and outrageous behavior. A wonderful story of love and healing, \\"Stuck with Each Other\\" kicks this collection off with a bang!<br />\\"Undercover Santa\\" by Janice Kay Johnson: Sergeant Reed McCall might be wearing the padding and beard of Santa, but he feels more like Scrooge when he receives his undercover assignment. Someone threatens to kill a Santa, so as many cops as can be spared are assigned to Santa duty. When an armed man takes a woman and her son hostage, along with \\"Santa\\", they find themselves locked in a storeroom, discovering the magic of unexpected encounters. <br />Readers familiar with Johnson's marvelous stories of men in uniform will recognize her indelible style and unorthodox approach to the holidaysin \\"Undercover Santa.\\" For a cop that does not like kids, Reed will undergo a remarkable transformation that readers will treasure. Unexpected twists to the tale will both surprise and amuse readers, making \\"Undercover Santa\\" a delightful read. <br />\\"Epiphany\\" by Margot Early: Born to hearing impaired parents, Carmen Dinesen never felt accepted by her family and their world. When her parents died unexpectedly, Carmen took responsibility for her younger, hearing impaired sister, Bizzy. Now Bizzy wants only one thing for Christmas; she wants to adopt a wild mustang. Unfortunately, they do not fit in small apartments or small budgets. Then Chris Good Rider proposes marriage, providing a home and a mustang to fill Carmen and Bizzy's dreams. Too bad he does not profess love as well. <br />Author Margot Early paints a world most hearing people never consider, reversing roles so that it is the one who can hear who feels left out. Carmen's struggle with self-acceptance results in a unique kind of healing. Flaws suddenly become endearing, and with love anything becomes possible. Indeed, Early creates a beautiful world of wisdom, rich with heritage and love, for the holiday season.	2002-12-07
1313858:US	49693975	R15VF3VXX8IJEL	0843951389	707616733	Whatever It Takes (Leisure Historical Romance)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Charming historical romance -- Highly recommended	Maddy Potter will do whatever it takes to gain custody of seven-year-old Katie. Friends have long encouraged her to put away the widow's weeds she has worn for the last seven years, but Maddy has vowed to never marry again. So she hires a proper gentleman to court her and leave her at the altar. Such a plan will provide the necessary respectability to see her through the adoption hearing in four weeks. When he arrives, however, Clayton Kincaid is too handsome and too potent for her comfort, making her wonder if the citizens of Pepper Cloud will believe he is sincerely interested in her.<br />Clay suspects that this honoring of a family debt is actually nothing more than another of his mother's matchmaking schemes. He arrives in Pepper Cloud a day early to catch Maddy unprepared. He finds her modeling a daring dress for a dressmaker, revealing her passionate nature. Clay agrees to court her for a few weeks, but refuses to allow her dictate every move he makes. Moreover, he has never met a woman so obviously immune to his charms. Furthermore, he worries that Barrows House might be an unfit place to raise a child. He certainly will not repay a debt of honor by compromising a child's future. <br />Author Winnie Griggs pens an engaging historical romance in WHATEVER IT TAKES. Maddy's eccentricities make her character sparkle, from her poker playing to her unorthodox housemates. Further, Maddy has long worn her widow's weeds as a shield of protection, but Clay's arrival blows away her carefully built walls. Indeed, Maddy's proper appearance conceals a marvelously free-spirited heroine, who has touch the right of touch of hoyden to make her truly interesting. Clay longs to release the slightly naughty woman from her self-imposed strictures. He also conceals a weakness that makes this powerful hero all too human. His sincere concern for Katie's well-being likewise brings his character vibrantly alive. In addition, the fun secondary cast brings the background to life, especially the Pepper Cloud Propriety Police. Indeed, rich characterizations complete with endearing vulnerabilities and emotional depth, will inevitably capture reader's hearts. Light hearted and entertaining, WHATEVER IT TAKES comes highly recommended.	2002-12-07
1314144:US	49693975	R1MP4W0MH9Q1XS	0373790686	290281344	A Man for the Night (Harlequin Blaze, No 64)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fabulous story line -- Highly recommended	Josie Williams needs a date for her ten-year high school reunion. When she showed up five years ago, she came away with mortified memories of a night in tears. This time she intends to arrive with her boyfriend in tow, ready to sparkle and dazzle. Too bad she breaks up with her current boyfriend just before the reunion. At a friend's suggestion, she arranges an escort for the evening. When she meets, however, Josie's fantasies take flight, and she dreams of taking him home as her sex slave for the night.<br />Callum McCloud's younger brother makes big bucks escorting attractive women. But when his big break comes for his acting career, he is scheduled for a date with Josie. So he convinces his older brother to fill in. Callum did not expect such a sexy lady, and suddenly his libido kicks up to high. Now he is determined to fill every fantasy Josie has on her wish list. But more than lust brews in their heated encounter, and emotions will demonstrate a will of their own.<br />While A MAN FOR THE NIGHT may not offer the daring eroticism readers expect from the Blaze series, it does offer such a marvelous story that it merits reading. Author Miranda Lee delivers an Alpha male who does not hesitate to stick up for his lady. His battle ready attitude when they arrive at Josie's reunion reveals a knight in white armor with a heart of gold. Not only does he fill Josie's fantasies, but he will inspire some hot ones for readers as well. Josie's determination to lure him into bed, contract or no, demonstrates the modern, powerful woman readers delight in. A MAN FOR THE NIGHT comes highly recommended.	2002-12-07
1315035:US	49693975	R344NVGXCSFQ9K	0970622511	923454992	Hamlet Dreams	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	For years Zac has visited the Other Place, visiting medieval fortresses, Avalon, Sherwood Forrest and anywhere else his imagination takes him. Normally he snaps right out of what he calls \\"Hamlet Dreams\\" when he hears the sound of an alarm, an ambulance passing, or when he feels a light touch. Since he started dating Cecile, Zac has not visited the Other Place as frequently. When he does visit, Zac finds it increasingly difficult to rouse from the dreams; it is as if something holds him there. <br />For six months Zac and Cecile have dated. While they have come close to consummating their relationship, Cecile always withdraws before they can. Nightmares of a vicious attack prevent Cecile from relaxing enough to make love with Zac, regardless of how tenderly he holds her. Her roommate suggests their mutual virginity may be part of the problem, but Cecile does not agree. Moreover, someone knows of their difficulties, turning their challenges into an opportunity to release evil into the world.<br />On the first day of a new semester of teaching, Cecile discovers a mysterious note that states: \\"I have not forgotten you.\\" She reads a hint of hidden menace into the words, fearful her stepfather has returned to stalk her in retribution for his jailing. Eventually, she discovers Zac slumbering so deeply that she cannot wake him; summoning aid, she helps to hospitalize him. But the doctors are baffled and eventually label Zac's case psychiatric. Cecile does not suspect that the force holding Zac captive is not of this world and brings incredible danger to them both.<br />Author Jennifer Barlow creates a surreal landscape of deceptive danger and lurking menace in HAMLET DREAMS. Both Zac and Cecile love each other deeply but are young and naïve, making them easy to prey to the malevolent forces that seek to manipulate them with their own fears. As Zac travels the labyrinth of his own psyche, he must confront the dark fantasies and hidden desires that even he has never acknowledged. Traversing a landscape constructed of fear and impossibility, Barlow leads the reader through a stunning tale of delicious malevolence and dangerous desire. No reader will want to miss this unusual and compelling novel. HAMLET DREAMS earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-12-06
1315233:US	49693975	R3FI3CQPV1BN1J	0373711026	543948874	North Country Man (Harlequin Superromance No. 1102)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A stunning tale of healing and love -- Very highly recommend	While she practically begged for an easy assignment, Claire Levander expected deluxe accommodations, certainly nothing as rustic as the Upper Michigan. Her boss promises that they have booked her into the Day Brook House where she will have nothing to do but breath fresh air and release stress. And decide if she wants to recommend that Bel Vista Hotel Corporation should purchase the property from its unsuspecting owners. Her boss could not have been more wrong. Before she even arrives, Claire encounters Michigan's wildlife with uncomfortable closeness, including the hermit Noah Saari. <br />The proprietor of Day Brook House puts Claire in the \\"Valentina bridal suite.\\" Rumored to be cursed, the suite displays a bridal painting that does not convey the joy of a wedding, but suggests a much more foreboding and chilling tone. According to the prophesy, any woman staying in the suite will be married before the year is out in retribution for the jilted, suicidal Valentina. But Claire's social life has been on hold for a long time, and establishing a relationship with an alpha male as reclusive as Noah might hold some especially difficult challenges. Especially since she will be leaving in a week to resume her high powered career.<br />An orphaned cub and other assorted wildlife lend an intriguing backdrop to Carrie Alexander's NORTH COUNTRY MAN. The closeness of the citizens of the small community of Aloutette, Michigan, both alienates and draws characters together with painful gossip and sparkling loyalty. While Claire and Noah might be the stereotypical case of opposites attract, their path is quite original from steam baths and fallen plaster to a creative legend. Further, Noah lends a powerful presence to the novel with his genuine heart and deeply held secrets. As his past becomes revealed, readers will find him as irresistible as Claire does! In addition, while many elements might seem to superficially follow traditional plotting, Alexander has a flair for giving them subtle twists that keeps her writing refreshing and different. An absolutely delightful read, NORTH COUNTRY MAN comes very highly recommended.	2002-12-06
1315272:US	49693975	R1SLUOUN0Q7TQK	0970622511	923454992	Hamlet Dreams	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	For years Zac has visited the Other Place, visiting medieval fortresses, Avalon, Sherwood Forrest and anywhere else his imagination takes him. Normally he snaps right out of what he calls \\"Hamlet Dreams\\" when he hears the sound of an alarm, an ambulance passing, or when he feels a light touch. Since he started dating Cecile, Zac has not visited the Other Place as frequently. When he does visit, Zac finds it increasingly difficult to rouse from the dreams; it is as if something holds him there. <br />For six months Zac and Cecile have dated. While they have come close to consummating their relationship, Cecile always withdraws before they can. Nightmares of a vicious attack prevent Cecile from relaxing enough to make love with Zac, regardless of how tenderly he holds her. Her roommate suggests their mutual virginity may be part of the problem, but Cecile does not agree. Moreover, someone knows of their difficulties, turning their challenges into an opportunity to release evil into the world.<br />On the first day of a new semester of teaching, Cecile discovers a mysterious note that states: \\"I have not forgotten you.\\" She reads a hint of hidden menace into the words, fearful her stepfather has returned to stalk her in retribution for his jailing. Eventually, she discovers Zac slumbering so deeply that she cannot wake him; summoning aid, she helps to hospitalize him. But the doctors are baffled and eventually label Zac's case psychiatric. Cecile does not suspect that the force holding Zac captive is not of this world and brings incredible danger to them both.<br />Author Jennifer Barlow creates a surreal landscape of deceptive danger and lurking menace in HAMLET DREAMS. Both Zac and Cecile love each other deeply but are young and naïve, making them easy to prey to the malevolent forces that seek to manipulate them with their own fears. As Zac travels the labyrinth of his own psyche, he must confront the dark fantasies and hidden desires that even he has never acknowledged. Traversing a landscape constructed of fear and impossibility, Barlow leads the reader through a stunning tale of delicious malevolence and dangerous desire. No reader will want to miss this unusual and compelling novel. HAMLET DREAMS earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-12-06
1316270:US	49693975	RJI69ROHFQUOS	1586978357	461722736	Magnolia House	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Romantic suspense filled with secrets and possibilities	Cindi Lynn comes to Magnolia House hoping to seek sanctuary. She has had surgery on her vocal cords, and her mother recently died from cancer. But her arrival heralds even more trouble with her father Jim Lynn going missing and presumed dead. Her father's mistress, gone to seek Jim in Columbia, also disappears. Furthermore, the house itself offers its own unique challenges with rumors of supernatural haunting.<br />Caretaker Dell Comeaux immediately finds himself drawn to Cindi. When he overhears a suspicious conversation between Jim Lynn's business partner and the cook, Dell begins to suspect the truth of the dangers lurking around Magnolia House and its occupants. Someone certainly seeks to drive Cindi away before she can learn the truth.<br />Author Lyn Lawrence deftly blends the romantic mystery of Louisiana with paranormal intrigue in MAGNOLIA HOUSE. Her descriptions of the house and its surroundings are downright seductive, even as her characters come vividly alive. Cindi's struggles to reconcile a painful history with her father to the place she now occupies results in a dynamic read, heightened by the electricity of romance and danger. The supernatural influence of ghosts and the Monster of Loggy Bayou add a fascinating tone to this chilling work. Richly developed and filled with secrets and possibilities, MAGNOLIA HOUSE comes highly recommended.	2002-12-05
1317648:US	49693975	R15DNGCFYFJA9X	1585710784	137883622	Southern Comfort (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	When opposites collide! Highly recommended	Ten years in the Army prepared Hardesty Arnaud's for gunfire and dead bodies, but it took a medal of honor to earn her way to becoming St. Martin's Police Chief. Unfortunately, the three patriarchs of the community seem to think they are in charge, able to ferret out anything, no matter how deeply buried. Hardesty knows they offered her the chief's job only because they could not turn her down. Now only two days on the job and Hardesty has a murder to solve. She quickly concludes that the body is a mob hit, and another missing man would have been the US Marshall assigned to protect him. The situation is potentially explosive.<br />Growing up in the ghetto and rescued by a miracle, Nick has made becoming the first black FBI director his career goal. Proud of his city ways, the overwhelming heat and humidity of Louisiana plagues him, as does the spitfire who blocks his investigation. Nick has spent the last five years putting the Patrini family out of operation. The dead man had been their lawyer, knowing everything from where the bodies were buried to the account numbers of the offshore bank accounts. Without the lawyer's testimony, Nick's investigation comes to nothing and the sexy small town cop presents an unwanted complication.<br />With nothing in common except a murder investigation, Hardesty and Nick clash in an exciting romantic thriller of the high caliber readers have come to expect from J.M. Jeffries. In SOUTHERN COMFORT opposites collide an entertaining romance as dangerous to the heart as it is the small town of St. Martin. The gritty policy procedural elements sharply contrast the growing relationship between Hardesty and Nick, resulting in a fast paced read impossible to put down. The richly created small town with its quirky citizens and old-fashioned values provides a powerful backdrop for intrigue and betrayal. SOUTHERN COMFORT comes highly recommended.	2002-12-04
1318222:US	49693975	R2IYFZUXCELTUS	0843951389	707616733	Whatever It Takes (Leisure Historical Romance)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Charming historical romance -- Highly recommended	Maddy Potter will do whatever it takes to gain custody of seven-year-old Katie. Friends have long encouraged her to put away the widow's weeds she has worn for the last seven years, but Maddy has vowed to never marry again. So she hires a proper gentleman to court her and leave her at the altar. Such a plan will provide the necessary respectability to see her through the adoption hearing in four weeks. When he arrives, however, Clayton Kincaid is too handsome and too potent for her comfort, making her wonder if the citizens of Pepper Cloud will believe he is sincerely interested in her.<br />Clay suspects that this honoring of a family debt is actually nothing more than another of his mother's matchmaking schemes. He arrives in Pepper Cloud a day early to catch Maddy unprepared. He finds her modeling a daring dress for a dressmaker, revealing her passionate nature. Clay agrees to court her for a few weeks, but refuses to allow her dictate every move he makes. Moreover, he has never met a woman so obviously immune to his charms. Furthermore, he worries that Barrows House might be an unfit place to raise a child. He certainly will not repay a debt of honor by compromising a child's future. <br />Author Winnie Griggs pens an engaging historical romance in WHATEVER IT TAKES. Maddy's eccentricities make her character sparkle, from her poker playing to her unorthodox housemates. Further, Maddy has long worn her widow's weeds as a shield of protection, but Clay's arrival blows away her carefully built walls. Indeed, Maddy's proper appearance conceals a marvelously free-spirited heroine, who has touch the right of touch of hoyden to make her truly interesting. Clay longs to release the slightly naughty woman from her self-imposed strictures. He also conceals a weakness that makes this powerful hero all too human. His sincere concern for Katie's well-being likewise brings his character vibrantly alive. In addition, the fun secondary cast brings the background to life, especially the Pepper Cloud Propriety Police. Indeed, rich characterizations complete with endearing vulnerabilities and emotional depth, will inevitably capture reader's hearts. Light hearted and entertaining, WHATEVER IT TAKES comes highly recommended.	2002-12-04
1323126:US	49693975	R2Z0NNAPW4M353	0373790686	290281344	A Man for the Night (Harlequin Blaze, No 64)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Fabulous story line -- Highly recommended	Josie Williams needs a date for her ten-year high school reunion. When she showed up five years ago, she came away with mortified memories of a night in tears. This time she intends to arrive with her boyfriend in tow, ready to sparkle and dazzle. Too bad she breaks up with her current boyfriend just before the reunion. At a friend's suggestion, she arranges an escort for the evening. When she meets, however, Josie's fantasies take flight, and she dreams of taking him home as her sex slave for the night.<br />Callum McCloud's younger brother makes big bucks escorting attractive women. But when his big break comes for his acting career, he is scheduled for a date with Josie. So he convinces his older brother to fill in. Callum did not expect such a sexy lady, and suddenly his libido kicks up to high. Now he is determined to fill every fantasy Josie has on her wish list. But more than lust brews in their heated encounter, and emotions will demonstrate a will of their own.<br />While A MAN FOR THE NIGHT may not offer the daring eroticism readers expect from the Blaze series, it does offer such a marvelous story that it merits reading. Author Miranda Lee delivers an Alpha male who does not hesitate to stick up for his lady. His battle ready attitude when they arrive at Josie's reunion reveals a knight in white armor with a heart of gold. Not only does he fill Josie's fantasies, but he will inspire some hot ones for readers as well. Josie's determination to lure him into bed, contract or no, demonstrates the modern, powerful woman readers delight in. A MAN FOR THE NIGHT comes highly recommended.	2002-11-30
1323671:US	49693975	R2C7IK9OPNHSET	0373710925	927431738	The Gift of Christmas (Harlequin Super Romance Anthology, No 1092)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Wonderful holiday collection -- Highly recommended	Harlequin Superromance has combined three uniquely creative tales to touch the heart at this holiday season. Each story offers something a little different, whether it is a family rediscovering the love that binds or the start of something new. THE GIFT OF CHRISTMAS comes highly recommended.<br />\\"Stuck with Each Other,\\" by Jan Freed: The Anderson household has grown apart, so Jim surprises them with an expensive skiing vacation just sixteen days before Christmas. Unfortunately, his wife Sharon resents being taken away from her new career without warning, and the children prefer to hang with friends rather going off with family. At Jim's insistence, they accept the opportunity, detouring by his father's mountain home before heading to the ski resort. Seeing the tension and bickering between adults and children, Grandpa arranges his own holiday surprise, hoping to remind them of the love they still share.<br />Freed's story will echo many readers' own lives with the stress and responsibility that tear this family apart. The Andersons are wonderful; Jim and Sharon have been married for a number of years, taking one another and their three children for granted without meaning to. The children react against absent and busy parents with bids for attention and outrageous behavior. A wonderful story of love and healing, \\"Stuck with Each Other\\" kicks this collection off with a bang!<br />\\"Undercover Santa\\" by Janice Kay Johnson: Sergeant Reed McCall might be wearing the padding and beard of Santa, but he feels more like Scrooge when he receives his undercover assignment. Someone threatens to kill a Santa, so as many cops as can be spared are assigned to Santa duty. When an armed man takes a woman and her son hostage, along with \\"Santa\\", they find themselves locked in a storeroom, discovering the magic of unexpected encounters. <br />Readers familiar with Johnson's marvelous stories of men in uniform will recognize her indelible style and unorthodox approach to the holidaysin \\"Undercover Santa.\\" For a cop that does not like kids, Reed will undergo a remarkable transformation that readers will treasure. Unexpected twists to the tale will both surprise and amuse readers, making \\"Undercover Santa\\" a delightful read. <br />\\"Epiphany\\" by Margot Early: Born to hearing impaired parents, Carmen Dinesen never felt accepted by her family and their world. When her parents died unexpectedly, Carmen took responsibility for her younger, hearing impaired sister, Bizzy. Now Bizzy wants only one thing for Christmas; she wants to adopt a wild mustang. Unfortunately, they do not fit in small apartments or small budgets. Then Chris Good Rider proposes marriage, providing a home and a mustang to fill Carmen and Bizzy's dreams. Too bad he does not profess love as well. <br />Author Margot Early paints a world most hearing people never consider, reversing roles so that it is the one who can hear who feels left out. Carmen's struggle with self-acceptance results in a unique kind of healing. Flaws suddenly become endearing, and with love anything becomes possible. Indeed, Early creates a beautiful world of wisdom, rich with heritage and love, for the holiday season.	2002-11-29
1325232:US	49693975	RJT2FHA0G0JLR	0373710976	69638689	My Three Girls : Count on a Cop (Harlequin Superromance No. 1097)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Five years ago Dana Ritchie virtually shut down her emotions after loosing a child. While he might not have been born of her body, the boy had been in her care long enough that he belonged in her heart. Dana left behind her teaching position to accept a new position in a remote town at a one-room school where she was both teacher and administrator. She learned to survive grief by ignoring it, working late hours until she falls into bed in exhaustion. Then one day a mother won't her accept refusal, leaving three young girls in Dana's care.<br />When the call regarding three abandoned girls comes, Deputy Brady Moore takes it; they are his nieces, although he hasn't seen them in years. His brother's imprisonment and divorce resulted in hostility from the girls' mother, even if Brady regularly deposits a rather large portion of his salary in her account for the girls' care. Too bad the money was misused and the girls neglected. When he discovers the condition of the house and their mother's suicide, Brady proposes to Dana. They might have known one another only for a few hours, but they both want to keep the children from foster care. Together will have to decide if a marriage of convenience can last forever. <br />Susan Floyd handles the difficult challenges and painful side of life with the finesse of a master in MY THREE GIRLS. From shopping at Wal-Mart and pierced ears to prison and suicide, Floyd lends her novel a strong sense of reality while maintaining the magic of love, whether it being a new romance, or reestablishing the connection between a parent and his child. Floyd's bold handling of the darker side of life lends a depth to the novel that is seldom glimpsed in series romance. Of all the marriage of convenience plots I have encountered, this is the most heart rendering and the most profound. A powerfully told tale that belongs on the keeper shelf, MY THREE GIRLS earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-11-27
1326911:US	49693975	R2JLJ1YO8JYYB2	1551669269	684240630	Behind the Mask (MIRA)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Adam Webster offers a million dollars for Michael Sullivan to find his wife Elisabeth and the disk she stole. Adam had groomed Elisabeth since she was fifteen for his private pleasure, and he intends to have her back. He has little regard for his missing son who monopolized his wife's attention, and has no qualms of disposing of the child. But he carefully guards his possessive streak and his hatred for his child from Michael.<br />Five years ago Michael abruptly resigned his position as a police officer in Houston following his partner's death. Michael holds himself responsible for Pete's death, believing that he could have prevented the tragedy. Consequently, he also provides financially for Pete's family, and a million dollars will go a long way to secure Pete's widow and son's futures. But when he finds Elisabeth, the facts do not match his preconceptions. <br />Elisabeth knows that behind Adam's mask of social perfection lurks a monster. In fear for her son's life, she fled her gilded cage, leaving Adam Webster his fabulous wealth far behind. But twice Adam's men have close to catching her, and Elisabeth cannot let her guard drop for even a moment. Not even for the handsome stranger who becomes her only chance for survival.<br />This richly textured plot keeps the pages turning quickly in Metsy Hingle's BEHIND THE MASK, as Elisabeth and Michael's traitorous emotions and savvy survival skills keep them alive. Each major character of the novel wears a mask: Adam wears a mask of respected businessman; Elisabeth wears a mask of beauty and little brains; and Michael wears a mask concealing his identity from the woman he falls in love with. Each possesses nuances and possibilities that none expect, and underestimating anyone can be deadly. These vividly realized characterizations and desperate motivations give BEHIND THE MASK a fascinating depth. Indeed, Hingle once again proves her consummate artistry as she paints her tale and her characters with vitality and verve. A riveting read that readers will find impossible to put down, BEHIND THE MASK earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-11-26
1330460:US	49693975	R1X3U74H3IMN1S	0373710933	887191788	Man with a Miracle : The Men of Maple Hill (Harlequin Superromance No. 1093)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Delightful holiday romance -- Highly recommended	A woman wielding a baseball bat surprises Evan Braga when he enters his office. Exhausted and overwhelmed from the previous sixteen hours, Beazie Deadham collapses after accusing Evan of murdering her boss. Before Evan came to Maple Hill and joined Whitcomb's Wonders, he had been a cop, and Beazie's startling appearance raises old intuition and training. As her boss lay dying in Beazie's arms he had entrusted her with a tape, warned her against cops, and told her to take the tape to Evans in Maple Hill. Beazie does not know if Evan is actually the man she is seeking, and she refuses to reveal the entire story until she is certain. <br />Evan bears his own burdens, especially an overwhelming sense of responsibility for his brother's death. He resigned the force in Boston and came to Maple Hill for healing. Although his family rallied around him following the accident that took his brother's life and severely injured him, Evan's guilt keeps him from feeling comfortable with them. With murders pursuing Beazie, he refuses to turn Beazie out to seek answers alone. Instead, he persuades her to stay with him for a while, posing as an old girlfriend. Then they realize that Beazie had dated Evan's brother, and his brother was somehow connected to Beazie's tape. <br />Purple hair and Christmas spirit combine in the delightful holiday romance MAN WITH A MIRACLE. While the subplot of danger and intrigue adds a decided note of tension to the novel, it the developing relationship between Beazie and Evan that remains center stage. Bezie's resourcefulness and determination never flag as she struggles to reconcile the events of the past with an unexpected present that unfolds in Maple Hill. Evan's need for self-forgiveness becomes the perfect holiday story, enriched by the beauty of a small community that loves the joys of the holiday. Family complications, holiday cooking and favorite Maple Hill residents make their appearances, lending this holiday tale their individual flavors. Alovely holiday read, MAN WITH A MIRACLE comes highly recommended.	2002-11-22
1330658:US	49693975	R1DAF9P7NSWI21	0595223583	774200165	19 1/2 Revelations	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Recommended	Moto arrives in New Orleans seeking his twin brother Abe, who had been born in a dumpster. Abe had come to New Orleans to apply for a job at the library. Unfortunately, they do not want to hire someone who likes to read, which is the problem they had with the last clerk. Moto finds his brother in children's section, about to be arrested due to a misunderstanding.<br />Once they are escorted from the building, they try to find Moto's car, but he had parked it on a carnaval route and it has been towed. They eventually track the car to where it has been towed, but it has been vandalized and is no longer drivable. The next several days proceed with such discordant incidents, including beed chasing, Moto being jailed after saving a girl's life, an underwear ball at a department store. <br />19 1/2 REVELATIONS mimics its carnvalistic background with a kalidoscope of odd incidents, happenstance, and revelations. As people continuously comment that these twin brothers look absolutely nothing alike, the reader becomes aware of their odd yet profound relationship. They seem to spend a lot of time losing each other, finding each other, and bailing one another out of trouble. Ultimately they become as finely defined as the detail within in the kalidoscope just before it shifts to form a new image. An unusual, yet compelling read, 19 1/2 REVELATIONS comes recommended.	2002-11-22
1331039:US	49693975	R3NUTTE61SZNP4	0373710941	362186330	Christmas on Snowbird Mountain (Harlequin Superromance No. 1094)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent holiday romance! Very highly recommended	Nine years of caring for her mother leaves Susannah Pelton longing to push the limits, to experience danger, to take life into her own hands. Unfortunately, the landing of her jump did not go very smoothly and now she wears a cast on her arm. Ironically, it is that cast and her flaming red hair that lets Ryan Whitepath know she is fulfillment of his grandmother's vision. His grandmother had said a redbird with a broken wing would bring healing to his wounded daughter.<br />Six-year-old Nia suffers from Separation Disorder, brought about by her mother's death to pancreatic cancer. Although the child had never lived with her mother in London, only visiting a half dozen times, Nia fears losing her father the same way she has lost her mother. Anxiety attacks and depression have replaced her vibrant personality. Then she meets Susannah, a woman who also suffered tremendous loss. But Susannah only plans to stay until Christmas, and it is up to Ryan to transform the temporary that into forever.<br />Author Fay Robinson's first Christmas book, CHRISTMAS ON SNOWBIRD MOUNTAIN with enthrall readers with her beauty and grace. Robinson displays rare qualities among series romance, where novels are often read and quickly, and just as quickly forgotten. She writes with the beauty of a poet, drawing the reader into a world of imagination bidding them to linger in entrancing possibilities. Susannah's life goals will charm readers, and provides the perfect introduction to Ryan. Robinson pays respective homage to the Indian customs and legends, lending the novel a rich background that proves mesmerizing. CHRISTMAS ON SNOWBIRD MOUNTAIN comes very highly recommended.	2002-11-22
1332965:US	49693975	RMIGV19RKCMW8	1585421855	443903654	My Father's Ghost	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A poignant and honest memoir -- Very highly recommended	Suzy McKee Charnas always had a difficult relationship with her father Robin McKee who walked out when she was eight. Robin left behind 40 black bound journals containing mostly left-wing political ranting and long discussions on painters and paint, along with an occasional wisecrack. From her few childhood memories, thoughts gleaned from the journals, and the time from when Robin was 63 until his death at 81, Charnas constructs a haunting memoir. MY FATHER'S GHOST becomes a reflective, honest, and at times painful account of the journey from aging to dying.<br />Robin eked out a living in Greenwich Village maintaining sporadic contact with his children. He was a man of extraordinary intelligence who had lived in true Bohemian poverty. Indeed, Robin sacrificed all for his good taste and artistic talent even while his career was unsuccessful. Then one day during a phone call with Charnas, Robin indicates that he is going blind. His daughter encourages him to retire, moving him to Albuquerque, New Mexico to live in a nearby \\"in-law\\" cottage. It seemed like a golden opportunity to get her lost father back -- a second chance for a father-daughter relationship. <br />Charnas weathers the difficulties of living close to an aging parent with grace. She struggles with meals, housekeeping, and personal hygiene, and she worries over health issues and finances. During the first half of the book, her father coexists nearby, but the second half of the book confronts the inevitable deteriorating health and nursing homes. Throughout the memoir, Charnas recounts challenges, the pain, and the guilt of coping with an aging parent. Surprisingly, Robin finds his own second chances when he moves into a nursing home, lending the conclusion unexpected beauty and hope.<br />Having had my own difficult relationship with a father who absented himself early in life, I read Charnas with eagerness and sympathy as she confronts the inevitable challenges of piecing together a relationship built mostly of hope and a few bedraggled memories. The contradictions of Robin's personality can prove both incredibly aggravating and highly amusing. Charnas weaves together excerpts from her father's journals and their shared story with remarkable skill, resulting in an absorbing narrative that readers will find enthralling. MY FATHER'S GHOST comes very highly recommended.	2002-11-20
1333525:US	49693975	R2T2Z4ZA5YDLLG	0821772783	559837700	A Bicycle Built for Two: Meet Me at the Fair (Zebra Ballad Romance)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Another sparkling historical romance by Alice Duncan	Wealthy Alex English intends to make the World's Columbian Exposition Agricultural Forum a success. When a man almost strangles his daughter who works there, his sensibilities rebel. His attempts to dismiss Kate Finney are thwarted by his partners, who remind him that integrity and honor come in various packages.<br />With her mother dying of consumption, Kate works two jobs to support her family. Alex's outrageous judgment offends her, and she finds his odd interest in her and her family unnerving. She has fought the image of a cheap slum girl all of her life, and she does not hesitate to use a strong offence for her defense. Indeed, her strong spirit dazzles Alex and manages to break through his looming fussiness and cold judgments.<br />Alice Duncan's mesmerizing voice sparkles in A BICYCLE BUILT FOR TWO. Opposites clash as Kate and Alex struggle to overcome their mutual prejudices. Kate assumes Alex as born with a silver spoon his mouth, underestimating the incredible hard work he has devoted to rebuilding his family's fortunes. Alex assumes a workingwoman who engages in fortune telling and Egyptian dancing must be a harlot. Set during an exciting period of American history filled with new discoveries and inventions, Duncan infuses her novel with the strengths and the struggles of the era. A dramatic subplot tempers the novel with the tragedies that confront ordinary people, thereby balancing the amusing with the tragic. A BICYCLE BUILT FOR TWO comes highly recommended.	2002-11-20
1334397:US	49693975	R1Z0SWDRBNJG9L	0373710895	44089509	A Captain's Honor : In Uniform (Harlequin Superromance No. 1089)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Intriguing military romance -- Highly recommended	From the first glimpse, Captain Nathan Fordham knew he was in trouble with Chief Warrant Officer Rachel Southwell who \\"dazzled him with her contradictions and intrigued him with her complexity.\\" But there is no time for romance on this assignment. Working in conjunction with his brother, a Criminal Investigation Division major, Nate has a plan. He needs a woman without fear to make her vulnerable and with the strength to go after the big brass. He knows that Major General Walter Cornelius Donner must be stopped before he destroys another woman under his command with his sexual harassment.<br />Rachel can outrun, out think, and out motivate almost any man in the Army. She willing accepts the most difficult assignment at the Pentagon in exchange for an opportunity to be closer to the son she left behind when she enlisted. With his life threatening asthma, Rachel needs to get him listed as dependent quickly. Rachel knows that failure on this assignment will end her career. With the growing attraction to Nate, she needs the assignment resolved just as quickly. Unfortunately, the general and a mysterious stalker are not above using her vulnerabilities to their own advantage. <br />Author Elizabeth Ashtree pens a powerful tale of honor in the military with A CAPTAIN'S HONOR. Women who have endured sexual harassment will find themselves impressed by Ashtree's careful rendering of such a devastating crime. Unfortunately, the secondary plot of stalking detracts from the power of the narrative. Nevertheless, Rachel's struggles to cope with such a challenging assignment will keep the pages turning. Nate's ambivalence over his role in bringing her into such a difficult situation will likewise strike a sympathetic cord with readers. A memorable military romance, A CAPTAIN'S HONOR comes highly recommended.	2002-11-19
1335033:US	49693975	R1X82TZJDFOPCK	0446611107	632431094	The Rogue	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Powerful medieval drama - Highly recommended	A portent arrives in the form of a raven, and Ysabella of Kinfairlie is not surprised when her estranged husband appears. Their two week marriage ended when she fled after learning Merlyn peddles religious relics when she had believed his livelihood was in textiles. She could not live with his crimes. Five years have passed since those glorious two weeks, and now Ysabella brews ale to support her sister and brother. After an explosive encounter, he leaves, only for word to come the following day of his death. <br />Ysabella inherits her husband's estate, Ravensmuir. During her first night in the keep, Ysabella dreams of making love with Meryln. When she awakens with proof of their passion, Ysabella seeks answers. Merlyn confesses to staging his demise because someone seeks to kill him. He hopes to flush out his aggressor by giving Ysabella his property. Merlyn demands her trust even while withholding all the information she demands. Somewhere within the keep lies a treasure men will kill for.<br />Clair Delacroix pens an intriguing medieval romance with THE ROUGUE. Delacroix demonstrates a remarkable creative flair with THE ROGUE as it vividly creates a marvelous fourteenth century tale. Her vividly realized characters create a fabulous world of fierce loyalty and dangerous betrayal. Ysabella's five years of struggle to provide for her family, thereby clinging to her moral and ethical values despite starvation and deprivation proves her a powerful heroine. Her common background and lack of education and breeding sharply contrasts the laird of Ravensmuir, even as they are spiritually matched. While the choice of a first person narrative distances readers from the roguish hero, it also adds a beguiling sense of immediacy. THE ROGUE comes highly recommended.	2002-11-19
1336120:US	49693975	R21XIUW673UU37	0972334610	7342978	Dropping the God Bomb 2.0	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very highly recommended	Protesters wait outside of Greg Plummer's office objecting to his publicly negative comments concerning the teaching of creationism in public schools. A scientist who has devoted his life to evolutionary study, Greg has no tolerance for bible thumpers. Even an invitation to Buffalo and a conference that offers tantalizing proof that God had a hand in creation does not dissuade Greg's staunch defense of science. <br />Also present at the conference is Reverend Frye, a man whose once sincere service to his ministry has devolved to self-serving profit. Reverend Fry has founded a political organization for the purpose of encouraging teaching of creationism in public schools. He is as prepared to accept the evidence presented at the conference, as Greg is to deny it. Between these extremes lie the rational thoughts of people like Greg's wife Debbie and his best friend Billy who provide a unique view regarding creationism and evolution. <br />Science and religion clash in a book profoundly relative to all readers in DROPPING THE GOD BOMB. The argument between creationism and evolution becomes a springboard for compelling examination of relationships and deeply held beliefs. I initially found myself incredibly put off by the hero's abrasive behavior and manners. But somewhere along the way, I began to understand his irritability and frustration, not to mention his profound need for healing and redemption. Indeed, redemption proves to be a powerful motive for all the major players of the novel, though not necessarily just in the biblical sense as characters come face to face with their past mistakes and their need for self honesty and self forgiveness. Tempered with a fair dose of humor and plenty of fuel for thought, DROPPING THE GOD BOMB comes very highly recommended.	2002-11-18
1339322:US	49693975	R2951WMM276HZ2	0821772740	397030832	Fool Me Twice (Happily Ever After Co)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A delightful historical romance -- Highly recommended	A disastrous engagement leaves Jack Ryerson determined to never again avail himself of the professional matchmaking services of Russell Braddock. Now Braddock seeks to match him with a different sort of proposal. Trinity Standish must find a businessman to save her inheritance and a husband to fulfill her grandfather's will or she will loose her ranch. With a household of women, sisters and a cousin he is raising, Jack has no desire to add another woman to the collection. However, the businessman side of him cannot help but be intrigued by the challenge of saving Trinity's ranch.<br />Trinity expects an squinty-eyed accountant, not a bold cowboy covered in dust. She only wants to save her inheritance, and then earn enough profit to trace her father's footsteps the world over, seeing exotic locations described so many years ago in her father's letters. In contrast to Jack, she has no interest raising children, though she finds he acceptance of such responsibility admirable. Yet she suddenly finds the idea of temporary marriage exciting when she meets Jack. Too bad Jack seems incredibly determined to find a loophole out of marriage while still retaining possession of the ranch. <br />Author Kate Donovan pens a lighthearted romp that conceals a surprising dark side in FOOL ME TWICE. With her characteristic flair, she creates a heroine with spirit and sass, and a hero who deserves such style. Trinity cannot help feeling intrigued by Jack despite his determination to maintain his distance. Jack does not realize that she slowly wears away his resistance with her undeniable passion. Their shared sensuality underlies every encounter, and their repartee and the intrinsic charm of the entire story will win reader's hearts. The secondary plot concerning Russell's cousin proves a powerful counterpoint to the novel. Indeed, Donovan's tale personifies the greatest strengths of the Zebra Ballad line with her marvelous characterizations and surprising plot. Readers will truly misssuch talent next year with the demise of the Ballad line, and can only hope such talent finds a voice in the Zebra Historical Romance line. FOOL ME TWICE comes highly recommended.	2002-11-15
1339852:US	49693975	R3S8EGFMIUXDE1	1894841867	779313910	Rock 'N Roll Fantasy	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Dynamic and playful -- Very highly recommended	Selfish and vain, the narrator considers a life of wealth and privileges her due until a book on the Tarot transforms her life. Her clairvoyant aunt left the hand-written and richly illustrated tarot guide, but the narrator considers it useless in its musty, dustiness. After all, nothing that is not new, ultra modern, and expensive has value. Indeed, this superficial rich kid freaks when a nail breaks or her hair isn't perfectly coifed. <br />While waiting for her date to pick her up, the narrator dozes off under a tree with the book on tarot in her hands. Condescending and skeptical of the tarot, she doesn't know she's about to receive a first hand lesson. The narrator awakens to a stranger's nudge. Feeling a bit like Rip Van Winkle, she accepts the card the man offers: The Fool. When she looks around, the surreal landscape reveals no indication of civilization. Indeed, the land lacks telephone polls, McDonald's or cars. So begins an extraordinary odyssey of discovery where each stage of the journey is marked by a lesson from the tarot.<br />Fairytales, mythology, rock 'n roll, and the tarot blend in this fantastically eclectic montage shimmering with wisdom and humor. Rat-tail stew, underground monsters, and vicious Amazon women all come to play in a surreal and fantastic journey revealing an amazing imagination on the part of the author. A rock star represents each player in the major Arcana, and the dialogue includes lighthearted references to hundreds of lyrics. For those of us that are somewhat illiterate of rock 'n roll, however, the dialogue and characterizations are no less enchanting. Playful and dynamic, ROCK 'N ROLL FANTASY comes very highly recommended.	2002-11-14
1340745:US	49693975	R15GPXSVKMUZNL	0312243022	785940945	The Hours: A Novel	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	THE HOURS begins with the gifted author, poet and visionary Virginia Woolf drowning herself rather than facing another period of madness. The subsequent text entwines three narrative paths: Virginia Woolf as she writes MRS DALLOWAY during the 1920s; California housewife Mrs. Laura Brown whose favorite book is MRS DALLOWAY during the 1940s; and book editor Mrs. Clarissa Vaughan, nicknamed \\"Mrs. Dalloway\\" in the 1950s. Three women, three different timeframes, all bound together in a shimmering conclusion that is destined to haunt the reader long after the last page is turned. <br />Clarissa Vaughan plans a party for her friend Richard, who has just won a major literary award for his poetry. Housewife Laura Brown struggles to find more meaning to her life than a simple existence than just as a wife and as a mother. The text brilliantly exposes their psyches, capturing the subtle nuances and flavors with a graceful pen; thereby exploring the contradictions and compromises that create our existence; deftly detailing fluidity of time and existence. <br />While mass-market readers may be a bit baffled by THE HOURS, literary scholars and classics lovers will adore it. Readers who bring a through knowledge of Virginia Woolf, a love of her novel MRS DALLOWAY, and an appreciation of the poetry of language will discover an amazing gift of beauty within this finely woven novel. Indeed, Virginia Woolf scholars will recognize the influence of ORLANDO, THE WAVES and A ROOM OF ONE'S OWN, as well as MRS DALLOWAY. In addition, admirers of the beauty of language will be stunned by Cunningham's ability to capture Woolf's voice and style in her sections, to flavor it with his own voice in the Clarissa Dalloway's sections, and then to exhibit his own unique voice and style in the Laura Brown's sections. A memorable novel to treasure, THE HOURS earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-11-14
1342673:US	49693975	R1DD5Z0HDQIZ3G	1591090547	982477634	The Pinecroft Thoroughbreds	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very highly recommended	In 1974, seventy-one year old Caitlin Cleary narrates her purported memoirs about living at Pine Barrens, or Pinelands, located in southern New Jersey. Her powerful narrative voice immediately establishes her as an eccentric, thoughtful, authoritative woman who promises to \\"tell it like it is.\\" <br />As a young girl, Caitlin dreamed of become a jockey, but the door of opportunity was not yet open to young women. So it seems only appropriate that Caitlin would marry wealthy American Charlie Kendall, thereby becoming a member of the \\"Horsey Set\\". She immigrates to America with her new husband, bringing her socially ambitious brother Eamonn with her to Pinecroft, Charlie's estate in the New Jersey Pine Barrens. <br />Just before her marriage, Caitlin's father expresses his single misgiving. Charlie refuses to discuss his family at any length. Upon her arrival in America, Caitlin will learn the dark secrets of Charlie's family, which will soon threaten to overshadow her own happiness. But the secrets of the past are only a part of the dreadful events that create chaos in the lives of the residents at Pinecroft.<br />THE PINECROFT THOROUGHBREDS is an intricately woven tapestry of finely created emotions. The novel is filled with fierce intensity and naked vulnerability, thickly wrapped with reflection, regret and possibility. The carefully measured prose maintains a cautious tension, keeping the weave even and intriguing even as events strip away a beautiful surface to reveal ugly secrets. Moreover, the background of the New Jersey Pinelands, together with the scent of sunlight and shadow, intertwine in a novel that entrances the reader. Secondary characters provide a varied and textured background, rich with conflict. An incredible and touching read, THE PINECROFT THOROUGHBREDS by Selwyn Anne Grames comes very highly recommended.	2002-11-12
1345088:US	49693975	R2VK3FOF13MDJ2	0515133701	934732972	The Perfect Victim	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Riveting romantic suspense -- Very highly recommended	Addison Fox needs a private detective to help with her stalled inquiry into the identity of her birth parents. Her appointment leads to the office of Jack Talbot. But instead of Jack, she meets younger brother Randall who happens to be quite inebriated and suffering from a case of mistaken identity. Angered, she subsequently lodges a complaint with the Better Business Bureau against Talbot Investigations.<br />An apology brings Randall to Addison's coffee shop three weeks later. Then when an invader breaks in through the back, Jack saves her life. While the police do not link the shooting to her biological mother's murder three weeks ago, Randall cannot help being suspicious. Later Addison finds her lawyer murdered, and Randall proves her adoptive parent's death was not an accident. Encumbered by their growing attraction and at a loss as the reason for the murders surrounding her, Addison and Jack must move quickly to find answers or they will not live long enough to explore their growing feelings. <br />Author Linda Castillo first made a name for herself penning edgy romantic suspense for Harlequin. Now she leaps from series romance to her first single title release with THE PERFECT VICTIM, penning a riveting romantic suspense that promises grand things from this rising star. Addison's idealized upbringing does not prepare her for the harsh realities her investigation sets into motion, but she meets the challenges with courage and fortitude. Her inauspicious beginning with Randall sets up a complicated hero with a dark past. Consequently, the perfectly balanced mix of complex relationships, deadly secrets, and the ultimate treachery make THE PERFECT VICTIM perfectly addictive. Very highly recommended.	2002-11-10
1345359:US	49693975	R2M3CZG6WDCAGJ	0312278586	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	I've worked for these people! Very highly recommended	A graduate student, Nanny seeks part time work so she can complete her thesis and graduate. When a chance encounter in the park leads to Mrs. X, Nanny thinks she has found the perfect position. Then she learns the truth hiding behind the Park Avenue facade. Mrs. X is too busy having her nails done and shopping to clean her own home or spend time with her own child.<br />When the Xes marriage disintegrates, its their child who suffers. Mr. X's absences and affairs have profound effects. Mrs. X's anger and depression likewise damages her child, leaving Nanny to cope with the results. Certainly, she could find another job. But her heart belongs with her young charge. Late checks, long hours, and rude behavior take the back seat to a wonderful, needy four-year-old.<br />Those of us with professional child care experience, especially in the private sector of the wealthy and privileged, will laugh, cry and sympathize with THE NANNY DIARIES. The authors admit to drawing upon their combined experiences to create fictional characters, yet every story echoes my own experience from the competitiveness of private education to the deprived pantries. Certainly exaggeration makes a good story better, but the nuggets of truth allow THE NANNY DIARIES touch the heart. Yes, I've walked out a client's home in tears after listen to arguments never intended for mine or the children's ears. Yes, I've been asked to do many duties that went way beyond the contract and pay of ten dollars an hour. Yes, many clients are gems. But the ones who are not live in one's memory forever -- and make a powerful story! Consequently, THE NANNY DIARIES comes very highly recommended.	2002-11-10
1345435:US	49693975	REJCIWGVD8S7W	0312278586	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	I've worked for these people! Very highly recommended	A graduate student, Nanny seeks part time work so she can complete her thesis and graduate. When a chance encounter in the park leads to Mrs. X, Nanny thinks she has found the perfect position. Then she learns the truth hiding behind the Park Avenue facade. Mrs. X is too busy having her nails done and shopping to clean her own home or spend time with her own child.<br />When the Xes marriage disintegrates, its their child who suffers. Mr. X's absences and affairs have profound effects. Mrs. X's anger and depression likewise damages her child, leaving Nanny to cope with the results. Certainly, she could find another job. But her heart belongs with her young charge. Late checks, long hours, and rude behavior take the back seat to a wonderful, needy four-year-old.<br />Those of us with professional child care experience, especially in the private sector of the wealthy and privileged, will laugh, cry and sympathize with THE NANNY DIARIES. The authors admit to drawing upon their combined experiences to create fictional characters, yet every story echoes my own experience from the competitiveness of private education to the deprived pantries. Certainly exaggeration makes a good story better, but the nuggets of truth allow THE NANNY DIARIES touch the heart. Yes, I've walked out a client's home in tears after listen to arguments never intended for mine or the children's ears. Yes, I've been asked to do many duties that went way beyond the contract and pay of ten dollars an hour. Yes, many clients are gems. But the ones who are not live in one's memory forever -- and make a powerful story! Consequently, THE NANNY DIARIES comes very highly recommended.	2002-11-10
1345766:US	49693975	R3EC935DSGYZJB	0312278586	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	5	9	11	N	N	I've worked for these people! Very highly recommended	A graduate student, Nanny seeks part time work so she can complete her thesis and graduate. When a chance encounter in the park leads to Mrs. X, Nanny thinks she has found the perfect position. Then she learns the truth hiding behind the Park Avenue facade. Mrs. X is too busy having her nails done and shopping to clean her own home or spend time with her own child.<br />When the Xes marriage disintegrates, its their child who suffers. Mr. X's absences and affairs have profound effects. Mrs. X's anger and depression likewise damages her child, leaving Nanny to cope with the results. Certainly, she could find another job. But her heart belongs with her young charge. Late checks, long hours, and rude behavior take the back seat to a wonderful, needy four-year-old.<br />Those of us with professional child care experience, especially in the private sector of the wealthy and privileged, will laugh, cry and sympathize with THE NANNY DIARIES. The authors admit to drawing upon their combined experiences to create fictional characters, yet every story echoes my own experience from the competitiveness of private education to the deprived pantries. Certainly exaggeration makes a good story better, but the nuggets of truth allow THE NANNY DIARIES touch the heart. Yes, I've walked out a client's home in tears after listen to arguments never intended for mine or the children's ears. Yes, I've been asked to do many duties that went way beyond the contract and pay of ten dollars an hour. Yes, many clients are gems. But the ones who are not live in one's memory forever -- and make a powerful story! Consequently, THE NANNY DIARIES comes very highly recommended.	2002-11-10
1348094:US	49693975	R2PNA0TIIQYFWL	037371095X	887013625	Together by Christmas (Harlequin Superromance No. 1095)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Olds flames and new loves -- Very highly recommended	Video biographer Miranda James promises to bring back the goods on the illusive Warren Addison, author of WHERE IT BEGAN. They grew up together, although Miranda's high school fantasies centered on another boy by the name of Chad English. The quest for interviews for the biography with Warren leads to a return to her small hometown of Chatsworth. An enigma, Warren proves to be better than ever at creating uncomfortable, unsettled feelings in Miranda. And after seeing him again, her enthusiasm for the project increased exponentially.<br />Against his better judgment, Warren agrees to be interviewed if only to spend time with Miranda. She has no idea how he fantasized about her when they were teenagers. But Warren cannot help feeling a twinge of disappointment that Miranda comes not to see her old schoolmate, but to see Warren Addison, the famous author. Nevertheless, Warren sees extraordinary qualities in Miranda, things she does not even recognize in herself, and he cannot resist her allure even when he knows she has feelings for someone else. <br />C. J. Carmichael pens a marvelous character driven romance in TOGETHER BY CHRISTMAS. With her characteristic flair for tackling difficult, emotion-laden issues, Carmichael presents Miranda with a difficult choice between the man of her fantasies and new opportunities. On the surface, Miranda leads a successful life, but beneath the surface she feels terribly lonely. Her beauty and style conceal a woman who still struggles with insecurities and fear of failure. Yet she is a strong, powerful woman who works hard for what she wants. Further, the only man she ever wanted married someone else. <br />The emotional complexities of TOGETHER BY CHRISTMAS an endearing honesty. Every character is likeable, flawed, and appealing at their best or at their worst. Indeed, Carmichael maintains a careful control with the narrative, gracefully examining the painful emotional complications of olds flames and new loves without allow angst to spin out of control. A delicate balancing act indeed! TOGETHER BY CHRISTMAS comes very highly recommended.	2002-11-07
1348475:US	49693975	R2XTCIOB9SUA55	0373790678	455187283	Naughty but Nice: Bare Essentials (Harlequin Blaze, No 63)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Written with the grace of a poet -- Very highly recommended	The small town of Pleasantville, Ohio judges the Tremaine family harshly as bastards and tramps -- deservedly so for every Tremaine except Cassie Tremaine Montgomery. So the boulder on Cassie's shoulder is certainly understandable. After all, she has had it proven, from high school forward, that all men can be turned to slaves by their penises. Ten years after her departure, Cassie returns to Pleasantville to settle old scores while tending to business.<br />Sheriff Sean Taggart does not hesitate to issue two tickets in two days to the famous lingerie model. Cassie immediately dismisses the sexy cop; after all, a cop uniform and sheriff's badge could never interest her. Tag likewise does not believe he could fall for this tempting goddess. He believes that he is done with trouble and high maintenance. But then the taste of her reminds him of forbidden passion, and the \\"promise of head-banging, toe-curling sex,\\" and Tag surely finds out how much he does want this anti-authority woman. <br />Jill Shalvis displays the soul of a poet with her deft pen, creating a powerful atmosphere in only two sentences: \\"Pleasantville had a scent she'd never forgotten. It smelled like broken dreams and fear.\\" Such description makes the reader incredibly sympathetic and tolerant of Cassie, despite her bad attitude and terrible suspicion. As she learns the truth behind a few of the town citizens, such as the librarian who always lurked nearby when she was teen, Cassie softens her hard disposition, learning to look beneath surfaces. Furthermore, Cassie's diary from high school provides poignant insight into this wounded character, and her driving need to succeed. Tag's powerful, sexy presence is just the hero this damaged woman needs, and the substance of every woman's fantasy. An endearing, sensual treat, NAUGHTY BUT NICE comes very highly recommended.	2002-11-07
1348750:US	49693975	R1QY5EVRJZUV29	0373764758	814780363	A Lawman In Her Stocking	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Wonderful Christmas story -- Highly recommended	Tranquility's newest resident, Brenna Montgomery, does not appreciate Uncle Phillip's traditional welcome. His unexpected kiss took her by surprise, and Brenna finds offense in such aggressive behavior. Worse, when she complains to Sheriff Dylan Chandler, he does not seem to take her concern terribly seriously. In addition, Brenna finds it virtually impossible to explain her problem while being distracted by wild and dangerous sheriff she found swinging from the firehouse ceiling and wearing gear that heightens in his attractiveness.<br />Dylan does not initially admit that the kissing bandit Pete is his uncle and has been greeting new residents similarly for forty years. Furthermore, Dylan has had his fill previously of big-city girls who wanted to change Tranquility, and he refuses to allow yet another one to wreck havoc on himself or the town he protects. But when he finds himself trapped between a battle of the sexes over the city's main thoroughfare, Dylan will have more than his extreme attraction to Brenna to cope with.<br />From their first encounter, Dylan and Brenna dazzle readers with their chemistry in A LAWMAN IN HER STOCKING. Brenna and Dylan's story provides charming reading for the holiday season, strongly backed up with a marvelous secondary cast as Brenna's Grandma and Dylan's Uncle Pete add amusement and surprises of their own in this Christmas treat. Tuesday night poker, Christmas decorations, and a love for chocolate smoothly combine in a highly recommended read.	2002-11-07
1348923:US	49693975	R3G7HJ3FXTCSK6	037379066X	241970109	Naturally Naughty: Bare Essentials (Harlequin Blaze, No 62)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Seductive and intoxicating - Very highly recommended	Jilted on her prom night, Kate Jones trudges home bearing the scandal of her name and the pain of rejection. When she arrives home she realizes her mother is having an affair with the town's mayor, thereby completing her night's disillusionment. So she and cousin Cassie make a list of their goals that will turn the town of Pleasantville, Ohio on its ear. Ten years later they make their dreams come true with Bare Essentials, a store that caters to a woman's most intimate needs. In addition, Kate gains the opportunity to seduce and destroy the son of the mayor.<br />Jack Winfield, son of the mayor, cannot wait to return to Chicago. His mother's tears and his sister's theatrics in the wake of his father's death only reinforce his need for escape. As he wanders the streets of Pleasantville, however, Jack catches a glimpse of Kate, and determinedly refuses to let an opportunity pass; together they find unexpected attraction and opportunity. Fortunately, they both now live in Chicago and connect there. Unfortunately, neither he nor Kate initially recognizes their unlikely family connection in Pleasantville. But circumstances will throw them back together proving that they are both naturally naughty.<br />Being bad has never been so much fun as in Leslie Kelly's NATURALLY NAUGHTY. A risqué romp on the wild side, NATURALLY NAUGHTY's wonderful, wicked playfulness satisfies! On one hand, Kate's believes she can never risk trust and vulnerability to fall in love, believing vibrators to be a whole lot safer! On the other hand, Sexy, confident Jack is just the kind of hero romance readers expect, with his appeal to the senses. And he loves the naughtiness Kate conceals beneath her cool demeanor. Their time together in the abandoned theater will make reader's toes curl! Indeed, once again Leslie Kelly proves her deft gift for penning romantic tales brimming with scorching sensuality. Very highly recommended.	2002-11-07
1348938:US	49693975	R3F8KNJS72FDYL	1590250176	362580590	Heir Apparent: A Pinnacle Peak Mystery	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Nothing's apparent in this twisting mystery!	When his law firm downsizes, Joe McGuiness worries none of the other firms in town might accept him. An average student, this opportunity had been a godsend. His girl friend, on the other hand, is ready to celebrate his possible layoff, longing to move to San Diego where he can accept a position with her father. Although he narrowly escapes the threat of layoff, Joe soon has much bigger concerns.<br />A rodeo accident left Joe's horse dead and his shoulder severely injured. He returns to riding to participate in a team-roping event with Reilly, his best buddy since law school. Unfortunately, rodeo does not compete with the glittery world his girl friend would prefer, making Mia Ortiz that much more attractive when he meets her. Their immediate connection and common interests seem promising, until they return from their first date and she is arrested for murder.<br />Twist Phelan brings her deft skill of resolving complexities in the courtroom to her first novel, HEIR APPARENT. Her background as a lawyer and as an athlete lend HEIR APPARENT a convincing reality even as she weaves a tale filled with surprising twists and convolutions. The novel begins at a measured pace, creating a world that cleverly overlaps the world of a law firm with the world of rodeo cowboys. Rich characterizations provide an abundance of suspects that will keep readers guessing. Especially memorable are Joe's first girl friend with the perfect white tennis shoes, Trudy who wears politically incorrect t-shirts to work, and lawyer Jerry Dan who argues the Doppler effect as an excuse for running a red light. Very highly recommended.	2002-11-07
1348955:US	49693975	R1WNNANNUBY46F	0373272561	441269777	A Cry in the Night (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1186)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Emotionally complex -- Highly recommended	A deadly firewall moves through the Rocky Mountains, threatening a lost four-year-old boy. A simple accident had separated him from his mother Kelly Malone. Now she must ask the help of the best search and rescue worker she knows, Buzz, her ex-husband. But she never told him that they share a child. Seeing Buzz again makes Kelly realize that she had never gotten him out of her system. <br />Buzz made it clear that he never wanted children, even when it destroyed his marriage. Kelly's revelations leaves him stunned, and he knows that he must keep his dark and volatile emotions under check if he is to find his son. Worse, he knows that if he gives in to the impulse to offer Kelly comfort, he opens a door he had worked very hard to close, no matter what lies on the other side. <br />Author Linda Castillo creates an emotionally complex romantic suspense in A CRY IN THE NIGHT. As Kelly and Buzz listen for a cry in the night, the voice of their lost child, they confront the pain of the past and tentative hope for the future in every glance and every touch. Their child's periodic point of view adds an entrancing innocence that sharply juxtaposes the dangers of him wandering lost and alone in the wilderness. A compelling novel that readers will find impossible to put down, A CRY IN THE NIGHT comes highly recommended.	2002-11-07
1349030:US	49693975	RLQRHY0WW24ZS	037324505X	721865697	What a Woman Wants (Silhouette Special Edition, No 1505)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Eleven months ago her husband Erick died in the line of duty, leaving Darby Parker alone to raise their twins. Darby boldly faces life head on, with all its unpredictable and mystifying possibilities. So when she learns of her pregnancy, the first thing she does to march right over the Sheriff's office and share the need to know information.<br />Eleven months ago his best friend died, leaving John Sparks bereft. He was so used to thinking of Darby as Erick's wife that he has not gotten used to the idea of her being free, although that was not enough to stop what happened three months ago. Now he feels like Judas. Moreover, Darby makes John long for things he did not even know he wanted. So when he learns he will be a father, a marriage proposal seems quite appropriate. Too bad she turns him down, again and again.<br />WHAT A WOMAN WANTS demonstrates writing team Tori Carrington at their best with these marvelous created characterizations readers will treasure. Often authors fall into the trap of making the previous marriage less than perfect, thereby excusing their character's quick jump into love. Carrington makes it a point that Erick loved Darby deeply, and it was only her insecurity as to the reason he married that mars her memories. Darby's deep-seated fear that Erick married her only because she was pregnant comes full circle when life presents her with another pregnancy and proposal. In addition, John's transformation from bachelor to man in love is both fun and endearing as he discovers his new emotions and desires overcome all reticence toward marriage. Further complicating the mix, Darby's children love John dearly, but only as \\"Uncle Sparky.\\" They believe their daddy is coming home, and John's new attention to their mother provokes some rather outrageous behavior. This tender, joyful read earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-11-07
1350285:US	49693975	R23BJQQ97NJP9D	0804119775	612131783	Midnight Rain	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Compelling romantic suspense - Very highly recommended	A bullet leaves Jonathan Brighton a changed man. Armani suits no longer fit his personality, emotional responses shift, memories blur or are erased. Now he calls himself John and plans to return to Guardian, a computer security firm he founded. But during his six-month absence, customers no longer trust the company and friendships give way to quests for power. Worse, John cannot remember his past well enough to defend himself from accusations of murder. The only bright spot is the physical therapist provided by his insurance company.<br />In the six years she has worked for the bureau, Kathleen \\"Katie\\" Cavanaugh has never been attracted to a target until now. Three months of desk duty following an assignment gone wrong leaves her ready to prove she never lost her edge. But this new undercover assignment as John's physical therapist leaves her questioning her loyalties, her purpose, and her sanity. A chameleon accustomed to loosing herself in her undercover roles, Katie suddenly longs to explore their soul deep connections. <br />Author Dee Davis creates a powerful story of love, betrayal and murder in MIDNIGHT RAIN. The connection between Jonathan and Katie leaves them both breathless even as it threatens his freedom and her career. Once again Davis demonstrates her deft talent of creating a multilayer plot with meticulous care as tiny details and inferences are used to great effect. With plenty of characters to love and hate, abundant suspects and a generous number of red herrings, MIDNIGHT RAIN will satisfy discerning lovers of romantic suspense.	2002-11-06
1350542:US	49693975	R2I9W8KB2YB94O	0970543816	854908469	Athena and Eden: The Hidden Meaning of the Parthenon's East Faade.	Books	5	10	16	N	N	Fabulous new source for reflection - Very highly recommended	The focus of Greek civilization, the Parthenon captures viewers imaginations even as it conceals its true meaning. In his ground breaking work, Robert Bowie Johnson, Jr. author of ATHENA AND EDEN: THE HIDDEN MEANING OF THE PARTHENON'S EAST FACADE demonstrates that when Athena is seen to be Eve, then Greek mythology becomes narrative art. Consequently, the marble sculptures on the east pediment of the Parthenon relate the story of the origin of mankind, matching the Genesis account in detail.<br />Johnson asserts that scholars have previously been unsuccessful in identifying most of the figures in the east pediment because they have failed to connect Athena with Even and the story of Eden in the Book of Genesis. Through careful research, Johnson demonstrates that we do have the literature and art to serve as a source of reconstruction. Painstaking comparison demonstrates shows that the sculptures of the eastern pediment depict the Garden of Eden, the birth of Eve, the Great Flood. Furthermore, the goddess Athena, whom the Greeks worshipped as the one who brought the serpent's wisdom, is the same person the Book of Genesis calls Eve.<br />Johnson, a West Point graduate, author, teacher and public speaker based his research on surviving sculptures, the ancient writings of Homer, Hesiod, Pindar and others, plus myths, vase art and the work of numerous experts. His controversial approach will certainly garner attention from all who are interested in the classics, religion, art, and mythology. Indeed, Johnson's unique perspective will provoke avid discussion among academics for years to come, yet is easily approachable by any who hold an interest in our origins.	2002-11-05
1350979:US	49693975	R3H29Z4X7MNWMS	0373710879	916388233	The Sheriff of Shelter Valley : Shelter Valley Stories (Harlequin Superromance No. 1087)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Interesting use of amnesia plot -- Recommended	The piercing cry of a child wakes a woman in a hotel in Snowflake, Arizona. With no identification and no memory of her past, she must construct a life for herself and her son. Using the name she checked in under, Beth Allen evaluates the bruises on her body and the two thousand dollars in a duffle bag and surmises that she and Ryan are on the run. But from what and to where?<br />An article describing the sanctuary a battered wife discovered in Shelter Valley leads Beth there. She begins a cleaning business and leads a reclusive life. But the sheriff Greg Richards finds the draw of this enigmatic woman fascinating. Meanwhile, Greg has his own struggles with his past as current carjackings seem to tie to cold cases of ten years ago that took his father's life.<br />Author Tara Taylor Quinn uses amnesia to great effect in THE SHERIFF OF SHELTER VALLEY. Rather than encouraging dependence, however, amnesia forces self-reliance and extreme independence for Beth. The secondary plot, however, threatens to overbalance the tale as Greg struggles to solve the carjackings. Nevertheless, the use of a cult in the novel provides a chilling motivation for Beth's flight, and her desperate need to protect her child. While the novel feels a bit uneven, it's fast pace and riveting action will keep the reader glued to its pages. Recommended.	2002-11-05
1351130:US	49693975	R193BR9WLA5NYR	0373710917	271888686	Dreamless (Harlequin Superromance No. 1091)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A tender romance and the path to forgiveness	Cassie McClean dreams of building beautiful, quality luxurious homes, but her new housing division seems plagued with disaster, contributed to by her neighbor, Jake Coffey. Road restrictions, restraining orders, threats of court all contribute to her frustration. But when Jake comes up the hill to complain to her in person, Cassie's life is transformed.<br />Horses are Jake's life, and the horrendous construction noise threatens to send value mares into labor much too soon. His and Cassie's peevish telephone skirmishes quickly escalate to all out war. Surprisingly, after meeting they do establish compromises and quickly fall into a dating routine. Unfortunately, vandals strike at both of their properties, endangering their livelihoods and eventually their lives.<br />Author Darlene Gardner pours on the romance while never backing away from the painful events of the past in DREAMLESS. Cassie and Jake begin as enemies who make an immediate connection when tragedy draws them together. Then they do something seldom acknowledged in the romantic genre: they date and truly enjoy their growing relationship: movies, a favorite restaurant, hearts and flowers, oh my! Of course, they also meet with incredible personal challenges that put their beliefs and their love to the test. But once established, their feelings for one another never waiver. Cassie's father and Jake's ex-wife provide important subplots that teach important lesson in love and forgiveness. A beautifully told tale that will hold readers riveted, DREAMLESS comes highly recommended.	2002-11-05
1351303:US	49693975	R1EP8M00SQJ0L5	1590250176	362580590	Heir Apparent: A Pinnacle Peak Mystery	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Nothing's apparent in this twisting mystery!	When his law firm downsizes, Joe McGuiness worries none of the other firms in town might accept him. An average student, this opportunity had been a godsend. His girl friend, on the other hand, is ready to celebrate his possible layoff, longing to move to San Diego where he can accept a position with her father. Although he narrowly escapes the threat of layoff, Joe soon has much bigger concerns.<br />A rodeo accident left Joe's horse dead and his shoulder severely injured. He returns to riding to participate in a team-roping event with Reilly, his best buddy since law school. Unfortunately, rodeo does not compete with the glittery world his girl friend would prefer, making Mia Ortiz that much more attractive when he meets her. Their immediate connection and common interests seem promising, until they return from their first date and she is arrested for murder.<br />Twist Phelan brings her deft skill of resolving complexities in the courtroom to her first novel, HEIR APPARENT. Her background as a lawyer and as an athlete lend HEIR APPARENT a convincing reality even as she weaves a tale filled with surprising twists and convolutions. The novel begins at a measured pace, creating a world that cleverly overlaps the world of a law firm with the world of rodeo cowboys. Rich characterizations provide an abundance of suspects that will keep readers guessing. Especially memorable are Joe's first girl friend with the perfect white tennis shoes, Trudy who wears politically incorrect t-shirts to work, and lawyer Jerry Dan who argues the Doppler effect as an excuse for running a red light. Very highly recommended.	2002-11-05
1351344:US	49693975	R3BMXY8XTU142V	1930928378	862349361	Passion's Fire	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Unusual plot -- Highly recommended	The scent of fire brings horrific reminders of death to Jacqueline Cardew. But even before her husband's death was ruled arson-suicide, Jacqueline had been suspicious of malevolent forces in her life. For three years poetry has arrived printed on the paper that comprised origami animals. As her stalker grows more threatening, Jacqueline decides a cross-country trip will dissuade her stalker. Jacqueline is wrong.<br />Link Gavalian had looked forward to a fishing trip with his buddies until his sister, her fiancé and his niece want to come along. Worse, his secretary insists her granddaughter Jacqueline accompany him as well. She looks like a teen and promises to be a burden equal to his whiny niece. He is not even initially sure if Jacqueline truly has a stalker or is orchestrating events to draw attention. But as his attraction increases, Link comes to realize that danger follows them.<br />Author Jeanne Foguth pens an intriguing romantic suspense with PASSION'S FIRE. The clever plot takes unusual twists and added dimensions that will keep the reader guessing even as tension mounts. Unusual in many romantic suspense novels, Jacqueline and Link stay out of a sexual relationship during the course of the novel, allowing the emphasis to remain on the stalking plot. Further, Jacqueline proves herself to be a powerful heroine who resourcefulness extends to not only thriving while roughing it, but also refusing to back away from the threat that follows. In addition, secondary characters are nicely developed, especially the theatric teen appropriately named Tempest. An addictive read that is impossible to put down, PASSION'S FIRE comes highly recommended.	2002-11-05
1352123:US	49693975	R3ECH563HN1XD	0803495080	568239351	Until Our Last Embrace (Avalon Mystery)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Very highly recommended	Sharyn is the third generation of Howards to be elected sheriff in the small town of Diamond Springs, North Carolina. She has her hands full when word of a bear attack throws the town in a tizzy, especially when a reporter prints a false story claiming that the bear was rabid. The victim was Darva Richmond, the sister-in-law to Beau Richmond, a man previously murdered. Her husband was suing his brother's widow over a large inheritance. While the mauling is tragic, no one initially suspects foul play until officers look beyond initial evidence. <br />As clues are revealed, Darva's husband seems to be the logic suspect. But his bitter family also provides is also suspicious. Further, Darva's aunt, Miss Eleanore, arrives in town with her accusations. Contradictory reports of Darva's marriage add to the confusion as friends report that Darva and husband Donald were the perfect couple, yet family claims that they were always fighting and didn't sleep together. Donald was contesting his brother's will because it was changed during the last few months of Beau Richmond's life. Donald says he brother was stable enough to make out a new will that changed his heir from being his brother to being his new wife. Millions are at stake.<br />In addition to a touchy investigation, Sharyn finds herself confronting a host of other problems. District Attorney Jack Winter is determined to express his romantic interest and doesn't hesitate to use political machinations for his own purposes. She also must find a date to attend her mother's engagement party, although her mother's marrying Senator Caison Talbot, a man Sharyn neither likes nor trusts. Her deputies seem to be fighting affairs of the heart that leave her short staffed. Further, because she doesn't see herself or her job as desirable, she's clueless in realizing her medical examiner is interested. To top it off, the dry cleaners dyed her uniforms blue.<br />Authors Joyce and Jim Lavene combine their creative efforts in UNTIL OUR LAST EMBRACE. A touch of levity gives this mystery punch, making it a fast, fun read. Staunchly independent, and chronically curious, Sharyn Howard is a believable, determined heroine blind to her own possible love interests. Further, the conclusion UNTIL OUR LAST EMBRACE proves to be powerful and satisfying even as it keeps the reader guessing until the end. As each book in the series gets even better, you have to constantly remind yourself that Sharyn and the town of Diamond Springs are a work of fiction. Very highly recommended.	2002-11-04
1353292:US	49693975	ROFPA3Z6Q0EX1	0373691025	737571393	It's a guy thing !   (the wrong bed)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Sizzling! Very highly recommended	Cassie Carmichael plans to surprise her boyfriend at his rented Aspen Creek cabin. After all, things had gone from sizzling to boring, and she figures a little spice should put their relationship to rights. Unfortunately, the surprise is on Cassie when she catches Boring Bob bopping someone else. Outraged and without a place to wait out the snowstorm, Cassie accepts long time friend Guy Walters' offer of a bed at his family condo. Suddenly her long time fantasy is within grasp, if Cassie willing to risk. <br />Except for himself, the last of the single Bolder Bandidoes, a high school group of sexy hijinks and fun guys, has sent Guy an invitation to his wedding. Perhaps this weekend stranded in the mountains will give Guy the time he needs for introspection. He does not expect Cassie to pick this opportunity to make a long time fantasy into a reality. After one wild weekend, Cassie intends to return to Boulder and revamp to her previous safe, conventional life. She does not realize she has shown Guy what he needs in his life, or expect him to prove that fantasies can come true.<br />In her first contemporary release, author Cindi Myers can make even a game of Scrabble a sizzling delight in IT'S A GUY THING! Sheer tenacity and fantasy combine in a scintillating tale of new possibilities when Cassie drops her cheating boyfriend and eventually learns how extraordinary she truly can be. Guy will find convincing her challenge, however, if he wants to play for keeps. Their dynamic relationship will keep readers wildly amused in this tender romantic romp. The perfect reading for cold winter afternoon, IT'S A GUY THING comes very highly recommended.	2002-11-03
1353903:US	49693975	R2YFGSG6E0VY0V	1592799965	440149859	Lonely Heart	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A pleasure for all ages	Life inside the covers of a book appeals to Alyx Mossman far more than what she finds surrounding her, especially since her family has moved from New York to Heart, Colorado. Her father's ultimatum has not helped the situation with his demands that she would be off to boarding school if she does not learn to socialize with her peers. The truth is that Alyx feels like an outsider no matter where she is.<br />Carrie Eberson does not give Alyx the opportunity to distance herself, cheerfully befriending her with or without her consent. Her elder brother is the school's heart throb, and Tom soon notices the reclusive Alyx. Unfortunately, Alyx misjudges his relationship with the school bad girl, distrusting her own gifts to attract such a popular boy. <br />Teen struggles with self-esteem and self-worth make LONELY HEART a poignant read. Alyx's naivety leads to painful clashes with school's bad girl, revealing her own inability to defend herself. Yet when she does learn to assert herself, Alyx comes across as a powerful and lovable heroine readers will cheer. In addition, Tom makes a delightful hero with his typical male blindness but good heart, and his younger sister is absolutely wonderful. With subtle complexity and powerful characterizations, LONELY HEART comes highly recommended.	2002-11-02
1354125:US	49693975	R2IF1I6MKXOIUE	1592799922	789470052	Always Faithful	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Intriguing romantic suspense -- Highly recommended	Framed for murder, Staff Sergeant Rowan McKinley asks for the best to defend her. She has not seen Captain Phillip Stuart in nine years, and he does not know that she has kept a secret from him: they share an eight-year-old son. But none of that matters now. <br />Rowan knew someone was stealing government propriety at the Marine base at Twentynine Palms, CA. She had reported her suspicions to anyone and everyone who would listen. Finally fellow marine Charlie Kemp agreed to accompany her while she investigated. Rowan wakes in jail, accused of murder. <br />Phillip might still find Rowan wildly attractive, but their previous relationship occurred prior to enlistment. Now he is an officer and Rowan is enlisted -- and the military has strict fraternization laws. Despite his instinct to stay away, \\"Always Faithful\\" is more than just the Marine motto; it is a guiding principle in Phillip's life. He cannot just ignore Rowan's plea for representation even if she once broke his heart. <br />Authors Catherine Snodgrass and Bryndis Rubin pen an intriguing romantic suspense in ALWAYS FAITHFUL. Rowan and Phillip's ethical dilemmas maintain the tension between them even as they fight to control their old attraction. Phillip's reaction to learning of his son is commendable in the way he immediately immerses himself in fatherhood even while he deeply resents Rowan's secret keeping. Current conspiracies soon come to mirror conspiracies of the past as they discover previous manipulations. A strong romantic suspense with the dazzling characterizations readers expect, ALWAYS FAITHFUL comes highly recommended.	2002-11-02
1354126:US	49693975	R169BK50MOHCBR	0373710887	322678980	A Place to Belong : Serenity House (Harlequin Superromance No. 1088)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A powerful tale of healing -- Highly recommended	Fifteen years ago, Darcy's mother left her at Serenity House, a home for wayward girls. A promise of two months turned into four, and eventually seven. Despite the painful experience, Darcy maintained her free spirited lifestyle through boyfriends, marriage, two children, and divorce...<br />Author Kathryn Shay boldly tackles difficult life challenges in A PLACE TO BELONG. Both Darcy and Hunter have struggled with failed marriages and bad reputations. Both struggle with self-images in ways that will endear them to readers. They also both love their children, who are sparkling additions to the tale. The greatest strength of the novel lies in Hunter's challenge with his son's ADHD and his realization that he also has it even as an adult. A PLACE TO BELONG comes highly recommended.	2002-11-02
1354152:US	49693975	ROAKCURW5H8OK	1592799884	245560872	Emerald Heat	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Exciting romantic suspense -- Highly recommended	Four years after his wife's supposed death, Jim Wolfe shockingly encounters Lily at an airport. Stunned, he can only let her go once again, as she slips away with Eric Von Rass, her grandfather's right hand man -- the man selected to be her next husband. Jim does not suspect that Lily's reactions are an effort to save his life from her cruel grandfather, a man who will stop at nothing to get his way, including murder.<br />Her grandfather has plans for Lily's life. The last of the Phillips, Lily must fulfill her destiny to provide him with new heirs unpolluted by the likes of Jim Wolfe. His ruthless manipulations destroyed Lily's marriage, leaving her to believe herself widowed for years. Her grandfather holds her son hostage in assurance of her compliance to his will. But Lily will do anything to get her son to safety.<br />Author Barbara Clark once again pens a novel of startling emotional intensity and danger in EMERALD HEAT. Clark's talent sparkles in this world of orchards and romance. the result is a memorable sensual delight that juxtaposes jungle lushness and unspeakable cruelty. Characterizations are vivid realized, especially Lily and Jim who must find a way to healing and forgiveness in defiance of a man who rules his country and his family with an iron fist. The result is an exciting romantic suspense readers cannot put down. Highly recommended.	2002-11-02
1354536:US	49693975	R3CEDIEFTWLQYB	0804119775	612131783	Midnight Rain	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Compelling romantic suspense - Very highly recommended	A bullet leaves Jonathan Brighton a changed man. Armani suits no longer fit his personality, emotional responses shift, memories blur or are erased. Now he calls himself John and plans to return to Guardian, a computer security firm he founded. But during his six-month absence, customers no longer trust the company and friendships give way to quests for power. Worse, John cannot remember his past well enough to defend himself from accusations of murder. The only bright spot is the physical therapist provided by his insurance company.<br />In the six years she has worked for the bureau, Kathleen \\"Katie\\" Cavanaugh has never been attracted to a target until now. Three months of desk duty following an assignment gone wrong leaves her ready to prove she never lost her edge. But this new undercover assignment as John's physical therapist leaves her questioning her loyalties, her purpose, and her sanity. A chameleon accustomed to loosing herself in her undercover roles, Katie suddenly longs to explore their soul deep connections. <br />Author Dee Davis creates a powerful story of love, betrayal and murder in MIDNIGHT RAIN. The connection between Jonathan and Katie leaves them both breathless even as it threatens his freedom and her career. Once again Davis demonstrates her deft talent of creating a multilayer plot with meticulous care as tiny details and inferences are used to great effect. With plenty of characters to love and hate, abundant suspects and a generous number of red herrings, MIDNIGHT RAIN will satisfy discerning lovers of romantic suspense.	2002-11-02
1354570:US	49693975	R334RC93N5M0S5	159279999X	254057701	Come the Night	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	In an effort to save her infant's existence, Octavia presents her son Lazarus to his grandfather Romulus, pleading that he be made a Vampyre. Lazarus was born the son of an who mated the mortal woman. Legend says that only demons come from the union of a mortal to an angel. Therefore, to prevent her son from becoming one of the damned souls of the Nephilim, Octavia wants him to become one of the immortal. Out of love for his daughter and grandson, Romulus complies before ending his own existence and passing leadership of The Tribe to his grandchild, with his daughter leading in the interim.<br />Just as the Nephilim once stalked his infant life, so do they now pursue Lazarus. For 600 years he has led The Tribe. They are the New Breed, those who feed on the food and wine of paradise in lieu of blood. He has married a mortal woman, a Tracker sworn to destroy Vampyres named Neomina Delacroix. Prophesy states that from their union will come a savior born to destroy the Dark Breed, those who feed on human flesh. Lazarus' archangel uncle was long ago appointed to search for the soul who would destroy him. But Lazarus does not trust his guardian, believing him to have killed his father. Little do either Lazarus or his archangel uncle suspect their blood tie to the demon that would destroy them all.<br />Author Angelique Armae pens a groundbreaking mythology regarding vampyre and archangels in COME THE NIGHT. The tale begins in Rome 476 A.D., continuing in Ireland 1095. Christian mythos lends a powerful structure to the tale, including an amulet containing a few drops of Christ's blood and a stake made of the wood of the cross and the silver from the platter that server John the Baptist's Head. A new interpretation of the events in the Garden of Eden provides the existence of the Vampyers and the Nephilim. Such profound theology lends the tale a uniquely original flavor that separates it from the vast market of vampire books. With powerful yet vulnerable characterizations,an intricate plot, and a scintillating voice, Armae presents readers with a novel impossible to put down, and leaves them hungering for the next book of the series. COME THE NIGHT earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-11-02
1354954:US	49693975	R2NH6WOGFY7SN8	0972043608	110312180	Toko of Coco Oko	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	On the tiny island of Coco Oko each inhabitant persues the work they love the most. But one resident, Toko, doesn't know what he does best. So he goes to the god called The Great Coconut, to ask to be the best fisherman in all the village. But instead of accolades, Toko only gains laughter at his efforts. The same thing happenes when he tries to build a boat or gather bananas. All the while, Toko writes about his experiences in his journal.<br />The journey to discover one's self, whether young or old, comes alive with Andrew Shoup's TOKO OF COCO OKO. A remarkable tale in its simplicity, this illustrated book contains a vital lesson perfect for all ages. My youngest audience, age two, thought Toko very silly and asks for the story again and again. My oldest audience, thirty-something, likewise enjoyed the story even as they appreciated the message of finding the one thing that brings joy and doing it well. With terrific illustrations and a wonderful story all audiences will love, TOKO OF COCO OKO earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-11-01
1354984:US	49693975	R3LU4AZG0FGTIC	1591295823	756538758	Involuntary Separation	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Complex plotting and strong characterizations	John McCall finds his boss murdered, still seated at his desk with a bullet through his head. The letters ISP have been carefully written in marker with the P around the bullet wound. ISP, involuntary separation seems to be a powerful motive, but with hundreds of past employees laid off and hundreds more potentially threatened, suspects abound. Oddly, the victim was not that heavily involved in the previous downsizing and would not have been involved in the next one either.<br />John has already worked with the police on a previous case. Two years ago his wife Alicia and her best friend were brutally raped and murdered. While investigating Alicia's murder, police received so many calls from John's office phone late at night that they labeled him a workaholic with extreme dedication to Moon Oil. John is equally dedicated to ending corporate layoffs targeted to artificially inflate quarter reports. His dedication proves to be his downfall when Moon Oil uses his financial computer model to justify downsizing.<br />With rumors flying regarding another downsizing, John intends to find a way to stop it. His long-term financial forecasting models predict dire consequences for the economy if corporations continue to downsize, but John has not as yet been able to predict short-term negative results. When a second board member is murdered and ISP is found be brutally slashed on his belly, every employee of Moon Oil, past and present, becomes suspect. Meanwhile, the chairman of the board assigns John to keep an eye on Beatrice Winter because she has \\"the eyes of a killer\\". <br />Author Rick Lacey makes restitution for his own participation in a sever corporate downsizing at BP Oil by drawing upon his personal experiences as a Senior Financial Analyst in INVOLUNTARY SEPARATION. Lacey admits that INVOLUNTARY SEPARATION was written to start a national dialogue regarding corporate abuse in general and corporate downsizing in particular. The novel's psychotic killer seek revenge even while exposing the dangerous power plays that occur behind fancy boardroom doors. While the primary murder plot will hold readers riveted, it is the exposure of big business that will make readers indignant and angry with the abuses corporations perpetrate on their employees. Indeed, corporate abuses abound with an eye only for the next quarter: never mind the devastation to America's families and workforce, not to mention to the long term health of the company. Consequently, the novel succeeds with a powerful tale that affects every citizen of America. In addition, Lacey's sophisticated prose will appeal to literature lovers who enjoy a touch of metafiction, irony, and satire. Note: Some discerning readers will be ethically challenged by John's evolving personal relationship with his psychiatrist. INVOLUNTARY SEPARATION comes very highly recommended.	2002-11-01
1355307:US	49693975	R3GMGATE6RH80C	0972043608	110312180	Toko of Coco Oko	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	On the tiny island of Coco Oko each inhabitant persues the work they love the most. But one resident, Toko, doesn't know what he does best. So he goes to the god called The Great Coconut, to ask to be the best fisherman in all the village. But instead of accolades, Toko only gains laughter at his efforts. The same thing happenes when he tries to build a boat or gather bananas. All the while, Toko writes about his experiences in his journal.<br />The journey to discover one's self, whether young or old, comes alive with Andrew Shoup's TOKO OF COCO OKO. A remarkable tale in its simplicity, this illustrated book contains a vital lesson perfect for all ages. My youngest audience, age two, thought Toko very silly and asks for the story again and again. My oldest audience, thirty-something, likewise enjoyed the story even as they appreciated the message of finding the one thing that brings joy and doing it well. With terrific illustrations and a wonderful story all audiences will love, TOKO OF COCO OKO earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-11-01
1355456:US	49693975	R3IABDXBORWGS9	1931659001	473745885	Jacob and the Polar Bears	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	One day, Jacob and his mother choose polar bear pajamas at a second-hand shop. The shop owner cautions Jacob of the naughtiness of his polar bears, and gives him a stuffed polar bear who will help keep them in line. That night, itching, tickling sensations awaken Jacob and he sees a bed full of tiny polar bears. Rather than coming to sleep on his pajamas, however, the playful polar bears want to go for a swim in the creek. Now Jacob and King, his stuffed polar pear, must get the 172 naughty polar bears back on his pajamas. <BR> <BR>Young readers will love JACOB AND THE POLAR BEAR! My two-year-old audience, much younger than the recommended ages of four to eight, sat still for the entire story, mesmerized by the mischievous 172 polar bears. Indeed, my audience has asked for this story repeatedly since the first reading! A whimsical, amusing story with beautiful illustrations in which young Jacob learns the challenges of obedience, JACOB AND THE POLAR BEARS earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-11-01
1355499:US	49693975	R183BZLC2G5TF1	0972043608	110312180	Toko of Coco Oko	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	On the tiny island of Coco Oko each inhabitant peruses the work they love the most. But one resident, Toko, doesn't know what he does best. So he goes to the god called The Great Coconut, to ask to be the best fisherman in all the village. But instead of accolades, Toko only gains laughter at his efforts. The same thing happens when he tries to build a boat or gather bananas. All the while, Toko writes about his experiences in his journal.<br />The journey to discover one's self, whether young or old, comes alive with Andrew Shoup's TOKO OF COCO OKO. A remarkable tale in its simplicity, this illustrated book contains a vital lesson perfect for all ages. My youngest audience, age two, thought Toko very silly and asks for the story again and again. My oldest audience, thirty-something, likewise enjoyed the story even as they appreciated the message of finding the one thing that brings joy and doing it well. With terrific illustrations and a wonderful story all audiences will love, TOKO OF COCO OKO earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-11-01
1357392:US	49693975	R6B7E6FCHPW60	1586978039	394104857	Sealed in Blood	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Intricately woven -- Highly recommended	Rumors that a second rate reporter has obtained authentic pictures of a demon draws professor Nigel Jameson to a science fiction convention. Nigel convinces another convention guest, Sherri Hudson, to aid in his plan to steal the pictures and negatives before they become public. Unfortunately, someone else wants those pictures as well. After Nigel successful obtains them and learns the \\"demon\\" is his vampire sister, someone else slips into the reporter's room and leaves him dead.<br />Several days after the convention, Sherri receives a threatening phone call demanding the pictures. Soon she finds herself swept away on a supernatural adventure to find Nigel's sister Laura. While Nigel protests the possibility of a long-term relationship, neither can resist their shared allure, plunging them into a passionate affair.<br />Margaret Carter maintains the seductive allure of vampire legend yet lends vampires their own unique heritage in SEALED IN BLOOD. Vampires in Carter's world have their own evolutionarily and cultural background coexisting with humanity. One is born a vampire, rather than transformed, as the bitterly disappointed antagonist learns. Vampires earn livings and live among humans, though they maintain a mild sensitivity to the sun. In addition, Carter's understanding fandom and cons lends the novel an authentic background complete with filk music and fanaticism. An intricately woven novel that blends romance, adventure, suspense and the supernatural, SEALED IN BLOOD comes highly recommended.	2002-10-30
1358082:US	49693975	R2R97GJMLAZ1U3	052594639X	869048938	The Puzzle Bark Tree: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A powerful novel of transformation and healing	Since childhood, a dream has haunted Grace Hammond Barnett. Only after her parent's suicide does Grace realize that her dream is actually a repressed memory and a key to forgotten past. She and her sister Melanie had always know their parents were different than other parents -- little more than vague shadows that passed through their lives restricting music and laughter with their dark presence. Only the housekeeper Jemma filled the girl's need for fun and frivolity, for hugs and unquestionable love. <br />The free spirited Grace grows up to marry a man as emotionally barren as her parents. Over the years, her bohemian skirts and long silver earrings cease to suit this highly respected cardiac surgeon. Ironic really, that a man who heals hearts refuses to touch the emotions of his own or another. Even with the death of Grace's parents, Adam refuses to accompany her to the scene when the call comes. But his absence leaves room for extraordinary change when Grace learns of the clues that lead to the answer of her parent's silence and the secrets that will forever redefine her life. <br />Author Stephanie Gertler displays a dazzling skill for charting the transformations of the heart in THE PUZZLE BARK TREE. Grace's parents become a powerful presence in the novel, ironically through their absences and odd restraint. Gertler skillfully captures Grace's mother's devastated psyche with powerful imagery and gentle understanding, never excusing her withdrawal yet treating it with compassion. Indeed, the women of the novel sparkle with a shimmering passion and presence, though the men are so strongly juxtaposed as to become stereotypes. Nevertheless, Gertler's flowing narrative weaves a mesmerizing tale of sorrow, transformation and healing. Moreover, Gertler's distinctive rich voice speaks with incredible sensitivity and wisdom. A beautifully realized puzzle comprised of the past and the future, of grief and of joy, THE PUZZLE TREE comes highly recommended.	2002-10-30
1358615:US	49693975	R10XYY0KY9B3Z5	0373710860	883002604	The Redemption of Matthew Quinn : Four Seasons in Firefly Glen (Harlequin Superromance No. 1086)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	On what should have been her wedding day, Natalie Granville drinks too much, gets a bit too much sun, and balances precariously on a balustrade; that is, just before landing in Matthew Quinn's arms. Perhaps her decision against marrying a millionaire may have an unexpected payoff, even if Summer House crumbles down around her head. Even Matthew's confession of his past does not dissuade Natalie from what she wants.<br />Ex-con Matthew arrives at Summer House to apply for a job as a handyman, and plans to walk away from temptation. But Natalie's flair for life irresistibly draws him. His speech and demeanor suggest he would be more comfortable in Armani suits than faded jeans, but Mathew's parole depends upon finding work outside the financial world he once knew. Further, he's never met anyone as open and gullible as Natalie nor more beguiling.<br />The third installment of the Four Seasons In Firefly Glen series, THE REDEMPTION OF MATTHEW QUINN is a marvelous read. Natalie and Matthew come from vastly different worlds. She needs his help; he needs a new beginning. Together they find magic. Indeed, with this hero and heroine author Kathleen O'Brien creates characters that readers will come to love, including a wonderful secondary plot complete with young love. Further, the town of Firefly Glen comes alive, revisiting old friends and introducing characters readers will be reluctant to leave. A quirky, original, fun read, THE REDEMPTION OF MATTHEW QUINN earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-10-29
1358730:US	49693975	R1QD3CMSWCOXJ8	0941367304	304892993	Cover Fire	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Powerful WW II fiction -- Highly recommended	During World War II, Second Lieutenant Morgan leads his men behind enemy lines. The Captain orders Morgan and his men to protect a pontoon bridge that engineers were working on. Meanwhile, the Germans possess a devastating weapon called \\"The Screecher\\", a powerful cannon with such long range that it tears huge holes in the American offensive line. When battle wounds force Morgan to report to the field hospital, his Sergeant receives orders to locate the cannon for air strikes.<br />An interrupted message sends Morgan and the remaining four men of Randall's rifle squad on a search and rescue mission. They intend to find both Randall and the location of The Screecher. They find a scene of unbelievable horror with Randall, still alive, lying in a shallow grave. Incoming strikes and a dangerous grass fire send Morgan and his men toward a distant castle and a rumored resistance cell. <br />COVER FIRE by K.G. Booth explores the devastating psychology of war where the most deadly enemy is within. On the surface, COVER FIRE is an excellent, action packed war novel; but it also something more. Booth brings her 25 years of teaching experience to bear as she forges a powerful emotional link between the reader and the characters of her novel. Her students began as her audience as Booth struggles to reach incarcerated youth through fiction, allowing them to explore their own battle scared psyches in a safe environment. But others will find COVER FIRE powerful reading as well. Fans of war fiction, victims of posttraumatic shock syndrome, and others who bear the deep emotional burdens that can only heal by exposure and exploration will find COVER FIRE a useful tool to begin their own healing. Booth's deep understanding of the psyche brings the novel immediacy and depth that will linger long after the last page is turned. Highly recommended.	2002-10-29
1358996:US	49693975	R49OOWOHPB5YQ	0738702536	912962153	The Lost Girl (Fortune Teller's Club Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Supernatural fun! Very highly recommended	Desperation over a lost retainer brings the Fortune Teller's Club together for an emergency meeting. Twelve-year-old friends Juniper, Anne, and Gena formed the club two years ago when they realized they each have a psychic gift using tarot cards, ESP, and a Magic 8-Ball to find lost objects and predict the future. When their usual methods fail, the friends turn to scrying in water to find answers. Instead of finding Gena's lost retainer, however, they see the face of a missing girl. <br />Author Dotti Enderle begins the Fortune Tellers Club with a captivating tale of paranormal proportions. Friends Juniper, Anne and Gena are uniquely realized characters with fascinating gifts. Author Enderle understands young adult's fascination with all things paranormal, seamlessly blending the supernatural with the mundane in this fast paced tale. Young readers seeking a different kind of read will find THE LOST GIRL incredibly satisfying. THE LOST GIRL comes very highly recommended.	2002-10-29
1359194:US	49693975	R26O7079OYU2IM	0312983026	236698413	It's a Love Thang	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A delightful romp! Highly recommended	A nudist colony does not deter Ebony MacKenzie from her goal of interviewing the illusive Ice Cream King Reuben Renfro. She has forty-five minutes to get her story before she must uncover, but focus becomes difficult when she spies the nearly uncovered Isaiah Malone. Little does she suspect they share the same goal. <br />Isaiah usually prefers curvaceous, wild women. Ebony's Sears suit and button up appearance does not fit the nudist resort or his own fantasies, and yet she captures his imagination. She also gets them thrown out of the resort, leaving them both desperate for an interview and pressured by family.<br />Author Reon Laudat brings her own journalist flair and a hearty dose of humor in IT'S A LOVE THANG. It's a wild, roller coaster ride to the top complete with nudist colonies and paint ball competitions. The competition between Ebony and Isaiah is fierce, surpassed only by their sizzling chemistry. Dysfunctional families, Mickey Mouse jammies and passion keep the novel moving quickly. While parts may seem a bit unrealistic, they do not overshadow this delightful romp. Highly recommended.	2002-10-29
1359353:US	49693975	R34NNZCVHDFT74	037327257X	863308442	Taking Cover (Wingmen Warriors) (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1187)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An intense and powerful read -- Highly recommended	Twelve years ago, a forbidden kiss stirred the souls of Tanner Bennett and Kathleen O'Connell. On that ill-fated night, Tanner learned of the carjacking, rape and murder of his beloved twin sister. In his darkest hours, Kathleen's kiss was a lifeline. These days Tanner lives by the squadron motto, \\"Anything. Anywhere. Anytime.\\" He knows that nothing he does will bring his sister back, but good deed is like a smoothing balm over a raw wound. So being grounded by now Captain Kathleen O'Connell for pinched nerve frustrates him to no end. Especially when he is only six weeks from his rescheduled upgrade from copilot to aircraft commander. <br />Kathleen believes that Tanner is as stubborn as he'd been at the Academy his freshman year. She had been in junior year, and their forbidden kiss could have had them both booted out of Academy. Their current clashes are legendary, and this latest grounding simply underscores their irritability toward one another. Unfortunately, their Squadron Commander overhears their arguing and gives them a new assignment. For the next month they will work together to investigate a C-17 accident. By getting away from the rest of the squadron, eating together, riding together, playing together, and spending every waking hour with each other things should settle out. Or not.<br />Author Catherine Mann provides another powerful look at the people behind the uniform in TAKING COVER, the second novel of the \\"Wingmen Warriors\\" series. Kathleen is like a warrior goddess, independent and fierce. Tanner has fierce need to serve and protect, driven by the death of his sister. Their clashes spark strong chemistry, and their time together exacerbates the situation. Indeed, close proximity brings about strong emotion and intense motivation that results in violent clashes and wild need. The next book of this \\"Wingmen Warriors\\" series, UNDER SIEGE, will be available in February 2003. An intense and powerful read, TAKING COVER comes highly recommended.	2002-10-29
1359647:US	49693975	R3K90XVNTFQJ1Y	0425186865	171452887	The Forest Lord (The Fane, Book 1)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	One of the last of Fane, the Forest Lord cannot enter Tir-na-nog until he returns with an heir of his own making. For centuries he has guarded Hartsmere, honoring a long forgotten pact. Then one day Cyrus Fleming, the Earl of Bradwell, enters Hartsmere in search of prey. The Forest Lord threatens to take the bounty and fortune the Flemings have enjoyed unless Cyrus forfeits his daughter. In return, the Forest Lord agrees to wed his daughter for the time a child grows in her body, and then plans to depart for Tir-na-nog with the child. Cyrus agrees, but adds the condition that the Forest Lord must win his daughter's love.<br />Six months later and desperately in love, Eden elopes with the man she believes to be her cousin Cornelius Fleming. They spend the night together in glorious intimacy, planning to wed the next day. Then Eden overhears a dreadful fight between Cornelius and her father, and she learns that Cornelius does not love her. Worse, she enters the room, and the man that she plans to wed transforms into a monster. Later, she gives birth to a child she believes to have died. Eden then assumes her place in London society in an arranged marriage. Then six years after Cornelius disappeared, Eden returns to Hartsmere a widow, having learned on her husband's deathbed that her child survives.<br />Fans who love the magic and mystery of Susan Krinard's shape shifter/werewolf romances will delight in this new series of shape shifters who originate in the forests of Ireland. Embodying the timeless theme of Beauty and the Beast, THE FOREST LORD comes alive with truly amazing characterizations. The author's respect for pagan mythology brings the tale a dazzling strength, with endearing, flawed characters that grow and develop in profound ways. Further, Krinard's vivacious style lends the tale a sense of believability and immediacy that will hold readers glued to its pages. As a matter of fact, THE FOREST LORD will appeal to far more than just romance readers. After only reading and describing the first fifty pages to my husband, I accidentally left the book at home. My husband who loves pagan mythology unexpectedly picked it up based on my description, and when I returned home he demanded that I finish it quickly because he was anxious to finish the story himself! A fabulous read that must be added to the keeper shelf, THE FOREST LORD comes very highly recommended.	2002-10-29
1360404:US	49693975	RWCHG3D4ZZYJY	0941367304	304892993	Cover Fire	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Powerful WW II fiction -- Highly recommended	A nudist colony does not deter Ebony MacKenzie from her goal of interviewing the illusive Ice Cream King Reuben Renfro. She has forty-five minutes to get her story before she must uncover, but focus becomes difficult when she spies the nearly uncovered Isaiah Malone. Little does she suspect they share the same goal. <br />Isaiah usually prefers curvaceous, wild women. Ebony's Sears suit and button up appearance does not fit the nudist resort or his own fantasies, and yet she captures his imagination. She also gets them thrown out of the resort, leaving them both desperate for an interview and pressured by family.<br />Author Reon Laudat brings her own journalist flair and a hearty dose of humor in IT'S A LOVE THANG. It's a wild, roller coaster ride to the top complete with nudist colonies and paint ball competitions. The competition between Ebony and Isaiah is fierce, surpassed only by their sizzling chemistry. Dysfunctional families, Mickey Mouse jammies and passion keep the novel moving quickly. While parts may seem a bit unrealistic, they do not overshadow this delightful romp. Highly recommended.	2002-10-28
1360523:US	49693975	R2JUMQ8PD4Q4O2	0941367304	304892993	Cover Fire	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Powerful WW II fiction -- Highly recommended	A nudist colony does not deter Ebony MacKenzie from her goal of interviewing the illusive Ice Cream King Reuben Renfro. She has forty-five minutes to get her story before she must uncover, but focus becomes difficult when she spies the nearly uncovered Isaiah Malone. Little does she suspect they share the same goal. <br />Isaiah usually prefers curvaceous, wild women. Ebonys Sears suit and button up appearance does not fit the nudist resort or his own fantasies, and yet she captures his imagination. She also gets them thrown out of the resort, leaving them both desperate for an interview and pressured by family.<br />Author Reon Laudat brings her own journalist flair and a hearty dose of humor in ITS A LOVE THANG. Its a wild, roller coaster ride to the top complete with nudist colonies and paint ball competitions. The competition between Ebony and Isaiah is fierce, surpassed only by their sizzling chemistry. Dysfunctional families, Mickey Mouse jammies and passion keep the novel moving quickly. While parts may seem a bit unrealistic, they do not overshadow this delightful romp. Highly recommended.	2002-10-28
1362476:US	49693975	RIUNB6Y7AILS9	1592799892	382055143	Tears of the Hawk (Sons of Earth and Wind)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Intriguing paranormal romantic suspense	Dreams of violence years ago still shatters Hawk Adams' calm, even half a world away on the coast of Southern California. Restlessness leads to a walk in the park where he finds Charity Starr fighting off thugs intent upon kidnapping and theft. But Charity resourcefully fights back, determined to protect the vital information on her laptop. A gifted scientist, Charity's research into harnessing the vast reaches of solar energy has drawn dangerous attention. <br />A powerful empath, Charity fears the incredible power of her gifts when in Hawk's arms. Since a teenager, Charity has maintained a careful control over her gift, but Hawk's disarming presence forces her to drop barriers. Soon, she knows, she must reveal the nature of her gift to Hawk, which will bring about incredible challenges when Hawk comes to believe his very touch can pose a danger to Charity. Further, as betrayals and dangers escalate, only Charity's gifts can save both her and the man she is coming to love. <br />Barbara Clark's series, Sons of Earth and Wind, makes a powerful beginning with TEARS OF A HAWK. Although the pace is a bit uneven, Clark nonetheless pens a gripping tale with a powerful plot and strong characterizations. Charity quickly recognizes her vulnerability to this strong man with such a deeply troubled soul. Hawk mistrusts her gifts, his desire, and his ability to stay away from her. Their growing passion provides some delightfully heated moments. TEARS OF A HAWK is intriguing romantic suspense with its hint of the paranormal, coming highly recommended.	2002-10-26
1364349:US	49693975	R1E09EDIJS7E61	1592799906	875425283	Kiss of Deceit	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	A dangerous game turns deadly when erotic asphyxiation -- the cutting off of airways during sexual play -- leads to murder. Now it's up to homicide detective LeAnne McVeigh to find a killer with a newly acquired taste for a deadly game of power and control. The murderers begins with stripper Jillian, but soon target the wife of a prominent doctor, with apparently nothing in common between the victims -- and no clues at the crime scene except a motive to punish the adulterous. <br />Jillian's death leaves her grieving biker husband Snake as the primary suspect. Secure in her comfortable, sedate world, LeAnne is ill equipped to cope with her overwhelming attraction to this extraordinary man. Cops and bikers just don't have relationships, but neither of them can fight the powerful heat. Unfortunately, LeAnne's fiancé Chad Baker, Henry County's prosecutor, may have something to say about his soon-to-be bride's interest in a biker.<br />KISS OF DECEIT, another racy romantic thriller by Pat Rasey, will keep the heart pounding, the blood boiling, and the most hardened of readers entertained. KISS OF DECEIT takes a unique walk on the wild side, exploring the world of bikers and deceit. Snake epitomizes the raw, sexy biker bad boy with his devotion to a woman who was not faithful to him. Indeed, he profoundly juxtaposes homicide detective LeAnne who makes important self discoveries from the moment of their first encounter. These vivid characterizations, extremely sexual and sensual moments, and the pursuit of a ruthless killer whose parting kiss means murder, result a must read that belongs on every mystery lover's keeper shelf. KISS OF DECEIT comes very highly recommended.	2002-10-25
1365156:US	49693975	RK3FKM0POFHZ8	1551669315	332160987	The Third Wife	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Memorable romantic suspense -- Highly recommended	Seventeen-year-old Anna Langtry steals her groom's car on their wedding night, fleeing southwestern Colorado forever. She was Caleb Welks' third wife, in a small town of Alana Springs where members of True Life Later Day saints practice polygamy. The marriage was arranged by her step-father with her mother's approval, and no one in her small community would have supported her flight. With only $420 and a determination to survive she heads toward death or freedom. <br />Fifteen years later Anna has become a parole officer, maintaining her optimistic nature even while dealing with the dregs of society. On a morning already gone woefully wrong, Joe Mackenzie offends Anna from the moment he enters her office. She suspects his attitude has nothing to do with fear or humiliation, but with learning how to hid every trace of emotion in a bid for survival. He had been paroled after serving four years of his six year sentence for embezzlement. Anna expects the usual story of being misunderstood and innocent. She does not expect to come to believe it. Moreover, she never expects Joe to lead her life full circle, back to the world she left behind.<br />Author Jasmine Cresswell weaves a stunning tale of betrayal and subterfuge in THE THIRD WIFE. Anna's background will prove fascinating to readers, and Cresswell's explanation for the motivation for women to remain within such a restrictive environment is surprisingly gentle. Anna comes to accept that some women choose that lifestyle, even though her own rebelliousness could never tolerate such a choice. Joe's enigmatic personality teases the readers as we long for the explanation we know is coming. And even as readers become suspicious of the connections that bind Anna and Joe, the marvelous details and subtle plot twists result in a stunning denouncement. Some readers may feel that the pacing is a bit slow initially, but those readers who enjoy the subtle weaving of a master craftsman will savor the building tension. A remarkable read that remain long after the last page is turned, THE THIRD WIFE comes highly recommended.	2002-10-24
1365320:US	49693975	R1DNYAAFKPRUWB	0373710909	604289786	A Marriage Made in Texas: The Brothers Kincaid, Book 2 (Harlequin Superromance, No 1090)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Marvelous emotional conundrums! Highly recommended	Five years ago, Dr. Jay Kincaid's rejection seared her soul. Gail Summers was a struggling single mother five years older than Jay. Dancing at her sister's wedding, they had connected, yet when she invited him home, Jay had gently turned her down. Now Jay has moved to the sleepy town of Aransas for good.<br />Jay is ready to give up big city emergency medicine in exchange for a quieter lifestyle. He has left behind a fiancé and ulcers, but he quickly embraces romance with Gail. Passion binds them in its fiery embrace, then they learn their affair has permanent consequences. Already scarred by a marriage initiated by a pregnancy, Gail has no desire to make that kind of mistake again, even if Jay wants to do \\"the right thing.\\"<br />Author Eve Gaddy's knack for emotional romance sparkles in A MARRIAGE MADE IN TEXAS. Gail married her first husband after learning of her pregnancy, and spent years wondering if her husband truly loved her, or simply married her because of the child. Ten years later she finds herself facing the same circumstances, but this time she is a resourceful, powerful woman with choices. Her determination to maintain her independence coupled by her oldest daughter's refusal to accept a stepfather makes A MARRIAGE MADE IN TEXAS an outstanding read. Add a sexy hero and an irritating ex-husband, and A MARRIAGE MADE IN TEXAS results in sizzling romance readers will not want to miss. Highly recommended.	2002-10-24
1365644:US	49693975	R10TZ5H954JU6W	0964308711	176972555	Dyslexia My Life	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Thoughtful and compelling - Very highly recommended	As many as 15% of Americans may be dyslexic, yet this learning disability continues isolate and frustrate those who struggle with it. Consequently, Girard Sagmiller shares his personal experiences in DYSLEXIA MY LIFE in an effort to overcome the ignorance and prejudice of friends, family and society. Sagmiller shares not only his history, but also his creative coping skills that allowed him to go on to succeed in life, including earning an MBA in business.<br />Sagmiller was diagnosed as mentally retarded in elementary school. He describes in heart rendering terms the night a parent-teacher conference changed the lives of his family forever. Although his teaches recommended institutionalization, Sagmiller's mother refused to comply. His mother's tears and his father's rejections still haunt his memory. Later a more accurate diagnoses was made of dyslexia, which affects speech, reading, time perception, and can slow learning ins some subjects. <br />As a dyslexic myself, I found Sagmiller's account fascinating and I confess to learning a lot about myself while reading his narrative. I had never understood the two types of dyslexia, and how to discern between them. In addition, I couldn't help but chuckle in sympathy while reading his difficulty with standardized tests. I could easily empathize with the blows to the self-esteem as well as the feelings of stupidity and ineptitude. Moreover, with a Master's degree in English, I am also encouraged to find someone else who did reach his dreams despite the challenges meted out by this learning disability. A must read for those with dyslexia as well as parents, educators and others touched by this learning disability. DYSLEXIA MY LIFE comes very highly recommended.	2002-10-24
1367339:US	49693975	R36SSIVBGLVL95	1586978241	454220835	A Gift of Blood	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Half-breed Jaeger has always rejected his vampire/vector heritage, refusing to feed on humans. But his passage into adulthood overrides his restraint, forcing Jaeger to sate his hunger. He has spent most of life fleeing those who hunt his kind. He depends upon illusion for safety, but he meets a woman who senses the truth of his existence and desires him.<br />Bleeders build too much iron in the system: a potentially fatal condition. Rhiannon believes that if she can form a relationship with a Vector, both will benefit. While Celd wants her, however, Rhiannon prefers Jaeger. Celd feeds from humans, using them and discarding them at will, while she senses the good in Jaeger, promising him a new life for both of them.<br />Celd is one of the Chosen, his father one of the Sovereign's closest aids. He has the right to select a human to make her a hostess for his child since vector females do not bear children. Celd wishes to completely possess Rhiannon, taking her mind body and soul. Her body would feed him even as her witchcraft would increase his strength and power.<br />As a long time fan of JennaKay Francis, I have high expectations of this prolific author, and with A GIFT OF BLOOD those expectation of been exceeded. Taking up the challenge of a fellow author, Francis pens a vampire romance that combines her classic touch with an original approach. The result is a surprising fresh and spellbinding tale readers will not be able to put down. In addition, Francis once again proves her ability to challenge her characters' sexual identity and to push them to the edge of possibility, yet they remain remarkably sympathetic and believable. A symbiotic relationship between Vectors and Bleeders makes a fabulous premise for this new series, and readers will be eager for the next installment. A GIFT OF BLOOD earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-10-22
1370367:US	49693975	R3N5QPN4I6ASWJ	1904224229	699820874	The Secret Portal	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great fun! Very highly recommended	Jack Gray and Simon Bentley quickly become friends when they both arrived at Earls Boarding School a bit late, calling unwanted attention to themselves. They also share the dubious honor of being assigned the smallest room in the boarding school - room 13 had previously been a storage closet, which might explain why no one had ever noticed the room's unusual qualities. Behind the chest of drawers lies a secret portal to another school.<br />The students in the fifth dimension are bit unusual, as Jack and Simon soon discover. Some live on other plants, are vampires or witches, and some are not even alive! But when a dangerous vampire discovers the open portal, he plans to use it for his own diabolical purposes. Now it will up to Jack, Simon and their new friends to thwart the evil plan. <br />Readers who enjoy the magic of the Harry Potter series will discover a new set of unusual friends with magical abilities and unexpected happenings in THE SECRET PORTAL. Invisibility potions, shape shifting, and magic spells gone awry do not even begin to describe this fabulous read. Readers will chill the overcoming of bullies, the antics in the classroom, and the humor that binds this unusual cast of characters. In addition, Author Reno Charlton writes with a clear, concise, and light-hearted style that makes for delightful reading. This marvelously entertaining tale will delight young readers and the young at heart. With wonderful illustrations and a fast paced story line certain to entertain, leaving readers hoping their will be many sequels. THE SECRET PORTAL comes very highly recommended.	2002-10-20
1371209:US	49693975	R28DJR7M3CNWBR	0971532850	491086101	Clear Skinned	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Recommended for young women	In the sixth grade, Joan stopped looking in the mirror. She did not want to accept her parents' separation. By rejected her own reflection, Joan rejected the uncomfortable realities of her changed world. Eventually, she came to see herself as \\"clear-skinned,\\" or invisible. Later in her first year of college, Joan was truly noticed for the first time by a junior by the name of Majad. He was persistent in his endeavor to see beyond the surface. Joan began to express herself, to recognize the image in the mirror, perhaps because she and Majad were kindred souls in their feelings of invisibility. Unfortunately, Majad eventually did give up on Joan when she returned to her early feelings of invisibility. CLEAR SKINNED consists of the five stages of Joan and Majad's relationship as recorded in poems, letters and journal entries.<br />As a reviewer, I find myself extremely challenged at evaluating this material. On the one hand, as the letters, poems and journal entries unfold, I felt like a voyeur who has been given permission to observe the most intimate of struggles. Joan's naivety and youth inhibit her ability love herself. Without self-love, she finds trying to love someone else difficult and painful, nor can she trust the love Majad offers. I cannot help feeling incredible compassion for Majad, who offers his heart to a woman unable to accept his gift. His offer of support for Joan should find herself pregnant troubles me, especially since she apparently never told him of their child. On the other hand, because this is not a narrative in the traditional sense of the word, I am very limited in material to build understanding of Joan. She reveals herself more in the introduction than she does in the few letters or journal entries that appear.<br />The second section of the book, entitled \\"Express Yourself\\" does not have the requisite explanation for the use of the blank paper with only the line Dear... I had to research the publisher to find the following: \\"The EXPRESSYOURSELF section encourages the reader to write short notes of praise and adoration to family members, friends and co-workers.\\" It would be helpful to readers if a few paragraphs of explanation were included to indicate how to use this section. I like the concept of encouraging readers to express their own angst in the form of letters, but without a few encouraging words, few readers will find this section useful.<br />Overall, I would recommend CLEAR SKINNED to young adult women, either teens or college age who struggle with own issues of self-expression.	2002-10-19
1371518:US	49693975	R1FS26NR9TOM9Q	1589821122	291436296	Father's Touch	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A powerful read - Very highly recommended	Pedophilia survivor Donald D'Haene recounts the betrayal of a father in FATHER'S TOUCH. From the age of three and a half, his father engaged him in The Game, in which Donald was forced to masturbate his father. Over the years, the abuses of The Game escalated. Further, playing The Game was the only time which his aloof father would show interest in any of his four children. <br />Daniel and Jeannette D'Haene emigrated from Belgium in 1957 to Canada, settling in a rural area and having four children. Daniel left the Catholic Church to embrace the Jehovah Witnesses. He eventually converts his wife, who was not well educated and was forced to remain under his dominion in all things. He became a pillar of the church, immersing himself in bible study. With the church's backing, as head of the family Daniel dictated his family's life, ruling with an iron will. <br />In time, the children confided in one another, learning of their mutual abuse. When the children learned that their father's abuses were wrong, Daniel blurred their realities, making them feel responsible for the abuses that occurred. Even when the church intervened in 1973, The Game did not stop for long. Nor did the Jehovah Witness church elders report the abuses to local law enforcement. Instead, they told the children that they must continue to respect their father as the head of the house.<br />Indeed, it was a letter in a newspaper column that brought home reality to Donald as an adult, when he learned his father's actions were not only immoral but also illegal. By that time Daniel had remarried, joined a Baptist church and once again become a respected member of the community. Donald was eventually able to bring his father to trial, but the case became a sham as it was tainted by incompetence, ignorance and plea-bargaining. His light sentence seems to mock the horrifying ramifications of his abuse upon his children. <br />Donald D'Haene's bold revelations of abuse and survival cannot help but sear the reader's soul with his brutally honest account. FATHER'S TOUCH inevitably will provoke a strong emotional response in the reader, both outrage at the father's actions but also joy at Donald's ability to not just survive but to overcome. The classic methods Daniel used to dominate his family will strike a cord with all abuse survivors. However, FATHER'S TOUCH isn't just for incest survivors, but for all of us who might encounter victims in the court, in the day care, in the classroom, or across the street. A powerfully rendered, thought provoking account, FATHER'S TOUCH comes very highly recommended.	2002-10-18
1373937:US	49693975	R1XI5M7Z9KKZ0V	0373710968	505050430	Operation: Mistletoe : The Special Agents (Harlequin Superromance No. 1096)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Wonderful holiday romance -- Highly recommended	Sara Hanrahan returns home to Ryansville on a mission; one that she cannot share even with the local deputy, Nathan Roswell. Three years with the Drug Enforcement Administration and three previous to that as a cop have honed her skills for keeping her identity secret. OPERATION: MISTLETOE sparkles with holiday joy as once again author Roxanne Rustand demonstrates her gift for capturing the essence of relationships with rich complexity and intriguing possibility. Sara's family story proves both shocking and fascinating as it complicates her relationship with her mother and brother, and overshadows her return to her hometown. Further, the growing romance between Sara and Nathan proves to be compelling and touching as an intriguing plot unfolds. Secondary plots also capture the imagination with surprising secondary characters readers will come to love. OPERATION: MISTLETOE comes highly recommended.	2002-10-16
1378888:US	49693975	R2XSAMUSPHR7A7	1587761122	806862629	Yesterday's Dreams	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	As the unplayable bills mount, Kara O'Keefe makes the heart wrenching choice to pawn her beloved violin. Cancer has depleted her parent's finances, and the small amount Kara makes teaching does not compensate for the loss of her father's income. Her need leads Kara to Maggie McCormick at the shop called Yesterday's Dreams. Maggie recognizes the fiddle as a piece of Kara's soul. At the least, Kara can never realize her dreams without the violin. With the violin in Maggie's care, Kara will one day reclaim her dreams.<br />Meanwhile, a predatory power watches, eager to add both Kara and her violin to his collection of power tools. In a dark night of power and magic ten years ago, a vagrant was transformed into a malevolent being renamed Lucien Blank. Lucien overestimates his abilities; little suspecting that he is nothing more than the tool of the dark god Olcas. Lucien has become a collector of objects of power. Magic draws him to the door of Yesterday's Dreams and the things that lie shielded beyond.<br />Music and myth come together in a mesmerizing display of good and evil in YESTERDAY'S DREAMS by Danielle Ackley-McPhail. With a fascinating cast of characters, legendary elements take modern significance, including Sidhe elves, fairies, and gods. The result is a gripping and satisfying tale, one that at once evokes emotions, stimulates imagination, and causes reflection. Add Ackley-McPhail's YESTERDAY'S DREAMS to your keeper shelf, and eagerly begin waiting for the next installment of the series. This breath-taking novel earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-10-12
1378940:US	49693975	R1W60M0802QN50	1551669560	471645328	Marry A Man Who Will Dance	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Disappointing	One glimpse of Roque Moya Blackstone dancing by firelight set the course of Ritz Keller's life. It had all begun when her best friend describes seeing Roque swimming nude and stealing his clothes. So when her horse trespasses onto Blackstone land, Ritz has images of the half Mexican boy dancing by firelight in her mind. The reality is even more shocking, however, when she inadvertently stumbles upon him a private moment. Their subsequent tumultuous clash sets the tone for their relationship.<br />Roque's younger brother is the favored son. When Caleb and Ritz later become friends, emotions run high among family members. Tragedy strikes and Caleb dies in a car accident, and Ritz's brother is left a paraplegic. Soon after, Ritz intervenes before Roque can be beaten and takes him to Mexico. Although he has married someone else, they are intimate, and Ritz becomes pregnant. Tragedy strikes again, taking the life of their child. Ten years later Roque still bitterly blames Ritz for the death of their child. At her husband's funeral, Roque realizes that she is pregnant once again by him, and demands that she marry him, making the announcement there and then.<br />MARRY A MAN WHO WILL DANCE suffers from stilted or otherwise entangled phrasing, which will put off many English majors. Worse, readers will find the forced prose less difficult than the impossibly convoluted plot. On the other hand, this modern day Westside Story offers strong conflict, powerful motivation, and flawed, yet powerful characterizations. With a clash of cultures and fierce passion, MARRY A MAN WO WILL DANCE is still disappointing.	2002-10-12
1380005:US	49693975	R1GM9PEQ4F28YJ	0595093272	144194157	Doctor Janeway's Plague	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An arresting, chilling read -- Highly recommended	The mysterious Reverend Doctor Robert Janeway will do anything to escape his wretched existence. No one ever sees him eat; he only seems to consume dusky looking water. Like the golem of legend, Janeway is made of stone. Now changes are coming. Janeway avidly watches the skies, gazing at the shifting constellations. Invisible to the naked eye, a star is rising. Others see the changes recorded by their scientific instruments, but none suspect the danger the night sky will bring.<br />No one links Janeway, a respected academic, to the three deaths that occurred at the same time when a whore, a handicapped woman and a small child each die at the hands of someone they know and trust. Others die at his hands as well; each possessing something he needs to complete his cunning plan. Janeway's distant cousin Miriam Tailor also arrives in town, believing him to possess the key to immortality and desiring to learn his secrets. Janeway refuses to initiate Miriam into the process that caused his transformation, but he does find that she can be quite useful to his devious purposes.<br />Fans of Dean Koontz will find John Farrell's DOCTOR JANEWAY'S PLAGUE a fascinating read. Over four hundred years old, Janeway seeks an end to his existence irrespective of any moral or ethical considerations. The cast of characters ensnared by his purposes proves absolutely fascinating as they uncover an alarming plan. Indeed, this carefully plotted novel excels at providing the unexpected. A chilling tale of extraordinary power, DOCTOR JANEWAY'S PLAGUE provides enough pulse-pounding, page turning eeriness to keep readers burning the midnight oil. A vastly entertaining read, DOCTOR JANEWAY'S PLAGUE comes Highly recommended.	2002-10-11
1383172:US	49693975	R3SCAOJD99D66K	1590889622	772183144	Through All Time	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Delightful! Very highly recommended	A vision brings Soaring Hawk, an Ojibwe Indian in 1700 Northern Minnesota, a view of a world without trees and a woman with fair hair and blue eyes. He does not know he is seeing into the future -- 2250 to be exact -- the time of reporter Amaryllis \\"Rylla\\" Sheridan. Soon his vision comes true when Rylla visits a preserve, finds an arrowhead and unexpectedly timeports. Fortunately, Soaring Hawk chances upon her and takes her to his village.<br />Without knowing how she arrived, Rylla is at a loss as to how to return to her time. Technology makes communication easy, and soon she settles into life in the Ojibwe village. Fighting his attraction to her, Soaring Hawk refers to Rylla as Badger Woman because of her perchance for speaking her thoughts and her \\"lack of training.\\" Her ways sharply contrast his methodical, thoughtful actions and rationing of words. Despite their radical differences, Rylla and Soaring Hawk discover a love that can last through all time.<br />Judi Phillips pens a memorable time travel in THROUGH ALL TIME. With an understanding of Ojibwe culture, Phillips pens a tale rich in background and filled with dynamic characters. Soaring Hawk's attempts to maintain disdain of Rylla provides light humor to contrast his painful background. Rylla's disillusionment with relationships finds healing within the Ojibwe community. I find it interesting that she's one of the few time travel heroines that regret leaving behind a family she loves -- precluding the easy answers so typical of the genre. While the focus is of course romance, that theme does not entirely dominate the novel. The secondary plot involving Five Feathers reveals the value of community verses the need to act independently, thereby adding a rich texture to this multilayered tale. A delightful read, THROUGH ALL TIME comes very highly recommended.	2002-10-09
1383790:US	49693975	R3URGB07T6D95Z	1588512347	612087100	Savage Dawn	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Powerful! -- Very highly recommended	With their leader dead, the demonic Army of Darkness no longer poses a danger to the people of Karthanian. Vicious and cruel, demons only endanger those who travel alone or in small numbers; that is, until Rajah rises to power. Once one of the three magi, Rajah turned to darkness when a mind demon offered him tremendous power and glory. With his newfound supremacy, he raises the demons of Armagon to do his bidding.<br />Meanwhile, Ken Maxwell, nicknamed Demonslayer, still searches for his sons. Ten years ago they were kidnapped from earth, and Ken came to Karthania to find them. Jeremiah, his eldest son, underwent a horrible transformation, becoming an insane hybrid demon. Lewis still lives on Karthania, separated from his father and planning to marry. Then Jeremiah rapes his fiancé and kills Santa Claus' wife.<br />Author Jay Kraxton weaves a chilling tale of horror and suspense in SAVAGE DAWN. Part two of the Red Dawn trilogy, SAVAGE DAWN escalates the danger to create a chilling tapestry of good and evil. With graphic violence and sexual content, SAVAGE DAWN is not the faint of heart; however, these graphic sections are entirely within the scope of artistic content, necessitated by the very nature of the evil portrayed. Each strand of the plot reveals a chilling tapestry of cruelty and evil, with the Red Thunder the only hope against a vast demon army. The deftly drawn characterizations, particularly that of the descent of Rajah and Jeremiah into the depths of madness of depravity, will hold the reader's interest riveted to the very last page. A powerfully rendered tale that will leaves more than ready for the final book of the series, SAVAGE DAWN comes very highly recommended.	2002-10-08
1383900:US	49693975	R1UEQC82VPY0ST	0821772449	445447827	The Healing (Men of Honor)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Rich characterizations make for a terrific read	Pregnant and desperate, Jenny Hanson shoots her lover at point blank range, burying his body beneath a pile of stones behind their lonely cabin. Her pregnancy has forced Jenny to reevaluate her life, and she knows she can only be free of Frank if he dies. She refuses to be a party to Frank Benz's thievery, or to allow him to continue to dominate her body and her will. He had once been the passionate lover who lured her away from prostitution with promises of wealth, but now his gambling gave way to thievery to feed his insatiable hungers. <br />Long ago Michael Finnegan learned to bury his fiery temper beneath a veneer of careful self-control. Mistakes of his youth motivate him to dedicate his life the North West Mounted Police. He believes himself to be unworthy of a wife and family. When he comes to Jenny's rescue in a whorehouse, however, he never expects her to repay the favor by saving his life. Mike cannot shake the feeling that he has met Jenny before, nor can he deny the passion that ignites his sensibilities when she is around. <br />Author Kathryn Fox's gift for creating flawed, endearing characters that touch reader's hearts results in another memorable read with THE HEALING. On one hand, Jenny's wayward past and intrepid spirit result in a dynamic heroine who determinedly survives devastating choices and circumstances. Remarkably, she makes no apology for how she has lived with her life, taking full responsiblity for her decisions. On the other hand, Mike's painful fast likewise endears him to readers, but it is his tenderness and understanding that truly endears him to readers. You have to love a hero that treasures his beloved's physical scars like badges of honor, recognizing them as testimony to her strength of spirit. Indeed, Mike does not regard Jenny's history as a prostitute or her child by another man as negative, always respecting the woman who can create a life for herself and her child in spite of the challenges thrown her way. Both Jenny andMike are need of and find the healing that they want and deserve in this marvelously rendered novel. THE HEALING comes very recommended.	2002-10-08
1388735:US	49693975	R196FQ1SW2MIL3	0373690975	688096374	Tall, Dark and Daring (Temptation, 897)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A sensual treat -- Very highly recommended	A dare brings Tessa O'Neal full circle. Her boss and best friend bets that Tessa cannot stay out of Mitch Ryder's bed for a week while she takes care of his marketing campaign. Mitch was Tessa's first love and the man she compares all others to, which might account for one divorce and one broken engagement. Now Tessa returns to the beautiful Adirondack Mountains of upstate New York, the site of her first love, to prove her resistance to the man she thinks of as aphrodisiac on legs. After all, Tessa figures she can survive Mitch's appeal for seven days.<br />Eight years ago Mitch had no intentions of offering Tessa forever. He doesn't intend forever now. After all, he isn't the kind of guy she really wants. Now Mitch needs Tessa's marketing finesse to make Mogul Ryders' new product line a success, although he doubts Ms. Trench Coat and Heels still retains that adventuresome spirit that brought them together. Nevertheless, Mitch intends to complete the business side of their relationship and then recapture that chemistry they once shared, at least temporarily. Then he learns she only plans to stick around a week, which raises the stakes considerably.<br />Author Joanne Rock sets off an inferno when she reunites old flames in TALL, DARK, AND DARING. Rock proves that just seven days can transform lives. Mitch's salesman skills matches Tessa's own as he teaches her to have fun again, but the consequences defy his expectations. Tessa's gradual relaxing as she catches snowflakes and savors bobsledding reveals an enticing exuberance that makes her an incredibly engaging character. Moreover, The author's savvy understanding of the need for compromise in modern relationships makes the novel sparkle, even as Rock deftly reveals the sensual longings, the secret wounds, and the hidden desires of a couple who has buried their secret needs. A sensual treat, TALL, DARK, AND DARING comes very highly recommended.	2002-10-03
1388981:US	49693975	RB5Q718FPOI7H	0373691009	692804759	Short, Sweet And Sexy  (Single In The City)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	A.J. is the misfit of the Potter family. Her goal, since she was seven and came to live with her very proper aunt and uncle has been to prove the differences between herself and her impulsive mother. That burden has inspired her to move from the family home into a lovely Central Park address and leads to her introduction to two wonderful roommates and one one-magnet skirt.<br />Skirt trance leads to a bit of distraction for Sam Romano. His security firm has been hired to ensure the safety of the Abelard necklace, so when he sees his own godfather circumvent security and enter the museum hours before its opening, he intends to stop the jewelry heist, returning the precious gems to their rightful place before anyone knows the difference. Unfortunately, skirt memorization allows the situation to escalate, and soon Sam finds himself with a new partner and major distraction.<br />The man-magnet skirt returns in a new sassy adventure in SHORT, SWEET AND SEXY, a luxuriant blend of fabulous characterizations and suspense. A.J. and Sam are a studied clash of opposites despite their shared certainty that each has found \\"the one.\\" A.J.'s determination to not disappoint her family by imitating her mother's behavior becomes strong motivation that both challenges and inspires her. Sam's disappointment in his godfather blinds him to the possibilities that A.J. never abandons. Secondary characters likewise sparkle, especially Franco, A.J.'s doorman, who promises to make a return in the next three books of the series. Complete with neurotic dogs, a flamboyant supporting cast, and plenty of passion, SHORT, SWEET AND SEXY earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-10-03
1389015:US	49693975	R1XVTOT3K2F3J2	1583456244	123594752	Lady Killer	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award of Excellence	A woman stalks sophisticated black men with a flair for easily picking up ladies and just as easily dropping them. Striking back at men has become her mission. She keeps a canine tooth as a token because men are dogs. <br />The killer's latest victim just happens to be the brother of Detective Jasper \\"Jaz\\" Ballantine. GQ had been Jaz's only brother, and their adoptive father was the former chief of police. The current chief of police, on a vendetta, intends to bury the case even when evidence indicates a serial killing.<br />Dhana knows that it does not make sense to divorce a man for incapability, and three years later fall back in his arms. But when GQ's murder brings her and Jaz back together, irrepressible passion ignites. Jaz and Dhana best step carefully as this case grows even more personal. <br />Author Gail McFarland lends the term \\"lady killer\\" a unique twist in this novel by the same name. LADY KILLER ignites on the first page, twisting escalating violence, unrelenting tension and chilling intentions into a deftly woven tapestry of exhilarating suspense. McFarland's gift for believable characterizations, powerful drama, and shocking events will leave reader's hoping for more from this memorable author. LADY KILLER earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-10-03
1389060:US	49693975	R38HFOWGMJ0QHD	0373441517	19710245	A Royal Mess / Her Knight to Remember (Harlequin Duets: Red-Hot Royals)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Breaking royal molds -- Very highly recommended	Author Jill Shalvis takes advantage of a continuity series and a dash of magic to create a dazzling romantic romp in this Duets combination: A ROYAL MESS and HER KNIGHT TO REMEMBER. These nonconformist and resourceful princesses break all royal molds as they land themselves in marvelously unexpected escapes. While their heroes might be the perfect princes, it takes more to capture a princess' heart than just puckering up. In addition, readers will find it impossible to resist a princess on the plump side of average, or a tomboy decked in pink frills, especially when trouble follows everywhere. Furthermore, these heroes are everyday working Joes with the kind of hearts to prove themselves worthy of royalty. Indeed, Shalvis once again proves her gift for dramatic flair with this amusing duet: A ROYAL MESS and HER KNIGHT TO REMEMBER come very highly recommended.<br />A ROYAL MESS: Cowboy Timothy Banning would rather sleep than chat with the leather-clad juvenile delinquent next him on the flight home to Texas. When he learns the silver-studded, spiked beauty is twenty-four rather than twelve, however, Tim cannot continue to ignore her. Especially when her fear of flying leads to the impulsive gesture of holding her hand. That moment later leads to rescuing her in the rain when a thief disappears with her ID and baggage. But Tim refuses to believe Natalia Brunner really is a princess when he invites her home for a few days so she can get back on her feet.<br />HER KNIGHT TO REMEMBER: Princess Andrea Brunner despises the layers of pink ruffles that comprise her bride's maid dress as much as police officer Kyle Moore dislikes his pink cummerbund. Then a thug with a gun interrupts their fittings and Andrea saves Kyle from the bad guy. Unfortunately, Kyle does not feel very appreciative after she bites him twice and refuses to follow his orders. But he had best watch his step, or Kyle will find himself swept away by this princess who refuses to do hysterics or go into shockwhen faced with a gun.	2002-10-03
1389454:US	49693975	R26VCOW38IAKSG	0373764650	273066313	Taming the Outlaw (Man of the Month)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	An invitation to be the grand marshal of the Fourth of July parade brings rodeo rider Cutter Reno back to his hometown of Sundown. A string of winning championships have won him the town's acclaim. But the one person he is really interested in seeing again does not welcome him back with open arms.<br />Peg Lathrop knew that forever just was not something Cutter has to give. She never intended to tame his free spirit, but she is certainly not ready to repeat that summer of six years ago. She lives with the consequences every day, and while she would not change a thing, her heart cannot survive a second onslaught. <br />In TAMING THE OUTLAW, author Cindy Gerard dazzles readers with heart rendering situations and deeply emotional characters. Peg bears the wounds of a loving and leaving rodeo man; Cutter does not even know the consequences of their short time together six years ago. Peg knows better than to try to lasso a rodeo man; Cutter does not believe he has what it takes to be a stable, stay at home kind of guy. Yet together they create magic that leaves them both longing for more. Add this one to your keep keeper shelf! TAMING THE OUTLAW earns the Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-10-03
1389711:US	49693975	R2R88PTLWSY40H	0505525216	818412883	Bait & Switch (Love Spell Contemporary Romance)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	When Twin Cary arrives on his doorstep, Mitch quickly realizes his brother is in trouble again. In debt to his bookie, Cary has devised a plan to extricate himself from trouble at Mitch's expense. These mirror image twins will simply set the bait, and then switch places. Mitch will make the arrest and Cary will be off the hook with minimum fuss. Even Peyton, Cary's lady friend, cannot tell them apart.<br />Cary does not appreciate Mitch's risk to his career or his kneecaps, since criminals notoriously break bones in reprisal for nonpayment of debts. Worse, Mitch's ethics do not allow romantic attachments to any woman currently or previously involved with his brother. In addition, Peyton's capricious nature ensures rather unpredictable results with one sure conclusion: she inspires wicked desires and wild fantasies. Too bad Mitch cannot be quite sure if she is falling for him, or his mirror image.<br />The author of THE MISCONCEPTION is back with a lively twin switch that brings sparkling hilarity in BAIT & SWITCH. The zany plot keeps the pace quick even as the characters come vividly to life. While the unifying plot is quite serious, the tone remains light and snappy. Indeed, Mitch must be the only hero in history to be sent on errand to collect on debt for a bookie, and lend the subject money rather than breaking bones! The dominate theme of identity and being true to one's self keeps the readers amused right down to the secondary plot with its playful twists. With strong characters, funny dialogue, and a strong element of sensual tease, BAIT & SWITCH earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-10-03
1389746:US	49693975	R247ZLR9A8GNAV	0373790619	22153618	Breathless (Harlequin Blaze, No 57)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Directionally challenged Sophie Morton wanders into the wrong side of town, and witnesses a man threatening a woman with a gun. Without hesitation, she leaps out of her car, landing the suspicious man on his back on the sidewalk. Too bad she just tackled the good guy, and the bad woman escapes in Sophie's car. Worse, she not only assaulted a police officer, but she also broke his leg!<br />Detective Blake Barker cannot help being bowled over by the bodacious woman. Such a hellcat holds his attention, especially when he realizes she might be remotely connected to his case. Further, Sophie's knack for losing her way and blundering into trouble, whether she is disarming a cop or discovering a blackmail scheme, arouses his interest. And her love for opera promises shared passion both in bed and out. <br />Author Nancy Warren pens a fast romp of erotic sensuality, blackmail and fraud in BREATHLESS. Blake careens between offense and intrigue with Sophie. This hero proves himself as a strong alpha male who wants to protect Sophie from danger, even as he needs her cooperation in his investigation...both professionally and personally. His arrogant, highhanded aggressiveness annoys Sophie while their shared lust drives them both crazy. Sophie is a refreshingly modern woman who enjoys her sensuality with exuberance; indeed, she is the bold, daring lover most women often fantasize of becoming. Further, her boldness extends beyond the bedroom whether she is assaulting a cop or simply stating her mind. Readers will find themselves breathless but satisfied with this marvelously fun novel. BREATHLESS earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-10-03
1391876:US	49693975	R1AM42X3R050ZX	0451207300	243991507	Final Epidemic:: A Novel of Medical Suspense	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Lethal intensity - Very highly recommended	Deep in the outcropping of the desolate, frozen tundra a few degrees above the Artic Circle, men recover century old bodies to harvest a virus that can wipe out an entire population. They are Aum Truthseekers, men devoted a religious cult, and willing to die at their leader's command. When their leader was found guilty of murder in a court of law and given the death penalty, the judges who condemned him as a madman rather than a savior then unwittingly condemned themselves as well. <br />Dr. Carol Mayer would rather enjoy the waters of Choctawatchee Bay than deal with a sudden influx of upper respiratory complaints. But when a patient dies in her waiting room, she realizes this is not the ordinary flu. She reports the epidemic to the Centers for Disease Control, but only one man can possibly locate a hoped-for vaccine: Beck Casey.<br />Beck is a former CIA expert on biological warfare, where he held a job he once believed only existed in fiction. When he fell in the hands of the Russian Mafia, enduring interrogation and torture, Beck nearly died. He returned to the State an empty man, retiring from the CIA, and accepted temporary teaching positions in universities across the country. Now his country needs his expertise in epidemics, pandemics and bioplagues, as well as the social breakdown they create. Worse, his recall requires him to work hand and glove with the people who nearly destroyed him.<br />Author Earl Merkel pens a novel of lethal intensity in FINAL EPIDEMIC. Readers will be interested to note that Penguin/Putnam originally scheduled FINAL EPIDEMIC for publication last year, but it was delayed following the September 11, 2001 attack because of content. Terrorism, warfare, and horrific situations all make FINAL EPIDEMIC a chillingly timely novel that confronts the moral and ethical issues of stemming a plague that can wipe out eighty percent of the world's population. In only four days, this virus leaves leaders with impossible scenarios, with no cure andno recovery. Riots raze cities, public buildings burn and quarantine and martial law are ineffective. This shifting narrative allows the reader a glimpse of cross cultural issues, cultist and militia mentality, and personal ramifications. A tense, roller coaster ride that readers will find impossible to put down, FINAL EPIDEMIC comes very highly recommended.	2002-10-01
1392272:US	49693975	R16QJG6LH684P	0373790651	183654163	The Ultimate Seduction (Harlequin Blaze, No 61)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Fabulous use of an amnesia plot -- Very highly recommended	Nine months ago Natalie Hastings came to Oakland, California seeking anonymity and safety. A long time boyfriend turned stalker betrayed her ability to trust or enter into intimate relationships. Despite her determination to remain aloof, however, Natalie cannot resist entertaining very erotic fantasies concerning Noah Sommers, a regular patron of the restaurant where she waitresses. Nevertheless, she dare not yield to her beckoning need for a wild, reckless adventure with this hottie.<br />Repeated rebuffs cannot discourage Noah's interest in Natalie. One night he finally persuades Natalie to allow him to walk her to her car -- a fortunately decision when Natalie recognizes her dreaded stalker nearby. To Noah's surprise, Natalie flings herself at him, giving him an incredible kiss. When she tears herself away and flees, Noah follows Natalie, but he cannot prevent her from running out in front of a car. After her transportation to the hospital, Noah pretends to be her fiancé so he can remain close. He never expected the situation to escalate and for Natalie to indeed believe them to be engaged!<br />Fans will recognize Noah Sommers from Janelle Denison's previous two \\"Seduction\\" books and be pleased that he has at last earned his own story - and what a terrific tale THE ULTIMATE SEDUCTION is! Noah's aura of seduction and sin deserves the equally tempting Natalie. The selective use of amnesia as a plot devise allows an unexpected advantage: Natalie forgets her fears and allows her passionate nature to dazzle Noah. Further, does not belabor the amnesia issue, allowing it reach a graceful resolution with her surprising reactions. As a result, Denison once again demonstrates her consummate skill for remarkable characterizations and a delightful plot, in addition to a marvelous blend of romance and erotica. THE ULTIMATE SEDUCTION comes very highly recommended.	2002-09-30
1392929:US	49693975	R1O9L5ZIJVBBM3	1894869575	770441903	THE RELUCTANT COMMANDER: Book 2 in the Neophyte Warrior Series	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	With urgent messages arriving that warn of extraordinary numbers of French troops, General Washington cannot properly equip or feed his untrained troops. British colonies will not survive if the French and Indian allies are successful in seizing an Appalachian frontier stretching from Georgia in the southwest to New Hampshire in the northeast. Worse, those British men in charge of decision-making underestimate the challenges faced by troops attempting to move across the American wilderness. Consequently, it falls to Washington to find his own answers to dealing with the French. The pressure on young George Washington is enormous. <br />Meanwhile, British deserter Pariah West, now called Stump Neck and regarded as a shaman, prepares his own ambushes for the British. The psychopath takes pleasure in bloodbath and mayhem, refusing to yield even to the caution of his mentor. Other young, headstrong, ruthless Indians follow is lead into barbarism, believing that the elimination of the British will leave them in control of Indian trade. They also believe that by killing their enemies in ritualistic ceremonies they will inherit the spiritual powers of their victims. <br />Author Richard Patton creates a powerful historical drama in THE RELUCTANT COMMANDER, bringing little know historical detail to the narrative that makes the story incredibly vibrant. Patton skillfully captures the essence of Washington's struggles, showing that defeating the enemy may create more problems than it can solve. His temporary promotion to full colonel leaves him ill prepared to cope with the logistical and political challenges presented by the American wilderness. The plot comes dynamically alive as soldiers struggle with storms and wet gunpowder, hunger and three wheeled wagons. Readers will sympathize with the impossible situation in which Washington finds himself, even as they cheer his determination to the right thing. On the other hand, Pariah West's deterioration into madness provided achilling subplot. A powerful drama that will leave readers eager for the next installment of the series, THE RELUCTANT COMMANDER earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-09-30
1397081:US	49693975	R2U3SVHHVGKKFK	0758204175	313229825	I Brake for Bad Boys	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Sexy, naughty and erotic - Very highly recommended	Business makes for bad boy bedfellows in the fantastic anthology I BRAKE FOR BAD BOYS. Authors Lori Foster, Janelle Denison and Shannon McKenna blend their unique voices for this titillating, hot anthology. Each author adds a unique twist to the perennial bad boy theme. A combination not to be missed, I BRAKE FOR BAD BOYS comes very highly recommended.<br />\\"Drive Me Wild\\" by Lori Foster: Three best friends and a dare land Erica in a titillating fantasy come true when Ian proposes that they bypass the porn shop dare and move straight to the bedroom games. Erica's cocky defiance and take charge attitude longs for the tender domination of this rebellious bad boy. A gutsy, risqué premise that achieves sensual delight, \\"Drive Me Wild\\" will have readers unexposed to the previous two stories of this series headed straight to the bookstore. <br />\\"Something Wilde\\" by Janelle Denison: Eric cannot help wondering if the creativity and enthusiasm Jill exhibits in the boardroom would extend to the bedroom. But Jill refuses to combine business with pleasure until Eric presents himself as her fantasy lover. This \\"Wilde, untamable bad boy\\" only wants one woman in his bed, and will not take no for an answer. Denison perfectly captures the spontaneous, combustible, impulsive moments that have made her one of the industry's brightest stars.<br />\\"Touch Me\\" by Shannon McKenna: The gouges on her client's back prove Jonah's bad boy tendencies. Tess has heard that he is trouble; that he's too intense; and that he's fixated on her. But when he offers to let her call the rules, demand her pleasure, and allow him to server her, Tess cannot walk away. Shannon McKenna proves her erotic, endearing style to be on par with two of the industry's hottest writers with \\"Touch Me.\\"	2002-09-26
1399787:US	49693975	R1D6055N0JU5FE	0373272502	503154719	All A Man Can Do  (Trouble In Eden) (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Superb romantic tension -- Highly recommended	Jarek Denko gave up the big city streets to become a police chief in the backwater town of Eden. He hopes the small community can fill whatever is missing from his daughter's life. Then a red light assault casts suspicion on his department, and Jarek does not know who he can trust. His controlled demeanor has earned him the nickname Ice Man, but reporter Tess DeLucca easily sparks an inconvenient attraction. Worse, his best suspect happens to be her brother. Moreover,<br />Tess does not believe in the police keeping secrets and he does not believe in anyone getting in the way of his investigation. Tess questions why Jarek refuses to talk about his failed marriage or young daughter. Tess does not do cops, and she does not do families. She already raised her brother Mark, who is often irresponsible, unreliable and infuriating. For years she cared for her alcoholic mother as well. She does not need another family to add to her responsibilities. Unfortunately, Jarek's kisses can make her shudder and melt, causing her to forget her plan to remain dispassionate, objective and in control. <br />Author Virginia Kantra begins her miniseries Trouble in Eden with ALL A MAN CAN DO. While they might not have much else in common, Jarek and Tess share a profound need to protect their personal lives. I admit to thoroughly enjoying this mature hero and heroine who struggle with the emotional baggage that comes with age. Indeed, author Kantra deftly captures the deepest and most intense emotions with grace, exposing the most profound moments of living with compassion and intensity. Despite the gravity of personal challenges, however, the beauty of the growing romance between Jarek and Tess adds a sparkling hope and joy to Kantra's novel that makes these characters uniquely memorable. Add a suspenseful plot and the result is a highly entertaining read.	2002-09-23
1400363:US	49693975	R3V3V8Y0MGS233	0595092934	83662705	A Legend Untold (Red Thunder, Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Dark fantasy/horror - Very highly recommended	On wings of silent leather, the demon Krampus slips into children's bedrooms, stealing them from the safety of their beds for his evil purposes. Meanwhile, Kris Kringle and his three magi, Raja, Thaddeus and Ishmael (part of a group called Red Thunder) fulfill their night of miracles when the call comes about Krampus' movement through Seattle.<br />Thaddeus goes to the scene of a disappearance, quickly recognizing the increase in the number of stolen children. While the demon ordinarily only takes six or seven children a year, this year he has taken dozens. The implications are terrifying. Krampus visits Jeremiah and Louis Maxwell's room as well, stealing the children and leaving their father Ken Maxwell bereft. A widower, Ken lives for his sons, and will do anything to get them back. He did not know anything would include an alternate world and demonic forces beyond his imagination. <br />From the most exquisite to the most gruesome landscapes of author Jay Kraxton's fertile imagination, readers will be drawn into a surreal landscape of horrifying dimensions in A LEGEND UNTOLD. The unique plot is both clever and gripping as portrays Santa's time off and the battle for peace on earth. Thematically, Jay Kraxton will remind fans of Stephen King or Dean Koontz with its dark overtones and deathly ghouls, but this author's style, which uniquely blends fantasy and realism, remains uniquely his own. Vividly realized characterizations bring to life the various Clauses, including Kris Kringle, Father Christmas and Senior Santa, and the three magi with exceptional powers. A dark fantasy of epic proportions, readers will find A LEGEND UNTOLD impossible to put down. Very highly recommended.	2002-09-23
1401725:US	49693975	RDW00VSDNM5LR	0803495447	469138958	Hometown Reunion	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An endearing romance -- Highly recommended	High school graduation brought about a choice for Christina Marie Pierce between the boy she loved and acceptance at John Hopkins. Christi accepted Roger's proposal, only to return to hometown fifteen years later the single mother of two sons. While some things never change, like the local teen hang out The Pit when teens can eat ribs and talk all night. Other things change profoundly, like the former valedictorian of Miracle High School, whose brains only surpass his nerdiness. <br />From geek to hunk, Glenn Stark challenged Christi in wits every day of high school, but the game seems to be a lot more fun now. Glenn only returns to his hometown long enough to regroup following a layoff and to prepare the way for his business idea. Then he will be off to Chicago to corner the telecommunications market. Nothing could waylay his plans, except the girl he never forgot. Neither Glenn nor Christi are ready for a relationship complete with small town interference. Further, Christi defines success as permanence and roots. Success for Glenn requires a big city and big dreams. <br />Author Cynthia Scott pens an endearing romance about lost dreams and new discoveries in HOMETOWN REUNION. The Miracle high school reunion offers healing and love for Christi and Glenn, but only if they are bold enough to be honest about their true wishes and desires. Their humorous clashes and witty repartee regale the reader with amusing moments to juxtapose painful pasts. Secondary characters, especially Glenn and Christi's parents, likewise keep the humor coming as they provide their own fuel for small town gossip. A delightful read, HOMETOWN REUNION comes highly recommended.	2002-09-21
1401769:US	49693975	RQXIBCXRBFLQ4	0373690991	712496318	Tongue - Tied	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Extreme stuttering makes ordinary conversation virtually impossible for twenty-six year old Robin Lee. Her dreams of graduating from college reach a sudden halt when a professor humiliates her in front of the entire class, leading to her withdrawal from the university. Even her job at the local diner becomes a tremendous challenge when she must fill in for a waitress who storms off the job. Then in a stunning moment of bold attitude, Robin overcomes her inability to speak by allowing her body to speak for her.<br />Johnny Dayton does not know the horrible day Robin has endured. Nor does he hear the whispered gossip from the students at another table. He only focuses on the legal papers in front of him as he prepares for a board meeting the next day. Then suddenly the most beautiful woman he has ever met stuns him with a lip lock from heaven. When he comes up for air, Johnny recognizes his best friend's kid sister, and suddenly Robin becomes the bridge to a time when life was less complicated and more understandable. And he wants more; a lot more.<br />Colleen Collin's unique approach to communication lends TONGUE-TIED a dynamically erotic twist. On one hand, Robin may not be able to speak her mind, but her body expresses her needs and desires quite clearly. She also has a gift with her pen that allows intense self-expression. On the other hand, Johnny dislikes himself for the corporate man he has become, but Robin allows him to become the bold thinker had been before pr campaigns determined company lines. <br />Author Collin's meets the unique challenge of a mostly silent heroine with pizzazz, keeping the narrative lively even as she exploits the challenges of silence with grace. She carefully balances the mundane world with a sizzling world where words are unnecessary. Further, she gives her heroine a unique, powerful voice that combines sweetness and heat in a vibrant mix. Add TONGUE-TIED to your keep shelf! Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-09-21
1402044:US	49693975	R31K1T40Y1XHPS	1589391470	31335615	The Lady of the House	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Gripping psychological drama - Recommended	Jessica, divorced and mother of two, revels in the opportunity to periodically play the role of lady of the house when her friend Linda is away. Sipping iced tea at the poolside or borrowing a luxury car comes as quite an escape from breast-feeding and money worries. She happens to be at Linda's and offers iced tea to a sexy lawn care man one afternoon. Jessica has no idea that her pretense will lead to a life-threatening situation.<br />Three men arrive dressed in sky masks, grabbing Linda and demanding to know the location of the lady of the house. Linda's protestations go unheeded, and only Jessica's timely intervention prevents worse damage by a knife. The men throw Jessica in the back of a van and transport her to a farm, planning to demand a ransom from her wealthy family. Little do they suspect they have the wrong woman.<br />Author Roy King reveals a powerful talent for creating gripping psychological drama with THE LADY OF THE HOUSE. While readers may find the first fifty pages a bit slow, as the pace increases they will be swept away by convincing characterizations and powerful drama. The vicious and dangerous perpetrators keep readers glued to the pages as Jessica struggles against horrifying circumstances with fierce determination. Her willingness to sacrifice herself and offer herself as victim when her friend's life is endangered, her ability to survive isolation, torture and rape each reveal surprising strength and resilience. Secondary characters likewise sparkle, including her new boyfriend and wealthy friends who offer to pay her ransom. Some readers, especially women, may find the level of perversion and brutality objectionable. THE LADY OF THE HOUSE comes recommended.	2002-09-21
1402216:US	49693975	R1UZW7SJZDX1IV	044661128X	26063804	Still Mr. & Mrs.	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Romantic tension reaches a new height - Highly recommended	Margaret Riordan, \\"Crazy Daisy and mother to the president\\", soundly earns her reputation of irascible behavior, even taking pot shots at the Secret Service assigned to protect her. When her housekeepers leave for an extended vacation, Margaret appeals to her son to locate some help. She quickly catches on that her new domestic help are really more Secret Service people assigned to her protection, but she does not know of the new threat against her life. <br />A married couple is assigned to guard the president's mother, attempting to maintain their cover even after Margaret may have caught on. Unfortunately, they have also been separated for almost a year, while neither can remove the ring from their finger. But Special Agent Angela Holland's life has moved on, with a hunky movie star pursuing her favors and begging her to see a lawyer so that he might place his own ring upon her finger. <br />A year and a half ago, Special Agent Bobby Holland's brother died in the line of duty. With horrible parents, Bobby had always looked after his kid brother, even talking him into signing up with the Secret Service. All of his life Bobby has fiercely guarded his emotions, carefully repressing his feelings. Sadly, it was his inability to express his grief over his kid brother's death that finally drove Angela out the door. Now Angela must act as cook, and Bobby as butler, in an effort protect the president's mother. The question remains as to who will protect them from each other, or their own hearts.<br />Author Mary McBride demonstrates a dazzling gift for creating unforgettable characters and ridiculously comedic moments in STILL MR. AND MRS. McBride achieves an unusually balanced authorial tone, maintaining a sizzling chemistry between Angela and Bobby without the graphic details common to much contemporary romance. Angela desperately needs Bobby to reveal his heart to her, and his initial effort to \\"wear his heart on his sleeve\\" is both amusing and poignant. Their maritalstruggles are convincing, humorous, and endearing as they struggle with a tiny bed and broken hearts. While readers may be a bit skeptical of a first mother's resentment of protection, Margaret's powerful character will quickly earn the heart of the most discerning reader. This fast paced romantic suspense will keep the pages turning and comes highly recommended.	2002-09-21
1402327:US	49693975	R29C7K1R4J3LBJ	0743300653	67790565	3: Lightning Play: Light Play Trilogy	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A powerful reading experience -- Very highly recommended	Richard Lockmann can generate enough nutrients from a light source to sustain himself, thereby providing the answer to world hunger. He also has the source of antibodies that ensure safety in the face of a possible worldwide plague. On the one hand, the Defensive Security Office (DOS) protects Rick's life. On the other hand, others determinedly fight to control the man worth more to research dead than alive.<br />A man who has always treasured his privacy and solitude, Rich grows sick of being under a microscope. He delights in playing games with his keepers, toying with them, causing trouble. Rick also finds it difficult to know whom he can trust. As events come to head, he realizes that he will have to use every gift his mutation provides if he is to ensure the destruction of Denaro's remains, and the end of the virus that transformed him.<br />Author ND Hansen-Hill completes the Light Plays trilogy with LIGHTNING PLAYS. A captivating, eerie, and addictive series, Light Plays grows stronger with each book, with LIGHTNING PLAYS providing a blockbuster finale. Readers will find it impossible to put down this sophisticated blend of science fiction, suspense and horror. With Hansen-Hill's typical cast of memorable and eccentric characters, the author spins a tale of horror and mystery that will delight both fans and initiates alike. Rick especially challenges any preconceptions of what it takes to be \\"human\\", proving his mutant blend might actually be the most humane of all. Fans will immediately recognize Hansen-Hill's brand of humor and satire, which nicely counterbalance the darker motifs which are also a signature of the author's work. Replete with various subplots and secondary characters, LIGHTNING PLAYS provides a powerful reading experience. Very highly recommended.	2002-09-21
1402374:US	49693975	R378TUJI31A6C0	0373272510	11048958	The Cop Next Door (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1181)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	The contents of safety deposit box send Victoria Blake back to Bon Terre, the home of her roots. She grew up believing a devastating fire twenty-five years ago took her family home and her mother's life, sending her father into a reclusive recovery in Nova Scotia. Her father's dementia has allowed clues to past surface -- a past about which Tori knows nothing. When her father dies, Tori returns to the family home to learn that it had not burned down; instead, it was the site of a double homicide.<br />When the cop next door sees lights in the old house, he assumes teens have slipped in again. He certainly never expects this ghost from the past. When he was eight Ian Montague discovered the bodies, shattering his life forever. The town has not forgotten the Blake family, nor does it offer forgiveness to the daughter of Russell Blake. Nevertheless, Ian had obsessively searched for little Vicky for years and had finally concluded that she was dead. Now her sudden reappearance threatens to resurrect dangerous secrets that could tear their worlds apart.<br />Author Jenna Mill's consummate skill of creating fascinating storylines with memorable characters once again dazzles readers in THE COP NEXT DOOR. As the intricacies of the past meet the passions of the present, the careful complexity of the plot will keep readers guessing until the end. When he looks at Tori, Ian invests the deadly sins of the father on the daughter, unable to separate her from the past. Unfortunately, so does the whole town, casting Tori into an unexpectedly dangerous game. On the other hand, years of an over protective father's care has made Tori fiercely independent and terribly reluctant to rely on the cop next door for safety. Despite their past, however, neither Tori nor Ian can simply ignore the other. The result is an intense, fast-paced and cleverly crafted tale that will appeal to readers who like their romance on the dangerous side. THE COP NEXT DOOR earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-09-21
1402396:US	49693975	R2KTGTSXMKPJ1O	0821773739	137810860	The Runaway Duke (Zebra Ballad Romance)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Lady Catherine intends to see her younger brother, the eighth Duke of Chatham, Jonathan Carlisle married. Nine mistresses in ten years have kept Jonathan satisfied, and he has no intention of falling in with his sister's matchmaking. So he ducks her introductions to yet more eligible women by escaping with friend Bertram Lewis on a \\"very urgent business trip.\\" When Bertram cancels at the last minute, Jonathan sets out alone, only to be threatened at gunpoint by kidnappers. Then a flash of lightening startles his horse and he is thrown from his horse over a cliff.<br />Sighted clinging to a log, Jonathan is rescued from the waters and cared for by Dr. Edger Pickering and his daughter Melanie. Recognizing that his damaged fine clothes indicate wealth, the doctor and Melanie carefully conceal their identity. Melanie's eight-year-old son does not speak, so does not represent a threat to their anonymity. When he awakens from his coma, Jonathan immediately realizes that Melanie is keeping secrets. Fearful she might be part of the kidnapping plot, he claims amnesia. Soon they find themselves fighting their mutual attraction and the truths they both conceal.<br />In the most endearing installment yet of the infamous Lady Cat's family, THE RUNAWAY DUKE combines mystery and romance in a marvelously entertaining read. Melanie's determination to protect her son lends her character startling strength given the years of abuse she endured at her deceased husband's hands. Jonathan's certainty that she is the woman for him despite the impediments between them will warm reader's hearts as he determinedly seeks the answers to Melanie's problems. Further, the exciting conclusion provides a powerful climax to this carefully plotted tale. An absolutely memorable read, THE RUNAWAY DUKE earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-09-21
1406576:US	49693975	R3POT10XZY5M0A	0966602161	844232498	Restless Spirit: A Sam Casey Mystery (Sam Casey Mystery) (Sam Casey Mysteries)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A chilling puzzle -- Very highly recommended	In 1985, Sixteen-year-old Catherine DeMarco took her secrets to the grave. Now her restless spirit speaks to Samantha Casey when she picks up a button unearthed at a construction site, bringing to life Catherine's murder. Her boyfriend was convicted of the gruesome crime and awaits execution. But Sam does not hear Jimmy Taggart's name. <br />Sam enlists the aid of Paul Goddard, the detective who had worked the brutal knifing. Paul's instinct has been that the crime was too obvious and too easily solved. The years since the crime have been personally arduous, and Paul's downward spiral only stops when Sam knocks at the door asking for his help. Skeptical of Sam's gifts, yet intrigued by the possibilities, Paul joins forces with Sam to find a killer. <br />Inspired by an actual 20-year-old unsolved murder that took place in the author's hometown, RESTLESS SPIRIT is an action-packed mystery that satisfies readers seeking an unusual police procedural. Fans of the series will appreciate Sam's new challenges as she combines pregnancy, on going suspension from the police force, and her need to understand her enigmatic husband. A deft touch of humor, as when Sam handles a flirtatious reporter who mistakes her for the hired help, will keep readers chuckling. SD Tooley's gift for combining powerful police drama, Indian mysticism, and mystery results in an exciting, chilling puzzle that is a real page turner.	2002-09-17
1411045:US	49693975	RUCRPPKFIYWJT	1929429851	667585050	Twenty-Six Pack	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Recommended with reservations	Twenty-six Pack is a collection of 27 short stories that take place mainly around the Massachusetts area. These stories all deal with subjects and material that most people choose to avoid. You'll read about dysfunctional relationships with dysfunctional people who live in a dysfunctional world and are mostly alcoholics, recovering alcoholics who go off the wagon, or drug abusers. <br />I feel that the book should be rated \\"R\\" or \\"XX.\\" Twenty-six Pack could easily be renamed Twenty-sex Pack because these stories have an abundance of graphic sexual content, language, and material not suited for everyone. If you take offense to such material, I strongly advise you to pass this one up. <br />However, if you're open minded and enjoy a good, fast read and like delving into the lives of couples who never seem to know how to relate to one another as well as to their own life situations, then this is the book for you. The theme thread running through each story is the abuse of alcohol and drugs and how it changes and mostly ruins relationships, leaving the main character alone with his \\"twenty-six pack\\" of beer to cry in.<br />Timothy Gager is a good storyteller, and he will keep you reading until the story's end. His cynical, dark humor of showing us dysfunctional people doing dysfunctional things, will keep you entertained and wondering what will happen to them. Personally, I found it hard to like or care about his characters, but he did evoke an emotion in me so that means he did his job as a writer. Mr. Gager, however, tends to build his women characters as very stereotypical; they're either used mainly as sex objects or they're total \\"[...]\\" with a capital \\"B.\\" The endings are a little abrupt and leave you feeling there should be more to the story or that the story needs to be fleshed out a little further. <br />I recommend this book for most people with a huge warning label attached about the graphic sexual content and language used throughout the book. Read at your own risk, grab a beer, and enjoy! <br />Susan Shelley	2002-09-12
1411152:US	49693975	R1G451LTGZXI6V	0971958610	609228572	Sweet Sacrifice	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Highly recommended	Inexplicably, kidnappers target Sash Adams and her brother Trent. Sash boldly assaults one kidnapper. Eluding his grasp, she searches the house for her brother only to realize he has been moved to another location. She makes good her desperate escape, seeking out a name she overheard spoken by the kidnappers.<br />When the strange woman approaches him, Brandon Plaine thinks she is crazy. There is no connection between this unemployed law school graduate and himself. Fame brings out all kinds of kooks, and he assumes she is just one more, albeit an attractive one. Then Sash mentions a few key words spoken by the kidnappers, and the situation becomes extremely personal. <br />Author Crystal Rhodes pens a fascinating romantic suspense in SWEET SACRIFICE. Bold and sassy, Sash allows no one to intimidate her in her quest to rescue her brother. She and Brandon initially clash; she does not like him and he does not trust her. Their clashes add a delightful tension to the narrative that neatly underscores the dire situation in which they find themselves. Sash does occasionally appear ungrateful, however, for Brandon's aid. Nevertheless, her tension and irresistibility are easily understood with her brother's life on the line. Rhodes' careful control of the narrative flow will keep readers hooked as they anxiously anticipate the next development. While the relationship between Sash and Brandon develops nicely, it is the suspense that keeps the pages turning. Highly recommended.	2002-09-12
1411989:US	49693975	R3SYN9BLUSB49C	0373710844	578470413	The Man in the Photograph (Harlequin Superromance No. 1084)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Compelling -- Highly recommended	Jillian refuses to believe Rob could be alive when the LAPD detective arrives on her doorstep bearing a photograph that bears a striking resemblance to her deceased husband. Rob was a truck driver, killed in an unfortunate accident when a sniper sent him over a mountainside. In the four years since his death, Jillian has studiously rebuilt her life, opening a successful business and raising her daughter alone. Suddenly this detective, Adam Ramsey, asks to have Rob's body exhumed for testing. With a simple photograph as proof that Rob might be alive, Adam destroys Jillian's hard earned peace.<br />Missing test results and missing evidence lead Adam to believe more was involved in Rob Sullivan's death than a random gunshot. Adam believes Rob's death was somehow also linked to the death of his former partner Bryce. Bryce's death four years ago sent Adam's life spiraling downward, ending in divorce and disillusionment. Now Adam needs to exhume the body of Jillian Sullivan's husband to prove his theory. If he can prove it, then his partner's death would not have been in vain. Perhaps then he could finally put his life and his career back together. <br />From California to Chicago, and through the jungles of Costa Rica, author Linda Style leads the reader through a tale of striking intensity in THE MAN IN THE PHOTOGRAPH. Style has a gift for creating intriguing settings and characterizations that allow the reader to escape to a world of danger, intrigue and passion. Some readers may be troubled that Jillian at times appears to be too ideal, as when she accepts her husband's child. However, Jillian's resourcefulness and ability to triumph over painful circumstances in the past gives her the courage and strength to face devastating truths with compassion and generosity. Adam's need for closure and to give his partner's death meaning provide him with powerful motivation. As a result, Jillian and Adam's combined quest for truth brings these unlikely characters together in a compelling romance. THE MAN IN THE PHOTOGRAPH comes highly recommended.	2002-09-11
1412119:US	49693975	R2A861KY82JLUL	0373710828	119597045	Maggie's Guardian: Count on a Cop (Harlequin Superromance No. 1082)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Second chances and new beginnings -- Recommended	Homicide detective Noah Gabriel stays out too late, drinks too much, and alienates his coworkers when he is not recounting his broken marriage. SIDS stole his daughter and destroyed his marriage to Tessa. But when Tessa calls for help, Noah springs into action, his heart still bound to the woman that turned her back on him.<br />Tessa moved to Boston to begin a new life, partnering with best friend David in a law firm. When she discovers David's brutally slain body, suspicion falls on her, and she calls Noah for help. Tessa becomes guardian to David's infant daughter Maggie, resurrecting old grief and old joy in equal measure. As tragedy becomes a springboard to new beginnings, Tessa and Noah must find a way to communicate about the past if they are going to find a way to find a murder, not to mention healing and love.<br />Author Anna Adams pens a tale of deep emotion and complex relationships in MAGGIE'S GUARDIAN. Savvy readers may discern the truth regarding David's death rather early in the book, but the wonderful dynamics between Tessa and Noah will still keep them hooked. As the infant Maggie provides an opportunity to reevaluate their lives by letting go of guilt and allowing them to express grief, the tender love that Noah and Tessa rediscover results in a lovely tale of second chances and new beginnings. MAGGIE'S GUARDIAN comes recommended.	2002-09-11
1412312:US	49693975	R30BP2RYQ6XUB4	037371081X	756153730	Listen to the Child: Creature Comfort (Harlequin Superromance No. 1081)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Challenging family dynamics -- Highly recommended	After removing one of the corgi's kidneys, Dr John McIntyre Thorn upbraids the owner, expressing his outrage that small dog's symptoms had been ignored. Only after a characteristic display of his irascible temper does Mac realize that Kit Lockhart is deaf. the corgi Kevlar is her hearing ear dog. Soon Mac finds Kit irresistible, yet her ability to control a conversation by simply turning away proves quite disconcerting to a man who demands complete control of his environment. <br />Kit's disability provides extraordinary challenges, as does her preteen daughter who struggles with her parent's divorce and the profound changes in her mother. Kit had never wanted to be anything but a police officer since she was five years old. Her hearing loss had deprived her of a sense of identity, as well as robbing her of the precious voice of her child. But like the four legged and the slithering patients that come to Creature Comfort for healing, Kit will find her own brand of healing within those four walls with the most disconcerting doctor of all.<br />Carolyn McSparren tackles challenging issues with deft skill and gentle understanding in LISTEN TO THE CHILD. Moments of humor, as when a shocking kiss receives catcalls and investigation, provide lighthearted relief in a story that explores challenging family dynamics and disability. McSparren gracefully captures the devastating effects of hearing loss in the poignant absence of a child's voice, the guilty fear of an ill pet, and the loss of valued career. As Kit struggles to redefine her existence, it might have been a bit more plausible to see her descend into rage and frustration at a world she cannot hear. Nevertheless, her valiant struggle to balance her needs against a disagreeable ex-husband, a town of cops privy to her personal life, and a vet with a hard edge that covers the heart of a marshmallow makes LISTEN TO THE CHILD a delightful read. Indeed, Mac's irritability and character growth make him an absolutely delightful hero. With each book of this continuity, I confess to loving the series as whole even more. Keep those animal tales coming! Highly recommended.	2002-09-11
1412376:US	49693975	R1Q10HRFRZ5C5X	0373441495	219891179	Once Upon A Tiara / Henry Ever After	Books	5	2	2	N	N	You must kiss a lot of frogs -- Very highly recommended	ONCE UPON A TIARA: Her Serene Highness, Princess Liliane Brunner of the sovereign principality of Grunberg comes to Blue Cloud, Pennsylvania hoping for delectable samples of peanut butter, M&Ms and hotdogs. She also wishes for a dashing American playboy with whom to loose her virginity; it is, after all, difficult to find the right man and the right moment with a nanny always luring nearby. A museum curator like Simon Tremayne, with his cowlick and a metallic King Tut tie, hardly seems likely to become prince charming. <br />HENRY EVER AFTER: Jana Vargas might be princess of the Gypsies, but she is a suspect for Sheriff Henry Russell. With the museum opening featuring the opening of crown jewels, Henry does not need the distraction of a fiery Gypsy with so many tourists and dignitaries in town. In the two years since Jana has led her ragtag band of gypsies for two years, always ensuring careful compliance to permits and laws. Nevertheless, Henry does not know if he feels danger or attraction.<br />Unexpected parallels add a delightful freshness and sense of continuity in Carrie Alexander's latest duet that includes ONCE UPON A TIARA and HENRY EVER AFTER. Her humor sparkles with a sense of magic and impossibility, bringing together the most unlikely heroes and heroines. While Liliane and Jana might have opposite demeanors, their quick tongues and zest for living reveals kindred spirits and a mutual perchance for trouble. Both Simon and Henry will be quite challenged to prove themselves the prince charming that the ladies deserve. With indomitable verve and provocative chemistry, Alexander creates a delightful read that comes very highly recommended.	2002-09-11
1412378:US	49693975	R24L42JJIOUHNU	0373710801	719375169	The Third Mrs. Mitchell: At the Carolina Diner (Harlequin Superromance No. 1080)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Second chances -- Very highly recommended	State trooper Pete Mitchell pulls over a woman driving a red Porsche for driving 84.7 on the interstate. The last person he expects to be driving is Mary Rose Bowdrey, the women to whom his first marriage lasted only thirty-six days. Despite her ten-year absence from New Skye, North Carolina, Pete never forgot her. And despite his vow to remain single after a second failed marriage, Mary Rose's sudden reappearance in his life may change everything.<br />After her divorce, Mary Rose left her hometown to attend college, finding success in Charleston working in the world of finance and earning a healthy salary that buys luxuries like a Porsche and a lakeside condo. Now her sister faces divorce and her teen niece Kelsey and nephew Trace react with self-destructive behavior, getting in trouble with the law. When the judge sentences Kelsey and Trace to Pete's rehabilitation program for troubled teens, Mary Rose and Pete find themselves irresistibly drawn together.<br />The At the Carolina Diner continuity kicks off with THE THIRD MRS. MITCHELL, which combines the warm ambiance of a small town, the pain of a family in crisis, and unexpected second chances. Indeed, author Lynnette Kent creates a dazzling cast of characters readers and surprising depth of plot. Pete's devotion to troubled teens inspires Mary Rose to reexamine her own priorities. Pete and Mary Rose's shared history adds a touch of poignancy as they struggle with issues of the past and their irrepressible attraction to one another. Further, the teens become an intricate part of the plot as their rebellion at their stepmother and resentment toward their father motivates extreme behavior. Kelsey's attraction to an older boy from the wrong side of the tracks skillfully addresses the prejudices of small town living. Kent's willingness to tackle the difficult issues of modern reading, from divorce and remarriage to troubled teens lends THE THIRD MRS. MITCHELL both the resounding realism and the happily ever after ending readers demand. Consequently, THE THIRD MRS. MITCHELL comes very highly recommended.	2002-09-11
1412486:US	49693975	RW4A2D28RT3AP	0373710836	482448657	A Baby of Her Own (Dundee, Idaho)	Books	5	36	37	N	N	Small town charm and well intentioned interference	With the arrival of her thirtieth birthday and with her best friend's plans to move, Delaney Lawson longs to fill the empty places of her life and her heart with a child of her own. Acting completely out of character and swept away by her impetuous best friend's encouragement, Delaney and Rebecca drive to Boise to find a man. Never mind Delaney's virginity; one night of naughtiness will fill more important needs.<br />Connor Armstrong noticed the women the moment they entered the bar. The woman he comes to know as Delaney wears a sinful dress that completely contrasts her attitude. Connor has vowed to give up his dissolute life, but Delaney proves to be temptation he cannot refuse. Their night together is magic, but when Connor says that he wants to see her again Delaney escapes without leaving behind a trace of her identity.<br />Three weeks later, the test strip turns pink and reality sets in. Delaney's foolish plan was successful, but the consequences are much greater than she expected. Worse, Connor has moved to town to take over his grandfather's ranch. And when he tracks Delaney down and learns of the pregnancy, Connor makes it clear that he will not simply walk away. It seems impossible that Connor can overcomes his feelings of betrayal, or Delaney her feelings of guilt, especially as events spiral completely out of control for both of them.<br />Friendship, family, and offbeat personalities sparkle in A BABY OF HER OWN. Brenda Novak once again displays her dazzling gift for creating characters we believe in, who make us react whether it be with a laugh or a tear, resulting in both vivid drama and entrancing tenderness. On one hand, Delaney struggles with the tick of her biological clock, a desire to be loved, and her wish for a child. On the other hand, Conner's own need for family and an opportunity to prove himself compliments Delaney's personality perfectly, but the struggle to prove his sincerity to both her and his grandfather pushes him to the limit. In addition, Rebecca carves her own place in readers' hearts with her purple hair and brash attitude that conceals a heart of gold, causing readers to eagerly look forward to her tale next year. Delaney's loving but meddlesome family and small town likewise spring to live with a charm that all big city dweller occasionally long for. A BABY OF HER OWN comes very highly recommended.	2002-09-11
1412503:US	49693975	R1X0UR6W8QZPC2	0373710852	566538964	Montana Dreaming: Home on the Ranch (Harlequin Superromance No. 1085)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	The death of her father, his remaining medical expenses and low cattle prices lead to a heart rendering decision for Jessie Weaver. Despite her intense connection to the land of her forbearers, Jessie must sell out and move. Rather than accepting the easy millions offered by developers, however, Jessie sells to a wealthy man interested in conservation. He promises to realize her dream, however, if she will stay and manage the land. But Jessie cannot remain on land that is no longer her own.<br />When Guthrie learns of Jessie's plans, he leaves behind the mountains of Montana seeking answers and healing in Alaska. Alas, he might have left Jessie, but he cannot quit her, and after five months, he gives into the compulsion to return to Montana. He hopes things have changed between them, but the bitter anger and pain still simmers, blocking softer feelings. Indeed, the cataclysmic events of the past year have robbed Jessie of any vulnerability or gentle feeling, leaving behind a woman as strong and rugged as the Montana mountains. But Guthrie loves the mountains as he loves Jessie, and he is equally resilient.<br />Nadia Nichols' voice combines the beauty of a poet with the strength of a visionary to create a unique balance between the mundane and the surreal. Jessie Weaver is a difficult heroine to warm to with her prickly attitude and stalwart determination. But occasional shifting points of view reveal an extraordinary woman as others reveal her strength, her courage and her moral fortitude. Jessie believes in the Montana land she loves so dearly, sacrificing millions to preserve a dream of wide-open spaces. Contrasting Jessie's dreams, Guthrie is a realist, practical to the core and pained by their constant friction. A typical male who cannot express his true feelings, Guthrie tends to make messes of things rather than fixing them. Yet it takes the strength of such characters to inhabit Nichol's world of unforgiving natural and manmade danger. An extraordinary novelthat explores the most difficult of emotional landscapes and the most beautiful of natural spaces, MONTANA DREAMING earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-09-11
1412590:US	49693975	R3ENIE7GKQF3A3	0373259956	880419301	Lipstick On His Collar	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Delightful comedic feast! Very highly recommended	When the woman in the red dress burst through the door of the cop bar, Nick Ryder's heart stood still. Her sensuality and boldness attracted him, even as she determinedly downs too many drinks in hopes of forgetting the earlier part of the evening. On chemistry overload, Nick spends the night making love to Miranda Chase. She makes him promise to call afterward, but when he does, his calls are refused.<br />A year later synchronicity brings them together. A shooting has forced Rick to reevaluate his priorities, and he has accepted a medical discharge from the force. He temporarily plays doorman as a favor to a friend, much to the delight of the ladies of the building, including Miranda. Still, Nick and Miranda come from very different worlds with very different priorities and only a burglary promises to bring them together, however temporarily.<br />Once again author Dawn Atkins proves her deft ability for combining an amusing romantic romp with sensual interludes in LIPSTICK ON HIS COLLAR. These dynamic characterizations address the modern questions of priorities and social status with verve as Miranda and Nick match wits. She likes the finer things of life, reveling in the luxuries she can easily afford. He is an ex-cop with an ex-wife who proved detectives do not provide the lifestyle or profits necessary to support the designer lipstick crowd. With nothing in common, Miranda will have to leave a lot of lipstick marks to prove that love can overcome ambition. Outrageous antics, such as Miranda's tackling of a burglar and the over abundance of sprained ankles, make for a marvelous read, making LIPSTICK ON HIS COLLAR come very highly recommended.	2002-09-11
1412613:US	49693975	REHO1Q202G9EX	037376460X	134709889	The Secret Baby Bond  (Dynasties:  The Connellys) (Harlequin Desire)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Compelling -- Very highly recommended	A devastating train wreck killed all passengers, leaving the Connellys to believe that Michael was dead. No one knew that although he had book passage on the train, Michael lay severely injured elsewhere as the result of vicious mugging. For two years Michael had no memory of the life he left behind in America, and the woman who had asked him for a divorce. Then he saw the photograph of is wife engaged to another man and carrying his son. <br />With Michael's reported death, Tara Connelly Paige lost her spunk. Compliancy replaced zeal, surface calm replaced passion. Indeed, the only thing that still brings sparkle to her days is the son conceived on the eve of his father's departure. Then suddenly, Michael reappears, and Tara is terrified of allowing the tumultuous emotions of the past to sweep her away for fear of being destroyed...again.<br />THE SECRET BABY BOND, book nine of the continuity Dynasties: The Connellys. Author Cindy Gerard successfully pens a novel that functions as well as a standalone as it does within the scope of the series. Michael's disappearance and subsequent reappearance is both convincing and poignant. Tara's emotional shutdown seems equally appropriate in light of her feelings of guilt, love, and grief. Her fear of reawakening old passions threatens to paralyze her, forcing her to reject second chances despite her desires. Filled with rich emotional nuance, complicated family relationships, and complexities of the heart, THE SECRET BABY BOND comes very highly recommended.	2002-09-11
1412631:US	49693975	R13IIYY9JPCQD2	0373196121	721384367	Searching For Her Prince  (Crown And Glory) (Silhouette Romance)	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Enchanting tale -- Highly recommended	Twenty-three years ago, someone may have switched the royal heirs of Penwyck. Now Lady Amira Sierra Corbin tracks a possible heir of the throne to a multimillionaire in America. Marcus Cordello guards his identity and his personal life carefully, making it easy for an accidental encounter to lead to a false identity and the possibility of lost possibilities.<br />When the lovely woman in the restaurant faints, Marcus insists that she join him for dinner. Curious about her reasons for visiting the states, he introduces himself as Brent Carpenter. He neither wants to be a prince nor a royal heir, liking his life as it is. But he is entranced by the lovely Amira and would barter the truth for a few hours spent in her company. Too bad he underestimates the risks to his heart.<br />Author Karen Rose Smith has gift for story telling, complete with a fluid narrative voice that sweeps the reader away into an extraordinary world where dreams do come true. One of the greatest challenges facing an author in series romance is to create a story that picks up where another ends, and to conclude where another might begin. With this Crown and Glory installment, Smith faces this challenge masterfully, deftly weaving vital information of the continuity into the narrative, yet SEARCHING FOR HER PRINCE works equally well as a stand-alone. <br />Despite their status as companion to princesses or multimillionaire, Marcus and Amira prove that life on the other side of the fence might present dazzling rewards or be filled with fear, but the need for love still triumphs. While not all readers have the patience for a hero who purposefully conceals his identity, the way Marcus backs himself into the dilemma does provide a graceful excuse, and his desperate need to continue to conceal his identity just so he can have time with Amira has its own charming flair. A lovely and entertaining read, SEARCHING FOR HER PRINCE comes highly recommended.	2002-09-11
1412638:US	49693975	R1J8AXSHUFSR4G	0373790589	902995281	Wild And Willing	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Simmering energy, relentlessly daring	Mia Quentin will put herself in the path of the first pirate she spies. With a red hibiscus behind her ear, her skirt torn daringly high, and a red lace bikini beneath, Mia plans a hot afternoon in the arms of a stranger. With a bit of persistence, she puts herself in the arms of corporate shark Seth Chandler, pirate for a day, making it clear that she is wild and willing.<br />Seth does not think much of participating the publicity stunt. He intends to capture a grandmotherly type who would revel in the adventure and provide terrific p.r. for Chandler Enterprises. With an actor quitting at the last minute, however, Seth cannot afford for anything to go wrong, and becomes a sexy pirate complete with an eye patch and bare chest.<br />Mia got more than she bargained for with the pirate who refuses to take advantage of her offer of a brief fling. She must return to a life of overwhelming responsibility that leaves no time for romance. He must convince her otherwise. Indeed, it may take weeks of sensual promises and erotic possibilities to convince Mia of the value of commitment.<br />Author Joanne Rock has a gift for penning wickedly delicious romance with fabulously erotic escapades, which WILD AND WILLING delivers with flair! Mia's desire for a quick fling before she returns to responsibility will echo the fantasies of most readers, but Seth's attitudes are certainly unexpected. Of course, a guy who believes that commitment means living together still has a lot to learn. The subplot is equally delightful with Mia's unorthodox mother finding love as well. Further, quirky humor, including grandparents who really want to sell bad t-shirts and squeaky toys from their gift shop, will keep readers wildly entertained. WILD AND WILLING comes very highly recommended.	2002-09-11
1412685:US	49693975	RTXO02073HHWD	0312879091	884206306	Twilight	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	A serial killer known only as Narcissus faxes hate letters to Judge Simone Thompson and four well-known Hollywood names. Hopefully leaving the danger behind, Simone travels to Brazil for a friend's wedding. She intensely dislikes Brazil, associating it with childhood trauma. Indeed, Simone bears a number of childhood wounds, including not knowing the identity of her father, despite repeated demands to her mother. Simone finds healing now by extending aid to orphans; unfortunately, her compassion has made her the target of a serial killer.<br />Brazil also brings Simone together with another target, \\"Sweet Sonny\\" D. Anthony Whittaker who is there working on his new film. An instant attraction sizzles between them, but must not be acted upon when Simone realizes he will appear in her courtroom the following week. Simone will preside over a bitter divorce hearing in which Sonny seeks custody of his young twin daughters. Meanwhile, Narcissus lurks, carefully selecting Sonny's costar for the first victim. <br />TWILIGHT will satisfy fans of a number of sub-genres with its romantic elements, courtroom drama, and murder. TWILIGHT sweeps readers away, from an exotic paradise to the glitter of Hollywood. Lush eroticism heightens the contrast between the growing electric attraction shared by Simone and Sonny and the danger lurking nearby. Simone presents herself as a memorable heroine as she struggles to overcome childhood trauma and extend that healing to other young victims. Sonny's desperate need to overcome his old reputation and prove his sincerity becomes fresh and original in his genuine display of love for his children. Secondary plots abound, carefully woven and sharply realized. The overall effect is mesmerizing, like the magical moment of TWILIGHT when kaleidoscope colors blend to create a moment of exquisiteness that echoes the authors' dreams of a multicultural world. A fast paced, riveting read that is impossible to put down, TWILIGHT earns the WordWeaving Awardfor Excellence.	2002-09-11
1412717:US	49693975	RPI6FDF05DCH4	0373790600	169072720	Every Move You Make  (Trueblood Texas)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Sizzling! Highly recommended	Instant acceptance from newly discovered relatives in Trueblood, Texas surprises Zach Letterman. His new family connections lead to a radical career decision as Zach trades his business background for investigative work. Without a license, his first assignment consists of tracking down a wedding dress that has been languishing in lost baggage for the last week. Since the case had already been referred to another firm in Houston, Zach finds himself on the plane to meet Mariah Clayborn. <br />Her last three boyfriends became engaged to someone else within a week of their breakup, so Mariah believes its time to change her image. In return for teaching Zach the ropes of the PI business, she wants him to teach her how to be a seductive, sexy woman. While chasing baggage thieves and hidden treasure, she intends to uncover her own sensuality. With such an outrageous agreement, they both get more than they bargained for.<br />Author Tori Carrington pens a sizzling new romance in EVERY MOVE YOU MAKE. Fans will appreciate Tori Carrington's flair for creating sizzling characterizations. Mariah's resourceful strengths and independence provides fabulous comic relief with her determined captures of the town's thief/horse wrestler. Add Zach's quick-witted ingenuity, and the result is a dynamic, sexy tale certain to satisfy. Surprisingly, it is Mariah's lack of changes but radical self discovery, under Zach's tutelage, that makes EVERY MOVE YOU MAKE a scintillating pleasure. Highly recommended.	2002-09-11
1412776:US	49693975	R14XE3HK670W5T	0312879091	884206306	Twilight	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	A serial killer known only as Narcissus faxes hate letters to Judge Simone Thompson and four well-known Hollywood names. Hopefully leaving the danger behind, Simone travels to Brazil for a friend's wedding. She intensely dislikes Brazil, associating it with childhood trauma. Indeed, Simone bears a number of childhood wounds, including not knowing the identity of her father, despite repeated demands to her mother. Simone finds healing now by extending aid to orphans; unfortunately, her compassion has made her the target of a serial killer.<br />Brazil also brings Simone together with another target, \\"Sweet Sonny\\" D. Anthony Whittaker who is there working on his new film. An instant attraction sizzles between them, but must not be acted upon when Simone realizes he will appear in her courtroom the following week. Simone will preside over a bitter divorce hearing in which Sonny seeks custody of his young twin daughters. Meanwhile, Narcissus lurks, carefully selecting Sonny's costar for the first victim. <br />TWILIGHT will satisfy fans of a number of sub-genres with its romantic elements, courtroom drama, and murder. TWILIGHT sweeps readers away, from an exotic paradise to the glitter of Hollywood. Lush eroticism heightens the contrast between the growing electric attraction shared by Simone and Sonny and the danger lurking nearby. Simone presents herself as a memorable heroine as she struggles to overcome childhood trauma and extend that healing to other young victims. Sonny's desperate need to overcome his old reputation and prove his sincerity becomes fresh and original in his genuine display of love for his children. Secondary plots abound, carefully woven and sharply realized. The overall effect is mesmerizing, like the magical moment of TWILIGHT when kaleidoscope colors blend to create a moment of exquisiteness that echoes the authors' dreams of a multicultural world. A fast paced, riveting read that is impossible to put down, TWILIGHT earns the WordWeaving Awardfor Excellence.	2002-09-11
1416077:US	49693975	R2MOU110DHXVBF	0758203187	112368527	Behind Closed Doors (The McCloud Brothers, Book 1)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Since his younger brother's Jesse's death in an FBI job gone wrong, Seth Mackey has reinvented himself. He maintains the careful control of a cyborg until his surveillance cameras expose Raine. She moved into Victor Lazar's opulent house after his last mistress moves out. Seth has no objective reason for maintaining the surveillance since Lazar has never come to see Raine, but he has become addicted to this sensual delight whose social life seems as limited as his own.<br />Raine does not suspect that someone watches. She applied for a job with Lazar's company in a desperate effort to seek answers to the past. She believes that Lazar killed her father when she was eleven, sending her mother and herself into hiding. Different cities and different names, a lifetime of disappearing, left her with haunting nightmares that will only stop when she finds answers.<br />Night after night Seth watches, recognizing the sleazy aspect of his voyeurism but helpless against the passion Raine arouses. He had plotted his lawless retribution against Lazar for his brother's death, and does not need the distraction of this woman of steel and twisting fire. Nevertheless, they soon come together in stunning, breath taking passion, even as they each conceal hidden motivation and desperate need. <br />Shannon McKenna pens a dangerously erotic tale with her first Kensington Brava, BEHIND CLOSED DOORS. Replete with daring sensuality and tension filled danger, BEHIND CLOSED DOORS sizzles. McKenna does not quibble regarding these characters needs, desires and feelings, relying on a heart stopping, complex plot to maintain a fierce pace. Raine moves from clumsy naiveté to revealing a woman both strong and vibrant. Seth transforms from a man blunted to emotion to man driven to know this dynamic woman. They both keep secrets and hidden pain that threaten to rupture their newfound feelings. A mesmerizing read and impossible to put down until the last searing page, BEHIND CLOSED DOORS earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-09-08
1417163:US	49693975	R1JX6492TM7V73	0595199429	152469180	In His Corner: Will the Real Billy Joe Please Stand	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Poignant southern fiction -- Very highly recommended	The sleepy southern town of Overton did not forget or forgive young Billy Joe Bilingsley's transgression. Prosecuted as an adult, Billy Joe served time in prison for a simple, youthful mistake. He was branded a juvenile delinquent, and after serving his time returned to Overton only to realize he would never again fit in. Several years younger, Jane Moss never forgot the troubled young man. <br />Eleven years later Jane meets up with Billy Joe in Atlanta, knowing at once that they are soul mates. Despite the rumors of his criminal activity and attachment to the Dixie Mafia, Jane believes in Billy Joe's essential good. For a year he tries to protect her from the realities of his illicit activities. She determinedly denies the rumors, enjoying their time together shopping in exclusive stores, traveling to others states, or savoring fancy restaurants. <br />Lovers of southern literature will savor IN HIS CORNER. Author Joan Moore Lewis' mesmerizing voice captures the flavor of the sixties with a rich realism as she brings Atlanta in the sixties vividly to life. Moreover, she grapples with maintaining the belief in one's essential goodness no matter what. Jane purposefully blinds herself to Billy Joe's criminal behavior, yet her innocent faith in Billy Joe strikes the reader as believable as she determinedly reveals the truth of the Southern gentleman she loves. Billy Joe captures the reader's heart, proving that one wrong turn can forever determine one's life course, no matter the truth of one's character. IN HIS CORNER beautifully reflects the poignancy of the sixties song Ode to Billie Joe and the parallel, inevitable path of destruction. This entrancing novel of the south and soul mates comes very highly recommended.	2002-09-06
1419748:US	49693975	R31S1498LGLK71	0743300645	125899066	Light Plays: Book Two of the Light Play Trilogy	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A powerful reading experience -- Very highly recommended	... <br />Author ND Hansen-Hill completes the Light Plays trilogy with LIGHTNING PLAYS. A captivating, eerie, and addictive series, Light Plays grows stronger with each book, with LIGHTNING PLAYS providing a blockbuster finale. Readers will find it impossible to put down this sophisticated blend of science fiction, suspense and horror. With Hansen-Hill's typical cast of memorable and eccentric characters, the author spins a tale of horror and mystery that will delight both fans and initiates alike. Rick especially challenges any preconceptions of what it takes to be \\"human\\", proving his mutant blend might actually be the most humane of all. Fans will immediately recognize Hansen-Hill's brand of humor and satire, which nicely counterbalance the darker motifs which are also a signature of the author's work. Replete with various subplots and secondary characters, LIGHTNING PLAYS provides a powerful reading experience. Very highly recommended.	2002-09-04
1419752:US	49693975	R1P5G7UJZC2AH6	1553690095	335457899	Pebbles in a Pond	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A tale of haunting beauty -- Highly recommended	Recurrent dreams trouble Emma's sleep. A haunting familiarity draws her into a romance with Steve, resulting in their marriage. They relish their time spent together in Alaska, until their mentor dies, beginning a series of changes with devastating consequences. First their best friends move from Alaska to California and Steve is transferred to Vermont. Then tragic events erode trust and soon Emma finds herself choosing between either repeating the mistakes of the distant past or boldly forging a new path. <br />Meanwhile, Emily of Victorian New York offers glimpses of her life in Emma's dreams. An independent businesswoman, Emily lives quietly until a new customer and her husband James enter her shop. A startling electrical connection between proves irresistible, but leads to tragedy when Emma discovers her pregnancy. Her story foretells the challenges her modern counterpart will face as their stories interweave. <br />Authors Donna Vail Jones and Randy Jones combine their poetic voices in PEBBLES IN A POND. More than a romance, PEBBLES IN A POND examines the intricacy of relationships when viewed over more than one lifetime. Reincarnation allows two stories to overlap in a tale of haunting beauty. While the tale is occasionally bogged down with an overabundance of exposition, the overall effect is at once mesmerizing and entrancing. Further, the authors' combined background in psychology and environmental studies deepens the reading experience with a sophisticated and knowledgeable undertone, even as their extensive travels and dream experience likewise combine in a fascinating background that lends the novel a touch of reality touched by the supernatural. Highly recommended.	2002-09-04
1419915:US	49693975	R1EZRKUSYBLWIU	0821774131	413163139	The Wedding Duel (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Clashing issues of truth and loyalty - Highly recommended	Keene Davies challenges his best friend to a duel when Victor's behavior nearly destroys the lives of others. As a consequence, his father calls him in two weeks later, demanding that Keene marry. Before his brother's death, Keene had decided that he would never marry, thereby allowing his younger brother to be his heir. With Richard gone, his father demands his marriage to his distant cousin Sophie Farthing or he will have Keene charged with attempted murder. Indeed, except for a small partial protected by entail, Sophie will inherit his father's property and wealth. Not that it matters, as Keene has never cared to spend his father's money, preferring to support himself from profits earned at gambling tables. <br />Keene first unorthodox glimpse of his cousin, after many years absence, is of her drawers as she attempts to crawl out a window to escape yet another match making ploy. Such exploits seem to characterize her high spirits. Not that Sophie has anything against marriage; certainly any escape from her very restrictive parental home would be preferable to her staid country existence. She longs to travel to London and dance, attend the opera, and live the life she was born to. Accepting Keene's proposal comes easily; establishing a happy marriage amidst well meaning machinations and misunderstandings proves to be an extraordinary challenge.<br />A playful romp with potentially emotionally devastating undertones, THE WEDDING DUEL by Karen L. King is a must read for regency romance fans. Sophie's high spirits and innocence result in a fresh, charming heroine. Her lack of knowledge of city manners provides in a number of fun escapades that fly in the face of convention. Her character strengths also prove to be her weaknesses when she does not understand how her own words, not to mention her well-meaning parents, lay a trap that she neither suspects or understands. Keene's concern with issues of loyalty and fidelity likewise become his greatest strengths as well as his greatest weaknesses. While their misunderstandings become somewhat protracted, wonderful secondary characters keep the pace moving along nicely, resulting in a highly entertaining read.	2002-09-04
1421188:US	49693975	R2FE4ANRFMWKNI	0595195903	549531425	Allegro's Secret	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Powerful -- Very highly recommended	...<br />Author Ramon Harris pens a gripping tale in ALLEGRO'S SECRET. As the idealism of youth gives way to disillusionment and grief, Al grows from innocence to bitterness, yet even his traitorous acts never place his team in danger. The radical personality changes that accompany his horrible accident provide a poignant, sympathetic note to the novel as well. In addition, his ambitious girl friend and later wife Mandy creates a powerful presence in the novel. Secondary characters likewise will capture the reader's attention, including those with whom he served and those who led them. A carefully crafted, powerfully rendered, tension filled read that's impossible to put down, ALLEGRO'S SECRET comes very highly recommended.	2002-09-03
1421388:US	49693975	R3OMP9210T534B	1588514145	943779266	Primal Justice	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Police officer Jon Stofferson has lost his zest. He no longer has energy for his ordinary routine, and his belief in his abilities has eroded. Jon once never hesitated to dole out his own sense of justice on the streets, in reasonable measures and appropriate circumstances. Now he has abandoned his former attitudes, proclaiming the right of all to their day in court. His partner has grown disgusted with his inexplicable changes. Others are beginning to notice his alarming changes as well.<br />Jon does not know the cause of his exhaustion or understand the battle going on his head. Many years ago, he turned his back on the concept of becoming a lawyer and seeking justice in the courts, despite his father and stepfather's encouragement. His solution was to become a police officer instead, leaving justice to those in charge of the courts. But now as he sleeps a symbiotic being, a vicious predator, arises to seek retribution in place of a system gone wrong. And Jon is in danger of loosing himself to its ultimate, primal justice. <br />Author Richard E. Gill pens a riveting novel in PRIMAL JUSTICE. The author's style boarders on experimental as the pace and tone shift to reflect the action of the moment. In addition, the gripping horror of one's man's descent into madness, or worse, serves as a fascinating counterpoint to a struggle to define appropriate justice. While incredibly violent and at times graphic, Gill mirrors the great masters of horror by allowing the reader's imagination to add the indelible details beyond the necessary, lending his novel a profound depth and fascination. At times crude and other times lyrical, the author's marvelous use of tone and flow will provide readers with a text impossible to put down. Add this one to your keeper shelf as PRIMAL JUSTICE earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-09-03
1421489:US	49693975	R1SBI5JB01BK04	1553690095	335457899	Pebbles in a Pond	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A tale of haunting beauty -- Highly recommended	Recurrent dreams trouble Emma's sleep. A haunting familiarity draws her into a romance with Steve, resulting in their marriage. They relish their time spent together in Alaska, until their mentor dies, beginning a series of changes with devastating consequences. First their best friends move from Alaska to California and Steve is transferred to Vermont. Then tragic events erode trust and soon Emma finds herself choosing between either repeating the mistakes of the distant past or boldly forging a new path. <br />Meanwhile, Emily of Victorian New York offers glimpses of her life in Emma's dreams. An independent businesswoman, Emily lives quietly until a new customer and her husband James enter her shop. A startling electrical connection between proves irresistible, but leads to tragedy when Emma discovers her pregnancy. Her story foretells the challenges her modern counterpart will face as their stories interweave. <br />Authors Donna Vail Jones and Randy Jones combine their poetic voices in PEBBLES IN A POND. More than a romance, PEBBLES IN A POND examines the intricacy of relationships when viewed over more than one lifetime. Reincarnation allows two stories to overlap in a tale of haunting beauty. While the tale is occasionally bogged down with an overabundance of exposition, the overall effect is at once mesmerizing and entrancing. Further, the authors' combined background in psychology and environmental studies deepens the reading experience with a sophisticated and knowledgeable undertone, even as their extensive travels and dream experience likewise combine in a fascinating background that lends the novel a touch of reality touched by the supernatural. Highly recommended.	2002-09-02
1422602:US	49693975	R2I8RLWCMF2W0G	1551669412	984847551	Hot Shot (STP - Mira)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Winner of WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Tough talking, chain smoking Atlanta detective Frankie Daniels falls from grace when her affair with the police commissioner's son-in-law, a married man with three children, becomes public knowledge. A tape of their sexual exploits ends her time on the Atlanta force, but the Captain pulls some strings and secures a new job opportunity for her in Purdyville, North Carolina. Unfortunately, she arrives to find the smoldering remains of her rent house, a mud bath, and a bristly encounter with her new boss.<br />The vulnerabilities created by witnessing the worse of mankind's depravity on Atlanta's streets combines with the lies her former lover told, leave Frankie rather hard edged-except when she yields to her emotions by crying in the shower. She has stopped seeing the people involved by crimes, thinking in terms of case numbers instead. She even wonders if she has lost her femininity. Meeting Police Chief Matt Weber forces her to reevaluate herself, her past and her future.<br />Having already dealt with the results of \\"fraternization\\", Frankie fights her attraction to the sinfully sensual chief. But as small town crime increases, Frankie finds it increasingly difficult to maintain her distance. Matt's clear regarding his feelings, but Frankie backs off when she becomes the object of small town gossip. But taking down the town bully and finds her hotel room vandalized demonstrates that Frankie has thrust herself in the middle of small town drama and the ... danger it can present.<br />Irreverently humorous moments lend a marvelous touch of levity to the wonderful romantic suspense HOT SHOT. Frankie thinks she is a hot shot when she arrives in Purdyville with ten years of street smarts. As she finds out how out of touch she is with humanity, however, she learns to balance street smarts with genuine concern. Yet author charlotte Hughes respects the strength that allows a detective to walk the Atlanta streets for ten years by not compromising the qualities that make Frankie unique - from her chain smoking to her ability to floor an unruly man twice her size in a parking lot. In addition, Matt's steadfast determination to win her heart, defend her reputation, and still respect Frankie as a person likewise will win reader's hearts. Further, Hughs masterfully captures the flavor of small town living that makes it unique, especially illustrated when Frankie brings a store-bought cake in a plastic container to a potluck. A tale of redemption, love and healing, HOT SHOT comes very highly recommended.	2002-09-01
1422748:US	49693975	R2S60R2EU5H0W5	0373272456	448616405	Grayson's Surrender  (Wingman Warriors) (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Evocative, powerful, and memorable -- Very highly recommende	The military is Major Grayson Clark's life. His father had served in Viet Nam as his mother struggled with the challenges as the wife of career officer. Those experiences left an indelible mark on Gray, defining his goals, his fears and his needs. Consequently, Gray vows that he will never marry or have children. Even when he fell in love with Lori Rutledge, he let her walk away rather than risk the pain his family had known. A year later they are thrown together in a mission to rescue orphans from a war torn country, risking life and limb to save seventy children.<br />The moment Lori scoops little Magda into her arms, her heart goes out to the child. Later, when Magda's adoptive parents withdraw their petition, Lori opts to adopt the child herself. That decision sweeps Gray back into her life as well, as they oscillate between the pain of the past and the demands of the present. The daughter of gypsy parents, Lori craves the stability and security of home and family, things Gray refuses to provide. Despite impossibly conflicting goals and values, however, neither Gray nor Lori seem to be able to simply walk away and stay away.<br />Author Catherine Mann brings the reality of her own experiences as a military wife to GRAYSON'S SURRENDER. Lori's struggle with her fear for Gray's safety, her need for stability, and her longing for family encapsulate the very essence of the challenges faced by military wives. Her determination to adopt Magda cannot help but touch reader's hearts. Gray's determination to remain aloof from his emotions even as he struggles with his desire for Lori and his growing concern for Magda culminate in a poignant scene when this huge service man plays Barbie dolls with this tiny, vulnerable child. Such profound moments lend GRAYSON'S SURRENDER an endearing, evocative undertone even as Lori and Gray's wills seem to violently clash. A powerfully told tale that all readers will treasure, GRAYSON'S SURRENDER comes very highly recommended. Readers will look forward to the second Wingmen Warriors novel, TAKING COVER, to be released in November.	2002-09-01
1423285:US	49693975	R9776LTNG879K	037325993X	308049102	Undercover Lovers  (Heat)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Sizzling competition! Highly recommended	Three years ago Tori Lowell and Carter Sinclair fiercely competed for top marks at the FBI academy. Their simmer sexual tension heightened the competition, culminating in a date a week before graduation. The disastrous ending left Tori convinced that Carter had used their date to throw her off track, and their clandestine activities had left her with a permanent black mark. Further, Tori blames her subsequent desk jockey position on that night, despite her flair for analysis, when she really wants to be in the field undercover. Now at last her desk job finally leads to her first opportunity for an undercover assignment. Unfortunately, the team lead is her old nemesis. <br />Three years among the dregs of society leaves Carter longing for a permanent assignment to a field office. He dreams of marriage and of family. The director promises his choice of assignments, but only if goes undercover one more time. He must lead an investigation regarding blackmailing guests of a resort for couples. His cover includes the pretense of marriage with Tori. While their sizzling sexual energy could lead to fascinating undercover work, she is certainly not the kind of woman he could one day marry. But the harder Tori fights their attraction, the more determined Carter becomes to prove they have chemistry above the covers as well as under.<br />Author Julie Kenner pens a funny, sexy, passionate read in UNDERCOVER LOVERS. In UNDERCOVER LOVERS, the extreme competitive edge displayed between Tori and Carter gives the novel marvelous tension, but some readers may feel it is a bit over the top. Nonetheless, Tori and Carter present an intriguing tale with strong willed characters and a sizzling plot. On one hand, Carter has grown beyond the need to be superagent, having already proved himself with undercover work. On the other hand, Tori needs to prove herself in the field, and to live up to her father's legend. Further, Kenner's characteristic flair for creating scorching love scenes anderotic drive make her one of the most memorable authors in the genre. With sizzling sensual tension and a fun plot, UNDERCOVER LOVERS comes highly recommended.	2002-09-01
1430820:US	49693975	R1PFKHCBTVJ6NY	0373710798	925554490	The Real Allie Newman (Harlequin Superromance No. 1079)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Troubling family relationships -- Recommended	When her picture appears in a national magazine for an act of heroism, Allie Newman receives an unexpected visit from a private investigator. Her wealthy grandfather recognized the remarkable similarity of appearance of her photo to her mother, and sends Joel Kennedy to discover the truth. Allie believes that her mother ran away with another man when she was three. But Joel brings proof that it was not her mother ran away, but her father, taking her with him. Allie is not the first woman whose dreams he had shattered, or whose life he would change forever. <br />Allie's grandfather has been diagnosed leukemia, and hopes that Allie can provide bone marrow for a transplant. A woman who comes to rescue of those in need, Allie does not hesitate to offer blood for testing of compatibility. But her trusting nature also lands her in the lap of a family with their own agenda. Her cousins view with her suspicion, concerned that their grandfather might change the will in her favor. Others in the household drop innuendo and suspicion in her lap, forcing Allie to learn the truth regarding her mother. Even Joel seems to have his own agenda, one he does not openly reveal to Molly.<br />Issues of self-identity become a powerful theme in Janice Carter's THE REAL ALLIE NEWMAN. While other authors have addressed this theme, Carter maintains an unusually even hand, never allowing her mature heroine to sink into the self-pitying quagmire that many heroines experience when discovering that the story of parentage had been concealed. The book occurs during the course of a single week: a short period of time for such profound revelations. Nevertheless, Allie approaches the revelations regarding her father and mother with grace. She demonstrates profound maturity and remarkable self-assurance as she examines the ramifications of the discovery that her father has a past and she has a family of which she had no previous knowledge. Rather than being angry regarding the secrets of the past, Allie accepts the opportunity to meet her extended family and to learn about her mother, even if it is a rather unsavory view. Hero Joel is a bit tougher to grow close to, concealing his identity and struggling to maintain distance from Allie because of a conflict of interests. Nevertheless, he does provide an anchor when Allie feels cast adrift, and his role adds a dimension of intrigue that keeps the plot moving nicely along. An interesting afternoon's read, THE REAL ALLIE NEWMAN comes recommended.	2002-08-24
1431393:US	49693975	R36SVL9ZWMFMIR	1892343258	380374095	Number, Please (Telephone Company Mystery)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Ma Bell's undercover operators - Very highly recommended	In 1963, a storm forces Trish Malcolm to fill in on the switchboard at Bell Telephone Company. A manager, Trish borrows an operator's number for her tickets, meaning Emma Bailey will get credit for her calls. The frantic pace of the night and her inexperience lead to a mistake. <br />Trish overhears part of a call to Hawaii, and the man placing the call believes that she has heard too much. The following day an orchid arrives with a commendation for the operator handling the Hawaii call. When her shift ends, a car runs down Emma, killing her. Police believe it was kids joyriding. Trish suspects murder.<br />No one believes Trish's story regarding the Hawaii call and its link to Emma's death. Driven by guilt, Trish begins her own investigation. Research links the call to a phone booth near an old mansion that has been subdivided into apartments. A convenient vacancy allows Trish to move in so she can watch the tenants and track a killer. Events soon escalate, however, leaving Trish isolated and unable to trust anyone.<br />Readers who remember the movie Sorry, Wrong Number will recognize a chillingly similar theme in NUMBER, PLEASE, by Sheree Petree. When no one takes her suspicions seriously but the killer, Trish struggles with whom she can trust. As danger closes in, tension runs high. Only when she enlists the help of others will she be able to solve the crime. Petree writes in a compelling style, making NUMBER, PLEASE impossible to put down. A richly developed mystery, NUMBER, PLEASE comes very highly recommended.	2002-08-23
1431726:US	49693975	R1XJ4I7FON71ZR	0967792991	738847049	The Hunter and the Ebony Tree	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wonderfully entertaining! Very highly recommended	A huge ebony tree stands in the center of the village of Tombakonda. Its hard trunk seems impenetrable. A beautiful young girl lives in the village and many men come to ask her father for her hand in marriage. Her father wishes his daughter to marry a man of strength. The girl wishes for a man with more gifts than just strength. With her father's permission, she sets a challenge. She will marry the man whose arrow penetrates the ebony tree. Many men try, but none succeed until one day a young hunter comes to the village who enlists the helps of friends to win his heart's desire.<br />Author/illustrator Nelda LaTeef uniquely captures the essence of an African folk tale, bringing it vividly to life for children of all audiences. The classic tale of wisdom and cunning to achieve one's goal serves a delightful lesson of encouragement to young readers. The combination of acrylic and collage for the illustrations lends the page a marvelous texture and depth. My young American audience, ages five and eight, found this to be a wonderfully entertaining tale that they ask for again and again. THE HUNTER AND THE EBONY TREE comes very highly recommended.	2002-08-23
1432133:US	49693975	R13T47WG8Q19SS	080349548X	173833048	For the Last Time	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very highly recommended	Deep in the woods, Old Bell's Creek campground, nicknamed Devil's Campground, undergoes renovation to prepare for reopening. The campground shut down twenty-five years ago following the stabbing a young girl in her bunk. No one saw the perpetrator, and when the victim's cabin mates found her body, pandemonium resulted. <br />Whispers of the devil's work closed the camp under the orders of Sheriff Howard. Now his daughter Sharyn holds the Sheriff's badge. When a reporter stumbles over an old suitcase, the murders of the past suddenly become dangerously relevant. <br />Inside the small suitcase are a bloodstained dress, a ring, and a locket. The dress is too small to have belonged to the girl murdered in the cabin. Consequently, Sharyn knows that not one, but two murders occurred twenty-five years ago. And somewhere close lurks the perpetrator who seems willing to protect himself even he must kill again.<br />Authors Jim and Joyce Lavene create a marvelously multi-layered plot certain to satisfy mystery lovers in FOR THE LAST TIME. Sharyn struggles with the decision to run for reelection or to take the bar and practice as a lawyer. Her personal life adds delicious complications with the addition of the growing attraction to Nick Thomopolis, the medical examiner. Further, she refuses to yield to the politics wielded by her mother's fiancé, state senator Caison Talbot and his cronies. The result is a woman whose characters grows and strengthens with each addition to this popular mystery series. The strength of this talented writing duo, combined with a fascinating plot replete with twists and a rich understanding of human nature round out this terrific novel, making it come very highly recommended.	2002-08-23
1432221:US	49693975	RIKM2THB2RV8U	0803494688	444010267	The Last To Remember - An Avalon Mystery	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Highly recommended	Forty years ago the Jefferson Training School housed boys who went astray in an attempt at rehabilitating them and preventing them from receiving a jail sentence. The boys became rough, and came out of the school even tougher and meaner than when they arrived. The bigger kids picked on the smaller kids. One night two boys got carried away and hit Michael Smith in the back of the head and rolling him in a ditch. When they thought he was dead, they buried him. Years later, a boy's skeleton has been hung from the rugged wooden cross in front the old church at the training school.<br />When an unexpected blizzard turns North Carolina hazardous, cutting off power and transportation Sheriff Sharyn Howard doesn't expect Beau Richmond to burst into the door of the sheriff's office screaming his guilt. Beau is one of Diamond Spring's leading citizens. His charitable awards and good deeds are legendary. Despite his confused and distraught demeanor, Beau declares his guilt regarding the death of Michael Smith forty years ago. An hour later, deputies find Beau hanging from a corner beam, a chair knocked out from under his feet. Further examination proves Beau suffocated after he hung himself, and his neck wasn't broken. Chances are that someone murdered him right there in the conference room of the sheriff's office.<br />Sharyn knows first hand how quickly an investigation can go astray and charge the wrong man with a crime. Before her officers come under further scrutiny, she must discover the truth of a small boy's death forty years ago, and how it leads not only to Beau Richmond. Further, Sharyn finds herself embroiled in the political shenanigans of DA's office while trying to protect her own office staff.<br />THE LAST TO REMEMBER by the writing team of Joyce and Jim Lavene create a twisting plot of deception and murder that will keep the page turnings. The characters present themselves realistically; they are normal people with extraordinary secrets. Further, the character development regarding Sheriff Sharyn Howard continues to evolve, promising interesting revelations in sequels. Highly recommended.	2002-08-23
1433437:US	49693975	R18MCEDVRSG45Q	037376457X	60741456	Cowboy Boss (Harlequin Desire)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Terrific character driven romance -- Very highly recommended	A bit of matchmaking leaves Faith Broderick stranded with Cooper Adams on a dilapidated ranch without electricity, phone service or transportation. While there might not be anything for her at the Triple Bar Ranch, there certainly is nothing to return to in Illinois. Faith may have arrived to accept a position as housekeeper, but she soon wants to stay when she finds love amid the cobwebs, mice, and a bucket fed calf.<br />Cooper finds the magnetism between them irresistible. But it will be years before the Triple Bar Ranch becomes profitable, and right now he cannot even offer running water. Too bad he underestimates the power of old-fashioned bathtubs and candlelight - on both himself and Faith. But a man wants more to offer the woman he loves than falling plaster and leaking roofs. <br />Author Kathie DeNosky's pens a sparking romance in COWBOY BOSS. Faith's queasiness regarding creeping critters lends just the light note of levity to keep COWBOY BOSS a lively read. Faith's disillusion with marriage and her challenge to overcome the scars from the past neatly match Cooper's challenges. Once again DeNosky demonstrates a dazzling gift for creating a character driven tale with emotional depth balanced by the heart. Very highly recommended.	2002-08-22
1439449:US	49693975	RFUYDTVH1N78D	0373790562	55194542	Truly, Madly, Deeply  (Trueblood Texas)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Scorching sensuality -- Very highly recommended	Dustin Ramsey has never forgotten that night, ten years ago, in the back of his Mustang one warm April. Embarrassed by his abysmal performance, Dustin had slunk away and not called again. Now he has hired a private investigator to find Erica Mann, the girl he could not forget. She now publishes a highly successful newsletter that provides an opportunity for them to meet again. But what he really wants, more than her writing skills, is an opportunity to make up for a teen's impatient backseat mistakes.<br />Erica still remembers that night in high school when she had been virginal and fumbling. With a bit more knowledge, she might have turned quick on the trigger into a treasured memory. So when Dustin calls with a business proposition, Erica is floored. She had started Dateline: Dallas on a dare and only intended to publish until her dream job as an investigative reporter appears. But Dustin's reappear in her life threatens her priorities, her desires, and her heart. <br />The first of the Truelood, Texas continuity, TRULY, MADLY, DEEPLY sizzles with sexual tension and erotic love scenes that truly satisfy. Erica and Dustin struggle to reconcile the memories of the past with their desires of the present. Their evocative struggles demonstrate the author's understanding of powerful motivation and fear of vulnerability. With TRULY, MADLY, DEEPLY, Vicki Lewis Thompson once again demonstrates her dazzling gift for creating sensual romance and extraordinary passion that readers have come to expect from this talented author. Very highly recommended.	2002-08-16
1440011:US	49693975	R2WXYISDCMJNJ7	0373790538	300781611	Double The Pleasure: Twins	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Simmering sensual adventure - Very highly recommended	Julie Elizabeth Leto and Susan Kearney combine their talents in simultaneous releases this month guaranteed to heat the libido. Each cover reveals half of their identical twin's face and, when placed side by side, form a whole. This innovative marketing tactic will solve the issue of readers who wait until the entire series becomes available before beginning their reading. I do hope Harlequin deems this experiment a success and repeats such simultaneous releases.<br />Identical twin brothers Grey and Zane Masterson swap lives. Zane accepts the challenges that have driven Grey to seek refuge, while Grey frees himself to enjoy Zane's hedonistic lifestyle, with the provision that he will step up to Zane's responsibility to friend Reina Price. <br />Jewelry designer Reina rents her business and home space from Zane, and a recent rash of burglaries threatens her livelihood. An opportunity arises to recreate a stunningly sensual jewelry collection that will compliment her evocative style. When her pal Zane arrives and insists on handling security measures, Reina accepts his aid. But suddenly her old friend becomes the greatest danger of all. <br />Author Julie Elizabeth Leto weaves an enticing web of subterfuge and sensuality in DOUBLE THE PLEASURE. Leto's gift for erotic story telling makes her one of the boldest and most erotic authors writing series romance. In DOUBLE THE PLEASURE, Leto handles the switched identity gracefully, not allowing the deception to spin out of control, yet uses its consequences to great effect. Further, Reina is a stunningly atypical heroine, fiercely independent, sexually adventurous and surprisingly experienced. Her sexuality becomes a weapon that intimidates and control, yet Grey sees the vulnerability lurking beneath her strong façade. Indeed, it is refreshingly realistic to read of a woman who lost her virginity young, revels in her sexual exploits, and does not shy from exploration. Such rich characterization and intriguing plotting makes DOUBLE THE PLEASURE a delightful read. Very highly recommended.	2002-08-15
1444051:US	49693975	R2FRKRVANGRZGF	0595149944	171063832	Hiding Tree	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Materful story telling -- Very highly recommended	...<br />Ramon Harris' HIDING TREE presents a fast paced mystery readers will find impossible to put down. This techno-thriller spans three centuries and turns into a deadly treasure hunt. Laura is a fascinating heroine as she struggles to reconcile professional demands with personal needs, gaining a unique opportunity to redefine her life, at great risk, on her own terms. With a rich cast of characters and a fast paced plot, Harris's masterful storytelling gift will hold readers riveted. HIDING TREE comes very highly recommended.	2002-08-12
1444528:US	49693975	R20ZY34SA7KCB3	1929613962	652387795	A Whisper of Rosemary	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Captures the very essence of medieval life	At the king's command, Allegra must marry Merele Lareaux although she carries another man's child. On her wedding day, Allegra believes Michael could not bear to see her marry another when she receives word of his departure. Nevertheless, she will never forget the man who fathers her child and still lies hidden within her heart of hearts. She vows that her daughter will never have to face such a loveless marriage.<br />Eighteen years later, men lie murdered, carefully arranged in a death drama by a madman. The youngest son of victim Harold Derkland vows revenge. On a mission for the king and seeking answers regarding his father's murder, Dirick becomes an undercover guest to Merele Lareaux. He finds himself immediately drawn to his host's only child, Maris. But an intenerate knight without land or wealth cannot hope to marry such a woman. Indeed, Maris has no wish to marry, but must acquiesce to her father's desire for her to marry Victor D'Arcy. Unfortunately, his controlling ways and harsh expectations clash with this spitfire of a woman. Meanwhile, the ruthless Bon de Savrille plots to take Maris for himself. <br />Author Colleen Gleason creates a complex weave of duplicity, intrigue and love in A WHISPER OF ROSEMARY. Her characters spring to life as she captures the very essence of medieval life. As two generations of women struggle with the challenges and dangers of love, the reader will be swept away with the enthralling adventure. Dark overtones and rabid intentions keep the pace moving rapidly right to the last shocking, yet satisfying moment. A WHISPER OF ROSEMARY comes very highly recommended.	2002-08-12
1445558:US	49693975	R3LNYZW5PHDP3A	037371078X	880125410	Her Baby's Father: 9 Months Later (Harlequin Superromance No. 1078)	Books	3	0	3	N	N	Stunning ethical dilemmas -- Recommended	...P>Anne Haven's HER BABY'S FATHER examines the boundaries of ethical behavior and the definitions of fatherhood. The plot may seem a bit overburdened with the number of stunning twists, from infertility to brothers having been married to the same woman at different times, but the strengths of characterization and gentle handling of extremely delicate family matters reveals a deft authorial touch. Haven's smooth writing style, multidimensional characters and strong emotional conflicts make for a evocative read. Recommended.	2002-08-10
1445604:US	49693975	R1J72WQ8Y3WTLQ	0373710771	717388861	The Man on the Cliff (Harlequin Superromance No. 1077)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Perfect for gothic lovers -- Highly recommended	...<br />Author Janice Macdonald beautifully blends the mystery of Ireland with an entrancing romance in THE MAN ON THE CLIFF. An otherworldly quality pervades the novel, influencing characters to act on their impulses and believe in the magic of destiny. The clash of differences between Californian Kate and Irishman Niall highlights far more than a simple geographical distance. As Ireland works its magic, however, Kate and Niall find commonalities and attraction that threaten to either pull them apart forever, or link their destinies forever. Further, the truth regarding folksinger Moruadh's death also lurks within the concealing shrouding fog, along with those determined to maintain the secrets of the past, adding danger and intrigue to the plotting. Macdonald pulls these varying elements together with finesse, creating a novel rich in atmosphere and filled with fascinating characterizations. THE MAN ON THE CLIFF comes highly recommended.	2002-08-10
1445694:US	49693975	R2X3YUJPBELAJ5	0373710763	664821550	Child of Her Dreams (Harlequin Superromance No. 1076)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	When glamour and practicality - Recommended	...P>CHILD OF HER DREAMS presents an interesting hero and heroine who are total opposites, which thereby places them at cross-purposes. Geena's life after death experience adds an extraordinary element to the novel. While the subsequent tension between characters maintains the reader's interest, the momentum of the tale unfortunately peters out during the second half of the novel, allowing the ending to fall a bit flat. I found myself feeling a bit impatient that she settles for so little after proving her abilities. Nevertheless, I confess to admiring a heroine who swallows her pride to seek a GED while also working hard to overcome a potential eating disorder, which makes reading CHILD OF HER DREAMS a worthwhile read. CHILD OF HER DREAMS comes recommended.	2002-08-10
1445720:US	49693975	R2O4NVR02FQ79M	0373710747	438232885	Disappear (Harlequin Superromance No. 1074)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Intriguing romantic suspense -- Very highly recommended	...P>Author Kay David pens a riveting tale of murder, intrigue and revenge in DISAPPEAR. She captures the essence of the challenges Alexis faces with grace. The struggle to establish a new identity, while forcibly rejecting the old definitions of self, forces Alexis to grow in directions few people must ever experience. Gabriel's own culpability in a mission gone wrong, and his attraction to Alexis, only heightens the tension between them. With a fascinating plot and unexpected twists and turns, David keeps the pages turning. DISAPPEAR comes very highly recommended.	2002-08-10
1445866:US	49693975	R18S7B6B0QY2BZ	0373710755	173104478	Cowboy at the Crossroads: Home on the Ranch (Harlequin Superromance No. 1075)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Delicate family relationships -- Highly recommended	A year ago Cordell Prescott's wife committed suicide, leaving behind a traumatized family. Five-year-old Nicki has yet to begin recovering from the loss of her mother, and after an endless cycle of doctors and psychologists, her father Cord feels desperate. So he asks his brother's friend Becca Talbert for help.<br />Becca understands family trauma, having survived her own share of it. With a month off before beginning her medical practice, she welcomes the opportunity to work with Nicki, using a tough love approach that brings almost immediate results. The attraction between herself and Cord is just as immediate. But bearing undue responsibility for his wife's suicide, Cord does not believe he deserves a woman like Becca.<br />Author Linda Warren pens a touching romance in COWBOY AT THE CROSSROADS. Warren has a gift for portraying delicate family relationships and the effect of guilt. But I must confess that Cord's bullheadedness did grow tiresome. There are times when he belabors issues to such an extreme, their age difference for example, that I just wanted to shake him. Nicki's refreshing personality and the unique cast of secondary characters, however, more than compensate for the impatience I felt with Cord. An altogether satisfying read, COWBOY AT THE CROSSROADS comes highly recommended.	2002-08-10
1446283:US	49693975	R1M3S2NZR1KAEP	0373710747	438232885	Disappear (Harlequin Superromance No. 1074)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Terrific character driven romance -- Very highly recommended	A bit of matchmaking leaves Faith Broderick stranded with Cooper Adams on a dilapidated ranch without electricity, phone service or transportation. While there might not be anything for her at the Triple Bar Ranch, there certainly is nothing to return to in Illinois. Faith may have arrived to accept a position as housekeeper, but she soon wants to stay when she finds love amid the cobwebs, mice, and a bucket fed calf.<br />Cooper finds the magnetism between them irresistible. But it will be years before the Triple Bar Ranch becomes profitable, and right now he cannot even offer running water. Too bad he underestimates the power of old-fashioned bathtubs and candlelight - on both himself and Faith. But a man wants more to offer the woman he loves than falling plaster and leaking roofs. <br />Author Kathie DeNosky's pens a sparking romance in COWBOY BOSS. Faith's queasiness regarding creeping critters lends just the light note of levity to keep COWBOY BOSS a lively read. Faith's disillusion with marriage and her challenge to overcome the scars from the past neatly match Cooper's challenges. Once again DeNosky demonstrates a dazzling gift for creating a character driven tale with emotional depth balanced by the heart. Very highly recommended.	2002-08-10
1446927:US	49693975	R16U60UE7M63AI	0971074909	411027057	The Tooth Fairy Legend: The Touch of Kindness	Books	5	2	2	N	N	My audiance loved it!	...<br />Timeless myth takes a new reality in this beautifully illustrated version of THE TOOTH FAIRY: THE TOUCH OF KINDNESS. Concealed within an entertaining story about young Piper Noble are a number of lessons that parents will appreciate. For example, children learn about the power of love, of accepting other differences, and respect for all people. <br />Having tried this book on an audience ages five and eight, THE TOOTH FAIRY LEGEND is a hit! My young audiance loved the mustic aand narration on the accompanying CDs, and enjoyed following along with the text in the book. They were entranced by the story, and talked about it for days. As a professional caregiver, I appreciated the opportunity for them to enjoy a long story without the TV that we usually have going. For a terrific story accompanied by the beautiful music and marvelous illustrations, THE TOOTH FAIRY LEGEND; THE TOUCH OF KINDNESS comes very highly recommended.	2002-08-09
1447002:US	49693975	R13PM3WPXY5NA7	0446611158	750342547	Slow Hands	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fast paced writing and sexual tension -- Highly recommended	Ten years ago Alec Dempsey promised Keira Morgan the world, but left her with only empty promises. Now pending danger to Keira forces Alec to confront the past when the ATF sends him back to Freedom, Arkansas. Five years ago Ian Griggs and his two brothers hijacked an armored truck, stealing two million dollars. No one recovered the money.<br />Now Griggs sentence has been commuted, and he'll be returning to Freedom to live in a halfway house. Alec also knows about the assault and battery, and attempted rape Ian was never charged with, against Keira. Ian blames Keira for his brothers' death, and the ATF intends to use her and the missing money to apprehend not only Ian, but also his mobster link.<br />When the FBI calls to inform Keira of Ian's return to Freedom, they use her affection for her grandfather to secure her cooperation in their case. But Alec arrives in town early, catching her unprepared. Despite meddlesome rivals, sexual tension sends sparks of electricity neither can ignore. But when the danger ends, Alec has a life elsewhere, and Keira's life is firmly bound to the small town of Freedom.<br />With her first release, LONE RIDER, author Lauren Bach established her hard hitting, powerful style in the romance genre. SLOW HANDS continues that extraordinary voice in a novel rich with fast paced writing and sexual tension. While readers may grow a bit impatient with the man hunting, secondary character who successfully intimidates Keira in her personal life, they will cheer Keira's spunk as she handles testosterone laden professional rivals and lurking danger. A quick read, readers will thoroughly enjoy Bach's SLOW HANDS. Highly recommended.	2002-08-09
1450006:US	49693975	R3RDWUHE7ERIL0	0345440412	807327931	Magnolia Creek	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	As Kentucky struggles to recover from the consequences of the Civil War, her people do not easily forget the transgressions of the past. Small town Magnolia Creeks bears the memory of Sara Collier, a widowed woman who dared to flaunt her relationship with a Yankee soldier before disappearing with him. Now the war has ended, and with nowhere else to go, Sara returns to the town that would prefer to reject her and her small child. Only Lou, her former husband's sister, opens her doors to Sara.<br />Dru Talbet rises from the dead to return home, dreaming of the bride he left behind. Little does he suspect that he has been reported dead. The months and years of surgeon's life during the war have taken their toll, and only the memory of Sara has kept him going. But the war exacts a higher price than just battle service when he's faced with proof of his wife's infidelity. As he sets up practice in Magnolia Creek, he will find the town does not forgive him easily for not forcing Sara to leave immediately. Worse, Dru can neither easily forgive nor forget Sara's infidelity, or his own responsibility in the past.<br />A bold and daring tale of the aftermath of the Civil War, author Jill Marie Landis creates a searing tale of love and betrayal in MAGNOLIA CREEK. Sara's justifiable infidelity challenges readers' perceptions of right and wrong, even as she wins their hearts with her courage and determination. Dru's own responsibility in events gone awry is not to be dismissed, either, as he struggles with the town's opinion of his wife, his feelings, and his attraction to the woman he struggles to scorn. Secondary characters likewise spring vividly to life from Dru's hysterical sister to the devoted freedman who once lived their slave. With surprising plot turns and entrancing characterizations, readers will be mesmerized by this masterful storyteller's voice. Add this one to the keeper shelf. MAGNOLIA CREEK earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-08-06
1450099:US	49693975	RYC5ZA3L2X3OY	037329221X	778201363	A Perilous Attraction	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Refreshingly different -- Very highly recommended	When her uncle squanders her inheritance, Catherine Maury must either give up her work of helping London's orphans to live a life of destitution or she must marry the enigmatic Earl of Caldbeck. When she refuses to see him, Charles breaks the latch on her bedroom door to gain her audience and offer his proposal. He offers Catherine financial support and the means to continue to work with the orphans. In return, he admits to his desire for her beauty, her energy and her elegance. Indeed, he admires her ability to express her passions in contrast to his always calm and cool demeanor.<br />Charles' arrogant exterior with his carefully restrained responses makes Catherine want to break through the surface, at one exasperating her and challenging her. Fortunately, his teasing banter lightens the tone, although Catherine initially is uncertain if she should take his remarks seriously. But just when all seems to be perfect as they settle into marriage together, a dangerous man watches. His evil intent upon destruction haunts the women of the area, and soon it becomes obvious he intends Catherine to be next victim.<br />Author Patricia Frances Rowell pens an intriguing historical romance in A PERILOUS ATTRACTION. The sharp contrast in characterizations makes for delightful reading as Catherine's impulsive, emotional nature provokes reactions in her new husband. Rather than the typical exasperated response, however, Charles admires Catherine's temper and joy in living, seeking her out for the emotional reactions he finds impossible to express. The result is a tender romance tempered by humor as their natures clash. Remarkably, Rowell never falls into the predictable plot devices such contrasting personalities suggest, thereby lending the novel an unexpected freshness and strength. Further, as the ominous foreboding of danger lurking ever closer, readers will find it impossible to put down this terrific read. Very highly recommended.	2002-08-06
1450156:US	49693975	R12E3EX1NWYYNA	0843950366	28088750	Body Electric	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	In a world of a not too distant future, Visimorph monopolizes the computer software industry by replacing all of the world's operating systems with PuppetMaster, a system that insures fat profits for owner Bob McIntire. Every time he issues an upgrade, customers must repurchase their current software or risk not being able to function in society. McIntire draws upon the greatest talents in the industry, including Vic Barhardt, a hacker he rescued from prison. Vic turns her gift for hacking into security systems impregnable against hackers like herself.<br />Using Visimorph resources, Vic creates program, a form of Artificial Intelligence, that she calls Jodie. Vic dreams of imbuing the program with the gifts of femininity without the cultural hassles. Vic feels uncomfortable with her own femininity, disguising her looks with asexual attire so that she might be taken seriously in the computer world. Only late at night in a dangerous world of anonymous sex does Vic indulge her feminine needs, and then only with a mask of leather and control. <br />Then late one night, a miracle occurs. The breath of life transforms Vic's code to a sentient being. As Jodie grows, the AI takes space on the latest Visimorph's server Neuromancer. Soon Jodie expands across other servers as well, including libraries, AT&T, even the IRS. But fragmentation brings about corruption in Jodie's programs. In addition, Jodie declares himself to be male. When McIntire comes to realize that Vic has been working on an AI, he makes plans to use the code for his own purpose. <br />Author Susan Squires plays marvelous word games in BODY ELECTRIC, drawing from classical literature and contemporary science fiction to create a dazzling world of possibility. The dangers suggested by Hal in 2001 A SPACE ODYESSY, echoes from Ray Bradbury or William Gibson remind readers of the dangers inherent in a highly technological society. But beyond the fight between the controllers of the world like Bob McIntire and everyman, Squires strikes at the heart of the challenges to women, from issues of femininity to the need to connect to someone. Vic, a woman of intelligence and beauty who denies her femininity, learns to treasure it when the mask is suddenly ripped away by events beyond her control. Jodie's struggle with emotion and a desire to become something \\"more\\" adds dynamic tension as well. <br />Rich in nuance, BODY ELECTRIC is one of those rare novels that readers may read for simple entertainment, or for much, much more as it explores questions of sentience, humanity, and self-identity. I confess to wishing BODY ELECTRIC had been on my graduate reading list rather than William Gibson, although Squires gives me a new appreciation for his novels! An electrifying novel that belongs on everyone's keeper shelf, BODY ELECTRIC earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-08-06
1450167:US	49693975	R3RW9E1EH1M8VB	0373259905	709508409	Skin Deep  (Heat)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Light-hearted, playful romp -- Highly recommended	When he witnesses Kyra White's public humiliation at the hands of her latest short-term boyfriend, Michael Romero cannot passively watch. In the four years of their friendship, Michael has witnessed more than a dozen men pass through Kyra's life. Despite his feelings for her, Michael refuses to be added to Kyra's short timers until her remarkable transformation inspires his own risk taking, adventuresome spirit to emerge.<br />Following her public humiliation and Michael's rescue, Kyra picks up a copy of Sex Kitten 101 and uses its tips to transform her life. New clothes, new hair and a new attitude attract men like crazy, including the one that has always treated her as a best friend. Certainly, Kyra never expected the complications that would evolve when Michael expresses his desire for her. Nor does she know how to reconcile the sultry siren with the strengths of the old Kyra in a new relationship. <br />Writing team Tori Carrington has a knack for seamlessly blending both the male and female perspective in red-hot reads that keep the pages turning. As SKIN DEEP once again proves, sensuality and emotional complications receive remarkably deft treatment, resulting in unusually rounded characterizations and a fun plot. Indeed, SKIN DEEP is a light-hearted, playful romp that provides just the amusing read readers have coming to expect from Carrington. Highly recommended.	2002-08-06
1450222:US	49693975	RB43DS879VAGD	0595191479	482775360	Mystical Forest of Wise	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Disappointing	With the end of the crusades, Sir Thomas finds himself on a new quest. The King has suggested that he must find a wife and produce an heir for the lands he has been granted. Unfortunately, most women of noble birth prefer a younger husband.<br />Sir Thomas happens upon a castle. The hay for his horse is fresh, but there are no other horses. There is livestock, but no occupants in the castle, yet everything is neat, clean, and fresh. When the Lord of the Castle arrives, he announces that all three of his daughters are already wed, but invites Sir Thomas to enjoy his hospitality.<br />When he departs, his host warns Sir Thomas to stay away from the forest. Soon Sir Thomas understands the warning when he enters the forest and encounters danger. All who enter the forest meet fairies, some enchanted, some not. Some meet a dragon, and not all survive the encounter. The timeless waters, protected by elves, also kill unsuspecting visitors. But once a visitor enters, none may turn back.<br />Reviewing THE FOREST OF WISE creates a sad conundrum for this reviewer. On one hand, the text is riddled with errors in punctuation, sentence fragments, and the wrong word selected during a spell check. On the other hand, the whimsical content reveals an author with great potential. While I cannot recommend THE FOREST OF WISE because of the extensive textual errors, I do hope that the author's style improves sufficiently to compliment her fertile imagination.	2002-08-06
1450326:US	49693975	RWPZFSS9ZLL0	0373259891	199534247	Just Kiss Me	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fiery, daring and often humorous -- Very highly recommended	Amanda Sedgewick enlists Joe Barrington's aid to dissuade his brother Avery. For twenty-one years Avery has assumed that he and Amanda will wind up together and refuses to believe her blatant discouragement. So Amanda hopes that involvement with younger brother Joe will send Avery packing, and perhaps lead to a bit of wild fun. After all, Amanda is not looking for a commitment, although a passionate affair with Joe would certainly fill her fantasies.<br />Amanda's cool looks have never caught Joe's eye. He likes his women hot and passionate. But her harebrained scheme regarding brother Avery replaces his misconceptions with expectations that exceed his wildest fantasies. Suddenly he finds himself swept away by her playful sensuality, inspired to become more than just Dr Avery Barrington's airline mechanic younger brother. Unfortunately, that inspiration can also lead to his downfall. <br />A message on a cocktail napkin transforms lives in Kathleen O'Reilly's newest romance JUST KISS ME. But don't let lively romantic romp fool you; O'Reilly understands the insecurities created by conflicting careers and lifestyles. The strength of this fabulous tale is its confrontation with contemporary challenges and values, and its ability to find a resolution without compromising the strengths of the characters. On one hand, Joe's determination to blaze his own path flags when he does not believe he is worthy of a wealthy lawyer on the fast track to partnership. On the other hand, Amanda treasures the spontaneity and freshness Joe brings to her life, loosening her inhibitions and allowing her to reevaluate priorities. Together their romance is fiery, daring and often humorous. Readers will be watching for a sequel as the proper brother Avery seeks his path to love. Very highly recommended.	2002-08-06
1450832:US	49693975	R2S00NZLORTQ8U	0373272405	859176181	When Night Falls (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	When his daughter Emily disappears, William Armstrong's past returns with a vengeance. Seventeen years ago his girlfriend disappeared without a trace, leaving a legacy of speculation and rumor. Based on circumstances, speculation, and political alliance, police chief Wallace Clark was determined to prove murder but never successful. Now his daughter investigates the disappearance of Liam's daughter, ever aware of possible connections to the past.<br />Like any good cop, Detective Jessica Clark knows emotional involvement equates with disaster in an investigation. Seventeen years of hearing her father rant about Armstrong made it difficult to separate Liam from his past. Now Jessica suddenly finds herself confronted by another side of the man - the father convinced his daughter has been kidnapped. She also feels an odd kinship for the seventeen-year-old she has never met. Soon she realizes that compassion mixed with attraction can be dangerous with danger lurking ever nearer. <br />Author Jenna Mills pens an outstanding tale of intrigue in love in WHEN NIGHT FALLS. With consummate skill, she weaves a tightly woven plot that will keep readers guessing until the last page. In addition, these vividly created characters come alive. On one hand, Liam lives a life that is driven, isolated, and dangerous, softened only by his love for his daughter. His carefully guarded heart, however, is defenseless against the beauty with a badge. On the other hand, Jessica struggles to reconcile rumors of the past with the father she sees in front of her. Further, Jessica lives her father's shadow until Liam forces her to follow her instinct and her heart. Add this one to your keeper shelf! WHEN NIGHT FALLS earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-08-06
1451221:US	49693975	R3VNCJTZC4ILMS	1930586086	64613744	Have No Mercy	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A chilling psychological thriller - Very highly recommended	David Joseph Epstein and Todd Reams grew up together. When David's parents plan to spend their retirement years in Israel, David feels betrayed that they would abandon him. David does not know that Todd manipulated his parents into their departure so that he could move in as a roommate and begin his plan to steal items to fund his own goals. <br />When David catches Todd stealing, a nasty fight ends irretrievably ends their friendship. Both men go onto very successful lives, but neither forgets the events of the past. Indeed, the fires of hatred drive David to a complex plan for vengeance. By all appearances, David is a successful psychiatrist, blessed with wealth, a showcase home and a beautiful wife. Quietly, David orchestrates his revenge, revealing that he \\"has no mercy\\". <br />Author Bobby Ruble pens a tense psychological thriller in HAVE NO MERCY. Ruble understands the intricacies of the human psyche, drawing upon his background as a US Marine Criminal Investigator, a FBI Academy Graduate, and experience as Chief of Police in Kennesaw, Georgia. Ruble's first hand experience with the most dangerous elements of society and the intricacies of the law brings HAVE NO MERCY a chilling reality. Ruble's characters spring vividly to life, carefully concealing their hidden agendas, yet revealing devastating motivation. The juxtaposition of innocence and evil, as women trust and men betray, provides a haunting tale with surprising complexities readers will not want to put down. Add this one to your keeper shelf! HAVE NO MERCY comes very highly recommended.	2002-08-05
1453451:US	49693975	RSA8RVSAQA3YZ	1589091019	674424981	Daily Bread: Seven Days to a Healthier Soul	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellenc	Author Robert Meade brings the experience of over thirty private retreats, his teaching experience, and his own desire for personal growth to a powerful guide for the soul in DAILY BREAD: SEVEN DAYS TO A HEALTIER SOUL. A combination of inspirational scripture readings, personal stories, poetry and questions for reflection provide food for the reader to relish, reflect, and ingest. As each chapter's motif moves the reader through this spiritual journey, the seeds for enlightenment are planted. <br />DAILY BREAD: SEVEN DAYS TO A HEALTHIER SOUL is a powerful personal tool. This guide provides a way of reaching a healing point within the body and the soul through introspection and mediation. It takes you inward, starting the healing process from inside out, because to heal the body without the soul accomplishes nothing. While the total process takes much longer than seven days, readers who follow this introspective guide for seven days will begin a new path of healing and insight that, if sustained, will result in tremendous personal growth.	2002-08-03
1453771:US	49693975	R11UVQ7FZBRSLR	1589091019	674424981	Daily Bread: Seven Days to a Healthier Soul	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Author Robert Meade brings the experience of over thirty private retreats, his teaching experience, and his own desire for personal growth to a powerful guide for the soul in DAILY BREAD: SEVEN DAYS TO A HEALTIER SOUL. A combination of inspirational scripture readings, personal stories, poetry and questions for reflection provide food for the reader to relish, reflect, and ingest. As each chapter's motif moves the reader through this spiritual journey, the seeds for enlightenment are planted. <br />DAILY BREAD: SEVEN DAYS TO A HEALTHIER SOUL is a powerful personal tool. This guide provides a way of reaching a healing point within the body and the soul through introspection and mediation. It takes you inward, starting the healing process from inside out, because to heal the body without the soul accomplishes nothing. While the total process takes much longer than seven days, readers who follow this introspective guide for seven days will begin a new path of healing and insight that, if sustained, will result in tremendous personal growth.	2002-08-03
1454319:US	49693975	R1YSDG79HNPVGI	0595225071	504257660	Transylvania Red	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Stunning realism -- Very highly recommended	Whether he was riding in a tank or ducking bullets, Sam Sloan was a tough foreign correspondent that could handle any challenge to consistently bring home the story. Unfortunately, he has become a dinosaur in a competitive age when newsmakers produce the news in minute-forty bites packaged for the masses. Now New York producers have relegated Sloan to a Polish exile. Even that position proves inconvenient, however, to New York producers intent on presenting an entertaining story when a Dracula theme park plans to open in Transylvania. So Sloan and cameraman Camden must accept Peter Stark, a young, vibrant, attractive news clone that makes a pretty presentation for the camera. Peter, however, is ill equipped for the secrets that come his way. <br />Zoe Paranduru a translator provided by the National Organization of Tourism, and her mysterious boss Nicolae Balaur join the news team. Soon the news team learns of the ancient stories of Vlad Tepes, or Dracula, who bears a startling resemblance to a modern counterpart. Dracula mercilessly reduced the population dependent upon welfare in his day. In the modern era, during the communist reign, such dependents, as well as dissidents, and children, were relegated to government control. Over the years, without paperwork or records, they have been largely forgotten. But with the fall of communism and the advent of capitalism, they have fallen victim to a diabolical money making scheme. <br />Author Bert Quint creates a stunning cross genre novel that will keep readers glued to the edge of their chairs in TRANSYLVANIA RED. This masterfully woven tale includes a dash of romance, a hint of paranormal, and heavy doses of intrigue and suspense to keep tension high. Each strand of the plot reveals hidden motivation and a backdrop steeped in history and the supernatural to create a chilling tapestry of cruelty and evil. Yet the deft touches of black humor and highly believable characters give the novel unexpectedly amusing moments, odd juxtapositions, and stunning realism. TRANSYLVANIA RED comes very highly recommended.	2002-08-02
1454330:US	49693975	R3VUGXU00WZ385	0758201346	875254247	I Love Bad Boys	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Denison does it again! Very highly recommended	Six years ago Gabe Mackenzie foolishly left Chloe Anderson hanging both physically and emotionally. Now Gabe intends...<br />Author Janelle Denison proves raging passion does not necessarily lend itself to control no matter how many years have lapsed in Naughty By Night. Chloe's bold statement, \\"For the next four nights you're mind to do with as I please,\\" sets a highly erotic tone. Indeed, with her characteristic flair for capturing the emotional implications of erotic encounters, Denison creates a heated short story worthy of motivating readers to purchase this collection just for her sexy tale. I only had the privilage to provide an advance review of Denison's tale, although all these authors number among my favorites, and for her contribution alone, this book is worth the price! Bold, daring and endearing, Naughty By Night comes very highly recommended.	2002-08-02
1455643:US	49693975	R2C6CM5VXXXXD	0765340291	947192452	East of the Sun, West of the Moon	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Complex relationships and divided loyalties	A lifetime ago her father introduced Leigh to a handsome young attorney. Three children later, Congressman Bob Fallon's devotion to his constituents supersedes his family responsibilities. Too many lonely nights, changed family plans and missed children's events leave Leigh's life sadly lacking. Her attempts to repair the damage to her marriage go ignored by Bob, opening the path to other, more radical change. <br />The arrival of twenty-seven-year-old graduate student Erik Haukeland from Norway for a year changes her life forever. Finding condoms in her husband's bag, when she cannot have more children, forces Leigh to acknowledge how lacking her marriage has become. Months of celibacy and rejection leave her questioning her womanhood, and Erik's forbidden presence becomes irresistible. No longer will she be a doormat her husband expects. <br />Difficult choices and painful consequences provide powerfully moving themes in EAST OF THE SUN, WEST OF THE MOON. Author Carole Belacera handles these delicate moral and ethical issues with finesse. Without descending into mind games that justify Leigh's actions, Belacera gently charts a course that leads to infidelity, tragedy and eventual healing. Interestingly, Leigh never uses her husband's infidelity to justify her own actions; instead, she takes full responsibility for her choices and the consequences. Further, Leigh's children's response to their mother's infidelity is both believable and excruciating. Moreover, Erik's sense of responsibility adds a powerful dimension as he struggles with his own difficult choices. A novel without easy answers, readers will find themselves pondering the complexities of characters and choices long after the last page is turned. A compelling, powerfully crafted story, EAST OF THE SUN, WEST OF THE MOON belongs on the keeper shelf. Very highly recommended.	2002-08-01
1465681:US	49693975	R3TFJVY5R7AR3H	0373835108	501710672	Return To Crystal Creek	Books	4	2	3	N	N	An enchanting read -- Highly recommended	Authors Vicki Lewis Thompson, Cathy Gillen Thacker and Bethany Campbell have made this reviewer a new fan of the delightful small town of Crystal Creek and its charming citizens. As it faces the radical changes of moving into the new decade, Crystal Creek's determination to maintain small town closeness provides a delightful refuge to readers longing to escape the hurried pace and impersonal feeling of big cities.<br />\\"I'll Take Texas\\" by Bethany Campbell: In the midst of May Madness, a stranger moves through evaluating the landscape and its inhabitants. Nick Belyle brings the promise of radical change in the guise of progress with his representation of Castle Enterprises. But his mysterious errand and its consequences promise to affect all of Crystal Creek. Worse, the last thing Nick expected was to confront the girl he never forgot, or the explosive passion they could share if their interests were not so divided by his job.<br />Author Bethany Campbell pens a powerful tale of lovers caught in star-crossed purposes, confronting the desires of the heart and the demands of loyalty in a story both tender and passionate. Shelby Sprague mistrusts slick men with big city values. Nick is loyal to Castle Enterprises and the miracles the owner made possible. While progress must continue, Campbell pens a solution that shakes the small town of Crystal Creek without destroying it. <br />\\"Made for Lovin' You\\" by Cathy Gillen Thacker: Claire Page left her groom standing at the altar after a stunning disclosure left her unable to marry her blue-blooded fiancé. Now she seeks refuge from the gossip in Crystal Creek, planning to stay away from another relationship until she has time to heal. However, her fierce independence only serves as a challenge to veterinarian Dusty Turner, who cannot resist this sexy city-girl. The more she pushes him away, the more Dusty becomes determined to prove that time has no meaning in matters of the heart.<br />Cowboys, pick-up trucks and spicy Tex-mix make for a flavorful combination with Cathy Gillen Thacker's pen. Claire wisely refuses to salve one broken romance by springing immediately into a new one. Her feistiness and sassiness make for a lively read, especially when Dusty is equally determined to enjoy the magic of love, despite the unfortunate romantic circumstances that drove them both to Crystal Creek. Thacker presents a lovely tale of small town values, healing and enchantment.<br />\\"She Used to be Mine\\" by Vicki Lewis Thompson: Teague Sloan Jr. returns to Crystal Creek on a traitor's mission. Once an employee of the Hole in the Wall Dude Ranch, now he has been contracted to move their exotic animals elsewhere to prepare for Castle Enterprise's extreme changes. Kendra Lynn Burton fell in love with Teague during their time there, but refused to follow him to the big city when he left. Instead, she makes plans to dig her roots even deeper, no matter how Teague uses his return visit to lure her away.<br />Vicki Lewis Thompson uses her skills to blend hot passion with tender emotion to great effect in \\"She Used to be Mine.\\" Teague's carefully planned seduction that goes awry will touch reader's hearts, even as his determination to win the woman he loves puts him directly at cross-purposes with her dreams. With a shared history but different goals, Kendra and Teague seem to find themselves at an impasse that only the charm of Crystal Creek can overcome. <br />Small town Crystal Creek confronts traumatic change when Castle Enterprises lures sellers with millions. From the first moment Nick appears in town, Crystal Creek will never be the same. Nevertheless, authors Thompson, Thacker and Campbell confront those changes with unique voices even as they all move through the transitions gracefully. Readers who have not yet enjoyed a quiet afternoon in Crystal Creek will treasure its memorable citizens and new friends. Readers who've treasured this town through the previous twenty-seven books will take greatpleasure in this RETURN TO CRYSTAL CREEK.	2002-07-23
1465821:US	49693975	R1CIKLCD34HNCY	044661114X	217054040	Lone Rider	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Bikers, handcuffs and danger - Very highly recommended	With the brilliance of the twinkling stars of the Montana sky inspiring her creative edge, jewelry designer Tess Marsh did not notice the light on her dash indicating low fuel until it was too late. An out of area cell phone and a chance encounter with lone rider Dallas Haynes thrusts her into danger when his motorcycle gang tops the hill and he stakes his claim. Within moments Tess finds herself on the back of Dallas, a hostage in the care of a dangerous man who carefully conceals with concern with harsh bravado.<br />Dallas' educated humor sharply contrasts his hoodlum appearance, and as danger escalates, Tess finds herself trusting him. Dallas claims Tess as his exclusive property, effectively keeping other bikers at bay. Meanwhile, she witnesses a brutal murder, knowledge of which puts her in extreme danger. The following weeks are spent handcuffed to a bed by day, and alone with Dallas at night. Dallas does not explain his mission, or that abducting her and holding Tess hostage is the only way to save her life. <br />LONE RIDER by Lauren Bach is one of the most unusual romantic suspense novels I have ever encountered. Readers seem to either love it or hate it, especially when Dallas moves midway from alpha male biker to carefully cultivated government agent. Indeed, the transition may feel a bit concerting. Nonetheless, Dallas is the ultimate bad boy fantasy come true, complete with bike, leather and heart. His extraordinary world of drug trafficking, leather bound bikers, and biker chicks provide a harsh and startling backdrop for socialite Tess. Her determination to survive and resourcefulness makes her a strong character in the face of extreme adversity. With a fast placed, surprising plot, strong emotion and never-ending danger, LONE RIDER provides an extraordinary read that comes very highly recommended.	2002-07-23
1468806:US	49693975	R296NWIHTAAVMT	0446610321	5542264	Hidden Heiress (Secret Clan)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A captivating read -- Very highly recommended	In 1540, citizens on the borders of England and Scotland find their alliances sorely questioned. To assure his position, King James takes Patrick MacRae's liege Mackenzie of Kintail hostage. In exchange for Kin's eventual release, Patrick risks his life to spy for Cardinal Beaton while quietly searching for the missing heiress Bessie, whom most assume to be dead. <br />At every opportunity, Elspeth escapes the drudgery of Farnsworth Tower to enjoy the solitude of the woods. She has no memory of her well-born status or the life she might have led. Instead, she spends her days in service to the family that raised her. Then an unexpected encounter with a stranger fleeing the baying of dogs transforms her life. She leads him to safety, and provides information that opens the opportunity for Patrick to become the falconer for Farnsworth Tower.<br />Through most of their adventure, Elspeth and Patrick are unaware of the well-intentioned magical help they receive. Nor does Elspeth recall the secret sign from her mother that provides a link to her true birth and her link to the Secret Clan. This marvelous supernatural element provides both comic relief and zest to bring this romance charmingly alive.<br />The sequel to ABDUCTED HEIRESS, Amanda Scott's HIDDEN HEIRESS will delight fans of the Highlands and all things fae. Scott's characterizations are richly developed and endearing, her prose so natural that it seems to as if you are witnessing the story rather than reading about it. Both Elspeth and Patrick struggle with misplaced loyalties, lending both fascinating conflict and opportunity for character growth. In addition, Elspeth's story echoes the traditional Cinderella tale with unusual twists that lend it striking originality. Patrick's gift for falconry, with unwitting assistance of a magical nature, also provides an unusual yet fascinating element. Indeed, Scott's seamless blending of historical detail, stunning characterizations and intervention of a magical nature,for both good and ill, all combine in a memorable tale that earns its place on the keeper shelf. Very highly recommended.	2002-07-20
1471050:US	49693975	R2VB5320VLQRQO	1553130944	976427978	The Light: An Alien Abduction	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Recommended	His marriage in tatters, a final altercation drives Lewis to violence when his wife's acts of cruelty and carelessness eradicate his last shred of patience. That impact, flesh against flesh, brought him a raw sense of power that only ends when his eight-year-old son bites him. Fleeing his own violence, Lewis goes to his brother Steven's home. They walk late at night beneath a Southern California sky until a pale green beam of light takes them away.<br />The brothers awaken on an Oceanic spaceship. After testing, the Oceanians determine that Lewis will make the better subject, returning his brother to earth with no memory of their experience. Lewis becomes a member of the crew, traveling to Oceana and learning of their need for a new home world. Technologically advanced, their civilization suffers from reverse discrimination, proving that discrimination can exist no matter the cultural and technical advances.<br />THE LIGHT: AN ALIEN ABDUCTION by Michael L. Thal presents a fascinating cast of characters and contrasting civilizations that are more alike than different in their prejudices. Thal presents a convincing argument for end of nationalism and the need for global unity, and scathing social commentary guised as fiction regarding sexual discrimination. While the tone becomes a bit preachy at time, it also offers a hopeful view of our future. The exploration of consciousness not bound by physical limitations also provides a fascinating subplot. Thal's gift succinct writing style brings this tale vividly alive. Recommended.	2002-07-18
1472974:US	49693975	R3B8WOVYGQL1IU	0738845388	145696243	Becoming Angel	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Recommended with reservations	\\"I'm a beautiful wreck, a becoming angel,\\" John Beckett informs his audience. Indeed, Beck, as he prefers to be called, struggles with the demands of a job he hates, frequent drug and alcohol abuse, and too casual sex. Outwardly, Beck's life seems normal to friends and coworkers. Inwardly, he struggles with useless encounters with his psychologist and frustrated relationships. Yet he maintains a façade of normality until love is added to the equation.<br />Paige Welles relocates to Chicago, accepting a job where Beck works. Their initial meeting seems rather mundane. Soon she joins Beck's buddies meet after work for beer and darts, and sexual attraction brings them together. Paige instigates their relationship, initially taking it far more seriously than Beck. When ex-girlfriend Carolyn reenters his life, the added complications force Beck to reevaluate the past and present. As his life spirals on a downward path, Beck will confront the dark night of his soul.<br />I confess to having difficulty writing this review. On the one hand, BECOMING ANGEL portrays wonderful philosophical insight and extraordinary depth of perception encapsulating a lost of generation. Indeed, author Jim Cherry displays a dazzling skill with words, penning passages that border on poetry. On the other hand, I may have encountered a lifestyle/generational gap I have difficulty comprehending. Hanging out in drug dealer's basements and living in a state of morbid self-pity, not to mention weekend recreational drug use, is beyond my experience and understanding. While he does find eventual redemption and self-understanding, Beck only achieves it in the last page and half, leaving the reader with an unexpectedly sudden resolution to meandering problems and self-delusion. Therefore, as a portrait of the challenges and struggles of the twenty-something crowd, BECOMING ANGEL works well, but probably not for the audience already past the angst of youth. Recommended with reservations.	2002-07-16
1476523:US	49693975	R3JFD0WPXY1Z9D	0373710720	712748532	Mr. Congeniality (Harlequin Superromance No. 1072)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Terrific character driven romance -- Highly recommended	A drunk driver deprived Dean Sheffield of his dreams when a shoulder injury took him from major league baseball and leads to the end of his relationship with the woman he loved. The continual agony of his shoulder serves a reminder of his loss; one he will not discuss with anyone. His consequential gloomy dispossession often earns him the misnomer of Mr. Congeniality. The arrival of Annie Holladay, who accepts a position as his ranch's summer cook, aggravates the situation even more.<br />Annie does not know she looks like Dean's former fiancé, or that her mannerisms serve as an unpleasant reminder of the woman he lost. She does recognize the spark between them, and determinedly tries to reign in her emotions. With his struggle to make a success of his fledgling business, her need to rebuild her life following the destruction of her marriage and the upcoming shift of household for her teen daughter, Annie knows neither she nor Dean need to start a relationship right now. But her heart disagrees. <br />Author Sherry Lewis deftly captures the challenges of life and love in MR. CONGENIALITY. Lewis explores the essence of the conflict between those in the midst of divorce as Annie struggles to make career and family decisions. She also explores the related lost dreams and disillusionment, as well as the need to create a new life with new goals, as shown by both Annie and Dean. Indeed, Dean's challenge of chronic pain, family relationships and his need to reevaluate the past mirrors Annie's struggles. In addition, Lewis' remarkable understanding of the tumultuous teen years adds yet another level of depth. This character driven romance comes highly recommended.	2002-07-13
1476765:US	49693975	R3PM8UJ4DETVR9	0446610542	540641208	The Bachelor (The Chandler Brothers, Book 1)	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Raina Chandler rushes to the hospital with the symptoms of a heart attack. Relieved to learn it is only acute indigestion, Raina decides to turn the situation to her advantage. None of her three sons have married. On one hand, she wants her sons married and she wants grandchildren. On the other hand, her sons believe the word bachelor is sacred. Only a life-or-death emergency will convince her sons of the necessity to get married. <br />The younger two brothers excuse oldest brother Chase on the basis of his sacrificing his life to the family business and flip a coin. Roman becomes the first of the Chandler bachelors to sacrifice his freedom. He savors his freedom and intends to maintain his job as a correspondent to the Associated Press. His future wife will just have to accept his frequent absences. Then he learns that the only girl he could never forget has returned to town. <br />Charlotte Bronson felt the allure of Roman years ago; on their only date she also learned of his plans to depart their small hometown as soon as the opportunity arose. Her mother's example proved the heartache of such an arrangement, so she walked away, but her heart never forgot. Now she is back in Yorkshire Falls and so is Ramon Chandler. It has been ten years, and one look still turns her into a hormonal teenager. But she refuses involvement with a guy who will not be sticking around.<br />The struggle between stability and the need for freedom come head to head in Carly Phillips' THE BACHELOR. Phillips' gift for writing brazenly sensual romance founded on strong emotional connections makes THE BACHELOR a keeper. As Charlotte and Roman struggle with her need for roots and his wanderlust, they both must confront the truth of their own motivations and desires. Add to that a subplot of a panty pilferer who targets only purchases made at Charlotte's lingerie shop, and the result is absolutely terrific. Tender, searing, and amusing, THE BACHELOR earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.Readers will be pleased to learn the next part of the trilogy, THE PLAYBOY, will be available in December 2002, with the concluding segment, THE LONER, available in May 2003.	2002-07-13
1476767:US	49693975	R1E17PK8O0KAA9	0446610526	128664589	The Legend	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Exciting era of highland history! -- Very highly recommended	A lightening strike divides a mighty oak yet lives. Consequently, a seer tells the legend of the MacCurries: three generations of lairds will be born and will die on the same date. Then twins will be born to the third son and they will lead their people to both war and to fifty years of peace. The twins of three generations of men who died on their birth dates, nothing has ever come between brothers James and Neil...except a woman.<br />Ellen refuses to settle for less than a passion that transforms if she is to ever marry. She certainly does not expect to find that passion on the road Dunfllandy Castle as she flees her family home to warn her cousin John of a plot of murder. The would-be assassins pursue Ellen until James MacCurrie comes to her rescue. But he cannot even reveal his true identity since he is taking his twin's place at the gathering of clans.<br />Even as passion draws Ellen and James together the coming war keeps them divided in this tumultuous account of an exciting era of highland history. THE LEGEND begins with James story and leads to the sequel that will follow Neil's quest for love. The richly developed characterization, especially the strength of the bond between the brothers and Neil's jealousy when that bond weakens, lends the novel a marvelous depth. In addition, the tightly woven plot draws readers into a dangerous world of loyalty and betrayal. A must read for historical romance lovers, THE LEGEND comes very highly recommended.	2002-07-13
1477147:US	49693975	RGC58EIMBFBWR	037379052X	84335123	In Hot Pursuit	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Bold and daring! Very highly recommended	Incensed that she has been demoted from M.C. to jailer for the charity auction, Lexi Mansfield still maintains her indomitable style despite the whispers and rumors behind her back. One of New York's leading fashion reviewers and most popular magazine columnists, Lexi has been humiliated an extremely uncomplimentary letter to the editor. Then she jails a dangerous looking cop, blowing his cover and later allowing their \\"two night stand\\" to break all her rules. But Lexi is an all or nothing kind of girl, and cannot settle for a guy who offers to paint her poodle's nails in private but cannot appear at her side in public.<br />Josh Winger attends the charity auction for work, not pleasure. For two months he and his partner have tracked drug smuggling activity in the Garment District without success. His bad boy looks, scars and diamond stud make him look more like the criminal element than the establishment. But when a \\"kinky dominatrix with killer cleavage and a lethal attitude\\" blows his cover, Josh finds the promise of handcuffs and anonymous sex in the dark wildly erotic. When morning comes, he also finds that a single night of hot pursuit is not enough to satisfy the delicious hunger Lexi inspires. Then they realize that that their best friends are getting married, and neither can simply walk away from their wild night. <br />Once again author Joanna Rock demonstrates her sophisticated flair for presenting the unusual and the decadent in her newest release, IN HOT PURSUIT. A remarkably fun plot matches her flair for erotic characterizations with subtle depth. Lexi and Josh are not insecure characters waiting to be \\"fixed\\" or \\"saved\\". These are intelligent, independent people who suddenly realize their lives lack that special spark the other possesses, even as their careers and goals take them separate directions. Like so many modern couples, only compromise and open communication will salvage a relationship thus far built on the fire of passion. Very highly recommended.	2002-07-13
1482211:US	49693975	R39S1ZEYQJFEZF	0821772724	557213078	Call Down The Night (Zebra Ballad Romance)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	A hundred year old curse unconsciously draws Alexandra Gables to Salem, Massachusetts. While she has always been aware of her intuitive gifts, her arrival in Salem seems to greatly magnify them. A woman who defies convention, Alexandra carries a three-foot iguana in a birdcage that manages to make his presence known at the most opportune moments. Her summer plans to remain in Salem cataloguing several scientific collections for a friend of her father turn into quite an odyssey, however, when she meets the son of her host, Pierce Williams.<br />Pierce's conventional views of women belonging to home and hearth take quite a beating as he comes to respect Alexandra's abilities. Her insight in the past or future, however, takes a bit more persuasion. But when she saves the lives of neighbors, predicts a lightening strike and prevents a possible shipwreck, Pierce becomes a believer. When Alexandra's research into an ancient legend threatens danger to him, Pierce cannot deny the strength of her claims, or the power of his own emotions.<br />With paranormal elements, lurking danger and passionate romance, CALL DOWN THE NIGHT has something for everyone. Alexandra is a remarkably intelligent and resourceful woman filled with a zest for living and unwilling to hide her abilities just to suit society or the man she loves. While Pierce does not recognize women as equal to men until Alexandra proves herself again and again, he does valiantly defend her intellectual gifts a way that proves quite endearing. Further, the suspenseful and paranormal elements are nicely offset by humorous attempts of the town witch to assure her daughter's marriage to Pierce. Each time Alexandra circumvents the matchmaking machinations, she does so in ways both humorous and adept. Indeed, author Sandy Moffett utilizes the setting of Salem to great affect, making her tale both ingenious and believable. Without revealing too much, I also feel compelled to share that the twist at the end that leads to theadditional books of the series is rather convention defying and absolutely delightful. I eagerly await the next of the series, TO TOUCH THE SKY to be published in September 2002. Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-07-09
1482762:US	49693975	R2GR1Z7BCVY50S	1573229334	378825763	Losing Gemma	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A stunning drama -- Very highly recommended	In 1989 two best friends, Esther and Gemma, leave England to seek exotic backpacking adventure in India. Ester defines herself a woman of excitement, a lover of movement with no regard to consequences. Gemma is her opposite with her reticence and muddleheaded anxiety. Although Gemma's stolid presence counterbalances Ester's impulsivity, she still does not dissuade Ester's perchance for impetuous danger seeking. Fate, kismet, or perhaps destiny intervenes as Ester tosses a tour book into the air, planning their destination by the page that falls open.<br />Ester and Emma plan to travel to Agun Mazir, Orissa, the strange little shrine of a Sufi mystic and martyr whom spontaneously combusted in 1947. The shrine has become a holy sight for pilgrims seeking miracles. Disregarding cautionary voices, for this is the time of great unrest over Salman Rushdie's novel SATANIC VERSES, Ester and Emma embark upon a train ride Calcutta on the beginning leg of their journey. Between their bickering and petty complaints lie the truths they don't speak. Meeting veteran backpacker Coral on the train heightens the unspoken tension of their relationship as Gemma draws close to her even as Ester pulls away. Then foreboding promises of transformation and combustion lead to a stunning loss that reaches beyond the grave.<br />Debut author Katy Gardner pens a haunting tale of loss of innocence, friendship, and tragedy in LOSING GEMMA. The gripping tone and powerful drama will weave a spell over readers as layers peal away revealing the \\"truth\\" beneath the every day illusions. Careful revelation of motivations, secrets and jealousies expose their vulnerabilities and underscore the distance between people regardless of how close they profess to be. A poignant and powerfully penned work, LOSING GEMMA provides a stunning look at this promising author. Very highly recommended.	2002-07-08
1485085:US	49693975	RYYT2S122X3CL	0821773364	976295205	Innocent Deceptions (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	13	20	N	N	A web of deception and betrayal -- Very highly recommended	The summer of 1862 brings Union soldiers to occupy Memphis, Tennessee. With her father and brother off fighting for the south, Charlotte Randolph maintains the family home and cares for six-year-old Alexander. The rabid hatred of her neighbor leads Union soldiers to her doorstep as they confiscate the family mansion. Charlotte startles one soldier on the stairs in her attempt to escape and leaves behind a powerful impression of innocence. <br />Charlotte returns to the family mansion at her brother's insistence to act as a spy. Instead of weaving innocent deceptions, however, Charlotte soon begins to feel as though she weaves nothing but wicked lies. While Captain Ben Chandler refuses to fall under the spell of her deceit, the other residents of the household seem all too eager to believe in Charlotte's innocence. Truth and deception cannot dwell in the same place, however, and soon Charlotte will find herself caught in a web of her own weaving.<br />INNOCENT DECEPTIONS by Gwyneth Atlee captures readers in a web of deception and betrayal as heroine Charlotte Randolph struggles with the most dramatic moral and ethical question of her time. Rarely does a heroine begin a novel believing in slavery and then come to question its morality in such a powerfully convincing narrative. Captain Ben Chandler likewise presents a powerful dilemma as a southerner fighting for the Union. Even his physical handicap comes as a surprise, lending him vulnerability beneath a commanding presence. Secondary characters are likewise vividly realized, including the implications of an aging General who fights increasing senility, and the free black woman serving as his cook. Indeed, Atlee once again demonstrates her consummate skill of balancing a convincing narrative with memorable characterizations. INNOCENT DECEPTIONS comes very highly recommended.	2002-07-06
1485090:US	49693975	R2VWWEEY4GCMNF	0373710739	791898673	The Apple Orchard: Single Father (Harlequin Superromance No. 1073)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Trauma and healing - Very highly recommended	Devoted to her job, Abby Mackenzie loves Mondays when she begins yet another week as a psychologist. Then one Monday morning she walks into her office to find blood spattered everywhere - a police officer she had been counseling committed suicide in her office. Now traumatic shock syndrome plagues her life, forcing her to reevaluate her chosen profession. After all, if she cannot help herself, then perhaps she cannot help others either. So she abandons her office for the temporary physical labor in apple orchard, hoping the hard work will bring the exhaustion of much needed sleep.<br />Two years ago Dr. Jake Templeton and his daughter Stacey suffered the loss of his wife. Four therapists have not been able to bring joy back to his daughter's eyes. Believing Stacey has suffered enough loss, Jake cautions Abby to keep her distance from his vulnerable daughter. Despite his determination to remain stoically uninvolved with Abby, Jake finds himself drawn to both her strengths and her vulnerabilities.<br />Traumatic shock syndrome brings three characters together in an unforgettable tale of trauma and healing in THE APPLE ORCHARD. Abby's flashback paralyze her career, leaving her questioning her abilities. Her need for healing opens the path for young Stacey to find her own path to healing. As mistrust of therapists gives way to hope, Jake alters his opinions of psychologists and his plans for the future. A beautifully written, character driven romance filled with hope, THE APPLE ORCHARD comes very highly recommended.	2002-07-06
1485126:US	49693975	R35U4NOMY69EPR	0373259883	348496450	A Shameless Seduction  (Heat)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Erotic love letters and transformation	Erotic love letters inspire Melodie Turner's transformation from secretary to siren when she decides to prove she can be the woman her boss Cole Summers needs. Cole must find a woman to go undercover to recover erotic, suggestive letters for a client. Melodie needs to grab Cole's attention. So she abandons her discreet, proper attire and behavior for titillating clothing and a new attitude of seduction. She intends to prove her capability of handling the case as well as winning her man.<br />Cole Sommers' PI business leaves no time for other interests. Since he was twenty-one, Cole has supported his family and fulfilled his responsibilities admirably. Only lately, he has begun to feel as if something crucial is missing from his life. Although he finds his secretary attractive, he believes her to be too sweet, innocent and too nurturing for a man like him. Then Melodie shows up in the office transformed into a seductress. Too bad that Cole cannot get involved with the daughter of police sergeant Richard Turner.<br />Author Janelle Denison pens a tantalizing, dynamic romance with A SHAMELESS SEDUCTION. From the moment Melodie reads A Good Girls Guide to Being Bad, she boldly plans her seduction of Cole. Indeed, it is her boldness that makes Melodie both a charming heroine and an unexpected pleasure. Even when her plan does not go as she expects, Melodie does not compromise her transformation. Furthermore, Cole's determination to fulfill his responsibilities at the expense of his own personal desires makes for an interesting challenge. Melodie's daring letters add just the right amount of titillation to make A SHAMELESS SEDUCTION a stunning and memorable read. Very highly recommended.	2002-07-06
1485307:US	49693975	R2K4Z6ROGDCVNJ	0373710704	682387803	Midway Between You and Me: In Uniform (Harlequin Superromance No. 1070)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Sensitive issues beautifully handled -- Very highly recommen	Somewhere between sunset and sunrise, a young soldier gives his heart to a very young Vietnamese woman. Events beyond their control tear them apart, but not before she becomes pregnant. The soldier gives her a picture, a vital piece of paper with his name, rank, and social security number, and his heart. Her memory will haunt him for the next thirty years. <br />The daughter of that union, Professor Tam Nguyen worries her mother will only find heart breaking answers in her search for her \\"husband.\\" Tam has her own misgivings about finding the man who fathered her, but she needs answers that can provide necessary closure. Then the passage of another soldier through the Midway Islands, where she works for the Department of Fish and Wildlife, suggests answers to the past. <br />Unfortunately, Tam has long since lost her taste for a man in uniform, and the man who unknowingly holds the key to the past boldly sports a Navy SEALS uniform. Nevertheless, Lieutenant Bowie Prince is determined that she gets to know the man behind the uniform. So when the reclamation project allows him to be stationed at Midway, Bowie makes plans to alter her opinion of men in uniform.<br />Author Rogenna Brewer seamlessly blends fact and fiction in this marvelous compilation of cultures, history, the past and present in MIDWAY BETWEEN YOU AND ME. As a student of Vietnam War literature in college, I've read a wide variety of literature dealing with the after effects of the War, and was both surprised and pleased to encounter these powerful themes in series romance. Brewer's first hand knowledge of the Midway Islands brings the beauty and potential for danger vividly alive in this exotic backdrop. Likewise, Brewer's knowledge of culture and the struggles of a woman torn between those cultures lend her heroine both vulnerability and strength in equal measures. Further, Bowie's internal conflict as he struggles between loyalties to a man his father served with and the needs of a woman he is growing to love prove to be a powerfully effective motivation. As Brewer recognizes, the answers to the heart lie somewhere \\"MIDWAY BETWEEN YOU AND ME.\\"	2002-07-06
1485361:US	49693975	R3T9PDMBAMJNSP	0971349606	686763033	1: The Adventures of Little Johnny Diamond Private Eye	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Terrific detective book -- Very highly recommended	What eight-year-old Johnny Diamond lacks in friends he compensates for with his vivid imagination. Wearing his father's trench coat and hat, and armed with his detective tools, Johnny slips around the house and recovering lost objects. Sometimes he makes up mysteries about the neighborhood, entertaining his mother and Officer Jones with stories of how he solved the mysteries. Then one summer day Johnny sees something very suspicious and becomes the only person who can solve the neighborhood crime.<br />THE ADVENTURES OF LITTLE JOHNNY DIAMOND PRIVATE EYE is a marvelous story that works on a number of levels. First, it's an entertaining story that will delight young mystery lovers. But it is also a tale of imagination and sticking to the truth when even your parents don't believe you. Illustrator Chuma Okoli's powerful and realistic style perfectly compliments the fascinating text. In addition, Author Clay Titus' background as detective and police officer give the story a sense of believability while maintaining an entertaining element, making THE ADVENTURES OF LITTLE JOHNNY DIAMOND PRIVATE EYE come very highly recommended.	2002-07-06
1485363:US	49693975	R3TLM9BLI3CEMR	0373710682	213349796	The Notorious Mrs. Wright (Harlequin Superromance No. 1068)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A marvelous read -- Very highly recommended	Her father's tutelage resulted in Emma Webster's extraordinary skill with illusion. Until she ran away from home as teenager, Emma ran cons with her father, transforming herself into various characters with amazing skill. Twenty years later, living under an assumed identity, Emma must confront the past when her brother sends Private investigator Whit Lewis to find her. <br />Emma now lives as Susan Wright, proprietor of Illusions, a successful restaurant with marvelous themes enacted with costuming she inherited from a friend. She has never told her son the truth of his parentage, of her identity, or of the past. Whit's arrival in her life forces Emma to face the moral and ethical dilemmas her life chooses have created. <br />Author Fay Robinson creates a delightful read in THE NOTORIOUS MRS. WRIGHT with its unusual combination of opposites, secrets and danger. The skillful manipulation of ethical and moral dilemmas force Emma to confront the past in order to create a future. Her concerns for her teen son particularly reveal an endearing vulnerability; her ability to survive extraordinary circumstances with her resourcefulness and skill reveals her incredible strengths. Whit's nonjudgmental acceptance proves to be refreshing even as he struggles with his own ethical dilemmas. With an unusual and fast paced plot and these eccentric, yet charming characterizations, THE NOTORIOUS MRS. WRIGHT comes highly recommended.	2002-07-06
1485504:US	49693975	RFWAWDTHEBU6Q	0446610526	128664589	The Legend	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Exciting era of highland history! -- Very highly recommended	A lightening strike divides a mighty oak yet lives. Consequently, a seer tells the legend of the MacCurries: three generations of lairds will be born and will die on the same date. Then twins will be born to the third son and they will lead their people to both war and to fifty years of peace. The twins of three generations of men who died on their birth dates, nothing has ever come between brothers James and Neil...except a woman.<br />Ellen refuses to settle for less than a passion that transforms if she is to ever marry. She certainly does not expect to find that passion on the road Dunfllandy Castle as she flees her family home to warn her cousin John of a plot of murder. The would-be assassins pursue Ellen until James MacCurrie comes to her rescue. But he cannot even reveal his true identity since he is taking his twin's place at the gathering of clans.<br />Even as passion draws Ellen and James together the coming war keeps them divided in this tumultuous account of an exciting era of highland history. THE LEGEND begins with James story and leads to the sequel that will follow Neil's quest for love. The richly developed characterization, especially the strength of the bond between the brothers and Neil's jealousy when that bond weakens, lends the novel a marvelous depth. In addition, the tightly woven plot draws readers into a dangerous world of loyalty and betrayal. A must read for historical romance lovers, THE LEGEND comes very highly recommended.	2002-07-06
1485534:US	49693975	R2D2B8THS0MLO9	0821773720	863111148	The Prodigal Son: Reluctant Heroes (Zebra Ballad Romance)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Fantastic read! Very highly recommended	Eric and Trelane Grayson are mirror images of one another, identical to virtually everyone with the exception of their mother. When Eric enters the family library from the outside with his convenient stickpin and chances upon the beautiful Belle Kingsley, he can't resist stealing a kiss, little suspecting he holds his brother's fiancée. Near sighted and without her spectacles, Belle does not know that the first sensual kiss she has ever experienced was not delivered by her fiancé, Trelane. <br />Meanwhile, an argument distracts guests of the Grayson's ball. Belle's father wants Trelane to aid him with his next expedition, one in search of the Holy Grail. But Trelane believes the search to be a pipedream, and will not vote for her father's application. Someone, however, is listening and watching. Later that night Trelane is beaten and left for dead. Now Eric must take his brother's place and find the would-be killer and clear suspicion of Belle's father. Somehow he must also balance his emotions and desires while taking his brother's role as Belle's fiancé. Unfortunately, this woman who values truth and honesty above all else will not take kindly to such a profound a deception, regardless of the motives. <br />Author Susan Grace once again exhibits her mastery of the historical romance genre with the PRODIGAL SON in a combination of romance, mystery, and suspense. Grace's powerful story telling voice, spirited heroines and lusty men simply grow stronger and more exciting with each novel. Belle exhibits an odd combination of reticence and boldness as she acquiesces so easily to her fiancé's demands to leave behind her spectacles, yet she is an intellectual and world traveler. Like Lady Cat, she thrives upon her brand of adventure and daring. A mercenary, Eric can fight, plan subterfuge, and tread where angels fear, yet he is afraid of the dark. A rich secondary plot adds spice with the free spirited and boldly spoken Paris and Eric's staid brother Trelane. <br />Readers who adored \\"Lady Cat\\" and her wild adventures will welcome her return and will be happy to find her to still be the sparkling, daring woman of her youth. Fans who have not yet discovered the marvelous Destiny's Lady series will find themselves scurrying for the tales leading up to this wonderful new series. All fans will also find themselves eagerly awaiting the second book in the Reluctant Heroes series, THE RUNAWAY DUKE, which will be released in October 2002, when Lady Cat's brother Jonathan Carlisle finds the path to love cannot be denied. Incidentally, the promise of the maturing young India will also have readers casting their eyes to the future and hoping for a third generation of these memorable characters.	2002-07-06
1485587:US	49693975	R2EX46O18J2NCR	0373259859	362256542	For The Love Of Nick (Cooper's Corner)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Dog napping and old flames -- Very highly recommended	Dog napping puts Danielle Douglass on the wrong side of the law when she rescues her beloved bullmastiff from her ex. It was bad enough when Ted changed the locks on the house, stole her car, and cleaned out her bank account. But he went too far when he neglected their dog, staking Sadie outside without water or food. Ted's sudden and vicious temper against the dog had long since convinced Danielle of the need to rescue the beloved puppy - all one hundred and fifty pounds of her. Now Danielle just needs professional photos of Sadie to open the door to possibilities for commercial endorsements.<br />Nick Cooper had not seen Danielle since high school, but she has long been an item of fantasy. A Pulitzer prize winning new journalist, Nick agreed to maintain the family owned photography studio for two weeks until his sisters get back. He intends to use the down time for recreational sex and sleep. But when Danielle suddenly appears, obviously in need of help, Nick drops everything, refusing to abandon her a possibly dangerous fate. It does not take long for Nick to realize that the reality of Danielle's presence holds far more potency than his most vivid fantasy.<br />Author Jill Shalvis pens a funny, sexy, passionate roller coaster ride in FOR THE LOVE OF NICK. Danielle and Nick are perfect for each other, yet her fierce independence and dangerous ex keep tensions high. The instant spark between these two during this unlikely reunion sets them on fire, leaving Danielle wondering how far she will go FOR THE LOVE OF NICK. Nick has never forgotten that night in high school when his dream girl let him close; she has never forgotten his tender assistance during mortifying circumstances. Yet that incident seems like a thin excuse for Nick to jump in with both feet if it weren't for his softhearted way of always assisting someone in need, and his wildly romantic memories of his first crush. Very highly recommended.	2002-07-06
1485707:US	49693975	R1EBOYJRU12LAN	0373710712	339476337	What the Heart Wants: 9 Months Later (Harlequin Superromance No. 1071)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Contradictions and possibilities -- Very highly recommended	Ivy Parker abandoned her dreams when her unfaithful husband died and she lost her unborn child. Despite her longing for a traditional home and family, she recreates a family with what little it left to her - a ramshackle town and an elderly aunt. She dreams now of bringing new life to the dying town, but that requires an answer from the illusive owner of most of the town's buildings. Unfortunately, the owner seems to prefer to hiding behind an anonymous PO Box rather than making much needed repairs. <br />Ivy does not know her letters have been received and that Lincoln Galloway III comes to investigate the letter writer. His faded jeans and battered truck bespeak a kind of soul weariness that appeals to Ivy. When she offers his room and board in exchange for a bit of labor, Linc accepts, planning to use the job for a quick, covert examination of the properties that are all that remains of his brother's widow's assets. He does not intend to come to admire Ivy's spunk, or to enjoy her scent of cinnamon and flowers. Only too soon, however, Linc finds himself facing an impasse as he does not see a way to protect his sister-in-law's needs without destroying Ivy's dream.<br />Learning to listen to one's heart provides powerful motivation in Jean Brashear's WHAT THE HEART WANTS. Brashear captures these powerful motives and emotions with a graceful narrative rich in nuance. Impossibilities and contradictions lend powerful tension as Ivy struggles to rediscover her dreams and Linc struggles with self-forgiveness. Disillusionment with past dreams seems to warn the heart away, yet neither Ivy nor Linc seem to be able to resist the call of love -- or know quite what to do with it. Secondary characters, particularly the mature romance that evolves concerning Ivy's aunt, provide touching entertainment. Readers will eagerly look forward to the next installment of series concerning Ivy's sister Caroline in THE HEALER next year. WHAT THE HEART WANTS comes very highly recommended.	2002-07-06
1485887:US	49693975	R8G4T3MMH03XO	0312870345	224539786	Evening's Empire	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Mesmerizing -- Very highly recommended	Two years after his wife falls to her death in a bizarre accident, music composer Russell Kent returns to the town of Evening, a small town set on the Oregon coast. Nightmares and lack of creative energy have drawn him back in the hopes of getting closure to his loss. From a room at the local bed and breakfast, Russ hopes to write an opera based on Jules Verne's TWENTY THOUSAND LEAGUES UNDER THE SEA. <br />As his heart heals, Russ finds love and friendship in the town of evening. His creative energies recaptured, he begins satisfying work on his opera, the echoes of the music in head matching the mystical elements created of sun, sea, and secrets. For soon he learns of the town's secret, an empire hidden under the hill that will change his world.<br />Author David Herter combines contemporary fantasy with a literary form of story telling to pen a haunting, lyrical tale in EVENING'S EMPIRE. The echoes and subtle nuances drawn from literature and music result a surreal sense of the unexpected that subtly draws the reader into a tale as odd in the telling as in the content. Yet the rhythms and interweavings are almost magical in their allure, making it impossible to put the book down. At once riveting and bizarre, readers will find their imaginations taking flight with EVENING'S EMPIRE. Very highly recommended.	2002-07-06
1485976:US	49693975	R3CBDCHOVCR1XJ	0373169310	813647724	Catching the Corporate Playboy (Harlequin American Romance, No 931)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Matchmaking, betting, and true love -- Highly recommended	Grandpa Joe indoctrinates family members in the family corporation beginning at the ground level. One day Darci Sanders intends to replace her father when he retires, but for two weeks, she proves her skills by waitressing. Of course, brother Harry bets her a thousand dollars that she cannot make it through her new assignment. So Darci slings hash at Grandpa Joe's Good Eats and lives for the day she escapes grease and cotton candy pink uniforms. <br />Despite the ugly pink uniform, Darci looks good to Cameron O'Brien. Cameron always has a bet going with best friend Lee Reinhart. So it is no surprise when Lee challenges him to polish their waitress into something \\"socially acceptable.\\" Neither realizes she has not only overheard their tomfoolery, but has social skills that rival their own. So she plays along to teach Cameron a lesson, but Darci best guard her heart or the lesson just might be on her.<br />Author Michele Dunaway turns the theme of My Fair Lady on its ear in CATCHING THE CORPORATE PLAYBOY. Matchmaking, betting, and true love come together in this light, romantic comedy that keeps the reader gently amused. Cameron's arrogance meets its match when Darci shows him the beauty of a sunrise and a good time. But lies and deliberate manipulations must always give way to the truth, especially when hearts become involved. Both Cameron and Darci have a lot to learn about risk taking and honesty if she is planning on CATCHING THE CORPORATE PLAYBOY. Highly recommended.	2002-07-06
1485985:US	49693975	R1DG4TWKS8KY3Y	0373441460	658462908	Just Desserts / Green Eggs and Sam (Duets, 80)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A tasty treat -- very highly recommended	July Duets cook up a sumptuous feast with the combination of JUST DESSERTS by Jennifer Drew and GREEN EGGS & SAM by Susan Peterson. This sinfully tasteful combination will certainly fill the comedic romance lover's appetite. Very highly recommended.<br />JUST DESSERTS by Jennifer Drew: The annual Taste of Phoenix food show provides chef Sara Madison the opportunity to enhance her reputation and show off her skills. Unfortunately, reporter Jeff Wilcox lands her in the hot water, leaving her unemployed and banished from any kitchen that does not laden on hot grease. Fortunately, culinary karma works both ways, and a nice reference lands her a new opportunity to prove her talent. Then Jeff shows up working undercover and asking for her assistance. Sara fears that her sweet success will quickly become bitterer than unsweetened chocolate with Jeff and passion stirred in the mix.<br />I am quite a fan of the mother/daughter duo that comprises Jennifer Drew and feel compelled to admit that I like this one best so far! Their wild antics and marvelous gift for comedy combine in a seamless narrative that keeps the giggles coming. Out of control golf carts, soggy cream puffs and alien chasing convention goers provide the perfect backdrop for Sara and Jeff. Sara's fire and feistiness keep passion stirring, and Jeff's determination keeps their relationship at nice simmer. Witty, outrageous, and delicious, JUST DESSERTS serves a flavorful romance decadently rich as Godiva chocolate.<br />GREEN EGGS & SAM by Susan Peterson: Outrageously dressed Haley Jo Simpson does not fit Sheriff Sam Matthews' ideal for a prospective date. In fact, Sam is more comfortable with hiking boots on women than Capri pants and heels. He does his best to overlook black lace and a short robe, however, when he arrives on the scene to investigate a murder. When he takes Haley Jo into protective custody and gives her a jail cell of her own to sleep in, he leaves the door unlocked on the cell and on his heart. But Haley Jo is going to need more than just green eggs to lure Sam's heart out of protective custody.<br />I am new to author Susan Peterson's work, but GREEN EGGS & SAM has made me a fan. Rather than falling into the stereotypical plot device of putting Haley Jo up in Sam's five-bedroom home, Peterson lands her heroine in jail instead. Of course, finding the overweight murder victim covered in chocolate wrappers and dressed only in a thong does a great job of kicking off this cunningly amusing read as well! Haley Jo may dress like an airhead, but her outrageous style and marvelous spirit conceal a woman of intelligence that the entire town comes to love. The juxtaposition of such a free spirit with a very staid sheriff who happens to have a free spirited daughter makes GREEN EGGS AND SAM a tasty treat.	2002-07-06
1486031:US	49693975	R1PMP2K8G5RS2U	0373790511	837034810	Whisper	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Magnolias and a whisper -- Very highly recommended	The scent of magnolias permeates the air as Genna Monroe listens to a seductive, masculine whisper coming from the dark. At first thinking his words are meant for her, \\"Tell me what you want,\\" her body responds to his whispered sensuality. At once disappointed the words are meant for another, and too tantalized to leave and interrupt the tryst, she remains to listen to the man's worshipful words to the anonymous woman's body, wishing someone would treat her as well. An interruption stops the lovers, the woman leaving with regret, and Genna lingers in the dark alone before returning to the company party.<br />Nick Cavallo sips bourbon and lingers on the verandah cursing himself. Genna must have heard them. Four years of longing for a woman who treats him as an affectionate sister leaves him frustrated. She has never suspected his feelings. But Genna didn't recognize the identity of the whisperer, and Nick turns opportunity to his advantage. They play out a sensual fantasy of heat and passion. But love demands truth, and both have much truth telling and self-examination to endure if they can ever be together for longer than a whisper.<br />Author Nancy Warren plays out a delectable fantasy in WHISPER. A sensual treat that combines eroticism with friendship, Warren deftly confronts the needs of the heart with the need to either gain or loose control. Warren forcing her characters to confront their worst fears even as they play out their secret fantasies. Genna is driven to success, determined to make partner at the expense of any other goal until magnolia blossoms and whisper prove unbearably distracting. Nick has hidden his feelings for years, dating bimbos for distraction and sexual satisfaction but reserving his heart for Genna. Their coming together entangles them both in a battle of priorities and self-honesty, resulting is read that is both rich in characterization and generous in sensuality. Very highly recommended.	2002-07-06
1486055:US	49693975	R2ZZMESCY11CVR	0373710690	892091771	The Seven Year Secret: A Little Secret (Harlequin Superromance No. 1069)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Deeply emotional - Very highly recommended	Six year old Liddy Forrester's kidney transplant brought about eight months of miraculous normalcy before her body's rejection plummets her into ill health and dialysis. Doctors remove the kidney that her mother Mallory donated, and place her on the national donor waitlist. Now Mallory will do anything for her daughter, and decides to contact her child's father to ask for a miracle.<br />Seven years ago Connor O'Rourke accepted his dream opportunity to develop an early warning system for hurricanes. He left before Mallory told him that she was pregnant. When her letters went unanswered, Mallory moved on with her life. But now she must track Connor down, announce his fatherhood, and ask him to donate a kidney to save his daughter's life. Inadvertently interrupting his bachelor party only proves to be the beginning of their renewed and tumultuous relationship.<br />Author Roz Denny Fox has a knack for tackling hard-hitting topics and presenting them with flair - a talent she dazzlingly displays with THE SEVEN YEAR SECRET. Having lived with a transplant patient, I've experienced first hand the challenges Fox so deftly describes, particularly as a patient's body rejects a much-needed transplant. In THE SEVEN YEAR SECRET, such frightening issues are sharply compounded by this patient's tender age. On one hand, the child's mother Mallory consequently displays the sharp protectiveness of a lioness any time she believes her daughter to be affected by the actions of her previously absent father. On the other hand, Connor responds with shock and love when he learns of his child, and persistence in the face of Mallory's resistance to his efforts - right to the bitter end. And while I occasionally grew impatient with Mallory's tunnel vision, her preoccupation with her daughter's health certainly justifies her attitudes. THE SEVEN YEAR SECRET comes very highly recommended.	2002-07-06
1492964:US	49693975	R36WICUQH3VV1S	0821772562	576395379	Delphine (Zebra Ballad Romance)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Sweeping adventure across land and the sea	The fourth book in Cherie Claire's The Arcadians series, DELPHINE continues the adventures of a family exiled from Nova Scotia by the English in 1775. Now reunited in the Louisiana bayous, these forbears of people later called Cajuns once again risk becoming victim to the English in the years preceding the American Revolution. <br />Against this monumental historical backdrop, Delphine Delaronde grows up as the daughter of the smuggler Jean Bouclaire. She falls in love with her father's partner, Philibert Bertrand. But spurned love causes her to cast aside the forests of Louisiana temporarily in favor of the drawing rooms of France. The endless adventures of sea breezes and salt air make her leery of the pomp and circumstance of her inheritance, but she quickly finds herself loving her new grandmother and accepting her guidance. <br />A year after Delphine relocates to France, Phil arrives in France intending to persuade Delphine's grandmother that she is needed at home. He is haunted by the night when he denied his heart and mistakenly turned Delphine away. Unfortunately, the Countess die before his arrival, and Delphine has become a noblewoman with an inheritance and a title. No person of nobility may retain their status if they marry a commoner like himself. Worse, the woman who destroyed his life in France has become a strong influence in Delphine's life.<br />Author Cherie Claire masterfully blends the challenges of history, love and loyalty in DELPHINE. From the grand mansions of the aristocrats of France to the marauding dangers of the high seas, this rich plot combines intrigue, treachery, and traitorous love in a riveting novel readers will not be able to put down. Delphine exhibits a youthful rashness that quickly grows into a resourceful and daring strength as she matures. Phil's past makes thoughts of the aristocracy abhorrent, likewise demanding considerable character growth if he is to have the woman he loves. Secondary characters likewise come stunningly alive, especially the woman who broke Phil's heart twenty years ago. DELPHINE comes very highly recommended.	2002-06-29
1495335:US	49693975	RLTWLQ6UHCXSW	1583456031	685404580	Shadow Wind	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Intriguing! Very highly recommended	Maxwell Houghton rejects the spoiled life of a socialite and the possibility of taking over his father's business. Instead, he admires his grandfather's restless spirit and rebellious imagination. Nevertheless, Grandfather Ben makes his work at the bank bearable. His father, however, longs to bring both Grandfather Ben and Maxwell to heel. Then Maxwell is framed for murder, and Grandfather Ben uses his resourcefulness to get Maxwell on an outbound ship before he can be arrested and tried for murder.<br />Grandfather Ben puts Ben aboard a ship he mistaken believes bound for Charleston, planning to use the three months absence to prove his grandson's innocence. Instead, they have fallen into a trap set by a devious man from Grandfather Ben's past. Maxwell is bound for San Francisco and will be absent at least a year. Worse, he has become a pawn in a deadly game and can trust no one. <br />In a fascinating mix of genres, including intrigue, suspense, mystery, and sea faring drama, Edward Mann creates a novel that will suit fans of any ilk. Indeed, SHADOW WIND presents a rising voice in fiction with fluid dialogue, rich characterizations, and a strong premise that not only provides a strong foundation for SHADOW WIND but also the two planned sequels. Further, Maxwell's maturation at sea and his devotion to his grandfather create strong sympathy in the reader. In addition, the fast paced plot will keep readers hooked to the last page and clamoring for the sequels. Very highly recommended.	2002-06-27
1495619:US	49693975	R2S0635FIR1KH8	0373790481	216395147	My Sexiest Mistake	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Dazzling debut novel! Very highly recommended	Part time romance author Ryan Donnelly would dearly love to trade her career as a corporate trainer for writing full time. Unfortunately, her own life experience has prepared her for little more than writing simple, sweet romances. Now her must write the steamier versions of romance if she wants to make the transition. One inept experience eight years ago does not provide the needed inspiration. So her agent persuades her to hire a gigolo to cater to her needs. But a case of mistaken identity leads her the bedroom with the wrong man...who turns out to be perfect; that is, until she realizes her horrendous mistake.<br />Four years after his divorce and sexy Cade Douglas still goes home alone. So when a sensually delightful woman presents herself, he cannot resist the invitation to her room. Even as he realizes he is not the man she requires, Cade cannot walk away from such a luscious opportunity. He promises her to explain when they meet a second time, but the outraged Ryan has her own plans. Realizing her mistake, Ryan seduces Cade into allowing her tie him to the bedposts, takes her pleasure, and leaves him partially bound and his clothes lying in a tub of water. Of course they meet again weeks later, in a professional environment, and then things get real interesting!<br />You've got to love a woman daring enough to use a man for her pleasure and then leave him bound to the bedposts. Of course he can eventually free himself, but not until she's made her point. Moreover, you've also got to love a man so determined to satisfy! Ryan and Cade are the kinds of characters romance readers adore, showing tremendous growth and change, hearts of gold, and a real pizzazz for sensuality. Secondary characters likewise sparkle. Ryan's gravelly-voiced agent and her new love will bring smiles as well. <br />Debut author Kristin Hardy's own impetuously spontaneous nature dazzles in MY SEXIEST MISTAKE. She admits MY SEXIEST MISTAKE was inspired by her attendance at a writers' conference. She plotted out this Blaze novel on the plane home and wrote the draft of Chapter One that night. Harlequin wisely bought this outstanding new voice, and her subsequent three book will be released by Blaze in 2003. Hardy is definitely a rising star to watch for. MY SEXIEST MISTAKE comes very highly recommended.	2002-06-27
1501006:US	49693975	R131H5NBGMAKPA	1591130522	783062856	A Complete Woman	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A powerful voice in women's fiction	A miscarriage ends Tracy Johnson's three year relationship. This was her third miscarriage, and it leaves her emotionally devastated as Tracy attempts to reconcile her life with her vision of \\"a complete woman.\\" She believes a woman who cannot bear children to be incomplete. <br />Soon the death of a friend's mother brings Tracy and her high school friends together. Each struggles with their own definitions of what makes a complete woman and what they lack. Issues of sexuality, lies, and secrets leave Tracy with a profound epiphany. <br />A strong voice in women's fiction, author Nicole Kurtz examines what it takes to be A COMPLETE WOMAN. The rich complexity of this question comes vividly alive as women find themselves lacking because they define themselves by their relationships, their ability to procreate, or to be something \\"more\\". Kurtz reveals the superficiality of the stereotypes that often define women's lives in this vividly created work that almost all women can identify with. A powerful voice in women's fiction, Nicole Kurtz is a writer that commands reader's attention. A COMPLETE WOMAN comes very highly recommended.	2002-06-22
1505245:US	49693975	R2INAMKRKZ2VHP	0373244614	616749473	Force Of Nature (The Westmoreland Diaries) (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Michael Westmoreland stills lies in a hospital bed trapped in the netherworld of coma. Yet he remains somehow aware of the force of a woman's love that calls him from the twilight world of deep sleep. Meanwhile, his daughter Hannah pursues her own path to love in the most unlikely of places as she visits yet another of the world's most remote and dangerous places to find a story.<br />Hannah flies into Alaska's deepest realms to capture the story of wolves. But someone else walks the heights of these mountains sharing the majesty and power of their primal energies. Twenty years ago, nine-year-old Hunter Wolfe disappeared in a near fatal crash. Rescued and raised by wolves, he has forgotten much of his human side in his bid to survive. <br />Glimpsing Hannah makes Hunter remember things long forgotten and long for things he has never had. When she convinces him to go home with her to Mississippi, they confront the clash of the wild and civilized. The question remains if Hannah to love enough to let go when nature calls her son back to her realms - or to follow. <br />Author Peggy Webb's FORCE OF NATURE provides a stunning conclusion to her The Westmoreland Diaries trilogy. This primal, sexually intense climax sharply contrasts the tones of the first two novels, providing a book as deeply profound in essence yet wildly different in tone. Heroine Hannah Westmoreland is not a woman who lives by the rules of society, but by the rules of her heart. It is only appropriate that her mate for life would be a man as sharply different as well. Like the first two books of the series, the tale is by Hannah's mother's journal as she documents the months of her husband's journal, and by his thoughts as he struggles to return to the woman who waits. Each story Westmoreland's story in this series, in their very individual way, detail a love beyond all passion and all reason, but Hannah's story becomes something even more - A FORCE OF NATURE. Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-06-18
1505608:US	49693975	R2E6ZMSO8LOQHM	0970486111	931911640	Sillwee Wobbert : The Happy Heart Kid (The Happy Heart Kid, 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Sillwee Wobbert looks forward to playing soccer with his friends. But one friend, nicknamed Wheezing Will, hasn't always been able to participate in soccer. Will's asthma made it hard to run and play, and he often has to stop for his medication. But when uses his medication properly, he can do anything his friends can do - and more!<br />Children with asthma often don't understand what is happing to them when illness prevents their participating normal activities with their friends. Sillwee Wobbert and Wheezing Will forge understanding asthma in this marvelous story perfect for coloring and sharing. While doctors offices, schools and libraries will find this book to marvelously informative as well as entertaining, parents will find it even more useful as it opens communication about an illness that can leaving children feeling frightened and isolated. Perfect for bedtime reading or afternoon coloring, SILLWEE WOBBERT AND WHEEZING WILL IN THE BIG GAME earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-06-18
1506001:US	49693975	R1FKSPK44L1MVG	1929613539	427572155	Walk in Moonlight	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Stunning! Very highly recommended	A train strike only begins the inconveniences that await Dixie LePage when she leaves South Carolina behind to travel to England. The last of her family line, she knows very little of the old aunts who left her their house and wealth. Dixie could have taken her lawyer's advice and let him sell the house and send her the proceeds. But her disillusioning personal life leads to the impetuous decision to see the house herself. Her grandmother rarely spoke of them except to speak of her sisters as witches. Soon Dixie comes to understand she meant the term literally. <br />Sebastian Caughleigh, her great-aunt's lawyer, plans to make Dixie's stay so uncomfortable that she will immediately depart for home. When she initially arrives, the house is unfit to inhabit, so Dixie stays in a nearby bed and breakfast. Although the electricity is turned off, she spies light in the upstairs windows, and finds a dropped flashlight after she pursues the intruder. The break in only makes her determined to move into the house and change the locks to protect her unexpectedly desirable new home. Her actions enrage Sebastian who leads the local witch's coven in a quest to rid the town of her presence and that of her friend, Christopher Marlowe.<br />Author Rosemary Laurey pens a marvelous paranormal read in WALK IN MOONLIGHT. Dixie initially refuses to believe witches or vampires, until events force her to accept the impossible. Yet her fierce loyalty and strength of character allow quick acceptance when she does what must be done to save Christopher's life. Christopher is a likewise compelling character, with a troupe of friends that readers will love. Indeed, each character is masterfully portrayed with powerful passion and an unexpected dash of humor. The combination of witches, vampires and a mystery result in an intriguing novel that readers will find impossible to put down. Fans will be pleased to know the sequel, RAPTURE IN MOONLIGHT is now available from the publisher. Very highly recommended.	2002-06-18
1506865:US	49693975	R2DVOVJR4A2VER	0595222064	683132717	My Brother Kevin has Autism	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Light verse that contains a wealth of meaning	From anyone's perspective, living with autism can be quite a challenge. Simple chores become a test of endurance for the autistic child who cannot endear the sound of a vacuum cleaner. A trip across town on a new street becomes a test of endurance for the autistic child who clings to routine for salivation from a chaotic world. Parents and siblings who live with the autistic child likewise face these challenges, often baffled at the autistic's child's reactions to a world they perceive as ordinary. <br />Author Richard Carlson lends his talented pen to a book of verse for young people in MY BROTHER KEVIN HAS AUTISM, capturing these challenges in a straightforward yet lovingly gentle tone that readers of all ages will appreciate. Autistic younger brother Kevin adds his illustrations, proving with each one the beauty of his gifts and the lessons he can teach us all. A must read for anyone who knows someone with autism or simply seeks understanding. Highly recommended.	2002-06-17
1507441:US	49693975	RNWYK4C3S00SV	0373710658	810438682	She's My Mom: Count on a Cop (Harlequin Superromance No. 1065)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Remarkable! Very highly recommended	Dinner with friends at a hotel-casino in Los Vegas results in a stunning revelation for thirteen-year-old Brett Corbitt. In a chance encounter on the stairs as he descends to the lobby, Brett sights the mother he believes to be deceased. It is her face, and her body and her voice, but there is no flicker of recognition. When Brett arrives home, he persuades his father, Detective Grady Corbitt, to return to the hotel with him. Even though the woman calls herself Martha Walters, Brett and Grady know the woman's true identity as Susan Corbitt. What they do not know is why she did not recognize her son or why she disappeared.<br />Six months ago Susan was found wandering a nearby Indian reservation. She suffers from amnesia, recovering first in the home of residents and later at a women's shelter. When the hotel-casino opened, she got a job as a maid. Fearing why she was lost in the desert and possible consequences if someone recognized her before she regained her memory, Susan changed her hair color and never went to the police. But when the sexy detective arrives at her apartment, it was chemistry. She cannot help feeling pleased to be married to him, even if she does not recognize Grady. She is likewise delighted with her son. But Susan will never be out of danger until they learn why a bomb was planted to kill, yet her body was dumped in the desert.<br />Author Rebecca Winters creates a convincing amnesia story with SHE'S MY MOM. The complications of memory loss provide strong conflict, yet are touchingly handled. As Susan falls in love all over again, she is painfully aware of the differences between now, and the woman Grady has been married to for seventeen years. And those differences are both profound and unforgettable, no matter how much that she and Grady want to deny their importance. Her son Brett likewise lends a poignant note in his eagerness to regain his mother. Grady's struggle in some ways is the most difficult as he struggles with self-honesty and reconciling a past that his wife cannot remember with the present. A remarkable and memorable tale, SHE'S MY MOM comes very highly recommended.	2002-06-16
1508064:US	49693975	R2RY77302XUUTQ	0373710666	418927099	Practice Makes Perfect: Serenity House (Harlequin Superromance No. 1066)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Sympathetic, heart-warming tale -- Very highly recommended	At seventeen, Paige Kendrick lost her parents and gave her baby up for adoption in the same day. Paige never saw the child, never asked its sex or health; instead, she raised her sister and went on to become a doctor. Now she works as a pediatrician charging high prices to those who can afford her skills; at once distancing herself from girls like the one she once was even as cares for children like the one she lost. <br />No other doctor has the skills or the compassion of Dr Paige Kendrick, and Ian is determined to sign her onto his program. He also quickly realizes he needs her in his life as much as he needs her skills for the inner-city girls. Unfortunately, Paige builds strong walls around her emotion and her past, refusing to share her heart or her history. But Ian is equally resolute to understand and love this elusive woman. <br />Author Kathryn Shay has a gift for boldly presenting challenging life situations that offer no easy solutions. This series, Serenity House, brings women together who once shared life in a group home for girls. PRACTICE MAKES PERFECT one again exhibits Shay's deep compassion for her flawed, yet marvelously portrayed characters. Loss has taught Paige a bitter lesson only love can cure. Conversely, Ian understands adoption from an entirely different perspective. But his take-charge personality proves equally attractive and abrasive, presenting him with his own challenges in building a relationship with Paige. The result is a sympathetic, heart-warming tale that presents families, adoptions, and love with beauty and sparkle. Paige's younger sister likewise is an interesting and unorthodox character, lending the story a marvelous subplot. Very highly recommended.	2002-06-16
1509619:US	49693975	R3G4H5JBTT39MH	1894869419	71178607	Echoes of Angels	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	A vengeful husband wielding a box cutter destroyed supermodel Julienne Hunter's career. Then six months ago Julienne overdosed on cocaine and almost died. Permanent heart damage resulted and another seizure could kill her. Now released from rehabilitation and broke, Julienne returns to the home of her early childhood and begins to unravel the legacies of her family.<br />Julienne's mother hated Grandmother Anlese. They never spoke again after Cassandra Blackthorne took her daughter Julienne and fled their family home. Yet the demons of Cassandra's mind still destroyed her and now threaten Julienne as well. Circumstances force Julienne to return to the family she does not remember and the man her mother despised, Morgan Saint-Evanston. <br />An immortal, Morgan only wishes to die, despite the consequences to earth if he does. Halloween approaches when alignment will occur between the world of mortals and the dimension of the Sclyd. If Morgan does not take up his legacy, Scyldian entities will once again walk the earth, sacrificing the human race to their dragon god in return for power. Without Morgan's knowledge, Grandmother Anlese binds him to Julienne to assure the possibility of the people of earth's survival. <br />Bound by blood and magic rite, Julienne and Morgan are powerful characters that will haunt the reader's memory. Julienne grows from self-centered supermodel to a woman of compassion and strength. Morgan is a powerful dark hero tortured by memories of the past and his own immortality. His determination to deny his legacy destroys his life's purpose just as surely as Julienne's own self-destructive lifestyle nearly destroyed her. Both are deeply wounded and self-tortured, determined to deny themselves forgiveness or redemption. Their binding becomes the only thread to salvation, and although Julienne embraces it, Morgan refuses.<br />Author Caitlyn McKenna has written a chilling, haunting tale of dark fantasy that binds its readers just as surely its hero and heroine are bound. The echoes of angels fallen from grace resonate in this powerfully rendered tale. Impossible to put down and even more impossible to forget, the echoes of this potent tale will remain with the reader long after the last page is turned. Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-06-14
1511449:US	49693975	R1CZQSU0B9NB2F	0515133094	130312466	Mulligan Stew (Irish Eyes Romance)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	In Reedville, Tennessee, Bridget Colleen Mulligan mourns the accidental death of her grandmother. Bridget is stunned to learn the tiny trailer they shared has been foreclosed upon due to Granny's gambling debts. She is even more shocked to learn the man she married seven years ago, who disappeared seventy-two hours later, did not abandon her. Instead, his accidental death so quickly after their elopement deprived his family of knowledge of his young bride. Only her eventual divorce papers lead them to contact Bridget, and then, perhaps, only because she bore Culley's son. Desperation for family and new beginning leads Bridget to accept the invitation to her husband's family farm on the west coast of Ireland.<br />Culley's mother and sister truly Bridget and her son Jacob, but brother Riley disbelieves her tale. Culley had been engaged to a woman in the local village, and Riley did not believe his brother would marry another. Nevertheless, Bridget's straightforwardness and blatant honesty, not to mention her country cooking, eventually begin to work their magic on him. Then he finds her in the abandoned family castle, abandoned a hundred years ago due to a curse. Riley has heard the whispers of the castle since his brother died, though he never puzzled out why Culley believed he could end the curse. Riley believes the story of his brother's bride to a con until he realizes she can hear the whispers, too. And then there are the erotic dreams that lower his defenses and leave him vulnerable to the woman's spell. <br />Deb Stover writes with a stunning beauty and wry wit that resonates beautifully throughout all of her novels, but never so profoundly as with MULLIGAN STEW. Like the stew for which it is named, MULLIGAN STEW offers something for everyone's taste in this artful blend of Irish contemporary romance, an ancient curse, a haunted castle, gothic overtones and the struggle to reconcile the past with the present. Characters are vividly realized from the heroine who will kick another woman in the shins for hurting her child's feelings, to the hero who cannot forget the dead brother he loved so deeply. Stover creates a poignant tale of loss, healing and recreation that will linger long after the last page is turned. Yet another Stover novel to add your keeper shelf, MULLIGAN STEW earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-06-12
1512198:US	49693975	R2VX97SKYLZRR3	0970362900	914972879	The Way of Doe	Books	5	1	1	N	N	�Memory is full of unexplored possibilities.�	THE WAY OF DOE: JOURNAL OF A NEAR-HOLYWOMAN establishes just the right balance between levity and the profound to be truly effective. Amidst Cheetohs, MTV, and new age bookstores, author Mesa Doe comes to realize that she craves wide-open spaces with no people in them. Open space makes room to confront the self. So she packs her green army pack and heads away from The Land of Obnoxia and to the desert to seek the reason for her existence.<br />It does not take long for Mesa to feel like she is carrying a house on her back. Soon she unloads all but her water and notebooks, symbolically leaving behind the trappings of her old self. As rising temperatures exact their price, Mesa reflects upon her gift for visions. Soon she acknowledges the difficulty of distracting herself from her life and how much she hates it - the first step toward healing. As memory weaves reminders of childhood abuse, Mesa recalls her perceptions as a child when she had stars inside, and how they would fall from her fingers. Soon Mesa meets Mega, her higher self, and begins the lessons that will transform her life. <br />Poetic imagery juxtaposes self-revelation in a journal that most seekers will relate to in THE WAY OF THE DOE. Mesa confronts the pain of the past in the searing heat of the desert, learning to connect to her higher self and the lessons enlightenment brings. As love replaces self-hate, Mesa reaches understanding that do not end the journey, but simply marks a path to the next step. An intensely personal account, yet remarkably universal, THE WAY OF THE DOE is a marvelous read, coming very highly recommended.	2002-06-12
1513357:US	49693975	R36XJ9XK5EL58V	0373764448	286918665	The Bachelor Takes A Wife  (Texas Cattleman's Club:  The Last) (Harlequin Desire)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Passionate reminders of the past -- Highly recommended	Texas millionaire Keith Owens remains the last bachelor in the Texas Cattleman's Club. All five men had all been bachelors five months ago until each discovered the power of love. Keith scoffs at other's taunts that he is next, but does not deny that he has placed himself on a collision course with his old flame, Andrea O'Rourke. Eighteen years, earning millions in the computer business, and a divorce did not erased his fascination with Andrea.<br />Andrea feels incredible frustration that she must accept a large donation from Keith on behalf of New Hope Charity for battered women. Her carefully cultivated life, preference for quiet entertainment, and cool demeanor conceal a heart that never recovered from Keith's rejection. Eighteen years ago she expected a marriage proposal, and received a business proposal instead. Now she finds that her elegant demeanor is not enough to protect her from Keith's passion and her own desire.<br />Author Jackie Merritt breaks with the age convention I have come to associate with the Desire product line by giving both hero and heroine thirty-eight mature years. I find such a choice refreshing, and suspect such a choice greatly broadens the appeal to her mature audience. One's perspective of the past radically changes as do priorities as the age of forty approaches, and Merritt broaches those changes well, forcing her characters to both confront the past and reconcile it with a future neither feels certain of. They also realize that approaching forty does not give all the answers when love and desire become involved. These strong characterizations combined with an unexpected conclusion to the Texas Cattleman's Club make THE BACHELOR TAKES A WIFE come highly recommended.	2002-06-11
1515647:US	49693975	R3318I29W7G1SK	0373764421	435663225	And The Winner Gets...Married!  (Dynasties:  The Connellys) (Harlequin Desire)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Wonderful character driven romance -- Highly recommended	When his brother Daniel assumed the throne of Altaria, Justin Connelly does the work of two men as vice president of marketing. He has weathered an attempt on his brother's life, a crash of the corporation's computers and now a fiasco with the firm's marketing campaign. Worse, his sister plans to put him the auction block, for charity of course. Shockingly, his executive assistant Kimberly Lindgren wins the bid for a romantic getaway with him.<br />Kim carefully conceals her feelings for her boss with a proper business demeanor, her femininity with appropriate business attire, and her long sensuous hair with a twist. When Justin turns the assignment of putting together a date for the charity auction, she simply designs a date that would fulfill her own hidden fantasies regarding Justin. But when she appears at the auction, Justin's sister demands that she accept a cashier's check and bid for Justin herself.<br />Once again author Metsy Hingle demonstrates her flair for writing romance combined with stunning sensuality in AND THE WINNER GETS...MARRIED. Despite the threat of sexual harassment lawsuits, author Hingle successfully pens an office romance that is at once convincing yet touching. Heroine Kim struggles with the usual virginal/class issues, coming vibrantly alive with Hingle's deft pen. Hero Justine's unsuccessfully attempts to resist the lure of love because of the forbidden surroundings, proving that love can overcomes common sense. This character driven romance provides wonderful entertainment, coming highly recommended.	2002-06-08
1515666:US	49693975	R3S73ZFXWDL2Y0	0373710623	29831492	Slow Dance with a Cowboy (Harlequin Superromance No. 1062)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Powerful treatment of mental illness -- Very highly recommen	Schoolteacher Nicole Weston profoundly understands what it means to be ostracized by everyone around her. Her mother's mental illness resulted in tremendous instability during her childhood. Consequently, Nicole is a lioness when it comes to protecting those in her care for a program for teens at risk, providing the last chance they have for graduating from high school. When her classroom is vandalized, her troubled students are the first to be suspected of the crime. She just as fiercely rises to the cause of the underdogs in her elementary classes. Then one of Nicole's students most in need turns out to be the son of her old flame.<br />Ex-cowboy Cameron Colter has given up a lot of dreams over the years, leaving behind his family's ranch to establish his own construction company. Anger at his brothers has separated him from his family, but now he has new family to care for when his son sudden comes to live with him. Cam intends to form a strong working relationship with Michael's teacher in hopes of calming behavioral issues. Then the substitute for the remained of the year turns out to be the woman he wanted to marry ten years ago. He never understood why Nicole ended their relationship, and it does not take long in her company for him to long to rekindle old flames. <br />Author Linda Style boldly incorporates the theme of mental illness in SLOW DANCE WITH A COWBOY. My own mother was diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia twenty years ago, and I cannot help but be impressed with Style's enactment of the nightmare such a diagnosis brings. Nicole faces issues regarding long term care of her mentally ill parent, including the financial ramifications as well as the questioning of her own mental health and that of her future children. Only a child when her mother was hospitalized, Nicole learned to accept the necessary changes to her own life that schizophrenia brings about regarding one's hopes and dreams. As any person would, Nicole once longed to hide her mother'sillness, desperately wanting to be normal instead of being ostracized because of her mother. Cam's response to Nicole's mother is marvelous, and he demonstrates tremendous forethought as he thinks through the ramifications of a relationship with Nicole, who is at risk for schizophrenia as well. Indeed, themes of honesty with self and others make this a story that touches the heart as well as providing food for reflection. Very highly recommended.	2002-06-08
1515748:US	49693975	R1P5JAVA0WZNGW	0373441436	140705918	Anything You Can Do...! / Anchor That Man! (Duets, 77)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Challenging competitions! Highly recommended	Duet authors Darlene Gardner and Dawn Atkins combine their gifted pens in creating these playfully delightful tales certain to entertain. ANYTHING YOU CAN DO...! and ANCHOR THAT MAN! prove that competition can bring out the best and worst in lovers! Both lighthearted tales star lead characters that fans will savor. <br />ANYTHING YOU CAN DO...! by Darlene Gardner: Lane Brooks thrives on competition. She might not know anything about cat shows, but she knows she wants the prestigious job with Splash! When she realizes the competition is her nemesis and sensual tease Clay Crawford, she resolves to maintain her completive edge regardless of the distractions. <br />Gardner's journalism background lends ANYTHING YOU CAN DO...! a convincing tone even as the outrageous antics of cats and characters alike keep the reader giggling. The deft weaving of humor, turmoil and competition give this tale a delicious spice that readers will thoroughly enjoy. Further, Gardner resolves this competitive dilemma with startling flair. <br />ANCHOR THAT MAN! by Dawn Atkins: Only two weeks after landing her dream job as hostess to Making it to Marriage...with Renata Rose, the petals fall from the blossom when Renata becomes disillusioned with marriage. Her caustic tone threatens her job until co-host Hawk Hunter arrives to help Renata rediscover her \\"flair.\\" Clashes on screen and clashes off screen make for dynamic interaction.<br />Dawn Atkins creates a tale filled with mixed emotions and sharply contrasting characters. The harder Renata tries to control her show, her emotions and her attraction, the more Hawk keeps throwing her off kilter. His distractions, romantic nature, and foolish male mistakes keep the laughs coming. <br />Powerful women who aren't afraid to go after what they want make this Duets selection absolutely memorable. Forgoing the classic comedy of error plots, these daring authors thrust their heroines in challenging competitions guaranteed to keep the pages turning. Highly recommended.	2002-06-08
1515781:US	49693975	R2E81C49DC7IL9	0373710631	267184985	A Sheriff in Tennessee (Harlequin Superromance No. 1063)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Looks aren't everything! Very highly recommended	Model Isabelle Ash intends to make a career change. Rather than showing off thong bathing suits in thirty-degree weather, she is to become an actress. A new series set in a small town has approached her for the part of the lead - a lady sheriff. So Isabelle sets off for Pleasant Ridge, Tennessee to learn first hand what it takes to be a small town sheriff.<br />Sheriff Gabriel Klein is skeptical of a beautiful actress learning from him, but the mayor signs his paycheck and insists Gabe teach her. Gabe has many women friends, but with his homely looks they all seem to prefer to be pals rather than romantic partners. So he never considers that fact that Isabelle might sincerely be interested, or that his attitudes toward her might portray a very inaccurate stereotype. <br />Author Lori Handeland has a gift for combining an amusing storyline with complex characterizations, demonstrated once again in A SHERIFF IN TENNESSEE. Gabriel and Isabelle fall neatly into the stereotype traps regarding looks -- as polar opposites. Gabriel sends mixed signals because of his own poor self-esteem, little realizing just how sexy Isabelle finds him. Isabelle is accustomed to being judged by looks and resents it, so her interest is peaked when Gabriel obviously overlooks her bust size, yet grows aggravated when he still does not pay enough attention to her brain. Such an amusing conundrum does not necessarily dictate a \\"fluffy\\" read when circumstances allow both to prove their strengths in a twisting plot that will keep the pages turning. A SHERIFF IN TENNESSEE comes very highly recommended.	2002-06-08
1515826:US	49693975	R8E6YZQSSZGGB	0373710674	866486354	The Wildcatter	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A clash of past and present -- Highly recommended	Eleven years ago wildcatter Miguel Heydt comes to the Suntop ranch hoping to strike it rich. While he finds indications of black gold, he also finds something else of tremendous value. The rancher's glorious daughter Risa transforms his world even as he tells himself a woman of wealth and privilege could never want a poor half-breed like himself. Then her father offers a deal he cannot resist; he has only to marry Risa and father a son to achieve all of his dreams at once.<br />Risa brings home a totally inappropriate fiancé, at least in her father's eyes. Ben has no intention of allowing the ranch he has built to fall into the hands of a scheming lawyer who sees his fortune in dividing and selling the ranch off someday as little \\"ranchettes.\\" So he takes a risk on the penniless ranch hand who hunts oil by night, in hopes of sparing his daughter heartache. But when Risa learns of her father and husband's agreement, she disappears without a trace, gets an annulment, and marries her former fiancé. <br />The past and present collide when Miguel and Risa arrive at Suntop at the same time, eleven years later. Secrets and betrayals of the past threaten to destroy their relationship again, before it is even reborn, lending THE WILDCATTER intense conflict. Author Peggy Nicholson skillfully balances the timeframes of past and present to create a richly developed story. As secrets come to light, both Risa and Miguel are forced to undergo tremendous growth and change. These beautifully developed characters and well-paced plot provide delightful reading that comes highly recommended.	2002-06-08
1515931:US	49693975	R3C8XKI7RTV417	037371064X	473485384	Operation, Katie: The Special Agents (Harlequin Superromance No. 1064)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	I couldn't put it down! Very highly recommended	For the last ten years, Zach Forrester has excelled at training, worked high profile cases, and faced impossible odds to track and capture dangerous men who make headline news. Now one three year old moppet brings him to his knees with a challenge that exceeds any other: Operation Katie. Now he must learn to detangle fine baby hair, make peanut butter sandwiches with the crust removed, and endear lunch in froufrou restaurants filled with lace and dollhouses. Moreover, he must keep her safe from the man who wants his tiny niece dead. So he takes her to Fossil Hill, Colorado to heal and to find safety a town that once rejected him.<br />Widow Dana Hathaway raises two children, maintains the Rocking H Ranch and a thriving veterinarian practice. Fifteen years do not weaken the shock of seeing her high school sweet heart again. The years have only honed his dangerous, unpredictable edge. So many times she relived the magic of their Senior Prom and the disillusion of his disappearance the next day without a word of explanation. She wants to maintain her distance to protect her heart. But the contrast of the powerful, protective male and the fragile child touches her profoundly. Worse, he ignites the memory of passion, of burning need. But Zach knows that his past working undercover has made it impossible to give the honesty and commitment necessary for a relationship. Too bad his heart does not believe his head.<br />Intrigue keeps the plot moving and interest piqued, but the characterizations are what make OPERATION: KATIE truly sparkle. Roxanne Rustand has a gift for capturing the essence of relationships in all their complexity and charm. Zach bears scars both externally and internally that make him a flawed, extraordinary hero. Dana never backs down from her independence, yet can act with courage and passion when circumstance demands. Secondary characters are equally vivid, especially young Katie who demonstrates the behavior to be expected from such horrific circumstances, yet reveals her own appeal and intensity. I absolutely couldn't put OPERATION: KATIE down. Very highly recommended.	2002-06-08
1515992:US	49693975	R278N5TM336HPZ	0312878877	370273649	Fire Logic	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Intense -- Highly recommended	Generations of people in Shaftal lived together in a balance of the elements Earth, Air, Water and Fire. Then the ruling earth witch dies without choosing a successor. Now Shaftal's ruling house lies scattered and destroyed by the invading Sainnite, as former refugees arm themselves and take over. A once peaceful land becomes a war zone complete with gristly acts of war and ghastly consequences.<br />The people of fire also attempt to defend against the invading Sainnites, but a surprise attack decimates their town. Despite their retaliatory guerilla warfare, the remaining people of fire die picking off invaders, leaving only one survivor. Cast into a dungeon and left to die, Zanja lies paralyzed until a raven and a healer arrive. Unfortunately, although Karis is a gifted healer she is also addicting \\"smoke\\". Now Zanja and Karis must combine efforts with Emil, a Shaftali Paladine, to overcome evil forces intent upon destruction.<br />Author Laurie J. Marks pens an enthralling fantasy novel FIRE LOGIC. More than just an epic, FIRE LOGIC presents extraordinary characterizations that portray a world of magic, violence, wonder and awe. Marks keeps the story crisp and intense, building mood and weaving from it an eerie tale of magic used and misused, culminating in vigorous battles both military and magical. Highly recommended.	2002-06-08
1516001:US	49693975	R2LQM6GT8FPDGL	0373790473	477884130	Hot on Her Tail (Harlequin Blaze, No 43)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Bail, handcuffs and tattoos -- Highly recommended	Bounty hunter Austin Taggart recognizes trouble in the breathtaking photo of his skip. Indeed, his instinct warns him against taking this case, but his sister's need for tuition money motivates him to accept anyway. Francesca \\"Maxie\\" Maxwell ostensibly embezzled a million dollars from the bank where she was a manager. All he has to do is pick her up, bring her back to Sedona and collect his paycheck. With his tracking skills, the job should only take a day or two. As soon as he sees the delicate pixie in person, Austin knows his instincts had been right. His inconvenient hormones threaten his flawless record for bringing in skip traces. No matter how many times she escapes or how attractive he finds her, Austin remains hot on her tail.<br />Maxie's ability to handle the raucous customers at the Lucky Star proves her resourcefulness, yet the reader has to wonder at her reasons for repeatedly returning to the same place knowing Austin will follow. Her own upscale bar called Firecrackers that she intends to partner with her sister sharply contrasts the motorcycle bar, yet Maxie delights in its unusual patrons with their hearts of gold. She intends to lay low just long enough for a computer guru/friend to prove her innocence or for the liquor license for Firecrackers to go through. After all, her sister provided financial backing for the club, and Maxie intends to make her investment profitable to pay back for all the times her sister has stood by her. <br />Author Karen Anders brings a gift for vividly realizing a fun story in HOT ON HER TAIL. Memorable characters and naughty handcuffs lend the novel breathtaking intensity. Austin's ethnic background and devotion to family gives him strong motivation and sensual appeal. Indeed, his dangerous, lethal aura makes him every woman's fantasy. Maxie's determination and resourcefulness likewise makes her incredibly appealing. Secondary characters are also fascinating. Star Dupree, bartended and owner of the Lucky Star where Maxie waitress proves herself both a loyal friend and a formidable woman. Indeed, the former motorcycle momma's bar provides an unusual focal point where Maxie repeatedly returns. Further, the moral and ethical dilemmas that Maxie and Austin face as they both try to honor their family responsibilities gives the novel strong motivation. HOT ON HER TAIL comes highly recommended.	2002-06-08
1516099:US	49693975	R1H92TR368G7HC	0373259840	253321800	What's Your Pleasure?: Heat	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Sizzling! Very highly recommended	Her sister's success as a singing sensation and the death of her mother taught Devon Michaels how to logically compartmentalize her life. While her imagination found refuge in writing cozy mysteries, Devon's personal life remained on hold. Now success with writing mysteries leads to big bucks and an opportunity to break out of the mystery midlist into the big time of bestsellers. Unfortunately, her paperback arthritic heroine must retire in favor of a hardback sexy, savvy heroine in an erotic thriller. Devon's love life has scarcely prepared her for sensuous writing, and Penthouse Forum and classic erotica do not sufficiently inspire.<br />In desperation, Devon propositions the man of her fantasies, detective Jake Tanner, who teaches a Community Police Academy class. He is just the man to inspire a pen to something compelling, fresh, and steamy. Even better, her book provides the perfect motivation to pursue the man of her hidden desires. Her logic decision quickly becomes far more volatile than she bargains for, however, as Devon spends more time with Jake. Always the careful plotter, Devon is stunned to realize that her no-strings attached intentions do not exactly pan out quite the way she has planned. <br />Once again Julie Elizabeth Leto turns up the heat in the fantasy inspiring WHAT'S YOUR PLEASURE. While the general plotline has been used to good effect previously by other authors, Leto puts a spin on it that brands it uniquely her own. Devon brings the maturity of a thirty something viewpoint and innocence of a woman who has ignored her sexuality for much to long. Readers may recognize Jake from the Blaze sensation, JUST WATCH ME... but he trades his taciturn approach for one far more daring. Secondary characters also enliven this delightful romantic romp. Devon's best friend and critique partner knows how to speak her mind while turning up the heat. Very highly recommended.	2002-06-08
1516370:US	49693975	R1PIALDH4FMHKX	0373441444	744964630	Heaven Scent / Shotgun Nanny	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Terrific fun! Highly recommended	Duets combine with two tales of rather unorthodox nannies who never intended a career in childcare. Outrageous hilarity and scent-sational fun prove that these authors aren't just clowning around. Congratulations to authors Jacqueline Diamond and Nancy Warren for earning the first WordWeaving Award for Excellence for a Duet!<br />HEAVEN SCENT by Jacqueline Diamond: Assistant psychology professor Nancy Verano finds herself without a job for the summer, so her sister convinces her to trade identities. Before her sister landed her big break on a sitcom, she had accepted a position advertised on the Internet for a nanny. Too bad Nancy dislikes domesticity. Of course, the very name of the nearest town suggests trouble: Skunk Crossing. <br />Something stinks in Skunk Crossing, but Diamond's tale comes up smelling like roses. Vegetarianism, a desire for Vienna sausages, and teens give this heroine a unique challenge that will keep the laughs coming. Max's attitude toward psychologist provides strong motivation for secret keeping, which inevitably leads to trouble. A delightful read!<br />SHOTGUN NANNY by Nancy Warren: When Annie Porter meets super serious ex-Mountie Mark Saunders under less than auspicious circumstances, neither dreams that they would soon cross paths again. Mark does not recognize Annie under her grease paint when arrives at as niece's birthday party as a clown, but her remarkable success with his niece leads to an irresistible offer of employment. Inevitably, Annie's free spirit collides with Mark's staid approach, as her very presence brings laughter and disaster in equal measure. <br />Nancy Warren's clowning around results in hysterical hilarity in SHOTGUN NANNY. Annie's free spirit and engaging personality draws out her reticent charge and the circumspect uncle in equal measure. Squirrels, dogs, and out of control humor will keep readers laughing until the last page. Indeed, Warren's effortlessly charming prose proves her mastery of romantic comedy.	2002-06-08
1517718:US	49693975	R14AMGZ4TSFZMS	1401033148	448346249	Inexquisite Eye	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Compelling -- Highly recommended	Lawyer Elissa Laughlin finds herself incredibly dissatisfied. She left her family and job in New York two years ago to seek a better life. But even with her a garden apartment in New Haven and the job of her dreams do not satisfy her driving needs; needs she cannot even seem to define. A romance begun with much angst also does not fulfill her life. Soon Elissa's refusal to comprise her moral ground will lead to powerful consequences.<br />Tired of compromises that force her to bend too much, Elissa pursues her own path. She heroically attempts to live up to her view of personal integrity despite its devastating effect on her career. Even when others offer an escape from the consequences of her choices, Elissa maintains her course, embracing the consequences of her actions as her due. Her perverse determination to maintain her impossibly high moral road proves both entertaining, at times astonishing, and leads to a marvelous resolution. <br />D.B. Smith's debut novel THE INEXQUISITE EYE will appeal to readers with a love of traditional literature. Rather than the popular treatment of light and shadows favored by many authors of our times, Smith's voice echoes the angst and reflection of novelists like James Joyce in A PORTRAIT OF AN ARTIST AS A YOUNG MAN. Like Joyce, Smith focuses on the decisions of youth that determine the entire course of one's life. But instead of the interior monologues of much of Joyce's work, Smith uses conversation to reveal the intricacies and reflections of modern life, yet achieves the same effect of observation of life as his literary predecessor. Indeed, Smith's poetic narrative lulls the reader even as it jars the reader's perceptions of right and wrong. While THE INEXQUISITE EYE will not appeal to all audiences, readers who enjoy profound reflection and compelling characterizations combined with striking prose will find the experience of reading this novel richly satisfying. Highly recommended.	2002-06-06
1517955:US	49693975	R1PRXW8IH8JBG	0765340372	316511352	For Love or Country	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A rising star - Very highly recommended	Tensions build in pre-Revolutionary Boston as Tory soldiers and loyalist citizens attempt to maintain English control. Quincy Stanton, recently returned from seven months abroad, allows himself to be recruited by his uncle to spy for the Sons of Liberty. He needs to gain concrete proof of the British's plans of suppression. They use Quincy's trip abroad as a cover; he purportedly returns a staunch Loyalist. Then he can hobnob with British officers and other Loyalists. So Quincy assumes the role of a pompous, arrogant, totally useless Lord like his father. After all, the unacknowledged bastard son of an English Lord has learned first hand how obnoxious Lords conduct themselves.<br />Virginia Munro arrives in Boston from South Carolina with her sister to accept the hospitality of her widowed Aunt Mary while she fulfills a period of mourning. Mary's late husband had been a loyalist and his connections allow her into the inner sanctums of Loyalist homes. She too seeks proof that the British have not arrived to protect but to suppress. When her nieces learn her intentions, they likewise vow to aid the American cause. Such determination sets Virginia on a collision course with Quincy, whose hidden motivations seem to belie his foppish exterior. Indeed, nothing about Quincy quite makes sense, and while her heart believes his loyalties to be other than what he claims, her mind cannot ignore her suspicions. Further, danger threatens all who spy whatever their loyalties. <br />FOR LOVE OR COUNTRY by Kerrelyn Sparks has it all: gadgets, spies and love. Set during the tumultuous years in Boston preceding the Revolutionary War, Sparks craftily utilizes historical events, occasionally with a twist of facts, to great effect. Quincy's undercover role as fop complete with wigs and heels strikes the perfect comedic balance against his dangerous motivations to protect his country. Virginia's determination to spy despite possible danger to herself proves her willfulness and loyalty inequal measure. Together they make a dynamic couple that keeps the pages turning. Indeed, their outrageous antics, delightful subterfuge, and outright hilarity make Sparks' debut novel sparkle. Remember Kerrelyn Sparks for she promises to be one of historical romances' rising stars. FOR LOVE OR COUNTRY is very highly recommended.	2002-06-06
1518152:US	49693975	R3NAA6TLYZ1TF4	0821773380	40287110	Falling Home	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Sterling debut novel! Very highly recommended	The three o'clock in the morning call stuns Cassie Madison when her sister simply states, \\"It's Daddy. He's dying.\\" The old judge lives long enough for Cassie to leave New York and drive to her hometown of Walton, Georgia. Cassie had sworn she would never set foot in Walton again, and only her father's dying wish lures her back. Indeed, Cassie brings with her fifteen years of buried resentment and heartache. She finds healing, acceptance and love.<br />It does not take long for the south to reestablish its influence. Cassie finds her speech, her clothes and her attitudes radically influenced by the people and place of her roots. But she does not yield easily. Fifteen years is a long time to resent a sister for eloping with her fiancé. Soon, however, Cassie comes to realize her absence denied her not only the sister she had practically raised, but also her nieces and nephew, a town that loves her, and her heritage. Her return also opens the door to Doctor Sam Parker, a man who recalls her vividly even if her memories are centered elsewhere. <br />With great flair, author Karen White captures the nuances that characterize the south in FALLING HOME. Ice tea, grits, magnolia trees and fried okra create an atmosphere of healing for Cassie, despite her old resentments. As she moves beyond her guilt, Cassie discovers the family she had rejected, the possibilities of love, and the pain of grief. Cassie might have thought she had established a new life in New York, but she soon comes to learn running away only buries the old wounds. Sexy doctor Sam has already learns the same lessons with which Cassie struggles, imparting wisdom and patience in equal measure. But Cassie's determination to return to New York, her fiancé, and her carefully controlled life will eventually force a choice in more than just lifestyle. Southern colloquialisms and attitudes and are used to great effect, creating a novel peachy as the state in which it is set. FALLING HOME comes very highly recommended.	2002-06-06
1518295:US	49693975	R15MUOP3DIHZMH	0373259816	610577744	Double Exposure (Cooper's Corner)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Sensual, perky and sassy - Very highly recommended	Stuntman Hugh Armstrong pursues his profession for the adrenaline rush. Leaping from flaming buildings, however, comes much easier than risking his heart. Consequently, when he and Kate Cooper just seem to click, Hugh welcomes the opportunity to turn a wedding into his own little weekend tryst. Unfortunately, he does not suspect that Kate's sensuous seduction is partially based on a case of mistaken identity.<br />With her twin rapped up in last minute wedding preparations, Kate promises to pick up best man Harry Armstrong on the airport. Her gift for photography makes picking him out of the crowd easily, but someone should have told her that he has an identical brother. It is not until after the fireworks lead them to bind blowing pleasure that Kate learns the man in her bed is not Harry. Her outrage is only matched by her mortification. Worse, she is not the type for a weekend fling and a Sunday afternoon goodbye. <br />Author Vicki Lewis Thompson delivers an outrageous read in DOUBLE EXPOSURE. Mixed identities, coincidence and heat lend DOUBLE EXPOSURE the plot twists that keep Thompson's fans begging for more. With a daring heroine seeking the hero of her dreams, and a hero who does not exactly meet her expectations, DOUBLE EXPOSURE reveals a memorable couple caught in the throws of passion. Further, Kate's gift for making every second count, her need for excitement, and passion for living make her an intriguing heroine. Hugh's persistence in running from a painful past to protect his heart builds deep sympathy in the reader. With a delightful cast of secondary characters, including a charmingly daring child who almost steals the scene, DOUBLE EXPOSURE satisfies. Very highly recommended.	2002-06-06
1518356:US	49693975	R116HMF3TOWYLN	0966619927	147024803	Jerome's Jam (Jazz the DreamDogT)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great read! Very highly recommended	Watching mommy's tummy growing large, Jerome declares that he does not want a brother or sister. He thinks that three is the perfect number for a family. Mommy emphasized the special place in her heart for Jerome, but her reassurances are not enough. Nevertheless, when the baby comes home, Jerome comes to understand just how important he is as the big brother. With the help of Jazz, the beautiful dream dog with the rainbow colored tail, Jerome discovers that with a new baby just means that more love gets added to his family.<br />Young children facing the addition of a new sibling will delight in JEROME'S JAM. Author Rainey captures the essence of the varied and conflicting emotions brought about by the expectation of a new baby in the home. Rhyme and beautiful illustrations bring the message of love alive with a rhythm perfect for reading aloud again and again. Complete with a list of helpful tips for parents, JEROME'S JAM is not only entertaining to children, but a valuable resource to parents. Very highly recommended.	2002-06-06
1518471:US	49693975	R2US4VPXWAOWID	1928973515	584624584	Breaking the Chain	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Visions and Voodoo -- Highly recommended	BLUE MOON introduced Mary Corbett and her one time love interest, Jack Windom. BLUE MOON combined a Louisiana plantation home, difficult circumstances, an interesting family including a difficult matriarch, strong deja vu, and the protection of an elderly Voodoo in a compelling mix. BREAKING THE CHAIN brings the same marvelous characters together again at the Blue Moon Inn, the restored plantation house that now is now a bed and breakfast.<br />Now married, Mary and Jack support their bed and breakfast with additional work as real estate surveyors working for different companies. Jack begins having nightmares of a shooting. Shortly thereafter, they discover another tunnel beneath the inn. Once a part of the underground railroad to transport slaves north, the tunnel must be filled in rather than risk collapse. <br />In the mean time, Mary's cantankerous Aunt Elizavon, who owns half shares in the bed and breakfast, comes to visit. As manipulative and irritating as ever, Aunt Elizavon delights in provoking and berating those around her. The former housekeepers of the plantation also come to visit, and Sadie, who is also a Voodoo priestess, warns of impending danger from \\"the brown man.\\" Further, Mary's gift for finding missing objects surfaces, throwing her into quite a quandary. <br />Readers who have not read BLUE MOON will find that BREAKING THE CHAIN reads well as a standalone. Intriguing characterizations and a fast paced plot sweep the reader into a spirited read. Author CD Ledbetter masterfully builds the tension with layers of intrigue that lead to a surprising conclusion. This richly textured paranormal suspense comes highly recommended.	2002-06-06
1518548:US	49693975	R3IVTZJJ562H6O	0373272286	944002566	Wedding at White Sands (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1158)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Enthralling! Very highly recommended	When the scruffy young man shows up in her office, Private Investigator Allie St. James finds herself immediately enamored. Allie has a soft spot for causes, usually focusing investigations that track deadbeat dads. Robbie's snaggle toothed grin quickly convinces Allie to lend her professional investigative skills to his cause. Robbie believes someone is trying to kill his dad. Allie's visit to Jake Larson to investigate his son's concerns leads to a tie between Jake and the owner of White Sands resort, Neil Phillips, who happens to be at the top of Allie's hit list for deadbeat dads. Consequently, she follows Jake to the resort.<br />Jake had been an Air Force investigator until a drunk driver killed his wife and left him physically and emotionally damaged. Currently he works with the police to bring down the crooked owner of White Sands Resort, the same man who also tried to scam his parents. When Jake lands in Miami only to find Allie sitting on the hood of his rental car, he knows he is in trouble. Allie's creative manipulations result in their sharing a honeymoon suite and posing as a married couple trying to add spice back into their marriage. Despite his obvious physical desire for Allie, however, Jake holds back. He has never been an emotional man and does not believe himself capable of giving any woman the love she deserves. Yet he finds that it is impossible to win against anyone like Allie.<br />Author Catherine Mann creates an enthralling romance in WEDDING AT WHITE SAND. Her gift for characterization and drama will hold readers enthralled. Free spirited Allie balks at stricture. Jake thrives on quiet moments free of emotional entanglements. Allie is the essence of perpetual motion and Jake prefers peace. In fact, Jake resents the rush of awareness Allie inspires as she circumvents his careful control. The closer she comes emotionally, the farther he backs away, and yet he cannot walk away. Their conflict combines with the spice of danger, resulting in amultilayered plot that moves swiftly along with surprising twists that maintains the element of suspense. The fake renewal of wedding vows will strike a strong emotional cord with reader, especially with the recurrent ties throughout the remainder of the novel. A marvelous combination of suspense and romance, WEDDING AT WHITE SANDS comes very highly recommended.	2002-06-06
1518714:US	49693975	R3D9XGTOMFJ7ST	0373259824	870689687	Two to Tangle	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fun and sassy -- Very highly recommended	Ever since Chloe Weston started working for the family-owned department store, boss Troy Langtree frequently catches her eye. Although attractive, however, Troy does not initially seem to appreciate the joys of living. Then one night while working late on a window, with summer lighting in the midnight sky, Chloe sees Troy changing a flat in the rain. Suddenly the proper businessman becomes a pagan rain worshipper. With other hints of a wild streak lurking beneath that carefully polished exterior, Chloe cannot help being intrigued.<br />When people lined up five deep to admire her windows at the department store, Chloe is rewarded with an all expense paid trip to the South Florida Retailers & Merchandisers at a pricey Fort Lauderdale-area resort. In addition to furthering her career, the trip affords Chloe the opportunity to briefly escape the drudgery of school, work and supporting her family. She does not go seeking a fling, but when the man she believes to be Troy approaches her at the pool side, having admired her love of the elements, Chloe throws caution to the wind.<br />Trent might be an identical twin, but his approach to life is diametrically opposed to his brother's business life. Trent left the family fold to pursue his love of outdoors, and now owns a landscaping business. Three years ago Trent's money grubbing social climbing fiancée ditched him because he could no longer keep her in Mercedes convertibles. Subsequently, work has consumed his time and attention. Then he sees a delectable woman savoring the rain, and he cannot resist her allure. Neither Chloe nor Trent realize that their erotic encounter stems from a case of mistaken identity!<br />Through mistaken identity and the use of twins, author Leslie Kelly allows her characters the freedom to loosen their inhibitions and discover the pleasure of dancing the rain, walking on the beech, and the sensual touch of a new lover. The plot plays out skillfully, not belaboring the mistaken identity yet exploiting it to the fullest. In addition, characterizations sparkle. Chloe acknowledges her desire for paid bills and security, but depends upon her own abilities to provide. Her growth a character is phenomenal. Trent is every woman's erotic dream with the sensual description of his rain dance and joy in simple things. Further, readers intrigued by the bad-boy Troy will look forward to his story early in 2003. TWO TO TANGLE comes very highly recommended.	2002-06-06
1518723:US	49693975	RP8AMW993JNV	0821769340	467390206	Cold Blooded (A Bentz/Montoya Novel)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	A psychic, Olivia Benchet dreams about a priest who kills. Then she awakens to a horrid certainty that her dream was something more. Vivid details bear witness to an innocent woman's torture and death at the hands of a man wearing vestments, his face concealed by a black ski mask. Worse, she knows that the killer is aware of her presence and her identity. Recalling the headlines of the previous rash of killings, Olivia seeks out the detective instrumental in solving the bizarre killings.<br />Rick Bentz is skeptical of Olivia's claims until a burned house reveals its macabre secret. As Rick examines the site, he recalls Olivia's tale of a naked chained victim, a priest with a radio and sword, and the significance of the date. As further facts compel his belief in Olivia's story, Rick finds himself irresistibly drawn to this intriguing woman. Little does he suspect, however, the coming danger to the women in his life. Meanwhile, the Chosen One continues to pursue his mission to \\"rid the earth of the vile sinners on the day God had selected.\\"<br />Author Lisa Jackson demonstrates extraordinary flair for creating nail-biting romance in COLD BLOODED. Picking up where HOT BLOODED leaves off and including several favorite characters and the New Orleans setting, COLD BLOODED explores a methodical and cunning serial killer's plan for redeeming lost souls. There are no easy answers for Jackson's characters where anyone is suspect, and vows of silence protect the guilty. Crisp dialogue, a multilayer plot, and a carefully measured pace build suspense in this chilling read that earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-06-06
1518952:US	49693975	R225M94DX0495G	0843950226	329411937	A Rogue's Promise	Books	5	0	0	N	N	London 1816 - Very highly recommended	Miss Joanna Fenton boldly enters a tavern frequented by smugglers and dockworkers seeking MacDonald Archer. Her family faces financial ruin, and Joanna needs help to locate her brother and a Chinese artifact scheduled for public auction. Her responsible shoulders have born the burdens of her family since her scandalous season several years ago, and she intends to keep any further scandal at bay until her younger sister can be safely married. To her surprise, Mac's educated speech belies his surroundings. Soon Joanna finds herself shockingly attracted to this stranger who can be alternately charming or intolerable. <br />MacDonald Archer plans to trade the lucrative life of smuggling for the respectability of ordinary shipping. The money, the adventure and the danger no long hold the allure they once did, leaving Mac plagued with a nagging restlessness. Then he meets Joanna, and sees beyond the ordinary exterior that other's dismiss. Suddenly he is intrigued by this bodacious woman intent upon the salvation of her family. Although he has little tolerance for blue bloods, Mac is fascinated by the puzzle Joanna presents with her contrast between vulnerability and determination. Soon he finds himself traipsing through the underbelly of London in Joanna's company, seeking the life threatening answers to the disappearance of both her brother and the artifact. <br />Peggy Waide's historical novel A ROGUE'S PROMISE is one of the most fun and sizzling Regency romances I have had the pleasure to read. ROGUE'S PROMISE proves Waide's gift for creating strong characterizations. Joanna's drab exterior conceals a woman of passion and fire, fiercely determined to protect her family and equally bold in her growing love for Mac. Mac is fantasy material with his worldly ways and sensual touch. With a page-turning combination of romance, suspense, and danger, ROGUE'S PROMISE is impossible to put down. Indeed, if you only add only one Regency romance to your shelves this year, you willwant to make it A ROGUE'S PROMISE. Very highly recommended.	2002-06-06
1519924:US	49693975	R2Y6UZD79SHJGQ	0670030651	753464776	Testimony of an Irish Slave Girl	Books	4	34	34	N	N	A little know travesty -- Highly recommended	While readers share an awareness of the brutality of slavery, few realize that the slave trade of the seventeenth century included Irish men, women, and children who were transport to the cane fields of Barbados. Eventually, uprisings reached across cultures to unite blacks, Irish, and other races in a bid for freedom that was tragically quashed. Based on these historical events, author Kate mcCafferty's debut novel reveals this often forgotten bit of history, exploring a world of indentured servitude perpetrated by the British who kidnapped and enslaved Irish Catholics.<br />Peter Coote hauls Cot Quashey in for interrogation following the failure of an uprising that resulted in the death of all but this one surviving conspirator. Cot offers to relate the truths surrounding their rebellion in exchange for the freedom to relate her entire life history. As Peter records her story, he finds that he feels impatient and sympathetic in turns. He often exhorts Cot to get on with her tale; a sentiment the reader will likely echo at times.<br />Cot's almost forgotten memories of Ireland and family quickly give way to the horrors of kidnapping and the long voyage to Barbados, a land as beautiful as paradise, and deceptively dangerous. Initially bought by a kind master, Cot's maturing beauty eventually leaves her mistress feeling threatened. When she catches the eye of her master, Cot eventually betrays her fellow slaves' plan for freedom. Nevertheless, her master gambles Cot away to harsher existence where she learns of the brutalities of slavery that extend far beyond mere physical existence. <br />Author Kate McCafferty uses an unorthodox narrative style to relate her tale that some readers may find distracting. Cot orally relates her life history in a first person narrative. While such a style lends a sense of immediacy to the tone of the book, it also slows the pace, leaving readers as impatient as Peter. Nevertheless, McCaffrety captures the drama of this fictional heroine's life with rich nuance and historical accuracy. Even readers familiar with slavery tales will find Cot's story differs widely from traditional slavery narratives. Indeed, Cot's tale provides fascinating insight into this footnote of history, coming highly recommended.	2002-06-05
1521697:US	49693975	R2FK6KS79U736S	1591130344	357881353	The Remnant	Books	5	2	2	N	N	In the hands of madness -- Very highly recommended	FBI Agent Shari Rigel survived the Jonestown Massacre as a child. Now she brings that experience as she observes a similar cult. For two months she steals time to watch over Eden to methodically check each camera blind. Admittedly obsessed, Shari waits for the opportunity to stop another mass suicide. Compelled to prevent a reoccurrence of Jonestown or what she witnessed with the Branch Davideans at Waco, Shari intends to stop Father Will before the FBI descends on the compound to usher in another version of Armageddon.<br />Father Will, leader of the apocalyptic Christian sect, has built a fortress and a prison inside a mountain honeycombed with caves and tunnels. With the aid of computer technology, Father Will selects each new disciple carefully, transferring their wealth his own accounts as he brings them into the fold. He also uses advanced programs to monitor his adversaries, making him a powerful and dangerous enemy. With the mesmerizing grace of a madman, Father Will leads the Remnant to destruction, planning to begin first with the sacrifice of his own first-born son. <br />Author Georgia Flosi debuts the \\"Exit Counselor Series\\" with a gripping account of a mass suicide planned by the cult leader of THE REMNANT. Flosi's experience as an award-winning playwright lends this tale a fierce, convincing sense of drama as it enacts the dilemma faced by millions of people snared by cults today. Heroine Shari's chilling experience at Jonestown keeps the tension building as she relates that experience to the escalating dangers presented by Father Will. Secondary characters likewise present sympathetic and heart rendering contradictions, especially Maya who refuses to allow Father Will to wed her teen child, or to leave without her family. Father Will presents a dangerous brilliant manipulation of scripture in the midst of madness, preparing for an end of chillingly inevitable destruction. A work of burning hope in the midst of dark intent, THE REMNANT comes very highly recommended.	2002-06-03
1524278:US	49693975	R3OXOQY7YSZE1J	014019536X	990968702	Drawing Down the Moon: Witches, Druids, Goddess-Worshippers, and Other Pagans in America Today (Compass)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Required reading for many pagan paths	DRAWING DOWN THE MOON takes a historical view of Neo-Paganism and who these people are today. Author Margot Adler brings research and experience to provide practical answers to this growing movement. Some readers may find some chapters a bit tedious, but for those who appreciate our roots and our shared struggles, there is much useful information to be gleaned. <br />Adler examines the diversity of beliefs that comprise Neo-Paganism, including witches, druids, Odinists, etc. The extensive sections on feminism definitely date DRAWING DOWN THE MOON, yet even within these sections are profound nuggets of information worthy of contemplation. Other sections relate intensely personal stories that reveal the profound nature of this spiritual path. One example that really provoked a reaction in me is the section regarding whether or not your \\"initiation\\" is valid if you have been initiated by someone who's own initiation is questionable. This section alone certainly allowed me to reevaluate my own experiences.<br />Well organized with extensive information on various pagan paths, readers will find practical explanations of belief systems. For seekers who want practical answers to their questions to witches, druids and more, Adler's work is a must read. Not a book to be digested in one sitting, DRAWING DOWN THE MOON is worthy of long-term reading and reflection. Having talked with other who have read this book, not all will find that it \\"speaks\\" to them on their first attempt. I put it down after the first chapter a year ago, only to latch onto the same information with tremendous enthusiasm this year. Seekers will also be interested to know that DRAWING DOWN THE MOON has been widely accepted among the Pagan community as an important part of the \\"recommended\\" reading list. Very highly recommended.<br />Bright Blessings,<BR>Weaver	2002-06-01
1527507:US	49693975	R3INAELLU4OBHQ	0373244495	767978776	Bittersweet Passion (The Westmoreland Diaries) (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	BITTERSWEET PASSION continues The Westmoreland Diaries series by Peggy Webb. The narrative is interspersed by journal entries spanning four decades penned by Anne Beaufort Westmoreland as she records the challenges and joys of her life with husband Michael. Theirs is a special kind of love: they knew at first sight they were bound together as soul mates, and even as Michael's career as a mountaineer carries him thousands of miles away, they have always treasured their bond. As parents, Anne and Michael only wish their children could experience the kind of love they share. This selection in The Westmoreland Diaries is their daughter Emily's story.<br />With a voice of an angel and the daring of a seductress, Skylar Tate thrills fans with her sexy videos and sultry voice. When she meets Methodist Minister Daniel Westmoreland, she immediately attempts to ignore the chemistry because of her past. Her father had been a \\"hell fire and brimstone\\" preacher intent upon saving his daughter's soul. When she ran away at sixteen, her father brought her home. When she ran away at eighteen, she stayed away. No way does Skylar need another minister in her life, no matter how sexy he might be.<br />Standing at his father's bedside, Daniel hears the voice of an angel. When he learns the angel's identity, Daniel rushes out to buy her six CDs and the most erotic musical video he has ever watched. Despite their obvious differences, he is hooked. Even as he fights a crisis of faith, worries over his mother's well being, and prays for his father's recovery, Daniel pursues this signing sensation, defying tabloids and irate congregation members with equal fervor. <br />Author Peggy Webb heart touching BITTERSWEET PASSION touches the beauty and the challenges of love in its most heart breaking and yet emotionally satisfying possibilities. Once again the powerful love story of Anne and Michael frame a memorable tale of love not to be missed. As Anne struggles to believe in Michael's recoveryfour months after his tragic accident, so does Skylar struggle to believe in the possibility of love for herself. Her spirited determination and indomitable spirit conceal a wounded soul that Daniel remains determined to heal. Indeed, Daniel's determination echoes his father's determination as the reader becomes privy to Michaels occasional reflections as he struggles to come out of his coma. In addition, Webb resolves the conflict of careers without the usual compromise that would interfere with these dynamic characterizations. Winner of the WordWeaving Award of Excellence.	2002-05-29
1528029:US	49693975	R1Z26800RDMYQW	0595219276	891641382	Love Poems: Feelings and Fantasies	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Light and lively verse - Recommended	Those seeking sophisticated verse will want to look elsewhere, but those who love simple rhyme and genuine feelings will delight in LOVE POEMS: FEELINGS AND FANTASIES. Richard W. Carlson Jr's exploration of love from youth to maturity will bring smiles to those who have also traveled the challenging and tumultuous path to love. With younger brother Kevin Carlson's charming illustrations, LOVE POEMS provides pleasing distraction in a world that seems to all to easily forget the enjoyment of young love. Recommended.	2002-05-29
1529049:US	49693975	R2WAYO57IOCMMH	1930693931	94060090	What Color Is Your Scarf?	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fascinating! Very highly recommended	As gay subculture continues to evolve, it develops its own myths, cultural heroes, stereotypes and sign language. For those just entering the gay community, or for those of us who simply seek understanding, books like WHAT COLOR IS YOUR SCARF? prove invaluable. <br />At the age of forty, author Michael S. Brown was a late comer to the gay community. His candid account of his coming out and subsequent exploration of the gay community is extraordinarily enlightening. His candid descriptions of gay bars, personal ads and the internet will sound quite familiar to those who have journeyed before him. <br />Like handkerchiefs worn hanging out of a back pocket, gay men are creating their own language and meanings to convey intent. Men exploring their sexuality and seeking an entry to an otherwise wildly confusing landscape will welcome WHAT COLOR IS YOUR SCARF? for its pragmatic, humorous, irreverent approach to homosexuality. Further, although I began with a fascination for a lifestyle that is completely opposite my own, I ended with the realization of the commonness of experience in the quest to find Mr. Right.	2002-05-28
1530863:US	49693975	R3UCDL6FR801NZ	037325976X	469876298	Private Investigations (Heat)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Tori Carrington at their best!! Very highly recommended	Private Investigator Ripley Logan's first day on the job is a bust. No one admits to recognizing the grainy photo she carried to Memphis, so Ripley comforts herself with a hot bubble bath at her hotel. But when three gun-wielding men break into her room, quick thinking lands the still naked woman in the bed of a sexy stranger.<br />Joe Pruitt knows something is missing from his life. Business success no longer leaves him fulfilled, but he did not realize what was missing until the unorthodox stranger climbs through his hotel window, bringing sensual excitement to his life both in and out of bed. Joe quickly attaches himself to Ripley, determined to see her case to its end. <br />PRIVATE INVESTIGATIONS displays writing team Tori Carrington's talent at its scintillating best. Comic humor sharply contrast torrid passion resulting in a memorable reading experience. Ripley undermines Joe's stable world, leaving him questioning every element of his life. Joe determinedly hangs with Ripley through dangerously tempting danger, determined to touch her heart as well as her body. The combination of these rich characterizations, a fast paced plot, and outrageous daring make PRIVATE INVESTIGATIONS a keeper. Very highly recommended.	2002-05-26
1531058:US	49693975	RM0SQ72XYG1GE	0061031992	368890882	A Theory of Relativity	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Heart rendering -- Highly recommended	When the unthinkable occurs, hearts are put on the line. Georgia and Ray die in a tragic car accident, leaving behind their one-year-old daughter Keefer. Georgia's adopted brother Gordon McKenna wants to adopt Keefer, believing it would fulfill his sister's dying wishes. Unfortunately, his wealthy in-laws also wish to adopt Keefer.<br />Legal wrangling raise the issues of what constitutes a \\"blood relative\\" when Gordon's adoption request is initially dismissed because he is an adopted relative rather than a blood relative. When Keefer goes to life with her father's family, the typical differences in culture, religion and parenting style will echo the nightmares of any parent who lost custody of their child. Tragically, the best interest of the child becomes secondary to the letter of the law, and the needs of the survivors.<br />Readers expecting a dramatic fight complete with courtroom drama will be disappointed. But readers expecting a carefully crafted, character-driven drama that reveals the foibles, challenges and fears related to changing family dynamics will find their expectations richly rewarded. Life-like details reveal the devastation left by grief and desperation, as young Keefer becomes the symbol of survival for two families. Selfish need replaces the best interests of the child in a poignantly tragic way even as love struggles for supremacy. The themes of judgments made based upon the letter of the law rather than its spirit will strike the heart of any parent caught in a custody battle as well as those that concern adoption issues. A remarkably heart rendering novel, A THEORY OF RELATIVITY comes highly recommended.	2002-05-26
1534994:US	49693975	RLU9TC0K0P65S	1588272087	70691785	Cry the Night	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A page turner! Very highly recommended	Deep in the unexplored wilderness of Australia lie twenty years of secrets protected by a madman. The murders began with a kidnapped child, her body left in a creek, and her sister's disappearance. As the his story unfolds, the killer's motives of ritualistic attempts to end the cruelties inflicted by his mother reveal a mind destroyed by madness, erased of a conscious, and filled with delusions and darkness.<br />Four young men and a teen girl will intrude on those dangerous secrets, turning a day's walk in the country into a dangerous journey into insanity. Their struggle for survival will force them to confront their deepest fears, and not all will escape the evil that stalks them. As night descends, a trip planned to last a day will challenge the bushwalkers beyond their wildest imaginings.<br />Author Glenn Miller utilizes his gift as an artist to bring his prose a bold vividness in CRY THE NIGHT. Written with extreme intensity, CRY THE NIGHT reveals the inside view of a mind destroyed by abuse and intent upon enacting its own revenge. Insanity and darkness walk the night, sharply contrasting the innocence and beauty of youth. The unexpected turns of the plot will keep readers hooked until the last mind-blowing page. Read CRY THE NIGHT with all the lights in the house on! Very highly recommended.	2002-05-22
1540243:US	49693975	R2EH7K987YZNYZ	1894869389	95133531	His Majesty's Envoy (The Neophyte Warrior, Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	The years preceding the French and Indian War are fraught with tension between the French, the Indians, and the British. Twenty-one year old George Washington has no military experience when he heads north with doomed ultimatum for the French. Nevertheless, formalities of eighteenth century diplomacy demand that the British make a polite but forceful warning to the French to return the Ohio valley to the British before engaging arms. <br />During the most challenging days of winter, Washington leads a small group of soldiers through grueling conditions to confront Captain Philippe Joncaire of the French forces in Ohio. The seasoned men he leads consider Washington a boy, and only learning the part of a commanding officer will garner their respect. Among the party are Old Smoke and Pariah West who provide profound secondary plots that broaden the reading experience even as they expose the perils, the challenges and the dangers confronting them all.<br />Author Richard Patton creates a powerful historical drama in HIS MAJESTY'S ENVOY, Book 1 in the Neophyte Warrior series. The struggles of young George Washington to command his mission, to contain his longing for a woman he cannot have, and to face the coming war bring the dry historical data vividly alive. Rather than the image of our founding father with his neatly gray wig, we examine the early years filled with challenges, politics and impossibilities. Secondary plot lines also effectively bring this period of time alive, with a HEART OF DARKNESS undertone that promise tremendous drama in the continuation of the series. American and Canadian Indians are given the respect and honor they are due, as are the British and French factions. With a masterful finesse, the culminate effect is absolutely outstanding. I look forward to the next installment in the series. HIS MAJESTY'S ENVOY earns theWordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-05-18
1542634:US	49693975	R1XKZHA517PCV1	0373790309	205709390	Silk, Lace & Videotape	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Scintillating! Very highly recommended	It's amazing the trouble Detective Duke Rawlins can into with silk, lace and videotape. And it all started so simply. The New York Police force detective stakes out suspected drug smuggler Victor Gallaghar. By association, the police also have his high society girlfriend Amanda Matthews in their files. As Duke makes his move, Amanda arrives with incredibly ... legs and feet swathed in pink, peaking enticingly from beneath her trench coat. Her picture had enough allure for Duke, and the thing kicks his libido into overdrive. <br />Duke accompanies her in the elevator to the tenth floor, where he pretends coincidence as they both knock at the same door. Plans go awry, however, when a lipstick smeared bimbo in a man's bathrobe answers the door. Duke holds Amanda to question last, leaving squirming. After Amanda leaves, Duke finds her videotape. It's not until he views it the following day at the station, thinking it might prove to be evidence in his case against Victor, that Duke realizes the beautiful vision before him yesterday was naked beneath her coat. <br />Instead of her planned seduction, however, Amanda sits through some bimbo's questioning, her now ex-boyfriend's arrest, and her own questioning -- embarrassingly aware that she's clad in nothing but a trench coat. Terrified she's going to be caught and arrested for inadvertent flasher charges, Amanda struggles to keep her coat carefully arranged and promises she'll give up her desire to live a little if she can only go back to her anonymous, but respectable, existence. <br />Joanne Rock creates a dynamic, scintillating tale of romance and chemistry in SILK, LACE & VIDEOTAPE. She's a princess, and he's nothing but a frog from the wrong side of the pond. She's a suspect, and he's a cop. She's fabulously sexy, and he can't resist. The thrills and teasing quickly consummate in a fantastically heated encounter that leaves them both stunned. After all, it's supposed to be just about sex. But when one's entire worldis rocked, it's no longer just about sex. Duke proves himself a typical male in that he's not got a clue how to cope. With emotional challenges added to the difficulties presented by their disparate backgrounds, these character's motivations are convincing and realistic. Very highly recommended.	2002-05-15
1543741:US	49693975	R5X5G9ZIIXVV	188285909X	393450122	Juliette Low: Girl Scout Founder (Young Patriots series)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A fun read! Very highly recommended	The bodacious Juliette \\"Daisy\\" Gordon never hesitated to prove that girls and can do anything boys can do. During the first five years of her life Daisy knew the deprivations of the south during the waning years of the Civil War. She also knew the pleasures of playing in the woods with friends. After General Sherman captured Savannah, Daisy and her family traveled north to Chicago to seek refuge with her mother's family. When the war ended and her northern neighbors celebrated, one small voice cheered the south and sang Dixie. Such bold defense of the south characterized Daisy's strength and loyalty.<br />Years later Daisy learned to give up climbing trees and to enjoy parties and dancing. Eventually she married, traveling to Scotland to live in a castle with her husband. But after he died, Daisy's life felt empty, until she heard about the Boy Scouts. Recalling her own childhood love of roaming the Georgia woods, frolicking in streams and playing with friends, Daisy vows to give girls the same opportunity as boys, founding the first Girl Scout troop in Savannah, Georgia in 1912.<br />Author Helen Boyd Higgins captures the powerful spirit that founded the Girl Scouts in JULIETTE LOW: GIRL SCOUT FOUNDER. Daisy's impetuous spirit and love of nature come alive in this tale for young readers. Details like the lack of sugar for cake during the Civil War will surprise readers who have never known such deprivation. This southern girl's first experience with snow, and the power of loyalty to friends and country, provide a powerful reading experience, bringing this historical personage uniquely alive. A fascinating read, JULIETTE LOW comes very highly recommended.	2002-05-14
1548972:US	49693975	RB29764JX4F7O	0446610429	566549842	Silverbridge	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Fascinating blend of past and present! Highly recommended	American movie star Tracy Collins lands the opportunity to play opposite Shakespearean actor Jon Melbourne in a Regency film. A veteran of romantic comedies, she relishes this new challenge. Her blockbuster name assures that Americans will buy tickets, but critics suggest she cannot handle the serious drama. But drama captured on film soon echoes the drama of her personal life when she becomes a guest of Harry Oliver, the lord of Silverbridge. Tracy comes to realize that visions of the past and the dangers of the present are somehow connected. <br />Harry only allows the filming of the Regency film on his property because he needs the income to support the outlandish costs of maintaining the Silverbridge estate. Between the rules for maintaining the historical site and death taxes, Harry struggles to retain ownership, even as his younger brother demands that he sell a large part of the land to a real estate mogul intent upon displacing cattle with a golf course and a luxury resort. Harry's younger sister Meg becomes the focal point that initially draws Tracy and Harry together. When Tracy becomes his guest, she encourages Meg's interesting in film making as a way to lead the teenager toward recovery from anorexia. <br />As a new fan of Joan Wolf, I found her characters warm and engaging. Further, SILVERBRIDGE melds a number of elements from contemporary romantic suspense to paranormal. Indeed, the supernatural elements move the plot along nicely without overshadowing the subplots of romance and suspense. While some readers may be uncomfortable with such an unexpected combination elements, the overall effect is surprisingly successful. Further, Wolf's understanding of Meg's struggle with anorexia lends the novel a convincing note that nicely contrasts the supernatural elements. Tracy and Harry likewise become appealing characters with their provocative romance. Indeed, SILVERBRIDGE provides very pleasant entertainment and comes highly recommended.	2002-05-10
1549706:US	49693975	R1E9S2N92LFF91	037316923X	55095079	Help Wanted: Husband? (Harlequin American Romance, No 923)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Memorable! Very highly recommended	Six months of attempting to please her unfaithful husband immediately followed a lifetime of attempting to please her father. Now Lorna McDonough pleases no one but herself, hanging brilliant yellow shutters on her austere New England farmhouse and planning to paint the front door bright blue. She even wears chartreuse to her cheating husband's funeral. Only two days later she learns of her pregnancy. Now isolated by her father's and husband's reputations, and derided as \\"Loony Lorna\\" by town folk, Lorna struggles to revitalize the failing farm that she dreams of becoming her unborn child's legacy. <br />Lorna's farm has enough work for an army of men, but her help wanted ad only attracts one: Julius Holt. A man who never stays in one place long, Julius cannot outrun the reminders of his painful youth when he made a tragic mistake. Yet Lorna inspires a reason to hope. She makes him dream of roots, land and a home. A rambling, smooth-talking, sensual man, Julius epitomizes the men Lorna wishes to avoid. But she needs help, so she meets his demands. In return for his working the farm until harvest, she will give him a stake in the land. She does not know she will give him her heart as well. <br />Author Darlene Scalera reveals the soul of a poet in HELP WANTED: HUSBAND. Her lyrical prose and eloquent descriptive style captures the essence of farming warm moist earth and the profundity of spring. Indeed, the novel moves with the rhyme of the season, reflecting new beginnings for spring, warm fertile growth in summer, and the harvest in the fall. The challenges of weather and childbirth are met with an understanding of the cycle of life and the unexpected moments of eternal hope. A richly satisfying, character driven romance, HELP WANTED: HUSBAND? Comes very highly recommended.	2002-05-09
1549708:US	49693975	R3G2HXVDRLGG8D	0373710577	625516990	The Secret Son: A Little Secret (Harlequin Superromance No. 1057)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Extremely evocative - Highly recommended	A week in New York and a chance encounter brings a senator's wife and freelance hostage negotiator together in a night of passion that leaves them both deeply touched. Jack Shaw awakens Erica Cooley's heart for the first time. She is the first person to touch Jack's heart since the tragic death of his wife and child. They agree to never see one another again, and go their separate ways. But neither one forgets.<br />Five years later Senator Jefferson Cooley knows that Kevin is not his biological child, but the boy is the child of the senator's heart. He magnanimously forgave his beloved wife's indiscretion, but as the years have passed, he has also come to understand that while she loves him, she cannot offer him the passion he desires. He finally divorces her, and six months later Jack chances back into her life. No matter how she feels, however, she believes that she can never tell him of THE SECRET SON.<br />Author Tara Taylor Quinn pens a deeply emotional tale in THE SECRET SON, part of the A Little Secret series. Her gift for examining the nuances that flavor relationships, the motivations for protection and secret keeping, and the emotional ramifications of guilt bring THE SECRET SON a deep psychological underpinning. Erica's struggles will strike an empathetic cord with readers, even if they do grow slightly impatient with some of her decisions. Guilt often drives her into excessive self-flagellation, yet is understandable for any woman with her heart caught between two worlds. Her ex-husband Jefferson is a sympathetic and sterling character readers will not soon forget. Jack's struggle to overcome the past and to give into the lure of passion lends his character the emotional flaws that make him believable and provides the power to transform his life. Quinn's daring plotting and careful handling of the related moral issues is extraordinary. THE SECRET SON comes highly recommended.	2002-05-09
1549753:US	49693975	R3H9DQ29AFF0NM	0373710585	916660474	Shooting the Moon (Harlequin Superromance No. 1058)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	A thoughtful note from a friend that including his former girl friend's obituary brings Harley Nelson back to Portland, Oregon after a ten year absence. When he arrives on the Worthington's doorstep, Harley announces that he will not leave until he sees his son. Just the sound of his son's voice leaves him shaken and overwhelmed with a need to claim the child as his own. Ten years ago he had left with the question of what he had to offer the child burning uppermost on his mind. He returns with the same question and the determination to find answers. While he tries to remind himself that Lauren is cut from the same cloth as the rest of his family, Harley still struggles to keep his priorities straight and his concern for how his actions affect Lauren under check.<br />Lauren remembers Harley with bitterness. He took her father's money before disappearing from their lives. His departure seemed to have provoked the downward spiral that her sister became enmeshed in, ending in her alcohol related death six months ago. Before dying, her sister had entrusted her parents with custody of nine year old Brandon. Although she lacks a legal status, Lauren has always provided care and support to Brandon. In fact, she has built her life around the child. Now with Harley arrival, she fears her status will go from favored aunt to absent aunt. Worse, her growing attraction to Harley only adds more emotional complications.<br />Brenda Novak's skill for creating an intriguing blend of strengths and weaknesses shines in SHOOTING THE MOON. The sharp contrast between wealth and poverty highlights Harley's desire to prove himself on his personal merits rather than the improved status of his checkbook. Lauren's devotion to her nephew and her character growth likewise makes her appealing. As her sister's journals provides powerful insight into the past, the reader also comes to respect Lauren for her reevaluation of the past and her decision to stand behind her convictions whatever the cost. Secondary characters are likewise memorable, including the nine year old who wants to know his birth father. While the grandparents can be harsh and judgmental, the reader never doubts their genuine love and concern for their deceased daughter and beloved grandson. A remarkable achievement with rich characterizations, clashing emotions, and a captivating plot, SHOOTING THE MOON earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-05-09
1549777:US	49693975	R3KJ8N7IQW4T5R	0373710607	727091472	The Doctor Delivers (Harlequin Superromance No. 1060)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A heart-rendering drama -- Highly recommended	Twelve years of marriage provided Catherine Prentice the ideal career. She enjoyed raising her children and baking cakes. Divorce provided her with disillusionment and overwhelming challenges. Her husband married her one-time best friend, and now continuously underscores her inability to provide for her children financially. Still on probation for her new job in the hospital's public relations department, Catherine's job is on the line when Dr. Martin Connaughton refuses to go along with surgery on his newest patient. <br />Martin is a rebel. He refuses to comply with hospital politics for the sake of publicity, especially when doing so is morally wrong. Five years ago his wife died when they were in Northern Ireland, and he has subsequently immersed himself in his work, building emotional walls that forbid entrance by other people. Yet somehow Catherine slips past his defenses, making him smile again. Then the chief of surgery recommends an operation for Martin's newest patient, and he cannot agree. His defiance risks his job and Catherine's as well. He also risks both of their hearts.<br />Author Janice Macdonald creates a richly textured romance in THE DOCTOR DELIVERS. When politics and medicine collide, morals and ethical dilemmas create dynamic tension drawn from Macdonald's own experience in the public relations department of a large medical center. Her knowledge of neonatal care units likewise lends a touch of realism that brings her tale vividly alive. The emotional intensity of both primary and secondary characters results in a powerful, heart-rending drama. Heroine Catherine will especially score points with single mothers struggling with career, children, and finances. When she receives a letter from the bank regarding her overdrawn account, I could not help but empathize. Hero Martin's coldness exterior belies his overwhelming concern for his young patients, likewise endearing him to the reader. With crisp dialogue and wonderful characterizations, Macdonald delivers an excellent first novel that promises great things for her writing career. Highly recommended.	2002-05-09
1549866:US	49693975	R1XHUMN6K5S5WL	0373710593	859497989	You're My Baby: 9 Months Later (Harlequin Superromance No. 1059)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	English teacher Pam Carver becomes proof that condoms do not always work. Unfortunately, the parents and the administrators of the private school where she teaches will not sympathize with an unwed mother. So colleague and friend Grant Gilbert's unexpected proposal offers the perfect solution. A simple written contract and they will be married for a year, assuring security for mother and child. She never expected to fall in love, and she dreads the day when this patched together family will come unraveled.<br />After thirteen years of divorce, Grant's ex-wife still attempts to manipulate him whenever it suits. This time she plans to go oversees for a year, dropping his teen son Andy in his lap after years of excuses as to why he could not spend time with him. But to have this year with his son, Grant needs a live-in housekeeper now, and none are available. Therefore, he proposes a marriage of convenience to solve both his and Pam's difficulties. He does not suspect the overwhelming consequences of their marriage.<br />The traditional marriage for convenience theme includes unusual twists in YOU'RE MY BABY by Laura Abbot. The premise is absolutely fascinating, with a morally questionable choice for the biological father, which becomes utterly understandable once the circumstances emerge. The motivation for this marriage of convenience is absolutely believable: Mother-to-be Pam risks her beloved career and the ability to support herself and her child without a ring on her finger. Her proposed husband likewise has a desperate, yet utterly convincing, need for a wife. The resulting family dynamics create enough tension to keep the reader glued to their tale. In addition, teen Andy's journal also provides remarkable insight in a fascinating context, and his attitude with a capital A is exactly how a teen would respond under the circumstances. The battles over teens, new babies, parenting mistakes, and love make YOU'RE MY BABY one of the best Superromances I have had theprivilege to review. Make room on your keeper shelf for this winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-05-09
1549918:US	49693975	RK6Q95L6RWO6J	0373272219	440237963	Friend, Lover, Protector (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1151) (Intimate Moments, 1151)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Dr. Dahlia Jensen, as associate professor at Colorado Mountain University, is a storm chaser. She plans for her research and theories about lightening to earn her a grant and a promotion. An ex-husband and broken engagement have persuaded Dahlia to avoid romantic encounters. Dahlia has subsequently maintained tight control over life; that is, right up until Army Ranger Jack Trahern climbs into her van claiming to be her bodyguard. Suddenly her life careens out of control and she believes Jack is the most dangerous man she has ever met.<br />Jack agrees to keep Dahlia safe as a favor to an old friend. Impressed by Dahlia's courage and determination, Jack intends to prevent her from becoming a mob hit during her sister's testimony. With a month of accrued leave, Jack devotes himself to insuring Dahlia's safety. Unfortunately, he would also rather be anywhere but storm chasing. And despite his growing attraction for Dahlia, Jack does not do permanence or babies. Nor does he have sex with a woman he cannot walk away from. Now Jack is left wondering how in the world he will keep safe from Dahlia.<br />Award winning author Sharon Mignerey demonstrates her outstanding talent in this sequel to TOO CLOSE FOR COMFORT. FRIEND, LOVER, PROTECTOR builds tension from the first page and never relents. Sexual tension underlies physical danger as these fascinating characters, an unusual background, and a tightly knit plot combine in thrilling excitement. Further, Dahlia faces an interesting challenge in her relationship with men. Her physical attributes bring constant attention to her body, making her wish for \\"just one guy who sees beyond the obvious.\\" Jack sees beyond the obvious very quickly, but has his own challenges to overcome. In addition, Mignerey deftly captures the dangerous atmosphere of academia when professional jealousies meet with personal vendettas. Dahlia's nemesis and former mentor is a character readers will love to hate. An outstanding read, FRIEND, LOVER, PROTECTOR earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-05-09
1549954:US	49693975	R3KBWDY2KV361W	0373790449	910533782	Bound To Happen (WWW.Girl-Gear)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Game playing has never been so fun!	In ALL TIED UP, Macy Webb begins this adventuresome series with a scavenger hunt when she gathers the other employees of gIRL-gEAR and some male friends for \\"game night.\\" Present are Sydney Ford and Ray Coffey, who team up for Macy's scavenger hunt. Ray wins the scavenger hunt, receiving a promise of a pleasure cruise aboard Sydney's father's yacht. Although Ray would have preferred a vacation for two, to keep Sydney company he invites several of her business partners and friends. Now the repercussions from Macy's scavenger hunt continue to reverberate in BOUND TO HAPPEN.<br />What should have been a vacation pleasure cruise becomes a vacation at an island paradise instead when their yacht strands them on a Caribbean island only twelve hours out of port. Fortunately, Sydney's father happens to own the island and it has every amenity. Sydney blames the island for casting a sensual spell, leaving her desirous of the man to whom she gave her virginity eight years ago. Perhaps if she seduces him, Sydney can get Ray out of her system before they return to the states.<br />Having Sydney to himself fulfills Ray's fantasy. So the privacy afforded by the change in plans pleases him greatly. The time they spent together during the scavenger hunt merely whetted his appetite for the girl he'd never forgotten-only now she's the woman of his erotic fantasies. He has always wondered why she chose him on that one wild night when she gave him her virginity. Eight years later he still feels a connection. He is not looking for permanence, but he sure would like to find answers and share a good time. <br />Author Alison Kent neatly ties off the loose ends begun in the previous two installments of the gIRL-gEAR trilogy in BOUND TO HAPPEN. Everyone on the vacation seems to get plenty of heated action, in scintillating detail, with the exception of Sydney and Ray. Indeed, the hero and heroine spend much of the novel lost in a frustrated, needy, desirous condition, which makes for great fun for the reader! The secondary plot concerning Annabelle Lee, nicknamed Poe, develops nicely as this antagonist from the previous novel, NO STRINGS ATTACHED, becomes a solid partner in gIRL-gEAR. I admit to having a weakness for this outspoken, ambitious, sensual, intelligent woman! I also must admit to my favorite scene: a little too much rum in the fruit leads to highly erotic dancing, which the men eventually chance upon. BOUND TO HAPPEN is a sizzling, sensual delight that comes very highly recommended!	2002-05-09
1550034:US	49693975	R2YNCFLK72VWOP	0373259786	394852327	Her Perfect Stranger (The Wrong Bed)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Wonderful! Very highly recommended	One wretched night while a storm rages in Huntsville, Alabama, a woman seeks refuge in a hotel pub. The man watches her temper with amusement. She's drenched, filled with fire, passion and rage. When the power goes out, he offers her his room for the night. It seems like the perfect opportunity for two perfect strangers to share their passion. Their connection is electric, but when morning comes, the woman is gone. <br />Mike shipped in from his assignment in Russia to accept a pilot position in a space shuttle mission. He is stunned to learn that his commander is Corrine Atkinson, the perfect stranger of the night before. And he is hurt that her cold demeanor in no way acknowledges the connection they made. His bitter disappointment leaves him determined to break through Corrine's formidable defenses. <br />Corrine has ignored her sexual needs for the sake of success in her career. She uses her tough exterior to intimidate the people around her. Realizing she's slept with someone she will work closely with for the next four months, Corrine cannot help wondering if this some kind of cosmic joke. He had been perfect, and now she will pay the price. If her team finds out, Corrine will lose the control and power she has battled so hard to earn.<br />Jill Shalvis once again reveals her gift for dramatic flair in HER PERFECT STRANGER. Caught in a conundrum of their own making, Corrine and Mike are likeable, sympathetic, and witty as they struggle to cope with the consequences of their stormy night together. Corrine wants to force distance between herself and the men she commands, even as she wants to shatter her Ice Princess reputation. As she struggles to control her passions, Mike's outrageous antics keep her desperately on edge, thereby maintaining a delicious tension in the novel. Corrine's parents and the events surrounding the climatic scene are wonderfully scripted, making the conclusion absolutely delightful. Sizzling passion and electric awareness makes HER PERFECT STRANGER perfect for the keeper shelf. Very highly recommended.	2002-05-09
1550158:US	49693975	R2RAB5YCQUXJAR	0373764391	309090942	Cassie's Cowboy Daddy	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Marvelous character driven romance	The Lazy Ace ranch will make a perfect home for widow Cassie Wellington and her twin babies. While the house defiantly needs a woman's touch, it has incredible potential. She looks forward to adding slipcovers and potpourri, as well as throwing the unattractive hunting trophies. But when she finds a naked man snoozing in the bathtub, Cassie's expectations take a sudden shift.<br />Logan Murdock learned that women do not belong on his isolated ranch the hard way. Medical treatment and shopping are simply too far away for him to bring a woman to the Lazy Ace. But when his new partner determinedly settles in, Logan finds himself struggling to maintain his equilibrium, let alone preserve his lone bachelor existence.<br />Kathie Denosky pens a wonderful character driven romance with an engaging premise in CASSIE'S COWBOY DADDY. From the moment Cassie finds herself gazing into the bathtub at a sexy, nude body, the tension builds. Although the conflict is largely internal, the plot moves quickly as rancher Logan reconciles the loss of his isolated existence to widow Wellington. Indeed, Denosky has a flair for presenting a charming romance rich with humor and emotional complexity. CASSIE'S COWBOY DADDY comes very highly recommended.	2002-05-09
1550290:US	49693975	RDQU4AL7XD1V1	0505524813	63291784	The Misconception	Books	5	27	30	N	N	Over the top! Very highly recommended	Biology professor Dr. Marietta Dalrymple planned her pregnancy carefully. She advertised in an academic journal and screened the prospects on the basis of such considerations as their IQ and family medical history. Unconcerned with the prospective sperm donor's physical appearance, Marietta wants her baby to have the best advantages possible for a successful future with health and intellect. Marietta selects Harold McGinty to be the donor, with his high IQ, excellent medical history, and position as a biochemist at a pharmaceutical research facility. She does not know that just before boarding the plan, Harold will have second thoughts. A chance encounter with a high school friend sends Cash Jackson, Jax, in his place. <br />The exact terms of Harold's proposed encounter with Marietta were not made clear before Jax boarded the D.C. bound plane. Nor does he appreciate Marietta's conviction that sexuality is a biological function and never one truly of the heart. Events sweep him along and he finds himself spending an extraordinary afternoon in Marietta's arms, leaving them both stunned by their connection. Business interrupts Jax, and before he can return to the hotel, Marietta slips away. Jax hires a private investigator, and two months later learns he is about to be a father. Unfortunately, he is under the misconception that Marietta might want him to be a father. And she is under the misconception that he might give up. Indeed, Jax will challenge every concept Marietta believes regarding marriage, relationships, and fatherhood.<br />Be aware of your surroundings when you read THE MISCONCEPTION. I am not one to laugh out loud while reading very often, but not only did author Darlene Gardner have me giggling and chortling, but by the end of THE MISCONCEPTION I was howling! Gardner captures the heroine's stuffy attitudes of academia and the dialogue of an intellectual with pizzazz, and then contrasts it with a wonderfully sexy, down to earth hero who supports his mother and puts his brothers through college. These characters achieve a remarkable depth even as their secrets and fears keep the plot moving quickly. The secondary plot, of an attempt at reuniting a couple of the verge of divorce, adds a touch of spice that will keep the pages turning. As one outrageous event follows quickly on the heels of the next, readers will find themselves wondering what could happen to top this one, and the laughing at the hilarity of the next. A wonderfully entertaining read that belongs on the keeper shelf, THE MISCONCEPTION wins the WordWeaving Award of Excellence.	2002-05-09
1550294:US	49693975	R2OGOVMUOBAJDL	0373790414	417363331	A Stranger's Touch (Midnight Fantasies)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Naughty, sweet, and hot! Very highly recommended	Eight days before her wedding, Dulcy Farris' two best friends take her to a bar for a private bachelorette party. A few too many tequila shots loosen tongues, and Dulcy confesses her forbidden fantasy of making love to a complete stranger in an elevator. Little does she suspect that events will conspire to make her inebriated wish come true. Too long without a man's touch has left her hungry for more than Brad's chaste promise of consummating their relationship on their wedding night. <br />Quinn Landis has that sexy, bad-boy look that turns women's thoughts to erotica. When he arrives at the bar on the prowl after too many nights alone, he does not expect find such a sensual bad-girl playing good. Molten temptation brings them together in a fiery fantasy come true that leaves them both shaken. Too bad that they will never see one another again. But they do, in the most expected context. Dulcy's fiancé Brad has gone missing, and Quinn had arrived in town to be Brad's best man. <br />Writing team Tori Carrington out do themselves in sensual treat that truly dares wildest fantasy in A STRANGER'S TOUCH. They capture the essence of the moral dilemma of two people who are perfect for one another, but bound by loyalty to the same man. Dulcy plans to marry a man she does not love for security, and her ethics do not allow her easily fall in love with someone else. Quinn and Brad grew up together, bound by bonds deeply rooted into their shared history. With Brad missing, neither Dulcy nor Quinn have the easy option of setting things straight, and the added complications of Brad's disappearance and lifestyle only compound their problems. Indeed, A STRANGER'S TOUCH possesses a daring plot that easily could descend into justification or moral improbabilities; instead, it becomes sensually erotic, emotionally challenging, and morally believable. In addition, Carrington has a gift for portraying both male and female point of view in a fluid style that greatly enriches the tale;this gift is especially effective and entertaining in A STRANGER'S TOUCH. Add this one to your keeper shelf; it comes very highly recommended!	2002-05-09
1550475:US	49693975	R1XWOG0PE84IDY	0373790422	513560523	Intent To Seduce	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award of Excellence	Dr. MacKenzie Lloyd moves her scientific research from the lab to the bedroom with a three-step plan formulated to please her future husband. She has gathered imperial evidence, interviewed professionals, and formed her hypothesis. Now she needs to test the validity of her conclusions in the field. In other words, Mac needs a man to help her put her theories in practice. But when her starts practicing her techniques on sexy CEO Lucas Wainright, Mac gets rather unexpected results.<br />With looks like a fallen angel, Lucas makes women's hearts go pitter pat, but he decided a long time ago that he does not need the responsibility of a wife. Mac's unorthodox proposition of no strings attached sex is tempting. Lucas senses a sensual, sexy woman concealed beneath Mac's prim, innocent appearance. Her courage and honesty likewise provide enticing allure. In fact, he has never met a woman who arouses such erotic fantasies in him, yet she has yet to reveal that the attraction is mutual. The result is a heady challenge Lucas cannot resist.<br />Seductive fantasy meets the demands of reality in INTENT TO SEDUCE with the sophisticated flair that characterizes author Cara Summer's work. Indeed, seduction becomes both a science and an art, carefully balancing the desires of the libido with the needs of the heart. This brilliant scientist and talented CEO need to learn that sensuality and romance go hand in hand when two people share their profound connection. More accustomed to lab experiments than bedroom ones, Mac proves to be an enticing heroine as she formulates her plans to please Lucas. Her savvy, gutsy experimentation make her a real delight. Lucas' demand for reality to supplant fantasy does not fit with Mac's plan, providing titillating conflict of the sensual nature. A strong secondary plot lends added depth and more delightful characters. Indeed, an absolutely memorable romp, INTENT TO SEDUCE earns the WordWeaving Award of Excellence.	2002-05-09
1550514:US	49693975	R3IG4HOQTGN6WF	0373764359	923241952	His Majesty, M.D. (Man Of The Month/The Royal Dumonts) (Desire, 1435)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A tale to savor -- Very highly recommended	Following eight failed matchmaking attempts, Tara York journeys to Marceau to become a guest of the royal household. Her father has hopes this attempt will be more successful than earlier matchmaking attempts, but Tara has perfected the art of making herself completely resistible. Baggy clothes in the worst colors, thick glasses and a carefully dull personality have kept previous suitors at bay. But then, she has never met a man like Prince Nicholas Dumont before.<br />Nicholas has more failed matchmaking attempts to his credit than even Tara. He would rather practice medicine than produce royal heirs. But when he meets Tara, Nicholas finds himself captivated by her determination to present herself as undesirable. Nicholas is used to women throwing themselves at his feet, and the challenge to get to know Tara results in a deeper attraction than he cares to admit. <br />Leanne Banks gift for dynamic characterizations makes HIS MAJESTY, M.D. a delightful read. Tara York's determined ugly duckling routine cannot conceal the passion and honesty that draws sexy Prince Nicholas Dumont like a moth to fire. Despite his best intentions, Nicholas will quickly learn that heated passion cannot conceal compelling emotional complications, despite his best intentions to allow them both to maintain their independence and goals to seek very separate dreams. Secondary characters likewise add complexity, including a queen who wants her son married and a sister with a perchance for shopping and rebellion. This perfect balance between fun and sensuality deftly demonstrates why Banks has earned such accolades as Romantic Times Career Achievement awards for her writing. A tale to savor, HIS MAJESTY, M.D. comes very highly recommended.	2002-05-09
1550669:US	49693975	R28YJ9O8VXAURE	0373710615	336141852	Wonders Never Cease: Count on a Cop (Harlequin Superromance No. 1061)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Ben Jacobs brings twelve years of experience with the Santa Ignacio Police force and a remarkable partner when he accepts the offer to come to the smaller Bullion, California force. At ten, Czar has reached the typical age of retirement, but retirement usually brings a quick death to canines deprived of their beloved jobs. Consequently, the move buys Ben a few more years to work with Czar. His accustomed control meets its challenge in reporter Jill Martin, however. Her lively spunkiness and irreverence leaves him intrigued, even when those in positions of power warn him away from the rebellious reporter.<br />Jill never backs away from a story even if the mayor and others accuse of her being on a vendetta rather than chasing facts. Her ex-husband and his wife, her former best friend, work for Land Barons, a huge corporation intent upon bringing Bullion a new housing development. Friends tease Jill about her lacking social life when she is more impressed by the dog than the man. Indeed, the instant affinity between her and Czar astonishes Ben. Jill cannot help wishing that Ben could be as approachable as his dog. Then danger brings about extraordinary events that transform her perspective of both man and beast.<br />Author Debra Salonen constructs a usual and intriguing plot and then pulls it off with aplomb in WONDERS NEVER CEASE. A canine perspective lends this tale an stunning element that separates WONDERS NEVER CEASE from the stereotypical fair of series romance. So be prepared to suspend disbelief as Salonen takes the reader beyond the ordinary romance providing humor and intrigue in equal doses. Characterizations are equally intriguing. Jill's cynicism regarding her ex-husband and former friend provides comic relief as she gives as well as she takes. Ben's dislike of things that do not make sense, and his need to solve puzzles makes him not only a terrific cop, but a wonderful hero as he disregards other's opinions and forms his own regarding Jill. As the author reminds us, \\"wonders never cease when you have a little faith,\\" as she so deftly proves. WONDERS NEVER CEASE earns the Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-05-09
1550743:US	49693975	RJA4Y0MX5V72N	0505524805	835349208	Night Games	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Sex is the only game in town	In 2502 Brian Byrne is every woman's fantasy. In a futuristic world where sex replaces Monday night football, Brian helps his team win the Universal trophy. But satisfying four women at once does not leave Brian fulfilled. He longs for something more, and seeks answers in his ancestral castle five hundred years in the past. There he encounters Allie O'Neill, an American tourist who authored the best-selling series about being the perfect wife before her own marriage ended in divorce. Allie is the first woman who does not act on her desire for Brian; consequently, the challenge makes Allie the first woman he ever truly wants. <br />With a divorce negating her advice in her previous books, Allie's writing career is on the line. Her next book must focus on the sexual compatibility of finding a perfect husband. Now she needs Brian to help with her with the book. Brian needs the experience of being with a woman who creates desire in him without a game on the line. If aiding Allie with her new book will keep her around, then Brian will share more about sex with her than Allie ever imagined. But when the games end, Allie and Brian must face the chasm of years that separates them, and the consequences of playing with fire.<br />A look into a future where sex is the only game worth playing showcases author Nina Bang's talent for witty, irreverent eroticism in NIGHT GAMES. A sensual time travel that at once titillates and satisfies, NIGHT GAMES will challenge readers to suspend their disbelief for yet another improbable, rollicking tale of time travel that is worth the walk on the edge of ridiculous. Sexy Brian Byrne is a hero to pant after with his amazing sensual talents and hidden vulnerabilities. Heroine Ally O'Neill's hand off approach challenges Brian in a tempestuous fantasy with scintillating details. Secondary characters likewise dazzle, including a shapeshifter, a meddlesome aunt seeking supernatural experience, and a touching legend based on Brian's castle. Sizzling, sensual tension results in a novel that will join THE PLEASURE MASTER on reader's keeper shelves. NIGHT GAMES comes very highly recommended.	2002-05-09
1550752:US	49693975	R3UM8LBUJD96CL	0373710569	65511172	Man with a Message: The Men of Maple Hill (Harlequin Superromance No. 1056)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Absolutely charming! - Highly recommended	With water pouring from a shower wall, Mariah slips on a towel, knocking her unconscious. She falls and comes face-to-face with one of Whitcomb's Wonders. Plumber Cameron Trent moves her sodden body to a bed out of the water, and performs mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. But he is the one left stunned when she kisses him and then slugs him. Despite her mixed signals, Cameron finds himself enchanted with the avenging angel with the left hook.<br />Badly scarred by three miscarriages and a stillbirth, Mariah does not believe her dreams of family will ever come true. Her husband cruelly stressed his need for biological children and rejected her when she refused to get try another pregnancy. Now Mariah enjoys her quiet life as a dorm mother at the local boarding school and dreams of a trip to Europe. She resents Cameron's intrusion her life because he ignites her desire for things she cannot have. <br />Muriel Jenson brings a small-town richness to MAN WITH A MESSAGE, part of the continuing Men of Maple Hill series. Heroine Mariah echoes the disillusionment endemic in many modern women when her dreams of a traditional family seem to have become impossible. But Cameron's heart-warming assurances that dreams can come true makes MAN WITH A MESSAGE a modern fairy tale complete with a happy ending. Secondary characters are likewise endearing from Mariah's bohemian sister to her young charge that insists upon digging for bold in attics behind shower tile. A warm read filled with charm, MAN WITH A MESSAGE comes highly recommended.	2002-05-09
1550753:US	49693975	RE3XAYXLLQFI3	0373169213	24501523	The Simply Scandalous Princess (Harlequin American Romance, No. 921)(The Carradignes: American Royalty, series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Tender and romantic - Very highly recommended	Having eliminated his eldest two American granddaughters from inheriting his throne, King Easton of Korosol orders the investigation of his third granddaughter. Now the king orders retired General Montcalm, captain of the Royal Guard, to investigate Lucia Carradigne's background. Duty and devotion to his king motivates Harrison Montcalm. He once even took a bullet to save the king, but finds matter of the heart to be far more deadly. For the first time in his career, Harrison wishes someone else was the king's most trusted advisor. <br />If not for a scandalous article printed in a tabloid, no one would have questioned Lucia's suitability for the crown. Now this investigation to ascertain the validity of the tabloid's claims places Harrison in a dangerous position. His king attempts matchmaking between Lucia and Harrison's son, not knowing Harrison himself has fallen for the woman who is nineteen years younger. During their dance at her sister's wedding, Lucia likewise recognized the connection between them, and now welcomes the investigation as an opportunity to ignite the passion and fire that she leaves lurks beneath his cool exterior. <br />Author Michele Dunaway creates one of the tenderest romances I have had the pleasure to encounter in THE SIMPLY SCANDALOUS PRINCESS. Dunaway boldly allows a tremendous age difference to separate her Harrison and Lucia, and then throws the hero's son at Lucia. Despite her family best intentions, Lucia embraces the opportunities that come her way to show Harrison how she feels, gently seducing him into a relationship he never dreamed possible. Lucia provides him with healing and surprising wisdom; he inspires her creativity and brings her happiness. An unlikely match, Harrison and Lucia compliment one another with strength and fire, yet with a gentle quality seldom matches. A remarkable and beautiful tale, THE SIMPLY SCANDALOUS PRINCESS comes very highly recommended.	2002-05-09
1551366:US	49693975	R35XJ694DA811N	0759905126	159131930	Beyond Stone and Steel: A Tribute to the September 11, 2001 Victims	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Lessons for us all -- Very highly recommended	Where were you when the World Trade Center collapsed? We as a nation are deeply scarred by the events of that day. Yet in the hands of author Brian Vaszily, we also have the opportunity to revaluate those lost lives as a gift of life affirmations. Indeed, Vaszily creates an intensely personal work that will touch all American hearts in BEYOND STONE AND STEEL. <br />Vignettes capture the intensity of the moments before death. A man on the stairs in the World Trade Center turns back to help a fallen woman, only to realize the tower is about to collapse. We've heard the stories of the heroes who brought down Flight 93, but there were others on that flight and others paralyzed by fear, by the realization of impending death who are equally missed. Each voice combines with the rising chorus of loss, reminding those of us left behind of the beauty in living.<br />I felt myself identifying with Vaszily's personal narrative as he describes how his horror and shock over such a monumental event as September 11th displaced the personal crises he faced in his life. Suddenly unemployment, bankruptcy and other mundane matters took a backseat to the appreciation of life, love and family. The voices of these fictional victims bring about the profound realization of the beauty in living, and the goodness and tremendous potential in the people around us.	2002-05-08
1553579:US	49693975	R3U9Z4X4JPI81S	037324469X	318501448	The Runaway Bride (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Fabulous cover; terrific story! Very highly recommended	An overheard conversation just before she walks down the aisle sends Judi Monroe fleeing the church, leaving her shocked groom standing at the alter. Suddenly her perception of her wildly romantic, quick courtship shifts as she recalls her fiancé's refusal to discuss business when they were together. His determination to put assets in her name no longer seems courtly, but threatening. Four days later, as she runs short of cash and drives back roads attempting to elude anyone that might follow, Judi gets lost on a gravel road. Then she suddenly swerves to avoid \\"The Lone Ranger\\" on horse back, totals her car, and finds herself faking a case of amnesia. Judi also finds a family that she quickly comes to care for and a job helping \\"Gran\\" who is recovering from hip surgery. All Judi needs is five weeks to hide, until the supposed deal her ex-fiancé implicated her in has passed. <br />Judi's Lone Ranger turns out to be Thomas Vance, a sexy horse trainer desperately trying to meet a deadline before a fourth of his ranch is sold out from under him. His struggle with the ranch is matched by his struggle connect with his teen sister, who seems to immediately take to \\"Helga,\\" the purported health care aid. Despite his suspicions, Thomas desperately needs the woman's help with Gran, and accepts the outlandish claim of amnesia despite his misgivings. As \\"Helga\\" grows on Thomas, he finds himself seeking her wisdom and skills with his family and his ranch. But he fights romantic involvement for a number of reasons, not the least being he knows she does not suffer from amnesia, but from secret keeping.<br />Author Patricia McLinn creates a fresh approach to the classic amnesia tale, giving THE RUNAWAY BRIDE an appealing twist. The shift of identity allows Judi to grow beyond her previously restrictive environment, establishing her abilities and self-confidence among people who need her. The interchange between Thomas and his teen sister is likewise fascinating as he struggles not just with \\"parenting\\" issues, but maturing female issues. Further, Gran provides a wonderful secondary character with her common sense, determination, and strength. Even the ex-fiancé sparkles with his manipulations and illegal activities-which will leave the reader amused when the truth of his activities is revealed. With a remarkable cast of characters that will linger in the reader's memory long after the last page is turned, THE RUNAWAY BRIDE belongs on the keeper shelf! Very highly recommended.	2002-05-06
1553893:US	49693975	RTZAFYULW7GZG	0373259786	394852327	Her Perfect Stranger (The Wrong Bed)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wonderful! Very highly recommended	One wretched night while a storm rages in Huntsville, Alabama, a woman seeks refuge in a hotel pub. The man watches her temper with amusement. She's drenched, filled with fire, passion and rage. When the power goes out, he offers her his room for the night. It seems like the perfect opportunity for two perfect strangers to share their passion. Their connection is electric, but when morning comes, the woman is gone. <br />Mike shipped in from his assignment in Russia to accept a pilot position in a space shuttle mission. He is stunned to learn that his commander is Corrine Atkinson, the perfect stranger of the night before. And he is hurt that her cold demeanor in no way acknowledges the connection they made. His bitter disappointment leaves him determined to break through Corrine's formidable defenses. <br />Corrine has ignored her sexual needs for the sake of success in her career. She uses her tough exterior to intimidate the people around her. Realizing she's slept with someone she will work closely with for the next four months, Corrine cannot help wondering if this some kind of cosmic joke. He had been perfect, and now she will pay the price. If her team finds out, Corrine will lose the control and power she has battled so hard to earn.<br />Jill Shalvis once again reveals her gift for dramatic flair in HER PERFECT STRANGER. Caught in a conundrum of their own making, Corrine and Mike are likeable, sympathetic, and witty as they struggle to cope with the consequences of their stormy night together. Corrine wants to force distance between herself and the men she commands, even as she wants to shatter her Ice Princess reputation. As she struggles to control her passions, Mike's outrageous antics keep her desperately on edge, thereby maintaining a delicious tension in the novel. Corrine's parents and the events surrounding the climatic scene are wonderfully scripted, making the conclusion absolutely delightful. Sizzling passion and electric awareness makes HER PERFECT STRANGER perfect for the keeper shelf. Very highly recommended.	2002-05-06
1554091:US	49693975	REV1WDXE1KJ48	0505524805	835349208	Night Games	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Sex is the only game in town -- Very highly recommended	In 2502 Brian Byrne is every woman's fantasy. In a futuristic world where sex replaces Monday night football, Brian helps his team win the Universal trophy. But satisfying four women at once does not leave Brian fulfilled. He longs for something more, and seeks answers in his ancestral castle five hundred years in the past. There he encounters Allie O'Neill, an American tourist who authored the best-selling series about being the perfect wife before her own marriage ended in divorce. Allie is the first woman who does not act on her desire for Brian; consequently, the challenge makes Allie the first woman he ever truly wants. <br />With a divorce negating her advice in her previous books, Allie's writing career is on the line. Her next book must focus on the sexual compatibility of finding a perfect husband. Now she needs Brian to help with her with the book. Brian needs the experience of being with a woman who creates desire in him without a game on the line. If aiding Allie with her new book will keep her around, then Brian will share more about sex with her than Allie ever imagined. But when the games end, Allie and Brian must face the chasm of years that separates them, and the consequences of playing with fire.<br />A look into a future where sex is the only game worth playing showcases author Nina Bang's talent for witty, irreverent eroticism in NIGHT GAMES. A sensual time travel that at once titillates and satisfies, NIGHT GAMES will challenge readers to suspend their disbelief for yet another improbable, rollicking tale of time travel that is worth the walk on the edge of ridiculous. Sexy Brian Byrne is a hero to pant after with his amazing sensual talents and hidden vulnerabilities. Heroine Ally O'Neill's hand off approach challenges Brian in a tempestuous fantasy with scintillating details. Secondary characters likewise dazzle, including a shapeshifter, a meddlesome aunt seeking supernatural experience, and a touching legend based on Brian's castle. Sizzling, sensual tension results in a novel that will join THE PLEASURE MASTER on reader's keeper shelves. NIGHT GAMES comes very highly recommended.	2002-05-06
1554851:US	49693975	R1UH62CL09JFDF	0738864757	191902046	Full Moon Shining	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Nothing is as it seems -- Very highly recommended	In FULL MOON SHINING, TA Parmalee explores our inner landscapes, tearing away the veneer of civilization to expose the \\"hidden crevices...the dark spaces no one ever goes into.\\" In the light of the full moon, long associated with insanity or the lunatic, questions are asked regarding the most hidden recesses of the human psyche, proving nothing is ever as it seems. Indeed, in the tradition of experimental fiction, Parmalee keeps the reader guessing as to the \\"truth\\" of each tale. <br />Common themes bind the stories together, especially those examining questions of sanity: \\"The world is crazy; that's what I think. If everybody were normal, everybody would be reacting to life's chaos in a bizarre way. . .sane people are insane and insane people are perfectly normal.\\" Truth becomes an elusive and impossible thing, more illusion than fact. Guilt becomes a powerful motivator, and the dark conceals that which we would prefer not to examine. Yet in the light of the full moon, the revelations are startling, eerie, and surreal. <br />Collections of short stories are always difficult to review because they are, by nature, somewhat disjunctive. But Parmalee's voice lured me in quickly with the first two stories that work in tandem, establishing a questioning, yet fluid voice that moves smoothly from tale to tale. Even as perspectives, purpose, and characters change, the consistency of tone allowed me read, reflect, and revel in the tales in one sitting. An extraordinary collection of stories, FULL MOON SHINING comes very highly recommended.	2002-05-05
1555214:US	49693975	R2UQFBN8QQGOBD	0446610348	847033353	Knight in My Bed	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A sensual delight - Very highly recommended	The MacInnes and MacLeans clans have been bitter enemies for centuries. The marriage of a MacInnes bride to a MacLean groom forges an uneasy peace, tragically broken when Lileas is found drowned on a tidal rock called the \\"Lady Rock.\\" The treacherous islet has a history of drowned wives, and the seeming resurrection of the barbaric custom shatters the truce between the clans. The MacInnes vow revenge, except for one. <br />Donall the Bold of the MacLeans and his foster brother return Lileas' body to her clan, only to be double-crossed. The MacInnes believe Donall's brother killed his wife. As chieftain to his clan, they hold Donall ultimately responsible. But Lady Isolde, sister to Lileas and chieftain to her clan, knows her clan cannot survive an act of vengeance in their comparatively weaker state. So she plans to seduce Donall, hoping to become pregnant. She promises to save his life if he agrees to her plan. <br />Initially Isolde reviles the man she holds responsible for her sister's death. Then she gets a good look at the man chained to her bed and she feels amazed at his splendid physique. She grows concerned when she realizes that Donall resembles the man in her vision on Beltane. Custom holds that he will be her soul mate, but surely that is impossible. Further, she is as bound to the bed as he, though her chains are the invisible bindings of the survival of her clan.<br />In spite of his ire, Donall cannot help but admire Isolde's courage and strength of spirit. Her bold plan at once outrages and yet intrigues him. Now Donall only prays for the cunning necessary to escape before she realizes just how very attracted her he has become. Even as her clansmen plot his demise, Donall cannot help desiring the willful and stunning Isolde. <br />Author Sue-Ellen Welfonder pens a stunning fourteenth century romance with KNIGHT IN BY BED. While the plot might be considered somewhat typical of the genre, her deft characterizations will hold readers mesmerized. Both Donall and Isolde struggle with their responsibility to their people and their growing passion. Consequently, the premise of the hero chained to a virginal bed provides delightful entertainment as Donall and Isolde struggle to maintain control of their hearts. Savvy readers will quickly solve the mystery regarding Isolde's death, but it does provide strong motivation and keeps the pace of the novel moving quickly. A sensual delight, KNIGHT IN MY BED comes very highly recommended.	2002-05-05
1556129:US	49693975	R19CU8RATG53SF	0967792975	113615897	Fatuma's New Cloth	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Fabulous lessons! Very highly recommended	Fatuma and her mother plan to spend their day in the market. Along the way, various merchants suggest their wares make chai (tea) taste better, but she does not see how their offerings make the chai taste differently. Then at the cloth shop, Fatuma chooses a new kanga cloth from which her mother will make her dress. Each Kanga pattern is imprinted with a Swahili saying, many of which have more than one meaning. Fatuma chooses a kanga imprinted with this message: \\"Don't be fooled by the color. The good flavor of chai comes from the sugar.\\" So she learns that just as surgery dissolves becoming something we cannot not see, so are the things make us special as impossible to see.<br />FATUMA'S NEW CLOTH provides not only an entertaining tale, but also a fascinating peek into a vastly different culture from most American children's. In America, we teach our children, \\"don't judge a book by its cover.\\" In Swahili, the same lesson is expressed as \\"don't judge the tea by its color.\\" Parents will welcome the message that the value of people lies on the inside where we cannot see. In addition, parents seeking to teach their children the lessons of acceptance of other people's beliefs and culture will find the story an excellent aid. In addition, authentic East African features and kanga patterns frame the pages, lending the text an extraordinary visually pleasing appearance as charming illustrations bring the text alive. An author's note at the end aids parents to further explain the nuances of the story. Also included is a recipe for chai, allowing young children to experience the story first hand. Very highly recommended.	2002-05-04
1557535:US	49693975	R9LSQ7D92TU04	9657108357	81792548	To Play With Fire: One Woman's Remarkable Odyssey	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	TO PLAY WITH FIRE records Tova Mordechai's odyssey as moves from being an evangelical female minister to becoming an Orthodox, practicing Jew. The daughter of an Egyptian Jewish mother and a British Protestant evangelical father, Mordechai devotes her life to service within her church. Ever conscious of the differences between herself and the outer world, Mordechai continuously attempts to stifle her need to connect and to fit in. <br />For many years she maintained a double life between home and school, and later work and the religious campus where she lived. When her service was rewarded with a promotion and added responsibilities on campus, Mordechai cuts most of her ties to the outside world. Yet she never could completely stifle her desire to deepen her spiritual connection to the One God, and to explore the religion of her mother.<br />Nine years in the ministry lead to depression and disillusionment with her peers, and an inability to touch the enthusiasm she once experienced. Always aware that something was still missing from her spiritual life, Mordechai buries herself in work and service. But eventually she must do more. Forbidden by her church to explore her Jewish roots, Mordechai eventually leaves behind Protestantism to pursue the freedom of her Jewish roots.<br />Author Tova Mordechai pens her extraordinary spiritual journey from Pentecostalism to Judaism in TO PLAY WITH FIRE. While her story is intensely personal, it is also universal in her search for a relationship with the God of her ancestors. Her gift with prose brings the story a sense of immediacy that makes for fascinating reading as she exposes both her joy and her disillusionment with her protestant beliefs. A must read for all spiritual seekers, TO PLAY WITH FIRE earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-05-02
1557698:US	49693975	R3D69LS2QIZ6DU	1930586574	58936676	The Long Way Home	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	The beauty of the rolling hills of the Kansas Foot Hills is initially lost on Jaxton Anderson. He only wants to fulfill his task and be on his way. His grandfather's recent heart attack has led the family to inquire regarding his grandfather's will and related worth of his ranch. Jaxon's resolve to quickly return to his \\"real life\\" in Chicago soon gives way to something more, however, when a foolish decision forces self-examination and self-honesty. Further, seeing neighboring Ami Martin's need inspires him to growth beyond his wildest imagination. Now Jaxton finds himself torn between the father and the life he left behind, and a place and a woman that claims his heart.<br />When her own grandfather died, it was Jaxon's grandfather who encouraged Ami Martin to fulfill her dream. Her grandfather's home is the only home she has ever known. Unfortunately, her father intends to sell it out from under her. Nevertheless, Ami dreams of transforming the property into a bed and breakfast -- a place of romance and beauty for the world-weary. Jaxton initially represents the city and the values Ami abhors. But when he insists upon making restitution, and then continues to help her to realize her dreams, they both learn to leave behind the bitterness and disillusionment that encumbers their lives. <br />Author Staci Stallings creates an inspirational romance in THE LONG WAY HOME that proves that a romance need not contain graphic sex to provide a beautiful story. Jaxton is a flawed hero, guilty of tragic mistakes, who grows to someone extraordinary. Ami struggles issues with self-esteem, family, and economics to come to believe in hope and dreams. Ordinary struggles with pain of destructive family relationships, struggles with self-esteem, and financial challenges lend heart-rending yet realistic challenges. Further, themes of transformation and redemption provide a spiritual foundation without overwhelming the narrative. Indeed, the author gives the novel a heart of goodness amidst the flaws that make us human. THE LONG WAY HOME earns the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-05-02
1562097:US	49693975	R39OPD73CUIYG2	0595180574	362149654	Eternity: A Contemporary Inspirational Romance	Books	4	24	26	N	N	Highly recommended	Four months after the ending of his engagement to Brandy, Aaron Foster still mourns his loss. The realization of the superficiality of their relationship offers cold comfort during the endless nights alone. Only his friendship with Harmony Jordan still brings him pleasure. Then she introduces him to a new roommate, and he feels as if he has met a missing brother. He and Drew are both mired in hated jobs hoping to work their way up the proverbial ladder. Then Drew meets a new woman, and when Aaron realizes his roommate is dating his ex-fiancée, he asks Harmony's help in The Plan.<br />During the last four years Harmony has been Drew's confidant and his best friend. Never has he suspected the deeper feelings that she keeps to herself. Years of men seeing her not as a desirable woman but simply as a buddy have left her scarred. So when Aaron asks her help in The Plan, she finds herself complying, and embarking upon a confusing yet gratifying plan to lure Drew away from certain heartache. Yet even as grows closer to Drew, she finds that The Plan merely complicated an already challenging situation.<br />Inspirational author Staci Stallings offers a refreshing romance filled with the ordinary challenges of love and the extraordinary measures endured for its sake in ETERNITY. These lively, deftly realized characters will touch readers' hearts with their struggles with finding the path to love. No heavy-handed religious message distract the reader, yet the implicit message about the value of friendship and the consequences of devastating results of easy sex strengthen the plot. A sweetly romantic repast that examines the complexities of loyalty and friendship, ETERNITY comes highly recommended.	2002-04-29
1566715:US	49693975	RDYM6W7BE8T2I	1586978179	758295360	Dangerous Haven	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Emotionally intense -- Highly recommended	Vengeance on his biological father's memory motivates Brand Templeton. At seventeen his mother had left her hometown pregnant with only five hundred dollars and a number to call from his father. Over the years his father's estate called Hawk Haven came to represent his mother's lost dreams. Now Brand has inherited Hawk Haven and he intends to raze it to the ground as soon as he buys out all shares in the property. Indeed, he had been prepared to hate the house where he was conceived in violence; instead, Brand finds himself admiring it. Thus he makes the decision to stay at Hawk Haven until he makes a final decision on how to dispose of the place.<br />Widow Sharon Smith maintains a small mail order herb business in addition to her housekeeping clients. Four years have passed since her husband died, and she misses a man's touch. She had carefully fielded the former owner's advances, and Sharon plans to maintain a careful distance from Brand as well. She does not know that Brand has spent the last two years buying up notes and stock in his father's pet project, the Green Fire Resort. He only needs only last key block to implement his plans to destroy a final chuck of his father's business empire. Sharon is the owner of the remaining stock of Green Fire Resort, and she treasures her memories of being there with her husband. Despite her determination to keep her distance from Brand, Sharon soon finds he reawakens desire that has slumbered since the death of her husband. <br />Author Barbara Clark creates a novel fraught with emotional intensity in DANGEROUS HAVEN. As Hawk Haven becomes the place to bring two wounded souls together, they quickly discover the dangers of passion and hidden motivation. Brand arrives planning vengeance against a man already dead, and finds love instead. Sharon has long mourned the loss of her husband, but Brand's arrival forces her to reevaluate the past, giving her insight she previously ignored. When Brand surprisingly proposes marriage with some unexpected conditions, they set into motion events that either promise to bind them together forever or to destroy their bond all together. A terrific read, DANGEROUS HAVEN comes highly recommended.	2002-04-25
1570879:US	49693975	R3SMXUVNZQ1Q6G	0312288271	781225514	Lords of the White Castle	Books	5	48	48	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award of Excellence	Fifteen year old Fulke FitzWairin was sent to court to serve as a companion to King Henry II's youngest son, Prince John, in hopes of ultimately regaining Whittington Castle. Prince John treats Fulke poorly, deriding him as a country bumpkin because he heralds from the Welsh marshes. His father's lessons in honor have not prepared Fulke for the deceptions and cruelty of court, making him a frequent target of Prince John's ire, culminating in the day the prince breaks a chessboard across Fulke's nose. When the dust settles, the prince looked much worse. A lifetime of bitter rivalry has begun.<br />Fulke leaves Prince John's service to become a squire to Lord Theobald Walter. Theobald proves himself to be a caring mentor of true honor. A chance game of ball among his younger brothers results in Fulke meeting the twelve year old Maude le Vavasour, who later weds Theobald. While Fulke eventually come to recognize the possibilities of passion between himself and Maude, neither wish to compromise the love and trust of Theobald, a man they both love. Eventually destiny takes a hand as Prince John's machinations make Fulke an outlaw and he threaten to marry the newly widowed Maude off to one of his court cronies. <br />Award winning author Elizabeth Chadwick captures the true essence of historical fiction in LORDS OF THE WHITE CASTLE. The challenges and triumphs of Fulke FitzWairin come alive on the pages from the ecstasy of marriage to his heart's desire to the agony of wounds both physical and mental. His king and his destiny challenge his ethics and beliefs even as Fulke remains a man of honor and valor. Although Fulke is a flawed hero, readers will adore his dedication to family and honor. Likewise, Maude presents a remarkable heroine with an impetuous spirit and fierce independence. As skilled with a bow as she is with her children, Maude sharply contrasts the typically meek and yielding women of her time. Yet Chadwick still adheres to the conventions of historical accuracy, for example, women marrying young and being left behind for safety's sake. In addition, Fulke and Maude share a passion that make the pages sizzle, and binds them even as it tears their hearts in two. Their wedding night is absolutely beautiful with fanciful touches and burning desire.<br />Chadwick is a remarkably gifted storyteller. Although the book numbers more than 600 pages, it reads quickly, fascinating the reader with the medieval period. Chadwick's admitted love for medieval reenacting gives her prose the ring of authenticity that will enthralls. LORDS OF THE WHITE CASTLE is a Winner of the WordWeaving Award of Excellence.	2002-04-22
1571462:US	49693975	R3BD9G3OB3NMOY	0671042505	244943533	The Last Chance Cafe: A Novel	Books	5	48	49	N	N	Last chances and new beginnings -- Very highly recommended	Stunned by the death of her beloved stepfather Lou, Hallie St. George desperately grieves her loss. Lou had been shot in the chest five times. While investigators dismiss his death as a burglary, Hallie has her own suspicions, confirmed when a friend passes her a key that unlocks the truth regarding corruption and drug dealing. When her ex-husband discovers her with the incriminating evidence, Hallie immediately flees with her young twins in a battered pickup truck, leaving behind bank accounts, her business, and her home.<br />Living out of a plastic suitcase and cheap clothes does not frighten Hallie. But her inability to care for her children and keep them safe does. While Hallie is long accustomed to independence, the danger threatening her and her children leaves her profoundly alone and vulnerable. When her truck breaks down in a snowstorm, however, misfortune leads her to a community where she will find love and acceptance, and a handsome man by the name of Chance Qualtrough.<br />Chance immediately suspects that Hallie is on the run. When she refuses charity, Chance suggests a place she can housesit and the waitress of The Last Chance Café offers her a job. Waitressing is a long way from being the chef of her own restaurant, but Hallie gratefully accepts. Soon her heart longs to put down roots in Primrose Creek, but with a vindictive ex-husband determined to find her, Hallie cannot trust her newfound friends with the truth, because the truth could get them all killed.<br />THE LAST CHANCE CAFÉ becomes a place of redemption and new beginnings with Linda Lael Miller's powerful pen. The vivid characterizations fill the novel with warmth, wit, and sensitivity. Hallie's need for community and connectedness makes her both believable and endearing. Chance gives the novel a deep tie to community and heritage, providing Hallie with the very things that were previously lacking in her life. In addition, Miller's talent excels with the seven year old twins. Whether they are petulant, sassy or charming, they are fully rounded characters. Secondary characters likewise sparkle, especially the wonderful romance between Jesse and the town vet -- a romance they thought they had concealed for thirty years. I confess to being a new fan of Miller's work, and although THE LAST CHANCE CAFÉ is part of an ongoing series, I delighted in reading it as a standalone. Very highly recommended.	2002-04-21
1571569:US	49693975	R1R9747OKFZTQQ	0373764189	391879328	Maternally Yours (Dynasties: The Connellys) (Harlequin Desire)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Delightful! Very highly recommended	Author Kathie DeNosky pens a charming, character driven romance in MATERNALLY YOURS, the second book of the Dynasties: The Connellys series. While King Daniel is safely ensconced in Altaria's royal palace, the investigation into his murder attempt continues. Chicago Special Investigative Unit Detective Elena Delgado has been assigned to the case. Her investigation brings her to the attention of Brett Connelly, Daniel's twin brother.<br />Elena carefully guards her hard won independence. She has worked for the Chicago PD ever since she left the foster care system. After a failed marriage that included two miscarriages, Elena longs for a child. She cares for this pregnancy carefully as she cannot afford another trip to the sperm bank. She has learned her lesson regarding playboys, charm, and controlling relationships. But her cynicism meets its match when she begins the Connelly investigation.<br />Brett Connelly, Vice-President of Public Relations enjoys his playboy lifestyle. Accustomed to charming women into following his lead, he finds Elena especially charming and challenging. His arrogance inadvertently threatens Elena's well-being, and Brett quickly finds himself feeling pleasantly responsible for her. Soon he finds her eliciting desires he never dreamed of, including fatherhood and permanence. But Brett has a few lessons to learn about combining romance with independent women.<br />Author Kathie DeNosky brings her characteristic flair for combining sensuality and humor in MATERNALLY YOURS. I always find pregnant women who enjoy their sensuality a refreshing twist, and DeNosky especially makes romance and pregnancy enticing. Further, as Elena's well deserved cynicism gives way to softer feelings, her changes and growth are believable and delightful. Yet she never abandons her principles nor takes the obviously easier path. Brett, on the other hand, has his own considerable changes of attitudes, but they come about quite naturally, such as his incredible reaction to seeing Elena's ultrasound. An utterly charming romance written with poignancy and passion, MATERNALLY YOURS comes very highly recommended.	2002-04-21
1572287:US	49693975	R2K3X6U4Y1SN69	0505524716	555063690	A Mother's Way	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Very highly recommended	Regardless of time or place, mothers have always manipulated their children's marriage choices, ostensibly for the child's own good. Just in time for mother's day, four of Love Spell's most engaging authors offer short stories of romances proving that mother knows best. This anthology is very highly recommended.<br />\\"Mother, May I?\\" by Lynsay Sands (1353): King Edward orders Lord Jonathan to choose a bride within two weeks, or he will select a bride for him. Jonathan has been sidestepping women his mother selects for him for years. Now he feels outraged at her indifference when she offers to support his quest but refuses to aid his choose. Little does he suspect that the woman he dismisses as too learned and too voluptuous is just the woman she intends for him to marry! A delightfully romantic tale with wonderful characters, including a woman that breaks typical stereotypes of attractiveness, \\"Mother, May I?\\" proves that a mother knows what is best for her son.<br />\\"The Breeding Season\\" by Lisa Cach (1750): Evelina has high spirits and lacks discipline. Charles prefers a barnyard to a drawing room. Both are considered misfits and unmarriageable, so their mothers conspire to get them married. Another tale of an unorthodox heroine, Cach chooses to portray Evelina as a woman who daringly kisses the boys without regard to consequences, preferring to live in the moment and savor her freedom. Using this historically forbidden element to great effect, in addition to cosmetics and fashion, Cach demonstrates that two mothers scheming together can be twice as effective. <br />\\"Seeking Single Superhero\\" by Julie Kenner (Today): Her mother let a superhero get away, and her marriage to a mortal was quite disillusioning. Therefore, mom intends that Jennifer marry a superhero, even placing a want ad on her daughter's behalf. Jennifer, however, lives an extraordinary life determined by her job as a spin doctor, covering superhero events with a mundane explanation the press will accept. The last thing she wants to a superhero. What she wants is an ordinary mortal and an ordinary home life. What she gets a superhero working undercover. Maybe mom's way was right, after all, in a round about way. Terrific plot twists, unexpected superpowers and a wonderful introduction to the hero of APHRODITE'S PASSION. Once again Kenner demonstrates her superflair for creating the outrageous and delightful!<br />\\"The Day Her Heart Stood Still\\" by Susan Grant (Tomorrow): Her mother's love of the extraterrestrial made growing up in Roswell, Arizona a terrible challenge. It also fueled Andie's own dreams of the stars, resulting in her selection to be a part of the team soon to be announced that will fly on a three year mission to Mars. In the month before the announcement and the ensuing publicity it will entail, Andie returns to her hometown. While gazing into the night sky, she makes a wish for the man who could make her toes curl with a single look. She never dreamed her wish would come true with a man falling from the sky! This futuristic romance proves a mother's wisdom, however unorthodox. Grant makes the future believable with this tender and far reaching tale.	2002-04-21
1574238:US	49693975	R2VM5HBSWRZZ1T	0743300610	59575208	Grave Images	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Highly recommended	Mycologist Jarron Marshall submits a grant proposal for endophytes that promote plant growth and could possibly confer some degree of insect resistance, without poisoning livestock. Industry dependent upon insecticides and fertilizers take note, and determines to stop him either by buying him and his research or stopping it. But when they send an evil man to beat Jarron into agreement, the subsequent brain damage gives Jarron unusual gifts. Suddenly he possess clairvoyant and precognitive gifts, in addition to the ability to see spirits.<br />Regardless of how his gifts came about, Jarron holds himself accountable for the consequences. He intends to find a way to control whatever is inside him and to protect those he cares about. Friends come to his aid, including a mysterious magician gifted in corporate espionage, a mathematician with a few best sellers to his credit, and a lady thief affectionately called The Wraith. As Jarron fights to protect his scientific research he finds himself equally embattled to protect himself and others from his visions of grave images.<br />Author ND Hanson creates a fascinating cross-genre novel that will keep reader's attention fixed and tension levels high with GRAVE IMAGES. The mixture of thriller, intrigue and paranormal results in an eclectic read where readers will do well to read with the lights on. Not all readers will like this dialogue-laden novel, however, finding the flow somewhat choppy and challenging to follow. But readers ready for the unusual and the dynamic will find these vivid characterizations and the fast paced plot addictive. The overall effect results in a read that comes highly recommended.	2002-04-19
1574799:US	49693975	R2GOLJ9R97901A	0312872399	719563321	Kushiel's Chosen (Kushiel's Legacy)	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	With the return of her sangoire cloak, Phedre recognizes the challenge issued by Melisande Shahrizai. The cloak marks Phedre an anguissette, one of Kushiel's chosen, as does the scarlet mark in the iris of her left eye. Phedre is a woman destined to enjoy pleasure in pain, finding love with Joscelin, who knew from the beginning what she was. Despite being condemned as an oath breaker, Joscelin has never violated the central precept of Cassiel: To protect and serve. But Phedre's plans will put his pledge to the test. When Phedre makes plans to rededicate to the Service of Naamah who commands only love as thou wilt, she risks Joscelin's love. <br />Phedre seeks two things. She needs the answer that will free Hyacinthe from his eternal indenture to the Master of Straights, and she also seeks the conspiracy that allowed Melisande to vanish from a well-guarded chamber the night before her execution for treason. Melisande had once been Phedre's patron, later selling her into slavery. Phedre knows that the cloak was only the opening gambit of a deadly game. Until she can prove it, however, Phedre must use her gifts to gain the knowledge she seeks. Phedre's gift for courtly arts, and arts of the bedroom, is only surpassed by her ability to observe, remember, and analyze. <br />Complexity of characterization and masterful plotting make KUSHIEL'S CHOSEN an addictive read. Phedre is a flawed heroine, ever aware of the consequences of her actions. The gift of Kushiel makes for a fascinating balance of pleasure and pain, lending her character a mesmerizing complexity. Her deep-seated attraction and love for her nemesis, as well as her complicated relationship with Joscelin, masterfully reveal both her strengths and flaws. Indeed, Phedre is one of those rare heroines who truly captures the reader's heart and imagination. Other characters are likewise memorable, including Joscelin with his heart torn between duty and love, and the pirate Kazan . Phedre's nemesis, Melisande likewise reveals a cunning and intricacy of characterization worthy of the most powerful of anti-heroines. <br />Not having read the first book of the trilogy entitled KUSHIEL'S DART, I initially found KUSHIEL'S CHOSEN a challenge to follow. Missing the first 700 pages of a series definitely inhibits one understanding of the complexities of personal and political affiliations and affections. Nevertheless, I quickly found myself swept away on author Jacqueline Carey's prose and transported to an alternate world of breathtaking historical fantasy. By the conclusion, I did not feel that not having read the books in order inhibited my enjoyment in any way; it did, however, feed my need to immediately order the first book of the trilogy. Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-04-18
1577210:US	49693975	R16905A7IQUP16	0373195842	267091052	Cassie's Cowboy (Soulmates) (Silhouette Romance)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	If Cassie Nevins does not find a miracle by the fourth of July, she and daughter Trish will loose their tiny home. When her husband died, his foolish get rich quick schemes left his tiny family nearly bankrupt. Now Cassie struggles to make ends meet with her tiny salary at a dress shop and entertains her child at night with stories of her own creation. Indeed, her Cowboy Charlie tales have virtually taken on a life of their own as she draws her illustrations and weaves her tales for her daughter's, and her own private and not so innocent, entertainment.<br />Then one night after a particularly desperate wish for a hero to save the day, Cassie opens the door to find a real life Cowboy Charlie standing on her doorstep complete with hat and spurs. Stunned at his resemblance to her fantasy hero, it still takes a bit of time and charm for Charlie to convince her of his authenticity. As they spend time together, they find themselves increasingly drawn together emotionally as well. Charlie struggles to find the solution to fill Cassie's dreams, but he worries about what will happen to him afterward. <br />Author Diane Pershing achieves an amazingly convincing fantasy come to life tale of romance and happily-ever-after endings with CASSIE'S COWBOY. Perishing gathers all the elements of the traditional fairy tale, including the widowed mother about to loose her home to foreclosure, a touch of magic, and a wish. This result is fantasy come true for Cassie, but true love and commitment arrive with an unexpected twist that left this reviewer first with tears of sadness then tears of joy. This whimsical and beautiful tale reveals Pershing's mastery of storytelling and touching characterization. CASSIE'S COWBOY earns the Winner of the WordWeaving Award of Excellence with flair.	2002-04-16
1577988:US	49693975	R1WMMK2MPB7IKD	1893896722	800572939	Gryphon's Quest	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Myth and mystery -- Very highly recommended	When a protection spells goes wrong at birth, Gryphon O'Connor spends his life as an outcast. The only one of his kind, he uncontrollably alternates between a human form and that of a gryphon until Shaula Gallagher, Sorceress of the Ancients, lends her aid. In return for his service, she helps Gryphon control his transformations. Though he tires of being used, Gryphon accepts another task; this one could mean the salvation of his Order as well as those on the Outside. He must retrieve rune stones with unspeakable power before their use can be discovered and horror unleashed on Earth.<br />Acquisition assistant Heather Green loves antiquities, and especially Irish artifacts. Studying the artifacts of her heritage is like stepping into \\"another world of magic, myth, and mystery.\\" But she never expects to confront myth in person, especially in such a sexy babe magnet as Gryphon. She initially does not believe his story of the runes, but when someone is murdered at the museum, she has no one else to believe. But if Gryphon reveals the truth of his identity, he brings certain death to Heather. <br />The first of the series TALES OF THE ORDER, GRYPHON'S QUEST will delight paranormal romance lovers. Candace Sams creates a world of myth and mystery that lies concealed within our own mundane existence, unsuspected and carefully guarded. Heather is a woman of remarkable strength concealed beneath a deceptively mundane exterior. Gryhon is a man isolated and alone, even among his own people. Together they create a powerful presence and love draws them close but ancient law forbids their being together. Indeed, even knowledge of Gryphon's true form threatens Heather's existence. A strong plot revolving around the missing runes gives the novel a fast paced story readers will not be able to put down. Destined for the keeper shelf, GRYPHON'S QUEST comes very highly recommended.	2002-04-16
1581297:US	49693975	RROYLYMIZAVK1	0759629080	720456538	Unlock Your Heart	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent! Very highly recommended	Author Jane Ellen Davis brings 20 years of experience in the personal growth arena to UNLOCK YOUR HEART. Based on the workshops and private sessions she offers with Life Choreography Network, Davis shows readers how to focus on creating lives rich in purpose. In this workbook of study and reflection, Davis provides motivation, enlightenment, and reinforcement of personal values.<br />We all have unique qualities and talents, but the busyness of our lives typically blocks discovering where those abilities lie. Davis shows readers how to learn to appreciate ourselves, to recognize our gifts, and to utilize them to the fullest. Her seven-step plan provides guidance without preaching, allowing readers to reach their own personal conclusions. Specific exercises and examples lead readers through self-discovery, uncovering the possibilities and setting goals never before realized. An excellent resource, UNLOCK YOUR HEART comes very highly recommended.	2002-04-13
1582692:US	49693975	R38CYOYNJU5ZKB	0373272146	392581915	Cassidy Harte And The Comeback Kid (Outlaw Hartes) (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Second chances -- Very highly recommended	The Hartes of the Diamond Harte ranch, consisting of two brothers and a sister, will find love in the miniseries Outlaw Hartes. Their father was a descendant of Matt Warner, one of the original members of Butch Cassidy's gang, and was so enamored with outlaws that he named his children after them: Matthew Warner Harte, Jesse James Harte and Cassidy Harte. CASSIDY HEARTE AND THE COMEBACK KID proves that time and distance have no effect hearts destined to be together.<br />Ten years ago Cassidy Harte's soul mate disappeared without a word only a week before their wedding. Everyone believes that Zach Slater left with another woman - the wife of Cassidy's brother. Over the intervening years, Cassidy buried herself in the role of surrogate mother to her baby niece while living with her brother. Now both her brothers have married, and her baby niece has a new stepsister and stepmother. Suddenly Cassidy finds herself cast adrift and without purpose. So she accepts an opportunity to put her remarkable culinary skills to work at a neighboring resort. Little does she suspect that Zach, the cowboy drifter she wanted to marry, is a wealthy business entrepreneur who has just purchased the ranch where she works.<br />When he left Cassidy ten years ago, Zach left his heart behind. But it is doubtful that his subsequent transformation will be enough to convince either Cassidy or her brothers of his sincere intentions. He only hopes that beneath the hard, angry exterior still lies the one person in the world who had once believed him worthy to love. Desperate for an opportunity to at least spend time with Cassidy, Zach offers her five thousand dollars to stay on at the resort for another month. Now he must find a way to regain Cassidy's trust if he wishes to touch her heart. Unfortunately, the past has never been resolved and may very well rear its ugly head once again. Leaving again would be so much easier, for both of them, but his heart just won't listen.<br />Author RaeAnne Thayne provides a powerful conclusion to her Outlaw Hartes miniseries with CASSIDY HEARTE AND THE COMEBACK KID. There is something especially endearing about two hearts torn apart by circumstance reunited by destiny. The maturation of Cassidy and Zach during their years apart makes taking chances harder and the rewards extraordinary. Indeed, Cassidy's understandable reticence and Zach's conviction that they belong together is both credible and touching. Further, Zach's motivation for leaving lends the plot strength and believability. Once again favorite characters from the previous two books of the series put in appropriate appearances, providing updates with intrusiveness. Indeed, I almost regret finishing this novel as the vividness of the characterizations through all three novels makes them seem like old friends who have come to live in my own heart. CASSIDY HARTE AND THE COMEBACK KID comes very highly recommended.	2002-04-12
1583013:US	49693975	R2F25XI10MBWZQ	0373710542	685281051	The Agent (Harlequin Superromance No. 1054)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A plot that could be torn from contemporary headlines	When Meg Afferton's husband fails to return after delivering his seminar at the Given Institute, she immediately suspects the worst. As their gourmet dinner lies in the saucepan uneaten, her news of her pregnancy untold, Meg phones friends and coworkers desperate for news. Howie is not the kind of man to be late without calling and Meg knows that something has happened. So does agent Mark Fielder of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, a covert branch of the Defense Department. Indeed, the missing bioscientist's activities have already drawn his attention several times with an appearance of living beyond a biotechnologist researcher's means.<br />As the strain wears on Meg, Mark arrives claiming to represent the company that funds Howie's research. He deftly conceals his government affiliations, moving in with Meg to offer support and protection until her husband can be located. Soon Meg finds herself fearing both the known and the unknown. She does not reveal to anyone her dissatisfaction with her marriage, or her interrupted plan to reveal her pregnancy to her husband. But as long days and weeks drag by, and fear of kidnapping gives way to suspicions of crimes much worse, Meg will have to make decisions for herself and the child she carries. While her fantasies weave dreams of the man sharing her home, reality does not appear nearly so promising. <br />Once again writing duo Lynn Erickson vivaciously captures the flavor and scenery of Aspen, Colorado in THE AGENT. Deception, disillusionment, and new beginnings abound for Meg Afferton and agent Mark Fielder as they unravel the truth behind Meg's husband's disappearance, and walk the path that can lead to betrayal or love. Meg's pregnancy makes her sympathetic character as she struggles to take control of her life. Mark is a difficult hero to love, as he keeps emotion at a careful distance, yet his cheerful determination to succeed in the kitchen or with Meg's recalcitrant brother also makes him surprisingly endearing. With a story that could be torn from contemporary headlines, THE AGENT results in a gripping read that comes highly recommended.	2002-04-11
1583123:US	49693975	R2LOGS33EEPDE5	1586970712	631396884	Feather on the Wind	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fascinating time travel romance - Recommended	Archaeologist Raina Cotterell longs to understand the Mayans that she studies. The descendants inhabiting the area surrounding the archaeology site only whet her appetite and encourage her dreams of finding a discovery that can answer her questions. Even the daily power struggles with fellow archaeologist Burke O'Neill cannot dampen her enthusiasm for gaining insight into the mysteries of the past. <br />Burke bears an uncanny resemblance to the Mayans they study, but his irritating self-importance negates any attraction Raina might else wise have felt. Then on the night of the autumnal equinox, Raina uncovers a capstone that leads to a passage ending in another time. Accompanied by Burke and two other members of their team, Raina unwittingly intrudes on a ceremony to select a bride for the Mayan prince, Al-Mon. <br />Al-Mon exists for the sole purpose of leading his people and bearing heirs for the future. Despite his dedication to his duty, he longs for a woman who would love him. When the golden hair woman appears, he believes her to be a gift of the gods. As the irritating Burke puts himself in danger with his overbearing and irritating ways, Raina eventually agrees to marry Al-Mon to save her colleague's life. Her growing feelings for Al-Mon are tempered, however, with the knowledge that when the spring equinox arrives, she must depart. <br />Author Catherine Snodgrass pens a fascinating romance in FEATHER ON THE WIND. The intricately woven plot and richly textured background lend the tale fresh originality. Characterizations, however, occasionally fall flat, especially with the sharp and sarcastic dialogue that so frequently surrounds Burke. Indeed, Burke's sudden character change at the end of the novel is rather unbelievable after he has so vividly displayed his character flaws. Nevertheless, the blossoming romance between Al-Mon and Raina more than compensates the novel's weaknesses, demonstrating a creative flair that holds great promise for this talentedauthor. FEATHER ON THE WIND comes recommended.	2002-04-11
1584092:US	49693975	RU70XEIR8YEXP	0373710518	368373006	The Family Doctor: Emergency! (Harlequin Superromance No. 1051)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Challenging family dynamics -- Highly recommended	An unexpected mix of error lands chief of staff Dr. Tony O'Connor a bed in ICU. From there, he gains a new perspective of the operation of St. Joseph's Hospital in Vancouver. His imperious tone and demands for information meet with little response as he finds himself waiting his turn over the following days. Suddenly Tony's opinion of patient advocate Kate Lewis shifts and rather than wanting her position eliminated, he finds himself in need of her skills. <br />Kate initially feels little sympathy for Tony as she still nurses feelings of betrayal and anger following his publicly stated opinion regarding her job. But with his new perspective from a hospital bed, Tony suddenly becomes far more human - and appealing. Despite their growing attraction, however, Tony and Kate will confront tremendous challenges to their growing relationship both on the floors of St. Joe's and from their demanding family responsibilities.<br />Author Bobby Hutchinson deftly captures the delicate family dynamics that makes family both a blessing and a curse in THE FAMILY DOCTOR. Tony's family still nurses the scars of his father's departure many years ago, and the tangled issues of forgiveness and healing. As he struggles with his family relationships, Tony also finds himself challenged by Katie's living arrangement with her ex-husband and stepdaughter, which seems entirely too domestic for his comfort. Further, Katie's choose to keep the daughter of her heart close following her divorce necessitates a sacrifice of her personal life. Now she must meet the challenge of balancing the possibility of a future with the losses of the past. THE FAMILY DOCTOR comes highly recommended.	2002-04-11
1588045:US	49693975	R15N0V6JO253QW	0373710550	565387274	Fleet Hospital: In Uniform (Harlequin Superromance No. 1055)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fascinating characters! Highly recommended	At thirty-three, Lori Sepank has grown tired of living in cheap hotels or out of the back of her car. Indeed, hunger and a safe place to sleep are prime motivators for being at Camp Pendleton as an invited civilian guest assigned to cover a simulated emergency. A freelance reporter, Lori spends almost the last of her money for ID that will get her on a marine base as an Associated Reporter. She hopes that the reputable press will pick up this story, saving her from the necessity of the stories of ill repute that she's been penning. Simulation quickly turns into reality, however, when Lori discovers a murder.<br />Captain Michael McLowery vowed years ago to honor his uniform and uphold his duty. The tragic death of his sister and his mother still haunts him, and when his cousin is found murdered on his base, Michael finds himself confronting old ghosts as well as new pain. Further, the base chaplain is the very person Michael blames for the death of his sister and mother. While he quickly suspects Lori's claim to of being an AP reporter, he does not disregard her ability to handle difficult people and situations with finesse. While she's a bit too street-wise for his liking, Lori has the insight to catch things Michael might miss. He does not realize one of those things might be his heart.<br />Author Anne Marie Duquette exercises her creative license in FLEET HOSPITAL to great effect. Granted, a military investigation would never include an unauthorized civilian who lies about her credentials; nevertheless, Duquette puts such a marvelous spin on this story that most readers will overlook her stretch of plausibility. Further, these characterizations are absolutely delightful. Lori blatantly breaks the stereotype for most heroines with her East St. Louis background and second hand clothes. Her lack of social veneer makes her a survivor, despite living out of the back of her car and wearing secondhand clothes. Michael's painful motivations make him a sympathetic character as he struggles to reconcile the past and achieve healing. Secondary characters likewise sparkle, from the chaplain to the hippie stepmother, bringing the novel a touch of levity and added depth. With a hard-hitting beginning and emotional struggles that never slow, FLEET HOSPITAL is a fast paced read that truly entertains. Highly recommended.	2002-04-08
1590198:US	49693975	R2FULRLXTXDNDZ	0373710526	996024450	The Baby Gift: 9 Months Later (Harlequin Superromance No. 1052)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Strong, character driven romance -- Very highly recommended	For two months Briana Morris has known that her precious daughter has a deadly blood disease. Her best chance for recovery requires a transplant from a healthy sibling, but Briana divorced her daughter's father Josh seven years ago. Briana's gift for business and growing things ties to her the family farm while Josh's gift for photography carries him to the most dangerous and distant parts of the globe. Despite their divorce, however, neither has gotten over the passion they once shared.<br />When Briana's desperate call reaches him Russia, Josh hurries back to the states. He is shocked when Briana explains their daughter's illness, and even more so when she explains her proposed solution. In order to save their daughter's life, Briana wants another child. But not the old fashioned way. She proposes they resort to artificial insemination to assure the baby's health. While moral and ethical dilemma divide Briana and Josh, their shared love their child unites them in finding solutions, however unorthodox.<br />The contrast between a cat afraid of mice and the resilient spirit of a terminally ill child lends THE BABY GIFT a delightful balance. Rather than resigning herself to fear and loss, mother Briana boldly pursues answers that will give her child life, regardless of the risk to her own heart. Burdened by overwhelming responsibilities to her family, she never yields her determination to do what is best for her child. Conversely, Josh confronts the ethical and moral dilemmas of saving his child with fortitude. Their compromises will touch the heart, whatever one's personal beliefs might be. While the conclusion brings healing and independence, this reader felt a bit rushed by the profound changes. Nevertheless, THE BABY GIFT is a moving tale readers will not soon forget, coming very highly recommended.	2002-04-06
1590521:US	49693975	R2RIS9A7AH8JGQ	0505524740	252862929	Aphrodite's Passion	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Exciting and witty! Very highly recommended	Superhero Hale uses his modeling career to hide right out in the open -- on romance novel covers. Despite his attraction to mortals, Hale believes mortal-Protector relationships almost never last. He flits from one liaison under the covers to another, leaving his women satisfied and not expecting commitments. But his carefree style seems to have slowed since his half-sister Zoe married a mortal. Now his invisibility gets him out of compromising situations instead of adding erotic appeal to sensual situations. His gift with women logically leads to his new assignment of retrieving Aphrodite's girdle from a mortal and turning it over to the Council of Protectors. Then he meets the very ordinary Tracy Tannin, who seems to have an extraordinary effect on this superhero's libido.<br />An animal trainer, Tracy seems to disappear on the fancy Hollywood sets. She regrets not inheriting her grandmother's charisma and sexy looks. She spends her rare free moments fantasizing about a romance cover model. Following a really rotten, no good day, she sifts through boxes of her grandmother's possessions when she discovers a gold belt. When she wears it, she suddenly goes from invisible to irresistible. Then she meets the man of her fantasies, and her life takes a sudden turn toward excitement and desirability. Unfortunately, Hale's assignment requires that he get the belt from her. Worse, little does Tracy suspect the belt's effect on others, or the danger it places her in.<br />Fans of Julie Kenner's APHRODITE'S KISS will delight in this sequel, APHRODITE'S PASSION. With a ferret that threatens to upstage superheroes and mortals alike, these characterizations will delight readers with a combination of sassy verve and humorous one liners. Favorite characters from APHRODITE'S KISS make wonderful but unobtrusive contributions, giving lending the novel updates and a sense of continuance. With plenty of plot twists and wonderfully believable characterizations, APHRODITE'S PASSION is terrific reading written by an author whose star shines over the literary sky. As each book sparkles even brighter, it will prove impossible to wait for Kenner's next book to be released. Exciting and witty, APHRODITE'S PASSION comes very highly recommended.	2002-04-06
1590743:US	49693975	RJQTSBM3WOFVU	0373790376	299131825	A Wicked Seduction (Midnight Fantasies)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Handcuffs, boldness and presumption	Ex-cop, bounty hunter Joelle Sommers thrives on the thrills of her job. She pursues missing people, especially abducted children. It salves her conscious to save children, allowing her to live with the memory of her failure to save her partner's life. Her over protective brothers try to prevent Joelle from bringing in their latest skip, but her determination wins the assignment. Joelle knows the location of Dean Colter, reputably arrested with a half a dozen vehicles headed for a chop shop. Dean will receive a lightened sentence in return for his testimony against the crime ring.<br />Three years of constant devotion to his father's business leaves Dean burnt out, questioning his purpose and motivation. His father had been a workaholic, sacrificing his family to the business. Now Dean has fallen into the same trap, with nothing but a broken engagement and more work to show for his success. He plans a vacation in a secluded retreat to rethink his life direction. As he prepares to depart, a sexy woman with handcuffs lures him into an unexpected adventure. He initially believes his best friend sent the woman to offer sensual titillation. After the handcuffs are on, Dean realizes she is serious.<br />Handcuffs, boldness and presumption lead to a fabulous adventure that will hold readers spellbound in Janelle Denison's sassy, dazzling romance A WICKED SEDUCTION. Denison has a gift for delivering steamy romance with a fresh style, snappy dialogue, and emotional complexity. The sensual interludes sizzle, leaving the characters to struggle with incredible emotional repercussions of connecting so profoundly on a physical level. Further, Joelle's struggle to reclaim her faith in herself gives her surprising vulnerability in a business that only allows the toughest to survive. Dean accommodates her struggles and his own mistaken identity with a charming attitude that makes him a wonderful hero. As a result, Denison's characters tug the reader's heartstrings in this first rate,scorching romance that comes very highly recommended.	2002-04-06
1590935:US	49693975	R25X07A6CWS31P	037371050X	353124606	A Lasting Proposal: The Shannon Sisters (Harlequin Superromance No. 1050)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A terrific series finale! Very highly recommended	Rod was addicted to extreme sports and foolish decisions. Consequently, his irresponsibility led to his death on a too quick ascent on a mountain in the Andes. Indeed, such irresponsible decision-making was characteristic of Maureen Shannon's husband. As she became the overly responsible parent to compensate, she did not realize she was loosing contact with her daughter. With Rod's death, Maureen begins to recognize the horrible distance that now separates her from her daughter. Maureen's long hours at the law firm have only exacerbated the situation. Now Holly's failing grades and bad attitude indicate a radical change is needed. So she and Emily return to Canmore, where Maureen grew up.<br />Jake Hartman needs an investor for his heli-skiing business, Grizzly Peaks. A referral leads him to Maureen who has money to invest. Although she's attracted to Jake, she believes him to be too much like her deceased husband: his life revolves around superficial ambition. He spends his days having fun and seeking thrills through dangerous sports. Her disillusionment with Rod leads Maureen want to avoid such a man again, even when she sees his sincerity, caring and intelligence. Worse, as they begin to know each other, Jake is attracted to Maureen's strength and confidence. She fears that if he suspects the weaknesses beneath the surface, then he will see a woefully inadequate wife and mother. Admittedly, as Jake begins to see her sensitivity, it attracts and repels him at the same time, leaving him in quite a conundrum. Too bad he handles it badly. <br />Author CJ Carmichael brings a fabulous conclusion to the Shannon Sisters trilogy. A LASTING PROPOSAL ties up loose ends of previous narratives, including giving sister Kelly another challenge that lends closure to her story. Additionally, Maureen's daughter becomes a delightful amateur sleuth, determined to solve the murder that introduced the series. And the sister's charming Grandmother Poppy also lends loving support to these marvelous sisters, even as she pursues her own love interest. <br />Maureen's story achieves a remarkable poignancy as she struggles with the trials of motherhood. A strikingly imperfect heroine, she confronts the mistakes of the past, learning to stop blaming Rob for the distance between herself and her daughter. As she becomes self-honest about her own role in the past, busy readers who are mothers and wives cannot help but empathize. The moment Maureen buys a scooter and learns to participate in her daughter's interests, I wanted to cheer. Likewise, Jake is an appealing hero, even as he makes the typical mistakes guys make when they don't quite know what to do with the woman they love. I wanted to shake him when I wasn't laughing at his goofy guy behavior. A LASTING PROPOSAL comes very highly recommended.	2002-04-06
1591202:US	49693975	R2CL1GHZY5BMHJ	0373710534	898602887	Into the Badlands (Harlequin Superromance No. 1053)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Ancient history and contemporary danger - Highly recommended	Paleontologist Susannah Robb makes the short list for the recently vacated position of head of dinosaur research, but her nemesis wins the position. She met Alexander Blake thirteen years ago when she was in Australia on her first quarry. Alex had been an assistant to the leader of the joint Canadian-Australian dig, and his assessment of her performance had left her with a bitter taste. Her distaste for pop paleontology, when history takes a backseat to entertainment, has continued Susannah's dislike for Alex's work. Her own dry, pedantic papers may lack his flair, but at least they give credit where credit is due.<br />No one on staff knows that the board of directors awarded Alex the position as head of research because of his background in investigating stolen artifacts. Soon Alex finds himself torn between duty and desire. Further, Alex possesses an aura of energy and strength that makes him extremely likeable to everyone but Susannah. Yet shortly after arriving at his new position, he finds himself drawn to the very woman who seems intent on brushing him off. But Alex's attempts to help Susannah are blocked at every turn, and he finds himself sorely challenged to get close to her. Worse, as long as she is one of his suspects, Alex dare not act on his attraction. <br />Author Caron Todd presents a fascinating setting for INTO THE BADLANDS. Her love of paleontology lends the novel a vivaciousness and originality that readers will appreciate. In addition, Alex comes alive with an irresistible sexiness. Susannah is a bit harder to like, however, with her extreme prickliness. Yet her genuine concern for children, to the degree that she puts her own safety on the line to rescue a boy from a sinkhole, reveals a gentler, kinder side. While their romance is slow to kindle, the ensuing fire and conflict of the second half of the novel proves to be quite engaging. An entertaining read, INTO THE BADLANDS comes highly recommended.	2002-04-06
1600809:US	49693975	R3KK7LL42ZWVS	0312288271	781225514	Lords of the White Castle	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Honor, loyalty and revenge	...P>Chadwick is a remarkably gifted storyteller. Although the book numbers more than 600 pages, it reads quickly, fascinating the reader with the medieval period. Chadwick's admitted love for medieval reenacting gives her prose the ring of authenticity that will enthralls. LORDS OF THE WHITE CASTLE is a Winner of the WordWeaving Award of Excellence.<br />Cindy Penn, Editor, WordWeaving.com	2002-03-29
1607670:US	49693975	R80V7OZ76Y87W	0967792983	970381018	Blossom Tales:  Flower Stories of Many Folk	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Whimsical -- Very highly recommended	A collection of 14 folktales from across the globe, BLOSSOM TALES relates wondrous legends about flowers. These tales relate the origin of flowers, or how and why they are used as they are. Always respectful of the culture they describe, the tales are filled with magic and whimsy. <br />Author Patricia Hruby Powell is an award-winning storyteller and community arts specialist, bringing her love of drama and storytelling to the written page in this collection that children will ask to be read again and again. This is illustrator Sarah Dillard's first children's book, but the beauty of the illustrations will leave readers hoping to see more of her marvelous talent. <br />Dragons, dwarves, soldiers and fairies bring a touch of the unexpected to BLOSSOM TALES, resulting in tales that will delight young readers with its evocative stories. Parents will enjoy the flow of the narrative that makes for perfect reading aloud before bedtime. A collection that will delight flower lovers of all ages, BLOSSOM TALES comes very highly recommended.	2002-03-24
1607803:US	49693975	RRLZ13MIVKDON	1551668963	908815423	Used - To - Be Lovers	Books	4	14	17	N	N	Delightful second chances -- Highly recommended	Sharon Harrison and Tony Morelli married after a whirlwind courtship. Sharon took Tony's infant daughter to her heart, raising the child as her own just like the son they also share. Unfortunately, Tony did not take the time to mourn his first wife properly before beginning their relationship, a fact that seemed to overshadow their years together. Eleven years and a divorce later, only joint custody keeps them bound in an unorthodox custody arrangement that insures close contact. <br />Currently, Tony heads a thriving family owned construction firm. His success makes Sharon feel the slow growth of her lingerie store Teddy Bares even more. Tony had never understood her need for independence and the success of her store. Sharon never acknowledged the difficulty his first wife's shadow presented. Despite their divorce, these emotional issues and more still overshadow their lives as they work together to raise their children. <br />Linda Lael Miller pens a beautiful tale of second chances in USED-TO-BE LOVERS. Miller has a gift for creating a powerful, character driven romance complete with wonderful children and well-meaning family members. USED-TO-BE LOVERS explores the delicate balance of love and communication, and what happens when communication fails. With a divorce and child-rearing issues creating turmoil, their struggles to balance their emotions and their desires becomes quite entertaining as they confront daily living issues such as spoiled shopping trips and broken plumbing. While Sharon and Tony obviously still love one another, their inability to risk vulnerability allows them both to make foolish choices. A tender exploration of rekindled love, USED-TO-LOVERS comes highly recommended.	2002-03-24
1608834:US	49693975	RL2S8VSLPBVYP	140102999X	745193966	A Walk in Harm's Way	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An intense, gripping novel -- Very highly recommended	A killer stalks the innocent, leaving a note left in the victim's hand that reads, \\"There are those who deserve to die.\\" The obtuse note leaves investigators baffled, especially when the killer links the second killer to the name of the detective on the first case. But killer's second victim coincidentally is the brother of retired government agent Maxwell Harmon, nicknamed Harm, drawing him out of his peaceful retirement in Costa Rica.<br />For years Bobby Mathison's father gave the warning they were \\"walking in harm's way,\\" as he would begin another abusive spree. Following his mother's death, Bobby and his younger sister were left in their father's care even as his alcoholism worsened. When he was fourteen, Bobby kills his sister and then disappears, assuming a new identity. As his story unfolds, Bobby becomes a surprisingly sympathetic character with a dangerous political agenda. But he's walking in harm's way once again when he directly challenges \\"Harm\\" in this deadly game.<br />Charles Coker brings an insider's knowledge to A WALK IN HARM'S WAY, making it a highly detailed, riveting novel. Coker's background as an Intelligence Analyst for the National Security Agency and his current career as a licensed private investigator enriches this novel as he carefully describes the investigation and motivation of this serial killer. While the narrative describes such gruesome details as autopsies and crime scenes, the humane tone, especially of the Coroner, lightens the reading. As the killer's life unfolds in chapters interspersing the killings and investigation, the reader comes to understand how such a demon is created, admiring his survival of horrible circumstances despite his cruel killing spree. An intense, gripping novel, A WALK IN HARM'S WAY comes very highly recommended.	2002-03-23
1610809:US	49693975	R1AWFZSO5U7GRM	0821772147	22055100	What She Doesn't Know (Zebra Romantic Suspense)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A lively read! Very highly recommended	Nineteen years ago, the Belle Rose massacre deprived a young girl of her mother, her aunt, a family friend, and left her near death. The deaths were called a double murder and suicide by law enforcement anxious to close a case that divided the entire town along racial lines. In the aftermath, fourteen year old Jolie Royale separated herself from her once beloved father because of her tortured memories of his adultery, which she witnessed just before stumbling upon the bodies of her family. His subsequent marriage less than a year after her mother's death led to Jolie going off to an expensive boarding school and refusing to ever visit home. Indeed, after nineteen years she only returns to her hometown for her father's funeral. She stays, following the reading of the will, only to exact her revenge on her stepmother Georgette, stepbrother Max, and half sister Mallory.<br />Max Devereaux predicts trouble if Jolie comes home. When her presence puts pressure on his mother and sister, Max steps into the role of the proper southern gentleman caring for his women folk. But he never allows their attitudes to affect his growing attraction for Jolie. When the will names Jolie the inheritor of the family home Belle Rose, with a provision to allow Georgette and her children to remain in residence, Max becomes the peacemaker. It does not take him long, however, to become sympathetic to Jolie's determination to reopen the Belle Rose massacre case, or to rush to protect her when her life becomes threatened. Too bad she is adamantly opposed to exploring the growing passion between them.<br />Beverly Barton's second romantic suspense novel for Zebra explores the tortured past of characters with deep psychological wounds in WHAT SHE DOESN'T KNOW. Demonstrating her characteristic flair, Barton's characters struggle with the past, with their well-deserved resentment, and with the power of love. Even when small developments are anticipated, Barton puts an unexpected spin on them. Secondary characters each conceal secrets, and their combined hidden motivations are incredibly intriguing. Further, Jolie's transformation from revengeful to truth seeking is especially convincing, and lends the novel terrific depth. Her determination to fight her feelings for Max likewise lends the novel a nice tension, especially since he is equally determined to overcome her reticence. Further, the unexpected plot developments move the story along a terrific clip, deftly holding the reader's interest. Readers who enjoy well developed characters and intrigue penned with a lively hand will be quite satisfied. Very highly recommended.	2002-03-21
1612022:US	49693975	R20NRE8SC9UM3J	0671042491	504554345	Springwater Wedding	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Beautifully written -- Very highly recommended	Both Maggie McCaffey and J.T. Wainright return to Springwater, Montana to find healing and new beginnings in Linda Lael Miller's SPRINGWATER WEDDING. Maggie descends from founders June-Bug and Jacob McCaffrey. Leaving behind an ex-husband and broken dreams, Maggie plans to renovate a 19th century stagecoach inn and turn it into a bed and breakfast. She does not anticipate the love of her life, J.T., returning to Springwater at the same time she does. Despite his overtures, she desperately tries to resist him and her well-meaning, matchmaking friends.<br />J.T. leaves behind the death of his partner, a gunshot wound, and a divorce to become a rancher. His attempts to make the family ranch a paying proposition are threatened, however, by someone poisoning neighboring herds, cattle rustlers, and murder. His attempts at rekindling a romance with Maggie seem a bit more productive, but other issues seem to keep him frequently sidetracked. Indeed, while aiding local law enforcement, J.T. soon learns that the current crime spree leads to the town's past and includes his father's murder.<br />SPRINGWATER WEDDING is the seventh book in the Springwater series, providing a contemporary conclusion. The hero and heroine are descendants of the original cast, thereby providing the novel with deep roots. But do not let that dissuade new readers who want to read SPRINGWATER WEDDING as a standalone. The novel works beautifully as an independent read as well, though readers may quickly find their way to the bookstore for the remaining books of the series. Author Linda Lael Miller excels at creating novels with a strong sense of community and ancestry, as SPRINGWATER WEDDING dazzlingly demonstrates. Further, Jacob is the wounded hero at his best, with challenges and weaknesses that make him immensely appealing. Maggie years for community and family, yet fears the risk such goals require. While the reader knows that, of course, they will find up together, the journey is both pleasurableand endearing, especially with the remarkable secondary characters give the novel an added richness. Very highly recommended.	2002-03-20
1615630:US	49693975	R209111W6Z1S35	1564743861	293333429	Never Fade Away	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	On the Cal State campus, administrators in the Department of English use the English as a Second Language program to boost class enrollment and dollars in their coffers while setting impossibly high standards for their students. Consequently, most ESL students flunk out after two tries, loosing their opportunity to pursue their studies at the university despite their grades in other classes. Only one professor takes a stand against such a practice. Professor John Goddard feels a profound connection to his ESL students following his service in the Vietnam War, from which he still bears deep emotional scars.<br />In counterpoint to Goddard's journal written in first person, Tina Le also records a journal written in first person. Her English is not perfect as she struggles to learn proper punctuation and verb tenses, but her emotions are powerfully portrayed. She describes her efforts to understand her ESL assignments and to fill her teacher's expectations even when directions seem confusing and ill explained. As her narrative unfolds, we come to understand how this Vietnamese student came to the United States and the wretched struggles she has endured. Despite imperfect English, Tina has a gift for storytelling, which her teacher recognizes and rewards. <br />It is an unfortunate fact that many academic decisions are determined by politics and money. Certainly my own collegiate experience bears first hand testimony to \\"gate classes\\" designed to wash out many freshmen with a specific academic weakness even while they excel in every other subject area. Despite the unfairness of such practice, it persists on many college campuses, but never have I seen a story reveal this travesty with such a compelling narrative as William Hart's NEVER FADE AWAY. This storyline, combined with the evocative background of two souls badly wounded by their experiences in Vietnam, results in one of the most powerful tale of our time. Richly created and brilliantly executed, with each voice carefully crafted, NEVER FADE AWAY will linger in the reader's memory long after the last page is turned. NEVER FADE AWAY is a winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-03-18
1615780:US	49693975	RQIIGNMYKTB8U	0373710445	986887111	A Convenient Proposal: The Shannon Sisters (Harlequin Superromance No. 1044)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Powerful! -- Very highly recommended	In one horrible instant, RCMP officer Kelly Shannon chooses between the life of Danny Mizzoni and the life of her sister. She shoots Danny, husband and father of two young children, as he holds a gun to her beloved sister's head. Subsequently, officers learned that Danny carried an illegal handgun, and thousands of dollars of illegal drugs were found on the property. Kelly knows that she had fulfilled her duty as an officer of the law. Nevertheless, in the aftermath, Kelly suffers deeply for the moral decision she made in taking a life. Adamant that she will not return to police work, Kelly finds herself cast adrift in guilt and hopeless concern for Danny's fatherless children. Day after day she parks nearby, watching the children who do not receive adequate care from their alcoholic mother.<br />The children's uncle, Mick Mizzoni, finds Kelly watching the tiny bungalow that houses the fatherless children. They often work together when he comes to her for police information for the small town newspaper where he is an editor. Kelly has always half hoped he would ask her out, but Mick's coolness makes her think that she is not his type. Now with his brother's death between them, it is only the lives of the two children that bring them together. Kelly is convinced that the children need more than a busy uncle and an alcoholic mother. Mick does what he can, doing laundry, ensuring that the children eat, but with their mother drinking and pregnant, there's a limit to how effective his help can be. Mick needs a wife to help with the children, and he needs to bring the children home with him. Then Kelly convinces him that she can be the wife he needs. It couldn't make for a more explosive situation.<br />CJ Carmichael tackles an emotion-laden plot with flair in A CONVIENENT PROPOSAL. Child custody issues, alcoholism, and death bring this unlikely hero and heroine together in a marriage of convenience that quickly gives way to love. The plot is impressively convincing, given that the Kelly shoots Danny, falls in love with his brother, and wants to mother his children. The alcoholic Sharon is likewise a remarkable character, falling into the self-pity and destructive behaviors common to a practicing alcoholic; yet Carmichael's tone maintains an evenhanded compassion even as Sharon's behavior spirals into negligent behavior. Mick is a terrific hero, cleaning kitchens and washing clothes without complaint. His strong desire to give Danny's children what he never had - clean clothes, regular bedtimes and mealtimes - makes him vulnerable and strong all at the same time. Indeed, the masterful characterizations in A CONVIENENT PROPOSAL make this one a keeper. Very highly recommended.	2002-03-18
1618361:US	49693975	R2HRHBH3CRMLG5	0373710445	986887111	A Convenient Proposal: The Shannon Sisters (Harlequin Superromance No. 1044)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Powerful! -- Very highly recommended	In one horrible instant, RCMP officer Kelly Shannon chooses between the life of Danny Mizzoni and the life of her sister. She shoots Danny, husband and father of two young children, as he holds a gun to her beloved sister's head. Subsequently, officers learned that Danny carried an illegal handgun, and thousands of dollars of illegal drugs were found on the property. Kelly knows that she had fulfilled her duty as an officer of the law. Nevertheless, in the aftermath, Kelly suffers deeply for the moral decision she made in taking a life. Adamant that she will not return to police work, Kelly finds herself cast adrift in guilt and hopeless concern for Danny's fatherless children. Day after day she parks nearby, watching the children who do not receive adequate care from their alcoholic mother.<br />The children's uncle, Mick Mizzoni, finds Kelly watching the tiny bungalow that houses the fatherless children. They often work together when he comes to her for police information for the small town newspaper where he is an editor. Kelly has always half hoped he would ask her out, but Mick's coolness makes her think that she is not his type. Now with his brother's death between them, it is only the lives of the two children that bring them together. Kelly is convinced that the children need more than a busy uncle and an alcoholic mother. Mick does what he can, doing laundry, ensuring that the children eat, but with their mother drinking and pregnant, there's a limit to how effective his help can be. Mick needs a wife to help with the children, and he needs to bring the children home with him. Then Kelly convinces him that she can be the wife he needs. It couldn't make for a more explosive situation.<br />CJ Carmichael tackles an emotion-laden plot with flair in A CONVIENENT PROPOSAL. Child custody issues, alcoholism, and death bring this unlikely hero and heroine together in a marriage of convenience that quickly gives way to love. The plot is impressively convincing, given that the Kelly shoots Danny, falls in love with his brother, and wants to mother his children. The alcoholic Sharon is likewise a remarkable character, falling into the self-pity and destructive behaviors common to a practicing alcoholic; yet Carmichael's tone maintains an evenhanded compassion even as Sharon's behavior spirals into negligent behavior. Mick is a terrific hero, cleaning kitchens and washing clothes without complaint. His strong desire to give Danny's children what he never had - clean clothes, regular bedtimes and mealtimes - makes him vulnerable and strong all at the same time. Indeed, the masterful characterizations in A CONVIENENT PROPOSAL make this one a keeper. Very highly recommended.	2002-03-15
1618898:US	49693975	R1MA1997DNOJSM	0738806358	404251394	Eat First -- You Don't Know What They'll Give You	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Very highly recommended	As the first woman lawyer in the General Counsel's office at the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 1965, Sonia Pressman Fuentes always intended to write her life story. The tone and direction of her tale, however, shifted dramatically one day over coffee with another author/editor. Rather than the scholarly tome originally envisioned, the novel evolved to a humorous, personal account of Fuentes' family, her life, and her place in history. <br />Beginning with an account of her father running away from marriage, EAT FIRST follows her parents' marriage through the difficult decision to leave their home and business in Germany as the events leading to the Holocaust began to unfold. Eventually coming to the United States, Fuentes describes herself as a \\"bespectacled, asthmatic child of older, immigrant parents in a new country.\\" Humor became a coping device - a gift she has honed to a fine edge, providing the novel a light, entertaining tone that carries throughout the pages. Wonderful vignettes such as how her father earned a B+ for saving her sewing disaster and her mother's love of night school, but sacrificing that love for her family, result in a strong, compelling narrative. <br />Following her high school graduation, Fuentes earns a scholarship to Cornell, despite her father's opinion that too much education can be a bad thing. As her family pressured for marriage and children, Fuentes found her way to law school instead. Graduation with a law degree did not lead to a number of folks offering work, however, and the next few years provided the impetus for Fuentes' involvement in women's issues. At the age of forty-two she finally fulfilled her family's dreams for her to be married, soon having a child as well. A later divorce in no way seems to have negated her family's approval to finally have her married, and her determination to have a child will keep readers entertained. <br />Author Sonia Pressman Fuentes presents her memoirs in EAT FIRST--YOU DON'TKNOW WHAT THEY'LL GIVE YOU, The Adventures of an Immigrant Family and Their Feminist Daughter. With an intense awareness of her place in history, in terms of family relations, career, and self-realization, Fuentes reveals her immigrant background, her involvement in Women's Rights, and her love for family. A woman who blazes her own unorthodox path, this remarkably self-honest memoir is a must read for all. Her extraordinary gift for an enthralling narrative and lively personality brings the text a life and vibrancy that will live in the reader's memory long after the last page is turned. EAT FIRST belongs on everyone's keeper shelf.	2002-03-15
1621956:US	49693975	R33PG7E78AKSD8	0373259697	873801127	RISKY MOVES	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Sizzling! Very highly recommended	Everyone knows Julia Knox keeps both feet planted firmly on the ground. Friends describe her as safe, settled, and careful. She owns her own business and her own home with a hefty retirement and savings plan. In fact, Julia is just too cautious to commit herself to someone like dangerous, adrenaline hooked Adam Brody. So despite their one wild night of passion when she replaced caution with impetuous sensuality, Julia has lived by the rules. But now, after ten years, Julia is tired of playing it safe. She certainly means her request that Adam teach her skydiving and rock climbing.<br />Together they are wild and brazen. But even after ten years Adam feels incredibly guilty for the one night they spent together. That night Julia had intended to seduce his brother, and got the second brother instead. Adam has been running from the memory of their passion ever since. He cannot help believing that it is better for him to stay away from Julia than to pursue the possibilities with what would likely be disastrous results. Besides, for Adam to have a relationship with Julia, there is someone who deserves the truth of his actions ten years ago. And he does not know how to tell his brother that he cheated with his girlfriend.<br />Author Carrie Alexander once again demonstrates her consummate skill for warm, engaging characters combined with sizzling sexual tension in RISKY MOVES. A spin-off from SMOOTH MOVES, RISKY MOVES unobtrusively returns favorite characters while furthering the plot of past secrets and current revelations. Alexander especially traverses the delicate ground of infidelity with skill and grace. RISKY MOVES is a fast paced read, vividly realized and marvelously seductive. Indeed, RISKY MOVES goes to the keeper shelf! Very highly recommended.	2002-03-13
1623625:US	49693975	RA4DA2OKLXDGH	0800757769	693649092	Whirlpool (Julesburg Mystery Series #1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Crisis, spirituality and complexity	Arson investigator Ryan Harrison recalls his childhood friend Stefanie Canfield's glint of mischief and rebelliousness with affection. But that look has been replaced by shadows and disillusionment because she has lost faith in her God, in marriage, and in herself. He returns to the small town of Julesburg to investigate the suspicious burning of the town's plywood mill. Proving arson would earn him a nice promotion. Ryan had no idea that his childhood friend in an equal partner in the company. Now duty must come before friendship, even if the investigation opens a chasm between them that friendship can scarcely span.<br />Stefanie's marriage resembled a business merger more than it did a union of hearts. Hunter's initial displays of interest stunned the \\"Porky Princess\\", despite her subsequent weight loss. Now the owner of the Fit `n' Fun health club, this svelte divorcee still bears the scars of her marriage, her husband's cheating with Trish, and her rejection in favor of the \\"other woman\\". With her ex-husband's carefully constructed alibi in place, suspicion falls on Stefanie when arson is proven at the plywood mill. The financial problems surrounding the mill provide adequate motivation, and a lack of an alibi provides opportunity.<br />Stephanie endears the false accusations of arson even when the insurance investigator turns out to be her childhood friend. But when her nemesis appears in public wearing her mother's necklace, Stefanie reacts. Unfortunately, stress brings about blackouts and Stephanie does not remember trying to snatch the necklace from Trish's neck. Witnesses recall every detail, however, when Trish later turns up dead. Stephanie believes she left Trish alive, but with her blackout episodes, even she is not absolutely certain of her innocence.<br />Stephanie's struggle to prove her innocence and to recover her spiritual beliefs provides a refreshingly human heroine in WHIRLPOOL, the first of The Julesburg Mysteries series. Stephanie could havetoo easily fallen into the trap of martyrdom given her ex-husband's treatment and the loss of her mother to cancer. Instead, she proves herself to be tenacious yet spiritually disillusioned, strong yet capable of foolish choices. With maturity and insight, Stephanie confronts the challenges of struggling with injustice and self-doubt. Moreover, author Lorena McCourtney includes inspirational touches and spiritual struggles without a heavy hand that could detract from the narrative; instead, the inspirational passages move the plot along as well as deepen the characterizations. WHIRLPOOL is a satisfying read appropriate for inspirational as well as mainstream readers, coming very highly recommended.	2002-03-11
1623826:US	49693975	RMJESGL1XUPMC	0373244401	137131331	The Pregnant Bride (Silhouette Special Edition, No. 1440)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Strong passions -- Highly recommended	Meggie Thorton's tumultuous life struggles against the flow of the morally judgmental town of Kane's Crossing. As a child, with her wild hair and gypsy skirts, Meggie had been nicknamed the town witch. Now an unwed mother who refuses to reveal the baby's paternity, Meggie defies the collective judgmental eyes. When Nick Cassidy enters her bakery looking for his childhood nemesis Chad Spencer, Meggie does not initially recognize her childhood friend.<br />As fourteen year old boy, Nick Cassidy was labeled a criminal and thrown out of town for bombing Chaney's drugstore. He hates to think of his childhood friend as Chad's castoff. Now a successful entrepreneur Nick returns to Kane's Crossing seeking to clear his name. Chad had set the bomb then accused Nick, and no one would believe the bad-boy foster child over the town's golden child. But the site of Meggie makes him long for the memory of summer rain and hidden caves rather than retribution. What better way to have both than to marry Meggie, who is pregnant with Chad's child?<br />Author Crystal Green pens a poignant tale of redemption and healing in THE PREGNANT BRIDE. Although the pacing is a bit uneven, the rich characterizations provide delightful reading. As Nick's bitterness gives way to softer emotions, the emotional complexities reveal a tangle of motivations. Meggie likewise needs the healing and acceptance Nick craves, uniting them and setting them crossways at the same time. In addition, the dash of whimsy provided by Meggie's baking skills, eat a baby cake and you are pregnant within a month, for example, adds a special taste to the brew. THE PREGNANT BRIDE comes recommended.	2002-03-11
1624284:US	49693975	RAQQL09I3RJMW	0373169043	726999188	Cinderella's Shoe Size	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Needs a tighter focus	Cindy Rawlins works two jobs, selling shoes during the day and serving for a catering service in the evenings, hoping to save enough money to put herself through veterinary school. She recently borrowed a pair of three-hundred-dollar pumps from the store for a wheelchair bound friend, and lost the left one. The cost of the shoe equals two weeks' salary, and Cindy cannot afford to replace it. So she places a personal ad in the paper for a red pump, size eight narrow. Although many responses arrive, none have found the missing shoe.<br />In addition to her weakness for aiding wounded friends, Cindy also has a perchance for lending aid to wounded animals. Unfortunately, landlords frown upon her endeavors and frequently demand that she move. Now that she has been evicted again, she reluctantly accepts a friend's offer to help her move. Her friend brings along a burly guy with a truck - one Parker Davis, to whom she recently sold two pairs of shoes. With an instant attraction between them, Parker had been eager to see Cindy again. But Parker has his job cut out to convince Cindy that it is okay to need someone.<br />Perky dialogue and sympathy to the working class make CINDERELLA'S SHOE SIZE a dynamic read. While she attempts to cover a bit too much territory in this multifaceted tale, author Kathleen Webb does avoid the typical clichés that often weaken a modern fairy tale. Comedic moments, unexpected opportunity and the clash of opposites keep the plot interesting as Cindy learns to accept Parker's help. Parker is everything that hero should be, wealthy, sexy and charismatic, but he is also realistic, seeing beneath Cindy's desperate need for independence and recognizing her hidden vulnerabilities. Complete with a happily-ever-after romance lovers expect in a modern fairy tale come true, CINDERELLA'S SHOE SIZE comes recommended.	2002-03-11
1624443:US	49693975	R38UHQQDYZ1VV4	0373271905	923899274	Honky-Tonk Cinderella: How to Marry a Monarch (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1120)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Fresh and original! Very highly recommended	A night of magic brought a stranger and truck-stop waitress Luanne Evans together. He thought he had been careful, but he unknowingly left Luanne pregnant. Without knowing his true identity, Luanne could not contact her baby's father, so she married her \\"best friend,\\" Jeff Henderson. Jeff raised Luanne's son Chase as his own and pursued a career racing cars. A year and half after the stranger left Luanne behind, he returned to the states to put a racing team together. Luanne's stranger, Prince Alek of Carpathia, was stunned to learn his future driver Jeff had married Luanne and they had a son. Ten years later Jeff dies in a tragic racetrack accident, leaving Luanne seven months pregnant.<br />Chase blames his mother and Alek for his father's death, as grief replaces the child's once sunny disposition. Alek persuades Luanne and Chase to accompany him home to Carpathia for two weeks. After all, the child is heir to his fortune and his throne. Chase quickly adjusts to life in the palace. Meanwhile, Alek's grandmother encourages him to marry Luanne and publicly declare Chase his heir. But complications with her pregnancy lead Luanne to return to the United States.<br />Author Karen Templeton brings a fresh perspective to this Cinderella tale in HONKY-TONK CINDERELLA. Her characters are believable, flawed and human with the expected misgivings and insecurities that make them sympathetic. Rather than the classically beautiful Cinderella beneath the grime and overwork, Laura is pregnant, unwieldy, and resentful. Conversely, Alek transforms over the years, forsaking his Peter Pan/playboy existence for responsibilities and maturity. Further, as in PLAIN-JANE PRINCESS, Templeton captures that surely kid attitude in all its nuances, making her young character sparkle as he struggles with grief and new beginnings. Indeed, Templeton once again masterfully makes royalty and happily-ever-after-ending believable without dodging painful emotional terrain. Consequently, Templeton's trademark balance of convincing romance, well-developed characters and a healthy dose of humor makes HONKY-TONK CINDERELLA very highly recommended.	2002-03-11
1626003:US	49693975	RA5JV256SHQHA	037344138X	708901500	The Family Feud / Stop the Wedding!	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Terrific fun! Highly recommended	Duets once again provide a hearty dose of love and zany humor with two fun novels. Both stories are delightfully amusing as Carol Finch and Jennifer Drew provide romantic romps that have become a trademark of the Duets line. This Duets selection, part of the Bad Boy Grooms series, will definitely keep the reader highly entertained with its outrageous hilarity.<br />THE FAMILY FEUD by Carol Finch: Living in Oz, Oklahoma does not guarantee a happily-ever-after for Jan Mitchell's dysfunctional family. After thirty-three years her parents have split up. Her father wants to tour the country from a Winnebago, while her mother wants to advance her career at her dress shop. Jan's high school crush Morgan Price owns the hardware store across the street from her mother' dress shop, and employees her father part-time. Consequently, with the elder Mitchells not on speaking terms, it falls to Jan and Morgan to barter for peace and reconciliation. But Jan finds Morgan as infuriating as he was in high school, and his plans to reconcile her parents outrageous!<br />Finch has a gift for creating dysfunctional families and ridiculous situations that result in a humorous read. Middle aged, fickle parents trying to recapture their youth, a change in the groom a month before Jan's sister's wedding, and well meaning but meddlesome small town interference keep the fun coming. And there's always my personally favorite line, spoken during a mother/daughter pity party: \\"[Men are] the bottom feeders in the cesspool of life.\\"<br />STOP THE WEDDING! by mother/daughter writing team Jennifer Drew: After five dress shops, bride-to-be Stacy Moore still hasn't found the right wedding dress. As she tries on yet another, she's distracted by sexy stranger Nick Franklin, who's accompanied his mother while she tries on wedding dresses. Then two strangers kidnap Stacy and bash Nick over the head with a six-pack when he tries to be her knight in shining armor and rescue her. Now Stacy and Nick must combine efforts to escape the six-pack wielding kidnappers. A wild romp across an island in an effort to escape their kidnappers leads Stacy and Nick into extreme circumstances and the discovery of love and forever can begin in the most unlikely of situations.<br />Writing team Jennifer Drew bring their marvelous talent for deftly combining humor with the improbable to STOP THE WEDDING! An Elvis cake, served on a bedspread the King might have slept on, and combat boots worn with wedding dresses serve as a backdrop as this hero and heroine escape their kidnappers. Even the method of kidnapping, will keep readers in stitches. Lighthearted vibrant characters make this an incredibly amusing read.e efforts to escape the six-pack wielding kidnappers. A wild romp across an island in an effort to escape their kidnappers leads Stacy and Nick into extreme circumstances and the discovery of love and forever can begin in the most unlikely of situations. <br />Writing team Jennifer Drew bring their marvelous talent for deftly combining humor with the improbable to STOP THE WEDDING! An Elvis cake, served on a bedspread the King might have slept on, and combat boots worn with wedding dresses serve as a backdrop as this hero and heroine escape their kidnappers. Even the method of kidnapping, will keep readers in stitches. Lighthearted vibrant characters make this an incredibly amusing read.	2002-03-09
1626201:US	49693975	R2FYKEOEYI9FEC	0373710461	294618206	Wide Open Spaces: Home on the Ranch (Harlequin Superromance No. 1046)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Loyalties and legacies -- Very highly recommended	Roz Denny Fox has a gift for using obscure news articles as the premise for evocative tales that capture the reader's heart. WIDE OPEN SPACES, Fox shares in the introduction of the novel, comes from a conservation ad aimed at saving \\"imperiled landscapes.\\" Around this simple ad, Fox creates Summer Marsh -- a woman intent upon the preservation of her heritage and her son's legacy.<br />Under Oregon divorce laws, Summer's ex-husband is entitled to half of Forked Lightening, and intends to collect in cash. He takes her court to force the sale, and the judge gives Summer only six months to come up with 3.8 million dollars to buy out Frank's interest. The prospect looks hopeless as none of the banks want to lend her the money, and she barely meets expenses and keeps the ranch in the black. Frank vows to see her bankrupt within a year with Forked Lightening up for auction if she refuses to sell. <br />Coltrane \\"Colt\\" Quinn tends to side with Frank Marsh until he meets Summer when she brings a bald eagle to the vet with a wing injury resulting from poachers on her land. He is swept into her life as he volunteers to help her rescue the eagle's offspring from their mountainous perch. Special forces training in the military might have prepared him for the physical challenges of assisting Summer, and later working for her, but even a vicious ex-wife cannot shelter a heart that feels such strong kinship with a woman like Summer. <br />Fox brings her love for the WIDE OPEN SPACES of Oregon to this novel, creating a landscape rich in beauty and nuance. Summer is a woman who values her heritage not just for its land but also for its spirit. She's determined to preserve the land and protect from development, yet she also realizes the land comes second to her son's well being. A woman of strong morals and ethics, Summer also exhibits the flaws that make her vulnerably human. Interestingly, Colt begins with a grudge against women; siding with Frank's point of view until he actually sees for himself Summer's inherit goodness. Further, his guilt over his own deceptions regarding Forked Lightening provides strong motivation for his character. This beautifully crafted, marvelously realized tale comes very highly recommended.	2002-03-09
1626216:US	49693975	R30FMS6SBOT4HY	037371047X	944980852	Babes in Arms: Four Seasons in Firefly Glen (Harlequin Superromance No. 1047)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Second chances and babies -- Highly recommended	Obstetrician Heather Delaney has long dreamed of the day she could transform the beautiful Victorian mansion, one of the Glen's four premiere \\"season houses\\" into her combined living and working space. With tentative approval for rezoning, she has invested thousands in the building's restoration. Unfortunately, she also managed to offend the town mayor who, in a petty act of petulance and power, manages to swing the final vote against the rezoning. Since ex-fiancé and board member Griffin Cahill should have been present to help defend her, Heather has no patience when he approaches her to ask for help. When she eventually agrees, she does so only out of concern for the children.<br />Just before leaving for the town meeting, Griffin finds himself saddled with twin boys, age eight months, and no sitter. His sister-in-law was called away to aid her mother following surgery and his brother dropped off the children on his way to a London business meeting. Bachelor/playboy Griffin finds himself ill prepared for infant care. Certainly his collection of expensive glass and modern architecture is not conducive to infant safety. After three days of no sleep, he admits defeat, and asks ex-fiancée Megan for help. He does not expect himself to like caring for children and enjoy the routine he and Heather establish. Perhaps Playboy Cahill will learn the value of home and family before yet another career opportunity and beautiful bimbo catches his attention. <br />Author Kathleen O'Brien pens another delightful romance in the second of her Firefly Glen miniseries. O'Brien's has a gift for portraying the challenges and rewards of caring for young infants, creating comic humor in all the disasters and triumphs. One of the best scenes occurs early when the bimbo girl friend destroys the color-coding system and the twin boys become Stewbert-a blend of their two names. The hero's transformation from Playboy Cahill to substitute daddy likewise adds some intriguing moments, especiallyas the décor of his bachelor pad does not easily transform to a nursery. Heroine Heather Delaney makes a delightful counterbalance, underscoring his need of responsibility and her need a fun. A lovely, entertaining read, BABES IN ARMS comes highly recommended.	2002-03-09
1626283:US	49693975	R3EQW330H4DXQN	0373710496	540314864	On the Texas Border (Harlequin Superromance No. 1049)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Recommended with reservations	For the last month reporter Abby Duncan has been on a leave of absence from her Dallas job, spending time with eighty-year-old Spenser Brewster writing his memoirs. She blames Brewster for defaming her father's character after firing him from his position with Brewster farms following thirty-five years of service. Abby had no intention of writing his memoirs until she recognized it as an opportunity to learn the truth. Then Brewster announces that he has a daughter. If Abby will locate her, then he will reveal the answers she seeks. <br />Brewster insists that Jonas Parker, the foreman of his farming business, accompany Abby. Secrets of the past have bound Jonas to Brewster since he was fifteen. He dreams of the day he will be free of the tyrannical old man who has run his life for so long. When he meets Abby, Jonas feels an immediate attraction, but does not feel worthy of such an outstanding woman. But the quest for Brewster's daughter will draw them closer together as they untangle a web of deceit that will leave them both with more questions than answers.<br />Having enjoyed Linda Warren's EMILY'S DAUGHTER and STRAIGHT FROM THE HEART, I looked forward to reviewing ON THE TEXAS BORDER. It begins wonderfully, with a clash of characters and hints at a past that cannot help but pique the reader's interest. Unfortunately, the middle section of the novel sinks into melodrama as characters behave rather childishly. On the up side, the last few chapters of the book do provide a nice conclusion and some delightful healing. Indeed, two wonderful themes sparkle throughout the novel: that we each define our own identities, and that parents are human, capable of deep love and miserable flaws. Consequently, I feel compelled to recommend ON THE TEXAS BORDER with reservations.	2002-03-09
1626427:US	49693975	RRKUVN7FL3GXY	0373710488	641187794	Unexpected Outcome (Harlequin Superromance, No 1048)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Disappointing	Hired to find a saboteur in a small import company, PI Dana Morancy goes undercover as an organizational design consultant. Instant attraction to Noah Haine causes Dana to remind herself that he is off limits, at least until she can rule him out as a suspect. Interestingly, Dana carries a lot of emotional baggage, having given up her beloved career as one of New York's police officers following a devastating event. <br />Immediately after meeting Dana, Noah surfs the web looking for information on this design consultant. He wonders if she is either a cop or a PI. He finds a website with her credentials as a consultant, but, still suspicious, follows her home later that day, soon learning her true identity. Rather than making her look bad to the bosses, he insists that they team up and find the saboteur together. <br />Dawn Stewardson neatly sidesteps ethical issues of a PI becoming involved with a potential suspect by not allowing the romance to grow between them until the second half of the book. However, that plotting decision presents a problem for the reader. The focus on plot to the exclusion of character development results in distancing the reader from the hero and heroine and not buying into their developing romance. Worse, the final conflict that threatens to tear them apart blindsides the reader, rather than working convincingly into the plot. On the other hand, the mystery is carefully plotted, well motivated, and credibly developed. Nevertheless, UNEXPECTED OUTCOME is unexpectedly disappointing.	2002-03-09
1626493:US	49693975	R2EPFH6UFVGNI1	0373790333	842519515	JUST WATCH ME: Midnight Fantasies	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Forbidden fantasies -- Very highly recommended	Jillian Hennessy has dreamed of succeeding her uncle as CEO in the Hennessey Group, a private investigative firm, since she was twelve. This stakeout is Jillian's opportunity to prove her skills, but instead of watching the bespectacled weasel that won two million dollars of the taxpayers' money in fraudulent claim, Jillian's eyes are increasingly drawn to the hunky guy across the street. Then she realizes that her team wired the wrong house. Instead of watching the weasel, she has an up close and personal view of her neighbor exercising, eating donuts, and showering. The view kicks her lurid fantasies into overtime!<br />Benched during a routine investigation following a shooting, detective Cade Lawrence accepts the stakeout in lieu of a boring desk job. His department took a lot of heat when the jury awarded the scoundrel Stanley Davidson money, and now more scam artists are lining up hoping to collect, too. Years of working undercover have virtually robbed Cade of his identity, making him feel like a chameleon. But his increasing attraction to Jillian has unexpected results. In getting to know her, he rediscovers himself. Unfortunately, the few relationships Cade has indulged have been doomed since they were always based on a false identity, and even though he inadvertently revealed his true name, he fears the falsehoods will have the same effect on Jillian. Yet he just cannot take his eyes off her, in the pool, at dinner, or in his bed.<br />JUST WATCH ME... reveals Julie Elizabeth Leto daring style at its' best. Voyeurism and self-discovery work together to create a novel as sensual as it is memorable. Who among us as not dreamed of that forbidden glimpse behind closed doors, or longed to feel the freedom to display oneself in an erotic interlude of passion and desire? Leto capitalizes on those forbidden fantasies and then adds complexities of work and goals that allow these characters to sizzle. Heated and bold, JUST WATCH ME... will keep your eyes glued to the page. Very highly recommended.	2002-03-09
1626574:US	49693975	R3HUO5PG22U8YI	0373790368	599132922	No Strings Attached (www.gIRL-gEAR.com, Book 2)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Delicious! -- Very highly recommended	In ALL TIED UP, Macy Webb begins this adventuresome series with a scavenger hunt when she gathers the other partners of gIRL-gEAR and some male friends for \\"game night.\\" Present are Chloe Zuniga and Eric Hayden, who teamed up for the scavenger hunt. Now Macy's scavenger hunt is having repercussions she never even imagined for Chloe and Eric.<br />In Chloe's experience, men \\"preferred their women on a pedestal, between the sheets, or three paces behind.\\" But what she wants is a connection, a bond, a sense of completion, and, of course, great sex. Although she doesn't want a relationship with him, Eric does convey a hint of the sophisticated, cultured movie star finesse of her fantasies. He proved himself during the month they spent on the scavenger hunt, when Chloe and Eric shared meals, movies, and fun, not to mention one soul-stirring kiss. Although they've not spent time together since the conclusion of the scavenger hunt, Chloe turns to Eric. Her potty mouth and bad girl reputation has her in trouble with the partners of gIRL-gEAR, and Chloe needs Eric's help with her pro-active, career-saving strategy. She needs an escort.<br />A month of Chloe's company proved to Eric that she is simply covering her vulnerability with her big, bad attitude. Even though he does not envision a future with Chloe, he still does not appreciate her turning him down for dating. Now she needs an \\"escort\\" to official business functions. Eric does not want to become Chloe's arm candy, but if it gets him what he wants, he'll compromise. She needs a date to three major functions. In return he wants three dates - kind of like three wishes. Her only condition is that the possibility of sex out is of the equation. From a girl who's been through sixteen men since the beginning of the year, and it is only April, Eric demands a lot. He gives even more, and that scares the hell out of Chloe.<br />Once again Alison Kent presents a dynamic romance certain to curl readers' toes with NO STRINGS ATTACHED. Kent has a gift for bring her prose a sense of immediacy, with descriptions that keep the pulse racing. Chloe's calculated manipulations of the male species backfires in the most wonderful of ways when it comes to Eric. He's the only man who's ever managed to look beyond her sexy blond appearance to the brains, beyond her negative attitude, and still understand her desire for chivalry. Eric may not be Cary Grant, but he matches Chloe's passion, energy and stamina. This battle of the sexes will delight, tantalize and entertain with Kent's indomitable style. Delicious! Very highly recommended.	2002-03-09
1626597:US	49693975	RPSVKR9M46I2C	0373441371	733877446	Catching Chase / Nabbing Nathan (Duets, 71)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Matchmaking and heartthrobs -- Very highly recommended	Leigh Barrett is tired of her meddlesome brothers' attempts to dictate her life. So she plays matchmaker with one goal in mind: to find lady loves that will keep her brothers' attention fully occupied so that they have no time to interfere in her life. She will stop at nothing if the end result is in her favor.<br />CATCHING CHASE: The women of the small town of Paxton, Texas relentlessly pursue the gorgeous Barrett brothers. The eldest brother, Chase, does not even realize what a heartbreaker he is. But Megan Kendall has known that she loves Chase since she was eight years old. Nineteen years later, she will take drastic action in a quest for what she wants, even if Chase doesn't believe in true love.<br />NABBING NATHAN: Leigh has the answers to her friend Hailey Montgomery's summer dilemma. Her brother has a job and an apartment for Hailey; he just does not know it yet. But when summer ends, Nathan will still own the software company that keeps the small town's economy thriving and him bound to Paxton, while Hailey will still have a commitment to complete her Ph.D. somewhere else. Love and career goals clash when this couple yields to Leigh's matchmaking.<br />Liz Jarrett's zany voice lends sparkle to the Harlequin Duet series Hometown Heartthrobs. One of the greatest challenges in writing for the Duet line is meeting the demand for humor and romance while still creating a story and characterizations with depth. Jarrett rises to the challenge with well-laid out conflict, pacing that enhances the narrative flow and engaging wit. Further, Jarrett deftly demonstrates her gift for creating strong characters that feel overwhelmed by their attraction yet hesitate to commit to a long-term relationship. CATCHING CHASE and NABBING NATHAN combine in a dynamic and amusing read, proving that Jarrett's witty style can't help but win reader's hearts. Very highly recommended.	2002-03-09
1626876:US	49693975	RJ363YR38VFSG	0373710453	708445441	Marriage to a Stranger (Harlequin Superromance No. 1045)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Strong passions come alive -- Very highly recommended	Seven years of marriage have left Conley and Lara Harrison with only ashes of a once all consuming passion. Raised in extreme poverty, Conley's first priority has always been to make enough money to support those he loves very comfortably. His company inadvertently came ahead of his marriage, and Lara can no longer cope with empty nights and her broken heart. Somewhere along the way, neglect resulted in her falling out of love. After sleeping alone for ten months, she asks for a divorce.<br />But Conley has been keeping secrets -- not another woman, as Lara suspects, but something far more dangerous. A stalker knows intimate information, calling at night and on weekends, entering his office during his absence, and even stealing a jacket. When the stalker's behavior escalates to physical danger, Conley fears for the well being of his company. Investors tend to shy of such security breaches. Lara's father runs a bodyguard service, and convinces Lara can only protect Conley if she acts the part of his loving wife until they can solve the case.<br />Conley welcomes the opportunity for Lara to be his bodyguard. He still loves his wife. While she makes plans for his protection, he makes plans to win her back. But for Lara to serve as a bodyguard, she must come to terms with a painful incident of the past, as well as become willing to spend time in Conley's company. Conley likewise must make major changes to win the woman he loves back before the divorce papers are finalized.<br />There is something incredibly endearing about a story that recaptures lost love, and especially so when the couple is already married. Such a situation brings out both tender and fierce emotions as lovers risk vulnerability and pain. Add to that mixture jealousy and betrayal, and the result is an explosive mixture that makes MARRIAGE TO A STRANGER a fantastic read. Indeed, author Kay David once again displays her flair for capturing the deepest nuances, the darkest passions, and the fiercest loves in MARRIAGE TO A STRANGER. Secondary characters are deftly portrayed, making their presence as vivid as the hero and heroine. A page turner that belongs on the keeper shelf, MARRIAGE TO A STRANGER comes very highly recommended.	2002-03-09
1630987:US	49693975	RPCKAH0WWQBXB	0373259727	806558912	INTO THE FIRE (HEAT)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	From the beginning, the attraction between them is overwhelming and intoxicating. From the moment she glimpses him across the crowded room, Lacey Clark feels a sexual sizzle. When she escapes the cocktail party momentarily, she doesn't know that Nate Logan watches her as she jumps on a trampoline in garters and her little black dress. The forbidden glimpse of her overwhelms Nate with intense, instinctive desire. They come together as strangers in a heated encounter; they part as enemies when each learns the other's identity.<br />For months a fiery feud has raged in print between Lacey and her nemeses. Lacey believes in soul mates and responsibility, blaming men for screw-ups. Nate pushes sexual freedom and exploration, blaming women for what ever goes wrong in a relationship. When they each realize they've made love to their nemesis, fiery passions ignite. J.T., the owner of both magazines they work for, sees the possibility of publicity and profit, pitting them on opposite sides of the battle of the sexes. Now their jobs thrust them together as partners in \\"the battlefields of the sexual revolution.\\"<br />Author Leslie Kelly demonstrates her masterful ability to blend passion and humor in INTO THE FIRE. A simple, anonymous encounter backfires as the powerful hero and heroine step in the fire of desire. But the question remains if they can continue their exposure without getting burned. Secondary characters likewise sparkle from the irrepressible Venus, the Amazon goddess, to the not-so-secret spy Raul. Once again Kelly delivers a romance filled with sensual pleasure, comic humor, and fabulous tension. This is an author who always delivers! Very highly recommended.	2002-03-05
1631146:US	49693975	RI8HNEL79H6GC	0758200846	855404492	Too Much Temptation	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Searing! Very highly recommended	Rather than feeling outraged, Noah Harper feels incredible relief when he discovers his fiance in bed with another man. While he dislikes disappointing his grandmother Agatha, Noah had never been comfortable with Kara anyway. She was his direct opposite with her smooth refinement and polish. Noah needs a wild woman who can match his voracious sexual appetite.<br />Grace Jenkins has worked for Noah's grandmother for three years, falling in love with him on sight. But it takes a night of drunken revelry with his brother Ben for Noah to recognize Grace's sensual value. Wet clothes, a black out, and waking together the next morning opens his eyes to all her erotic possibilities. So they strike a bargain. He'll please and delight her if she'll be his willing sex slave. But their sudden togetherness will meet some extreme obstacles when they both find themselves unemployed and the focus of his grandmother's ire.<br />Author Lori Foster creates a sensual delight in TOO MUCH TEMPTATION. Grace is no ordinary heroine with her voluptuous curves and struggle to fit in her waitress uniform. Turning what ordinarily would be a painful fitting experience into a sensual, playfully sexy scene demonstrates Foster's erotic skills at her best. Indeed, TOO MUCH TEMPTATION's success lies in the combination of sensual realism of a modern relationship with heart searing romance. The hero and heroine are intelligent, quirky, and believable. The meddling grandmother likewise adds realism and humor, making TOO MUCH TEMPTATION too tempting to resist. Hopefully, Foster plans a sequel with the remaining Harper descendant! Very highly recommended.	2002-03-05
1631696:US	49693975	R267G7OQI2RUOJ	037327209X	62936766	TAMING JESSE JAMES - OUTLAW HARTES (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wild Hartes strike again! Very highly recommended	The Hartes of the Diamond Harte ranch, consisting of two brothers and a sister, are about to find love in the miniseries Outlaw Hartes. Their father was a descendant of Matt Warner, one of the original members of Butch Cassidy's gang, and was so enamored with outlaws that he named his children after them: Matthew Warner Harte, Jesse James Harte and Cassidy Harte. In TAMING JESSE JAMES, Jesse James Harte will find healing and love in the most unexpected arms.<br />Even more than a year after the hospitals, the surgeries, and the bruises have faded, fourth grade teacher Sarah McKenzie still bears the deep-seated psychological wounds of her beating. She doubts that a sensual, sexy man like officer Jesse James Harte could find a mousy, wounded woman like herself attractive. After all, virtually all the women in town pant after him. Jesse radiates strength and power-exactly what she needs, but she doesn't feel worthy of such strength. Yet Sarah underestimates her own strength. She once stood up for what she believed in with debilitating personal consequences. Moreover, she does not hesitate to do so again, putting herself in danger while standing up for a child that she suspects has been abused.<br />Jesse James Harte lives up to his namesake, having always been a hell-raiser. The only difference between now and his teen years is that now he does it from the right side of the law. Consequently, he does not believe such an innocent woman as Sarah could want a somewhat reformed troublemaker. Still, he wants to know what put the shadows in Sarah's eyes, and where she earned her slight limp. He views her limp as a badge of honor: a proof of her ability to survive overwhelming odds. When Sarah reports her suspicions regarding one of her students, Jesse cannot help identifying the youngster that Sarah suspects has been abused. Little does he suspect the series of events that will subsequently transpire that will put Sarah at desperate risk.<br />Author Raeanne Thayne deftly captures the fears, the needs, and the desires of a woman recovering from the devastating psychological effects of a brutal beating and rape in TAMING JESSE JAMES. The story behind her beating is both unexpected and plausible, lending a powerful strength to the narrative. Conversely, Jesse is every heroine's bad boy dream: the outlaw cop. Yet he underestimates himself, as does Sarah underestimate herself, thereby creating both empathy and compassion in the reader. Favorite characters from the previous book of the series put in their appearance, especially Jesse's delightful nieces. Their bout of chicken pox and manipulation of their uncle's heart will keep readers smiling. Jesse's sister Cassie likewise appears, whetting the reader's appetite for the final book of the series, CASSIDY HARTE AND THE COMEBACK KID. Overall, Thayne magically balances suspense, danger and love in the perfect mix, firmly placing TAMING JESSE JAMES on the keeper shelf. Very highly recommended.	2002-03-05
1631712:US	49693975	R2Z9AQKOCORJL1	0804119767	277424100	Dark of the Night (Ivy Books Contemporary Romance)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Ice queen Riley O'Brien devotes herself to her father's campaign, setting aside her own needs and desires for the goal of her father's presidency. They are at last poised for success, and a romantic relationship now could mean political suicide. Then a car bombing following Riley's appearance at an abortion clinic results in violence when she mistakes a reporter's car for her own ride. When the bomb explodes, investigative reporter Jake Mahoney knocks Riley to the pavement just in time to prevent serious injury. Police are at loss to determine if the bomb was aimed at reporter Jake Mahoney or at the senator's daughter. <br />Ordinarily, Jake would not be trailing senator's daughters. But the usual political reporter was indisposed, and he stepped in to cover the story. As luck would have it, a contact introduces him to Riley, landing him a quick interview, and Jake finds the spark of fire carefully concealed within the perfect façade irresistible. He later assumes his car was destroyed as a result of a bad case of mistaken identity. Then to add insult to an already bad day, Jake follows a lead to Police Chief Douglas Michaels' home, only to run into Riley who has arrived for a scheduled meeting. When no one answers the door, they venture into the unlocked house only to find the police chief dead by his own hand.<br />The incidents of the bombing and the suicide seem unrelated, yet they bring Riley and Jake into a collision course of danger and passion, even as their overwhelming attraction could endanger Riley's father's election. Jake finds Riley to be a sweet mix of fire and ice, and he refuses to back away. Riley has never met anyone who makes her feel such a gamete of emotions from anger to desire. But the only place the future president's daughter and the journalist can meet is in the dark of the night. <br />Author Dee Davis pens a multi layered romantic suspense that readers won't be able to put down in THE DARK OF THE NIGHT. Living in Atlanta myself, I wasimpressed with the ability Davis has of working in the atmosphere and the detail that marks this sprawling metropolitan area. From the park that runs along side the Chattahoochee River to the OK Café at the corner of Paces Ferry and Northside Drive, Davis uses this city to great effect, capturing the political minefields and southern affectations with flair. Characterizations are likewise artfully wrought from the innocent and the manipulative, to the guilty. A deftly woven tale of corruption and secrets, THE DARK OF THE NIGHT wins the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-03-05
1634174:US	49693975	R202C9704YUUW9	0804119767	277424100	Dark of the Night (Ivy Books Contemporary Romance)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Ice queen Riley O'Brien devotes herself to her father's campaign, setting aside her own needs and desires for the goal of her father's presidency. They are at last poised for success, and a romantic relationship now could mean political suicide. Then a car bombing following Riley's appearance at an abortion clinic results in violence when she mistakes a reporter's car for her own ride. When the bomb explodes, investigative reporter Jake Mahoney knocks Riley to the pavement just in time to prevent serious injury. Police are at loss to determine if the bomb was aimed at reporter Jake Mahoney or at the senator's daughter. <br />Ordinarily, Jake would not be trailing senator's daughters. But the usual political reporter was indisposed, and he stepped in to cover the story. As luck would have it, a contact introduces him to Riley, landing him a quick interview, and Jake finds the spark of fire carefully concealed within the perfect façade irresistible. He later assumes his car was destroyed as a result of a bad case of mistaken identity. Then to add insult to an already bad day, Jake follows a lead to Police Chief Douglas Michaels' home, only to run into Riley who has arrived for a scheduled meeting. When no one answers the door, they venture into the unlocked house only to find the police chief dead by his own hand.<br />The incidents of the bombing and the suicide seem unrelated, yet they bring Riley and Jake into a collision course of danger and passion, even as their overwhelming attraction could endanger Riley's father's election. Jake finds Riley to be a sweet mix of fire and ice, and he refuses to back away. Riley has never met anyone who makes her feel such a gamete of emotions from anger to desire. But the only place the future president's daughter and the journalist can meet is in the dark of the night. <br />Author Dee Davis pens a multi layered romantic suspense that readers won't be able to put down in THE DARK OF THE NIGHT. Living in Atlanta myself, I wasimpressed with the ability Davis has of working in the atmosphere and the detail that marks this sprawling metropolitan area. From the park that runs along side the Chattahoochee River to the OK Café at the corner of Paces Ferry and Northside Drive, Davis uses this city to great effect, capturing the political minefields and southern affectations with flair. Characterizations are likewise artfully wrought from the innocent and the manipulative, to the guilty. A deftly woven tale of corruption and secrets, THE DARK OF THE NIGHT wins the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-03-03
1634189:US	49693975	R37J81UEYKFKVD	0373259727	806558912	INTO THE FIRE (HEAT)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	From the beginning, the attraction between them is overwhelming and intoxicating. From the moment she glimpses him across the crowded room, Lacey Clark feels a sexual sizzle. When she escapes the cocktail party momentarily, she doesn't know that Nate Logan watches her as she jumps on a trampoline in garters and her little black dress. The forbidden glimpse of her overwhelms Nate with intense, instinctive desire. They come together as strangers in a heated encounter; they part as enemies when each learns the other's identity.<br />For months a fiery feud has raged in print between Lacey and her nemeses. Lacey believes in soul mates and responsibility, blaming men for screw-ups. Nate pushes sexual freedom and exploration, blaming women for what ever goes wrong in a relationship. When they each realize they've made love to their nemesis, fiery passions ignite. J.T., the owner of both magazines they work for, sees the possibility of publicity and profit, pitting them on opposite sides of the battle of the sexes. Now their jobs thrust them together as partners in \\"the battlefields of the sexual revolution.\\"<br />Author Leslie Kelly demonstrates her masterful ability to blend passion and humor in INTO THE FIRE. A simple, anonymous encounter backfires as the powerful hero and heroine step in the fire of desire. But the question remains if they can continue their exposure without getting burned. Secondary characters likewise sparkle from the irrepressible Venus, the Amazon goddess, to the not-so-secret spy Raul. Once again Kelly delivers a romance filled with sensual pleasure, comic humor, and fabulous tension. This is an author who always delivers! Very highly recommended.	2002-03-03
1635681:US	49693975	R1KQ2W50MOLE2A	1588511588	833837076	Hill Games	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Terrific! Very highly recommended	HILL GAMES begins with the funeral of Aloysius Flynn, and then moves back in time to follow the chain of events leading to his death. Told from the perspective of Chris Johns, Al and his cohort Fiddler Guitry \\"had never encountered a scruple they couldn't swallow or a principle that they wouldn't compromise.\\" To reach his goals, Al never hesitated to use booze, broads, boy toys and blackmail to bring sufficient pressure to bear on the members of Capitol Hill. As a part of the Industry Council for Peace through Strength, Chris had hired Al as the man with the knowledge to control the movers and shakers of Capitol Hill and expedite a change in legislation.<br />Chris seeks to level the playing field for American business by trying to win foreign contracts for defense equipment in the international market against competitors from Britain, France, and a host of other companies. Current legislation forbids the bribing or \\"sweetening\\" of deals to benefit those who aid the deal making in their countries. The bottom line is that the US looses out at the bargaining table because American business cannot offer the same deals as foreign competitors, despite a better product. Chris wants to legalize \\"incentive fees\\" to foreign agents to pave the way for successful business.<br />Author Charles Cronin brings his professional background as independent consultant to the aerospace industry, as well management positions in the several major aerospace corporations to bear in HILL GAMES. With an insider's knowledge of the power plays and deft manipulations that our nation's leaders indulge, Cronin exposes the amoral and illegal implications of such games. The result is a scathing indictment of the highest offices of our land and those who manipulate the legislative process for their own profit. With a fast paced plot, terrific characterizations, and a convincing narrative voice, HILL GAMES comes very highly recommended.	2002-03-01
1636377:US	49693975	R1GQ54SM73HGME	0373244371	823177197	Just A Small-Town Girl (Callahans & Kin) (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Terrific! Very highly recommended	Maggie's brownstone on West 69th street near Central Park West is a long way from Rainbow's End, Texas in ways even more significant than geography. She only returns home for brief visits, devoting her time to her literary agency and a string of pleasant, if emotionally unattached, men. Then her mother's stroke compels a longer return home and suddenly Maggie discovers a secret longing for things she has never had, and fierce desire for the one man who got away who really mattered.<br />Sheriff Zach Tate refused to leave the small town of his youth even for the love of his life. Twenty years quickly dissolve when he sees Maggie again, and his desire for her burns as strongly as when they were teens. He had planned to lay old ghosts to rest; instead, he is flooded with a need for her. Unfortunately, she has a comfortable life and successful career in New York that she will return to; conversely, he is the father of three teens and strongly rooted in Rainbow's End. The distances between them feel insurmountable.<br />In book three of the Callahans & Kin series, author Patricia Kay pens a moving romance with JUST A SMALL-TOWN GIRL. Three delightful teens make this tale especially endearing with a conclusion that will delight romance lovers. Maggie and Zach and likewise memorable, as they are near forty, with the careers and maturity that makes falling in love a rather complicated addition to their lives. Indeed, Kay has a gift for capturing the very essence of romance, lending her characters the strength of passion and depths of emotion that makes her novel memorable. Very highly recommended.	2002-03-01
1641720:US	49693975	RBN6AGP0C81W4	0743300602	830651097	Glass House	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Great read!	In GLASS HOUSE, the first book of a trilogy, Ariana Overton once again weaves a fascinating tale of complexity and imagination. Confronting our cultural myths as well as scientific theory, GLASS HOUSE deftly challenges the fine line between imagination and reality.<br />Drawing a bit from her own background, Ariana's American heroine Samantha Louis (Sam) and Australian hero James Hay are brought together by a remarkable discovery -- a black obelisk, made of such dense material as to defy a diamond bit. This find provides the opportunity for scientific study. <br />As the Aborigine Elders gather -- in defiance of politics and their own security -- to honor Dreamtime and the Ancient Ones at the scientific site, the obelisk is shattered and new possibilities for the human race begin. <br />The quest for answers regarding the destroyed obelisk brings together Sam, James, and a half dozen others. They head toward GLASS HOUSE, a mountain in remote Australia accessible only by hiking through a dangerous and almost inaccessible land. Along the way, they meet with both the face of death and the birth of salvation for the human race.<br />GLASS HOUSE draws from science and myth, including Neanderthals, Yowies (similar to Bigfoot), UFOs, Bunyips (similar to the Loch Ness monster), and the mythology of the Aborigine. Such disparate subjects become a kaleidoscope of elements that resolve themselves into a remarkable pattern that leaves the reader wondering at the simplicity of the explanation for most mythologies. My hat is off to this remarkable author and this remarkable book. If you've an appetite for the paranormal or mythological beasts, GLASS HOUSE is a great read.	2002-02-25
1642372:US	49693975	RV1WCQO4VUSAK	0743300513	605241759	A Glass Darkly	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Terrific read!	Evil creepy crawlers are lurking in the dark and crossing into reality in this latest paranormal action/thriller from Ariana Overton. As the veil between the worlds thins, threatening to allow an influx of danger, Overton weaves a deft web of the fantastic and the paranormal to create A GLASS DARKLY. Although it is part two of a series that began with GLASS HOUSE, it also a fascinating and vivid tale that can stand alone. <br />While GLASS HOUSE was set in the Glass House Mountains of Australia, this second novel is set in the Glass Mountain area of northern California where Morgan Steele has assembled some of the most brilliant minds in engineering and physics. Andi, Andromeda Jones, left the Glass House Mountains once, fleeing Morgan, but with her sister missing, returning seems her only link to find Sam and her husband James.<br />Vox Dei, which translates as The Voice of God, a machine ostensibly created to end war, actually holds a much more diabolical truth. The military wants it for a weapon, the mysterious group \\"The Nine\\" want it for their own brand of power, and others seem to also have likewise dangerous motives for gaining control of this doomsday machine. As Andi brings the machine closer to completion, she ignores the warning signs, finding herself plunged into danger with her own work as the possible means to the end of the world as we know it.<br />Many favorite characters make a return with Glass Darkly, including Sam, James, the blues, the greys, and Yowies. New characters will make an equally vivid appearance, particularly Moon Wolf, this reviewer's favorite. With a deft touch, Overton has created a remarkable novel of passion, war, and the quest for power. While reaching a full and satisfying conclusion, A GLASS DARKLY conversely whets the appetite leaving the reader ready to read more.	2002-02-25
1643550:US	49693975	RQGO1CR5Q2CBC	096782852X	795989502	Island Girl (Seasons No. 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Terrific! Very highly recommended	Since her mom passed away seven years ago, Samantha has taken care of her dad, helping with every household chore from bill baying to assuring that her dad takes his allergy medicine. Their comfortable routine has recently been interrupted, however, by her dad's new marriage. Suddenly Samantha does not feel so needed, and she resents her stepmother's intrusion in her life almost as much as she resents being shipped off for the summer to her new step-grandma's. But her grandma and the island where she spends the summer turn out quiet unexpectedly as she meets new friends, especially Jason, the cute kayaking instructor. Unfortunately, there's a secret game that could threaten Samantha's new love. <br />The second of a series targeting teen girls, ISLAND GIRL scores a direct hit with this audience. Author Lori Stacy deftly captures the struggles and triumphs of changing family dynamics as well as the turmoil of young love. As Samantha gains insight and maturity, she moves from a self-consciousness and resentment to a strong young woman in control of her destiny. A delightfully entertaining read, ISLAND GIRL comes very highly recommended.	2002-02-23
1644623:US	49693975	RNMH2B6MNZICD	0967828538	885547913	60 Cool Holiday Crafts for Year-Round Fun (Get Crafty Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Terrific craft resource! Very highly recommended	Author Nancy Jo King's artistic and teaching background makes 60 COOL HOLIDAY CRAFTS a marvelous resource for parents, teachers and children. With holiday themes to cover all seasons, each project is carefully detailed with simple, easy to follow instructions and lists of ingredients, including where to find the more unusual items. Whether you are seeking appropriate projects for home or classroom activities, 60 COOL HOLIDAY CRAFTS is certain to have many ideas to inspire young creative minds. Further, while the book suggests a total of 60 projects, additional tips expand many projects beyond their intended season to encompass many others, making this a valuable and flexible resource of crafting ideas. Very highly recommended.	2002-02-22
1647737:US	49693975	R2SKFE6WLHL9LH	0373484577	369319283	The Great Montana Cowboy Auction	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Absolutely memorable! Very highly recommended	Elmer, Montana temporarily transforms from a quiet ranching community into a media feeding frenzy with the announcement of THE GREAT MONTANA COWBOY AUCTION. The town elects Polly McMaster to organize the fund raising event that aims to provide relief for a Maddie Fletcher, owner of a neighboring ranch threatened with reposition. As if Polly does not have enough to do as mayor, post mistress, part-time college student and single mother of four, she adds yet another committee to her resume. When someone volunteers to invite Sloan Gallagher home for the auction, as the top prize, Polly remains skeptical that the small town trouble maker turned Hollywood star will put in an appearance. She hopes he will not, with the memory of him catching her in a compromising position eighteen years ago still burning a searing memory in the back of her mind. <br />When a buddy asks him to return to aid Maddie, Sloan jumps at the opportunity to repay the kindness done him by the Fletchers during his teen years. With his mother deceased his father descending into emotional and financial devastation, as well as the family ranch being sold, Sloan had been placed in foster care for two years. Maddie her husband gave him a home, providing the frightened teen stability and instilling confidence and self-worth. As a fourteen-year-old, Sloan's curiosity got him in trouble one afternoon when he peaked into the barn to see the most glorious vision of his young life. Of course Sloan buried the memory, reserving it for fantasy. But this opportunity to return to Elmer reawakens the memory, and Sloan is anxious to see Polly, particularly when he learns she has been widowed for the last six years.<br />THE GREAT MONTANA COWBOY AUCTION weaves numerous subplots with Polly and Sloan's story to create a dazzling tale filled with angst, humor and passion. Anne McAllister is master storyteller, using a long ago memory to bind Polly and Sloan and boldly bring them together. Polly's reticence to become involved with Sloan makes her believable and sparks the reader's compassion even as the reader also cheers Sloan's determination to change her mind. Polly's creative mother and mastermind of the idea for a cowboy auction, inspired by Elmer's surplus of cowboys, gives the novel an added sparkle, as do her children and sister. Indeed, sister Celie's story begins here, and will continue in the June release of the Silhouette Desire entitled A COWBOY'S PURSUIT. A marvelous tale that should not be missed, THE GREAT MONTANA COWBOY AUCTION comes very highly recommended.	2002-02-20
1651192:US	49693975	R3RCP62BX9ZFQG	0373244428	423231802	Woman of Innocence  (Destiny's Women)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Reads better when considered as part of a series	Jenny Wright has always dreamed of going on a mission instead of arranging them for other mercenaries. But Jenny is the shadowy assistant that simply blends into the scenery and never expects her dream to come true. Her bosses have noticed her abilities, however, and have decided to fulfill her dream. For her birthday, she receives the opportunity to go on a mission of her own with mercenary Matt Davis. They will be going undercover as married couple, interviewing prospective candidates for an upcoming mission.<br />Matt does not appreciate a babysitting mission. But a bit of time in Jenny's company and her flightiness ceases to be annoying and comes to seem like the flight of a butterfly-busy, beautiful and filled with grace. Matt sees qualities in Jenny that make her both unusual and intriguing. But Matt still cannot help feeling a bit cynical of the very qualities of innocence that Jenny embodies. To win this warrior's heart, Jenny will have to lead him to the path of healing first.<br />WOMAN OF INNOCENCE reads better as a part of the series than a standalone. Jenny's story feels like a summary of the previous books of the series and preparation for future segments. It is only towards the conclusion that Jenny's story takes control of the novel; but when it does, the action becomes fast and furious and wonderfully satisfying. Nevertheless, Jenny's a fascinating character whose flighty, clumsy, chatty ways conceal her fierce determination to overcome overwhelming obstacles. Matt's pleasure in Jenny's ability to survive her background makes him very endearing to the reader. Recommended.	2002-02-17
1651220:US	49693975	R322OO4H4WLCAD	0515132640	621446321	Runaway Bay	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Lifts the doldrums of winter -- Highly recommended	Thirty-six hours before departure for a Caribbean holiday, Jackie Barnett's boyfriend dumps her with a message left on the answering machine. He coldly announces that he needs more excitement in his life, and she can't provide it. He rails against her lists, complains that she never takes chances, and calls her boring. Jackie's tempted to cancel the trip altogether until a colleague informs her that Farley Phelps will also be in St. Sebastian for the next two weeks. The Phelps grant would fund her research for at least the next five years, and she needs it desperately. Worse, her nemesis, Reade Hunter will also be there, also courting the Phelps grant.<br />Reade schedules the island holiday when he realizes Jackie will be there the same time as the man who funds the grant. He takes advantage of the opportunity by bringing his mother along as an excuse so he won't look obvious courting Phelps for the grant. Looking around for Jackie, Reade expects the mousy woman from a photo in his professional journal. He's dumfounded to learn the sexy, gorgeous woman with Phelps that he's been staring at over dinner is Jackie. His mother and Farley hit off, leaving Reade and Jackie to round the foursome as they each jockey for position with one eye always on the grant they both want. As if things aren't complicated enough, a kiss proves that the grant isn't the only source of tension between them.<br />Author Lisa Hendrix lifts the doldrums of winter with comic humor in RUNAWAY BAY. With a million dollar grant at stake, the conflict is hot and the passions even hotter. The characterizations are wonderful, with the heroine's dress size alone making her absolutely appealing. Add her rather anal determination to make lists and plan every detail, which then blows up in her face, and the result is a delightful romp. Reade's combination of sexy body and brilliant brains makes for an unbeatable hero. In addition, Reade's hypochondriac mother also lends the tale a delightful levity. A light romance destined to keep the reader smiling, RUNAWAY BAY comes highly recommended.	2002-02-17
1654280:US	49693975	R3W4Y79JSP4RAF	0373764162	752683514	Navy Seal Dad (Harlequin Desire)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	An evocative tale -- Highly recommended	Two years had not erased the memory of Rachel Grant. Now injured and forced to take time off, Lieutenant Commander Pete \\"Mac\\" McKenna returns to the city of New Orleans where he once shared snow cones and passion with Rachel. He does not know they also shares another profound connection.<br />Rachel never thought Mac would return. Four weeks of love had radically changed her life, and when he left, Mac took part of her with him. But he also left her pregnant, and it was the pregnancy that made his loss bearable. Mac has already chosen life as a Navy SEAL over her once, and Rachel does not intend to a repetition of history. She also cannot deny him the opportunity to be a father. <br />Once again author Metsy Hingle pens an emotional, evocative tale in NAVY SEAL DAD. Her love for military heroes makes this tale sparkle with its wounded hero and his confrontation with choices of the heart. Rachel Grant is a likewise striking character with her respect for Mac's need to be a SEAL and willingness to face the challenges that presents for her and her son, even when Mac decides to walk away from the career he loves. Secondary characters sparkle, especially the irrepressible roommate with the fantastic matchmaking skills and a heart of gold A delightful, thought provoking read, NAVY SEAL DAD comes highly recommended.	2002-02-14
1654667:US	49693975	R3POWHJK7566WJ	0373244452	837021252	Older Woman (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Mesmerizing -- Very highly recommended	Author Cheryl Reavis' has mesmerizing voice and uses it to great effect in THE OLDER WOMAN. Bugs narrates the story, either through internal dialogues or from his point of view, allowing the reader a shared intimacy and sense of immediacy. His career military past creates an interesting dialogue as it is riddled with the idioms of that lifestyle. Bug's self-honesty and persistence make him a strong, memorable hero. Kate's reticence to become involved and to reveal her own story lends the narrative a strong underlying tension. I admit to a personal connection to her story, as well. I share the same number of years between myself and my life partner, and while the age difference does not prevent the relationship, it does give cause for thought. Secondary character Mrs. Bee provides a bit of comic humor and an occasional dose of wisdom. Indeed, Reavis has a gift for injecting dry humor that frequently kept me in smiles. Very highly recommended.	2002-02-14
1656233:US	49693975	R3T4IAUGBYXUV2	0373790260	638289709	The Bare Facts	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Scorcher! Recommended	An editorial assistant for SPICE magazine, Haley Lawton is offered an opportunity to prove her writing skills. She must write four columns, but she is without a sex partner and assigned to write \\"Spice Up Your Sex Life.\\" Haley's wild and wicked reputation does not bear close scrutiny, and now she must quickly find a partner to explore her fantasies. Indeed, Haley's bed has been empty for a year, since she woke up naked with college heartthrob Dylan Malone, and did not remember what happened between them. What Haley needs is a tutor and she is going to convince Dylan to be the teacher.<br />It drives Dylan crazy to not remember what happened between them on graduation night a year ago. He assumed her departure was just as well, anyway. He did not want to subject her to his \\"high-class barracuda friends and his class-conscious family.\\" Now when Haley realizes that she is entirely out of her playing field, she has serious misgivings about her proposition. Dylan, on the other hand, hopes that enacting a few fantasies will get the delectable Haley out of his system. Perhaps when he has the forbidden, he can return to women of his own social status. Never mind none of them ever hold his attention for long.<br />THE BARE FACTS entwines sensual exploration with a plot of differing social positions keeping these lovers apart. While I thoroughly enjoyed the erotica, explored in scintillating detail, I became terribly impatient with the conflict that keeps Dylan and Haley apart. I have trouble respecting a hero who would allow his social position to dictate his lover. Worse, Dylan does not choose to step beyond such limitations until his peers have already accepted Haley. Social position aside, THE BARE FACTS offers some of the hottest fantasies presented in this line. Each seems to play off women's common desires, such as making love on fur in front of a fire, but the descriptions and sensual exploration gives the fantasies a remarkable freshness. Recommended.	2002-02-13
1657009:US	49693975	RJM0GBGTCH8NW	0373764138	685002037	Billionaire Bachelors: Ryan (The Baby Bank) (Harlequin Desire)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Delightful characterizations -- Recommended	Tabloids announce Ryan Shughnessy as an \\"eminently available hunk,\\" resulting in single women with the appropriate breeding frequently introducing themselves. Jessie Reilly scoffs during their monthly lunch, musing who would have ever \\"thought the skinny kid next door would grow up to be an `eminently available hunk?'\\" Ryan does not intend to stay single long, however, when he learns of Jessie's plans regarding artificial insemination. Her biological clock is ticking and Mr. Right has neglected to put in an appearance.<br />Ryan has always wanted children, but gave up the possibility when his wife was unable to become pregnant. Now widowed, he finds the idea of Jessie turning to a sperm bank incomprehensible. So he persuades her that they have the same goals in life. If she wants a child, he'll provide the sperm. When she makes it through the first trimester, then they will get married. Seems simple enough, until emotional ramifications set in -- extreme morning sickness, as well as the usual challenges when two people are wild about one another, but neither being willing to become vulnerable enough to share their feelings. <br />BILLIONAIRE BACHELORS: RYAN begins with a bang, but ends with a gurgle. The premise of two friends marrying to have children via artificial insemination makes for a fascinating premise. However, I'm unconvinced with how this plot plays out. This couple agrees that they want a real marriage complete with sex. She needs a loan from a bank to expand and keep with the competition, admitting that if she didn't have to spend the money at the clinic, she could afford to expand her gallery. Now, if they know they are going to bed together, they agree they are going to get married when she gets pregnant, and they know that they both want children, why in the world go through the whole artificial insemination process? Nevertheless, Anne Marie Winston is a gifted author, with a crisp writing style and believable dialogue. Her characterizations are delightful, especially the gay houseman. As a result, I still recommend BILLIONAIRE BACHELORS: RYAN.	2002-02-12
1657448:US	49693975	R1SU60RTREELSY	0373244363	465549709	Smile Of An Angel (The Westmoreland Diaries) (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	THE SMILE OF AN ANGEL introduces new series The Westmoreland Diaries by Peggy Webb. The narrative is interspersed by journal entries spanning four decades penned by Anne Beaufort Westmoreland as she records the challenges and joys of her life with husband Michael. Theirs is a special kind of love: they knew at first sight they were bound together as soul mates, and even as Michael's career as a mountaineer carries him thousands of miles away, they have always treasured their bond. As parents, Anne and Michael only wish their children could experience the kind of love they share. This selection in The Westmoreland Diaries is their daughter Emily's story.<br />Emily Westmoreland works in animal rescue and rehabilitation, so no one is surprised when she brings a skunk to the family reunion. Her father has invited his younger friend, mountain climber Jack Dean, to join the family for the weekend. The free spirited Emily immediately captivates Jack as they both recognize their bond as soul mates. After a stunning weekend together, Jack returns to Atlanta to prepare for another climb. When his cameraman bows out due to illness, Jack invites Emily's father Michael to come along to film the IMAX film with Emily's encouragement.<br />But the magic yields to tragedy when an avalanche leaves Michael in a coma. Jack feels incredible guilt for inviting Michael on the expedition and pulling him from retirement. Emily feels guilty for encouraging Jack to invite her father on the expedition, and cannot help but blame the man she loves for the accident. Amid the shared feelings of guilt and blame are Anne's journal entries as she records the pain and the anger of having her husband torn from her life in such a devastating fashion. Surrounded by her children, Anne spends months at her husband's side in the hospital waiting for Michael to awaken from the coma.<br />Author Peggy Webb pens THE SMILE OF AN ANGEL is flowing, poetic prose that sings both in sorrow and in joy. The narrativespans decades, but the time switches are clear, flowing naturally with the narrative, lending it depth and complexity. The emotions displayed by each person touched by tragedy are believable, from guilt to forgiveness, from blame to love. Indeed, THE SMILE OF AN ANGEL is one of the most powerful tales I have encountered in this genre. An evocative, memorable tale, THE SMILE OF AN ANGEL wins the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-02-12
1657541:US	49693975	R3P1ARLMOK3TUY	0373764111	310794477	Redemption of Jefferson Cade (/Men of Belle Terre) (Silhouette Desire)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A promise made -- highly recommended	A promise made: \\"If you ever need me...\\" is a promise to keep as Jefferson Cade opens a mysterious envelope only to find the handwriting of a woman who loved him and left him four years ago. Marissa Alexandre of Argentina returned to her country to fulfill a debt of honor for her father and marry a man she did not love. Now Jefferson holds the news account of a plane going down over the ocean. The article reports the following passengers: Marissa's husband, herself, and her parents. But if she were dead, he couldn't be holding an envelope in her handwriting.<br />Now Jefferson requests the aid of The Black Watch, a mysterious government organization dedicated to justice. Evidence suggests a drug lord brought the plane down, and he does not know Marissa was not aboard. They must move quickly to rescue Marissa from Argentina before she becomes a victim of his vicious vendetta. Four years and the death of her husband and parents have built a lot of guilt, and Marissa no longer feels free to give into the passion she still feels for Jefferson. Worse, she knows her presence threatens the safety of a number of people, and the only way the drug lord will stop will be when either she or he is dead.<br />A riveting tale of passion and danger, THE REDEMPTION OF JEFFERSON CADE will keep the pages turning. Author BJ James once again demonstrates her remarkable gift for strong characterizations, exploring the emotional nuances that bring them dramatic flair. Indeed, this irresistibly sexy hero and the unforgettable ambiance of THE REDEMPTION OF JEFFERSON CADE will linger long after the last page is turned. Highly recommended.	2002-02-12
1658706:US	49693975	R3JQSMH7WDMH4Q	158345442X	300858019	Burn	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award of Excellence	In post-environmental-apocalyptic Old New York City, acidic rains fall in a surreal dirty near-night landscape. In a world where the environment has shifted following corporate brutal abuses intent upon profit, citizens don filter masks and non-reactive coats as a matter of course. NewSchool Grrls, Nouveau Gothics and rogue-boyz populate bars like the Nine Circles, where chip rental outpaces consumption of alcohol, allowing patrons to experience the highs and lows of drugs without the aftereffects. <br />Cage had once been a career cop with a wife, a good partner and a retirement plan with Expedite Corporation, the corporate sponsors of Old New York's police force. Then he challenged Expedite Corporation and lost his job, his wife and his future in the same day. Now he ekes out a living as a private detective. Janice Gild arrives in Cage's office, hiring him to investigate the death of her brother James. The police attribute the case to spontaneous human combustion and have dropped the investigation. Soon Cage learns that James is not the only person to die this way. <br />Jonny Cache, a beautiful android, is a netrunner of unique talent, able to slip past any security system undetected. Once she delivers information to those who hire her skills, Jonny burns the information from her memory to the tune of \\"Ring of Fire,\\" recorded by her namesake in an almost forgotten sunlit era. Jonny achieved sentience because of James Gild. She wants answers to his death. She will begin to find those answers in an online virtual world run by paranormal enthusiasts that leads to a real world meeting with Cage. Together they will attempt to find answers without arousing the attention of Expedite Corporation or the police force it funds. <br />Debut novelist Jonathan Lyons juxtaposes a frightening futuristic landscape with a hero in the tradition of the 30's private investigator. A corporation runs the world, destroying the environment for profit and funding law enforcement. Despitethis bleak landscape, these characters thrive, creating their own unique niches in a world gone wrong, merging their humanity with technology seamlessly. Fans of technoir or cyberpunk will find BURN to be a highly entertaining read, with richly developed characters, and a fast paced plot. Readers will be disappointed to reach the conclusion and left hoping for more! A stunning narrative with haunting possibilities, BURN has earned the WordWeaving Award of Excellence.	2002-02-11
1659227:US	49693975	R19O1J6AKVYB0C	051513225X	400114913	Pendragon	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Wonderful gothic undertones -- Recommended	Meggie Sherbrooke has loved her \\"dratted\\" almost-cousin since she was thirteen. Of course, over the six years intervening between the time they met and the present, Meggie almost forgot him; that is, until her coming out allows them to cross paths again. Meggie is immediately smitten, and then heartbroken, as Jeremy announces his engagement to another. Aware of her feelings, Jeremy later behaves rather badly in an effort to disillusion Meggie and free her heart to love another. <br />Earl Thomas Malcombe expresses his interest in Meggie, but knows her heart belongs to another. Only when medicine he brings saves the life of a younger brother does Meggie afford him the opportunity to spend time together. While she immediately captures his heart, Meggie still mourns the loss of love that never was. Kisses distract her, however, and eventually lead her to marriage with Thomas. But words overheard only an hour after their vows are spoken provoke jealousy and anger, thus ruining their wedding night. <br />As Thomas and Meggie travel cross country to his family home, they are delayed by a homicide, soon followed by an attempt of Meggie's life. When Meggie's family arrives to offer their protection following a second attempt on her life, Thomas' jealousy increases. Often his negative reactions create unnecessary distance in their relationship, despite Meggie's assurances regarding her commitment to their marriage.<br />PENDRAGON is my first exposure to author Catherine Coulter's prose, I admit to feeling a bit torn about this book. On the one hand, she creates a lovely background with strong characterizations and delightful gothic elements. Meggie's puppy love for her cousin that eventually gives way to true love with her husband is a delight to watch. On the other hand, her heavy-handed innocence and pressing the point regarding tongues and kisses grows a bit tiresome. Likewise, Thomas presents a bit of difficulty to like. On the one hand, he is a strong male character whohandles his brother's escapades with grace. On the other hand, I wanted to shake him and tell him to pay attention when he yields too much to his jealous emotions, especially given his crude use of his wife on their wedding night. Yet even that scene is offset nicely when Meggie and the innkeeper share a bottle of champagne and talk of men. Further, the sparring between Meggie and her mother-in-law also proves to be a delight. She never allows the older woman to repress her spirits despite sometimes cruel, often inappropriate, comments. While I'm not entirely satisfied with PENDRAGON, the remarkable strengths will certainly have me giving this author another read. Recommended.	2002-02-11
1660598:US	49693975	R2ZNZW2R64X13C	0373710399	918047049	Secrets of the Outback (Harlequin Superromance No. 1039)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A blend of strengths and weaknesses -- Recommended	Growing up in the bush defined Jewel Bishop's identity. Her father died in car accident when she was six, and her mother's deep grief led to debilitating depression. As a result, she and her mother moved in with an aunt. Later, Jewel topped her law class and won the University Medal, leading her to a position in a prestigious law firm. Jewell is ambitious, hardworking, and strikingly beautiful. Her boss Blair Skinner is delighted with her work, and promises to advance her career, beginning with an introduction to one of the firm's most lucrative clients, Keefe Connellan and Lady Copeland. <br />The introduction has shocking results. Keefe believes that Jewell and her boss have manipulated him and Lady Copeland for nefarious purposes. Lady Copeland admits that Jewell is identical to her at the same age. Jewell's devastated at the suggestion that she was the product of an adulterous affair between her mother and Lady Copeland's son. Questions of identity and motivation leave her reeling in the wake of the stunning discovery. Worse, she finds herself attracted to a man who doesn't believe in her sincerity, half-sister to a woman who resents her, and daughter to a man who doesn't want her. <br />Author Margaret Way paints a brutal, petty world beneath the veneer of sophistication, power and money. The tone is brittle, and has an unfortunate effect of creating a bit too much distance between the characters and the readers. Further, while this heroine didn't ask to be thrust into the glittering tower, she does make things worse at times as she snipes and picks at her half-sister, before admonishing her with a let's-be-friends attitude. As a result, her determined one-upmanship toward her half-sister and her judgmental attitude toward her mother and biological father can grate on the reader's nerves at times.<br />That said; SECRETS OF THE OUTBACK holds some marked strengths. The matriarch of the Copelands is especially appealing with her unconditional love for son and granddaughter even as she acknowledges their faults. Though he plays a small role, Jewel's boss also is breath of fresh air and adds a light note of humor. The distrust of the hero for Jewel's motives likewise plays out nicely, especially as he begins to doubt his earliest assessments. SECRETS OF THE OUTBACK comes recommended.	2002-02-09
1660630:US	49693975	RM821YR7KW06T	0373259611	494904100	Prince Of A Guy (Red-Hot Royals)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Fast paced fun! Highly recommended	Awakened at five in the morning to the sounds of his sister asking him to baby-sit his niece for two weeks, workaholic Sean O'Mara cautiously accepts, despite the four-year-old's perchance for trouble. While ill prepared to care for Melissa, Sean sees his sister's opportunity to further her career with this flight to England too good to pass up. Only two days turns his house into a war zone with piles of laundry and no sleep, so when a prospective nanny arrives to relieve his burden, Sean gratefully hires her. Little does he suspect this princess has manufactured references, no work experience, and a strong desire to experience middle class suburbia.<br />Runaway Princess Carlyne Fortier answers the ad for a nanny in complete disguise, including heavy cosmetics, heavy clothing, thick glasses and colored contacts. With her face plastered all over the tabloid's front pages, she's determined to pass as Carly Fortune. Little does she suspect the conundrums her disguise will create for both herself and her employer. Carly quickly learns the joys of being accepted on the basis of one's merit rather than one's social position. Sean finds her wildly attractive despite the artificial disguise, sparking a strong response in the princess. Further, Carlyne will find she loves life living as Carly and learn how much Sean hates any type of deception. <br />Author Jill Shalvis pens a lighthearted, amusing read in A PRINCE OF A GUY. Sean sees the world in terms of true or false, and falsehoods offend him terribly. Such a black and white world view clashes with a woman who needs to disappear to find herself. This quirky princess lacks practical experience with young children, and Melissa puts her to the test with her inquisitive nature and fierce determination. Indeed, the four-year-old threatens to steal the show with her knack of feeding sandwiches to computer drives and her sweetly charming hugs. In addition, Sean's nosy, tree climbing, well intentioned neighbor likewise makes the narrative sparkle. A fast paced read that keeps the smiles coming, A PRINCE OF A GUY comes highly recommended.	2002-02-09
1660744:US	49693975	R2376SXD7EQC6I	0373710410	514735064	Mother to His Children: The First Family of Texas (Harlequin Superromance No. 1041)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	When forced to choose between a traditional role as a homemaker and the role of a career woman, Julie First had no doubts she wanted a career. Not that she isn't maternal, or wouldn't like to have a family, but a woman doesn't earn her master's degree just to become a cookie mom. So when Julie lands the challenging position as a curriculum writer for the Coyote Springs schools, she is ecstatic. But she has serious misgivings with an ultimatum to either sign an oath of loyalty that promises she will not criticize the administration or walk away from this opportunity. Soon her misgivings give way to suspicion when she begins to suspect the current administration of misdeeds.<br />When Julie approaches school board member Rolf Murdock with her concerns, he initially believes her to be over reacting. Soon, however, circumstances likewise lead him to suspicion when his questions are met with open hostility. Rolf and Julie join forces to quietly investigate the practices of the current superintendent and school administration even as they grow closer together personally. But Julie's very concerned that Rolf's divorce was motivated by his wife's desire for a career. Even as she gives her heart to his four children, she doesn't want to likewise relinquish her dreams for the future. <br />Once again KN Casper's deft pen creates a world that challenges the status quo in A MOTHER TO HIS CHILDREN. Casper has a gift for capturing the inner turmoil that motivates not only his main characters, but also his secondary characters. As a result, his novels reach a level of depth seldom matched within the genre, as demonstrated by A MOTHER TO HIS CHILDREN. In addition to the plot of irregularity among the school district's administration, the choice between family and career also becomes a strong matter of concern for this heroine even as she falls in love with four delightful youngsters. The age difference between herself and the hero likewise comes into play since she's not that mucholder than Rolf's oldest child. Yet Julie demonstrates with grace that motherhood and maturity are not contingent upon years. A remarkable balance of motives, concerns, and hearts, A MOTHER TO HIS CHILDREN comes very highly recommended.	2002-02-09
1660842:US	49693975	R1A4B85N2X867S	0373710402	299089347	Maternal Instinct: 3 Good Cops (Harlequin Superromance No. 1040)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Fantastic plot! Highly recommended	Following a heinous crime of mammoth proportions, officers gather to unwind at a local bar. Too many beers later, inebriated partners Nell Granstrom and Hugh McLean leave their previous antipathy behind to find drunken solace in one another's arms. While both act out of character, their passion is genuine, leaving a haze of guilty pleasure and embarrassment when they wake in the backseat of Hugh's Explorer. Nell's last words before climbing out of the Explorer the next morning are, \\"It never happened.\\"<br />But it did. The memory of their drunken lovemaking continues to haunt both Nell and Hugh. In the days that follow, the officers continue to investigate the bloodbath that occurred at The Greater Northwest Insurance Company. While investigators assume they've found the shooter, Hugh becomes convinced that the horrific crime masked another murderer as well. Ironically, only his irritable partner believes him. Then the worst personal crisis occurs: Nell's pregnant.<br />Nell's mother gave birth to her at the age of sixteen. When Nell was sixteen she gave birth to her own daughter Kim. Now Kim's sixteen, and Nell lives in fear her daughter will make the mistakes of her mother and grandmother. The last thing Nell expected was to become pregnant. Neither she nor Hugh has ever been married. Of course he'll offer to do the right thing, but the question remains if Nell's ready for a full time man in her life after years of independence and single parenthood. <br />Author Janice Kay Johnson offers a tale of complex emotional ramifications in MATERNAL INSTINCT. As Nell's worst nightmare comes true, she must confront not only her fears regarding marriage, but also her role as mother to Kim. The \\"do as I say, and not as I do,\\" issue reaches gargantuan proportions as Nell prepares to become a mother again. Fear that she's lost authority over her child, fear that she's loosing control of her own life, and fear of her emotional responses to the father of her baby propel Nell toward self honesty and self forgiveness. However, I found myself growing impatient with Hugh's mother's interference and Nell's willingness to allow her fears to mask well-intended comments with her own insecurity. Nevertheless, the plot absolutely delighted me, as did Kim's responses to her mother's pregnancy. Consequently, MATERNAL INSTINCT comes highly recommended.	2002-02-09
1661069:US	49693975	R39WS8TDK6YJX9	0373710437	229318539	Across a Thousand Miles (Harlequin Superromance No. 1043)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award of Excellence	Author Nadia Nichols pits her heroine and hero against the elements and each other in ACROSS A THOUSAND MILES. Based on the Yukon Quest International Sled Dog Race run each year in February, Rebecca Reed and Bill (Mac) Mackenzie challenge over a 1,000 miles of grueling terrain between Whitehorse, Yukon and Fairbanks, Alaska. The race takes place each year in mid February when the weather conditions can be the coldest and most unpredictable of the year. More than the unpredictable terrain and weather, however, are two unpredictable hearts drawn irresistibly to one another even as they race against each other.<br />Rebecca feels guilty for her feelings regarding Mac. She has grieved a long time, and it feels wrong to abandon the memory of her husband for someone new. Falling in love with Mac, to Rebecca, is like a betrayal of her late husband's memory. She had loved her husband deeply, and loved this life they built together in the harsh elements of the Yukon. His loss left her days lonely and bleak and while things are improving, the harshness of her days is making her hard in ways Rebecca doesn't like. Yet when she meets Mac, Rebecca can't help being drawn to a man with a soft spot so big he can't even kill the animals his brother asks him to trap.<br />Mac has hit rock bottom. A failed marriage, a failed career, and the feelings of a failed life led him to the wilderness to care for his brother's dog team while his brother returns to college. Although his failed marriage has convinced him to swear off women, Rebecca quickly captures his heart. Unfortunately, he can't compete with a dead man. Further, the harshness of the Yukon at times leaves him wondering what made him think he could challenge this hostile land and survive. Despite the odds, however, Mac bends a few rules and signs up for the race, determined to win, even if he has to beat Rebecca.<br />Nichols portrays the Yukon with a savage beauty, describing Rebecca's life almost poetically: \\"She had come to love this little place on the edge of the wilderness, the timeless cycle of the seasons, the ebb and flow of life, and the harsh, harsh laws of the wild.\\" Outhouses, wood stoves, hand carried water become a part of daily life, reminding readers of conditions typical of a hundred years ago. With such descriptive word pictures, Nichols creates a tale of danger, of love, of challenges and of the triumph of the human spirit. As the hero of this tale goes above and beyond what seems endurable, the rewards at the end make for a happy ending that will leave the reader with tears and rejoicing. Indeed, no reader can read the concluding chapters without a racing heart and a smile. It's a remarkable achievement indeed to perfectly capture such an extraordinary tale and compact perfectly into series romance. ACROSS A THOUSAND MILES is a winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence.	2002-02-09
1661225:US	49693975	R1C39H3POVYGIB	0373710380	400647943	A Second-Chance Proposal: The Shannon Sisters (Harlequin Superromance No. 1038)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fascinating! Very highly recommended	Two years ago an innocent teenage girl was shot down during a demonstration. Dylan McLean feels responsible for her death because he organized the environmental protesters in response to his stepfather's decision to drill for oil on the family ranch known as the Thunder Bar M. Dylan maintains his innocence, although most of the town folk believe he pulled the trigger. Without proof, he was never arrested. The day following the shooting was to be his wedding day, but he abruptly left town instead. In the wake of his departure, and his stepfather's election as mayor, the town remains convinced of his guilt. Only a rodeo accident and forced down time for introflection led him to suspect who pulled the trigger and convinces him to return to prove his innocence. <br />Left with only a letter of goodbye on her wedding day, Cathleen started over alone, refurbishing the bed and breakfast she and Dylan should have run together. She dated other men, attempting to put her life back to normal, including Dylan's stepbrother. When Dylan returns to town, however, she wants no part of him. But old rumors prevent him from finding a vacancy anywhere else, and she feels compelled to give him a place to sleep -- in the barn. He doesn't remain there long, however, as she begins to help him unravel the secrets of the past. She doesn't believe he killed the girl, just like she knows he's still a threat to her heart. But he walked out two years ago, and she intends to make him pay.<br />CJ Carmichael provides fascinating twists and surprises on the path to love for the first Shannon sister in SECOND-CHANCE PROPOSAL. The intricacies, complexities, and secrets behind the murder scandal provide an intriguing background. Dylan's mistake in cruelly leaving his fiancé on their wedding day demonstrates his vulnerability and humanity, revealing him to be a flawed yet sympathetic hero. The fact that Cathleen resumes her social life rather than pining away reveals her strength of character, and underscores the validity of old feelings as they begin to resurface. A terrific beginning to the Shannon Sister miniseries, SECOND-CHANCE PROPOSAL comes very highly recommended.	2002-02-09
1661249:US	49693975	R3ULQX82OD56B4	0373710429	912183736	The Maverick (Harlequin Superromance No. 1042)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The deputy and the maverick - Very highly recommended	Labeled \\"trailer trash\\" by her small hometown of Treetop, Wyoming, Sophie Ryan got pregnant at seventeen. When her alcoholic father kicked her out, she found a place to live, finished high school, and eventually landed a job as a deputy while finishing a degree in social work. A coat of paint might not conceal the sagging floors, but she is proud of her small house and her now thirteen-year-old son Joe. She's finally gained the respect of her tiny community. Then she sees the Maverick racing back into town on his motorcycle, and stops him for speeding. That leads to an arrest for fourteen-year-old charges of breaking and entering, arson, and such. When she looks into his deadened eyes, Sophie can't help wondering what happened to Maverick Luke Salinger's possibilities. He'd had plans and dreams living in those eyes fourteen years ago.<br />Sophie never publicly named the father of her baby, but Luke had heard all about her rebellious behavior from his brother Heath. Indeed, Heath had been Luke's only contact to the past, until he finally chooses to come home for a family reunion. Years on the road, eventually working as a stuntman for B grade movies in Los Angeles, hadn't filled the empty spaces. Now he and Sophie have traded places. She earns the respect of her family and town while Luke returns to the family ranch as a black sheep. When the judge remands him to Sophie's supervision, he considers it an opportunity to rediscover the girl he left behind. Then Luke begins to unravel the secrets of the past, and finds there's a lot more than he didn't know. Unfortunately, even Sophie can't even identify with absolute certainty the father of her baby.<br />Author Carrie Alexander reveals the soul of a poet in her beautifully penned THE MAVERICK. Thoughts, emotions, and images come to life with her lyrical prose, in such descriptions as \\"the great dome of sky deepened to purple-tinged indigo.\\" Her respect for these wide-open spaces, and the bored youth with troubled backgrounds that make foolish decisions, shine throughout the novel. Although she portrays those mistakes with empathy, Alexander's characters also face the consequences of those actions, albeit fourteen years later with the maturity of adults. Strikingly, the heroine takes full responsibility for her actions regarding her pregnancy, and does not blame anyone else for her mistake. Such responsibility makes her a strong, incredibly powerful heroine. Further, irony makes the plot sparkle with humor and with grimness in equal measure, making THE MAVERICK a memorable read. Very highly recommended.	2002-02-09
1661356:US	49693975	R27U61A96WRNJJ	0373195745	243954881	The Ranger & the Rescue (Silhouette Romance)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Fantastic New Age charm! Highly recommended	The black and white photograph bears little resemblance to the flame-haired sprite before him, but the cowboy knows her true identity. Serenity Clare does not recognize the sexy cowboy on her doorstep, but he somehow recognizes her, calling her by the name she left behind a year ago. Hearing her former name frightens Serenity, making her wonder if her horrifically abusive former husband has sent this amnesiac cowboy to report her location.<br />With no other memory than Serenity's true name, this man nicknamed Justus willingly accepts her aid. A leopard printed thong and two healed bullet wounds to his back don't reveal much about this stranger living in her home. Yet Serenity can't help but wonder if instead a threat of danger he brings a promise of new beginnings and healing.<br />Author Sue Swift brings her love for the unusual to THE RANGER & THE RESCUE. Her deep understanding of new age philosophies and tools becomes apparent with heroine's love of natural foods, morning yoga meditations, and crystals. As the reader discovers the reasons that Serenity Clare has turned to new age solutions to her troubled past, one's sympathy and compassion can't help but deepen the reading experience. Further, tarot card reading and aura photographs prove to be unusual yet delightfully fresh methods for establishing an identity for this amnesiac hero. Quirkily, gently erotic, and wonderfully entertaining, THE RANGER & THE RESCUE comes very highly recommended.	2002-02-09
1661590:US	49693975	R29QZJFL6UO3BQ	0373244460	62259904	Wedding Bargain (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Second chances -- Highly recommended	His father always said that his playboy second son would come to a bad end. A prison term proved his father right. But now Drew Pierce has paid his debt to society, serving the maximum time allowable. Six years ago Drew had been under orders from his father to cut corners wherever possible. He chose to repair a faulty valve on a propane gas tank instead of replacing it. A conflagration resulted, with several injuries, the loss of most of that year's crop, and a fire that spread to Stone's End. Between hefty fines and legal fees, the Pierces faced financial ruin in the community. With Drew incarcerated, they closed the sawmill, departing for more lucrative sites. <br />Only a few days out of prison, Drew sits out the rainy night in a diner just before closing time. Olivia DeAngelis enters, stranded when her car breaks down. Overly friendly, rough-looking customers lead her to appealing to Drew to pretend to know her. She ordinary avoids men, which leads to the great comment: \\"It wasn't that she didn't like men; she simply didn't want one of her own.\\" Drew does not want to be anyone's rescuer; yet he finds himself drawn into Olivia's life almost against his will. He attempts to repair her car. Since they are headed to the same destination, she insists on providing him with a ride. But the car breaks down again, stranding them together in an old cabin.<br />Soon Olivia realizes that Drew would make an ideal husband to fulfill her grandfather's will. The terms of her grandfather's will demand that she marry to inherit Stone's End. For too long Drew had relied on his family's money and reputation for an easy life. Prison has changed him profoundly. Marriage to Olivia affords him the opportunity to start again, to give something back to the community his actions damaged. He'd originally planned to pick up his things and leave the area forever, but now he makes a commitment instead to help restore this town that once relied upon the sawmill for economic support. Strong chemistry raises the possibility of more than a marriage of convenience, though Drew doubts any woman like Olivia could truly ever want him.<br />Author Lisette Belisle presents a powerful tale in THE WEDDING BARGAIN. This marriage of convenience plot is striking because it gives each partner equal power in the relationship. Olivia needs to marry in order to meet the terms of her grandfather's will, and Drew needs the timber on Olivia's land in order to supply his sawmill. Even the purchase of the sawmill becomes an equal partnership when Olivia offers her own money to meet the auction price. While both partners are hesitant to reveal their inner landscapes, both feel a strong attraction from the moment they meet; both are wounded by the past; both need healing. In addition, Drew is an outstanding hero in his own right. He's served five years in prison for his part in an explosion at the migrant camp, paying his debt to society. His return home provides another kind of accountability-to the people whose lives he damaged. Indeed, one of the most powerful scenes of the book occurs when he stands before a woman whose gone deaf as a result of the explosion. Highly recommended.	2002-02-08
1662327:US	49693975	R1LIZ5HBOG85WF	0373790279	647033629	Scent Of A Woman	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Wow! Very highly recommended	If Susan Carrington cannot have her wish for the forever kind of love, then she is at least ready for an arousing, exciting adventure. She is tired of men who want her based on her incredible looks and even more fabulous wealth. The moment she sees a sexy stranger selecting a scarf, she feels something extraordinary. Acting entirely out of character, she teases and excites him with a sensual promise: \\"Meet me Wednesday night.\\" When they meet, Susan tells David that she wants the freedom to be anyone she wants -- to explore her most wicked desires and fantasies. <br />Psychiatrist David Levinson has no clue as to the identity of the stunning, mysterious woman who boldly propositions him. Cloaked in anonymity they are free to explore their passionate attraction. David comes to associate the sexy smell of Susan with the scent of promise, of daring, of a woman who makes him appreciate being male. Their stunning Wednesday nights are about wild abandon and physical pleasure. But when daylight comes, he cannot seem to get his temptress off his mind. Soon he wants more than anonymous play. He wants to know the woman behind the sexy façade. And that scares the hell out of Susan.<br />Author Jo Leigh pens a fabulously sensual adventure in SCENT OF A WOMAN. While David and Susan seek erotic play, neither can get past the fact that they also desire more. Their sensual encounters are intoxicating, building a need for an emotional relationship as well. Favorite characters from previous romances by Leigh step in, attempting to play matchmaker, demanding to know who they have become involved with, and generally providing amusing moments to offset the wildly erotic content. Indeed, Leigh strikes the perfect blend of humor, emotional depth and sensuality, making SCENT OF A WOMAN one of Blazes hottest titles. Very highly recommended.	2002-02-08
1664425:US	49693975	R3MALS59RSPV2D	0345437616	898922751	Falcon's Angel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A study in contrasts - Very highly recommended	Angel ignores nineteenth century superstition that warns of the danger of rescuing a drowning man from the sea. Boldly following her intuition, Angel risks the sea taking revenge on both the victim and the rescuer. A child of the sea and of uncertain birth, Angel is said to be more fey or witch than part of the Brethren. Angel tells Will that the Brethren live on the goods that wash ashore, refusing to believe accusations that the Brethren lure vessels to their doom. A reclusive group, outsiders must be put to death unless they marry one of the Brethren members. In a handfasting ceremony, Angel marries Will to protect his life. He later escapes and forces Angel to accompany him home to Charleston.<br />For a girl with salt on her skin and seaweed in her hair, Angel finds herself challenged to learn the manners and restrictions of high society. Will does not honor their handfasting ceremony, and is unofficially promised to another. Angle and Will are a study in contrasts: she is the child of the sea, and Will is a member of the elite Charleston society. Angel believes in the goodness of the people who raised her. Will is intent upon revenge, blaming Angel's people for the destruction of two of his father's ships, which led to the deterioration of the financial situation of his father's business, and his father's eventual suicide.<br />Winner of an RT Career Achievement Award for American Historical Romance, Judith French has a gift for utilizing ambiguities to create a memorable story. Lady Graymoor desires a solution to the puzzle of what happened to her granddaughter, hoping Angel is her missing heir. Angel wants to know if Bret is truly her birthmother. For much of the story, Angel does not accept the truth of the Brethren as pirates -- again choosing to live within the ambiguities. As a result, there are no easy answers, but many challenges and demands for self-honesty within this tale. Sharply contrasting the ambiguities are vivid characterizations and fierce loyalties that give the tale a dynamic tone. The background of early nineteenth century Charleston and the Outer Banks likewise becomes a vibrant setting for this wonderfully entertaining tale. Very highly recommended.	2002-02-06
1664944:US	49693975	R4WJ5Y1EPDP7E	0373259670	464338191	Joyride	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Will kick the libido into overdrive!	A five year engagement leads to dreams of marriage and children for Corinne McCourt. But with fiancé Tony Borgeson continuing to drag his feet on setting a wedding day, Corinne resorts to desperate measures to rekindle his flame. Rather than attending her annual company picnic this year, Corinne plans to surprise Tony for lunch. Dressed in nothing but plastic wrap and stiletto heels, she greets Tony at the door. But he isn't alone. Some frizzy-haired blond calls Corinne the cleaning lady while Tony still treats her like Inconspicuous Corinne. While Tony argues with the frizzy ditz, Corinne picks up the keys to his Porsche, and leaves. She had planned to shed her inhibitions; instead, she leaves behind her whole life.<br />Detective Leo Wolfman hates the desk assignment he received following a drug bust in which he was shot. But four months of typing with two fingers leaves him desperate for a \\"real\\" assignment. So his boss says if Leo solves a \\"bump and run\\" then he can return to regular duty. The investigation leads him to a boxing ring and a gorgeous woman he only knows as Red. Leo doesn't suspect the woman follows actually took her cousin's place for a few weeks, and is really Corinne. The subterfuge gives her opportunity to be as wild and sexy as she wants. Leo doesn't know Corinne is attracted to and excited by his bold perusal when he enters her dressing room and finds her naked. Indeed, her mixed signals baffle him with her mix of siren and innocence. Leo only knows that his reaction throws his libido into overdrive. <br />Author Colleen Collins brings the humor that makes her popular in Harlequin's Duet line to the Temptation selection JOY RIDE. Dramatic, uninhibited and a touch of the forbidden make JOY RIDE a thrilling experience. Collins exploits what anonymity can do for a woman with a suppresses streak of daring and boldness when that anonymity gives room for sensual self-discovery that transforms the previous inconspicuous Corinne. Further, Collins has a deft touch for creating outrageous yet believable characterizations. The hero and heroine have depth while still allowing the narrative to remain light in tone. In addition, not only does the naughty cousin that Corinne replace walk on the wild side, but so does the hero's pet parrot who's named Mel Gibson and has a drinking problem. Indeed, all the secondary characters sparkle as brilliantly as Corinne and Leo. Very highly recommended.	2002-02-06
1665021:US	49693975	R1V3JE5S81AWF6	0373764057	41442245	Cowboy's Promise (Man Of The Month/Code Of The West) (Silhouette Desire)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A beautiful, character driven romance	In a war torn, obscure part of the world, two people found life affirming love in the midst of death and devastation. Charlie Seeks Elk photographs the tragedies of the world, capturing disillusionment and pain on film. Fearing love and a promise of permanence, he leaves Cait Blasingame behind. Two years later three bullets take his life, and as he's poised between this life and the next, standing in the light of eternity, he turns back to life because Cait wasn't there. It takes three months to recover well enough to leave the hospital. Another month proves Cait has left that shredded country to rebuild without her. Finally a friend traces Cait to Elmer, Montana.<br />But Charlie doesn't receive the reception he'd hoped for. Cait has rebuilt her life without him, moving in with her father as he recovers from a heart attack. Cait wants marriage and a family, and she is engaged to a cardiologist. Working as a nurse-midwife gives her a first hand connection to her heart's desires, and she thinks she's left Charlie behind. One kiss later, her heart tells her otherwise. She thinks it doesn't matter, though. She knows Charlie could never find joy and satisfaction without the crisis of war torn country and the subsequent devastation to photograph. Sure, he thinks he wants marriage now, but what's a cowboy's promise worth when he's already walked away before?<br />A COWBOY'S PROMISE is a joyful romance filled with the promise of healing and of possibilities. Author Anne McAllister captures the transformation of Charlie Seeks Elk with grace as he learns to listen to the wind. His life after death experience and the renewal of purpose gives his character an appealing motivation. As he lives quietly in the wilds of Montana, the reader can't help envying the beauty of his newly discovered world. Further, Charlie's patient determination to win Cait's love is likewise a pleasure, balanced perfectly by Cait's stubborn strength and determination. A marvelous romance for an evening's read, A COWBOY'S PROMISE comes very highly recommended.	2002-02-06
1665368:US	49693975	R5HX85JTJPD4W	0451410203	24354483	Hometown Girl	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Very highly recommended	When successful lawyer Lauren Van Horn returns to her hometown of San Rafael, Utah, passions threaten the peace of the small community. Lauren represents the environmentalists, the tree huggers that save endangered lands and animals. The people of San Rafael resent people like Lauren because their fragile economy depends on its environmental resources. When her environmental comments got in her in trouble with the town folk several months ago, Lauren vows to stay silent this time and attend her family concerns instead. Unfortunately, circumstances take that decision out of her hands. <br />Lauren's sister Becca has asked her to come home to help with a custody issue. Becca's ex-husband Joe threatens to use her romantic interest Gabe Randolph in another man as the means to gain custody of their seven-year-old daughter. When he moved back to town and Becca was single again, they thought they'd see if they pick up where they left off in high school. Unfortunately, small town gossip created jealousy in Joe. Now Becca wants Lauren to become publicly involved with Gabe to take the heat off herself, wisely deciding to try to avoid courts in the custody issue. <br />Gabe is now an oil producer whose company hopes to tap San Rafael's resources. The town wants the jobs and economic boost such a venture provides. Lauren, however, worries for the delicate desert landscape and protests the venture based on environmental issues. With such vast difference of values, maintaining a romantic interest becomes challenging. Her heart knows no barriers, either, making the situation even more volatile. Add protesters who aren't afraid to resort to sabotage to accomplish their ends, a meddling mother, and a demanding boss, and Lauren finds herself confronted with challenges on all fronts.<br />Author Mary Jane Meier's HOMETOWN GIRL is contemporary romance at its finest. With a solid understanding of the dynamics of custody battles and environmental issues, Meier creates a novel rich in nuance and flavor. Not only do the primary characters sparkle, but the supporting cast also comes alive, making the small town of San Rafael a believable, richly diverse background. Indeed, even the simplest characters, such Ezra the retired cook who's blindness doesn't make the picture of his beloved Chloe any less vivid, threaten to bring a tear to the reader's eye. Very highly recommended.	2002-02-06
1667194:US	49693975	R2LSU4TV5PIYJT	0373259638	518473324	Learning Curves (Heat)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Higher learning will never be the same!	Graduate student Madeline Watson feels outraged to learn that her desertion topic has been rejected. She had elected to study the mating practices of humans from a sociological point of view. The committee's denial of the topic implies that she lives a pristine life that lacks practical experience with dating rituals; therefore, her innocence disqualifies her from making an adequate study of such a racy topic. Consequently, Madeline approaches long time friend Cal Turner, the bad boy of the teacher's lounge. Her goal: to practice dating rituals publicly enough to convince her professors to reconsider her topic.<br />Cal has tried to flirt with Madeline for years, but she just never seems to \\"get it.\\" He resolved long ago to maintain their platonic friendship. Now he is shocked at Maddy's invitation to come to her place to burn up the sheets. Shocked that she offers and flattered that she wants him, Cal still has to decline. He has been cleaning up his reputation for the sake of a custody hearing for his little sister. A flagrant and public affair could cost him the case. Still, he finds himself irresistibly drawn to Madeline, especially when his Lady Scholar becomes a siren in a red dress.<br />Author Joanne Rock brings a marvelous sense of adventure and a touch of the unexpected to LEARNING CURVES. In the Ivory Towers of higher academia, this marvelous heroine discovers that higher learning and falling in love can be both challenging and rewarding. Rock carefully sidesteps current policy of prohibiting a graduate student and an instructor from dating. Her ingenious resolution: they were friends before he started teaching, she has more teaching experience, and they are in different departments. And in a world where a graduate student's reputation makes all the difference, in this case because she is a little too pristine, Rock exploits the possibilities to the fullest. A delightful romp scertain to entertain, LEARNING CURVES comes very highly recommended.	2002-02-04
1667241:US	49693975	R30T49HDCLB856	0505524570	438559502	The Star Prince (Star Series, Book 2)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Sequel to The Star King -- Very highly recommended	After three alcoholic pilots drink themselves to death, Ian Hamilton finds himself stranded on Donavan's Blunder, a bustling crossroads that attracts the dregs of the galaxy. Ian must find a pilot. His stepfather Romlijhian B'Kah has assigned him a task critical the future of the galaxy. A Vash Nadah, Rom had first broken tradition by marrying the earth woman. He broke tradition again by choosing Ian to be his heir. <br />Now after month in the frontier, Ian's intuition tells him that the set backs, ship malfunctions and pilot problems are not coincidence. Since first contact, the people of earth have approved being a part of intergalactic Trade Foundation and liked the Vash. Now propaganda for \\"Earth First\\" seeks to undermine that alliance. If earth withdraws from the alliance, others may follow, thereby undermining the stability of the entire galaxy. Ian's mission is to learn if the earth's unrest has spread to the frontiers of the galaxy.<br />The Vash possess a long and well-respected heritage. Eleven thousand years ago they nearly destroyed their own civilization. A group formed of eight families at last brought a long lasting peace to their people. Thousands of years later, they still adhere to the teachings set down by their forefathers. Unfortunately, that includes the tradition of keeping their royal women in seclusion. When Princess Tee'ah learns of the possibilities for women from her earth bound cousin, her spirit longs to fly free. <br />Tee manages to learn to become a pilot, but when her father learns of her skill, he's outraged. Worse, Vash do not marry for love, but for political alliance. Her prospective husband will also never approve of her free spirit. So during a ferocious storm, Tee affects her escape. She heads to the frontiers, but while her ship is being worked on, palace guards arrive and confiscate her ship. Then she learns that Ian needs a pilot. <br />Political intrigue, deadly intentions, and power struggles give the plot of STAR PRINCE the depth and passion that is fast becoming Susan Grant's trademark. Sexual tension between Ian and Tee begins to build early, adding a teasing and tantalizing tone throughout the narrative, but their relationship isn't consummated until extreme circumstances force extraordinary choices-the scene plays out with majesty and beauty seldom matched. The secondary plot also adds extraordinary pizzazz as tracker Lara attempts to resist the affections of both a ketta-cat and the sexy Gann, whose previous devotion to duty precluded relationships. Favorites likewise make appearances, including the macho Muffin and the great references to beer, now spreading throughout the galaxy. Put this one on your keeper shelf! Exotic and erotic, STAR PRINCE comes very highly recommended.	2002-02-04
1667708:US	49693975	R3ANZ2CRN7K6DP	0373244444	262832119	Rookie Cop (That's My Baby!) (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Reuniting lovers -- Highly recommended	History teacher Megan Cahill returns to the small town of Serenity, Texas in an effort to heal following the devastating loss of her baby and divorce from her husband. Wounded that the man she gave her heart was absent when she needed him most, and still grieving the loss of her infant, Megan does not allow anyone within her carefully erected defenses. Then someone abandons an infant on her doorstep, and Megan suddenly finds her heart on the line.<br />While she would like to pretend the child could replace her own lost child, Megan knows she can't keep him. But an overburdened foster care system allows her to care for the child while her ex-husband, sheriff Jake Cahill, investigates. Although Jake followed her to Serenity in an effort to win her back, Megan has declined his interest, believing his love for his former job will eventually lure him back to the big city and result again in long, absent nights. On the other hand, Jake has not given up on winning his former bride back; perhaps their joint efforts for this child will bring them together.<br />Stories that reunite lovers are especially endearing, especially when tragedy originally destroys the relationship and results in divorce. Certainly no one tells such a tale better than Nikki Benjamin in ROOKIE COP. Benjamin delicately balances the major plot of love, forgiveness and redemption with the secondary plot of the abandonment of an infant. Indeed, this marvelous author pulls no punches as she describes Megan's feelings of abandonment when her FBI husband puts his career ahead of his family. She likewise deftly reveals Jake's feelings of guilt and pain as he comes to understand the devastating effects of his actions on his ex-wife. ROOKIE COP comes highly recommended.	2002-02-04
1670677:US	49693975	R3MPFHZK1V1GZ3	0373272030	326720568	The Valentine Two-Step (Outlaw Hartes) (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Matchmaking and Hartes -- Very highly recommended	The Hartes of the Diamond Harte ranch, consisting of two brothers and a sister, are about to find love in the miniseries Outlaw Hartes. Their father was a descendant of Matt Warner, one of the original members of Butch Cassidy's gang, and was so enamored with outlaws that he named his children after them: Matthew Warner Harte, Jesse James Harte and Cassidy Harte. Single-parent Matt kicks off the series when his matchmaking daughter and her best friend spring a parent trap.<br />With the Valentine Day's carnival coming up, two forth-graders decide it's the perfect opportunity to play matchmakers so they can become sisters. So they volunteer their respective parents to serve on the Valentine Day committee. Matt Harte doesn't understand the bond that his daughter has formed with Ellie Webster's daughter over the last three months any more than he understands the outrageous veterinarian practices that she has brought from California. New Age treatments are a long way from acceptance in the small town of Star Valley, Wyoming, as reflected by Ellie's light patient load. In fact, Matt finds Ellie to be annoying, opinionated, and argumentative. And he's wildly attracted to her, something he believes he neither wants nor needs.<br />Ellie had grown tired of someone else determining her treatments, and jumped at the offer to buy the small veterinarian practice. As a foster child she had learned to love animals that give back unconditionally, and dreamed of some day living in a place like she has now purchased in Star Valley. She has seen treatments like acupuncture work well, and believes in using such methods when warranted by circumstances. Moreover, she treasures her independence, and works hard to preserve it. She intends to fight her attraction for Matt. He is just like all the other ranchers in the area: skeptical of her ability to perform her job and achieve results. Then one of Matt's horse's needs care above and beyond what traditional medicine can accomplish, givingEllie a chance to prove herself. But someone is watching who does not want Ellie in Star Valley, and will do anything to make her leave. <br />Like the lovely Disney film The Parent Trap, this parent trap works beautifully in THE VALENTINE TWO-STEP. Author RaeAnne Thayne has genuine understanding of children and how to make them both believable and entertaining. In addition, Matt is a wonderfully giving hero, eventually willing to risk everything despite having been burned badly. In fact, the story behind his marriage and the reason for his sister living with him gives the novel a nice punch. The unconventional treatments that initially alienate clients from Ellie's practice likewise add interest and an unexpected flair. Indeed, Thayne is a gifted storyteller whose realistic characters and absorbing dialogue weave a mesmerizing tale. A wonderful Valentine romance, THE VALENTINE TWO-STEP comes very highly recommended.	2002-02-01
1671540:US	49693975	R3LJNH4SVF7CAI	0373169035	45203628	Her Passionate Pirate	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Sizzling! Very highly recommended	Rafael Adriano recently discovered of the underwater site a ship portrayed in Greek myth. The scientific community's interest quickly gave way to general interest when a few spin-doctors capitalized upon his pirate good looks and romantic aura. Now he wants to find the remains of a Civil War clipper ship captained by the successful privateer Juan Rodiguez del Flores, and believes professor Cora Prescott holds the key. <br />Cora bought her home from the University where she teaches. The family of Abigail Conrad once owned her home. Abigail kept diaries of her illicit affair with a man she does not identify, but could easily have been Juan. Rafael believes those diaries may contain the knowledge needed to find the remains of the Juan's clipper ship. With the university bringing considerable pressure to bear upon her, Cora agrees to aid Rafael's quest, in return for a bit of help. Her sister's dumped her three daughters on Cora for the summer, and she needs a nanny. Along with searching the house for missing diaries, however, Rafael vows to awaken the smoldering passion carefully concealed beneath Cora's prudish demeanor.<br />The children, complete with Benedict Bunny and oyster spit, add a marvelously amusing element. They also cast the rogue pirate in a responsible, caring role as he lures them into good behavior or when he rescues the bunny. Author Neesa Hart displays her remarkable story telling skills with a careful balance between the secondary plot of a research project and the main plot of the growing romance between the staid professor and the swashbuckling rouge. The sophisticated Rafael allows their romance at unexpectedly slow, and sizzling pace without ever rushing his counterpart. He also discovers his intellectual and spiritual equal in the reticent professor, thereby lending the relationship a strong sense of balance. Moreover, despite a large and varied cast, characters appear fully developed with their own quirky personas without threatening to overwhelm the narrative. A wonderfully entertaining, sensual and seductive story, HER PASSIONATE PIRATE comes very highly recommended.	2002-02-01
1672148:US	49693975	R2PT0H71XPKCBG	0821772619	24786323	My Funny Valentine (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Highly recommended	MY FUNNY VALENTINE presents three heart-warming stories to bring a smile, or perhaps a tear, to the holiday. Authors Peggy Daniels, Allison Knight and Deborah Matthews bring their lovely talent together in this trio of treats certain to sweeten the approaching holiday. <br />CAN I CALL YOU SWEEETHEART? By Peggy Daniels: Four years ago Nicholas Parish left to fight in the Civil War, practically leaving Amber Wade at the altar on Valentine's Day. Now he returns to learn that his sweetheart married his brother and has a son. A tender, evocative tale certain to pluck the heartstrings, CAN I CALL YOU SWEETHEART copes with the pain of abandonment and the sweetness of learning to trust. <br />WINTER ROSES by Allison Knight: Gavin Sinclair is determined to thwart his younger brother's plans for elopement after the Valentine's ball. He thinks he's kidnapped the bride, but he really has the bride's older sister. WINTER ROSES is a charming regency romance that deftly breaks the rules of society in the most delightful manner.<br />BE MINE by Deborah Matthews: The Earl of Valentine curses the fool that gave his family their name. Even worse, his Aunt Cupid capitalizes upon her name by bringing lonely hearts together. Val makes a wager with his cousin that he can escape the marriage altar, but finds himself struck by Cupid's arrow aimed from an unlikely direction. A delectable, playful treat, BE MINE brings a comic chuckle to this collection.<br />Evocative, endearing, and tender, this collection is highly recommended.	2002-01-31
1672826:US	49693975	R3TSUGYDWPN2PE	0373271921	340681685	Truth About Elyssa (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Conditionally recommended	Scars left from a tragic accident denied Elyssa Jarmon the opportunity to return to her role in front of the camera. Indeed, she lost her job and her boyfriend in the same day when he tried to transfer from television to radio where the audience couldn't see her scars. Instead, Elyssa resumed a job she loved years ago, working as Lulu the Clown. Her favorite place to entertain kids is on the cancer ward of a nearby hospital, which is where she meets the pediatric oncologist Brett Cameron.<br />The beautiful reporter on the late news entranced Brett. When Elyssa disappeared from the screen, he didn't think much about it until she showed up regularly to perform the children in his care. Although she's extremely reticent about spending time with him, Brett is determined to know her better. Never mind he's decided that a busy career and family life don't mix, and that he's been terribly wounded by the loss of a wife and child. But as danger closes in and as Elyssa realizes the car wreck was no accident, Brett is swept away by the woman behind the clown makeup. <br />When Elyssa was initially injured, her fellow reporter Randy was driving the car. He was killed in the accident. A year and half later, his widow Jenny approaches Elyssa with her suspicions that the wreck was no accident. Someone wanted Randy's story stifled. Elyssa's eventual inquiry sets extreme danger into motion. <br />Author Lorna Michaels pens an intriguing romance about recovering from scars, both internal and external. Unfortunately, Elyssa comes across as superficial when the reader learns that \\"she wasn't disfigured\\". Her need for perfection also seems extremely superficial when her slight facial flaws are contrasted with a woman with a double mastectomy or children with cancer. However, Michaels does successfully balance Elyssa's superficiality when a surgeon promises better results toward the end of the book, and she declines, expressing satisfaction with her appearance. Also, I had a problem with Brett being so wildly attracted to a woman covered in clown makeup during the first month of their relationship, especially when she \\"smells like sex\\" after entertaining children for an hour. Nevertheless, I can't help loving a heroine able to wield a skillet her own defense. THE TRUTH ABOUT ELYSSA is recommended.	2002-01-31
1675382:US	49693975	RZ6HSOD6569GW	1586978160	74530003	Enemy Mine	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Memorable -- Highly recommended	Daughters of the night are expressly forbidden to love humans. The horror of the Blood Wars, when humans rose to fight the oppression and sacrifice to vampires, clearly demonstrated the dangers of the undead and human trying to coexist. <br />But there is one human who would not agree with history's lesson. Trained as a hunter, Preston Adams spent his entire life studying vampires. Indeed, his entire family, for many generations, has been devoted to the extermination of the undead. Nevertheless, Preston watches his victim, and comes to realize she doesn't fit the teachings he's received from his family. Gabrielle Warlock is different. She does not drink the blood of humans, despite the weaknesses her decision brings. Sacrificing everything, Preston vows to not only defy his family's order to kill her, but to become her protector. <br />Gabrielle is an outcast even among her own kind. A woman of ethics and strength, she is brought before the vampire Tribunal to withstand the charge of betraying vampires by consorting with a human. In exchange for her life, she must take Preston's life. As Preston and Gabrielle flee to preserve their lives, they must confront not only the enemy that should keep them apart, but also a past the binds them eternally. <br />Jewel Dartt's dark romantic fantasy explores the range of emotions that binds as well that which destroys, weaving a complex, rich tapestry of strength and beauty. Lovers of the paranormal take note, for this is definitely an author holding great promise. Indeed, this reviewer sincerely hopes to see much more of Dartt's children of the night and the hunters which persue them.	2002-01-29
1675754:US	49693975	RVJPYM57AMOWY	0821771736	396550785	Highland Lord (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Wonderful! Highly recommended	Fans of Colleen Faulkner's HIGHLAND LADY will easily recall the heroine's vicious sister Rosalyn and her plot to destroy those around her. Rosalyn had arranged her own kidnapping with the aid of Lord Munro Rancoff's younger brother, manipulating him to her will. At the conclusion of the novel, Monro's brother died and Rosalyn had been shipped off to a nunnery to live out her existence. Young Anne, the illegitimate daughter of King Robert the Bruce, had also arrived to wait for the time she's old enough for her father to marry her to an appropriate alliance. <br />HIGHLAND LORD begins eight years later when the bastard son of Munro arrives demanding acknowledgement. The son of a Norsewoman, Tor Henneson prepares to fight, to argue, and to overwhelm his father with his rage and resentment for the man he believes to have abandoned himself and his mother. Rather than questioning his son's claims, Munro immediately ascertains the truth of his son's words and accepts him as his son. Tor demands coin so that he might return to his mother's lands. Munro promises a rightful share of his wealth when Tor proves himself worthy to a Forret.<br />In the weeks that follow, Tor finds himself torn between his old heritage and this new one. He also finds himself quickly falling under the spell of the beautiful Anne. But Viking half-breeds aren't ordinarily allowed to marry daughters of kings, legitimate or not. But dark trechery once more brews in the highlands, threatening to lay waste to its lands and people in a bitter plot of revenge.<br />A richly textured novel, HIGHLAND LORD blends the strengths and the power of HIGHLAND LADY with a new generation. While strongly influenced by her guardians, Anne has her own independent ways. She doesn't wear the man's garb that Elen favors, yet she speaks her mind and maintains her independence admirably. Tor's initial anger and resentment mellows into a powerful yet loving character that will delight romance lovers. His newfound loyalties, his sense of responsibility toward his younger brothers, and his growing love and respect for his new family lends him a fascinating depth. Yet Tor also falls into the typical male approach to love, not recognizing a woman's desire for romantic displays of affection. After all, Vikings rule their women, and Viking women would never disagree with their mates.<br />The secondary plot will delight fans with the struggles of comparing a long-term relationship with the impetuous powers of a new love. Elen is still a fierce warrior woman who cares little for clean floors, yet is tempered by her passionate nature, wearing men's clothes and loving her husband deeply. She struggles with the changes that eight years make in a marriage, missing the passion of those first loving days; she struggles with the conflicts of duty and love that drain one's energy before going to bed at night. Her husband reveals the weaknesses many men fall into when in a comfortable relationship, neglecting to remind the woman of his heart that she is still the center of his world. Yet together, Elen and Monro give the novel a solid foundation for the fiery desires and independent thinking of young Anne and Tor. A wonderfully told tale of memorable characters, HIGHLAND LORD comes very highly recommended.	2002-01-29
1676120:US	49693975	R24ZLJ18H8HCE8	1582005699	450343473	Diana by the Moon [3 1/2 Diskette, HTML]	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very highly recommended	Fans of Tracy Cooper-Posey's diverse and unique work will be delighted to read her newest release, DIANA OF THE MOON. With the consummate skill readers have come to expect, Cooper-Posey presents a memorable tale of a woman's evolution.<br />Diana, daughter of the Roman Marcellus Aurelius, is named for the goddess of the moon and of the hunt. Alaric, a prince and cousin to Merlin, serves as an officer in his cousin Arthur the Pendragon's forces. If they survive, and if they can overcome their mutual enmities, they must find a way to link their destinies both for personal survival and for the survival of Britain.<br />The rise of Arthur brought forth the realization that the citizens of Britain who still viewed themselves as Roman citizens, as Diana's family does, must learn to look at old ways with new eyes or perish. Under Roman law a woman must marry or enter a convent when she passes marriageable age. Indeed, twenty-one year old Diana had preferred to lurk in the shadows and escape her parent's notice. But when a Saxon invasion deprives the family villa of all older members of the family, the governing of the land and its people falls to the previously ignored middle daughter. Over the course of a year, Diana creates a new place for herself in life as the leader and guardian of her household. Using her father's journals as guides, she ensures her people's survival in the face of starvation and invasion.<br />Arthur Pendragon brings a new hope for the future, according to Alaric. But when the soldier arrives, insistent upon setting one of a string of many beacons across Britain, Diana only acquiesces when Alaric threatens to use Roman law against her. Alaric warns of a Saxon invasion and works to unite the people of Britain under Arthur's protection. But the Roman inhabitants of Britain, abandoned for the last fifty years, still place their allegiance with Rome, scorning Britain's ... upstart.<br />Diana is outraged by the placement of the beacon upon her property.But she hasn't much choice when reminded that Roman women do not own property. Further, Diana soon will learn it isn't the British soldiers she need fear, but the plots of the other Roman citizens who view her position as weak, and her property ripe for the taking.<br />Diana's namesake, the old Roman goddess was both the hunter and the moon goddess. It will take all the skills both elements bring to overcome her adversaries, the threat of starvation, and a Saxon invasion. Not only must she protect those whom she shelters, but she must learn to trust herself and Alaric if she wishes to live a dream of equality rather than subservience. Rather than focusing on the past, as most Roman citizens do, Diana must learn to build a new future, and stay alive long enough to succeed.<br />Tracy Cooper-Posey has a remarkable narrative voice that lends itself perfectly to whatever genre she chooses. In her romantic tale EYES OF A STRANGER, her voice was smooth, silky with an underlying sensuality that bordered on decadence. Her Sherlock Holmes tale is almost appropriately British in tone; that is, very proper, logically articulate, and methodical.<br />With this marvelous tale she perfectly captures the strength of her incredible heroine in prose which is distinctive, sharp, crisp and yet powerfully feminine. This reviewer can hardly wait to see what genre this talent author tackles next; indeed, it seems nothing is beyond her pen's capacity.	2002-01-28
1677384:US	49693975	R2EGCUBZAHVTBW	1929613830	129717838	Faces of Fear	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Highly recommended	Fans of THE RHYTHM OF REVENGE will recognize the returning intrepid Detective Terry in FACES OF FEAR as once again Terry solves a puzzling case of murder.<br />Lepidopterophobia, the fear of butterflies, leads Patricia Miles to Dr. Joy Canova's office for treatment. Joy devotes her practice to curing patients of their phobias, suffering as a kindred spirit with a phobia of her own. <br />Her lover, Leo Croft, introduces Patricia to the doctor. She began the affair when she realized that her passionless marriage was rather inane, as her husband seemed to prefer stargazing alone to sharing her bed. Little does Patricia suspect that therapy can be deadly.<br />A person signing the name Shadoe sends threatening letters to two of Joy's patients before torturing them to death with their own phobias. Shadoe's cruel delight in these deaths demonstrates a bizarre and deviant mind, but leaves the police a puzzling lack of clues. <br />Even as Detective Terry struggles to find the killer, he also finds his personal life spinning wildly out of control, lending the depth of characterization that makes the good detective so much fun. The author's daring characterization, delightful dilemma, and good humor provide a nicely rich counterpoint to the gristly murders. <br />Christine Spindler's excellent story telling skills bring this murder mystery her signature crisp style and fast paced plot. Her daring homosexual detective makes for terrific reading, as does her obvious understanding of phobias. Her sharp attention to detail and twists of plot will keep the pages turning quickly, making FACES OF FEAR highly recommended.	2002-01-27
1677406:US	49693975	R29XCJJSWMWUI8	1931419183	664456562	Twice Dead	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very highly recommended	Mystery writer Taylor Madison returns for another outstanding mystery accompanied by her adorable pet ferret Hazel and a compelling cast of ecentric characters. Taylor enjoys living in small town Perdue, Texas. She is comfortably settled into a dating routine with the town's sexy sheriff, Cal Arnette, several months after solving the murder of Cal's predecessor. Hearing rumors a particularly promising garage sale, she convinces Cal to accompany her out to elderly Bo Posey's place. <br />Poking through old furniture, junk, and memories, Taylor finds a shocking surprise. Everyone assumed Bo's husband left town thirty-five years ago. Now Taylor finds his skeleton in the chimney of Bo's guesthouse, leaving the elderly to be the primary suspect in a murder investigation. Taylor's determined to prove Bo's innocence, and begins her own investigation. Her well-meaning interference triggers danger to Cal's career as sheriff as opportunists use the leaks of information for their own political purposes. Worse, it soon becomes apparent that someone's willing to kill to keep the secrets of the past buried. <br />Author Elizabeth Dearl creates a fast-paced mystery in TWICE DEAD. The multidimensional characterizations offer the plot interesting complexity, as each person slowly reveals secrets of the past. Indeed, TWICE DEAD brings the past and present into a collision course that supplies a surprising ending guaranteed to satisfy fans of mystery and suspense. Readers who enjoyed the first of this series, DIAMONDBACK, will delight in the increasing maturity of this author's style. New fans will find TWICE DEAD an excellent stand-alone. Very highly recommended.	2002-01-27
1677919:US	49693975	R1YVIZ2RGNODPN	0373710275	653818400	Just Around the Corner: Shelter Valley Stories (Harlequin Superromance No. 1027)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Something good is Just Around the Corner	Psychologist Phyllis Langford takes care of everyone, but allows no one to take care of her. She keeps everyone at an affectionate distance until a powerful, dangerous kiss beckons her into an illicit afternoon with sexy Matt Sheffield in the theater's sound-booth at Montford University. They had been working on a presentation she would give later that month until passion distracted them. The condom must have been damaged, and by October Phyllis discovers that she is pregnant. Fiercely independent, Phyllis plans to raise this child alone, although she does the right thing by informing Matt of his impending fatherhood.<br />Phyllis has been divorced for four years, and does not seek a proposal. She had wanted sex, not involvement, and declines Matt's offer of assistance until complications from the pregnancy force her acceptance. He insists on assuming financial responsibility, because the one thing he does have to give is money. Although her friends suggest that Matt is incapable of caring for anyone, Phyllis soon suspects this wounded man feels deeply. But Matt conceals a painful past, both as a child and unfortunate circumstance when taught theater at a high school, and does not feel worthy of Phyllis or is impending fatherhood, despite his growing feelings for both.<br />Pregnancy draws these two wounded people together in JUST AROUND THE CORNER, proving love and acceptance are closer than either suspected. Matt's background is unexpected, startling, and will strike a chord with empathetic readers. Phyllis reveals a less traumatic past, but one no less painful. Their growth is grudging and convincingly slow as they learn to trust themselves and each other. Quinn's use of dialogue, self-questioning, and complex situation results a highly believable tale. In addition, characters from other Shelter Valley stories move fluidly through the narrative, adding updates and connecting Phyllis to the small town without detracting from this book as a stand-alone. Once againTara Taylor Quinn proves her gift for weaving a tale of complexity and healing, proving there's always something good coming from JUST AROUND THE CORNER very highly recommended.	2002-01-27
1678397:US	49693975	R35TSMDQ4POWSG	1931419159	463485080	Blood, Threat & Fears	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Excellent novellas -- Very highly recommended	Avid Press recently released a collection of mysteries featuring four investigators certain to send readers in quest of longer works. <br />\\"The Ten-Spot Murders\\" by Robert L. Iles: The desperate secrets of a salesman come to light when his body's found outside his motel room. Set in Cass County, Ohio, the Sheriff's Department is crippled by a lack of budget and an overabundance of testosterone. Gritty and tense, the triangle formed by traveler, the motel handyman, a part-time prostitute, and the family of a prominent judge will hold the reader's attention riveted. <br />\\"Pangs of Prophesy\\" by Christine Spindler: When April comes to see Inspector Terry, she impresses him: \\"She was all muted gestures and self-effacing smiles, but she had a mind on the brink of another dimension.\\" All to true, since she has visions of violent and tragic deaths. Inspector Terry is a wonderful creation, always cheering the underdog and even befriending attack cats. Indeed, this novella is startling and skillfully rendered.<br />\\"Buyer's Remorse\\" by Elizabeth Dearl: When the new owner realizes the dilapidated of her bargain, she soon comes to regret her new purchase. While the old house has marvelous carpentry and incredible light for a studio, it also comes complete with its own mystery. Part ghost story and part thriller, this novella will keep readers up past their bedtimes. Believable characterizations, a haunted house, and a precocious and charming ferret create a fascinating and gripping narrative. <br />\\"The Santa Switch\\" by Dan Sontup: Two days before Christmas a Santa is found stabbed to death with scissors in the ladies' room of a shopping mall. The unlikely hero is a security chief with an associate's degree and a background as a New York City police officer. With an unusual cast of characters and a fast paced plot, the merry red of the holiday season carries whole new meaning.<br />A remarkable collection, BLOOD, THREAT & FEARS is a must read. Each exhibits the powerful writing that makes these authors favorites of mystery fans. Very highly recommended.	2002-01-26
1679002:US	49693975	R2ZG5P85NT6YL	0553276530	20498979	The Riders of the Sidhe (Sidhe Legends)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Terrific sci-fi and Celtic blend -- Very highly recommended	Beautifully graceful ships arrive at the isolated island, concealing an evil force led by a terrible being of sinister purpose. These attackers are the household troops of Balor One-Eye, a being so deadly that a look destroys. For fifteen years Queen Taillta and her soldiers have guarded a child, watching and waiting for this day when they would fight again.<br />The boy Lugh Lamfada escapes as the Queen's soldier's fight. His boat carries him to a fog enshrounded island of magic, protected by the sea-god Manannan MacLir. Manannan gives Lugh a quest designed to not only provide information, but also leads to self-discovery. Lugh must go to Eire to observe the the Tuatha de Darnann, enslaved by monstrous pirates called Fomor.<br />The Fomor are twisted and distorted men, damaged by the technology of their forebearers and lead by the inhuman Balor One-Eye. Balor perceives Lugh as a threat to his power and perhaps even to the Formor's very existance. Ancient prophesy predicts the youth who seeks his destiny and brings surival to the people he comes to love.<br />THE RIDERS OF THE SIDHE is Book One of The Gods of Eire trilogy. A gifted story teller, Kenneth C. Flint's prose sweeps the reader away on an epic journey to self discovery and the salvation of a people. A masterful blend of Celtic legend and science ficiton, this epic journey acheives an otherworldly, almost surreal flavor. Extraordinary heroism, the knowledge of druids, and the magic of bards provide an interesting and varied background. Originally printed by Bantum, this eBook version allow this marvelous tale to be shared once again at Awe-Struck E-Books.	2002-01-26
1680134:US	49693975	R2CYAHYPBSELO9	037325962X	894286951	Stetson On Her Pillow	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A tale of extreme contrasts -- Highly recommended	A four day undercover assignment posing as newlyweds proves that opposites attract. Clint Marshall has previously judged his partner Laura Carter by rumor and her Ice Princess appearance, but her actions give him reason to reevaluate his opinion. Beneath her prefect Bostonian pedigree and fluffy dog named Sweetums lies a hard working cop who earns her way to the top, rather than sleeping her way to the top as rumor has it. The realization only makes Laura more attractive.<br />Laura has spent months fantasizing about Clint's Stetson on her pillow. She can't imagine anything sexier than a cowboy in her bed, but no man is allowed past her permafrost exterior. Like her mother, men are her weakness, so Laura copes by not dating and focused exclusively on her career. Clint is the only man who ever made her want to shed her stuffy socialite appearances. But when the undercover assignment ends, Clint plans to become the sheriff his small Texan hometown, leaving the Windy City and the socialite far behind. <br />Author Molly Liholm brings her love of word play and quirky sense of humor to A STETSON ON HER PILLOW. The renaming of Two Horse Junction to just about every conceivable animal will keep the reader smiling, and prevents taking this improbable plot too seriously. Silly moments interspersed with tremendous passion lend the novel a pleasing, entertaining quality with surprising twists and turns to maintain a quick pace. Entertaining and amusing, A STETSON ON HER PILLOW comes highly recommended.	2002-01-25
1681178:US	49693975	R213DAAA9TMRGX	0373217269	478206823	Cowboy Country (By Request 2'S)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Harlequin republished two wonderful romances by Judith Bowen and Renee Roszel in the volume COWBOY COUNTRY. Both originally published in 1996, this republication will delight those of us who missed these wonderful cowboy romances the first time. Strong heroines, sexy cowboys, and wide-open spaces give room for the heart to learn to love in extraordinary circumstances in this award winning collection.<br />THE MAN FROM BLUE RIVER: At thirty-six, Martha Thomas biological clock kicks into overdrive when she's downsized from the job she loves and her life sudden feels very empty. She takes a break in a diner from her drive from Wisconsin to the coast and chances to see a help wanted ad for a \\"Lady Companion.\\" It's a long way from a high profile position at the Post to Lady Companion, but one glimpse of two girls who really need her, and Martha's hooked. The cowboy is might be a bit hard on the heart, though. <br />Judith Bowen's gift for creating strong, intelligent, savvy heroines sparkles in THE MAN FROM BLUE RIVER. Bowen deftly captures the conflict and concern of children who've been abandoned by their mother, from the little lies the children tell to the guarded revelations of their step-in father. Powerful love, fierce protectiveness and heart-wrenching vulnerabilities make this an extraordinary read. <br />TO LASSO A LADY: Amy Vale meets Ira Diablo in a cocktail lounge where she served drinks and pocketed tips to pay her kid sister's medical bills. It takes a while for Ira to convince her that his proposal is sincere, but she does eventually accept this marriage of convenience since she's always been skeptical of love anyway. A blizzard causes Ira's son Beau Diablo to pick her up at the bus station since he lives much closer to it than his father. Weeks of snowy conditions keep her there, proving her ability to work hard and inability to guard her heart from this beautiful devil.<br />This is my first introduction to author Renee Roszel, but I will certainly be watching for her name in the future. Heroine Amy Vale's dogged determination despite taunts and hostility to prove herself capable of being a rancher's wife makes her an extraordinary heroine. Tromping through the snow at five a.m. or tossing hay from the bed of a pickup, this city girl works hard and demonstrates the best of intentions despite the hero's skeptical and cynical responses. Roszel proves that even buses can be romantic!	2002-01-24
1682716:US	49693975	R21ESA6MMYBBSI	0505523043	777281387	Shielder (Shielder Series, Book 1)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Add this one to your keeper shelf -- Very highly recommended	Absolutely memorable! Very highly recommended<br />With the future of her entire race at stake, outcast Nessa dan Ranul volunteers to become a live host to a deadly virus. Her mission is to make her way to the Shielder colony in the Sonoma galaxy because they would most likely to be able to create an anecdote. Shielders have long been the targets of Controllers because they have the ability to shield their minds from the Controllers telekinetic control. When the Controllers failed in other methods of eradicating her people, they developed the deadly Orana virus to their dirty work. Now Nessa has only four weeks before the virus will manifest itself. She takes nothing with her except a meager store of supplies and Turi, her affectionate and protective Lanrax pet. <br />Only two days in space, and her decrepit spacecraft breaks down, leaving Nessa at the mercy of whoever passes by. A Shadower, or bounty hunter, grudgingly comes to Nessa's rescue. Nessa fears that if Chase McKnight, the ship's captain, learns her true identity, he will turn her over to the Controllers. She claims to be on a religious pilgrimage to Zirak, a planet system close to the Sonoma galaxy. Despite their mutual attraction, Nessa does not dare tell Chase the true reason for their journey. Intent upon his own agenda of revenge, he continually deviates from their flight path in pursuit of those who destroyed his own colony. Desperate to reach Sonoma before the illness becomes active, Nessa continually attempts to escape, building Chase's distrust of her. <br />With a remarkably complex, yet seamless woven plot, SHIELDER will delight futuristic romance fans. Author Christine Spangler creates a horrifying and believable background with strong motivations for these memorable characters. In addition, Nessa's love for her Lanrax its endearing protectiveness add an endearing sparkle - be sure to keep the hankies close. While Spangler's novel is futuristic, with the sci-fi toys that make such reading fun,it is also marvelously original and markedly different from the traditional fair. Both the hero and heroine's growth as characters, Chase as he learns to accept his gifts and Nessa as she gains self-acceptance and self-love, brings the novel both sensual heat and the reader's empathy. Destined to become a classic, SHIELDER comes very highly recommended.	2002-01-23
1682963:US	49693975	R2O8UL2A719HAT	1586979035	502269447	Death Awaits	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fascinating complexity -- Very highly recommended	Self-employed dog walker Susan Brown returns a wolfhound to a New York apartment when sees her client still sitting in his favorite chair with a bullet hole in his forehead. She locks eyes with the cold blue eyes of the killer, still holding the gun, before fleeing back down the apartment hallway. As a witness to murder, survival depends upon how quickly she can retrieve her son and outrun the killer before she becomes another of his victims.<br />At the foot of the stairs, Susan careens into a man. Although she feels an immediate jolt of recognition, Susan doesn't let it distract her from her purpose as she races out the door. Later she will realize the man was the brother of her son's deceased father. Mitch Pellagrino was staking out the building with his partner, supposedly keeping the victim safe until he testifies in a major criminal trial. Only a professional could have slipped past their defenses, and then only with the help of a dirty cop.<br />On the surface, the plot seems deceptively simple in Beverley Bateman's DEATH AWAITS. But Bateman weaves a plot of rich intensity, as surprising depth and unexpected elements lend fascinating complexity. Departmental leaks, overwhelming attraction, and secrets regarding the past bind Sarah and Mitch in a web of deceit and temptation. The tangled emotions and romantic elements only heighten the horror of being stalked by a contract killer. In addition, the young child Hank is charmingly represented, as is the wonderful wolfhound. The overall suspenseful tone builds to a crescendo that will have readers reading with all the lights on. DEATH AWAITS comes very highly recommended.	2002-01-23
1682978:US	49693975	R2RX0R1N2R3APR	193092870X	997918710	The Peacekeepers	Books	3	1	1	N	N	When cultures clash -- Recommended	When the Peacekeeper falls ill and dies, the responsibility falls to Nimri to take up her grandfather's Tribe's Staff of Peace and fulfill the duties as a Chatterre Peacekeeper. Unfortunately, Nimri's grandfather jealously guarded his power and failed to train her for the role. Worse, she did not inherit his magical abilities and knows only the powers of healing.<br />Meanwhile, several galaxies away, the Shadow Warrior Colonel Larwin Atano crashes onto a inhospitable planetoid when his spacefighter is damaged by a dragon-like being. He and his android GEA-4 seek shelter deep below the surface of the planetoid a portal connects Nimri to the planetoid, and she unknowingly falls into his world startling them both.<br />Nimri believes that Larwin is a god sent to save her people from a rival tribe across the river. Larwin's home world has destroyed their eco system and measures wealth by the plant life kept within their buildings. He sees invasion of Nimri's world as a way to provide much needed resources to his home world as well as promotions and wealth for himself. Little do either Nimri or Larwin suspect that danger lies from a much more dangerous foe. <br />THE PEACEKEEPERS by Jeanne Foguth presents a fascinating mythology as two cultures collide. Unfortunately, readers may find themselves challenged to like the main characters of this book. The hero, who is intent upon invasion and increasing his wealth, fails to appreciate the inherent of a world and people untamed. Indeed, his self-serving motives leave the reader wondering if Nimri would want him if she understand the meaning of his words. <br />On the other hand, Nimri is a heroine defined by lack in the first half of the book. She doesn't know how to connect to her powers, nor does she believe herself worthy of the role of the Peacekeeper. Although self-doubt builds sympathy in the reader, that self-doubt also makes her a weak character during the first half of the book.<br />Perhaps the most charming and creative characters aren't the humans at all. The telepathic lion Kazza and the android GEA-4 will charm readers with their quirkiness humor. Recommended.	2002-01-23
1683049:US	49693975	R9FLLODZ9UAP1	0517669129	83346943	Cat Signs: How To Know Your Cat's Personality	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fun and useful resource -- Very highly recommended	Being owned by 24 cats can present quite a challenge. With so many disparate personalities among the cats, I am always looking for books that offer insight, hoping that through understanding harmony can be achieved. While I can't report perfect harmony, I can report that matching the cats' sun signs to their personalities has provided interesting and useful information.<br />For persons who don't know their cat's birthday, behavior easily will match their sun sign. All humans will find the information useful in gaining a better understanding of their cat's behavior as well as insight into personality quirks. The illustrations are wonderfully drawn, and I admit to being quite delighted when I turned to the Taurus page. Not only does my Dickens match the Taurus description perfectly, but he's the match for the illustration as well, right down to the perfect black beauty mark over his mouth. SUN SIGNS also includes information into making successful matches between cat signs and human signs as well as amusing stories of cats to accompany each sign. A wonderful resource, SUN SIGNS comes highly recommended. <br />Bright Blessings,<BR>Weaver	2002-01-23
1683179:US	49693975	ROVW8GW9P0BXQ	0373271883	472423328	Born Royal (Firstborn Sons) (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Terrific series finale -- Very highly recommended	The citizens of Tamir celebrate when Prince Rashid ibn Ahmed Kamal's announcement of his impending marriage to Princess Julia Sebastiani. He only neglected one important detail - securing the Princess' agreement first. When Julia reads of her impending nuptials in a newspaper, outrage does not begin to cover the gamut of emotions she feels.<br />Julia vows she will never marry the son of her father's sworn enemy. The accusations and counter-accusations between the Kamals and the Sebastianis prevents anyone from knowing the truth of the origin of the family feud. Despite his father's feelings, Prince Rashid vows to end the family feud. If he must investigate the past to secure a future with the Princess, then so be it. The peace between two countries depends upon his destermination.<br />Author Alexandra Sellers brings her remarkable talent for writing about the sexy men of the desert to bear once again in BORN ROYAL, the concluding novel of the Firstborn Sons continuity. Prince Rashid is every woman's dream: intelligent, sexy and romantic. He keeps proposing again and again, despite the very public headlines about the princess' refusal. His match in every way, Princess Julia provides a delightful, if hardheaded, counterpart.<br />Further, Sellers approaches the challenges of writing the concluding segment even as she introduces another series with aplomb. The careful tying up of loose ends as well as seamless inclusion of preparatory details never interrupts the flow of the narrative. In addition, BORN ROYAL takes several delightful twists that make it an exciting and dynamic read. Tempestuous, tempting and sinful, BORN ROYAL comes very highly recommended.	2002-01-23
1683198:US	49693975	R1TBU35NG1DGS6	1588206920	376951725	American Values in Decline: What We Can Do	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Thought provoking - Very highly recommended	William M. Fox presents an overview of the values Americans hold in common and what we can do to nurture them in ourselves and others in AMERICAN VALUES IN DECLINE: WHAT WE CAN DO. In a book rich with historical context, modern examples, and elaborate documentation, Fox examines the core values that bind our great nation together and the results of the current erosion to those values. More importantly, he provides thought provoking ideas and proven examples for reversing the moral decline in America.<br />Such values as honesty, freedom to inquire, freedom of speech, freedom of thought, justice and respect for human dignity were the core values handed down from the founders of our nation. Unfortunately, duty, honesty, integrity and responsibility are currently being replaced by predatory and self-destructive behaviors and the long-term inability to support oneself. Saving for the future has been replaced by the need for immediate gratification. Extended families have been replaced by broken homes, absent fathers, and single-mothers. The consequence of the breakdown of values is a dependency and lawlessness our country cannot afford. <br />Fox argues that despite the melting pot of ethnic backgrounds, religious beliefs, and political affiliations, commitment to certain core values binds the people of the United States together. Our current shift from a nation with a common destiny to the individualistic satisfaction of desires has resulted in a decline that threatens the basic foundations of our nation. Individual rights do not negate individual responsibility. Handouts should be replaced with opportunities for learning self-sufficiency. Ethical and legal judgments must be made with common sense and could of society in mind. <br />William Fox's extraordinary book AMERICAN VALUES IN DECLINE: WHAT WE CAN DO is a must read for every American. While I don't necessarily agree with every solution, for example paying young girls to not get pregnant, his ideas and examples of what already works make for a thought provoking and intriguing discussion. While Fox's treatise is not the type of reading I usually enjoy, I found myself quickly caught up in Fox's prose as he lays out the historical and cultural ramification of values. His examples are concrete, with thought provoking ideas that quickly inspired me to consider my own situation, family and work world. Remarkably approachable, AMERICAN VALUES IN DECLINE: WHAT WE CAN DO comes very highly recommended.	2002-01-23
1683334:US	49693975	R1I7B0DQOSJ80I	037376412X	662482271	Tall, Dark & Royal (Dynasties: The Connellys) (Harlequin Desire)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	A terrific beginning to a new continuity	In Silhouette Desires' first year long continuity, TALL, DARK & ROYAL introduces a prominent Chicago family with links to European blood lines. With the death of Princess Emma's father and brother, her eldest son is next in line for the throne. Currently the vice-president of Connelly Corporation, Daniel's life will be transformed with his ascent to the throne.<br />While he intends to take a hands-on approach to ruling, others would prefer to convince Daniel to relinquish his power and function as a figurehead. Indeed, his background as football player has led his adversaries to grossly underestimate Daniel's abilities. Daniel considers his ascent to the crown a matter of honor and duty, accepting the extraordinary changes in life with grace, including the need to learn the traditional etiquette of his people. <br />\\"Royal etiquette and palace liaison\\" Erin Lawrence arrives to instruct the future king. Her intensions to follow proper protocol often fail with Daniel's easygoing attitudes and insistence upon speaking honestly. Despite her prim polish, however, Erin is perceived as an innocent and forbidden by Daniel. Unfortunately, Erin is also a woman with torn loyalties. She comes to believe in Daniel's sincere concern for her people even as father insists that Erin persuade Daniel to not assume the crown.<br />Dynamic characters and endearing scenes make Leanne Banks TALL, DARK & ROYAL a marvelous read. Erin's prissy prim and proper behavior contrasts sharply with American casual and forthright manners. The result is often amusing, at times unexpected, and always delightful. The underlying plot of divided loyalties give TALL, DARK & ROYAL added punch as cultures and family loyalties clash. A terrific beginning to what promises to be an entertaining continuity, TALL, DARK & ROYAL comes very highly recommended.	2002-01-23
1683514:US	49693975	R9SF31YWYP0UG	0741406993	464718661	First Season	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Dramatic and endearing - Very highly recommended	Independent thinking Fantine Delmere doesn't like her family's subsistence on the Earl of Ashcom. A wrong done to her family three generations ago has been overly compensated to her way of thinking. Perhaps if her father had to earn a living for his family his hands wouldn't have time to itch for gaming cards and his heart would appreciate his delicate wife. So when she learns of her father's plan to solicit the patronage of the Earl so she can attend her first London Season, Fantine feels outraged. Unfortunately, Fantine takes her frustration out on the wrong man.<br />The Earl of Ashcom has grown accustomed to mamas fawning over his wealth for their daughters and is ill prepared for Fantine outrageous attitude. He arrives at the Delmere home intending to see if the girl merits the expense of a Season in London. Rather gracious acceptance of his magnanimity, however, Fantine treats the Earl with disdain. Furious at her attitude, the Earl serves her with an ultimatum. Either she attends the Season and secure another means of support for her family, or he'll see the family's estate.<br />Fantine is ill prepared for life with the London elite. While \\"Aunt Dorothy\\" has her best interests at heart, others would prefer she return to obscurity. Indeed, selfish and cruel forces are at work, and will stop at nothing to achieve their ends. As animosity between the Earl and Fantine gives way to deeper feelings, disturbing events occur which threaten her safety. <br />Author and artist Gloria Gay brings dramatic flair to FIRST SEASON. Appearances of such persons as Brummell, Prinny, and Sally Jersey lend authenticity to the background. The novel unfolds much as a dramatic play with intrigue to add spice to the tale of love and a girl's First Season in London. Gay creates a delightful heroine with Fantine, as she is a young woman who knows her own mind. Intelligent, insightful, and passionate, Fantine occasionally acts precipitously, but never without cause. Further, Gay peoples her story with a lively cast of secondary characters, including the loving Aunt Dorothy and the dangerous Lady Vladim. Rich characterization and fascinating intrigue will appeal to all romance lovers as well as those who have a passion for Regency romance. A masterful piece of writing, FIRST SEASON comes very highly recommended.	2002-01-23
1684972:US	49693975	RUMVNEF1VYQ57	0373834977	862913148	Sealed With A Kiss	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Hearts, flowers and dreams -- Very highly recommended	Hearts and flowers become the substance of dreams in Harlequin's Valentine collection SEALED WITH A KISS. Authors Debbie Macomber, Judith Bowen and Helen Brooks bring their marvelous talent together in this medley of treats certain to sweeten the approaching holiday.<br />\\"My Funny Valentine\\" by Debbie Macomber: The victim of her mother's and her children's well meaning matchmaking, Dianne Williams has been declaring for weeks that she can find her own date to the Valentine banquet. Out of desperation, Dianne pays a sexy tow truck driver to escort to her banquet. Now she finds herself overwhelmed by a fierce desire for more than just the services originally agreed upon.<br />\\"Mom and Mr. Valentine\\" by Judith Bowen: Professional hockey player Patrick McCarthy has been nicknamed Mr. Valentine for his role in becoming some lucky lady's Valentine date in a charity raffle. Unfortunately, before he can fulfill his role for the forth year, a devastating injury takes him off the ice and has him house sitting for a couple weeks next door to Lisa Hudson. Lisa's son idolizes Patrick; whereas, he represents everything Lisa abhors -- too bad that her attraction to him makes her feelings that much more complicated.<br />\\"Her Secret Valentine\\" by Helen Brooks: Five years of working in the same law firm has not decreased Jeanie's love for Ward Ryan. Unfortunately, he thinks of her as buddy; that is, until he unexpected finds her crying after an office party. Deliberate misrepresentation regarding the identity of the man who provokes such tears leaves Jeanie in a delicious conundrum as Ward begins efforts to prove she deserves better treatment that she's receiving from the lout who makes her cry. <br />Single parents find their paths to love that last beyond Valentine's Day in SEALED WITH A KISS. From the US, to Canada, to England, these Valentine couples discover the joy of love, where it begins with the guy in a tow truck, the guy house sitting next door, or the guy at the office.Old love or new love, impossible or improbable, each story delights and entertains with memorable individual voices coming together in a harmonious collection. Very highly recommended.	2002-01-22
1685725:US	49693975	R2JGIC3TS5DM7G	193092870X	997918710	The Peacekeepers	Books	3	4	4	N	N	When cultures clash -- Recommended	When the Peacekeeper falls ill and dies, the responsibility falls to Nimri to take up her grandfather's Tribe's Staff of Peace and fulfill the duties as a Chatterre Peacekeeper. Unfortunately, Nimri's grandfather jealously guarded his power and failed to train her for the role. Worse, she did not inherit his magical abilities and knows only the powers of healing.<br />Meanwhile, several galaxies away, the Shadow Warrior Colonel Larwin Atano crashes onto a inhospitable planetoid when his spacefighter is damaged by a dragon-like being. He and his android GEA-4 seek shelter deep below the surface of the planetoid a portal connects Nimri to the planetoid, and she unknowingly falls into his world startling them both.<br />Nimri believes that Larwin is a god sent to save her people from a rival tribe across the river. Larwin's home world has destroyed their eco system and measures wealth by the plant life kept within their buildings. He sees invasion of Nimri's world as a way to provide much needed resources to his home world as well as promotions and wealth for himself. Little do either Nimri or Larwin suspect that danger lies from a much more dangerous foe. <br />THE PEACEKEEPERS by Jeanne Foguth presents a fascinating mythology as two cultures collide. Unfortunately, readers may find themselves challenged to like the main characters of this book. The hero, who is intent upon invasion and increasing his wealth, fails to appreciate the inherent of a world and people untamed. Indeed, his self-serving motives leave the reader wondering if Nimri would want him if she understand the meaning of his words. <br />On the other hand, Nimri is a heroine defined by lack in the first half of the book. She doesn't know how to connect to her powers, nor does she believe herself worthy of the role of the Peacekeeper. Although self-doubt builds sympathy in the reader, that self-doubt also makes her a weak character during the first half of the book.<br />Perhaps the most charming and creative characters aren't the humans at all. The telepathic lion Kazza and the android GEA-4 will charm readers with their quirkiness humor. Recommended.	2002-01-21
1686972:US	49693975	R3IDKLMC5GPOCN	0373271948	413209846	The Man Who Would Be King	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Great fun! Highly recommended	Author Linda Turner premiers the new twelve-book adventure Romancing the Crown with THE MAN WHO WOULD BE KING. Fans of last years' series FIRSTBORN SONS will welcome the return of the influence of Montebello where lives and hearts are transformed. THE MAN WHO WOULD BE KING kicks off this year's series with proof that the missing Prince Lucas Sebastiani, the firstborn of King Marcus and Queen Gwendolyn of Montebello and heir to the throne, still lives. When proof of the prince's survival falls into the hands of reporter Eliza Windmere, she begins an odyssey that will change her life forever.<br />Moments before King Marcus announces his successor, given his son's presumed death, Eliza bursts into the palace with proof that Prince Lucas survived his plane crash. The King asks Duke Lorenzo Sebastiani to reopen the investigation. Lorenzo's animosity toward Eliza is understandable, as he believes she seeks nothing but headlines. Nevertheless, he agrees to accompany Eliza back to Colorado to personally investigate the site where new evidence has been found. In return for granting Eliza an exclusive, she agrees to protect the details of the investigation until Lucas can be found. <br />Turner pens a lively romance in THE MAN WHO WOULD BE KING. Eliza's determination to gain access to the King and Queen's palace as well as her ethical handling of the facts of the pursuit lend her a strength of character that is at once entrancing and admirable. As Lorenzo's irritation gives way to attraction, his transformations are delightful. Further, one of the best scenes of the books is when he buys \\"new\\" clothes at Goodwill so that he can go undercover. Turner's skill at bringing these scenes to life gives the text a vivacious flair.<br />The first book of such a broad sweeping series must, by necessity, include the tidbits that pave the way for subsequent books. Turner successfully blends many telling tidbits into her narrative, rising to the challenge without loosing the pace and impetus that keeps her own story moving a sound clip with only one or to slight pauses. The fascinating hints at future players and intrigue will certainly keep this reviewer interested in upcoming additions. Highly recommended.	2002-01-20
1687230:US	49693975	R2GZNEBBINQQHK	0373764081	300761917	Did You Say Twins?! (The Fortunes Of Texas: The Lost Heirs) (Harlequin Desire)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	It sparkles! Very highly recommended	Shelves of baby food overwhelm Gunnery Sergeant Sam Pearce. He understands top-secret military maneuvers, but supermarket selections for tikes are beyond his experience. So when old flame Michelle Guillaire spies his dilemma, she quickly steps in with her assistance. Not only does Michelle lend aid and rescue in the supermarket, but while Sam flies to Hawaii to retrieve his twin goddaughters, Michelle also spruces up his house and baby-proofs it. <br />Sam ingeniously labels the baby's feet with their names to tell them apart when he flies them home from Hawaii, even as he heroically defends them from grouches. Despite his successful transformation to &quot;Sergeant Mom,&quot; however, Sam needs help. Once again Michelle volunteers her services, generously providing her babysitting and housekeeping skills. Even as she's liberal with her time, however, Michelle seems incredibly reticent in repairing her relationship with Sam. And now Sam wants to know why.<br />Author Maureen Child creates a wonderful romance in DID YOU SAY TWINS?! As these twin girls turn the lives of Sam and Michelle upside down, they also provide the impetuous for healing old wounds. Sam's desire to understand the past and Michelle's overachieving in baby preparation result in delightful characterizations that simply sparkle. Once again Child demonstrates her consummate skill at playing upon our deepest emotions with her captivating and endearing tale. This poignant tale of love and laughter comes very highly recommended.	2002-01-20
1687324:US	49693975	R3S40TKG0VSGBJ	0373169051	502886318	Quadruplets on the Doorstep	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Lively and entertaining -- Recommended	A widowed teen abandons her quadruplets at Maitland Maternity leaving only a note requesting that nurse April Sullivan adopt her children. Despite the mother's wishes, Social Services does not believe a single young nurse can adequately provide for the children, and plans to remove them from her temporary care. April grew up in foster homes and will do whatever it takes to spare the children her experiences.A bit shocked and overwhelmed by the turn of events, April nonetheless dedicates herself to preparing her life for motherhood while hoping the mother either reconsiders or can be located.<br />Caleb McCallum has a remarkable gift of empathy that served him well in his pursuit of subjects when he was a police officer. His partner's death resulted in his resignation from the force. Now father has requested a private investigation in search of the missing mother of the quadruplets. It's not hard for him to understand the widowed mother's fears, and his compassion is matched only by his determination to help April with the children. Knowing the child welfare system, Caleb knows marriage is April's only hope of winning custody. Despite his head's knowledge their arrangement is temporary and April resists commitment on any level not related to the children, Caleb's heart desperately fears losing her. <br />The Maitland Maternity series continues with QUADRUPLETS ON THE DOORSTEP by Tina Leonard. A lively, entertaining romance, QUADRUPLETS ON THE DOORSTEP captures not only the joys and challenges of caring for four infants, but also the dangerous emotional waters and depths such care entails. Gentle compassion of the birthmother balances the desire of this hopeful adoptive mother. Indeed, the desires of the heart never prevents April's expectations for the mother to be found, making her quite an admirable heroine since she'd love nothing more than to keep the children herself. Spunky, intelligent and resourceful, April is a strong heroine evenly matched by Caleb McCallum. Caleb's white knight complex feels a bit exaggerated, yet understandable in light of his past. A wonderfully entertaining read, QUADRUPLETS ON THE DOORSTEP comes recommended.	2002-01-20
1687449:US	49693975	R2ZUS2LRRJVHVZ	0373259603	708541875	Moonstruck In Manhattan (Single In The City)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Vivacious and sparkling! Very highly recommended	Reporter Chelsea Brockway is a skeptical that a skirt can become a man-magnet, despite her best friend's claims. But when she catches the skirt, in lieu of the bridal bouquet, at her friend's wedding, Chelsea sees it as an opportunity to further her career. She spins several fun articles around the man-magnet skirt, three of which capture the eye of an editor at Metropolitan magazine. <br />Chelsea's plans come to a screeching halt, however, when Zach McDaniel takes over the helm of Metropolitan, planning to steer the magazine away from sensationalism in an effort to attract a highbrow audience. Although he intends sweeping changes in the magazine, he finds himself drawn into the skirt's allure. Chelsea persuades him to take a bet: If she can convince him of the skirt's allure, he'll print her article. If she can't, she'll walk away from the contract without pay. Zach accepts, figuring he can't loose.<br />Cara Summers' vivacious voice sparkles in MOONSTRUCK IN MANHATTAN. Her skillful manipulation of humor, implausibility, and love result in novel that is both smoothly sensual, and excitingly fabulous. Indeed, this unexpectedly thrilling plot combines with a sizzling romance guaranteed to add heat to the season's cold winter nights. Once again Summers demonstrates her mastery of the written word, making MOONSTRUCK IN MANHATTAN come very highly recommended.	2002-01-20
1687520:US	49693975	RN1U22FLA9F5I	0373169086	364626855	High - Society Bachelor	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Light and amusing -- Recommended	Following the end of her two year engagement, Deborah Clark grows weary of assuring everyone of her well-being. When her former mother-in-law-to-be pushes a bit too hard, Deborah tells a small, white lie. She says she's seeing a man who has offices in her building, Cameron Lyle. Deborah's shocked when he shows up on the doorstep to see his &quot;girlfriend&quot;. <br />For weeks Cameron's tried to get Deborah out of his head. The ring on her finger irritates him, but no more than her incessant chatter. When he can't free himself of her spell any other way, Cameron decides the answer is in over exposure. He'd make sure that Deborah spends enough time with him that it drives him crazy. That should end him his problem, and he knows just the way to make it happen.<br />Author Krista Thoren pens an amusing, character driven romance in HIGH-SOCIETY BACHELOR. Playing on the expectations of her hero and heroine, the tale becomes a fun romp with clashes of will and blinding attraction. This spirited and sassy heroine gives as good as she takes, keeping the hero off balance in the most delightful of ways, thereby undercutting his jaded and cynical tendencies. In addition, one of the fun inclusions of HIGH-SOCIETY BACHELOR is Libby the Wondercat, who snores and cannot climb trees. Such details give the novel a delightful spin. HIGH-SOCIETY BACHELOR comes recommended.	2002-01-20
1689674:US	49693975	R1Q2H27WYOWTJT	0373169078	312257915	Pregnant And Incognito	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Exhilarating! Highly recommended	Day Quinlan dazzles talk show audiences for eight years until she announced she was not renewing her contract during a live broadcast. When she slips into the limo waiting in front of the studio for the last time, Day Quinlan ceases to exist. In her place is the pregnant Dana Cantrell, now living in a remote cabin in Cougar Creek, Arizona. There Dana attempts to recover from betrayal, rediscovering an identity far apart from the sparkling world she once inhabited.<br />Three months after moving to Cougar Creek, Dana is out hiking when she finds a wounded hawk. She gets too close and receives a vicious peck before master falconer Connor McTavish can warn her away. Dana and Connor have much in common. They both are wounded, having walked away from careers that once meant everything. But they keep their pasts carefully concealed, even as circumstances draw them together. Unfortunately, those pasts will prove quite divisive when they come to light.<br />Hawks become a symbol of freedom and choice in Pamela Browning's PREGNANT AND INCOGNITO. As their mutual love for hawks draws Connor and Dana together, they are each faced with their own challenges that hold them captive. Although Connor at times appears too overbearing in the early part of the book, he softens considerably as he rediscovers forgotten social skills and as the relationship between himself and Dana grows. Dana is a wonderfully convincing character, especially when illness strips her of her proper social veneer and she becomes a typical out of control hormonal woman. Connor's reactions to her hormonal tirade are likewise typically male until he gets a grip on them - providing delightful entertainment for the reader. Indeed, much of the plot in the early part of the book feels a bit predictable, but the second half presents some delightful and unexpected plot twists. Highly recommended.	2002-01-18
1689676:US	49693975	R3J6C3ODMV5QJQ	0373271980	573562031	The Nanny's Secret (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Terrific use of amnesiac plot -- Very highly recommended	After two weeks of sympathizers parading through Brooks Hart's Triple H Ranch in Wister, Wyoming, the sympathy has begun to feel like salt rubbed in an old wound. His elder brother had absented himself from the family for eighteen years, suddenly appearing on the doorstep with an eight-month-old baby named Timmy and ill tales regarding his ex-wife, nicknamed the Blond Widow. It seems that his prodigal brother had become a lawman in Vegas where he met a gorgeous cocktail waitress, but their tragic marriage only resulted in one bright spot-a beautiful baby that was subsequently abandoned by his mother. Two weeks ago his brother committed suicide, leaving his son with his brothers on the Triple H Ranch.<br />When Brooks arrives home to an open door, he finds a woman sleeping in his great room. Assuming she's the promised nanny the Hart brothers have been waiting for, Brooks calls her Amelia Rigsby. Amelia's obviously been in accident and received a blow to the head. She has a huge bump on her forehead and seems to be suffering from amnesia. She also has an instant affinity for Timmy, and her help is welcome since he's turned their lives upside down in only four short weeks. Soon Brooks finds Amelia turns his life upside down as well with her gentle understanding, resilience in coping with amnesia, and fierce determination to help around the ranch.<br />Author Monica McLean pens a wonderful romance with THE NANNY'S SECRET. Unlike many romances that use amnesia as an excuse for needy dependence, THE NANNY'S SECRET uses amnesia as an impetus for self-exploration and healing. Brooks is an interesting character with his determination to repeat his father's mistakes, and his gentle handling of the heroine during the concluding chapters is remarkable. Where many authors would have resorted to recriminations and doubts when Amelia's identity is revealed, McLean again transforms the situation into an opportunity for healing and growth. A remarkable tale beautifully told, THE NANNY'S SECRET comes very highly recommended.	2002-01-18
1689876:US	49693975	R2TYRCVL2JH7QW	0373790252	685841904	Acting On Impulse (Midnight Fantasies)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Black satin fantasies -- Very highly recommended	The only way single folks see any action in Virtue, Kansas is from their backseats in little country lanes. With no hotels, no motels, and no privacy, the small town is simply unconducive to a satisfying love life. So best friends Meg and Trudy made their plans for escape, destination: New York. But her mother had another baby to add to her brood, making the total seven, and delaying Trudy's departure by three and a half years. When she finally makes it to the big city, best friend Meg is already married and pregnant, leaving Trudy to troll for sexy men to expand her sexual repertoire on her own. Of course, that means a bit of matchmaking is in store.<br />When she purchases a huge four-poster bed, Trudy's friends pitch in to help put it together. Meg and her husband bring along his best friend, sexy Wall Street man Linc Faulkner. Linc has agreed to escort Trudy around the city for a couple of weeks to point out hotspots and places to avoid. He expects a hayseed without attraction. Instead, Trudy's impetuousness, enthusiasm, and spontaneity take him by storm. The bed proves to be too big to set up in her tiny bedroom; she asks that they set it up in the living room instead. That, combined with an accidental discovery of a box full of sex books, proves to be Linc's undoing. No matter how hard to tries, him imagination can't let go of that satin covered haven. <br />Both Trudy and Linc have sworn off marriage. They are young, single, and wildly attracted to one another. So Trudy decides to use Linc to begin her adventurous discoveries of New York's finest men. A bit of role playing, a lot of seduction, and they are both ecstatic. To preserve the mystery, she never allows Linc to stick around long enough for a cuddle: no sleeping over, no emotional entanglements. It seems like the perfect relationship. That is, until Linc suddenly starts dreaming of white lace and wedding bells, while Trudy is still thinking back streets and forbidden fantasies. <br />ACTING ON IMPULSEby Vicki Lewis Thompson absolutely blazes! With a heated story line, daring fantasies, and marvelous characterizations, ACTING ON IMPULSE will fulfill the most demanding reader's appetite for adventuresome liaisons. The characters are not only wonderfully developed, but reveal well-thought out motivation. Linc's shift from playboy to dreams of marriage is charming and convincing, while Trudy's reticence is understandable. The very sexy secondary plot likewise sparkles with a very pregnant, happily matchmaking best friend. A sensual delight, ACTING ON IMPULSE comes very highly recommended.	2002-01-17
1690043:US	49693975	R28SOKUD9YT0T1	037327193X	245563672	Return Of The Prodigal Son (The Lassiter Law) (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Highly recommended	Burned-out ex-CIA operative Donovan Lassiter wants nothing more than to retreat alone into the hills and write his book. A month after arriving, he's yet to unpack and put away when his old friend Champ Mackenzie calls needing his help. Champ's younger sister Andi Brady was married to Adam, who recently died along with his partner in a plane crash. While the authorities suspected foul play, nothing could be proven. Following Adam's death, bank and business records revealed Adam had bilked his wealthy clients for millions. Champ and his sister don't believe Adam was a criminal, and want Donovan's help to prove it. In the meantime, Andi's children are suffering from the cruel taunts about their father, and Champ wants to get them away for the summer. He convinces Donovan to rent Andi a nearby cabin.<br />When Andi and her children move in, Donovan has immediate misgivings about letting them rent the nearby cabin. He likes solitude, working through the night on his book. Children, however, have a way of turning up, and pulling others out of their self imposed shell. Soon he finds himself not only walking through the woods with nine-year-old Cory, or leaving food for a woodchuck with five-year-old Taylor, but also sincerely enjoying their company. He also finds himself irresistibly drawn to their widowed mother. But with grief still fresh after only a year, Andi's not in a hurry to embark upon a new relationship even when passion threatens to erupt between them. And the closer Donovan gets to the truth behind Adam's death, the more they are all placed in danger.<br />Once again author Ruth Langan pens an intriguing romance in RETURN OF THE PRODIGAL SON. When the prodigal son returns home, Donovan Donovan carries deep shadows left by the dangerous world he inhabited for ten years, and Andi and her children offer the much-needed sunlight of healing. Langan writes with a deep compassion for the blows the heart takes, not just in the dynamics between men and women, but alsoin family relationships. The struggle with grief is delicately portrayed as a prime motivator for Donovan, who lost his father as a child, mirroring the loss of Andi's children and their father. Donovan finds redemption not just through the love of a woman, but also through reaching out to grieving children. RETURN OF THE PRODIGAL SON comes highly recommended.	2002-01-17
1690171:US	49693975	R37U9FTQ107QUP	1586978314	830705898	WindHealer (WindLegends Saga #4)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very highly recommended	For more than six years, Prince Conar McGregor has been banished to the Labyrinth to live the remaining of his existence. His country, his family and his beloved wife believe him dead, the victim of the cruel and sadistic Kaileel Tohre, leader of the Dominion. Conar had fallen the evil sorcerer's clutches as a child, and when he refused the twisted love of Tohre, became the victim of revenge.<br />In the Labyrinth, Conar's enemies treat him as a non-person, refusing to acknowledge his existence as a human being even as they inflict cruel punishments. Conar's sanity hangs by a thread. Yet he is surrounded by men who love him; those who are loyal and would follow him through the depths of hell. But Conar will learn the worst of prisons are not physical places, the one ones within that torture with memories of love lost.<br />Destiny still calls to Conar and his men. The tortures he has endured have honed him into a survivor. Conar will become a Raven that rises from the ashes to destroy the forces of evil that control his former kingdom. The loyalty of Conar's men, and his willingness to endure the ultimate of cruelties to prevent harm to those he loves makes Conar McGregor, the Raven, a hero of epic proportions. <br />Love is also Conar's deepest weakness, for fleeing love leads him to the worst of choices, and the darkest of destinies. His men will become the WindForce, a group of highly trained warriors that will lead others in their cause. But even they are not aware of the curse the Black Ascendancy will bring to the realms as the Dominion weakens under Tohre's rule. <br />Author Charlotte Boyett-Compo weaves a tale of destiny and survival in WINDHEALER. Boyett-Compo has a remarkable gift for exposing the darkest of motivations and the worst of cruelties, and for pushing her heroes and heroines to their limits and beyond. Her tale at once fascinates and repels as she weaves a web of deceit, abuse and love. Fans of Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time series will revel the complexity and challenges of Boyett-Compo's WindLegends. Dark fantasy fans that have not yet begun this series have missed something haunting and absolutely memorable. Very highly recommended.	2002-01-17
1690377:US	49693975	RCI822XPDJNMZ	1590889924	504587907	Beyond Innocence	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Waves of drug induced euphoria cannot erase the evil done when exposed to the full light of day. A police officer and an owner of strip clubs, once bound by friendship, are destined to be bound by death when their assailants perform the ultimate betrayal and leave them lying broken in separate drop points at the foot of a mountain.<br />Despite the beating, the bullet, and the fall, one man lives to be discovered by hikers. For a month he lies in a coma, and when amnesia robs his memory and his past, John Doe becomes Luke. Recovery brings him the miracle of the first taste of ice-cream, an appreciation of sunsets, and love. But Luke wears a wedding ring and two tattoos that bind him to his past and an identity he doesn't remember.<br />Marnie Grant, a physiotherapist at Calgary's Foothills Hospital feels an irresistible pull to Luke's side. When he lies in a comma she visits frequently. She's present when the bandages come off and he awakens. Despite other people's warnings, Marnie takes Luke home with her while he rediscovers the world. His joy in discovery brings her own barren life joy.<br />Marnie has never fit the mold her parents insisted upon. Thirty came without a relationship that lasted beyond a month. She considers herself plain, knowing she lacks of feminine beauty idealized by her mother and sister-in-law. But when she looks through Luke's eyes, she feels beautiful. But she also sees the shadows in the past lurking in the back of his eyes, and Marnie knows even amnesia isn't enough to allow Luke to escape his past.<br />First time author Erin Fox weaves a complex tale of love, betrayal and murder in BEYOND INNOCENCE. The characters are believable, with powerful motivations, and capable of tremendous good and overwhelming evil. The intricate weave of the plot, the extremities of human nature, and the beauty of discovering good amid evil brings BEYOND INNOCENCE to a powerful and shocking conclusion. With its surprising twists and enigmatic relationships,BEYOND INNOCENCE will haunt readers long after the last page turned. Indeed, BEYOND INNOCENCE belongs on the keeper shelf. Winner of the WordWeaving Award of Excellence.	2002-01-17
1693230:US	49693975	R265EJXHEW8AXU	037316906X	413964583	Preacher'S In-Name-Only Wife (Bachelors Of Shotgun Ridge)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Lively and fresh! - Very highly recommended	Shotgun Ridge's matchmakers gain a little help from beyond the grave in Mindy Neff's PREACHER'S IN-NAME-ONLY WIFE. The four geezers have successfully meddled and interfered in the love lives the town bachelors until most are married and have children. Llyod, Henry, Vern and Ozzie might be unlike matchmakers, but they are successful. This time Ozzie's old war buddy aids the matchmaking in the form of a will designed to marry photojournalist Amy Marshall to preacher Dan Lucas.<br />Amy needs to marry Dan for ninety days in order to fulfill her grandfather's will. Otherwise her mother's home will be sold and the proceeds donated to charity. Neither Amy nor Dan have the means to buy her mother's home themselves, so marriage and fulfillment of the will's conditions seem the only solution. Amy has just enough time to fill the will's conditions and then leave on an assignment for the National Geographic to fulfill her lifelong dream. Her father had also been a photojournalist, and she longs to walk in his footsteps and prove that following a coveted dream is worth the personal sacrifices that it entails. <br />Dan finds himself in quite a conundrum. He can either desecrate sacred wedding vows by knowingly entering into them temporarily, or he can follow his instinct and help a woman in need. Amy's grandfather had risked his life to save his grandfather. Somehow it seems only right to return the gift. After all, ninety days of friendship and companionship and then an annulment doesn't seem like much of a chore. Then Dan's loving, generous spirit leads to providing a home for a homeless infant, and suddenly Amy and Dan are thrust into a much deeper emotional commitment than either bargained for.<br />Unlike most marriage of convenience plots, PREACHER'S IN-NAME-ONLY WIFE boldly announces to the town why they are getting married and for how long. Despite the fact that this is a marriage of convenience, the town rallies around the couple. The entire tone shifts away from the typical \\"no one can know\\" formula because no one's keeping secrets or presenting a false front, giving PREACHER'S IN-NAME-ONLY WIFE a lively freshness. In addition, these are imperfect main characters. Amy has imperfect motivations for pursuing her career, and must endure much self-honest and reevaluation of priorities if she's have what her heart truly desires. Dan likewise makes a fascinating preacher with his chili pepper tie (who would have thought a preacher could be such hot stuff?) and hula dancer night-light. Dan finds himself falling into the emotional trap of lashing out at one point because he fears loosing Amy. <br />Favorite characters from previous books of the Bachelors of Shotgun Ridge also put in appearances, providing updates and further enriching the background. I must admit that if I could pick a fictional hometown where I'd like to live, Mindy Neff has created it. I'm going to miss these wonderful matchmakers and their fabulous town. Very highly recommended.	2002-01-15
1693837:US	49693975	R2F3H3KK0HWJP8	0373169027	444192758	Doctor'S Instant Family (Bachelors Of Shotgun Ridge)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Not just suitable for Christmas -- Highly recommended	Shotgun Ridge's unlikely matchmakers strike again in Mindy Neff's THE DOCTOR'S INSTANT FAMILY. Four geezers meddle and interfere in the love lives the town bachelors in an effort to prevent the small town from dying out. Llyod, Henry, Vern and Ozzie might be odd matchmakers, but they are successful. Their latest attempt to bring together Dr. Chance Hammond and Kelly Anderson seems to be paying off in spades when she goes to work for him. Unfortunately, Kelly's past may get in the way of their matchmaking plans.<br />Kelly doesn't realize just how much she needs friends and community, but staying in Shotgun Ridge will prove to be just the anecdote for her wounds. Kelly's husband had been sleeping with her best friend; a fact she discovered during his funeral. Her youngest daughter has not spoken a word in six months -- not since she saw her father electrocuted. So not only has she lost her husband, but also her best friend and the sound of her daughter's voice. Despite Chaos obvious interest, Kelly has no desire to share her life with anyone except her daughters. <br />Since she came to work in his clinic, Chase has made no secret of his attraction to Kelly. His persistence doesn't pay off, however, until a donkey kicks him in the head and he persuades Kelly to keep an eye on him overnight in case he has a concussion. When the family she rents her house from announces their immanent arrival for the holidays, Chase convinces Kelly to stay in his five bedroom home during the holidays. But it'll take a holiday miracle to keep Kelly and her beautiful daughters in his life permanently.<br />Perfect to warm the heart not just during the holidays but through the New Year, THE DOCTOR'S INSTANT FAMILY weaves a spell of holiday magic, complete with an invisible angel, delightful children, and small town love. The interaction between Chance and the two girls is delightful, especially his awareness that he's falling not only for their mother, but the girls as well. His determination to pursue Kelly, without becoming pushy, likewise makes for delightful reading. A refreshening and honest novel filled with the challenges of betrayal, healing, and compromise, THE DOCTOR'S INSTANT FAMILY comes highly recommended.	2002-01-14
1694070:US	49693975	RRZR7OVEA24TY	0373271964	545418019	To Wed And Protect (The Delaney Heirs) (Silhouette Intimate Moments # 1126)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Gripping, intelligent and well-crafted tale	Only seven months remain until Luke Delaney can fulfill the terms of his father's will and leave Inferno, Arizona behind forever. He doesn't have any interest in keeping the family ranch, but he does not want the responsibility of making the rest of his siblings loose it, either. In the meantime, he strums his guitar, does a little carpentry, and counts the days. Then he meets single-mother Abby Graham. <br />Men have frightened Abby's children ever since the night they saw their father commit murder. Abby is determined to protect them, whatever the cost, and hopes seeking refuge in Inferno will offer them anonymity. It has been over a year since Jessica spoke, and Abby no longer recalls what her voice sounds like. Meeting Luke sparks instant attraction, but Abby can't afford to tell Luke the truth of their identity or the reason they are on the run, because if the man who pursues them can find them, then all will be lost.<br />Author Carla Cassidy pens a suspenseful romance in the second of The Delaney Heirs series. TO WED AND PROTECT strikes at the heart with its frightful account of the evil committed by a single man and the lives his actions transform. Abby's single minded determination to sacrifice everything to protect her children makes her a powerful heroine. Luke's growth from a good time loving, cowboy carpenter into something so much more will charm readers. A gripping, intelligent and well-crafted tale, TO WED AND PROTECT comes very highly recommended. ...	2002-01-14
1694639:US	49693975	R3GL1TTVQWJ0DB	0373271972	520742149	Still The One (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Ten years apart and it feels like just yesterday	Kit Foley's sister is missing. Believing that her sister's husband's connection to the mob has endangered them both, Kit hires Private Investigator Rafe Blackstock to help her find her sister. She hasn't seen Rafe in ten years, but her heart has not forgotten the only man she ever loved. Kit accused Rafe of being too controlling when she walked away because he forced her to choose between him and her family. <br />Ten years ago Rafe gave Kit his heart. Then she returned his engagement ring. For a year her ring burned a hole in his heart while he hoped she would change her mind. He believed that she couldn't commit. Kit still touches the secrets part of him that no one else ever sees, but he's not ready to risk that kind of pain again. Now her case thrusts them together, and Rafe vows that he won't let Kit out of his sight until they locate her ditzy sister. He also vows that despite the fiery chemistry they share, and the fact that he likes her new sassy attitude, he's not risking his heart again. <br />Author Debra Cowan weaves an entrancing tale of love and danger in STILL THE ONE. After ten years, Kit and Rafe realize that the other is still the one who touches their heart. But healing old wounds, finding the honesty to confess the pain and the courage to let ago challenges this couple. The painful undercurrents lend depth to the plot seeking Kit's sister, and the touches of danger heighten the tension profoundly. As they confront the past, both Kit and Rafe undergo tremendous growth and change. Cowan's skillful balance of healing old wounds while maintaining a fast paced plot result a memorable read that comes highly recommended.	2002-01-14
1695889:US	49693975	R33RGOOUB3TYOO	1586978101	781241570	The Drums of Diraenia	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Feisty and revealing -- Highly recommended	Once again JennaKay Francis works her marvelous magic to weave a powerful spell in THE DRUMS OF DIRAENIA. JennaKay will sweep you away in fantastic a world of elves, witches, dragons, and shapeshifters. <br />Thalassa, a sea-witch, is one of the few survivors of her decimated village. Lord Adrik, her captor, quickly recognized her magical abilities when she shields slaves from the pain of their enforced branding. In return for her troubles, she's branded with a pentacle on her left cheek. Thalassa carries a whistle, given by her mother, which makes no sound, but holds a mysterious purpose. She also carries a child, born of rape at the hands of her vicious husband, who is now dead. Soon Thalassa her self will die of a disease that declares itself as a red mark moving up the arm to the heart. It attacks only sea-witches, and there is no known cure.<br />Thalassa convinces her captor to send Eri, a boy of seventeen, to aid her during the final month of her pregnancy. Eri serves a mysterious prince known as Sinclair, and seeks only to escape bondage and rescue his prince. His loyalty is only torn by the love he bears for Thalassa, because she sacrificed much to protect and heal him. Together, the escape the keep, while it falls victim to the fires and ravages of the dragon Aki.<br />In another country, the Elfin Crown Prince Terran, age 29, must wed and have an heir to the empire before he turns 30, or forfeit his kingdom to his younger brother. But his beloved fiancée Elize has been killed in a supposed hunting accident. Before he's willing to bow to his father's wishes of an arranged marriage to a princess, he seeks out a woman he met months ago. He's haunted by the memory of her in his arms.<br />THE DRUMS OF DIRAENIA seems to have too many loose ends to tie up, but JennaKay does it masterfully. All of the unfinished sub plots are woven into one nice knot, sweeping the reader away in a world of magic. Those who enjoyed FREE SPIRIT, JennaKay's previous novel, will delight in the maturity of the voice that has evolved in this second novel. I heartily recommend this novel to all lovers of fantasy. But be warned, for once you begin the journey, you won't want to put the book aside for even a moment.	2002-01-13
1696372:US	49693975	R16YQ1NLT9B02I	1931391130	989336194	Confronted With Death	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Recommended	When eight year old Beth Stuyvesant accompanies her parents to a fortuneteller, the old woman refuses to reveal what she sees in the child's hand. Her mother likewise refused to enter the palm reader's tent, fearing to hear the future. The mournful song of a whippoorwill reveals the painful future to come all too clearly, as Beth's mother is diagnosed with ALS, a degenerative neurological disease. Her father resorts to alcohol and anger as he struggles to cope with the changes the disease brings, transforming him into a violent and abusive man that eventually abandons his family. When Beth is eighteen she confronts death the first time as she studies her mother's urn.<br />Beth begins the monumental task of putting her life in order, selling her mother's home and beginning college. She secures a teaching position that allows her attend school at night, and meets Peter, a child whose life she will change. Peter is in the sixth grade, but could not read. Beth is the first teacher who looks beyond his attitude to see the troubled child in need of help. She selflessly devotes many hours to his tutoring which allows him to graduate with his class to junior high. Her loving gift will one day be repaid in equal devotion. When her relationship with the man she's living with ends, Beth leaves Philadelphia behind to accept a teaching position in Indiana. The move will change her life on a number of levels as she continues to learn to confront death. <br />Author BJ Bloch creates a bleak landscape in CONFRONTED BY DEATH, achieving a surprising beauty in the telling. Beth faces overwhelming and agonizing challenges with a strong and powerful spirit, deeply touching the few lives she's allowed close. Rather than receiving the support and help she should have been able to expect from her father, it's the child that she taught to read who selfless fills her final needs. While that bleak landscape that was her life possesses beauty, the beauty is comprised of emptiness and open spaces. There is actually little to fill her life and few to mourn her passing. While such bleak beauty may not suit every reader, CONFRONTED BY DEATH comes recommended. <br />Note that some readers will find the overabundance of exclamation points very distracting.	2002-01-12
1696452:US	49693975	R2NZ4PDPLOTZQ6	158697808X	624313192	The Immaculate	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Sequel to THE DARKNESS THEREIN -- Very highly recommended	Rape left Mara scarred both physically and emotionally. Although shock seems to have deprived her of many details of the event, Mara's nightmares suggest that her attacker was not human. For the last year she's spent her inheritance seeking answers in dusty libraries and across Europe in Spain, London and Romania. When she drops a stack of books in a library, Adam assists her in gathering them up, commenting on their content. Mara confesses to not being able to read one, so Adam volunteers his assistance as a translator. <br />The haunted look in Mara's eyes drew Adam to her. His volunteering to aid in translating the ancient book could lead to trouble because he is a vampire. His sole mission in life to wait for the First Father to awaken, and to destroy him. To that end, he's a master of many languages and martial arts. Born an Immaculate Vampire, a minister raised him. Unfortunately, the minister believed him to be evil, inflicting cruel abuse even as the child trained to destroy the being that endangers both humans and other vampires.<br />Kate Hill pens a thrilling vampire romance in THE IMMACULATE. The fascinatingly original history for her vampires, dramatically demonstrates Hills creative flair. Further, the dark story line is carefully balanced by amusing asides and sensual interludes, keeping the pace quick and the reading enthralling. Indeed, Hill's sizzling style makes her one of the true masters of the genre. Very highly recommended.	2002-01-12
1696546:US	49693975	RN9LFW7QZ5LPO	1586978284	482047389	The Sorcerer's Pool	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award of Excellence	The third of the GUARDIANS OF GLEDE, THE SORCERER'S POOL culminates the remarkable fantasy treasure by JennaKay Francis. Prepare to put your feet up and to stay while, for upon arrival you'll not want to leave even after the remarkable conclusion. <br />A year after the conclusion of THE DARK PRINCE, Rugan has already escaped the dimension of his banishment. When Jansson arrives in Karsaba on a MagicStrand wide enough for four people, only the quick wits of the stablehand Darosenim keep him from falling into the clutches of Rugan's soldiers. <br />Jansson, King Jansson van Tannen of Odora Dava, has had a prophetic dream that Rugan will use his power to destroy the people Jansson loves most--Treyas and Kyel. While waiting the arrival of his closest friend, Prince Treyas Merripen, Jansson is suddenly transported to a pigsty in Karsaba, a land that can steal all memories of the past in only three day's time. The transport has already disrupted his MindLink with Kyel, leaving him feeling quite alone. Rugan actually intended for his half-brother Treyas to fall into his net, but nevertheless pursues Jansson across the land. <br />Rugan, who now calls himself Ver Rugan, killed almost all the mages immediately upon his arrival to this kingless land, and took up residence at Rune Mountain, the source of all magic in Karsaba. For the most part, Karsaba is a MagicVoid, and only the Rovers, or bubbles of magic which escape Rune Mountain, and a few small pockets provide magic that can salvage the memories of travelers. <br />As Treyas and Kyel search for the missing Jansson, they realize that the MagicStrand that took Jansson originated in the same dimension to which the wizard Elek banished the wizard Vaalde and Rugan the year before. Mystified at how such magic can be worked, Treyas and Kyel must find Jansson before any of them lose all memories of home. If Rugan succeeds in erasing Trayas memories, then Rugan may still act upon his claim to the throne as a direct descendent of the royal line. Indeed, the elves would have to follow him unless they went to war. <br />This reviewer has been immersed in the world of Glede, having read the three novels back-to-back. The trilogy is extraordinary, and I must confess to my wishing to linger just a little longer in this magical world of brownies, elves, and sorcerers. I have come to expect great things of JennaKay Francis, and am pleased to say my expectations have been surpassed.	2002-01-12
1696998:US	49693975	R1OIPYZMU68O8O	1584442603	282753535	The Hotel Bradbury	Books	4	0	0	N	N	One adventure after another -- Highly recommended	The big, orange doors of THE HOTEL BRADBURY lead to adventure for twelve-year-old Joe when he goes to work for his aunt and uncle for the summer. All of the occupants of the hotel are a bit unusual. His cousin Bumpy lives up to his nickname and has two attendants who constantly repair the damage he causes. His adopted cousin has six extra arms, and his aunt has a remarkable skill for being aware of everything everyone needs at once. Further, everyone mistakes him for a famous professor, not only calling him Professor but also expecting him to solve all sorts of problems.<br />Simple tasks like going fishing become quite exciting at THE HOTEL BRADBURY. Appliances are sentient, preferring to choose cool names instead of the mundane ones they previously held, like the computer who wants to be called Fridge. But when Joe's grandparents intervene, extraordinary takes on new proportions. That's when Joe realizes that there's more to the hotel and his family than he even suspected.<br />THE HOTEL BRADBURY is a fun adventure, moving in Quixote fashion from one description to the other. There's not a really a strong plot line binding the chapters together, which may result in some readers feeling a bit lost. Indeed, the conflict that ultimately concludes the book doesn't even begin to build until well into the second half of the book. Nevertheless, young minds will likely find the ridiculous and the farcical so extreme that they will be entirely distracted by the journey, not even noticing the lack of a clear direction until they arrive at the destination anyway. While the Elvis spoof may miss young audiences, those of us a bit older will find such humor marvelously entertaining. Highly recommended.	2002-01-12
1697015:US	49693975	R1X9A9UUKQ50FL	1586979515	252665057	The Darkness There in	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Steamy vampire romance -- Highly recommended	THE DARKNESS THEREIN is a steamy vampire romance brilliantly written by Kate Hill. With the brush strokes of a master, she has created a breath taking paranormal romance that will delight fans of this genre. <br />An obsessive, almost psychic urge drives Charlie from the safety of her friend Mara's apartment into the starless autumn night. She feels compelled to hurry home and complete her most recent painting. Indeed, when any of her special paintings demand her attention, she can't rest until she completes them. Little does Charlie realize that her paintings connect her to the mysterious man who follows her.<br />Although he only seeks to help, Joselyn surprises Charlie and she reacts violently to protect herself. Soon it becomes apparent that Joselyn isn't the threat, however, as he fights a red headed fiend named Edrik to protect Charlie. Edrik, created hundreds of years ago, is the embodiment of evil. Though Edrik had been imprisoned by his creator hundreds of years ago, it was apparent he would one day escape. Therefore, Joselyn was created in the thirteenth century to destroy him.<br />Wary of revealing his emotions, especially his growing affection for Charlie, Joselyn comes to teach Charlie. She is the one chosen by her grandmother to carry the rituals and teachings upon which her religion is founded, including the secret knowledge of vampires, of which Edrik and Joselyn are two. Charlie unknowingly holds the key to destroying Edrik. Once the demon realizes the connection between Charlie and Joselyn, her life isn't safe. She must give up her home, job and education to become Joselyn's apprentice.<br />All fans of this genre will thoroughly enjoy this suspense-laden novel. The intrigue will keep the reader hooked until the last exciting page. Readers will enjoy the both the love story between the main characters and the tension of the fulfillment of destiny. I highly recommend THE DARKNESS THEREIN.	2002-01-12
1697187:US	49693975	R13XLM4IK219KB	0373790236	320910176	Live A Little!	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Accountant Cynthia Baxter would like to learn to live a little. Her six year engagement to a doctor more concerned with patients than his personal relationships drives her to desperate measures. She purchases the September issue of Raunch Magazine, which categorizes its fantasies into Boudoir Beginners, Intimate Intermediates, and Erotically Advanced. She'd even highlighted her favorite fantasies. But Walter leaves her naked and handcuffed to the bed while he leaves to deliver a baby. Hours later, a neighbor finally comes to the rescue. But meeting FBI agent Jake Wheeler under such conditions does not fulfill her fantasy.<br />At first, Jake Wheeler assumes Cynthia's prone position resulted from a working girl's day gone bad. Her trash looks juxtapose an oddly innocent expression in her eyes, driving his libido over the edge, even if he has sworn off wild women with revolving bedroom doors. However, when he realizes that Cynthia's an accountant, Jake convinces her to volunteer to help him crack a drug smuggling operation by accepting a new job with his quarry. Cynthia leaps at the opportunity for change and excitement. She transforms herself into Cyn the Bold and prepares to plunge into the world of black ops, spies and danger. Even as Jake suspects that the sophisticated sex-pot routine is fake, it's too late to withdraw from a very dangerous situation-both undercover and under the covers. <br />Now this is what a Blaze should be! Sexy, daring, and bold with a dash of levity, LIVE A LITTLE! lives up to my highest expectations. The heroine doesn't waste time protesting her innocence, the hero doesn't struggle over needless issues, and the plot never slows. Indeed, the dangerous plot echoes the dangerous eroticism of a handcuff fantasy, resulting in a terrific read. Pleasing, tempting and erotic, LIVE A LITTLE! comes very highly recommended.	2002-01-12
1697336:US	49693975	R6PJ892M4DRFP	158697890X	496236398	Dark Hunger	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Stunning! -- very highly recommended	In the exotic streets of Istanbul, ten year old Alana Piovanetti captures the attention of the vampire. As she sparkles like a rare jewel among the crowd, he couldn't resist the luscious scent of the child-woman. When she glimpses his elongated canines, Alana is not sure whether what she had seen was illusion or reality. Enraptured by her touch, her taste, he waits twelve years.<br />As the odd blend of nightmare and fantasy haunts her dreams, Alana lives on the seventh floor of the high-rise, because &quot;she wished to have the feeling of being able to fly off one night if she wants to.&quot; The dreams only come in fragments, yet she has a sense of strength and safety in powerful arms. She couldn't recall his face, yet she knows it to be wise, magnificent, and ancient. His hypnotic presence follows into consciousness, even the teasing touch of his fingers. Every night the violently erotic dreams chase away restful sleep, leaving her hungry, insatiable.<br />When she sees the ad for a manager at La Cueva del Vampiro, she applies and gets the job. As a twenty-two-year-old Nietzche freak fresh from college, with no practical experience, Alana makes a startling success as a manager. The idea of dressing up and pretending to be a vampire had become an obsession. Little does she suspect that she's at last begun the path to her dangerous destiny.<br />Filled with Puerto Rican heat, the erotically seductive language deceptively masks the horror of the plot. As questions of integrity, morality and loyalty become unimportant, these sensuous characters become hostages to their darkest desires, their darkest hungers. For lovers of vampire romances, DARK HUNGER is a keeper. Very highly recommended.	2002-01-12
1697379:US	49693975	RHKTGEL043PEM	0373710283	846952877	Daughter of Oklahoma: Hometown U.S.A. (Harlequin Superromance No. 1028)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Recommended	Gossip and speculation keep the rumor mills churning in Medicine Creek, Oklahoma. Preacher Mike Kirkpatrick finds himself unintentionally and unofficially engaged by serving a breakfast side by side with Gloria. Everyone in town knows his son Zach had gotten in trouble by skipping school and going to the Cagle ranch before Mike did. So when the preacher/real estate agent begins spending time with attorney Annie Fisher, everyone knows it. It only took three words, when Annie whispered \\"Those poor kids,\\" for this father of five to give his heart to Annie.<br />Sixteen years have yet to bring healing to Annie. Growing up in Medicine Creek with a cold stepmother had made childhood painful. Now only three stories of rummage remain to remind Annie of the bitter woman who had raised her, and virtually erased the memory of her Chickasaw birth mother. As Annie begins to ready the house and property for sale, however, she begins to uncover the well guarded secrets to her past that tie her the town of Medicine Creek. Suddenly her engagement to a senator and her successful career in Washington, D.C. seem irrelevant and unfulfilling.<br />Author Darlene Graham creates a warm romance in DAUGHTER OF OKLAHOMA. This memorable father of five finds himself at cross purposes when the town pushes him in one direction and his heart leads in another. Gloria's meddling lends the novel a fun subplot and mild tension as she struggles to arrange events to lead to the altar. Annie's painful childhood lends sympathy and depth, especially as she uncovers information about her birth mother. Unfortunately, the many subplots leave readers feeling pulled in too many directions at once. Recommended.	2002-01-11
1697417:US	49693975	R1ZF7A2BAFQETH	1586979337	474938677	Facade	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very highly recommended	FAÇADE by Pat Rasey is a heart stopping, adrenaline-pumping novel that you dare not start at bedtime if you intend to be up in the morning. Addictive from the first shocking page, FAÇADE will reveal the dangers that lurk beneath the most innocent appearances.<br />A murder stalks McCreary County, paying back old grudges born through many years. The first victim, George Stanton, is discovered days after his death hung with his crime nailed above his head: ADULTERY. As McCreary County's only homicide detective, KC Tanner quickly finds himself working the case with Sharlalee MacAruthur, McCreary County's victim advocate. KC has spent months trying to avoid the attractive young lady, despite his desire for her, because she also happens to be much younger and the daughter of his boss the sheriff.<br />The day before the second body's discovered, KC sees the victim storming away from the Sherrif's office and heard the soon-to-be victim demanding protection. As the tangled threads of the story become gnarled, KC complicates his life even further by briefly giving into his desire for Sharl, despite his vows to stay away from her, and despite his suspicions that his boss has some hidden agenda regarding the case. When KC finds the Sherrif's deceased wife, and Sharl's mother, ties the victims together, as well as Black Magic crimson roses, the tangled webbing begins to unravel with unexpected results, leading to a past many would like to forget, including KC himself.<br />Rasey has an extraordinary talent for creating characters with depth and complexity, while weaving a quick moving plot that lures the reader into a world of murder and intrigue. Extraordinarily, Rasey can capture the essence of a brutal murder all the while maintaining a sexy, lusty subplot with sharp quips counterbalanced by grace. While all of Rasey's novels are hits, this is the best one yet, earning a very highly recommended rating an award from WordWeaving.	2002-01-11
1697704:US	49693975	R3D3FKR6FK7SLT	1586978322	948668809	WindWeeper (Windlegends Saga #3)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very highly recommended	In the third novel in the nine-book series of Sword & Sorcery, author Charlotte Boyett-Compo once again keeps holds the reader rapt until the last page turns. Picking up where book two leaves off, Conar and Liza McGregor struggle against the winds of fate, victim of storms beyond their imagining. <br />At last reunited, Conar and Liza plan to return to his father's kingdom Serenia. Confronting the demon Raphian in the book's prologue, Conar learns to unit his gifts with Liza to defeat the Storm God. Little do they realize that with the battle won, they've yet to win the war against the evil god and those who serve him, The Brothers of the Dominion led by Kaileel Tohre. Or the depths of evil Tohre will sink to in order take revenge for being scorned by Conar.<br />Nightmares taunt him, bringing visions of Liza with Conar's half-brother, Brelan Saur. He hears Tohre's vicious gloating, promises of Tohre depriving Conar of his lady forever. The dreams prove to be a retched prophecy as Conar falls victim to great evil. His drink spiked with tensure by his own Elite guard, Conar again looses his temper. Liza's mother, the queen, refuses to allow Conar to take Liza home, fearing for her safety, both from Conar and from Tohre. <br />Liza is determined to stand beside Conar so they may defeat Tohre and his followers together. She believes they are destined to be together. She is the Keeper of the Wind; he is the Prince of the Wind. Sadly, Liza underestimates the events already set into motion, and the reach and evil of the Dominion. Death and change will sweep aside all that she loves and all that she believes in.<br />As Tohre's power grows, his perversity and evil threaten to destroy the kingdom. Tohre destroying Conar and weakens the power of the King as Galen, Conar vile twin, steps in to rule the kingdom. But that is only the beginning of Tohre's plans. Over taxation, repossessing the homes and belongings of those unable to pay, destroying the spirit of the people, andthe surrounding kingdoms, all build the power of the Dominion. For the first time, their goal to bring mankind into submission to their power, begins to become a real possibility.<br />Boyett-Compo allows the Windlegend series to grow beyond a simple fantasy series, with a fascinating and reverting love story, into a saga of the fight between good and evil. The evolving mythology, on which the novel rests, continues to become even more complex and mesmerizing with each book of the series. Further, the story of Conar's destruction had me reading until three in the morning, tears streaming down my face. I could hardly keep going, the novel touched me so deeply, yet I couldn't put the thing down. The pain and the challenges faced by these extraordinary characters held me enthralled. If you like Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time series, then you're going to love Charlotte Boyett-Compo's Windlegends. Very highly recommended.	2002-01-11
1698012:US	49693975	R1BMPWBD25JLJ9	1586978233	413203079	The Hour Before Dawn	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very highly recommended	\\"Nothing good could ever be said about the hour before dawn, not when the sun was about to arrive...\\"<br />In the darkest shadows of Chicago's allies lurks a vampyre who sadistically preys on young girls. When police find the fourth victim in two months, Officer Teven Zaber accepts the assignment to go deep undercover. Leaving behind his estranged wife and ten-year old daughter, Tev enters a murky world of leather, tattoos and body piercing, where there's no past and no future, and where the only way to freedom will come \\"from cavorting with the devil himself.\\" <br />Tev enters a world founded on illusion. Determined to locate a rumored vampyre coven, Tev believes the serial killer exists within its midst. Trading jeans for leather, spending daylight hours on the Internet doing research and nights in clubs, Tev enters the world of vampyres. But he quickly discovers Chicago's vampyres are a secluded group that prefers anonymity and privacy. <br />When he enters the House of Horrors: Tattoos and Body Piercing, Tev glimpses a devastatingly beautiful woman receiving the finishing touches on a tattoo. That chance encounter leads to much more when Krystal approaches him at the club Pandemonium. Despite her youth, at eighteen Krys is ten years younger than Tev, her past marks Krys with an intriguing maturity and hidden pain. Krys rooms with two men, a marvelous gay man Azzo who owns the mansion where she's lived for three years, and Raven, a Goth style vampyre. <br />In a gruesome existence of blood feeding, donors and vampyres, Tev finds his inhibitions, morals and beliefs called into questions as he fights his attraction for Krys, yet uses her connections to locate vampyres. Further, despite his feelings for Krys, a torrid affair in the midst of a police investigation is against all the rules. Yet when he's with Krys, Tev's never felt so out of control or so driven by an interior hunger. <br />In this long-awaited sequel to Deadly Obsession, as the plot progresses in layers of complexity and entanglements, danger stalks the innocent. Just the creative voyeuristic thrill of briefly living in this world, by way of the path blazed by author Patricia Rasey, is enough to make THE HOUR BEFORE DAWN a must read. Daring and bold, Rasey presents the shadowy world of vampyres with a unique darkness that proves mesmerizing. The style is fiercely unrelenting, marking Rasey indelibly as a harsh truth teller. Although her genre is fiction, her characters are real and frightening, and not even main characters are safe from the evil that haunts Rasey's work. Further, Rasey's exploration of self-mutilation is both knowledgeable and tasteful, lending a shocking vulnerability to a striking character. Indeed, THE HOUR BEFORE DAWN is gripping, gritty, and fascinating, coming very highly recommended.	2002-01-11
1698039:US	49693975	R2ZEVK3E9HSO2C	1586978330	857708094	The Windseeker (The Windlegends Saga, 2)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very highly recommended	WINDSEEKER, by Charlotte Boyett-Compo, the latest installment in the Wind Legend Saga, continuing the great love affair between Prince Conar McGregor and his wife Liza, in addition to the battle against the evil of the Dominion, a sect of evil determined to conquer mankind. <br />Conar holds a long denied appointment with destiny. As a child, Conar fell victim to the Brotherhood of the Domination, those who would use his throne to serve their needs. In WINDSEEKER, the Dominion uses his brother Galen and wife Liza to lure Conar into their evil clutches, intending to complete the rites begun when Conar was a boy. In those early days, Conar was victim of the evil priest's desires and lusts. When he came home to his father's palace, his spirit was broken, he was ashamed to live, and tried to commit suicide. Nevertheless, the much-scarred boy survived to become a devoted, loving man and future king.<br />No man goes to the Great Abbey unless he seeks the Rites of Passage into the Order of Dominion, but when Dominion kidnaps Liza with Galen's aid, Conar risks his very soul to rescue her. Conar knows that the Dominion may allow him to go back to to his father's kingdom, even sit upon the throne of his homeland, but They would rule him; They would control who and what he was. He also knew the Dominion might even allow him to keep Liza at his side, but it won't matter. After the Rites of Passage, he will be One of Them, and Liza would be lost to him forever. The Dominion strives to posses Conar because of his special gifts; that is, he will have the combined power of The White and The Black Paths.<br />Once again Boyett-Compo weaves a fascinating tale of love, betrayal and passion; one that holds the reader rapt, praying for a glorious hero's survival and mourning the damage inflicted by evil. As Boyett-Compo's Wind Legends saga continues to develop its mythos, the extraordinary power of the tale leaves the reader enthralled, appalled, and desperate for more. Combining the Brotherhood of the Dominion with its counter-group, the Sisters of the Multitude, Boyett-Compo delivers richly varied characters of depth and power. I for one look forward to learning more of the mysterious sisters and of the gifts Liza keeps hidden. Hurry, Charlie, I can't wait for book three! Very highly recommended.	2002-01-11
1698467:US	49693975	R2RMKZBVKGPTT6	1586978349	743530546	The Windkeeper (Windlegends Saga #1)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Fabulous! Very highly recommended	Fans of Charlotte Boyett-Compo will cheer the release of WINDKEEPER, originally available only in paperback under the title THE KEEPER OF THE WIND. Complete with previous pieces that had been edited out, WINDKEEPER is destined to become a best seller.<br />The three thieves thought him an easy mark, little suspecting that the intended victim was Prince Conar Alexsandro McGregor. Conar would have fairly beaten all three of them in a fair fight if the innkeeper hadn't arrived at an inopportune moment. But help quickly arrived from a most unexpected direction. Concealed in the loft, a mysterious stranger leaps to the Prince's aid, showing deft proficiency with weapons. But this was no ordinary weapons expert. Indeed, when the expert of blade and crossbow is revealed to be a woman, Conar is astonished. His rescuer only gives the name Liza, refusing to reveal her surname, heritage, country or past. <br />As they journey together, Conar falls madly in love with the mysterious beauty. But he has been pledged to another since birth. It was the deceased Queen's wish that he marry Princess Anya of Oceania as her parents were close friends to herself and the King. Conar has refused to journey to meet his intended, relying on another's account of the young woman, who has been described as a limping toad -- certainly no comparison to the mysterious Liza. And so a promise is made, that while on their journey, they might be together. And when the journey ends, so does the romance. But a heart is a delicate thing, and not likely to give up that which it loves.<br />Beneath the surface of Boyett-Compo's romance runs a tantalizingly evil subplot. Conar, without full memory of his past, has fallen victim to the evil Brotherhood of the Dominion, a sinister sect of warrior priests dedicated to the erudition of free thought and the enslavement of humanity. A vicious and cruel sect, the Domination is led by Kaileel Tohre, a priest who intends to control the prince and has sorely underestimated the adversary he faces with Liza.<br />A rich and complex weave of adventure, romance, and fantasy, WINDKEEPER is an extraordinary tale with great promise of powerful sequels. As readers have come to expect, both humor and grace are well balanced in this tantalizing novel. Indeed, move over Robert Jordan, for you have competition. With the depth of characterization so easily penned by Boyett-Compo, these characters live long in the readers memory, demanding the story continue. This reviewer not only very highly recommends WINDKEEPER, but wishes the sequel were ready now!	2002-01-11
1698481:US	49693975	R3SRY8716OQRTH	0373710283	846952877	Daughter of Oklahoma: Hometown U.S.A. (Harlequin Superromance No. 1028)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Recommended	Gossip and speculation keep the rumor mills churning in Medicine Creek, Oklahoma. Preacher Mike Kirkpatrick finds himself unintentionally and unofficially engaged by serving a breakfast side by side with Gloria. Everyone in town knows his son Zach had gotten in trouble by skipping school and going to the Cagle ranch before Mike did. So when the preacher/real estate agent begins spending time with attorney Annie Fisher, everyone knows it. It only took three words, when Annie whispered &quot;Those poor kids,&quot; for this father of five to give his heart to Annie.<br />Sixteen years have yet to bring healing to Annie. Growing up in Medicine Creek with a cold stepmother had made childhood painful. Now only three stories of rummage remain to remind Annie of the bitter woman who had raised her, and virtually erased the memory of her Chickasaw birth mother. As Annie begins to ready the house and property for sale, however, she begins to uncover the well guarded secrets to her past that tie her the town of Medicine Creek. Suddenly her engagement to a senator and her successful career in Washington, D.C. seem irrelevant and unfulfilling.<br />Author Darlene Graham creates a warm romance in DAUGHTER OF OKLAHOMA. This memorable father of five finds himself at cross purposes when the town pushes him in one direction and his heart leads in another. Gloria's meddling lends the novel a fun subplot and mild tension as she struggles to arrange events to lead to the altar. Annie's painful childhood lends sympathy and depth, especially as she uncovers information about her birth mother. Unfortunately, the many subplots leave readers feeling pulled in too many directions at once. Recommended.	2002-01-11
1698517:US	49693975	R10HSVLSZ4LXB6	1586979493	354110641	Twilight Obsessions	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very Highly Recommended	Three novellas come together in TWILIGHT OBSESSIONS. In each, dangerous, deadly love meets powerful heroes and dazzling, decisive women who risk their lives for the sake of the men they choose. Each tale contains surprise endings that somehow seem just right yet remain extraordinary in their darkness and fascination.<br />&quot;Taken by the Wind,&quot; by Charlotte Boyett-Compo. Working late and alone on a Friday night, Brenna Collins feels the desperate pain and illness of another migraine approaching. As she finally prepares to leave the dark, deserted office, Brenna realizes that the body of the company's vice-president of operations William Jenner, has fallen victim of the Gemini serial killer. Brenna waits until she believes the killer is gone, and tries to the escape the building. The killer not only confronts her, but allows her to escape so that he may play with her another day.<br />&quot;Love on the Wild Side,&quot; by Kate Hill. The Ultra Corps, treated with implants and drugs, were the next generation of cops. Immunity to pain heightened senses are a lethal combination. But something has gone wrong with many of the volunteer crime fighters, and their dangerous behavior threatens the entire program and ostracizes them from society and law enforcement officers in civilian life. But when Alynssa Remington meets Luke Wilder, she sees beyond the experiment into the man, and she can't help liking what she sees, although she's determined to retain her professional reserve as his counseling. But love has a way of finding a way, despite the explicit dangers. Nevertheless the repercussions threaten ominously.<br />&quot;Fear the Dark,&quot; by Pat A. Rasey. The man tenderly places the timber rattler in the closet with Alison Mendal and locked the door. As her screams and cries amplify, he smiles. He keeps 142 snakes, but only the special ones like Agnes have names and are venomous. He craves the power these special ones possess. They are the test of his faith. Detective Jack Carter's decision to rule the death an accident infuriates the killer, and the woman he walked out on two years ago, Cara Banks, an evidence tech, must work together before the killer strikes again.<br />These three sharp, starkly surreal short stories had me hooked from the first line to the last. As the smart, savvy heroines confront brutal, vicious evil with extraordinary valor, I was hooked from the first page to the last. Not for the faint of heart, these authors having an extraordinary flair for not just entertaining, but also for challenging the reader. I highly recommend TWILIGHT OBSESSIONS.	2002-01-11
1699016:US	49693975	RNC414QU8XOYS	0373271956	851735202	Hard To Tame (Charmed And Dangerous) (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A nail biting, suspenseful romance	With the cunning of true malevolence, Victor Mennan's minions stalk Sara Parker. Every few months she changes her identity, moves to a new city, and radically alters her appearance. She's become an expert at assuming false identities, never allowing her defenses to slip, and never ever allowing anyone too close. Then she meets Nick Doucet at the restaurant where she waitresses. One glance and she knows he's dangerous, not only because he may be a threat to her physical safety, but also because she knows he can slip past the defenses of her heart. And she's very tired of running away from danger.<br />Nick sees beyond their obvious differences, easily recognizing the similarities he shares with Sara. He wonders if, like him, with every disguise does she leave behind a piece of her true self, or even if she knows who she is anymore. Sara has the ability to give hope that perhaps he hasn't lost his soul after all. He recognizes their kindred spirits, their shared resilience, and their absolute determination to survive impossible circumstances. He's intrigued by the blend of nervous waif and wary combatant. But Nick knows from brutal experience what happens if he lowers his defenses and gets to close to people involved in a case. If he looses his objectivity, people die. <br />The Charmed and Dangerous series by Kylie Brant ends with the thrilling HARD TO TAME, a nail biting, suspenseful romance filled with equal parts of danger to lives and danger to hearts. The series' unifying theme of danger from the menace of a deadly criminal boss reaches a stunning conclusion. Further, Nick is a bigger-than-life hero with a dark past in the Green Berets where he gained the knowledge and skill to hire out to those in need of his services. Sara's street smart, spunky, and his exact opposite. Together they make an explosive team. Very highly recommended.	2002-01-10
1700213:US	49693975	RK4F3FSY7H0MN	037371033X	679378654	Man with a Mission: The Men of Maple Hill (Harlequin Superromance No. 1033)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Pregnant and sexy! Highly recommended	Hank Whitcomb returns to Maple Hill, Massachusetts after a twenty-year absence and successful career as a NASA engineer. Although his professional life was hugely successful, his personal life was lacking. Now he's started a small business called Whitcomb's Wonders, offering a variety of handyman services. When he relocates his business to City Hall, however, he quickly finds himself confronting the past.<br />Jackie Bourgeois still carries the scars of the past. Hank had been the love of her life although she married someone else after he left Maple Hill twenty years ago. Now widowed, the mayor of Maple Hill, mother of two, and pregnant, Jackie scarcely has the time or energy to deal with old wounds, or so she tells herself. She needs what Hank offers: love, commitment and family. But she also carries a secret, the reason she refused to leave Maple Hill with Hank twenty years ago. That secret threatens both of their dreams. <br />Author Muriel Jensen continues the Men of Maple Hill miniseries with MAN WITH A MISSION. These marvelous characters sparkle; from the fierce determination of the heroine to the snotty woman her father is dating. As political intrigue, pregnancy and Jackie's entrancing daughters keep the plot moving steadily along, readers will wish to linger in this wonderful community much longer. Highly recommended.	2002-01-09
1700355:US	49693975	R3I1QW03HWZ67H	0373710364	785714795	The Colonel and the Kid: In Uniform (Harlequin Superromance No. 1036)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	When choices of the heart clash with military rigidity	Colonel Viktor Baturnov arrives in the United States prepared to spend a month learning supply movement techniques at the Pentagon. He doesn't share his hidden agenda, which involves flying his son into the United States for heart surgery. His superiors would not appreciate his manipulations that put him in the United States endeavoring to aid his son. He finds himself immediately drawn to the protocol officer acting as his escort, but Viktor cannot allow himself to be distracted. Perhaps if he keeps his actions professional and courteous, she'll aid him if he asks for help.<br />Someone has been toying with Captain Natalie Wentworth's assignments, and, consequently, her career. She ordinarily deals with generals, ambassadors and heads of states, leaving assignments like this one to lesser officers. Instead, she's currently assigned to a Colonel with a secret, and she wants to know what that secret is. Sympathy, however, could easily compromise her career. Soon she finds herself choosing between love and duty, requiring that she reevaluate both her priorities and her goals. <br />THE COLONEL AND THE KID by Elizabeth Ashtree will tug at readers' hearts. While a little slow in the beginning, the pace increases in relationship to the pressures on these dynamic characters from separate worlds. The pressure created by the child's illness, and the willingness to sacrifice anything to save him becomes a strong motivation to bring two military people from opposite sides of the world together. Secondary characters are also vividly realized, with a well meaning mother whose frequent phone calls seem timed to drive Natalie crazy. Another delightful secondary character nicknamed Angel will likewise capture readers' hearts. Indeed, she deserves her own book with her infectious personality and daring. Ashtree's resolution to the conflict doesn't disappoint, making THE COLONEL AND THE KID a terrific read. Very highly recommended.	2002-01-09
1700543:US	49693975	R3QSJPLWE8ZCQB	0505524759	577832052	The Promise	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Promises made and promises kept -- Very highly recommended	Cara Reynolds' sixteenth birthday is perfect with a new foal, dinner at the Bristol with her parents, and the gift of beautiful silver heart shaped necklace. Then tragedy strikes in the form of car accident, killing her parents. A stranger finds Cara in the blizzard and seeks shelter for them in an abandoned mine tunnel. Michael Macpherson promises to take care of her, but in the morning, he's gone. Over time, doctors and her grandfather persuade Cara that her savior doesn't exist; that he is a way for her mind to deal with the tragic death of her parents. An artist, Cara tries repeatedly to recapture her memories of the mine tunnel called the Promise, not realizing that his promise ties her to Michael, binding their hearts and futures irretrievably.<br />Nine years later Cara realizes that time shifted that night, allowing two timelines to cross when a wounded Michael appears in her own time. She is from the present; he's from more than a hundred years ago. Someone tried to kill Michael and he knows neither who nor why. He immediately recognizes the subject of one of Cara's paintings, however. And he recognizes the unspoken promise of the two lovers in the mine's entrance. Later, an admirer named Nick insists that Cara sell her paintings of the Promise silver mine to him, but she refuses. When she and Michael return to her studio for a last minute chore before the paintings ship to a gallery in New York, a fire breaks out nearly killing Cara. Struck by the strange coincidences of the evening, Cara and Michael investigate Nick's house. There they find her paintings, and a very old news account of Michael's disappearance and his father's death. His brother Patrick will die as well, if they can't return to the past to save him.<br />Dee Davis pens an intriguing romance in THE PROMISE. At the heart of Cara and Michael's story lays the Promise, the silver mine that brought the Macphersons the promise of wealth and tragedy. Further, promises made and promises kept bind the hearts of Cara and Michael as they cross timelines. Mystery and love weave a mesmerizing account that culminates in terrific finale. The secondary plotline likewise binds hearts and promises, as the working girl Loralee and Michael's brother Patrick discover love in the midst of danger. Loralee is an especially sympathetic and appealing character guaranteed to capture reader's hearts. Furthermore, THE PROMISE is engaging enough that it is a good choice for romance readers even for those who often avoid time-travel stories. Very highly recommended.he hearts of Cara and Michael as they cross timelines. Mystery and love weave a mesmerizing account that culminates in terrific finale. The secondary plotline likewise binds hearts and promises, as the working girl Loralee and Michael's brother Patrick discover love in the midst of danger. Loralee is an especially sympathetic and appealing character guaranteed to capture reader's hearts. Furthermore, THE PROMISE is engaging enough that it is a good choice for romance readers even for those who often avoid time-travel stories. Very highly recommended.	2002-01-09
1700757:US	49693975	R1QZBRSJ1CG2P2	0373710348	248702773	Beneath a Texas Sky: Count on a Cop (Harlequin Superromance No. 1034)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Fabulous! Very highly recommended	Captain Jace Riley of the Texas Rangers has just two months to track the killers who murdered his mentor during an armored car robbery. So far his undercover assignment as a summer relief driver of a parcel service has turned up nothing in the West Texas mountains. Now he only has two weeks left and no leads. Then a chance encounter with a stranger takes him to Dana Turner's rented trailer.<br />When she opens the door, Dana sees a man in uniform and fears he's there with an arrest warrant. She spent seven months in prison for the murder of her sister until a judge overturned the conviction. Although she was innocent, she knows many people will only see her prison record rather than her exoneration. Worse, prison changed her. Her claustrophobia has gotten much worse, and she's learned to appreciate every little mundane freedom. Rather trust for her fellow man, she is now filled with suspicion.<br />Dana came to West Texas to work at an isolated observatory and gaze at the stars. Now for the first time in a long time, Dana is attracted to a man. Conflicting emotions lead to alarming complications to her previously quiet existence. Worse, Dana and Jace come to realize that she's in danger from her landlord's grandson. And Jace can't decide if she's associated with the cop-killers, or the woman of his dreams. <br />I confess to having a weakness for bold characterizations with an unconventional past. Author Rebecca Winters fills that type with flair, creating heroine Dana who tries to leave the pain of imprisonment behind her while embracing the newfound strengths such an experience produces. Her understandable distaste for law enforcement creates a delightful conundrum since her soul mate happens to be an undercover Texas Ranger. Further, Jace's early misgivings about her background create the perfect balance of tension and passion. Indeed, the balance of strong characterizations and a fascinating plot makes BENEATH A TEXAS SKY a terrific read. Very highly recommended.	2002-01-09
1700887:US	49693975	R2Z5SZW5OCZCG1	0373710356	373560203	14 Valentine Place (Harlequin Superromance No. 1035)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A charming Valentine story -- Recommended	For thirteen years Dylan has carried a secret about his father that created distance between himself and his family. Now Dylan arrives home, where he'll visit for six weeks while recovering from surgery, not expecting the profound changes he finds. His mother is taking belly dancing lessons, died her hair blond, got rid of her glasses and lost weight. The house has likewise been transformed, and Dylan isn't necessarily happy with all the changes. Worse, his mother's new job has her working as a &quot;romance coach.&quot; Dylan blames the changes on the influence of his mother's boarder Maddie Lamont. Dylan hasn't seen Maddie since she was fourteen, and her transformation is also profound.<br />Dylan would like to be the advice-filled, world-wise big brother, but he hasn't been around enough to nurture a relationship with his brothers. Indeed, he leaves his island paradise not so much to reconcile with his family, as to flee a woman who wants to take their relationship to the next level. Although he initially fights his attraction to Maddie, he finds himself quite challenged to get close her. Maddie has been casually seeing someone else for six months, and she doesn't want a man who's not going to stick around. But then, she's never reacted to anyone the way she reacts to Dylan.<br />Pamela Bauer pens a character driven romance in 14 VALENTINE PLACE. In the beginning, readers may feel a bit ambivalent about Dylan as he initially presents himself as superficial. Dylan doesn't like the changes in his mother, his youngest brother's life altering decisions, or Maggie's influence. As a result, he acts like a thirty-one-year-old spoiled, petulant boy until a brother reminds him that he's the one who chose to absent himself from their lives. As he becomes honest with himself about his feelings for Maggie, however, Dylan becomes the hero romance lovers expect. <br />The key to 14 VALENTINE PLACE is honesty. As characters become honest with themselves about their feelings anddesires, and then with one another, the magic of love does the rest, whether the magic occur within a romantic context or between family members. In addition, Maddie makes a captivating heroine with her charming stubbornness and determination. Further, secondary characters truly sparkle, especially Dylan's mother whether adorned in her belly dancing costume or giving love advice. Recommended.	2002-01-09
1701039:US	49693975	R12JJJBFY3YHT5	0373790287	683299239	All Tied Up (Harlequin Blaze, No 24)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	When opposites clash -- Very highly recommended	Macy Webb is a good time girl more interested in partying today than worrying about tomorrow. Her arrested adulthood looks like Peter Pan syndrome as she thrives on mayhem and chaos for the creative spark that gives her work dazzle. Even her work is really play as she ponders editorial content and design for the interactive e-commerce Web site and mail order catalog gIRL-gEAR, iNC. wearing flannel pajamas in her living room &quot;office.&quot; She uses her friends on &quot;game night&quot; to test fun and advice columns for the Web site. Her latest game is an adult scavenger hunt that leads to unexpected results.<br />Leo Redding accompanies his friend after their soccer match, not realizing what he's getting himself into. Participation is mandatory from all inside the loft of game night. The starch on his collar leaves Macy questioning how he can possibly play her game, but play he does with explosive results. A sizzling passion ignites as they become partners competing against each other in the scavenger hunt. Macy doesn't fit his preferred type, so Leo persuades himself he's only responding to the mystery of the unknown. Her wild child looks and playful approach to life clash with his lawyerly, logical view of the world. Yet Leo is irresistibly drawn into the chaos of her life, even as he struggles against it.<br />Alison Kent captures the unique entanglements facing modern women in ALL TIED UP. With the sexual revolution has come permission to indulge one's fantasies, to pursue those delightfully erotic relationships that titillate and please. Unfortunately, demands on time by career and other concerns make pursuing the emotional sides of those relationships even more challenging than ever before; a conundrum that Kent exploits with delightful results. Both the plot and subplot explore sexual relationships and the accompanying emotional ramifications with entertaining flair. Extremely erotic and daring, while tasteful and tantalizing, with a marvelously subtle subtext of emotional complications, ALL TIED UP comes very highly recommended.	2002-01-09
1701253:US	49693975	RTC5F9E3U67IB	0373441347	53624186	Duets 2-In-1 (68) (Naughty Or Nerdy?/The Husband Hotel)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Outrageous fun! Highly recommended	Romance in hotels becomes the common theme in DUET #68, which includes NAUGHTY OR NERDY? by Elise Title and THE HUSBAND HOTEL by Darlene Gardner. Both are comedic delights, offering delightful distraction to readers who enjoy the necessary deceptions of the spy world to bring hearts together. Under cover work has never been more fun!<br />A ten-year class reunion would be the perfect time for Private Investigator Judd Turner to reveal his transformation from college nerd to PI hottie. Unfortunately, his boss has other ideas, planning to send him to the reunion in retro nerdy to investigate a money-laundering mobster. Too bad the girl of his dreams has gotten engaged to him nemesis. Now he's got a padded butt and waste line, fake braces and thick glasses, not to mention a powder blue tux. His investigation only makes him long for Lucy to see beyond the nerdy to the new improved man within. But before he can reveal the truth, Judd's got to make sure of Lucy's innocence, shake the class siren that wants to use her wiles to bring him into the mobster's fold, and stay alive long enough to complete the assignment.<br />Tara Patterson holds a newly acquired degree in hotel management and has earned her first job as the hotel manager of the Reston Excursion Inn. She enjoys the business travelers nearby Washington D.C. attracts, lightly flirting with the gentlemen guests while still maintaining appropriate professional distance. Indeed, she's a pro at managing men, having spent her life practicing on her father. Except this time she got a bit impatient with his dithering, announcing she was using her degree at hotel manager to create a husband hotel where she'll have her pick of her who to marry. Now her newly hired maintenance man is actually her father's spy assigned to prevent her from getting married before she comes to her senses. And it doesn't take maintenance man Jay Overman long to decide the best way to keep other man away is to keep her interested in himself.<br />Undercover work in motels provides marvelous humor in this duet selection, as questions of honesty and truthfulness lend powerful underlying themes to these to these lighthearted spy games. Title's shower scenes and seduction games lend NAUGHTY OR NERDY a touch of the risqué. Gardner's marvelous characterizations complete with Alley the cat, and an office assistant that's better at fixing faucets than polishing her nails lend THE HUSBAND HOTEL a marvelous, off-beat humor. Indeed, both authors' wonderful characterizations and touch of slapstick humor make this duet selection a must read. Highly recommended.	2002-01-09
1701283:US	49693975	R2GH72ITEU7UD2	0373710321	798691847	Lydia Lane: Girlfriends (Harlequin Superromance No. 1032)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Domestic bliss -- Highly recommended	Zoey Phillips, Charlotte Moore, and Lydia Lane met just after high school while working at a wilderness resort in the Rocky Mountains. Ten years later at the reunion of the Jasper Park Lodger summer staff, someone speculates what fun it might be to look up the boy that led to their first heartbreak. Perhaps he's balding, paunchy, and boring. Then at the next year's reunion, they'd all report their results. While Zoey and Charlotte are planning wedded bliss, Lydia Lane doesn't pursue her first love; instead, he finds her.<br />When ex-wife Candace Penelope Downing invites Lydia Lane to be a guest on her afternoon talk show, Sam Pereira immediately recognizes the long legged beauty as his best friend's sister. She'd had a crush on him when she was fifteen, but with her being five years younger, Sam hadn't been interested. One look at this domestic goddess now, however, and he's more than interested. So when Candace suggest that Sam give Lydia a call and hire her to put his household in order, he places the call right away. Hawaiian pizza and soggy salad are getting old, and Sam's ready for a change. But he had best watch his step or Lydia may be organizing more than his closets and teaching him to sort laundry.<br />Lydia Lane's great-aunt inspired her business called Domestica, a service that organizes people's lives and teaches them household skills. For a hefty price, she creates order out of chaos. But she finds her emotions spinning wildly out of control as she spends time with Sam. He'd been the bad-boy with the motorcycle, and now he's making good, trading corporate life for working out of the office at his home and volunteering a third of his services to the down-and-out. Nevertheless, he still prefers a motorcycle to a BMW. Unfortunately, with everyone telling them each how perfect they are for the other, both Lydia and Sam get a lot of heat from external sources that threatens to smother their own burning desire.<br />Author Judith Bowen concludes the delightful miniseries Girlfriends with LYDIA LANE. A character driven romance that never shirks the value of the domestic arts, LYDIA LANE proves surprisingly entertaining. Well meaning friends that think Lydia and Sam are perfect for each other threaten their new relationship, as do the sticky ethical issues involved. Despite such complications, Lydia and Sam prove the way to one's heart is not limited to the kitchen. A delightful, romp with a terrific child propelling the action along, LYDIA LANE comes highly recommended.	2002-01-09
1701521:US	49693975	R946FDETW6QB1	0373710372	550544129	Sarah's Legacy: Home on the Ranch (Harlequin Superromance No. 1037)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	The new big city bank manger in Ferguson, Colorado has a reputation for a tough attitude, no longer simply granting loans on a man's word and a handshake. Few townspeople have see the vulnerable side of Bailey Chancellor, a woman who would over extend her generosity because a man's family faces a crisis or take in strays. Even fewer would suspect her soft heart stems from her own years spent feeling like a stray as she was shuttled through foster care as a child. Such experience has instilled a strong desire for a home filled with children - something her neighbor Trent Murdock makes clear he does not want. Indeed, the only thing Bailey and Trent have in common is a fear of risking devastating loss again. <br />When his seven-year-old daughter Sarah died two years ago, the pain isolated Trent from everyone. His wife had been unable to cope with their daughter's cancer, leaving a few weeks before Sarah's death. Trent still feels empty, filled with only grief. When he sees the stranger at his daughter's grave sympathetically admiring ornaments, he resents her presence. He planted a Christmas tree at his Sarah's grave, adding ornaments periodically as the mood suits him. Trent resents Bailey's intrusion into his life even as he finds himself wildly attracted to her. Conversely, Bailey's had enough of shallow men who don't believe in love and romance. Despite Trent's obvious resistance, she feels drawn to him, and wants to release some of the pain haunting his eyes.<br />Trent and Bailey find themselves at cross-purposes that eventually lead to healing in SARAH'S LEGACY. Trent wants to isolate; Bailey draws him from his reclusive shell. Trent had a family and lost it; Bailey has never had a family and wants to create it. Such complexity of characterization lends the novel realism and believability as the characters move toward healing and self-forgiveness. With a charming menagerie of pets, from a half blind horse to a dog that jumps six foot fences, SARAH'S LEGACY becomes a delightful blend of the poignant and the amusing, resulting in an incredibly touching tale. Do be certain to have a tissue handy, as the tears come from the touching and from the joyful. Very highly recommended.	2002-01-09
1705143:US	49693975	R2Y1Z4RB44PDDH	0373790228	875384323	Her Secret Thrill (Harlequin Blaze, No 18)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Provocative! Very highly recommended	Their agreement seems so simple. Two consenting adults who don't have time to pursue relationships but are in need of sensuality that works around their itineraries agree to meet when they happen to be in the same town. The sex is incredible and without emotional complications. But Jake Lannister will find himself challenged when he decided he wants to be more than just her secret thrill.<br />Unusual circumstances and the late hour lead Natalie Holcomb to act very uncharacteristically when she rents a room with Jake. Their mind numbing encounter leaves her satiated, and yet hungry for more. But it doesn't take long for lust to lead to love for Jake. Too bad Natalie's responsibilities and reserve don't allow her to yield to emotional complications. <br />Erotic and enticing, HER SECRET THRILL is as thrilling as the Blaze line promises. Sensuality explored through strawberries and chocolate, playfulness and naughtiness, results in a hot read. The emotional complications are well defined, and wonderfully exploited, lending the characters a convincing depth. Steamy and passionate, HER SECRET THRILL will thrill all lovers of erotic romanticism. Belonging on the keeper shelf, HER SECRET THRILL is very highly recommended.	2002-01-06
1705493:US	49693975	ROIUAFLYIQ2E5	0373271891	189623227	Hard to Resist (Charmed and Dangerous) (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1119)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Extraordinary! Very highly recommended	One weekend two years ago AJ Michaels let reporter Dare McKay too close, too fast. Then out of fear, she seized on a coincidence to accuse him of professional impropriety, effectively restoring the distance between them. Part of her still wants to let him close, but a stronger part finds the idea repellant, lest she wind up like her mother. Now a case forces them to work together, and AJ finds her defenses crumbling every time Dare is near. Indeed, the way Dare slips past her defenses is more dangerous than any criminal AJ has ever prosecuted.<br />One of the city's most respected journalists and winner of two Pulitzer prizes, Dare has doggedly followed a path of corruption for years that now leads to working with AJ. He can never seem to forget the two intoxicating nights they shared, or stop baiting her into a response, even if it's negative. AJ needs his knowledge of Chicago's criminal underbelly. He needs to find a way to get close to her and win her trust.<br />The second part of the Charmed and Dangerous miniseries, HARD TO RESIST follows HARD TO HANDLE with a powerful storyline and extraordinary characterizations. The unifying conflict of the series gains momentum, yet HARD TO RISIST could also be read as a standalone. AJ's complex family relationships and contradictory feelings add sympathy, while Dare's own family story provides powerful motivation. The past paced plot keeps the pages turning. Add this series to your keeper shelf, and watch for the concluding installation, HARD TO TAME. Very highly recommended.	2002-01-06
1706293:US	49693975	R1FSIDJ71SHWTV	1588514277	964961325	Four Fifths	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	As he follows his usual morning routine, Dr. Kyle Ellis happens to catch a guest artist and photographer on a morning news program. Although he would never meet her, Jade Marshal would change his life. Her description of fleeing the life as human sardine to a cabin's isolation in update New York made Kyle examine his own life. Being packed in with people on the freeway in his Mercedes and working as President of a company on the thirty-fifth floor suddenly feels confined and narrow. In an unrehearsed speech before his staff, he announces an extended leave. That leave will take him to the shores of a lake where he'll meet the woman who transforms his life. <br />Angela Collins unknowingly enters Thorton Millshire's office with a script in one hand and the missing four-fifths of his life in the other. When his wife died many years before in childbirth, she had taken that part of him with her. She left him with a son, but that son is sadly lacking, and conceals a cruel, malicious streak. An emotional freedom and merges their souls, allowing them to become best friends, advisors, and confidants to each other. Unfortunately, a thirty-five year gap exists between Angela and Thorton. While the age difference doesn't matter to Angela, it matters very much to Thorton. When tragedy strikes, taking Thorton from her, Angela feels like she's lost four-fifths of her soul. She leaves for a place a friend described once on a lake, and meets Kyle.<br />Not an ordinary love story, FOUR-FIFTHS will leave the reader breathless with the depths of passion and the darkness of pain it presents. At times shocking, always riveting, FOUR-FIFTHS brings together a powerful cast of characters from the ordinary to the extraordinary, from good to evil. Thorton is every woman's dream, but a generation away from sharing a life time with the woman he loves. Angela is wounded, damaged by an act of cruelty beyond measure, finding healing in the midst of agony. Kyle learns the lessons of loving selflessly, and the joy of connection. Minor characters likewise make a memorable impact, as FOUR-FIFTHS explores the pain of loss and joy of living. Winner of the WordWeaving Award of Excellence.	2002-01-05
1706525:US	49693975	R2ATEJLP2Y8AY2	0940112019	473366358	Grandpa Loved	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Through his impressive example, Grandpa teaches an older boy how to love the beach as they feel the water and smell the sea air. Indeed, Grandpa loved the wind, the woods, the city, the people, the animals and all things that inhabit those spaces. With his grandpa, the boy learns to listen, to feel, and to love his world, too.<br />Featuring the distinctive, water colors of illustrator Maureen Hyde,GRANDPA LOVED will touch the hearts of the young, and the young at heart. The spectacular illustrations reveal the illustrator's impressive technique with surprising detail and realism, seeming to glow on the page as they accompany the simple message of love and memory. With a creative appeal to the senses and to the heart, author Josephine Nobisso shows how the love of grandpa lives in the lessons he shared. Simple yet wise, GRANDPA LOVED is destined to become a classic. Very highly recommended.	2002-01-05
1706745:US	49693975	R1MPJO8LFCXVL	1590889835	584178992	Rachel's Journey	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Voyage of self-discovery -- Highly recommended	\\"Rachel Williams, you're much too headstrong and independent for any man to marry. Ever.\\" Those cruel, taunting words haunt Dr. Rachel Williams, one of the first two women to graduate from the medical college in Philadelphia. So when her cousin's letter arrives with money and suggesting a marriage pool comprised of women willing to relocate to California to become brides of the sponsors, Rachel packs up herself, her cousin Iris and friend Marie. Her cousin's letter promises great need for Rachel's doctoring skills; perhaps in California she can be a woman and a doctor without choosing between her personal and professional lives. Her cousin Iris' congenital hip defect that causes a limp will likewise be overlooked. Marie's illegitimate son and her own status can be replaced with a solid reputation of widowhood instead. Indeed, California promises a second chance for all three women. <br />Rachel faces extraordinary challenge with a spirit of determination. As the women journey by coach to meet the wagon train, she faces down a would be stagecoach robbery. Such spirit carries her through almost insurmountable odds on the journey with Jeb Morgan's wagon train across the west. The dangerous terrain, arduous conditions, and threats to her heart from their guide, all combine in a bold journey. Rachel proves her doctoring skills again and again, but rather than finding appreciation in Jeb, her skills become a source of strife. Jeb doesn't like their quite moments being interrupted by people in need. He looks forward to a traditional wife and mother who focuses on him and their family, not a career minded woman whose time would always be divided between family and duty.<br />RACHEL'S JOURNEY becomes more than just a historical romance that grows with the movement of wagon train crossing America. Mary S. McGuire also explores the contradictions, triumphs and tragedies presented by a doctor dedicated to an exacting career. The conflicts, while unusual in their time, are certainly still common to our own era, lending this historical romance a marvelous contemporary relevancy. The journey becomes not just a voyage across country, but also an internal journey of self-discovery as Rachel makes choices that determine her future time and again. The characters of RACHEL'S JOURNEY are also wonderfully created with depth, compassion, and poignancy. Secondary characters add richness as we learn their stories, cheer their triumphs and empathize with their pain. A powerfully told tale beautifully rendered, RACHEL'S JOURNEY comes highly recommended.	2002-01-05
1712321:US	49693975	R2VJAYUWBX5HOE	0373259581	129744932	Man For Maggie Moore (Montana Matchmakers)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wonderfully entertaining! Highly recommended	The matchmaking festival is over, but the matchmakers have a special request to fill before the holidays. Georgianna Moore, age eight, believes she and her mother Maggie need a new house and a new daddy. She's picked Gabe O'Connor to fill the bill, but Gabe and her mother haven't spoken in four years, following a devastating scandal that rocked both their lives. <br />So far the Bliss matchmakers have been highly successful in their efforts, as demonstrated in A WIFE FOR OWEN CHASE and A BRIDE FOR CALDER BROWN, but this is their greatest challenge yet. In the meantime, Louisa Bliss discovers that romance is not limited to age, despite her sister's disbelief. <br />Kristine Rolofson presents a delightful romp in A MAN FOR MAGGIE MOORE. With her characteristic wit, Rolofson combines the act of healing with the possibilities of love, to result in a light, pleasant romp that transform cold winter nights into heat. With entrancing characters, a wonderful setting, and the return of favorite characters of previous books, A MAN FOR MAGGIE MOORE is a highly entertaining read. Highly recommended.	2002-01-01
1712383:US	49693975	RNVDC7KFOTPHW	0373764073	694574055	Risque Business (20 Amber Court) (Harlequin Desire)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Recommended	Sylvie Bennett will not stand by and just let Marcus Grey take over the company where she's worked for five years without a fight. Colette, Inc. has become her family -- something of special importance to this orphan. When Sylvie boldly charges into the board meeting to confront Marcus, she's prepared to risk her job in order to have her say. Her interruption is fortuitous as her interruption distracts Marcus from his intended purpose.<br />In exchange for a dinner date, Marcus promises to not take any actions against Colette, Inc. during the day's meeting. Marcus is intrigued by a woman who feels so strongly about a company in which she has no ownership. Before that dinner date occurs, however, Sylvie goes online to research a cryptic remark Marcus makes that indicates his motivations. It's not hard to locate a link between Marcus' late father and Colette, Inc. It's very hard, however, to dissuade Marcus from exacting his revenge.<br />On one hand, I am left with some ambivalent feelings for this hero and heroine. During the first half of the book each so intent upon their individual agendas that they scarcely see beyond their own selfish interests except when their libidos get in the way. They engage in playing games of one upsmanship: he sends gifts that she refuses to acknowledge, he promises to call and then leaves her hanging. I wanted to shake the both and tell them to grow up, which they do during the second half of the book as they become self honest and lower their guards to reveal the vulnerability beneath.<br />On the other hand, I adore the premise of this series, in which a dazzling broach leads each woman to the man of her dreams. The owner of the broach and landlady of 20 Amber Court is an intriguing and delightful lady who deserves her own book. Also, the connection of this landlady to Sylvie is surprising and refreshing. Sylvie herself is a powerful character as shown by her brash interruption of the board meeting that had the power to dissolve thecompany she loves. Likewise appealing is Marcus' shift of motives and his realistic fear of vulnerability regarding a woman he doesn't want to need. RISQUÉ BUSINESS therefore comes recommended.	2002-01-01
1713008:US	49693975	R14B64X29Q2ZC4	1588511243	711609255	Hidden Stars	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Powerful lessons beautifully rendered -- Highly recommended	With all the painful and difficult challenges his family currently faces, Tim feels like no one listens to him. His parents make him feel like an outcast. His mother Lisa has recently been diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis. His baby sister has Cerebral Palsy. In addition, his beloved grandfather's hard life makes him seem very old and frail, making Tim worry about him his well.<br />One magical weekend while his mother has more tests, Tim visits his grandfather's house in White Bear Lake, Minnesota. Together, Tim and his grandfather build a small Viking ship, roast marshmallows, and go fishing. His grandfather gently prods Tim's feelings, always with unconditional love and acceptance. When Tim is with his grandfather, he feels at peace and is happy. But all too soon the weekend ends, and Tim faces the most painful days of his young life.<br />Chris Duschik presents a gentle and moving tale in HIDDEN STARS. Tim's grandfather leads him to the path of self acceptance and healing. As he comes to understand his family better, Tim learns more about himself and his abilities, leading to renewed inner strength. He also comes to understand that we carry the gift of love, given by people like his grandfather, as a hidden part of ourselves. As long as we live, those people we love live within us. Powerful lessons for a young boy, powerfully told for young readers on their own paths of self discovery. HIDDEN STARS comes highly recommended.	2002-01-01
1714390:US	49693975	R3OIF8LZQWL6RX	1587470128	283764999	Win Your Child Custody War: Child Custody Help Source Book	Books	5	27	28	N	N	An incredible resource -- Very highly recommended	Choosing to give my ex-husband custody of our very young children was one of the most difficult decisions I have ever made. Later battles for visitation rights and custody have been the most painful events of my life. I have endured restraining orders based on lies, long distance visitation, and the psychological devastation of being separated from my children. My case went to the worst of extremes when my lawyer resigned my case in order to testify on my behalf in court. Because of the injustice of the handling of the restraining order, my case was used as the example that changed a school's non-custodial parent pickup policy. Along the way, I made many of the mistakes common to parents in my situation and learned many lessons the hard way. I wish I had WIN YOUR CHILD CUSTODY WAR when I began those battles; the information, advice and warnings would have made the battle far easier. <br />WIN YOUR CHILD CUSTODY WAR provides the legal details and information an informed parent needs before and after hiring a lawyer, detective, or even a psychologist. WIN YOUR CHILD CUSTODY WAR sets realistic expectations, includes straight talk with no mollycoddling, and lots of sound advice. Logs, affidavits, and home studies are covered with meticulous detail and with sound examples. As the author cautions, however, readers also need to follow the advice of their lawyer over the book. For example, in the extreme case of a parent who does not want to visit the child and would stop harassment if not required to pay child support, the author suggests: &quot;You could get counseling, legal assistance or return the money the court sends you each month from the other parent.&quot; I know from personal experience that you could return the parent's money in the state of AR. In the state of GA, the money isn't yours, it belongs to your children, and you are required by law to accept the money, just as the non-custodial parent is required by law to pay. No exceptions. <br />Encouragement andcommon sense are also included in the WIN YOUR CHILD CUSTODY WAR. Some battles are better walked away from, especially when the battle becomes a matter of winning and not necessarily in the child's best interest. WIN YOUR CHILD CUSTODY WAR forces readers to carefully examine their own motives, behaviors and attitudes. It also warns of the pitfalls many parents fall into, and provides tips for how to avoid them. As I turned the pages, revisiting my own battles, challenges and mistakes, I couldn't help thinking of the emotional pain this book could have saved me. Simple things like plan an activity for when you return the children to their custodial parent would have been useful advice from the beginning of my battle. In addition, WIN YOUR CHILD CUSTODY WAR is very sensitive to the issues non-custodial mothers face, especially considering the harsh judgment society places on women without custody.<br />This is the most personal review I have ever written, but given the nature of the book, I feel compelled to offer personal confirmation of the value of WIN YOUR CHILD CUSTODY WAR. Surprisingly, I also found a lot of self-forgiveness as I read this book. As I revisited old wounds and previously second-guessed decisions, I found confirmation of my own good decision-making, giving the book a remarkably positive spin for this battle weary, but successful warrior. Very highly recommended.	2001-12-31
1715211:US	49693975	R19PWZGFCQJCK8	0373710305	4673141	Child of His Heart: 9 Months Later (Harlequin Superromance No. 1030)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	The difference between paternity and fatherhood	A broken two year engagement and her grandmother's heart attack lead Erin Hanson to leave Seattle and return to her small hometown. She finds it comfortable to greet folks on the street she's known all her life, to settle into an assistant manager's role at the bank, and to live with her grandmother. She still vaguely hopes for a reconciliation with her ex-fiancé, but isn't overly concerned when he never calls. Then the new fire chief Nick Dalton arrives in town and she finds herself avoiding even an introduction as she anticipates her responses to the town's sexiest bachelor.<br />Something about Erin captures Nick's attention from the first glance. With a precocious twelve-year-old daughter he's anxious to remove from a big city lifestyle, Nick looks forward to settling into his new home. At least the kids in Hainesville don't sport eyebrow and bellybutton piercings like his daughter, or the tattoos of the boys she preferred in LA. Nick's also troubled by the confession his wife made on her deathbed regarding the paternity of their daughter. So he doesn't react graciously when Erin announces her pregnancy. But he can't just forget about her, either.<br />Responding to CHILD OF HIS HEART is a bit difficult for me. On the one hand, I grew impatient through the first half of the book. While the necessity of the heroine's heart to be free to love another is obviously necessary for the plot line, despite her pregnancy, Erin's feelings for the father of the baby seem a bit thin. After all, they were engaged for two years; their child was conceived during the weekend they broke off the engagement because he insisted upon another postponement; he's running for congress and refuses to acknowledge the child; and he's sleeping with the woman from his office that openly pursued him while he was engaged. At the least, I would expect some genuine anger and disillusionment. Instead, Erin holds out for the possibility of reconciliation, even when he blows her off after she announces her pregnancy. And leaves for a date with the office bimbo.<br />On the other hand, Nick's responses are genuine and convincing given the weight of his burden regarding his daughter. He handles the news of the pregnancy badly, as I would expect, but reconsiders over time. As he reconciles the difference between paternity and fatherhood, my heart couldn't help but reach out to him. His obnoxious twelve-year-old daughter only adds to the fun as he struggles with raising a child/woman and all that inludes. These tangled and challenged relationships give CHILD OF HIS HEART a depth that makes it an engaging read that comes recommended.	2001-12-30
1715479:US	49693975	R1CS4HY7FC9LI8	0373169019	828015687	Triplet Secret Babies	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Triple the fun! Very highly recommended	With their guard dropped after a night locked in a convenience shop storeroom, Briana McCallum and Hunter Callaghan give in to the overpowering passion that sparkles between them. Their lovemaking is divine as they connect on the spiritual plane as well as the physical. Hunter wakes, planning to shower and change before offering to turn his world upside down for her over breakfast. Unfortunately, when Hunter arrives back at her hotel room thirty minutes later, Briana is gone. When he learns her last name and association with the Maitland fortune, he assumes she's one more rich woman playing at being a do-gooder and slumming with him.<br />Briana wakes to a sounding alarm and only a stud for his tuxedo shirt to prove the reality of their extraordinary passion. Disappointed because she'd found the night to be something special, she leaves for the airport feeling angry. Seven months later, and pregnant with triplets, Hunter reappears in her life where Briana's the hospital administrator. But she's not named the father of her babies, and has no intention of doing so.<br />The well-crafted conflict in TRIPLET SECRET BABIES will delight romance lovers. While I ordinarily disdain romances built around a misunderstanding, the careful plotting of this disaster left me amused instead. These are two splendid characters trapped by their own preconceptions and babies. The fireworks that result keep the pages turning quickly, providing a marvelous read. Very highly recommended.	2001-12-30
1716213:US	49693975	R23PE3Y0G01DI5	0940112035	647821964	Shh! The Whale Is Smiling	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Author Josephine Nobisso and illustrator Maureen Hyde bring enchantment to the play of shadows and wind deep in the night in SHH! THE WHALE IS SMILING. As a fierce wind blows outside their home, a sister comforts her brother turning fear of the cold dark into a warm, safe place of imagination. Flying in their bed to the sea, they join a whale swimming among bubbles in a world of their marvelous creation.<br />The fear of the dark, wind and storms is gently confronted in this imaginative story for children. The dark becomes deep water, movement the swimming of a whale, and wind a part of the mystery of the sea, thereby replacing the fearful with the imaginative. A delightful tale, with fabulously realized illustrations, SHH! THE WHALE IS SMILING comes very highly recommended.	2001-12-29
1716222:US	49693975	R2YYREEWAZ9RHA	037376409X	743766987	Michael's Temptation (Tall, Dark & Eligible) (Silhouette Desire)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A wonderful adventure! Highly recommended	Devotion to the woman who treated them as a mother motivates three handsome bachelors to find wives quickly in Eileen Wilks' Tall, Dark, &amp; Eligible miniseries. Ada's experimental treatment is exorbitantly expensive, but they'll do anything to prolong her life. To pay for her treatment, they must fulfill the rules of their trust. Michael has selected the woman he plans to marry as a business proposition, but must go on a rescue mission before they marry. That rescue mission changes everything.<br />Michael does not expect the minister he is rescuing to be a woman. The Reverend Alyssa Kelleher, who prefers the nickname A.J., came to the jungles on a teaching mission to fulfill her late husband's dream. She had put off their missionary trip for three years; coming after her husband was shot down in a senseless convenience store robbery. A.J. refuses rescue unless he also lends aid to the nun with her.<br />Fleeing gunfire, jumping off cliffs and tromping through the jungle provides a bonding experience that neither wanted. Moral and ethical concerns separate them; passion draws them together. And while they might set aside their differences for the sake of survival, return to civilization means a return to enormous challenges.<br />Eileen Wilks' MICHAEL'S TEMPTATION delivers a heart pounding tale of survival against incredible odds. The intensity of the plot serves to underscore the intensity of the connection between A.J. and Michael. These are believable characters that suffer both physical weakness and emotional wounds with grace. MICHAEL'S TEMPTATION is a marvelous read, though it does suffer from the restriction of being a series romance. With so many complex motivations and challenges, many elements deserve far more development than space allows. Nevertheless, MICHAEL'S TEMPTATION comes highly recommended.	2001-12-29
1716274:US	49693975	R143NUCRO96ZYG	0373271913	816943866	Baby, Baby, Baby (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Ordered chaos has never been so much fun! Highly recommended	Women like Melanie Spears who know the exact shade of yellow necessary to paint their nursery, but have the color in their head and not a paint chip, do not belong with over protective, impatient ex-husbands like Sonny Randle. Especially when they want to have a baby not with said ex-husband, from a test tube. And women who thrives on lists, schedules and post-it notes do not belong with men who's chaotic lives negate the ability to make a date, an appointment, or any other schedule.<br />So after a whirlwind courtship and a wedding a city hall, it seems inevitable that Melanie Spears would walk out on her undercover-cop husband Sonny Randle and obtain a divorce. But Sonny's not giving up. Now he knows what he did wrong and he's prepared to fix it. He buys the ramshackle house across the street from Melanie and begins his plan to win her back before a test tube takes his place. And his planning blows Melanie's carefully scheduled life into chaos.<br />Ordinarily I would be skeptical of a plot bringing together ex-spouses, but author Mary McBride pulls it off with aplomb. The clashing of opposites takes on ridiculously pleasing proportions as the battle between organization and chaos reigns. The added conflict provided by Melanie's plans for procreations only add to the fun, making BABY, BABY, BABY a highly entertaining read guaranteed to relieve the winter blahs! Highly recommended.	2001-12-29
1717462:US	49693975	RCRMT9GISSKWP	0373271875	500223272	Brand - New Heartache (The Oklahoma All-Girl Brands) (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	A terrific read! Very highly recommended	Wade Armstrong spends thirteen years proving himself to the small town of Big Falls, Oklahoma. He won't be happy until he's the most successful businessman in town, and owns the biggest house on the highest hill so he can look down on them all. Too bad Wade procrastinated too long before signing the contract for the house of his dreams. When he arranges to meet the real estate again, Edie Brand shows up as well. His efforts to sandbag her purchasing the house backfires, and now she's moving into the house he wanted. <br />Edie left L.A. when her contract as a lingerie model was fulfilled. Speculation abounds, but tabloids failed to trace Edie back to her hometown. She's kept a low profile, but the stalker that drove her out of L.A. finds her, leaving a &quot;gift&quot; of handcuffs in a plain box in her mother's kitchen. She doesn't tell anyone of the numerous &quot;gifts&quot; and letters the stalker sent, or just how threatening they have become. The threats drive her out of her mother's house and into a place of her own so she can protect her family from lurking danger. And now Wade has taken it upon himself to protect her.<br />Book two of The Oklahoma All-Girl Brands miniseries continues the excitement with pizzazz in BRAND-NEW HEARTACHE. Maggie Shayne presents a vividly realized, fast paced novel with extraordinary characterizations and a terrific plot. When opposites clash, Edie and Wade find that have quite a lot in common, beginning with hidden interest stemming all the way back to high school. Secondary characters are likewise believable and enchanting, including a mother who's never wrong and an empathic sister who sense energy flows. A fabulous read, BRAND-NEW HEARTACHE comes very highly recommended.	2001-12-28
1718983:US	49693975	R3V68SF39WV5OS	0821770101	849149821	The Devil's Due (Zebra Book,)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Best of the series! Very highly recommended	English sea Captain Gray Sinclair awakens thinking he has the hangover from hell until he finds the knot on the back of his head and the bars imprisoning him. Now in Scotland, he faces hanging for a murder he did not commit. The gravity situation is only lightened by the inability of the four brothers who hold him captive to be able to control their sister Bonnie MacTavish. Raised with only with male influence, Bonnie dresses, fights, and uses weapons like a man. With long fiery red hair, the spirited Bonnie entrances Gray. <br />Bonnie is betrothed to a man of a neighboring clan, hoping to bring peace to a three-generation struggle. While she has serious misgivings about the marriage, she believes in putting her personal desires second in favor of her clan's needs. Certainly no man, especially not her fiancé, has caused the fierce desire she feels for the Englishman. Soon Bonnie doubts Gray's guilt, and when he's convicted, determines to free him. Gray kidnaps her instead. As they journey on Gray's quest to restore his family's fortunes, Bonnie's desire for Gray grows. The stronger her attraction for him becomes, the more fiercely she fights it.<br />The youngest Sinclair finds quiet an adventurous path to love in THE DEVIL'S DUE. Prepare to burn the midnight oil with this fast paced plot of murder, high sea adventure, lost treasure and found love; while readers will find themselves a bit breathless, they will also find themselves immensely satisfied with this wonderful tale. Surprisingly, the high adventure never overwhelms the poignancy of the personal struggles of the hero and heroine. Strong sensuality and fierce family loyalty likewise heighten the reading experience. Indeed, THE DEVIL'S DUE is a bonnie romance that comes very highly recommended.	2001-12-27
1719110:US	49693975	R3N0XT5OMUGYH4	0515132292	832702369	Wild	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Sizzling -- Very highly recommended	The words &quot;I want you,&quot; transform sinfully sexy Zane Winston's life as intense awareness arcs between himself and the mysterious Gypsy woman. Her words send his senses reeling with possibility, echoing the passion of his erotic dreams. Before he met Tamara Tremayne, Zane subtlety controlled his relationships, cautious about how much he reveals or how much he gives. With three words, the Gypsy sends him careening out of control, filling him with desire and leaving him hot and resentful.<br />Faced with selling her shop and moving, Tamara ventures across the street to visit Zane's computer shop determined to act on the advice of the journal she is reading. Tamara appears to be Gypsy with long black hair, black eyes, flowing skirts, and all of the appropriate accouterments in her shop for palmistry and tarot card reading. Behind the mysterious silences lies a talented technical writer, the responsible family woman who cares for her aging relatives, and blond hair.<br />WILD by Lori Foster is a sizzling voyage of discovery. Tamara learns there is more to Zane than the sexy heartthrob who dances topless on the tabletops of his brother's bar. Zane quickly comes to appreciate the woman behind the mysterious façade who's remarkable strength matches his own. In addition to self-discovery, however, lies a very serious danger. Someone stalks the Gypsy lady, breaking into her shop and following her on the streets. Now the very self-reliant Tamara must not only learn to trust her heart, but her safety to another.<br />A sensual treat that combines fascinating character development with a terrific plot, WILD will satisfy the most discerning readers. Not only do the main characters sparkle, but the secondary characters are likewise dazzling with nuance and flavor. Tamara's unorthodox family, her employee Luna, and Zane's cousin Joe all come alive with this masterful author's pen. A tantalizing and titillating delight, WILD lives up to it's title with flair! Very highlyrecommended.	2001-12-27
1719889:US	49693975	R3TF19J384SRAY	0515132403	99179858	Touched by Fire (Seduction Romance)	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Very highly recommended	The people of London love a good hanging and none more so than the sixteenth Earl of Haverwood. Perhaps he had good reason, as his wife had been one of Jack Cady's victims. While Cady had raped and then slit the throat of his victims, Mary had the misfortune of not only to survive her assault, as her husband witnessed her violation, but also to bear a son of the rape. At the age of nine that child, Colin Wescott, stands beside the Earl, witnessing his father's hanging. As the hangman grasps the lever to release the platform, the child hears the words: &quot;You've got his eyes, got that rutting blackness festering inside you. You can't hide it though. I see it and so will everyone else.&quot;<br />Although Colin eventually stops fearing the Earl, the legacy remains that he fears himself. As the son of Jack Cady, Colin fears the dragon within that might harm others. But with the approach of his twenty-eighth birthday, word comes that he must marry to retain stewardship of orphans at St. George. It is unthinkable that the stewardship would pass to others -- St. George is Colin's means of atoning for the sins of his father. Worse, Colin fears marriage and the lust that accompanies it -- that same lustful dragon which risks releasing the sins his father committed. From the first moment he sees Sarah Banks, Colin's heart is captured, yet he mercilessly denies his passionate response.<br />Sarah Banks runs a profitable gaming establishment that she inherited from her father. As a child, Sarah spent her nights &quot;haunting the gaming hells learning how to win, no matter the price.&quot; Her father was gallant and brave, protecting her from the razor-sharp tongues of society. Unfortunately, her father is also the reason that at twenty-three, she's never married. The few that might offer are only interested in her money, and no man has ever captured her heart. For years Sarah has dreamed of a man with sherry-colored eyes who would only want her heart. The night she sees Colin, she knows she's found the man of her dreams.<br />Colin, however, intends to marry another. He wants a marriage as cold and as sterile as possible, to protect his prospective mate from the fire within. As gossip and rumor cast them together, Colin and Sarah find their fortunes thrown together, even as Colin is determined to remain distanced. Despite the rebuffs and the damage to her pride, however, Sarah is equally determines that she will win, no matter the cost. The question remains, though, if Colin can be caught, and if she'll be able to pay the price.<br />TOUCHED BY FIRE is Kathleen O'Reilly's first novel, but promises great things for this remarkable author. With the touch of a master, she lends the old metaphor of the dragon a startling original power. Indeed, O'Reilly's tightly woven plot, balance of characterization, and attention to historical detail create a memorable novel that I regretted to finish, wishing to linger a bit longer with these wonderful characters -- including the very proper butler with a heart of gold. I do hope that O'Reilly's pen has been busy, because I long to immerse myself in her words again soon. Very highly recommended.	2001-12-26
1720573:US	49693975	R2B4L0JEYZK9LS	0515132276	856780205	Broken Honor	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Danger, intrigue and attempted murder	In the waning years of World War II, American soldiers stop a Nazi train bearing the stolen loot of art, gold and jewelry. The treasures vanish and the paper trail, some fifty years later, seems to have vanished with it. Now a Presidential Advisory Commission looking into the Holocaust assets announces that three of its generals are among those suspected of the treasure's disappearance. All three generals are deceased, but the implications threaten their grandchildren.<br />Irish Flaherty has made a career of remaining coolly aloof in his role in the Army CID as a lieutenant colonel. His father and grandfather instilled his patriotic duty and belief in honor. He intends to prove that his grandfather had nothing to do with the theft. Irish begins a quiet investigation, inadvertently escalating the danger to himself and others. When his investigation leads to Amy, he vows to protect her, despite her rebuffs.<br />Amy Mallory teaches advanced American history at prestigious Memphis college. She's far more concerned with her upcoming tenure hearing than she is with the clipping from the newspaper about her grandfather. She knows he would never have done something unethical. Now someone wants her dead, committing arson to her home and shooting her when she goes to the university to retrieve several boxes of her grandfather's papers. She can't imagine what those boxes could contain that someone would kill for.<br />Assistant to the deputy Secretary of Sate Dustin Eachan knew the story was coming, and hoped it would be lost or ignored. His fast track career may easily be derailed by the actions of his grandfather. He warns his cousin Sally to hide a painting they know was part of the treasure, and sends her into hiding as danger approaches. Somewhat protected from danger by his governmental position, he know his weakness is Sally, the cousin he can never marry.<br />Patricia Potter pens an addictive mystery in BROKEN HONOR that is impossible to put it down. Indeed, BROKENHONOR blends a carefully detailed mystery with a heated romance, making perfect winter reading. As the suspense builds, readers will be left guessing as to identity of the pursuer, but it'll be the end before the bad guy's identified. Further, Potter's meticulous attention to detail ties off all the loose strings and leaves readers immensely satisfied with the conclusion. In addition, the secondary plot involving cousins provides strong friction, with plenty of intrigue and suspicion. With entrancing characterizations, this intriguing novel belongs on the keeper shelf, and comes very highly recommended.	2001-12-26
1720724:US	49693975	R3TWGINAQ0XQM7	0373244355	432070164	Christmas In Whitehorn (Montana Mavericks) (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Highly recommended	Living in Montana, waitress Darcy Montague doesn't give Detective Mark Kincaid the same response to his dark, scowling looks that he'd come to expect from the scum of New York. Despite the fact that she's his neighbor, Mark tries to avoid Darcy's cheer and maternal fussing. Then he surprises himself by accepting her Thanksgiving Day dinner invitation. When when all the other guests cancel, Mark finds them dining alone. Perhaps his mind wants to distance from others, but his body needs human contact. Spontaneous combustion does the rest.<br />Five years without a man's touch leaves Darcy likewise with a need to connect. Selfless devotion to her brother's well-being requires nonstop effort to meet his costly tuition, leaving her little time or energy for her own needs. Further, experience has taught Darcy to keep her brother a secret. Usually when men learn of the boy, realizing he will always be somewhat dependant on Darcy, they disappear. For once Darcy wants to treasure this delicate relationship without risking his disappearance. Unfortunately, her secrets leave the detective suspicious, reminding him of other deceptive secrets in the past.<br />Susan Mallery demonstrates her wonderful skill for creating dazzling characters in CHRISTMAS IN WHITEHORN. Dark and brooding Mark suffers from betrayal and disillusionment. Having stared in the dark side of human nature too long, Mark needs a heroine like Darcy, whose selfless giving and generosity of spirit sharply contrast with his gloomy disposition. A sparkling Christmas story that brings light and love to all the cold winter months, CHRISTMAS IN WHITEHORN comes highly recommended.	2001-12-26
1722151:US	49693975	R1RIHBJ388CAQD	037325959X	800386624	Long Hot Christmas	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Highly recommended	Their arrangement was simple. Marketer Hope Sumner wants to become the next vice-president in her company. Lawyer Sam Sharkey wants to become his firm's next partner. In a world where appearances are everything, they each need &quot;arm candy&quot; to present the appropriate look at seasonal events. So they make an agreement; they will attend this season's parties together, looking appropriately sappy and making lover-like comments without the emotional vulnerabilities that accompany usual relationships. Then Sam suggests that they become lovers as well, since sexual fulfillment is sorely lacking between the tightly booked schedules of their Palm Pilots.<br />Meanwhile, Hope's ready to make changes in her life. She hires an interior decorator to make her apartment more livable. While Mavbelle Ewing brings feng shui to her apartment, she also surreptitiously erases the sharp lines from Hope's life. Suddenly a carefully controlled schedule and work aren't enough to fill Hope's existence. Sam likewise finds himself drawn to the very emotions he professes to avoid. With his law firm representing Hope's company in an upcoming lawsuit, however, trouble approaches on the horizon. Soon they will find themselves facing not only a personal crisis, but also a professional one that will leave them questioning their morals, their values, and their priorities. <br />Author Barbara Daly pens a delightful holiday romance in A LONG HOT CHRISTMAS. The charm lies especially in the details from the feng shui decorator who never seems to send a bill, to Hope's creatively constructed Christmas star. The deeper issues of their professional lives never overtake the narrative, but beautifully highlight the brittle and superficial appearances that conceal their strong personalities. The ending is especially wonderful in the way that Hope and Sam cheer victims of a Christmas tragedy. A lovely read that shouldn't be confined just to Christmas, A LONG HOT CHRISTMAS comes highly recommended.	2001-12-24
1722631:US	49693975	R1P5Z2YYLB5KGP	0505524139	939841716	The Star King (Star Series, Book 1)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Stunning! Very highly recommended	Time and space pause, bringing two people from vastly different worlds together for only moments. Air Force Lieutenant Jasmine Boswell believes she's been shot down over the Saudi Arabian Desert. Prince Romlijhian B'Kah has just witnessed his brother's plane exploding when a vision of what he believes to be an angel saves his life. For a moment, soul mates meet and recognize the profound implications, only to be wrenched away. Later each believes that their meeting was only a hallucination. <br />Nine years later, an alien nation contacts earth to establish trade relations. A glimpse of one of the aliens on television brings instant recognition to Jas. She immediately arranges a six-month absence and smuggles onto the airbase where Rom's star craft is about to launch. Jas is divorced, her life missing something, and she longs to seek answers in the stars. Rom has been disowned from the royal family and is making his living as minor smuggler. As their worlds collide, Jas and Rom struggle with their painful pasts, their growing love and an encroaching evil that threatens to destroy the galaxy.<br />With masterful creativity, author Susan Grant combines science fiction, romance, and nail-biting suspense in STAR KING. Her sexy hero Rom combines sensual pleasure with admiration for stretch marks, making him every woman's fantasy. Jas is a likewise wonderful heroine, with grown children, maturity and a love of adventure. Secondary characters and exotic locations becomes a source of humor and depth. For example, Grant exploits the unusual and the common with a deft touch with a three hundred pound bodyguard named Muffin and a running joke regarding beer. Indeed, the exhilarating plot keeps the pages turning, making STAR KING a keeper. Very highly recommended.	2001-12-23
1723639:US	49693975	R18ULB68CVMTBA	037324438X	289421311	Little Christmas Magic (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Delightful holiday romance -- Very highly recommended	Combine the Grinch with Ebenezer Scrooge and the result lives next door to Beth Lannigen. The widow and her son carefully observe their seasonal rituals in an effort to keep the memory of the child's father alive and to give structure so Beth can survive her devastating loss. Her husband's been gone five years, and the fact that his memory has begun to fade worries Beth. This season she needs a project to get her through the holidays. Recognizing the pain in Logan Ward's eyes as kindred grief, Beth decides to make Logan smile for the holidays.<br />The sound of a child's laughter disturbs Logan's solitude. When he tries to return the seven-year-old to his mother, one thing leads to another, and he finds himself with unwanted attention. Sure, Beth's a wonderful cook, and he enjoys the casseroles she insists that he try, but Logan's carefully guarded grief is too painful to risk letting anyone close to his heart. Despite his prostrations, however, Logan finds himself drawn into the community, adopted by a dog, and eating meals with Beth and her son. Logan better be careful or he's going to regain his reputation as hero rather than a grump.<br />Author Sylvie Kurtz pens a delightful holiday romance in A LITTLE CHRISTMAS MAGIC. As these two grief stricken characters find the path to healing, readers best keep a tissue handy. Tragedy leaves both main characters wounded and fearful of risking love again. This warm tale will heat up cold winter nights, with not only believable and sympathetic main characters, but also a wonderful secondary cast. Between the son and the mutt, readers will find A LITTLE CHRISTMAS MAGIC irresistible. Very highly recommended.	2001-12-22
1724124:US	49693975	R270ODRQ4J0O4O	1930739400	391374569	The Beaded Tapestry	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Highly recommended	Ellyna the Weaver, a fortune weaver, is the only weaver within two hundred miles, a fact that keeps her very busy. Accustomed to such weaves as predictions regarding a first grandchild, Ellyna doesn't expect a carriage of such finery as what approaches one morning. Within the carriage are the prince, Lord Ryaan, and his governess. Coming from the Crown City of the province, Armindan, Lady Anya has come seeking help. Ordinarily the royal family uses their own soothsayers since they do not subscribe to the belief in weave foretelling. Great changes have occured to bring the prince and his governess to Ellyna's doorstep.<br />An unknown assailant assassinated the Royal soothsayer four weeks ago. The two soothsayers subsequently consulted have been unable to help the king. When they reach for the power for foretelling, they feel as if it is snatched away from their grasp. Since Ellyna's talent varies so much from these soothsayers, the King hopes she can lend her aid. Lady Anya has been instructed to bring Ellyna to the palace as quickly as possible.<br />When Ellyna's weave shows her own picture within the Prince's tapestry, she quickly accepts that her destiny and her future are intertwined with the child. Plink, a small dragon, and her assistant Paige accompany Ellyna to the palace. Soon Ellyna finds proof that someone has visited the prince's private rooms, fortunately when he was absent. Then her apprentice Paige is kidnapped, and the subsequent voyage to an island in the Arborland Sea, the secret retreat of the sorcerer Narcedrin, reveals the depth of danger and deception that the prince and the King are subject to. As Ellyna risks her talent and her life for the prince and the King, she finds herself fighting an ancient evil of unimaginable power.<br />THE BEADED TAPESTRY by Elisa J. Weeber weaves a tale of fantasy filled with dragons, power, danger and imagination. With a delicate hand, Weeber mixes fantasy and the fantastic to create a masterful tale certain toplease both young adults and the young at heart. The vivacious characters and the original method of fortune telling present a memorable tale. Highly recommended.	2001-12-21
1730884:US	49693975	RZN6DD8A3Z2UZ	0940112027	451293655	Grandma's Scrapbook	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Winner (...)	An older girl doesn't remember when her grandma's hair was as black as a crow, but she cherishes the lock of it in her grandma's scrapbook. Pictures, wisps of her own baby hair, a flower, and a shell all hold the power of memory. Each precious item tells a story and becomes a living legacy as the girl shares the story of her grandma's scrapbook. With a majestic grace we are reminded that with loss comes sorrow, but memory offers comfort and joy.<br />The beauty of the illustrations underscores the beauty of the message in GRANDMA'S SCRAPBOOK. Illustrator Maureen Hyde brings her love of classical art to bear with her own fluid style, creating illustrations that look and feel like snapshots out of time yet are rich with intensity and emotion. Likewise, Josephine Nobisso pens a poignant tale of memory and joy captured in the pages of a scrapbook and shared through generations. Children will warm to this poignant tale, wishing to create their own scrapbook of priceless memories. Destined to become a classic, GRANDMA'S SCRAPBOOK comes very highly recommended.	2001-12-16
1731634:US	49693975	R154HAKYTIOQBA	0373271832	128719380	Jack'S Christmas Mission (The Protectors) (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Wishes and danger clash -- Very highly recommended	Peggy Jo Riley worked hard to transform her life from victim to victor. She had traded the role of the child of emotionally abusive parents, for the role of physical and emotionally abused teen wife. Three and half years into the marriage, tragedy made Peggy Jo seek a different role. Now she's the star of a successful talk show up for national syndication, and a published author of a self-help book that teaches women self-reliance. Unfortunately, someone resents her success and is stalking her. As threatening letters give way to more overt danger, Peggy Jo wisely hires a bodyguard. But with Jack Parker protecting her physical well-being, Peggy Jo best watch her heart.<br />Jack is a lady's man, loving 'em and leaving 'em satisfied. That is, until he meets Peggy Jo. Her caustic tongue and determination mask a vulnerability that he finds incredibly appealing. But Jack's seen the damage a woman can inflict, and has no intention of risking his heart. Despite his caution, however, not only does Peggy Joe slip past his defenses, but so does her delightful young daughter. As he reads fairy tales to the child, and teaches her the magic of Christmas and Santa, Jack finds himself longing for things he thought he'd never want. The trick is going to be keeping Peggy Jo alive long enough to explore the possibilities. With a dangerous psychopath leaving destruction and threats at every turn, Jack's got his hands full.<br />Beverly Barton's JACK'S CHRISTMAS MISSION delightfully blends the season with a tale of intrigue. The magic of Christmas wishes and the lurking danger create a juxtaposition that heightens the senses and keeps the plot moving quickly. Indeed, this carefully plotted tale will hold the reader's attention to the hair-raising finale. With memorable characters that bear scars of the past, a wonderful child, and a matchmaking housekeeper, JACK'S CHRISTMAS MISSION is a keeper. Very highly recommended.	2001-12-15
1732548:US	49693975	R239PRR12F3BU9	0373790171	831149090	In His Wildest Dreams	Books	3	3	3	N	N	The substance of dreams -- Recommended	Millionaire Nick Ryder talks his sister into giving him an extra turn at their Aspen place at Thanksgiving in return for assistance to her friend. Emma Snow only needs one more person to participate in her dream study so that she can complete her master's degree. As a nontraditional student with a reading disability, the path to graduation has already been fraught with challenge. When her last subject bailed at the last minute, it left her precariously close to loosing her opportunity to graduate, which would relegate her to waitressing another year instead of accepting the professional position she's worked so long for. <br />Nick arrives their appointment a few minutes early, catching a glimpse of a divinely sensual woman dressed only in a thong. The substance of fantasy seems to remain well concealed, however, and it's only a few days later that he realizes from his dream that the neat bun, thick glasses, and shapeless lab coat conceal the sensual woman who has taken control of his imagination. Although he continues to dream about her, Nick finds it increasingly impossible to confess the intimate contents of his dreams. When his dreams become the subject of her own fantasies, Emma finds herself equally challenged to resist the impulse to make their dreams come true.<br />Author Debbi Rawlins kicks fantasy into high gear with IN HIS WILDEST DREAMS. While the plot is a little thin, the action is hot with scintillating imagery and imagination. Unfortunately, it is implausible for two people whose interaction has been primarily based on dreams to make the leap into marriage in only two weeks. Nevertheless, the interplay between Nick and Emma proves to be a refreshing, sensual delight as most of their intercourse takes place in their imaginations rather than a bed. Recommended.	2001-12-14
1732867:US	49693975	R37CKQPJ6CJED2	0373271840	455459794	The Renegade and the Heiress (Wide Open Spaces) (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1114)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Light and shadow -- Highly recommended	Fifteen years ago Finn Donovan killed the man who brutally raped his wife and was convicted of manslaughter. A month after he went to prison, his wife died in a car accident. Eight years in prison changes a man, and although no one would say they know him, if there is trouble in the mountain or in the backcountry, the authorities call Finn for help. The best tracker around, his skills are put to the test when he finds a woman wandering alone, her wrists bound with duct tape in the beginnings of a blizzard. Her fierce determination and will to live saved her from hypothermia. Finn is determined to save her from her would-be killers.<br />Heiress Mallory O'Brien doesn't know who wants her dead. Kidnapped and drugged she was aboard a small plane when it down. The world of wealth and privilege didn't exactly prepare her for survival in the Canadian backcountry, but she does have riding skills, stamina, and a desire to live. Finn finds her to be honest, direct and untainted. She becomes the light to Finn's shadows, bringing his life a forgotten dazzle that he's long given up on. Over the years he's learned to shut his responses out, but Mallory slips right past his defenses and makes him hyperaware. While he doesn't believe in second chances, he does believe in atonement. He will keep this woman alive.<br />Author Judith Duncan pens a memorable wilderness adventure in THE RENEGADE AND THE HEIRESS. The juxtaposition of wealth and Canadian backcountry, of a renegade and an heiress, of light and shadow lend the novel depth that will hold the reader transfixed. Duncan's mesmerizing voice weaves a spell that brings her words alive, transporting the reader to a different time and place with an intensity seldom matched. While superficially they are opposites, beneath the surface Duncan and Mallory are evenly matched, which strikes sparks as the situation drives their nerves to the very frayed ends. A marvelous read, THE RENEGADE AND THE HEIRESS comes highly recommended.	2001-12-14
1732906:US	49693975	R2OPXHAWO50LHP	0373244347	998436999	Daughter On His Doorstep (Wilders Of Wyatt County) (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Charming and endearing -- Highly recommended	When a lawyer delivers a two-week-old baby to his doorstep, bachelor Trey Wilder takes one look in his daughter's eyes and knows he's found what has been lacking in his life. The child is the result of a wild weekend in Los Vegas with a showgirl that cried on his shoulder after a torrid weekend together because she was in love with someone else. She didn't tell Trey about the baby because she knew he'd insist that they get married. Instead, she arranged an adoption that subsequently fell through. So amid the diapers, baby books and crib, Trey falls in love with his new daughter. But he's going to need some help if he's going to raise his crops and his child at the same time.<br />Schoolteacher Laurie Oliver, a divorced mother of two daughters, finds herself moving in with her parents and younger brothers for the summer. Her ex-husband has forgotten the meaning of child support, her apartment is being leveled for new construction, and her house won't be ready until August. Surly siblings and arguing parents drive her to distraction, until an aunt suggest she spend the rest of the summer in Wyoming lending Trey a hand with his new baby. The opportunity is a fantasy come true for Laurie, because she'd always dreamed of full time motherhood, having only gotten a teaching certificate to ensure a much needed fall back plan. Bitter experience, however, makes her wary of embarking upon other marriage even with a man like Trey.<br />DAUGHTER ON HIS DOORSTEP by Janis Reams Hudson explores the heart touching realm of love and family. The children are charming and believable, without overshadowing the tender love story. Trey is a natural father, taking easily to caring a baby in a sling, and adapting to diapers and bottles. His instant acceptance and love for his child can't help but touch reader's hearts. Charming and tender DAUGHTER ON HIS DOORSTEP comes highly recommended.	2001-12-14
1733007:US	49693975	R8OAMFIAKFHPG	0373244339	453168978	Father Of The Year (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Highly recommended	Entrepreneur Will Stoner was stunned to learn he'd fathered a son named Harry by Marie Landry. They had only been together once, the night he graduated college and abandoned his responsibilities for once to go home with the pretty waitress. A few months later, when he tried to look Marie up, she had moved. Now Harry is eight, and Marie only informed Will of his paternity because she is dying following a car accident. Will had tried to raise his younger brother Mark after their father died, and believes he failed. He doesn't believe he'll do any better by his son. So he hires a nanny to help.<br />Dena Foster only made it half way through her child psychology degree before she had to withdraw for financial reasons, though she still dreams of completing her degree. She became a nanny following the break up of her marriage to a wealthy, controlling man who left her with nothing. She easily recognizes Harry's need for his father's attention, attempting to bring the two together every way possible. While Will depends on gifts and money to pave the way to love with his son, Dena's perceptive influence shows him the true path to love. But Will had best guard his heart carefully, or he'll find himself vulnerable to not just Harry, but Dena as well.<br />Author Ann Roth pens a perceptive and tender novel in FATHER OF THE YEAR. Harry provides the impetuous to bring these two wounded hearts together, lending the novel a marvelous depth. These dynamic characters demonstrate the challenge of setting priorities and being willing to risk. Men always have such difficulty identifying and demonstrating their emotions, and Will demonstrates these weaknesses very well. Dena and Will's passion and conflict result in a delightful read, making FATHER OF THE YEAR highly recommended.	2001-12-14
1733692:US	49693975	R2BBJJXSV13S3H	0373710267	451382680	Charlotte Moore	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A marvelous conundrum -- Very highly recommended	Zoey Phillips, Charlotte Moore, and Lydia Lane met just after high school while working at a wilderness resort in the Rocky Mountains. Ten years later at the reunion of the Jasper Park Lodger summer staff, someone speculates what fun it might be to look up the boy that led to their first heartbreak. Perhaps he's balding, paunchy, and boring. Then at the next year's reunion, they'd all report their results. Six months after their discussion, Charlotte gains her unexpected opportunity to find out what happened to Liam Connery, the boy she had a crush on in fifth grade. <br />Charlotte's sister Laurel offers to set her up with the opportunity to meet Liam again. Laurel supposedly made arrangements to breed her show Labrador retriever Maggie with one of Liam's dogs. While surprised to learn Liam gave up his dreams of flying to become a breeder, Charlotte happily agrees to drop Maggie off for breeding since she will be working nearby anyway. Charlotte has her own business as a decorative arts supplier, and had landed the opportunity to carry out a special estate appraisal on Prince Edward Island. The job should take three or four weeks, which should give enough time for Maggie's breeding. Unfortunately, Laurel neglects to mention that Liam had second thoughts about breeding one of his gun dogs with a show dog.<br />From the moment he first glimpses Charlotte, Liam doggedly holds himself in careful control. With a haunting dark secret, he doesn't want involvement with a woman. His life is limited to running his breeding and kennel service, and taking care of his marvelous aging mother. But his mother Ada has her own ideas about how things should be, offering to care for Maggie while Charlotte works. One thing leads to another, and soon Ada persuades her son to offer a room to Charlotte. Their house had been set up as bed and breakfast, so they obviously have the room and Ada can use the company. Even as the enigmatic Liam maintains his careful distance, Charlotte can't help regretting that the cheerful boy she knew years ago became such a taciturn man. Yet there's something incredibly attractive about him when he forgets his careful control long enough to smile. <br />Author Judith Bowen creates a delightful conundrum in CHARLOTTE MOORE. Liam falls in love while still struggling with the past. Granted, there are extreme circumstances that certainly justify his decision. However, because he has not told Charlotte the truth of the past, Liam's omission becomes not an ethical issue, but one of honesty. Bowen uses this plot to great effect, leaving the reader to contemplate Liam's dark secrets and question his motives before finally resolving the explanation. Contrasting the dark secrets of the past are several litters of puppies, a  marvelous old house full of treasure, and terrific cast of characters. A novel of surprising depth and marvelous characterizations, CHARLOTTE MOORE comes very highly recommended.	2001-12-13
1733706:US	49693975	R2K0A6GZJGTPTF	0373168993	85816671	Millionaire's Christmas Miracle	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The season of miracles -- Very highly recommended	Widow Amy Blake experienced that once in a lifetime kind of love, and doesn't expect it come around again. She delights in her daycare job that allows her to spend her days with her two-year-old daughter. As grief fades, Amy is still reluctant to let go of her husband, feeling guilty for the spark of attraction she feels for the millionaire that stumbles into her daycare center. Yet circumstances conspire to bring them together again and again, from a lost wallet and an orange juice stain, to a foundling left outside the daycare. <br />Millionaire Quint Gallagher raised his son alone when his wife decided she didn't want to be a wife and mother. With his son grown and out on his own, Quint buries himself in his job, never taking holidays or vacations, nor marking the passage of birthdays or seasons. His son encourages Quint to find a woman, but the scars of the past make the millionaire reticent about women. When he meets the beautiful Amy, Quint tells himself that he's too old for young love. But a rat, two babies and the spirited young mother turn his life upside down, proving that Christmas is indeed the season of miracles.<br />Mary Anne Wilson pens the perfect heart warming Christmas tale in MILLIONAIRE'S CHRISTMAS MIRACLE. Gently confronting some of life's most delicate and painful issues, MILLIONAIRE'S CHRISTMAS MIRACLE overcomes a twenty-year age difference, grief and disillusionment to bring the miracle of new beginnings in this life affirming tale. Amy is a believable heroine determined to assume responsibility, even when it proves to be overwhelming. Quint is a wounded hero, needing the miracles of Christmas and new beginnings to heal old disillusionment. Further, the touching ending can't help but bring a tear to even the most jaded reader. A remarkably balanced tale of love and family, MILLIONAIRE'S CHRISTMAS MIRACLE comes very highly recommended.	2001-12-13
1733779:US	49693975	R1O0ERQM1R7EGW	1929072767	265623435	Degrees of Murder	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very highly recommended	Police Chief Joe Weiss of the Lackenby police department hires Dr. Matthew Shea as an investigative consultant for a dollar a day plus expenses. Shea teaches a popular class at the local university on &quot;Socio-Emotional Origins of Crime&quot;. Weiss once served on the New York City Police Department. Shea brings extensive investigative work and a degree in behavior sciences. Together they form an unbeatable team. <br />Shea tells his students that all crimes have a pattern, if only you closely enough. But Weiss can't find the pattern in a recent rash of murders; three people have died in two weeks, and Weiss hopes a fresh pair of eyes will help. Weiss assigns the nitty-gritty work to his department, thus freeing himself and Shea to examine the bigger picture.<br />The victims of the crimes have nothing in common. Different ethnic groups, male and female, economics and method of death separate them. Soon Shea realizes that the killer is staging the murders, making a victim look like she fought back, for example, when she was actually too drugged to do so. Then several of Shea's students unexpectedly complicate the investigation when they try to use techniques taught in the classroom on the streets.<br />An extraordinarily well constructed mystery, DEGREES OF MURDER will hold the reader's attention riveted as plenty of misdirection and suspects fill the tale with suspense. The setting of a university for the class and many of the cast of characters lends the tale a touch of authenticity, without pushing the envelope of possibility. Moreover, Murphy's background in military experience in security and police work lends the narrative voice a complexity and depth that marks it as a classic. DEGREES OF MURDER is going on my keeper shelf. Very highly recommended.	2001-12-13
1734337:US	49693975	R1IROMD88TUNWL	0345365941	189337593	Last Flight of the Arrow	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very highly recommended	In 1940, Hitler had conquered continental Europe with little resistance, and the predictions were that Britain would be next. Under the command of Squadron Leader Stanley Croft, pilot Officer Bogdan Kapolski leads the Red Section across the skies of England. He becomes an Ace flier when he takes down his fifth plane. Indeed, a wizard in the air, Kapolski becomes one of the best fighter pilots in the Royal Canadian Air Force. He brings those skills to the table again in the Korean War, and then during the Cold War when his government calls him to action to pilot the last flight of the Arrow. <br />In 1945 in the Mariana Islands, a guest reporter Ben Spencer, Canadian war correspondent for the Vancouver Daily News, accompanies a mission to drop bombs on Tokyo. Hits to the plane's port wing and leaking fuel force the crew and reporter to bail out and send a distress call for air-sea rescue. The crew and reporter float in the water and wait for a sub to find them. Spencer's daring to accompany dangerous missions creates a solid reputation for him, later giving him free reign, in his column printed in the Toronto Tribune, to boldly attack policies and politicians that don't, in his view, fulfill Canada's best interests, including the end of the Arrow program. His own investigations in the Arrow will fuel controversy and help bring about the public end of the aircraft.<br />With the advent of the missile age, heralded by the Russian Sputnik, manned interceptors become obsolete. On February 20, 1959 the Canadian prime minister announces to the House of Commons the end of the CF-105 Avro Arrow supersonic fighter-interceptor program. Three hundred million dollars had already been invested in an aircraft, and its draining the economy. Further, Russia claims that the Arrow is a threat to world peace, and promises to disband her own buildup of planes in return for the end of the Arrow project. They do not fulfill their promise. Meanwhile, Canadian and American intelligence learns of their plans, and the Canadians pretend to end the Arrow program, staging an end to the Arrow program while they actually move bases to the far north. As politics, the media, and espionage converge, it will be up to Kapolski to pilot the mission that prevents the advent of World War III. <br />Espionage and intrigue abound in Daniel Wyatt's THE LAST FLIGHT OF THE ARROW. This is a fictional tale based on the myth that some of the Arrows escaped destruction and were used to preserve the free world. Originally published by Random House, where it sold 20,000 copies, the novel has been revised to include more intrigue. Indeed, the cloak and dagger games of the CIA, Canadians and Russians lend the novel amazing conviction. As international tension builds, Wyatt's plot moves at a fast clip, skillfully maintaining the pace and the reader's attention. Credible characterizations bring the plot to life, interwoven with the technical jargon and avionic facts that keep the novel firmly grounded in history. Yet the avionic facts never bog the narrative, keeping the tale fresh even for those who are not necessarily aviation buffs. Very highly recommended.	2001-12-13
1734792:US	49693975	RJBHFHEJQOBGF	0553219464	980678313	HENNESSEY'S HEAVEN (Loveswept)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Heavenly -- Highly recommended	Hennessey thought he'd caught a glimpse of heaven the first time he saw the woman traipsing across land where he's the caretaker. With the drive blocked, she boldly removed her shoes and pantyhose to walk barefoot across the lawn and through the wild flowers, presenting a delectable view to her hidden audience. While he doesn't expect a spitfire when he meets her, Hennessey finds himself irresistibly drawn to the woman who can fix cars, carve lifelike wild life, and mows right through his sister's wildflowers. Heaven certainly isn't boring, as Venny so beautifully proves.<br />Hennessey leaves Heaven McLure stunned when she meets him. She came to family's island retreat to heal from the dissolution of her goals and dreams after the loss of her company and the destruction of her marriage. A woman of principle, Venny didn't pay for hex ex-husband's defense to heal her heart, but because it was right. But she doesn't want him back, has never wanted him back, and refuses to see him or speak to him now that he's finally out of jail. The last thing she needs to be confronted by a sexy man who looks too much like her ex-husband and leaves her shaking with desire.<br />HENNESSEY'S HEAVEN is one of those sweet treats that just, well...heavenly. These well rounded, if imperfect, characters feel as if they stepped right out of real life with their sass and warmth. Amusing, with just enough tension to keep the plot flowing smoothly, HENNESSEY'S HEAVEN is a delightful read. Indeed, author Judy proves the best possibilities of epublishing. Originally published as part of the Loveswept Line, and now reissued as an eBook, HENNESSEY'S HEAVEN would have been a sad loss if relegated to oblivion rather republished. Highly recommended.	2001-12-13
1734881:US	49693975	R1POORYLQLL5Y5	037379021X	957383117	Erotic Invitation (Midnight Fantasies)	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Fabulous! Very highly recommended	Only a year away from her goal, Mallory Sinclair is the last woman to remain line for partnership in her male dominated firm. A good old boys network runs the firm, and she has not yet entirely earned their trust; perhaps a woman never can. But she has earned a reputation for hard work and dedication. Further, Mallory's fierce control of her attraction to Jack Latham sets her apart from the other women in the office, although the no-office romance policy doesn't stop her from fantasizing. Now, as the only female associate in the firm, she is assigned to a very important divorce case to aid Jack. They will be spending an indefinite amount of time as the guests of their firm's biggest client while he decides if he's going of hire them to hand his divorce. Mallory vows to focus on the work at hand as she and Jack head to resort for an informal 'get-to-know-you' session with their eccentric client.<br />Jack, affectionately known as the Terminator and the firm's best-looking partner, is so named for the end he puts to marriages. According to office gossip, he does not believe in the institution of marriage or the idea of commitment. He certainly does not suspect that sexy lingerie that lurks beneath Mallory's power suits; consequently, he grossly misjudging her seductive qualities. So when he announces to Mallory that the firm's biggest client is sending them to a resort of the coast of Long Island, he underestimates the damage Mallory can do to his libido. One look in her eyes leaves him stunned. One foolish comment, and destiny is set into motion. Now they are courting the firm's biggest client in a divorce action that requires that they play hardball. Soon Jack finds that he would much rather be doing other things with Mallory, despite the rules of the office.<br />Jack longs to get beyond the frigid mask Mallory displays to see the woman beneath. He doesn't understand the conflicting emotions she inspires in him, and in his desperation to elicit a response, blurts his thoughts aloud. Mallory can't help wondering how she could be cold and frigid, as Jack accuses, if her taste runs to satin and silk. Perhaps he doesn't like the cold woman she created to survive in a man's world. But now they are away from the office, and ethics be damned. If he wants to see what lurks beneath the veneer of her exterior, then she has enough pride to show him. With all sorts of tantalizing, intriguing possibilities coursing through her imagination, Mallory begins her seduction. But perhaps the strongest lesson for both Mallory and Jack will not be in seduction, but realizing that an erotic invitation isn't enough without fulfillment.<br />Wow! Once again Carly Phillips creates an imaginative romp that really pumps the libido in EROTIC INVITATION. The tantalizing and intriguing plot delights the senses with its erotic overtones and subtle depths. In Phillips hands, mystery becomes a potent aphrodisiac, and seduction an art form. Her style is arousing, sultry. And the characters are sexy and believably distracted in their willingness to see the seduction through and deal with the consequences later. Not necessarily the most well thought out decision, but certainly the most human. Bold, sensual and daring, EROTIC INVITATION comes very highly recommended.	2001-12-13
1735449:US	49693975	R3VG5N7S5GJ9B2	1582970041	349706107	From Me to You: The Reluctant Writer's Guide to Powerful, Personal Messages	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Very highly recommended	Words provide continuity from generation to generation that surpasses our limited life spans to enrich the shared love of friends and family, to bind generations, and to offer hope to the future. Despite the power of words, many people are reluctant writers, uncertain of what to say or how to say it. To that end, authors JacLynn Morris and Paul L. Fair, Ph.D. bring their own writing skills, teaching experience, and research to bear, offering aid to the reluctant writer in FROM ME TO YOU. <br />Simple, easy to follow steps guide the writer through the process of conveying thoughts and emotions that might else wise remain unanswered and unspoken. Using the five basic elements enumerated in FROM ME TO YOU, writers can add depth and value to their messages. Concise explanations and the generous use of examples accompany each step, clearly illustrating each point. Many of the examples are both poignant and inspiring, aiding the prospective reader in finding their own voices and experiences. Difficult to write messages that reveal secrets or explanations likewise becoming easier to write with the aid of FROM ME TO YOU. <br />At last, a writing book for everyone! Whether your words are meant as a thank you, as an apology, to offer comfort or advice, or simply to affirm your love, FROM ME TO YOU will aid all writers in expressing themselves. Powerful, personal messages are our legacy to those we love, regardless of the purpose of the note, and can easily be strengthened by following these simple steps. One of the best writing resources I have encountered, FROM ME TO YOU comes very highly recommended.	2001-12-12
1736900:US	49693975	R1CB0NA589CHJP	0373790198	108708882	You Sexy Thing!	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Recommended	A book signing tour brings opposites Dylan Fairbanks and Grace Mattias together. Dylan's book advises that sex should remain between married partners, applying a logical, methodical approach to sexuality. Grace advises spontaneity and exploration before and after committing to a relationship. But when Dylan accidentally enters the wrong room, catching Grace in the shower, one look at her sexy body throws Dylan into a tale spin. While he might be a conservative stick in the mud, the eroticism Grace inspires has him ready to break out of all his self-imposed strictures.<br />Grace lives in fear that someone will discover that she is a fraud. While she carefully researched her book, drawing from the experience of many other couples, her book is based on exactly that - the experience of other people. She might not be a virgin, but she is not the wild and impetuous woman her appearance suggests. Indeed, her sexual comments are designed to elicit responses and to cover her own inadequacies. When she meets Dylan, however, Grace decided it is time to put her research to work. The chemistry between them is explosive. But the question remains if they can walk away after three weeks of intensity when the book signing ends, or if they can build something more than just sexual experience. <br />YOU SEXY THING by Tori Carrington sparkles with humor. Unfortunately, it lacks the flow that marks Carrington's best work. On one hand, the plot of moving from city to city each day breaks the narrative flow as these characters jump from one conflict to the next. Or perhaps the break neck speed of the plot doesn't allow the sincerity of their feelings for one another to truly develop as their sexual encounters escalate. I also find Dylan's hypocrisy troublesome. He says sex belongs inside marriage, yet plans to marry one woman while sleeping with another. I don't see the extreme wrestling of conscious I would expect from such a man; or single minded determination to reach his girlfriend quickly to resolve the situation. On the other hand, the secondary characterizations are marvelous with outrageous parents and a secondary love story that will keep the reader smiling. Recommended.	2001-12-11
1738121:US	49693975	R2VEZCK5YQA82P	0373259549	878900990	One Hot Texan (Temptation, 854)	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Disappointing	Bad boy Cole McCallum returns to the small town of Coldwater, Texas to seek a bride. It's Friday night, and he has until midnight Saturday to produce a bride. When he originally learned of the terms of his grandmother's will, he shrugged off the loss. Then an arson set by his partner destroyed his business, and without the capitol to begin again, he has nothing. Most of the women he knows couldn't live a week without Neiman Marcus, so hopefully he can find a bride in Coldwater at the local watering hole before closing time.<br />Years of fierce domination by her mother have left Ginny White without even her first kiss. A huge pile of bills and the funeral expenses were her mother's legacy, along with a generous portion of inhibition and guilt. Three beers can give a girl a lot of courage, though. When she asks Cole to dance, he only accepts to stop the other women's catty comments. A kiss on the dance floor is followed by Ginny's reaction to too much alcohol and her body's unfortunate response. Cole takes Ginny home, and the next morning, he proposes. So it's off to Vegas to fulfill his grandmother's conditions on the will. He should have thought ahead to the consequences of his actions.<br />First time author Jane Sullivan debuts with ONE HOT TEXAN. The feisty heroine sparkles from the pages, though her seriously inhibited background and lack of experience is a stretch in plausibility. Worse, the marriage of convenience plot fails to rise above cliché predictability: opposites fall together, marriage to gain property, fireworks during kisses, and heroine who refuses sex on her wedding night. While ONE HOT TEXAN will leave most Harlequin Temptation fans cold, the flaws are not uncommon for first time authors. However, with a titillating voice and a flair for characterizations, Sullivan definitely deserves another read with her next work.	2001-12-10
1738478:US	49693975	RLY9I9EW5L6PW	0373259557	548018958	Mighty Quinns: Brendan (The Mighty Quinns)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Wild and unpredictable -- Highly recommended	As a child Brendan, in a time when there wasn't always enough to eat, dreamed of having enough money to travel the world. He always hated to fight, preferring the power of words to the power of a fist. Sometimes life throws a punch, however, that has to be returned; like the night he intervenes in a fight to assist a pretty waitress. Something about the pretty blond doesn't fit the bar; maybe she moves with to much grace, maybe she is just too classy. Whatever that quality is, others notice too and like to manhandle her. Brendan's brothers had made the mistake of saving damsels in distress and wound up married - a fate Brendan prefers to avoid. But ten minutes after he meets her, before he even knows his name, he wants to kiss her.<br />At twenty-six, Amelia Aldrich Sloane ran away from home a week before her wedding. Tired of the strictures placed upon her by her family and their position in society, Amy has spent the last six months avoiding private detectives and earning her own way. Too bad the guy from the bar got her fired and cost her a place to live. When he appears in the late night fog, she accepts a bunk on his ship for the night. Soon she parlays it into a job as an assistant as Brendan completes his latest book. Born for adventure, Amy would enjoy an affair with Brendan -- which would be the greatest adventure of all. But the question remains as to what will she do if an affair just not enough. <br />The third Quinn falls to the powers of love in THE MIGHTY QUINNS: BRENDAN. While the heroine and hero come from radically different backgrounds, they share a love for adventure. Bold and wild, Amy is an impetuous and bold heroine. While she's a bit immature at times with her silly blame game, she does use it to good effect. She also throws a mean punch, proving her ability to protect herself in the world she's chosen to hide. The harder Brendan protests falling in love, the harder he seems to fall. A wild and unpredictable pleasure, THE MIGHTY QUINNS: BRENDAN comes highly recommended.	2001-12-10
1739325:US	49693975	R1ZB3SWCMCKV37	037379021X	957383117	Erotic Invitation (Midnight Fantasies)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fabulous! Very highly recommended	Only a year away from her goal, Mallory Sinclair is the last woman to remain line for partnership in her male dominated firm. A good old boys network runs the firm, and she has not yet entirely earned their trust; perhaps a woman never can. But she has earned a reputation for hard work and dedication. Further, Mallory's fierce control of her attraction to Jack Latham sets her apart from the other women in the office, although the no-office romance policy doesn't stop her from fantasizing. Now, as the only female associate in the firm, she is assigned to a very important divorce case to aid Jack. They will be spending an indefinite amount of time as the guests of their firm's biggest client while he decides if he's going of hire them to hand his divorce. Mallory vows to focus on the work at hand as she and Jack head to resort for an informal 'get-to-know-you' session with their eccentric client.<br />Jack, affectionately known as the Terminator and the firm's best-looking partner, is so named for the end he puts to marriages. According to office gossip, he does not believe in the institution of marriage or the idea of commitment. He certainly does not suspect that sexy lingerie that lurks beneath Mallory's power suits; consequently, he grossly misjudging her seductive qualities. So when he announces to Mallory that the firm's biggest client is sending them to a resort of the coast of Long Island, he underestimates the damage Mallory can do to his libido. One look in her eyes leaves him stunned. One foolish comment, and destiny is set into motion. Now they are courting the firm's biggest client in a divorce action that requires that they play hardball. Soon Jack finds that he would much rather be doing other things with Mallory, despite the rules of the office.<br />Jack longs to get beyond the frigid mask Mallory displays to see the woman beneath. He doesn't understand the conflicting emotions she inspires in him, and in his desperation to elicit a response, blurts his thoughts aloud. Mallory can't help wondering how she could be cold and frigid, as Jack accuses, if her taste runs to satin and silk. Perhaps he doesn't like the cold woman she created to survive in a man's world. But now they are away from the office, and ethics be damned. If he wants to see what lurks beneath the veneer of her exterior, then she has enough pride to show him. With all sorts of tantalizing, intriguing possibilities coursing through her imagination, Mallory begins her seduction. But perhaps the strongest lesson for both Mallory and Jack will not be in seduction, but realizing that an erotic invitation isn't enough without fulfillment.<br />Wow! Once again Carly Phillips creates an imaginative romp that really pumps the libido in EROTIC INVITATION. The tantalizing and intriguing plot delights the senses with its erotic overtones and subtle depths. In Phillips hands, mystery becomes a potent aphrodisiac, and seduction an art form. Her style is arousing, sultry. And the characters are sexy and believably distracted in their willingness to see the seduction through and deal with the consequences later. Not necessarily the most well thought out decision, but certainly the most human. Bold, sensual and daring, EROTIC INVITATION comes very highly recommended.	2001-12-10
1740946:US	49693975	R2EXU7IXXR5Q1B	1930586515	328772238	Faith, Love, and Overcoming: My Battle With Addiction	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A must read - Very highly recommended	Dr. Dale is an osteopathic physician and assistant professor of family medicine at the Ohio University College of Osteopathic Medicine. He is the father of four daughters and the husband of a loving woman. He is also an addict and alcoholic. This is his story.<br />Through a childhood bound by extreme poverty and laced with abuse through his college years, Dr. Dale explores the events and the reactions that led to his decision to turn to chemicals. He doesn't hide behind his dysfunctional family, but he does explore his relationships with family members and friends. Obsession and compulsion, ego and self-destruction each take a turn in the development of his disease. <br />From living on the streets to living out of a van, Dr. Dale's odyssey culminates in medical school. He takes seven years to complete what most medical students do in four, while struggling to fulfill his responsibilities to a wife and children. Yet rather than gaining the success his graduation should have given him, Dr. Dale squares off with his addiction. Scripts, sample drugs from the cabinet, happenstance and coincidence nurtured his disease. As denial gives way to desperation, he finally seeks the treatment he needs. <br />If you've ever attended an open meeting for AA, you might have heard a speaker share \\"how it was, what happened, what it's like now.\\" That's exactly what Dr. Dale presents in FAITH, LOVE AND OVERCOMING MY BATTLE WITH ADDICTION. Dr. Dale's words leap off the page with a self-honesty that can't help but touch the reader's heart. Having attending many twelve-step meetings, I felt as if I had stepped back into one while reading Dr. Dale's story. While his tale is far from unique, it is a story many addicts and alcoholics will identify with. Very highly recommended.	2001-12-08
1740962:US	49693975	RTZ5635XQHBAN	0373710267	451382680	Charlotte Moore	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A marvelous conundrum -- Very highly recommended	Zoey Phillips, Charlotte Moore, and Lydia Lane met just after high school while working at a wilderness resort in the Rocky Mountains. Ten years later at the reunion of the Jasper Park Lodger summer staff, someone speculates what fun it might be to look up the boy that led to their first heartbreak. Perhaps he's balding, paunchy, and boring. Then at the next year's reunion, they'd all report their results. Six months after their discussion, Charlotte gains her unexpected opportunity to find out what happened to Liam Connery, the boy she had a crush on in fifth grade. <br />Charlotte's sister Laurel offers to set her up with the opportunity to meet Liam again. Laurel supposedly made arrangements to breed her show Labrador retriever Maggie with one of Liam's dogs. While surprised to learn Liam gave up his dreams of flying to become a breeder, Charlotte happily agrees to drop Maggie off for breeding since she will be working nearby anyway. Charlotte has her own business as a decorative arts supplier, and had landed the opportunity to carry out a special estate appraisal on Prince Edward Island. The job should take three or four weeks, which should give enough time for Maggie's breeding. Unfortunately, Laurel neglects to mention that Liam had second thoughts about breeding one of his gun dogs with a show dog.<br />From the moment he first glimpses Charlotte, Liam doggedly holds himself in careful control. With a haunting dark secret, he doesn't want involvement with a woman. His life is limited to running his breeding and kennel service, and taking care of his marvelous aging mother. But his mother Ada has her own ideas about how things should be, offering to care for Maggie while Charlotte works. One thing leads to another, and soon Ada persuades her son to offer a room to Charlotte. Their house had been set up as bed and breakfast, so they obviously have the room and Ada can use the company. Even as the enigmatic Liam maintains his careful distance, Charlotte can't help regretting that the cheerful boy she knew years ago became such a taciturn man. Yet there's something incredibly attractive about him when he forgets his careful control long enough to smile. <br />Author Judith Bowen creates a delightful conundrum in CHARLOTTE MOORE. Liam falls in love while still struggling with the past. Granted, there are extreme circumstances that certainly justify his decision. However, because he has not told Charlotte the truth of the past, Liam's omission becomes not an ethical issue, but one of honesty. Bowen uses this plot to great effect, leaving the reader to contemplate Liam's dark secrets and question his motives before finally resolving the explanation. Contrasting the dark secrets of the past are several litters of puppies, a  marvelous old house full of treasure, and terrific cast of characters. A novel of surprising depth and marvelous characterizations, CHARLOTTE MOORE comes very highly recommended.	2001-12-08
1740967:US	49693975	R37YFMB3T4ZU1F	0553219200	928380834	Pockets Full of Joy	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very highly recommended	Dr. Brent Bradshaw creates a whirlwind arriving at Elaina McIvor's home with a baby. In the two weeks Elaina's lived there, her next door neighbor's two sons have disturbed her illustrations for a new children's book unceasingly. This new disturbance is quite disconcerting as he informs her that he's from Mercy Hospital, where his patient Margo Lawrence lies terribly ill. Margo had inexplicably requested that Elaina care for her eleven-month old daughter Betsy. Since Elaina's never met Margo and Betsy, the news stuns her. In fact, the only thing that can match her response to becoming an unexpected mother for an unspecified amount of time, is her profound reaction to Dr. Bradshaw who prefers to be called Brad. <br />Elaina hasn't a clue how to care for a small child. Potted plants, bath water and food become major challenges as she struggles with the beautiful baby. Brad, on the other hand, is marvelous with the child, and soon pitches in with his assistance. He's deeply affected by the remarkable children's book artist, and finds her amazingly supportive when he bends her ears regarding the tragedies that cross his path daily in the emergency room. From the beginning he warns her that he's divorced, and Elaina deserves more than he can give. Despite his warning, he also teaches her a valuable lesson. His mother always told him to keep his hands out of his pockets, because that's where you keep joy. If you keep your hands in your pockets, you block joy.<br />Once again author Judy Gill presents a touching romance in POCKETS FULL OF JOY. A pocket full of joy becomes a marvelous metaphor for getting out of the way so we can receive and enjoying life's gifts. Even temporary gifts are to be treasured as much as the permanent as this heroine learns the parenting lesson of letting go. Originally published as part of the Loveswept Line, and now reissued as an eBook from AweStruck, HENNESSEY'S HEAVEN would have been a regretful loss if relegated to oblivion rather republished. A lively, light romance that brings a tear to the eye, POCKETS FULL OF JOY comes very highly recommended.	2001-12-08
1741031:US	49693975	R3DE3X560LCELT	037319563X	744299917	Going To The Castle (Silhouette Romance)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Poignant and endearing -- Highly recommended	Antony is the oldest San Riminian crown prince ever not to have married and produced heirs. With King Edurado's failing health adding pressure, Antony must either choose quickly or his father will do it for him. He doesn't, however, expect to find the woman of his dreams in an area plagued by overcrowding and poor sanitation. Despite her scruffy appearance, Antony easily imagines Jennifer Allen in a blue ball gown in his palace. He finds her relaxed attitude refreshing, and her genuine affection for his people captivating. Never mind her lack of royal blood; he finds himself incredibly attracted to this scruffy American who encourages him to follow his heart, and make his own choices rather than accepting the dictates of others.<br />Jennifer follows in her parent's footstep, journeying into war torn lands to provide emergency relief for innocent civilians. When some of the refugees hear of Prince Antony's planned visit, she discounts the rumors since she's received no official notification. Consequently, she's digging a latrine when she learns the reputed Playboy Prince will arrive in a few hours. She assumes he's like most politicians who make relief workers feel as though he really cares about their work, but in reality only cares as much as his royal position requires. His concern over the lack of media attention only affirms her assumptions. Yet she can't help being impressed as he takes a seemingly genuine interest in one of the children in the refugee camp. <br />Nicole Burnham's debut novel GOING TO THE CASTLE provides a delightful storyline especially appreciated in light of recent world events. The wretched conditions described could easily be torn from a news headline, making the background both believable and powerful. Indeed, this Cinderella story becomes effectively convincing in this talented storyteller's hands, with strong characterizations and careful attention to detail. Moreover, the striking contrast between Nicole and Antony's background becomes a pivotal element that unexpectedly draws them together. Poignant and endearing, GOING TO THE CASTLE comes highly recommended.	2001-12-08
1741123:US	49693975	R214IZ5BCLN7TS	0553219464	980678313	HENNESSEY'S HEAVEN (Loveswept)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Heavenly -- Highly recommended	Hennessey thought he'd caught a glimpse of heaven the first time he saw the woman traipsing across land where he's the caretaker. With the drive blocked, she boldly removed her shoes and pantyhose to walk barefoot across the lawn and through the wild flowers, presenting a delectable view to her hidden audience. While he doesn't expect a spitfire when he meets her, Hennessey finds himself irresistibly drawn to the woman who can fix cars, carve lifelike wild life, and mows right through his sister's wildflowers. Heaven certainly isn't boring, as Venny so beautifully proves.<br />Hennessey leaves Heaven McLure stunned when she meets him. She came to family's island retreat to heal from the dissolution of her goals and dreams after the loss of her company and the destruction of her marriage. A woman of principle, Venny didn't pay for hex ex-husband's defense to heal her heart, but because it was right. But she doesn't want him back, has never wanted him back, and refuses to see him or speak to him now that he's finally out of jail. The last thing she needs to be confronted by a sexy man who looks too much like her ex-husband and leaves her shaking with desire.<br />HENNESSEY'S HEAVEN is one of those sweet treats that just, well...heavenly. These well rounded, if imperfect, characters feel as if they stepped right out of real life with their sass and warmth. Amusing, with just enough tension to keep the plot flowing smoothly, HENNESSEY'S HEAVEN is a delightful read. Indeed, author Judy proves the best possibilities of epublishing. Originally published as part of the Loveswept Line, and now reissued as an eBook from AweStruck, HENNESSEY'S HEAVEN would have been a sad loss if relegated to oblivion rather republished. Highly recommended.	2001-12-08
1741167:US	49693975	R1UXAXTX7O66I0	0373790236	320910176	Live A Little!	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Accountant Cynthia Baxter would like to learn to live a little. Her six year engagement to a doctor more concerned with patients than his personal relationships drives her to desperate measures. She purchases the September issue of Raunch Magazine, which categorizes its fantasies into Boudoir Beginners, Intimate Intermediates, and Erotically Advanced. She'd even highlighted her favorite fantasies. But Walter leaves her naked and handcuffed to the bed while he leaves to deliver a baby. Hours later, a neighbor finally comes to the rescue. But meeting FBI agent Jake Wheeler under such conditions does not fulfill her fantasy.<br />At first, Jake Wheeler assumes Cynthia's prone position resulted from a working girl's day gone bad. Her trash looks juxtapose an oddly innocent expression in her eyes, driving his libido over the edge, even if he has sworn off wild women with revolving bedroom doors. However, when he realizes that Cynthia's an accountant, Jake convinces her to volunteer to help him crack a drug smuggling operation by accepting a new job with his quarry. Cynthia leaps at the opportunity for change and excitement. She transforms herself into Cyn the Bold and prepares to plunge into the world of black ops, spies and danger. Even as Jake suspects that the sophisticated sex-pot routine is fake, it's too late to withdraw from a very dangerous situation-both undercover and under the covers. <br />Now this is what a Blaze should be! Sexy, daring, and bold with a dash of levity, LIVE A LITTLE! lives up to my highest expectations. The heroine doesn't waste time protesting her innocence, the hero doesn't struggle over needless issues, and the plot never slows. Indeed, the dangerous plot echoes the dangerous eroticism of a handcuff fantasy, resulting in a terrific read. Pleasing, tempting and erotic, LIVE A LITTLE! comes very highly recommended.	2001-12-08
1741176:US	49693975	R2WLM5J8QTQ1HD	0373790244	21495275	Playing With Fire (Sexy City Nights)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	The game is teasingly seductive -- the beckoning come hither looks, the smoldering passions luring them. The game becomes a fevered seduction, as wild fantasy plays out myriad possibilities, a sensual delight. The game is the savage hunter in pursuit of the woman who longs to be caught in a cataclysmic joining, without defense, winner take all. But the question remains as to what happens when the fantasy isn't enough, and he longs for the woman to surrender not just her body, but also her heart.<br />Daniel Savage's life had become a cliché with long hours and an administrative assistant that knows him better than he knows himself. He's drawn irresistibly to the woman's teasing seduction, thriving on the thrill of the hunt, and delighting in her potent allure. When they leave the party to retreat to the quasi intimacy of a drink at another restaurant, the heat between them becomes searing. Especially when Daniel wants to know what's she wearing beneath the daring dress that is only a dropped thread away from public indecency. When she leaves him with her golden panties in hand as she departs the restaurant, he's hooked, forever. Now he's got to find the woman who plays the game complete with false identity and sensual allure.<br />Lara Gladstone fled the brittle city, with a lifestyle of struggling by day and partying by night, to the quiet of the Adirondack Mountains where she recreates the beauty of nature in stained glass. A restaurant opening where her work is displayed lures her from her quiet retreat, and in a borrowed dress as dangerous as sin, Lara catches Daniel's eye. She knew immediately that he was uniquely her match. His distinctive aura lures her, creating a chemistry she wants to play out. The night becomes like a dream sequence, and she is caught up in this otherworldly feel that allows her to seek reckless adventure. She wants to live her fantasies, to be overwhelmed by passion. <br />Carrie Alexander's PLAYING WITH FIRE provides a searing look atlove, blending extreme sensuality with the struggles of maturity. Lara's no frightened virgin; she's a provocative, powerful woman unafraid of her sexuality, but terrified of a permanent commitment that might weaken her. At thirty, Lara's grown beyond the limits of youth that loves late nights and a party atmosphere. She needs something more; something offered in the sexual fantasies and emotional implications of a relationship with Daniel. But as much as Lara desires the fantasy, she fears the reality. A relationship with a man like Daniel can't be relegated to the bedroom and kept a secret. Their relationship must be more than just sexual games, wild nights and excitement. <br />Alexander captures the struggles of risk that come to all of us past our twenties as we learn to cope with the changes maturity brings. These are memorable characters, from the best friend with her brightly colored kitchen and delightful daughter, to the fiercely independent aunt. The gamut of possible roles for a woman are presented within the secondary characters, from fierce independence and remaining single, to the traditional sister's marriage and two children, to her best friend's unconventional lifestyle and single mom status. Alexander's story honors each character's choices, while pushing her heroine into pursuing the path that is uniquely her own. Very highly recommended.	2001-12-08
1741216:US	49693975	R1BKUDJCSK5VS6	0373259530	876508119	Nights Before Christmas (Heat)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Illicit pleasure -- Very highly recommended	Suzanne Tabot falls into one of the oldest mistakes of all when she believes the bad boy stories that have garnered a sexy reputation for maintenance man Greg Stone. Rumor has it that Greg specializes in healing the broken hearts of many of the women in the building. Suzanne assumes, from friend's comments, that his sexual process provides the necessary healing balm. Indeed, just the mention of Greg gives Suzanne a jolt of forbidden pleasure. She tries to convince herself that Greg's safe because he's temporary, thereby filling a specific need before moving on. Her best friend tells she needs a rebound man: someone to spend wild, sexy nights with that she'd never dream of making permanent. The truth is that she wants a whole lot more than temporary with him. <br />Greg's been watching Suzanne the entire eighteen months she's occupied her apartment, and was secretly pleased when her unappreciative boyfriend disappeared. He's put himself in a quite a quandary regarding women. He refuses to go back to college for the degree everyone thinks he needs to live up to his potential. He loves working as a maintenance man; work that leaves him imagination free to roam the books he's read the night before. He loves the opportunity to talk to women with breaking hearts; usually a bit of counseling and encouragement is all they need. Too bad that most of the blue-collar girls of his acquaintance just don't have a lot to say after sex. The classy, intellectual women of his apartment building would never settle for a man with less of a paycheck than they earn. And they certainly wouldn't appreciate his toolbox in place of a business suit. But he would certainly give Suzanne a chance, if she wanted it.<br />Gossip and innuendo provide illicit pleasure for both men and women, as Vicki Lewis Thompson so astutely observes in THE NIGHTS BEFORE CHRISTMAS. While it's traditionally been the woman who's been on the receiving end of blow to the reputation, Thompson deftly turns the tables and then provides a delightful outcome. Although this heroine does fall into the trap of believing her friends, she does not fall into the trap of snobbery also observed by many women of her acquaintance. Greg's safe, they assume, because he's a maintenance man and therefore not on their social and economic level. And while his paycheck may not match their paycheck, his zest for life and love of books clearly indicates his intellectual prowess. Of course our heroine wins the guy; she's the only one in the building willing to look beyond his reputation and appearance to the man beneath. Best of all, Greg does not compromise his identity to get the girl. Very highly recommended.	2001-12-08
1741597:US	49693975	R1WZVKL1BVCQTL	0373259557	548018958	Mighty Quinns: Brendan (The Mighty Quinns)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wild and unpredictable -- Highly recommended	As a child Brendan, in a time when there wasn't always enough to eat, dreamed of having enough money to travel the world. He always hated to fight, preferring the power of words to the power of a fist. Sometimes life throws a punch, however, that has to be returned; like the night he intervenes in a fight to assist a pretty waitress. Something about the pretty blond doesn't fit the bar; maybe she moves with to much grace, maybe she is just too classy. Whatever that quality is, others notice too and like to manhandle her. Brendan's brothers had made the mistake of saving damsels in distress and wound up married - a fate Brendan prefers to avoid. But ten minutes after he meets her, before he even knows his name, he wants to kiss her.<br />At twenty-six, Amelia Aldrich Sloane ran away from home a week before her wedding. Tired of the strictures placed upon her by her family and their position in society, Amy has spent the last six months avoiding private detectives and earning her own way. Too bad the guy from the bar got her fired and cost her a place to live. When he appears in the late night fog, she accepts a bunk on his ship for the night. Soon she parlays it into a job as an assistant as Brendan completes his latest book. Born for adventure, Amy would enjoy an affair with Brendan -- which would be the greatest adventure of all. But the question remains as to what will she do if an affair just not enough. <br />The third Quinn falls to the powers of love in THE MIGHTY QUINNS: BRENDAN. While the heroine and hero come from radically different backgrounds, they share a love for adventure. Bold and wild, Amy is an impetuous and bold heroine. While she's a bit immature at times with her silly blame game, she does use it to good effect. She also throws a mean punch, proving her ability to protect herself in the world she's chosen to hide. The harder Brendan protests falling in love, the harder he seems to fall. A wild and unpredictable pleasure, THE MIGHTY QUINNS: BRENDAN comes highly recommended.	2001-12-07
1742177:US	49693975	RZAV60WMY52LD	0345365941	189337593	Last Flight of the Arrow	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very highly recommended	In 1940, Hitler had conquered continental Europe with little resistance, and the predictions were that Britain would be next. Under the command of Squadron Leader Stanley Croft, pilot Officer Bogdan Kapolski leads the Red Section across the skies of England. He becomes an Ace flier when he takes down his fifth plane. Indeed, a wizard in the air, Kapolski becomes one of the best fighter pilots in the Royal Canadian Air Force. He brings those skills to the table again in the Korean War, and then during the Cold War when his government calls him to action to pilot the last flight of the Arrow. <br />In 1945 in the Mariana Islands, a guest reporter Ben Spencer, Canadian war correspondent for the Vancouver Daily News, accompanies a mission to drop bombs on Tokyo. Hits to the plane's port wing and leaking fuel force the crew and reporter to bail out and send a distress call for air-sea rescue. The crew and reporter float in the water and wait for a sub to find them. Spencer's daring to accompany dangerous missions creates a solid reputation for him, later giving him free reign, in his column printed in the Toronto Tribune, to boldly attack policies and politicians that don't, in his view, fulfill Canada's best interests, including the end of the Arrow program. His own investigations in the Arrow will fuel controversy and help bring about the public end of the aircraft.<br />With the advent of the missile age, heralded by the Russian Sputnik, manned interceptors become obsolete. On February 20, 1959 the Canadian prime minister announces to the House of Commons the end of the CF-105 Avro Arrow supersonic fighter-interceptor program. Three hundred million dollars had already been invested in an aircraft, and its draining the economy. Further, Russia claims that the Arrow is a threat to world peace, and promises to disband her own buildup of planes in return for the end of the Arrow project. They do not fulfill their promise. Meanwhile, Canadian and American intelligence learns of their plans, and the Canadians pretend to end the Arrow program, staging an end to the Arrow program while they actually move bases to the far north. As politics, the media, and espionage converge, it will be up to Kapolski to pilot the mission that prevents the advent of World War III. <br />Espionage and intrigue abound in Daniel Wyatt's THE LAST FLIGHT OF THE ARROW. This is a fictional tale based on the myth that some of the Arrows escaped destruction and were used to preserve the free world. Originally published by Random House, where it sold 20,000 copies, the novel has been revised to include more intrigue. Indeed, the cloak and dagger games of the CIA, Canadians and Russians lend the novel amazing conviction. As international tension builds, Wyatt's plot moves at a fast clip, skillfully maintaining the pace and the reader's attention. Credible characterizations bring the plot to life, interwoven with the technical jargon and avionic facts that keep the novel firmly grounded in history. Yet the avionic facts never bog the narrative, keeping the tale fresh even for those who are not necessarily aviation buffs. Very highly recommended.	2001-12-07
1742341:US	49693975	R2I1NVYKDH3FUO	1929072767	265623435	Degrees of Murder	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very highly recommended	Police Chief Joe Weiss of the Lackenby police department hires Dr. Matthew Shea as an investigative consultant for a dollar a day plus expenses. Shea teaches a popular class at the local university on \\"Socio-Emotional Origins of Crime\\". Weiss once served on the New York City Police Department. Shea brings extensive investigative work and a degree in behavior sciences. Together they form an unbeatable team. <br />Shea tells his students that all crimes have a pattern, if only you closely enough. But Weiss can't find the pattern in a recent rash of murders; three people have died in two weeks, and Weiss hopes a fresh pair of eyes will help. Weiss assigns the nitty-gritty work to his department, thus freeing himself and Shea to examine the bigger picture.<br />The victims of the crimes have nothing in common. Different ethnic groups, male and female, economics and method of death separate them. Soon Shea realizes that the killer is staging the murders, making a victim look like she fought back, for example, when she was actually too drugged to do so. Then several of Shea's students unexpectedly complicate the investigation when they try to use techniques taught in the classroom on the streets.<br />An extraordinarily well constructed mystery, DEGREES OF MURDER will hold the reader's attention riveted as plenty of misdirection and suspects fill the tale with suspense. The setting of a university for the class and many of the cast of characters lends the tale a touch of authenticity, without pushing the envelope of possibility. Moreover, Murphy's background in military experience in security and police work lends the narrative voice a complexity and depth that marks it as a classic. DEGREES OF MURDER is going on my keeper shelf. Very highly recommended.	2001-12-07
1743251:US	49693975	R1TQMFKZN4XGD7	0373259573	834147020	Under The Covers (Heat)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Operation: Honeymoon -- Highly recommended	Detective Blake Hammond must cancel his two week vacation in Hawaii to accept an under cover assignment, leaving him feeling outraged. Normally a cool, smooth, together kind of guy, Blake feels frustrated and much in need of some R &amp; R. Tired, overworked, frustrated cops are make mistakes that can be dangerous and deadly. Now he's assigned to assist DEA Ronnie Carmichael who's just the woman to keep his world off kilter and his mind off business. A dangerous combination when their lives depend upon remaining under cover. <br />Ronnie plans this to be her last assignment, looking forward to escaping the world of designer drugs and false identities. The department's strict fraternization policy forbids emotional involvement with Blake; however, their cover as honeymooners require that they act like a couple in love. Two weeks at Seaport Manor posing as newlyweds will give department non-fraternization rules quite a workout. Living in close, romantic quarters will cause the lines between pretense and reality to merge rather quickly when sexual magnetism keeps drawing them together.<br />As Blake and Ronnie fight mistakes of the past that overshadow the present, they find themselves irresistibly drawn together. The sensual resort with its romantic overtones provides the perfect background to this wickedly delicious read. Once again author Jamie Denton displays her sensually masterful storytelling skills. The novel reads like one, long, sexy tease of emotions and erotic possibilities, making the necessity of remaining under the covers absolutely delightful. While the ending feels a bit abrupt, the powerful characterizations and naughty sexual play will still leave the reader satisfied. Highly recommended.	2001-12-06
1743656:US	49693975	R2QXN4MFUR42F9	0373244312	464107821	Baby Be Mine (A Ranching Family) (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Very highly recommended	Clair Fletcher takes her first vacation in eight years to go to Elk Creek, Wyoming and make amends to the past. While she was busy becoming Chicago's most recognized account executive, her younger sister ran away from home. Kristen hadn't told Clair that she was pregnant when she insisted on dropping out of high school during her senior year. Hitchhiking across the continent had taught her about the dangers on her own, and the fact she couldn't care for herself, never mind a child. So Kristen agreed to a private adoption to Bill and Kim Miller, who would have adopted her as well, if she had let them. They helped her find college scholarships and make a good start after the baby was born. In their wills, they specified if something ever happened to them, Kristen be given a second chance at raising her son.<br />An icy patch of ice took the Miller's lives, leaving behind two-year-old Willy. When the lawyer attempted to fulfill their last request regarding their son, he learned Kristen had perished in a fire. Assuming that she was still estranged from her family, he notified the family of Kristen's death. Clair was shocked to learn that she had nephew. While her father was uninterested, Clair insisted on gaining custody of the child. But when she arrives in Elk Creek, Willy's guardian disarms her. Jace Brumley is a natural parent, easily handling the stubborn two-year-old whether it is in a doctor's office or working the ranch. He makes pizza from scratch, using his own home canned tomatoes. He had become daddy by default, since he was like a brother to Bill and made a solemn vow to raise the child in his place, should the worse happen. And it won't give the child up. Besides, there are far more pleasant things he would like to do with Clair than fight a custody battle.<br />As custody battles go, BABY BE MINE provides a rather light treatment, handling the emotions without the legal battle. Author Victoria Pade provides rather interesting and unexpected characterizations. Clair is not a natural mother and is clueless as to how to bond with her nephew. Her attitude that blood should supersede a currently stable home is gently, but effectively challenged as she learns to cope with her guilt about the past. Jace is a marvelous father who disregards his lawyer's advice because, while it might legally in the child's best interest, it is not in the child's moral best interest. His integrity and parenting skills make him an irresistible hero. Further, at no time does this stubborn two-year-old easily capitulate to the new strange woman in his life. Instead, he behaves just like, well, a two-year-old. Very highly recommended.	2001-12-06
1744292:US	49693975	RD5JX1JE2B3OC	0821770357	438239480	Trust To Chance (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Like the phoenix rising - Very highly recommended	Rebecca Marston's father disowns her when she announces her plan to become a nurse. Unfortunately, Rebecca's empathic abilities cause her to identify too closely with her patients, making the horrors of their wounds as real to her as if the wounds were on her own body. Just before she plans to resign, Rebecca attends a birthday party in her own honor away from camp with her cousin and friends. Rebecca is happy to escape the horrors of the operation theatre, until the day turns deadly when southern born raiders kill her cousin and kidnap her. Now she must put all her skills to the test if she and her fellow prisoners are to survive.<br />That night, the kidnapers hear the voices of desperate men coming from the Mississippi River. Jacob Fuller and his companions have spent the previous three years in the notorious Andersonville prison in Georgia. He and his fellow Union soldiers are finally going home when the riverboat explodes in the dark of night. Jacob clings to a floating stage plank as others fall victim to the frigid water, their wounds, and shock. At last the kidnappers pull him and four others from the frigid water.<br />Rebecca's kidnappers are an effective guerrilla force under the command of Colonel Lewis Hall. Most southern raiders would have hung the lot of them for their Union ties after raping the women. But Hall has other plans. Ordinarily his men disrupt Union supply lines, attack occupied towns, and hang as many Northern sympathizers as they can. When he learns Rebecca's identity, her virtue remains intact so that the Colonel can ransom her to her father. Unfortunately, the plan fails, and Rebecca's life becomes forfeit.<br />Gwyneth Atlee masterfully captures the painful atmosphere of the waning days of the Civil War in TRUST TO CHANCE, the sequel to AGAINST THE ODDS. Like the phoenix rising from ashes, so does love blossom out of the destructive forces of war when extreme circumstance brings the daughter of a wealthy Philadelphian businessman anda farrier from Indiana together. With a plot that graphically exhibits the worst and best of the human spirit, Atlee draws her characters into the most challenging of situations. Indeed, Rebecca's saucy grit and determination, balanced by Jacob's reflective nature, result in fierce, powerful tale of love.	2001-12-06
1744316:US	49693975	R3HH3RR9ECC8SC	0373244304	499495691	The Sheik and the Runaway Princess (Desert Rogues, No. 4)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Great fun! Very highly recommended	When he discovers the woman wandering alone in the desert following a sand storm, Prince Kardal Khan recognizes her immediately as Sabrina Johnson - otherwise known as Princess Sabra, King Hassan of Bahania's only daughter. She's everything he expected: willful, difficult, and spoiled. She's also his fiancée, as marriage has been arranged to promote an alliance between their people. Trapped between tradition and progress, Kardal struggles with modernity while still respecting his people's ancient ways. His assumes that his proposed wife neither respects the ancient ways, nor lives the exemplary western life he would prefer. Unfortunately, he's bound to her just the same. But she obviously doesn't know who he is, and Kardal prefers not to enlighten her right away.<br />Sabrina had been certain she could find the City of Thieves when she left the palace alone. Raised in California with her mother, she'd spent summers in Bahania, supposedly to learn the ways of his people. But her father ignored her, as did her brothers when they weren't teasing her unmercifully. Sabrina can't help wondering if the desert troll she's supposed to marry wouldn't be preferable to being tied and blindfolded by this desert kidnapper. She's stunned to learn their destination is the legendary City of Thieves. Shocked by the city's water supply and impressive castle, she's even more startled to learn that her captor is none other than Kardal, the Prince of Thieves. Opulence surrounds her, and if Kardal has it way, decadence as well. After all, her antics in California are well documented, and it's never occurred to him that she truly might be an innocent. <br />Susan Mallery creates fabulous fantasy material in THE SHEIK AND THE RUNAWAY PRINCESS. The characterizations are at once outlandish and believable. The fiery heroine finds the prince of her dreams, despite slave bracelets and an unearned poor reputation. The sexy hero's path to believing in love proves to be impetuous, challenging andabsolutely delightful as he goes from finding Sabrina lacking, to wanting her with all his heart. Indeed, Kardal plans to &quot;tame&quot; the princess; he grows to appreciate her instead. With an interesting plot and fabulous characterizations, THE SHEIK AND THE RUNAWAY PRINCESS is a keeper. Very highly recommended.	2001-12-06
1744531:US	49693975	RLCHOHT6L6SCU	1590889975	772580677	The House in the Steeple	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Highly recommended	The day she left him, Bedie Breckenridge's husband committed suicide. No one had believed Doug abused Bedie because he was a cop. After years of emergency rooms, broken bones and bruising, Bedie's relief was incredible. During the subsequent three years, Bedie has not had a date or even a conversation with a man. Since renting an old Victorian house, she has begun hearing Doug's voice, and once again bears his bruises on her body. Bedie's not sure if a ghost stalks her or if she is psychotic. But she does believe that the reappearance of her deceased husband has been triggered by her decision to take in a foster child. <br />During her five years of foster, eleven-year-old June has developed quite a reputation for being difficult. She caused more than seven thousand dollars worth of damage to the Parker's living room and kitchen before they gave up. The Morellis family held out longer than anyone before resigning care. The Forsythes refuse to discuss their reason for her return, only pointing her butchered hair and that of their biological children. After yet another foster parent rejected her after discovering her psychic gifts, June has kept her abilities carefully concealed.Incredible temper tantrums, the use of profanity and absolute defiance keep June safely away from people who might hurt or disappoint her. <br />The ugliness of her previous foster homes made bearing them quite difficult for June. So the charm of the &quot;olden&quot; Victorian home immediately entrances June, making her want to make it her home, whatever it takes. A gifted psychic, she is very sensitive to the energies surrounding her. June convinces her new foster mother to let have the third floor that has been previously closed off. Although she chokes badly on the landing between floors, June isn't deterred. After several weeks of hard work, painting, sanding, and wallpapering, her new room is at last ready. Then a malevolent entity appears, terrifying her. But June won't give up her newhome, defying a spirit who can cause physical home.<br />Ghosts and psychic abilities give Jane Hollingsworth's THE HOUSE IN THE STEEPLE a powerful paranormal aspect. Secrets from years past combine with painful emotional issues to force action and healing. The fascinating plot twists and marvelous characterizations keep the plot moving quickly, although the ending is a bit disappointing. Nevertheless, this is an eerie tale that will hold the reader's attention riveted. THE HOUSE IN THE STEEPLE comes highly recommended.	2001-12-05
1744762:US	49693975	R24YP0LQGCW7F9	0373168985	454596071	Cheyenne'S Lady (Bachelors Of Shotgun Ridge)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Shotgun Ridge's matchmakers strike in Mindy Neff's CHEYENNE'S LADY. The four geezers meddle and interfere in the love lives the town bachelors in an effort to prevent the small town from dying out. Llyod, Henry, Vern and Ozzie might be unlike matchmakers, but they are successful. Their latest attempt to bring Sheriff Cheyenne Bodine and surrogate mother-to-be Emily is very promising. <br />Ozzie switches addresses, resulting in Emily sleeping in Cheyenne's bed when he arrives home. He remembers her reputation for trouble before her family moved away her senior year. He'd always been drawn to her spirit, not to mention her perchance for creating scandal. Now a very pregnant Emily lies in his bed, and his fantasies are slipping into overdrive. He's stunned to learn that Emily carries his brother's children. For the sake of the twins, he insists that Emily marry him. They are already bound by their love for the children, but events may conspire to make their binding even deeper.<br />When Emily agreed to be the surrogate mother for her sister's babies, her life changed profoundly. In the beginning the pregnancy was wonderful as she shared each step with Debbie and Jimmy. But a fateful car accident has deprived the twins of their rightful parents, and Emily faces parenthood alone. Since Jimmy was Cheyenne's brother, she came to him hoping for help in the weeks ahead. As huge and uncomfortable as she is, he still makes her feel desirable. While she didn't expect marriage, she agrees. She recognizes an intangible connection that binds them as soul mates. <br />The geezers' efforts at matchmaking and baby holding can't help but charm readers in CHEYENNE'S LADY. Indeed, Neff creates a convincing blend of romance, pregnancy and newborns, without glossing the inconvenience of wet shirts when milk leaks, late night feeds and exhaustion. While Emily denies sainthood and freely admits her fears and insecurities, Cheyenne is humbled by the sacrifices Emily makes with this pregnancy. His own honor and integrity, not to mention natural ability with children, sparkle as well. These are imperfect and loving characterizations that remain with readers long after the last page is turned. Indeed, a character driven romance that explores the joy and pain of birth and death, CHEYENNE'S LADY belongs on the keeper shelf. Very highly recommended.	2001-12-05
1744936:US	49693975	R2XGQFJ5SKK9ZH	0373271867	746337288	That Kind Of Girl (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Marvelous characters -- Highly recommended	Becca Danvers worked hard to transform both her looks and her inner self. After too many years of shapeless dresses and staring at her shoes, Becca's learned to keep her chin up and nails manicured. But when the town's bad boy Colt Bonner returns to town, she feels too much like that child she tried to leave behind. Unfortunately, when she left behind the shapeless dresses, Becca also left behind her dreams, her stories, and her fantasies. When they were kids, it was the imaginative stories that kept Becca and Colt going in spite of the pain inflicted by their respective abusive parents. While Becca forgot those stories told long ago, Colt has never forgotten.<br />Colt's first line of defense is his anger. If he were honest, his anger is really directed at himself for spending too many years trying to overcome the legacy of the past. He heard of his father's death only minutes before getting on the back of a bull, and the subsequent accident threatens his ability to continue his career. Another bad fall like this one could put him in a wheelchair. He damns his father for dying before he could see Colt break his record. He couldn't return three months ago for his father's funeral, and now Colt plans to stay at his father's ramshackle house while he's still healing from the accident, and just long enough to spruce the house up so it will sell. <br />Until both Becca and Colt can reconcile the past, however, neither can have the future they each long for. Their struggle with inner demons, learning to be angry and to handle justifiable and necessary anger, gives THAT KIND OF GIRL a special pizzazz. While the plot is a bit slow getting started, the remarkable character growth in the second half of the novel rescues it from mundane and pushes it toward extraordinary. As the heroine wrestles with the past, gaining a fresh honest look at the mother she'd rather forget, the reader can't help but be caught up in her struggles. The mirror image, the hero's struggles with hisfather, reveals the incredible differences between the way men and women choose to remember and forget the past. Indeed, author Kim McKade's talent for characterizations makes THAT KIND OF GIRL a wonderful read. Highly recommended.	2001-12-05
1745759:US	49693975	RXAKXS85G0E3J	0373271816	916633946	By Honor Bound (The Lassiter Law) (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Highly recommended	Security specialist Micah Lassiter finds himself in an ethical quandary when wealthy businessman Alan Street hires him to protect his daughter, and Micah quickly finds his heart becoming involved. Allen owns one of the most successful software companies in the world, which now has made him the target of threats. The man sending threatening letters is obviously brilliant, unbalanced and dangerous. Concerned for his daughter, Alan wants someone to keep an eye on Prudence night and day to ensure her safety. But Micah must protect Prudence without her knowledge. She has struggled hard to establish her independence from her father and won't welcome his intrusion now, however well meaning.<br />Micah moves into the apartment across the hall from Prudence, using his proximity to arrange quiet dinners and intimate moments. By necessity, Prudence believes he's courting her, and is confused by his mixed signal when he kisses her on one day and then emotionally distances himself the next. Micah is equally confused by his reactions, knowing that emotional involvement can endanger her safety. Prudence becomes the cause of some real soul searching, as their relationship takes a path he didn't expect. As danger escalates, Micah finds not just her life in danger, but his heart. Further, she won't be tolerant when she finds out her father hired him. <br />Ruth Langan deftly combines danger and romance in BY HONOR BOUND. Langan has a gift for creating wonderful characters. The direct confrontation of the ethical issues provides striking characterizations with believable dilemmas. Her secondary characters likewise sparkle, from the Lassiter family to the meddlesome sisters that live in the same apartment building as Alan and Prudence. Unexpectedly delightful, BY HONOR BOUND comes highly recommended.	2001-12-05
1745790:US	49693975	RXTION8L9LE5A	1583456139	909122307	One Too Many Times	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Highly recommended	When the usual psychic can't make it to act as medium for the annual séance to summon the slain King Richard's spirit, Annie Spooner steps in. She's the longest standing member of the Richard III Society. A scholar, she's published several books about him. Rather than summoning a ghost, however, the séance has the unexpected result of the real Richard's arrival. <br />Actually, an amulet given by his brother brings him to the twenty-first century when his life is endangered. With no way back to his own time, Richard settles into exploring his new world, from peanuts at the market to borrowed designer jeans that don't fit. Soon the Grand Wizbar sends his brothers, Ned and George, followed later by Elizabeth as she pursues Ned in a quest to fulfill true love.<br />Richard soon learns of the filming of his story. Of course he steps in, first to correct history, but soon to rewrite it. He lands the part of himself, along with his brothers in appropriate roles. Combined with poltergeist activity, and women who shape each of three time traveling men's destinies, the result is a fabulous romp.<br />Past, present and future fuse in a hysterically inaccurate timeline that will keep readers in stitches in ONE TOO MANY TIMES. This revisionist history combines wizardry, windows 2000 and wondrous impossibility in a marvelous original manner. Characterizations are believable, implausible, and a touch ridiculous, and the plotting even more so. Yet the result is a mesh of the old with new, the impossible with the improbable and a profound overlay of humor. Move over Mel Gibson and Shakespeare for Diana Rubino's eclectic blend that will keep readers enthralled. Highly recommended.	2001-12-05
1747020:US	49693975	R307AZCF2RS86L	0373244320	630650870	Missing Heir (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Wonderful characterizations -- Recommended	Seven years ago Russ Simon preferred raising horses to following his father's dream of entering his law firm. So with law degree in hand, Russ parted ways with his father. Now he has an opportunity to heal the breach by doing a bit of investigating for his father, who is the close friend and lawyer for Joseph Haskell. Joe seeks his estranged daughter, and believes Marigold Crowley to be his granddaughter based on a photograph that reveals Mari's unusually colored hair - the same color as her deceased mother's. Joe shares his father's doubts, traveling to Nevada on the pretense of looking for a ranch for expanding his horse breeding service. Mari's genuine goodness leaves him feeling disarmed, not to mention guilty for his deception. <br />Bold, confident Mari always felt loved and needed by her aunt and uncle, easily accepting them as substitute parents. She knew little of her mother except she died in childbirth, accepting the story her aunt and uncle provided. When her uncle hears Joe's televised appeal, the story fits what he knows of Mari's mother, so he sends a letter and photo without telling his niece. Joe's response was to invite Mari to his home on MacKinac Island where he intends to perform DNA testing to confirm his suspicions. Unfortunately, Joe's heart condition leads to his being flown to New York City for emergency treatment just as she's flying to the island. She remains on the island awaiting his return, and welcomes the chance encounter that reunites her with her newfound friend Russ.<br />Jane Toombs weaves a magic spell of lilacs and love in THE MISSING HEIR. Rather than the typical identity crisis most women would endure under such circumstances, Mari handles the changes in her life with grace and ease. Certainly she questions and reevaluates her identity, but she doesn't exhibit the struggle that so often accompanies such a plot. And perhaps therein lies the weakness of the book. She's such a strong heroine that she's left little room for growth except in affairs of the heart. She cannot stand duplicity and has much to learn about the gray areas of life, where things are neither right nor wrong, they simply exist. On the other hand, Russ is a wonderfully romantic hero who struggles with pleasing his father while also pleasing his heart. Old wounds make him vulnerable and give him plenty of space to grow. While this plot offers little surprise, these are remarkably pleasing and delightful characterizations, making THE MISSING HEIR recommended.	2001-12-04
1747108:US	49693975	R444C9S9XEE6L	1551665816	347027769	Expose (Mira)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Glamour isn't always as wonderful as it seems	Reporter Sally Harrington works for her small, hometown newspaper after returning to Castleford, Connecticut two years ago to care for her ill mother. When an assignment leads her to a nearby ghost town, Sally unexpectedly assists a man in medical crisis. It turns out that his wife Verity Rhodes is the glamorous editor of Expectations who subsequently offers Sally an opportunity of a lifetime. She's assigned to write an expose on Cassidy Cochran, president of the DBS network in New York. Soon Sally finds her professional life and personal life sharply split between the glitzy world of New York and the mundane world Castleford, which has drastically taken a turn a turn toward its own excitement.<br />Crazy Pete Sabatino, with his conspiracy theories, has long been the butt of jokes around town, but this time the truth may exist within the miasma of speculation and confusion. A fascinating character, Pete feeds his addiction to conspiracies and the new world order through a series of books, pamphlets, and videos ordered from post office boxes in Texas and California. Pete's enormous satellite dish and forty-foot short-wave radio tower also bring in an inordinate amount of information to feed his obsession. So when Pete claims that Sally's father's death twenty years ago wasn't an accident and is, in fact, linked to a recent mysterious death, she's not inclined to believe him. <br />A lead from Pete leads Sally into a murder investigation in Castleford even while she also writes the expose on Cassidy Cochran. Consequently, the work on both assignments sends her life hurtling out of control. Her &quot;chance of a lifetime&quot; assignment isn't what it seems, her love life endures unexpected upheaval, and her father's accidental death might have been murder.<br />The first person narrative allows the reader to participate in EXPOSE, enduring the turmoil and surprise right along with the heroine. Further, Sally's one of those wonderfully strong characters who still doesstupid things and gets carried away by opportunity gone off kilter. Her believable foibles, wonderful enthusiasm, and powerful presence make her a remarkably memorable character. Further, the entire cast of characters, including the dogs and Crazy Pete, make for a fantastic reading experience. And the surprising conclusion is wonderful! Highly recommended.	2001-12-04
1748303:US	49693975	R101CVSZPL2CD	0373244398	271253774	My Heart Remembers (Wyoming Wildflowers) (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	There's beauty in Wyoming wildflowers-- Highly recommended	Eight years ago nineteen-year-old Lisa Currick recognized that the detective Shane Garrison had used her when they arrived in court. She sat at on the side of her mentor Alex, the defendant, while Shane took his place with the prosecution. A bare nod was all she got after weeks of intimate talks, long walks, and hours of fantasy. Lisa was disillusioned to realize that Shane had spent all those hours with her that spring because he wanted information that would convict Alex. The needs of his profession had been the beginning and the ending of their relationship. Indeed, Lisa had believed in two men then. One disappointed her hopes. The other broke her heart. With the trial over, she left New York to return to Wyoming, where she built a life of logic, schedules and control. <br />After all these years on the force, only one outstanding case still haunts Shane. Before he accepts his newest job offer, Shane intends to locate the missing necklace Alex absconded with. Certainly, Shane had gotten a conviction, but even after eight years he wants to know where the necklace went. At least that's his justification when he walks back into Lisa's life. His entrance into her life results in unexpectedly confronting a cold woman that distances herself from everyone rather than the joyful, spirited, artistic Lisa of his memory. Her life is so busy with work and school that Lisa doesn't have time for people. Shane intuitively knows, however, that somewhere behind those carefully constructed walls still exists the woman who identified with the Bur-Marigold, because &quot;they got around, and brighten up everywhere they went.&quot; He intends to bring that woman back.<br />Once again Patricia McLinn pens a touching romance in MY HEART REMEMBERS. The third installment of the Wyoming Wildflowers miniseries, the tie between heroine and flower seems quite appropriate. Hardly survivors who only need the slightest nurturing, both marigolds and this heroine grow despite less than ideal conditions. But with a little nurturing and sunlight, they blossom into remarkable beauties. Lisa's tentative blossoming echoes Shane's growth as well, as he moves beyond reticence into self-honesty regarding his motivations and emotions. A compelling, poignant read, MY HEART REMEMBERS comes highly recommended.	2001-12-03
1751278:US	49693975	R11GJCNCJDN7JN	0373271859	507379445	Once Forbidden... (The Delaney Heirs) (Silhouette Intimate Moments # 1115)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	When passion heats to an inferno	Infidelity and poison words tore them apart when they were little more than children. On the surface Johnna Delaney and Jerrod McCain were direct opposites. She was the daughter of rich and influential rancher; he was the son of drunk living in a trailer on the wrong side of town. Yet every night while her father sleep, Johnna waited for Jerrod at the end of her drive, and would slip into the night for heated lovemaking and long talks of the future. Then something went horribly, tragically wrong, and he left town nine longs years ago. <br />When Jerrod approaches Johnna to ask her to defend Erin McCall, she refuses. Too bad she's the only defense attorney in Inferno, Arizona. Jerrod's night with Erin nine years destroyed her heart, and Johnna's not ready to resurrect the past. Erin had made it out of the same trailer park where Jerrod lived by marrying one of the most affluent businessmen in town. Everyone in town knew Richard beat Erin regularly, so no one was surprised when her report came that he was dead. His skull beaten in, Erin claims someone else did while she lay unconscious from yet another beating. Despite her best intentions, Johnna can't let an innocent woman be convicted of murder, and takes the case.<br />Danger quickly escalates from both her professional and her personal life. Someone doesn't want her investigating the past and leaves threatening notes on her car. The threats prove real when someone breaks into her house while she's there. Tenacious and undaunted, Johnna refuses to back away from the case. She does try to back away from Jerrod, but he won't let her. He buys the house across the street and begins his new position as a church minister. Despite Johnna's determination to keep the door to the past closed, old feelings reawaken. But there are things said and things unsaid that must be confronted if they hope to have a future. That is, if she survives this case.<br />Author Carla Cassidy demonstrates the overwhelming power of words in ONCEFORBIDDEN... Johnna's father had once forbidden her to see Jerrod, making him all that more attractive. It was the sharing of their pain, so similar despite their disparate backgrounds that brought them together. And it was the words spoken and the silences maintained that tore them apart. Johnna carries the deep-seated wounds inflicted by an emotionally abuse father whose words cut to the quick. Jerrod carries the wounds of a neglectful father still mourning the past at the expense of his only son. Yet second chances allow them to discover the true power of words in a passionate, fast paced tale of danger and healing. Very highly recommended.	2001-11-30
1754469:US	49693975	R1EYTA54KNYR14	0515132896	37978648	Heart Mate (Celta's HeartMates, Book 1)	Books	5	25	28	N	N	Absolutely delightful -- Very highly recommended	In the delirium of his third Passage when he gained mastery of his psi powers, T'Ash created a HeartGift that binds him to his future HeartMate. He had fashioned a necklace that lacked his current level of graceful craftsmanship, but that holds his creative, carnal energy. The fine jewel in the center is a large roseamber pendant with an inner flaw that takes a different appearance to each person who views it. Only T'Ash and his HeartMate can see the true image captured within. The necklace will attract and affect only his HeartMate. <br />Danith Mallow prefers the charming and whimsical over the expensive and gilt laden. She comes to the jewelry shop because she's drawn to T'Ash's most sensual and original creations. But the stunning necklace that T'Ash holds out to her at once attracts and repulses her. Overwhelmed by her responses to it, she believes he's cast a filthy seduction spell in an effort to win a common woman to his bed. It leaves her feeling cheapened and oddly betrayed. <br />A Null, someone unaffected by psi gifts, steals the necklace from the counter before T'Ash can convince Danith to take it. Worse, an heir to another Great House calls in his debt of honor, forcing T'Ash to focus on another task rather than searching for the necklace and winning his HeartMate. Now his once serene life is suddenly in a shambles. He had believed pursuing his HeartMate would be simple, easy. Instead, the task becomes incredibly complicated and confusing. <br />Danith wants a family, marriage to a simple man, and a peaceful life, not a nobleman with Flair and dubious intentions. T'Ash, the man who once moved in Downwind circles, and now in rich noble circles, is too different than Danith, too intense and too alone. She's an average woman of common birth and was raised in an orphanage. She's learned to accept that there are many things she cannot have, like an extraordinary psi gift, and T'Ash only reminds her of her insignificance. Danith's fears result in a habit ofrefusing T'Ash, of disbelieving his words and running from him. Yet their destiny drives T'Ash to face her rejection again and again, even though his inept attempts at courtship only seem to infuriate her.<br />Accompanied by his familiar, Zanth, T'Ash will steal the heart of readers with his inept wooing of his HeartMate and his fear of sharing his inner self. His incredible abilities balance a carefully protected vulnerability that makes him endearing to readers. Zanth's attitude about life, that &quot;Life is good,&quot; as he stalks sewer rats and arranges jewels also provides excellent amusement. Indeed, author Robin Owens' world of Celta that includes psi gifts and familiars who communicate telepathically is delicious. Rich with humor and nuance, presenting danger on multiple levels while remaining utterly irresistible, HEARTMATE will capture readers' hearts, and leaving them hoping for a sequel. Very highly recommended.	2001-11-28
1754846:US	49693975	R73R5NFLWWZBO	0373168977	549877025	The Baby in the Back Seat (American Baby) (Harlequin American Romance, No. 897)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Charming story line -- Recommended	Since he was fifteen, Sam Harrison dreamed of creating a family like he had when his father died. His first attempt, however, didn't go well. He never felt wanted at home, and then his flighty wife Paige divorced him -- crowned by the moment when he collected the last of his luggage and Paige unknowingly put their six-month baby in his back seat. He'd been fine with the end of marriage, but the loss of his child was devastating, even if he had spent very little time with her. So when he hears the unexpected sound of his daughter's crying, Sam runs off the road on the western slopes of the Colorado Rockies, plowing through a fence and smashing into a water tower. Then a woman with a gun arrives, turning his world upside down. <br />Laura Evans holds a rifle in the crook of her arm as she rides up to survey the damage to her water tower and fence line. The guy's outrageous tale of an ex-wife who put the baby in the back seat seems terribly unlikely, but certainly not a tale told to cover an untruth. With a totaled SUV, the man can't just drive away, and she can't resist the adorable child. So Laura invites him to the ranch to make repartition for the damage and to wait for a new rental car. The new father obviously loves his daughter, but hasn't a clue when it comes to diapers and baby cereal. Laura's baby skills prove invaluable. Too bad he's a photojournalist with a hard-bitten case of wanderlust. <br />I have a little trouble with the premise of father who's remained absent except for one brief visit with his six month old suddenly turning into Mr. Mom. While the emotions are convincingly portrayed, Sam still should have had a few moments of intense anxiety and feelings of being overwhelmed, even if he does have help. A bit more reality tempering the idealism of the situation would have been far more persuasive for this reader. Despite my misgivings, I also found THE BABY IN THE BACK SEAT impossible to put down as Laura struggles with holding onto her land and herheart. The quick blossoming love affair and the struggles with her past make her a sympathetic and believable character. Recommended.	2001-11-28
1755003:US	49693975	RRSNXJSDHGYPF	0373244290	174868417	Wrangling the Redhead (Silhouette Special Edition #1429) (The Calamity Janes #5)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Dazzling series finale -- Very highly recommended	Sherryl Woods concludes this delightful miniseries, The Calamity Janes, with WRANGLING THE REDHEAD. Five friends share an enduring friendship, begun in high school, self-named for their penchant for broken hearts and troubles. Though their lives are widely divergent now, these women are still as close as sisters, despite their infrequent contact. Now with all her friends happily spoken for, Lauren Winters longs for the love and security her friends seem to share.<br />Following the ten year reunion of The Calamity Janes, Lauren grows increasingly disillusioned with the tinsel glamour of stardom, longing to be valued for herself rather than her looks and box office draw. Determined to earn her way, Lauren moves in with Grady and Karen Blackhawk, offering her skills with horses in exchange for room and board. For the first time, Lauren feels like she's where she belongs doing what she truly loves. And freedom from the camera frees her from the rigid self-control she's maintained for ten years.<br />Wrangler Wade Owens can't believe his eyes when he sees a woman he perceives to be a tenderfoot too close to the dangerous horse Midnight. Badly abused by a previous owner, Midnight doesn't allow anyone too close. Even when he realizes he's underestimates Lauren's skill with horses, Wade can't help thinking that she has &quot;more sass than sense.&quot; Yet he finds her ability to take him by surprise intriguing. Although he suspects she still has ties to Los Angeles, Wade has no idea of Lauren's true identity. <br />Lauren enjoys Wade's gritty reality, as opposed the slick perfection that characterizes the men she knows from show business. She revels in the opportunity to be appreciated for her skills, and hesitates to reveal her Hollywood success or her hefty bank account, especially when she learns that Wade deeply despises the wealthy. Scars from the past prevent him from seeing past to the dollar signs to the potential goodness of those with wealth. But Lauren risks all to keep her identity a secret.<br />Sherryl Woods concludes The Calamity Janes miniseries with a fiery match in WRANGLING THE REDHEAD, a character driven romance with a marvelous cast. Wade doesn't fall into the trap of resenting a woman who earns more money than him; instead, he bears scars that leave a bitter memory of the damage that the privileged wealthy can inflict. Lauren knows she should come clean, but fears rejection, making her an endearing and sympathetic character. The Calamity Janes always hover in the background, fully prepared to meddle without ever inferring with the pace of the tale. After five installments, it saddens this reviewer to say goodbye to this marvelous cast of characters. With Wood's characteristic light-hearted touch, WRANGLING THE REDHEAD is a dazzling series finale, coming very highly recommended.	2001-11-28
1757808:US	49693975	R3GWJMT0T0QDM9	0505524546	503499887	The Wildest Shore	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Delicious wanderlust -- Highly recommended	In 1811, lady's maid Anne Hazlett accompanies her employer on a journey to India, where Pamela Goodwyn hopes to find a husband. Mrs. Goodwyn had hired Anne to accompany her irresponsible daughter, assuming that Anne's quiet ways indicate a dull reliability. The flirtatious Horatio Merivale, a lieutenant in the East India Company, likewise underestimates the quiet lady's maid, flirting outrageously with Pamela to while away the long voyage. Too bad Anne disregarded mother's caution that she is too intelligent and sensitive to be happy in be a servant, in hopes finding her dream.<br />Social classes fall away, however, when a vicious storm breaks up the ship. Pamela and her brother leave Anne to find her way to safety, too concerned with obtaining a place on the longboat to save a mere servant. In the dark and rising water, it is Horatio's hand that reaches down to lend her aid. They eventually climb aboard the make shift raft three surviving crewmen lashed together with rope and found objects, trusting the Hand of Destiny to lead them to safety. They are rescued by a loathsome pirate, and eventually mutiny, finding their way to the island that has haunted Anne's dreams, driving to her quest to a South Seas paradise.<br />Lisa Cach's deft pen once again creates a marvelously imaginative tale of filled with exotic locations and fanciful characters in THE WILDEST SHORE. Her own wanderlust and love of the unusual lends passion to the tale, allowing her distant experiences to sparkle through. Further, the fast paced adventuresome plot will hold the reader's rapt attention as the characters struggle with a biting monkey, leeches, and headhunters. Rather than the perfect paradise, these details lend the novel a convincing sense of normality amid an extraordinary tale. In addition, the phenomenal growth of the hero and heroine gives the novel a likewise convincing feel as Anne learns independence and as Horatio moves from a shiftless ne'er-do-well to a man of depth and passion. Readers should be aware, if sharing with a young audience, that the sensual exploration between characters is extraordinarily erotic, not because the acts they share are especially unusually, but because they are described in great detail. Very highly recommended.	2001-11-26
1758961:US	49693975	R3KAQMJ1TI3HHK	0759550239	371914273	Harmless Error	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Very highly recommended	Defense attorney Derek Graniger comes to the courthouse not to hear the verdict of George Perry's case, the father stands accused to the kidnapping and murder of five-year-old Amy, but to gauge the reaction of the victim's mother. Sure enough, Veronica Keys Perry's sneer of satisfaction reminds Derek how fortunate he had been to escape the psychotic woman. In fact, only Derek and George could understand the harm of allowing an innocent child to grow up in Veronica's twisted grasp. Two weeks later Derek finds himself at the prison planning to explain to George that he cannot provide appellate representation. George changes his mind, however, when he reveals that not only is Amy alive, but that Derek is the father. If the appeal succeeds, George will reveal Amy's location.<br />Derek needs a creative, imaginative lawyer that can provide a flash of inspiration. Derek is the technician; he knows the law in all its infinite logical detail. Now he needs a renegade like Laurel Banyon, who has never lost a case. He admires Laurel's competitive, gutsy style and believes she can look beyond the logic of the transcripts to find the \\"emotional error\\" that will justify an appeal. While he needs Laurel's skill, he also must control while carefully challenging her curiosity. He must keep her focused on the drama of the transcript rather than the drama behind it, or Laurel will guess the facts Derek prefers to remain concealed. Indeed, Derek risks his license to practice law with this case; in hiring Laurel he also risks his heart. <br />While novels with legal backgrounds abound, Kate Donovan's masterful display of creative lawyering and romancing lends HARMLESS ERROR delightfully fresh and original qualities. The characters are markedly believable without falling into the predictable traps frequented by romance authors. For example, Laurel learns of Derek's paternity, she doesn't waste a lot of emotional energy berating him for not revealing the whole story, thereby proving her professionalism and understanding of the implications of such knowledge. Further, while many plots involve men who become unwitting fathers, this method is highly original. Indeed, Veronica's obsession with her appearance and her sexual perversions lend the novel not only a fascinating plot, but also an intriguing villain. HARMLESS ERROR comes very highly recommended.	2001-11-25
1759941:US	49693975	R1N43GOVQBP8V	0373259565	492500893	Mr. November (Men To The Rescue)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Sparks fly -- Very highly recommended	Amanda Barker devotes most of her nonworking hours to charity work. She's currently putting together a calendar that incorporates a different firefighter for each month of the year to benefit a local burn institute. The calendar is virtually complete, lacking only Mr. November. Josh Marshall would make the perfect model for the month, if only he would stop saying no.<br />When her request becomes personal, Amanda can't back down. She doesn't want Josh to see her panic every time he comes too close. Seven years ago Amanda made a promise to herself, swearing to make reparation in the only way left to her, allowing her to live with memories and overwhelming guilt.<br />In an interesting twist on role reversal, Josh doesn't like the idea of posing for a calendar because it makes him into a sex object rather than valuing the work he performs. Beneath Amanda prissy exterior, Josh senses a woman filled with fear. Her elegant control embodies the opposite elements that he find attractive in women, yet he's attracted to Amanda in the strongest way.<br />Josh wants to Amanda from a sweet, refined, classy recluse to the wild and unreserved woman he believes her to be. He hadn't meant to delve into her past or confront her ghosts, but seeing her fear makes him involved. Indeed, Amanda stymies Josh, but he's up to the challenge. He agrees to model for her calendar if she'll agree to his courtship.<br />Lori Foster's unmatchable talent for creating sparkling characterizations once again shines in MR. NOVEMBER. As playboy hero Josh meets his match in petite Amanda, sparks fly. Josh doesn't hesitate to commit himself to Amanda, despite a string of women and wild reputation. Nor does he dodge the tremendous burden of guilt that has paralyzed her for so long. As Josh's warmth brings healing, Amanda strokes a shared heat that threatens to blaze out of control. In addition, Foster successfully reintroduces favorite characters from the previous two novels of the series, providing unobtrusive updates on favorite characters, thereby allowing their presence to enrich the storyline. Very highly recommended.	2001-11-24
1762005:US	49693975	R1CFNRHRR6Z0S3	0373764030	624868250	Luke'S Promise (Tall, Dark--And Married!) (Harlequin Desire)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Charming -- Highly recommended	Devotion to the woman who treated them as a mother motivates three handsome bachelors to find wives quickly in Eileen Wilk's Tall, Dark, &amp; Eligible miniseries. Ada's experimental treatment is exorbitantly expensive, but they'll do anything to prolong her life. To pay for her treatment, they must fulfill the rules of their trust. Jacob West, nicknamed the Iceman, was the first brother to seek a wife. Now it is Luke's turn.<br />Luke storms into his brother's home office to declare his outrage regarding the sale of Maggie Stewart's horse Fine Dandy. Jacob protests that Malcolm Stewart didn't ask anyone's permission to sell his daughter's horse following her minor riding accident. Further, Jacob has no right to intervene, explaining that Maggie declined his proposal, to which Luke declares: &quot;You're not going to marry her...so I guess I will.&quot; <br />Maggie resents her father's intrusion in her life. The sale of Fine Daddy simply pushed her over the edge. When Luke proposes, &quot;Marry me, and you can have your horse back, money to continue competing-and me as a trainer.&quot; While she doesn't initially believe the sincerity of Luke's proposal, Maggie accepts with her mother listening, &quot;Why not? I've got nothing better to do.&quot; So begins their outrageous elopement to Los Vegas and a marvelous interplay of family dynamics that keeps the pace moving briskly along.<br />In the second of the Tall, Dark &amp; Eligible miniseries, author Eileen Wilks again presents a delightful romance with LUKE'S PROMISE. Attraction between these charming characters has existed for many years, but the events that give impetus to forming a relationship prove to be heart warming and amusing. Luke's defense of Maggie to her parents following overheard insults alone makes the book a marvelous read. Highly recommended.	2001-11-22
1762224:US	49693975	R1558DJTCAHJ7D	0373169000	616809060	Taming The Tabloid Heiress	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Worthy of headlines! Very highly recommended	With a father who is the chair of a Fortune 500 publishing company, Kit O'Brien manages make her own headlines regularly in the tabloids with her outrageous exploits. The most recent disaster resulting in a bowl of dog food being poured into the lap of her father's favorite godson Blain Rourke, who is also speculated to be her fiancé. Kit's powerful personality and determination to make a difference seems to backfire frequently, but no more so than when sets out on the Last Frontier cruise. <br />Kit accepts the assignment for the Last Frontier cruise hoping she can use it as lever to better assignments and a method of escaping her father. He owns the paper she works for, forcing her to publish her pieces under the pseudonym Carol Jones. While her father hopes her work is a walk on the wild side before she happily settles down with Blain to make babies, Kit considers her work a good deal more important. Tired of writing pieces on fluff like wine tasting, she finally landed her first serious assignment. Kit's first interview is with Joshua Parker, a man who unfortunately has sworn off the press.<br />With Kit's perchance for headline splashing, Joshua likewise does not take her seriously. Joshua immediately recognizes the tabloid heiress on the plane that wings them both to the cruise. Nine years of writing the script of Final Frontier has band him something of a cult figure, and he's ready to sacrifice notoriety for becoming a gentleman farmer. He quickly realizes that Kit doesn't recognize him from the television show, but as a man in his own right. Too bad he's sick of headlines, and too bad she needs this interview.<br />Michele Dunaway pens a lighthearted, delightfully fresh romance in TAMING THE TABLOID HEIRESS. With a sexy hero that will make the reader's heart go pitter-pat, and a dynamic heroine with a perchance for trouble, Dunaway creates a glittering tale that keeps the senses reeling. Indeed, outrageous antics, mesmerizing sensuality, and irresistible characters that find themselves at cross purposes combine to create a memorable reading experience. Very highly recommended.	2001-11-21
1763672:US	49693975	R3JZNZVG1TDVK2	0373271824	54227069	Born In Secret (Firstborn Sons) (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Move over James Bond - Highly recommended	Walker James has the assignment to infiltrate a Middle Eastern Terrorist organization called the Brothers of Darkness so that he may locate and destroy an anthrax lab before a deadly plot decimates the majority of the country's population. Walker's delinquent childhood and experience as a thief hold him in good stead as he walks the shadowy world of espionage. Indeed, Walker fits well into a world without the clarity of black and white, preferring to walk the ambiguous gray areas. He's earned the nickname The Ghost for his ability to slip in and out of seemingly impenetrable places. While he works well alone or as a part of a team, he's not prepared for his new partner. Jasmine LeBarr outmaneuvered him three years ago, and he's never forgiven her.<br />Jasmine goes undercover as an emissary called Rose Mahrain with Walker accompanying her as her driver. She has a gift for gaining people's trust, and of getting them to underestimate her, which she uses to her advantage. While Walker calls her an opportunist who will go any length to get what she wants, Jasmine actually adheres carefully to her own moral code. Walker is dangerous to her well being as any man she's ever brought down. He's already hurt her once with his callous dismissal, and she refuses to be that vulnerable again. Indeed, their lingering attraction may prove to be the most dangerous aspect of the mission. <br />Kylie Brant weaves an intriguing web of danger in this timely tale of terrorism and romance in BORN IN SECRET. Unfortunately, while the theme of first-born sons frames the narrative, it does not affect the plot as a whole, resulting in a tacked on feeling at the end. Nevertheless, BORN IN SECRET is a highly believable, vividly realized tale. The fast paced plot and the strong characterizations are nicely balanced, resulting in a tale at once deadly, yet richly balanced by powerful emotions and physical attraction. Jasmine is a vivacious and strong heroine who refuses to allow Walker's scathingcomments regarding their shared history get to her. In addition, she knows exactly how to apply her feminine wiles to great advantage to the men she encounters. Further, Walker's James Bond-like charisma and looks, complete with cool spy toys, makes him a memorable hero. Highly recommended.	2001-11-20
1763783:US	49693975	RS5VMHEGS7V1A	0373764014	794432234	Bachelorette (20 Amber Court) (Harlequin Desire)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Recommended	As she rushes to review the sketches for her latest jewelry designs, Meredith Blair can't help reflecting on the irony of designing wedding rings, the very kind of rings she has no hope of wearing. She's purposefully shut herself off from romantic entanglements after a professor burned her badly in college. Loose clothes designed to conceal her busty figure, thick glasses and little makeup allow her to avoid male attention. But millionaire Adam Richards looks beyond the obvious, seeing a beautiful woman conceal behind a wall of frump.<br />When bachelor Adam Richards sees the frumpy woman from the jewelry store transformed into a glitzy siren, he finds himself rescuing her from the charity action. He prefers the non-flashy Meredith. He also can't help admiring her talents for designing not only small pieces of jewelry, but large sculptures complete with the need of warehouse space and a blowtorch. Unfortunately, it may take a blowtorch to convince Meredith to accept a new relationship. Returned gifts and unanswered messages don't bode well for this would-be suitor.<br />THE BACHELORETTE by Kate Little capitalizes on a bachelorette auction to bring hearts together. These charming characters demonstrate tenacity as they struggle with desire and love. Meredith's sculpting talent, complete with blowtorch, gives her an unusual flair, and provides the plot with some rather interesting twists as she blossoms when her work finding admirers. Adam's touching persistence likewise touches a chord with readers as he risks all for love. A delightful romance, THE BACHELORETTE comes recommended.	2001-11-20
1764051:US	49693975	R2OJ59MTLIHQQQ	0373790155	437443646	Wild Side	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Extremely sensual -- Recommended	Melissa Rodgers wants to forsake her good girl exterior and take a walk on the wild side. Five years of a bland, but pleasant, relationship that never showed any sparkle makes her want it all. Not that she looks forward to the day when she marries, has a couple of kids and drives a SUV. But in the mean time, she wants wild nights, sex toys, and a boy toy. So she completes a makeover, and asks her wild neighbor Rose for an introduction to a &quot;friend&quot;. Rose complies, using the opportunity for her own purposes. She fears for her safely and plans to leave town for a while. If her watchers see a woman in the window, they'll never suspect she's gone. So when Rose arranges an introduction, she never explains the blind date isn't for herself, but for Melissa.<br />Riley Anderson, a private detective working with the FBI and on an assignment to pinpoint a leak in the local police department, arrives at Rose's apartment expecting a sex siren. He's seen the evidence of Rose's revolving door and her ability to transform her appearance and demeanor based on the company she keeps. But instead of a sex siren, Riley meets a tentative, frightened kitten eager to play. Her innocence awakens his tenderness, but this is supposed to be Rose, the sex goddess that keeps an ever shifting population of men dancing at attendance. Soon Riley finds that the woman, he later learns she's actually Melissa, can touch his heart and emotions deeply. Not exactly what he wanted from an undercover assignment.<br />The struggle between yielding to one's desires while remaining tightly in control of one's emotions becomes the focus of Isabel Sharpe's THE WILD SIDE. Unfortunately, at times the plot seems to threaten to spiral out of control as it pushes the envelop of plausibility. Not that the individual elements aren't possible, or the writing isn't good, but when the package is put together, it feels like a bit too much. Yet the characters are so incredibly dynamic and engaging that readers can't resist their charm. In addition, the secondary plot provides a vibrant contrast to the main plot, ultimately proving that the promiscuous, wild Rose isn't so different from the conservative Melissa after all. Indeed, Rose is such a wonderful character that she threatens to take over the storyline; perhaps she deserved her own book. Definately a walk on the wild side, THE WILD SIDE comes recommended.	2001-11-20
1766955:US	49693975	R10JIGGUXGAIX9	0505524554	637197649	Whispers of Goodbye (Candleglow)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Gothic romance at its best! Highly recommended	suicide. The years of the Civil War brought devastation to their fields and mansion, leaving little for Catherine to live upon. When her sister Elizabeth's letter comes from Louisiana, bidding her to come quickly, she immediately leaves for Whispering Oaks, the beautiful house on the Mississippi left to Elizabeth by her grandmother. She couldn't help wondering if her sister's letter would leave to her salvation or to her ruin. <br />When John McMahon married Elizabeth and took her to Louisiana, Cat had resented him with a fierceness reserved for the young. The sisters had been close, and at fourteen Cat had resented the implication that he might need Elizabeth more than she does. Now twenty-two, she arrives at Whispering Oaks to learn her sister was not necessarily the woman she remembered. Elizabeth has disappeared, and whispered gossip and overheard comments reveal a selfish, sometimes cruel woman who always sought, but never seemed to find, happiness. When her body is discovered in a nearby field, even her husband does not mourn. <br />Dark shadows of betrayal and secrets lurk beneath a promise of new beginnings in Karen White's gothic romance WHISPERS OF GOODBYE. Cat questions the truth as to her sister's character, boldly confronting danger and disillusionment with equal strength of character. The dark and secretive John lends the novel a sensual undertone, balancing the shadow with light as he and Cat fall in love and build a marriage together. Yet classic gothic elements continue to cast lingering doubts and shadowed fears, keeping the ominous overtone consistent as ancient superstitions and dark family secrets come to light. Highly recommended.	2001-11-18
1767482:US	49693975	R3NN70A7ZQM735	0505524554	637197649	Whispers of Goodbye (Candleglow)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Gothic romance at its best! Highly recommended	Grieving the tragic drowning of her young son, Catherine was unprepared for her husband's blame and subsequent suicide. The years of the Civil War brought devastation to their fields and mansion, leaving little for Catherine to live upon. When her sister Elizabeth's letter comes from Louisiana, bidding her to come quickly, she immediately leaves for Whispering Oaks, the beautiful house on the Mississippi left to Elizabeth by her grandmother. She couldn't help wondering if her sister's letter would leave to her salvation or to her ruin. <br />When John McMahon married Elizabeth and took her to Louisiana, Cat had resented him with a fierceness reserved for the young. The sisters had been close, and at fourteen Cat had resented the implication that he might need Elizabeth more than she does. Now twenty-two, she arrives at Whispering Oaks to learn her sister was not necessarily the woman she remembered. Elizabeth has disappeared, and whispered gossip and overheard comments reveal a selfish, sometimes cruel woman who always sought, but never seemed to find, happiness. When her body is discovered in a nearby field, even her husband does not mourn. <br />Dark shadows of betrayal and secrets lurk beneath a promise of new beginnings in Karen White's gothic romance WHISPERS OF GOODBYE. Cat questions the truth as to her sister's character, boldly confronting danger and disillusionment with equal strength of character. The dark and secretive John lends the novel a sensual undertone, balancing the shadow with light as he and Cat fall in love and build a marriage together. Yet classic gothic elements continue to cast lingering doubts and shadowed fears, keeping the ominous overtone consistent as ancient superstitions and dark family secrets come to light. Highly recommended.	2001-11-17
1767554:US	49693975	R2TD9ZV5TDPK7F	0373790139	995129687	Just A Little Sex...	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Just a little sex just isn't enough -- Highly recommended	Years of workouts, crummy day jobs and night school finally complete Zoe's makeover from plump naivety to professional woman. Four months ago she met the guy of her dreams, with sexy looks, a successful job and lots of money. She's still incredibly self-conscious of her body, but with candlelight the missionary position, no one else has to know. Then a gorgeous blond drops the bombshell sharing an elevator in lieu of renting a room, and Zoe's world crashes down around her. Drake excuses his behavior, claiming it was just a little sex...it didn't mean anything. Now she has to decide between forgiveness and moving on.<br />One time world surf champion Aiden Mitchell has been disillusioned by women who only surrender to men with wealth and fame. Six months at Hideaway Beach and celibacy has brought a lot of healing. Meeting Zoe leaves him a bit baffled, however. He's never met a woman that wanted him, yet resisted him. But he tired of &quot;casual sex and a pocketful of condoms,&quot; and Zoe proved that one night wasn't nearly enough. But she thinks he's a no account beach bum, and he didn't enlighten her. The last time he'd tried to be straight with a woman it landed him in court and in all the newspapers. But Zoe was the best sex he's ever had and now he's determined they can share so much more. Of course, first he has to find her and prove that just a little sex just isn't enough.<br />Zoe's self-consciousness and prim attitudes may initially alienate readers who prefer their heroines dynamic and confident; however, Zoe overcomes her inhibitions in the arms of Aiden. In addition, most pop psychologists agree that a man who cheats once will do so again. So Zoe's girlfriend's advice and her own misgivings about his future faithfulness also may strike a false note with readers. Those issues aside, however, Miranda Lee creates a sensual, sexy romance that proves that in the right context, JUST A LITTLE SEX can lead to something very special. Highly recommended.	2001-11-17
1767930:US	49693975	R26OD4LD6AB1J5	0373763956	508542459	Some Kind Of Incredible (20 Amber Court, Book 2 / Silhouette Desire, No. 1395)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Steamy! -- Highly recommended	Two years ago, Nicholas Caden's wife died from cancer. Their relationship had never contained the kind of passion that curled his toes anyway, so his vow to never marry again seems logical. Nick throws himself into his work, instead, devoting long hours to making Colette, Inc. a success. But now the company risks a hostile takeover, and he risks unemployment. Suddenly the only thing in his world that feels solid is his administrative assistant Lila Maxwell. Even if he's not a forever kind of guy, Lila offers life, and he wants to share it, if only for a while.<br />Lila left behind sunny Florida for Indiana for a chance to start over, without rumor dogging her every move. She has a wonderful apartment at Amber Court, a job she loves, and a boss to die for. But when Nick suddenly begins to look at her as if she's a scrumptious dessert, and her job is threatened by the take over, life becomes very unstable. A steamy encounter of Nick's desk leaves her reeling with emotional intensity of their lovemaking and a possible pregnancy. Now she wants to be the one to teach him to trust his heart. But the question remains as to the damage she may receive to her own heart.<br />I admit to being a bit torn about reviewing SOME KIND OF INCREDIBLE, simply because this is the era of political correctness. Most corporations forbid relationships between a VP and his administrative assistant simply because he's the boss and holds unfair advantage over his employee. Fears of sexual harassment lawsuits rule our era. Indeed, at one point the hero briefly entertains and rejects the impulse to fire his admin simply to make his life simpler after he's incurred incredible emotional complications. Furthermore, the heroine worries throughout the book about her reputation if anyone learns she's dating the boss. Nevertheless, this is the substance of genre fiction, and fantasy shouldn't be ruled out because it is politically incorrect. And author Katherine Garbera is a master of the forbidden encounter on company property, as she demonstrates in SOME KIND OF INCREDIBLE. Highly recommended.	2001-11-17
1769660:US	49693975	R37H6173CLFPPU	0373710216	754899713	We Saw Mommy Kissing Santa Claus (Harlequin Superromance No. 1021)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Highly recommended	After all the counseling sessions, promises and confessions, Jaclyn thought she and her husband had a chance of healing of their marriage; that is, until she found Terry's truck parked in the dimly lit parking lot of one of Nevada's legalized houses of prostitution. With three young children in the car and a broken heart, Jaclyn left a clear message behind when she pulled out of the parking lot. Terry had four slashed tires.<br />A year later and the divorce is at last final. But Terry's wealthy father and a legion of lawyers insured joint custody, lousy child support and no spousal maintenance. Since she married Terry straight out of high school, Jaclyn lacks education and experience, but not determination as she proves by long hours as a waitress. Then Cole Perrini shows up at the diner, reminding her of everything she'd like to forget. Too bad his sticking up for her results in unemployment.<br />Cole likewise would like to forget the small town where he and Jaclyn attending high school. He'd like to forget the responsibility of raising his younger brothers in a trailer where his mother lay dying and his father was always at work. Years of hunger and sacrifice, and failed marriage, insured he never wanted a wife and children. So he's not sure what he's doing hiring her, or later having dinner with Jaclyn and her children. <br />Once again the talented pen of Brenda Novak creates a heart-warming tale just in time for the holiday season in WE SAW MOMMY KISSING SANTA CLAUS. I can't help admiring a heroine with enough gumption to slice her husband's tires and work as waitress rather than keeping a comfortable life. With the characteristic painful situations of divorce and financial survival, Novak's tale is steeped in realism, yet balanced with hope. Cole's overwhelming responsibilities in his youth make him a likewise appealing character. Another terrific hit from this author, WE SAW MOMMY KISSING SANTA CLAUS comes highly recommended.	2001-11-15
1770057:US	49693975	ROT64T1DELYDR	050552452X	469834970	Shamara (Shielder Series, Book 3)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award of Excellence	Women on Travan are only good either for breeding purposes or for trading for goods and services. Eirene Kane had hoped to escape those fates because she's a gifted healer, but her uncle has other plans for her. He's going to barter her virginity for a trade route. Eirene can't let that happen; it would only be a matter of time before her betrothed discovered that she's an Enhancer. So she stows away on a passing ship traveling to Saron. There she seeks employment as a courtesan, planning to rid herself of her irksome virginity quickly to make her worthless as trade fodder for her uncle. She'll use her gifts as an Enhancer to make the encounter swift, and then be on her way. Too bad her client seems immune to her mind manipulations.<br />Jarek san Ranul stands as the guardian between his people and extension. His people are Shielders, genetically resistant to the Controllers' mind manipulation. He's found a wormhole that possibly leads to Shamara, meaning sanctuary, for his people. Jarek believes that Enhancers, a race now believed to be extinct, had the ability to use a portal to travel to other galaxies. With such a heavy burden always with him, Jarek has never sought a relationship with a woman. Sick to death of being alone, he allows himself to be talked into a visit to the Pleasure Dome for a night of warmth and comfort in a woman's arms. He's stunned to learn the woman is a virgin. But an assignation attempt proves the woman to have the very gifts he seeks to aid his people.<br />SHAMARA by Catherine Spangler is an outstanding read. With the perfect blend of psychic gifts, space travel and old fashioned romance, Spangler creates a novel readers will find impossible to put down. Eirene proves her extraordinary valor time and again as she puts other's needs ahead of her own. Likewise, Jarek's concern for the survival of his people is only outshined by his concern for Eirene, a difficult balance indeed. Furthermore, the secondary story of the dangerous Leor Commander Gunnar juxtaposed by the lighthearted courtesan Lani, the &quot;blue-feather lady&quot; from the Pleasure Dome, provides comic relief for an otherwise very intense story. This fast paced plot with its wonderful secondary plot line will please previous fans in addition to earning many new ones. The carefully balanced characterizations and action make SHAMARA a Winner of the WordWeaving Award of Excellence.	2001-11-15
1772374:US	49693975	R1JUJ28SOBQRJZ	0373710232	697691992	Unexpected Marriage (The Talbot Twins, No. 2 / Harlequin Superromance, No. 1023)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Challenging situations -- Recommended	When her nineteen-year-old daughter announces her pregnancy, Caroline Talbot Manning is mortified. She dreads to think her daughter Shelley is repeated her mistakes. Caroline had gotten pregnant and gotten married too young; choices that led to an irate divorce and then later to the realization she had fallen for a man who didn't want children. Disillusioned, Caroline stopped believing in love and happily-ever-after, raising her daughter with the help of extended family and a lot of hard work. Caroline had sworn Shelley would never find herself deserted and penniless by instilling a healthy respect for independence and education in her daughter. Now her daughter announces she's marrying Jake, and if Caroline doesn't support that decision, Shelley will get married without her mother's help.<br />Lt. Commander Matt Kearan worries that his twenty-year-old son's dreams of becoming a physician are going to change. After Matt's divorce, and his ex-wife's eventual death, Matt had come to live with him; but the time apart had instilled permanent distance. He understands Caroline and Jake's determination to make the kind of family for their child that they had never had. He also understands Carolyn's reactions. Nevertheless, despite his own feelings, Matt prefers to support his son's decisions rather that risk alienating him. With the exuberance of youth, Jake and Shelley believe they can have this child and still fulfill their dreams. He hopes if he and Carolyn support their children, then they will succeed where their parents failed. Now his job is to convince Carolyn that they can help Jake and Shelley stay together.<br />As a mutual attraction provides stunning undercurrents, Caroline and Matt face some of the toughest parenting situations possible in UNEXPECTED MARRIAGE. Readers may be put off by Carolyn's prickly defensiveness, but will be won over by her obvious dedication to her daughter's well being. Morning sickness, marriage plans, and the over confidence of youthlend this novel a powerful background as these unexpected grandparents become unexpectedly attracted. Wonderful secondary characters and a strong secondary love story result in a delightful read. Recommended.	2001-11-13
1772432:US	49693975	RS0IOJBYHT9FF	0373710208	45558150	Zoey Phillips: Girlfriends (Harlequin Superromance No. 1020)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Absolutely charming -- Highly recommended	Zoey Phillips, Charlotte Moore, and Lydia Lane met just after high school while working at a wilderness resort in the Rocky Mountains. Ten years later at the reunion of the Jasper Park Lodger summer staff, someone speculates what fun it might be to look up the boy that led to their first heartbreak. Perhaps he's balding, paunchy, and boring. Then at the next year's reunion, they'd all report their results. Zoey doesn't think about it again until six months later when she accepts a friend's invitation to help plan her stepmother's wedding.<br />Sitting in a restaurant in Stony Creek, British Columbia, Zoey immediately recognizes her high school crush from across the room. Ryan Donnelly, the handsome track star of Fullerton Valley High, had convinced her to &quot;pretend&quot; to be his girlfriend so he make the object of his desires jealous. Zoey's dream that Ryan might realize she was the girl of his dreams went unrealized. But she'd never forgotten the boy who taught her to French kiss. Now Ryan enthusiastically greets Zoey, once he recognizes her, making her feel every bit the gauche teenager she once was. <br />Zoey intends to stay in town for five weeks, but the hotel is closing for the season, leaving her without adequate accommodations. When Ryan's brother Cameron hears she needs a place, he offers the ranch's garage apartment. He also intends to play matchmaker and see his brother settled. Cameron is nothing like his younger, flirtatious brother. Cameron, a single father, is steady, reliable, boring. So why does Zoey find herself drawn to the wrong brother?<br />While the plot might be a bit predictable, that in no ways detracts from the fun of ZOEY PHILLIPS. The premise is wonderful, as are the characterizations. Any return to the past is fraught with risk, and Zoey meets those risks head on, with her own zany style. As she undercuts Cameron's desire to control everyone and everything around him, Zoey demonstrates admirable self confidence and pride with thewoman she's made herself into, from her choice of names and career, to her darkened auburn hair; too bad she knows nothing about men. Consequently, she becomes perfect foil for the brooding, silent hero in a balance of light and shadow. Highly recommended.	2001-11-13
1772445:US	49693975	R3RWIXJCB62AFH	0373710240	147941983	Shenandoah Christmas: You, Me & the Kids (Harlequin Superromance No. 1024)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Christmas magic -- Highly recommended	Rising singing star Cait Gregory sacrificed everything to her dream. When she was eighteen her father threw her out on Christmas Eve because she didn't apply for college, but hid the applications in the attic. The rift has never healed between Cait and her father. Now her sister's on bed rest waiting for the birth of her first child, leaving Cait to fill her place as choir director. Without Cait, there won't be a Christmas pageant this year and ten-year-old Maddie Tremaine won't be able to the announcing angel. <br />Single father Ben Tremaine is also a Christmas Grinch. His mother walked out on Christmas Eve, leaving her husband and child to grieve on each return of the holiday. Now widowed, Ben cannot rely on anyone else to help his children celebrate. Worse, this year the temporary choir director makes the holidays even more difficult. She's poised on the brink of stardom, and wouldn't be able to offer him more than a brief affair. As a result, he finds himself acting the first class jerk in an effort to defend himself from her sparkling presence.<br />The magic of Christmas brings healing in SHENANDOAH CHRISTMAS. With a brilliance that matches the season, Lynnette Kent creates a lovely romance filled with the challenges of single parenthood and mismatched dreams. Add a couple of adorable children and SHENANDOAH CHRISTMAS becomes a memorable read. Gently touching, at times amusing, always heart felt, SHENANDOAH CHRISTMAS comes highly recommended.	2001-11-13
1772726:US	49693975	RXOE6FDPI7XML	1586082361	302463397	Saxon's Love	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Recommended	Three years have passed since Ranulf of Ravenwood took a sword thrust from Sir Stephen Dubois, leading everyone to believe he had died. Now he returns to his birthright though Ravenwood Manor may now be in the hands of a Norman, it will always live in his heart. Assuming the visage of a Tinker, Ranulf dons a mask of leather so he might pass unidentified. <br />In need of revenge, Ranulf had forced a woman to his bed after her husband brutally murdered his wife and children. While intended to be an act of violence, the joining was profound for both participants, stirring desire in the woman for the first time, and living forever in his memory. That woman, Brenna de Rouen, is the Norman who now holds Ravenwood. <br />Brenna had never known the satisfaction of being well loved while in her marriage bed. Her husband had been a brute, and she fears the King will not long tolerate her aversion to marrying again. Brenna cannot forget that one-hour of passion that aroused her womanhood fully, leaving her desirous of the man who had, some would say, forced her. The lasting consequences of that union bring her life joy, and she often wonders of the man who touched her so deeply. <br />The tale between Ranulf and Brenna reminds the reader of Robinhood and of those same ancient days when women were property, and the generous spirit of outlaws repaired the damage done by those noble born. Echoing the harsh spirit of the time, the violence and the attitudes of this ancient era bring a sense of realism to this tale of forbidden love. Readers who love medieval romance, will revel in the tone and flavor Grall creates, both in its boldness and in its sensualness. Recommended.	2001-11-13
1772854:US	49693975	R1TOXO6BWS0LUQ	0373710208	45558150	Zoey Phillips: Girlfriends (Harlequin Superromance No. 1020)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Absolutely charming -- Highly recommended	Zoey Phillips, Charlotte Moore, and Lydia Lane met just after high school while working at a wilderness resort in the Rocky Mountains. Ten years later at the reunion of the Jasper Park Lodger summer staff, someone speculates what fun it might be to look up the boy that led to their first heartbreak. Perhaps he's balding, paunchy, and boring. Then at the next year's reunion, they'd all report their results. Zoey doesn't think about it again until six months later when she accepts a friend's invitation to help plan her stepmother's wedding.<br />Sitting in a restaurant in Stony Creek, British Columbia, Zoey immediately recognizes her high school crush from across the room. Ryan Donnelly, the handsome track star of Fullerton Valley High, had convinced her to &quot;pretend&quot; to be his girlfriend so he make the object of his desires jealous. Zoey's dream that Ryan might realize she was the girl of his dreams went unrealized. But she'd never forgotten the boy who taught her to French kiss. Now Ryan enthusiastically greets Zoey, once he recognizes her, making her feel every bit the gauche teenager she once was. <br />Zoey intends to stay in town for five weeks, but the hotel is closing for the season, leaving her without adequate accommodations. When Ryan's brother Cameron hears she needs a place, he offers the ranch's garage apartment. He also intends to play matchmaker and see his brother settled. Cameron is nothing like his younger, flirtatious brother. Cameron, a single father, is steady, reliable, boring. So why does Zoey find herself drawn to the wrong brother?<br />While the plot might be a bit predictable, that in no ways detracts from the fun of ZOEY PHILLIPS. The premise is wonderful, as are the characterizations. Any return to the past is fraught with risk, and Zoey meets those risks head on, with her own zany style. As she undercuts Cameron's desire to control everyone and everything around him, Zoey demonstrates admirable self confidence and pride with thewoman she's made herself into, from her choice of names and career, to her darkened auburn hair; too bad she knows nothing about men. Consequently, she becomes perfect foil for the brooding, silent hero in a balance of light and shadow. Highly recommended.	2001-11-13
1772878:US	49693975	R349XOHXA10JNS	037379018X	227191147	Driven Snowe	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A new twist on romance! -- Very highly recommended	They agree from the beginning that they will share a sexual arrangement, not a relationship. Yet sexy corporate tycoon Josh Montgomery finds himself in the town's library seeking an old yearbook, scanning for Angela's name when she leaves his bed without a word, a note, or a phone number. Accustomed to being pursued, Josh finds the reversal attractive, if unnerving. The crumbs she tosses about herself and her past only whet his appetite, leaving him hungering for more, despite his efforts to draw Angela out. He does, however, manage to extract a commitment to six months of mind altering, fantastic sex.<br />Librarian Angela Snowe is twenty-nine and a virgin when she propositions Josh. She only knew him by his sizzling reputation and glimpses from a distance. But his reputation promises exactly what she needs - a night of passion with no commitment. She'd read the books and knew what to expect from initiating a relationship based on sex. When he tracks her down, it takes some persuasion to convince Angela to work him in between her new classes and new busy social calendar. After all, she focused on personal growth, not starting a relationship. Worse, while he's providing charm and romance -- she really just wants him between the sheets. <br />Author Cathy Yardley gleefully switches traditional sex roles in THE DRIVEN SNOWE. While the sexy hero wonders how he became the woman in the relationship, Angela brightly breezes out the door maintaining the light hearted approach they agreed upon, leaving the reader in stitches. Josh is accustomed to being in control, and this relationship novice lifts that control right out of his hands. In addition, kudos for making a food processor romantic - this reviewer didn't think it could be done! Indeed, THE DRIVEN SNOW is one of those rare romances that is both fiery passionate and tenderly endearing. Smart dialogue and heated love scenes live up to high expectations in this Blaze release. Readers won't be able to put it down! Veryhighly recommended.	2001-11-13
1772901:US	49693975	R1QZ2DEKLGQA3T	0373226012	185493021	Saving His Son (Top Secret Babies, Book 2) (Harlequin Intrigue Series #601)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Very highly recommended	Lindsey Payne's worst fear has come true. Her son is missing. If he's alive, her son is six weeks old. Four calls have come this week, with only the words &quot;Your son is alive.&quot; She'd been so distraught that first week after he was born that her doctor had prescribed sedatives. She remembers someone trying to kill her at Maple Hollow's birthing clinic, but no one believed her. <br />Gavin McCord's life didn't have room for a wife or child. Lindsey respected his feelings. She had married once, and when she found out that her husband gambled and embezzled funds from his own law firm. When Lindsey divorced him and planed to testify against him, her ex-husband threatened her life. So Lindsey hired Gavin to protect her. And the last night before she testified, they had made love. Only Gavin hadn't wanted a relationship, and refused her the opportunity to tell him that she was pregnant. Now Lindsey must turn to him for help finding her child. <br />Lindsey doesn't know that Gavin had other reasons for not telling how he really felt. Reasons to try to protect her. But all that doesn't matter now that Gavin knows his son might be alive, might be the pawn of a vicious game. Gavin had sent Lindsey away to protect her, and instead of protecting her, sending Lindsey away left her vulnerable and unprotected. Now they must work together to find their son, and whether or not they find him, decide what to do about the still strong feelings they share for each other.<br />This heart-rendering tale of love, loss and fear will captivate the imagination and hold the reader in emotional hostage until the last page is turned. The characters are believable, intense, and memorable, risking everything to seek the truth. Intense and memorable, SAVING HIS SON is a keeper. Very highly recommended.	2001-11-13
1772980:US	49693975	R34VRAM5OCQC4U	0373790201	77840805	L.A. Confidential (Sexy City Nights)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Hot! Very highly recommended	Ken Harper's talent and ambition matched Lisa Neal perfectly, making him irresistible. Unfortunately, it was her own ambition that cost LIsa the sexy restaurateur, leading her to New York for the opportunity of a lifetime. She'd worked her tail off for years for an opportunity to become a player in the Hollywood scene, and when one of the country's hottest independent producers offers her a job, she immediately leaves LA and Ken behind. Too bad the hot producer found more satisfaction in snorting the drugs investor's money could buy than he did in making movies. And too bad Lisa's name was linked in the scandal. Now she's returning to the City of Angels with a promise of return to the world of film if she can convince Ken to help.<br />Ken's restaurant Oxygen continues to succeed. Not bad for a college drop-out from Blanco, Texas. His semi-celebrity status doesn't please him, but can't be avoided, even when it brings women like Alicia Duncan. Alicia wants an interview with Ken at Oxygen and will do anything to get it. Ken refuses to diminish the mystique of the restaurant with testimonials, personal appearances, or commercials. So when Lisa returns to town and convinces Ken to let her use Oxygen for a film site, Alicia wants to know why.<br />Every year Oxygen's anniversary reminds Ken of the loss of the love of his life. At the restaurant's opening he had an engagement ring in his pocket, believing Lisa felt the same way he did. Instead, she was gone to New York two days later with another man. &quot;Hit-and-run dating&quot;, as his best friend calls it, wasn't making him happy. Maybe if he helps her, Ken can finally get on with his life. So he agrees to let Lisa use Oxygen, for a price. Ken had been waiting to marry Lisa before he made love to her. Now he wants Lisa not just for sex but decadence, &quot;A wild time the likes of which we never got to have before.&quot; But the question remains if a night of sin and sex will be enough to satisfy them both.<br />Author Julie Kenner once again delivers a romance that turns up the heat! With the ambiance of Los Angeles for her background, LA CONFIDENTIAL is a sexy, dazzling romp. The single-mindedness of the heroine's decision to pursue her career goals never threats the hero's success, nor does she back away from her goals for love. Indeed, this reviewer is very impressed with the successful conclusion that never comprises the strength of these wonderful characters. In addition, Ken's best friend who happens to tend bar at Oxygen is a hoot! His knowledge of women's magazines gives the novel a touch of verve that is irresistible. LA CONFIDENTIAL has been added to the keeper shelf. Very highly recommended.	2001-11-13
1773110:US	49693975	R2NGK19PZP6WTJ	0373441304	958483146	A Rosey Little Christmas / Jingle Bell Bride	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Jingle Bell Bride? is Outrageous fun!	Dilly Fitzgerald is not your typical heroine. A bit overweight with frequently limp hair, she can outrope, outride and outcuss even a seasoned ranch hand. When she learns that her father bought her a husband will bull semen, Dilly walks out of the church minutes before the ceremony. She perceives the exchange as a betrayal; her ex-fiancé and father consider it a business deal. She can't believe her fiancé was going to marry her for bull semen and grazing rights. And her beautiful Christmas wedding had been arranged around tax breaks. Never again will she settle for no less than breathless grand passion that makes her toes curl.<br />Mick MacDougal takes over driving his brother's limousine as a favor when his sister-in-law goes into labor early. Things are slow at his ranch anyway, so he welcomes the diversion. The sacrifice of three hard years of work and his marriage have left the ranch in better shape, but they aren't in the black yet. All he'll need to do for his brother is pick the happy couple up at the church and drive them to their honeymoon destination. Sounds easy, until the big, blond, bodacious bride exits the church alone and offers to pay him extra if he'll take her to the planned honeymoon retreat and drive her all week. She doesn't know her father's offered to pay in bull semen for Mick to look after his little girl until she comes home.<br />Mick puts responsibility to his ranch and his help above his personal life. Securing bull semen will ensure stock that will keep his people employed and paid. But when Dilly discovers her sexy driver is no better than her ex-fiancé, she's going to be (angry). Mick quickly finds himself falling for this story woman full of beauty and fury. As for Dilly, she figures its pretty bad when one kiss with limo driver in a burger joint eclipses every bit of her previous sexual experience.<br />Author Jennifer LaBrecque creates a delightfully capricious romance in JINGLE BELL BRIDE? This unusual cast of characters, including a convention of nuns, a best friend who's enrolled in an internet assertiveness support group, and an ex-fiancé accompanied by a mariachi band add captivating spice to this outrageous story. Underlying the humor is an irrational, wanton attraction between hero and heroine that will make the reader's toes curl. JINGLE BELL BRIDE? comes highly recommended.	2001-11-13
1773193:US	49693975	R1CQUXM7B16E66	0373710224	311637670	Gideon'S Baby: The First Family of Texas (Harlequin Superromance No. 1022)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Remarkable! Very highly recommended	It's a guy thing. Men do not willing offer information to women than can feasibly lead to an emotional encounter; that is, until circumstances compel them to do so. Guys simply prefer logic to messy emotional encounters. So when Gideon First learns of his former girl friend's will, indicating that he's the father of her baby, his first reaction is logical. They always used condoms; the last time he saw her she would have been two months pregnant and didn't tell him; consequently, the baby cannot be his. Further, he's now engaged to a woman who believes sex should be saved for marriage. While she knows of his past, she's never been confronted by it. Consequently, it's best to protect her delicate sensibilities, and not explain about his possible paternity. <br />It's a girl thing. Women want the whole truth, including anything that was omitted to prevent a messy emotional response. Unlike men, they do not fear their emotions nor do they consider emotions a barrier to working toward a reasonable, logical solution. Lupe Amorado feels betrayed because Gideon was not forthright regarding his daughter. Lies by omission are still lies. Worse, Gideon's logical evaluation of the situation, especially when he considers allow the child's grandparents to adopt her, is abhorrent. Such logical thinking leaves Lupe questioning the morals and values of the man she wanted to marry. Her feelings of betray lead to her decision to give back his engagement ring.<br />Once again K.N. Casper boldly tackles some of the most delicate of human relationships in GIDEON'S BABY. With his unique story telling ability, Casper captures the heart of the differences in how men and women both think and communicate. Indeed, he captures the most basic elements of femininity and masculinity and exploits those differences, creating tension and passion in equal measure. A remarkable achievement, and a memorable story, GIDEON'S BABY comes very highly recommended.	2001-11-13
1773511:US	49693975	R2FVP2E1HCVDSQ	1930364091	544241060	The Search For Jack London	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Recommended	Eighty-three years after his death, Jack London's work remains in print throughout the world, and his popularity abroad vastly exceeds the accord he is given in America. Over twenty biographies have been written, yet the man behind the persona perpetuated by the press has remained elusive. Jerome Lofgren, however, brings both London and his wife to life with remarkable perceptiveness and intensity in his novel IN SEARCH OF JACK LONDON. <br />As Lofgren's personal life disintegrated around him, having come through divorce, bankruptcy and blindness, his spiritual life opened to new possibilities. As his questioned his purpose in life, he began a spiritual journal that led him to conclude that he is Jack London reincarnated. <br />Lofgren recounts his work with hypnosis, visions and research, drawing a web of intimacy seldom matched by most biographers. Interestingly, Lofgren focuses on the loving relationship between Jack and his second wife, Charmain Kittredge. Most biographers have overlooked the significant role Charmain provided as both a partner to London and a preserver of his work, journals, photographs, and so forth. Further, Lofgren seeks to correct many of the misconceptions of London, often perpetuated by other biographers. <br />Rather than a typical biographer, Lofgren's goal is to write \\"about different subjects, different matters, but there will be the essence of the strength from the London lifetime.\\" Indeed, he succeeds in creating a reflective work filled with the emotional insight sadly lacking in most biographies. <br />Regardless of personal beliefs, this contemplative, thought provoking view of America's most published author will provide unique insight into the life of Jack London.	2001-11-13
1773612:US	49693975	R3FCGG0UN91F2B	0373710259	170832815	True Heart: 9 Months Later (Harlequin Superromance No. 1025)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The ordinary becomes extraordinary	A month after she announces her pregnancy to her husband, Kaley Cotter returns to Trueheart, Colorado and the Circle C., the ranch her family has held for four generations. Instead of finding sanctuary, however, she finds the ranch in financial peril. Although Kaley has always been a silent partner and sent half of her schoolteacher's salary each month to help financially, it's not enough. Her brother has struggled for years to hold the ranch together, borrowing extensively from the bank and even from their neighbor, Tripp McGraw. Now he's ready to cut their losses so that he might follow his own dream. He's enlisted in the air force, and his letter stating that he's selling out to Tripp is probably sitting in Kaley's mailbox even as she pulls into the ranch. She hasn't the heart to tell her brother of her pregnancy when she announces her divorce; instead, she simply wishes him well as he departs. And when Tripp turns up, she sure isn't going to tell him of her impending motherhood, either; at least, not until it becomes self-evident. <br />Tripp sold his best cutter, a horse he began gentling when it was only an hour old, to finance the purchase of Circle C. It's a fair offer; he pays what the ranch is worth minus the forty thousand his neighbor borrowed in a last ditch effort to turn a profit. When he knocks at the door, however, he is shocked to find Kaley, the girl he loved deeply nine years ago. Even when he asked her to marry him back then, Tripp never understood what a pretty girl would want with an uneducated cowboy with a sliced up face. His own mother had proven the fickleness of pretty women when it came to ranching. Anyway, something that good was to too good to last and when Kaley postponed their wedding a second time, he'd seen the handwriting on the wall. So while she was in Europe, he sent the letter that ended their engagement. Two months later she met Richard, who she agreed to marry ten months later. Only now she's back and he holds a balloon notefor forty thousand dollars.<br />Filled with the struggles faced by ordinary people, TRUE HEART makes the ordinary extraordinary. Author Peggy Nicholson's storytelling abilities result in a beautiful tale about second chances and the power of love. Kaley's resilience in the face of overwhelming adversity coupled with Tripp's closely guarded, deep emotions result in delightful, memorable characters. The struggles of ranchers in the face of challenges from weather, the economy and day-to-day struggle to preserve their way of life likewise come alive with this author's pen, lending TRUE HEART a strong background. Very highly recommended.	2001-11-13
1774594:US	49693975	R2RII5OYGYSCDL	0821769332	558076650	In Too Deep (Zebra romantic suspense)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Highly recommended	Heiress Jenny Holloway renounced her father's money years ago, preferring to make her own way on her hard work and talent. Her first act of rebellion fifteen years ago hadn't gone so well. She married Tony when she was eighteen to escape her father's marriage to a much younger woman. When Tony became abusive, she allowed her father to rescue her and to pay Tony to disappear. Tony never knew he has a son. Now Jenny is opening a restaurant in Santa Fe, pleased to be a successful career woman and mother. She doesn't realize her ex has plans for her, or that her new love interest has been hired by her father for her protection.<br />Tony remembers Jenny as a good thing and looks forward to an opportunity to gain control to her father's money, not to mention getting under her icy exterior. But he's underestimated his ex-wife. While Tony may find a way to monopolize their son's emotions and make Jenny feel threatened, he doesn't know she has protection lurking in the background. When Tony killed Hunter Calgary's sister, escaping without charges, Hunter's obsession never lessened. Now he intends to not only exact his revenge, but to protect Jenny as well. But concealing his identity and motivation could easily prove counter productive as they grow emotionally close. Indeed, it doesn't take long for Hunter to know he's in too deep.<br />Once again author Janelle Taylor pens a fascinating read with IN TOO DEEP. While she returns to an often-used plot, the family dynamics as well as the tension of attraction between hero and heroine led the novel a startling realism. Indeed, Taylor also a knack for getting into the head of the sadist villain, brilliantly portraying his dangerous escalation of rage and cruelty. IN TOO DEEP comes highly recommended.	2001-11-12
1775883:US	49693975	R2QVK5C6M14S7Y	189323701X	587888133	I've Got Mail!	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Terrific -- Highly recommended	Since she was very little, Laura has been entertained by her dad's computer. Before she understood the words, Laura would go into gails of laughter over her dad's &quot;silly chatter.&quot; While she eventually came to understand bits, bytes and bugs, Laura was entranced most by the words &quot;You've got mail!&quot; Even her very own program filled with her favorite things couldn't compare to her heart's desire for her own mail. Then finally, by the time she's almost six, she knows enough to ask for her own email.<br />I'VE GOT MAIL! adds originality to the truism of that children love mail addressed to them. Author Robert Messinger captures that excitement and enthusiasm marvelously, bringing his text vivaciousness by writing from a child's point of view. I'VE GOT MAIL! is certain to delight young readers with its simple rhyme scheme; indeed, adults will appreciate the smooth rhyming verse that becomes a delight to read out loud. In addition, Messinger's verse is nicely showcased with illustrations by John Salerno. I'VE GOT MAIL provides ample motivation for repeated readings. Highly recommended.	2001-11-11
1775904:US	49693975	R19ZG6AEA8U8DL	0964527278	931175910	Gwyneth's Secret Grandpa (Family History Adventures for Young Readers, 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Highly recommended	Twelve-year-old Gwyneth enjoys her older brother Davie's company, especially because he takes her along wherever he is going. Davie even lets her come along with him and Beth, except at night on their dates. Davie has enlisted in the Marines to fight in World War II, which worries her. Before Davie leaves, their father has encouraged him to locate his grandpa, their mother's father, although secrets from the past have alienated their mother from their grandpa. When Gwyneth realizes Davie's driving away, she convinces him and her father to allow her to go along too. Unfortunately, Davie and Gwyneth neglect to ask about their grandpa's first name.<br />When Gwyneth and Davie arrive in the town where their grandpa lives, they realize they don't know his first name. They consult the phone book, but with twenty-nine people with the same last name, they quickly give their task up as futile. They plan to return, but with gas rationing, find they cannot return before Davie leaves for the war. Gwyneth doesn't give up, however, taking the bus back to her grandpa's town. She still can't find him the phonebook, and later takes her research to the local library when she convinces Beth to help in her quest. Sure enough, they find grandpa's address, but no one is home. Gwyneth's persistence is eventually rewarded when she meets her secret grandpa. The quest leads to lessons of honesty and forgiveness as she brings healing to her family.<br />Especially timely with our country at war, GWYNETH'S SECRET GRANDPA will touch the hearts of young readers. While our country does not currently sharing Gwyneth's concern for rationing and gas stamps, the glimpse into the challenges of the past comes as quite an enlightening experience. Further, author Annie Morris Williams carefully explores the delicate balance between remaining respectfully silent and speaking up for what you believe in. This intriguing look into our shared cultural heritage becomes a lesson in history and love, resulting in a riveting read. Highly recommended.	2001-11-11
1776517:US	49693975	R3DR2GAFURTN6P	0821772244	554714930	A Capital Holiday (Zebra Book)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Recommended	Presidential daughter Jocelyn Wakefield grows weary of living in a glass prison. She longs to escape, just once, to wander the tourist attractions of Washington D.C. and drink in the freedom most folks take for granted. Hosting too many state events, and being compared to Jacqueline Kennedy can have that effect. In a sudden burst of inspiration, Jocelyn enlists the aid of her grandmother, an old tunnel once used as part of the Underground Railroad, and transforms herself into an ordinary woman for twenty-four hours. Once she makes good her escape, however, a rather rambunctious dog trips up her plans. Literally.<br />The man who pulls her to her feet is political column writer Grady Tucker. In a time of the acerbic political humorist, Grady just pokes fun; bringing his targets with wit but without rancor. Yet Jocelyn fears that a representative of the very people she seeks to escape will blow her cover. A helpful passerby that remarkably resembles Santa Claus pauses to assists them. Soon Jocelyn finds herself grudgingly acknowledging her attraction to Grady. Unfortunately, her false identity makes any kind of relationship impossible. <br />Readers in need of a bit of entertaining fluff will find Janet Dailey's A CAPITAL HOLIDAY a lovely read. While impractical, and in wake of terrorist activities, entirely too dangerous, A CAPITAL HOLIDAY does live up to the need to escape and have fun. Main characters are captivating while secondary characters like the grandma and her butler add special zest. The lively spirit that pervades the novel pays its debt of gratitude when characters acknowledge &quot;Roman Holiday&quot; and &quot;Miracle on 34th Street&quot; for inspiration. Lighthearted and amusing, this comedy sparkles with starry-eyed holiday spirit, coming recommended.	2001-11-10
1776523:US	49693975	R3JM6XAZ1524CX	1931090009	363502057	Rapunzel meets Santa Claus in Hell	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Recommended	Tom Boyle adds new twists and delicious, riotous black humor to traditional fairy tales in Rapunzel Meets Santa Claus in Hell. In a plot bound anecdotal story telling, the traditional fairy tale becomes a modern day fantasy, eventually culminating in physical, spiritual, and intellectual confrontations in which these characters clash.<br />Rapunzel and Santa Claus' stories are recounted in alternating chapters until they meet in hell. Rapunzel begins by escaping her tower by securing her hair to the tower and climbing down, providing a complete reversal of the traditional tale. When she cuts herself free of the hair rope, walking off with a stylish bob, she also cuts herself free of the cultural baggage she characteristically would have carried otherwise. She eventually finds herself surrounded by feminists and lesbians in defiance of the patriarchy that had held her imprisoned. She even confronts her own parents and the witch that had locked her into the tower.<br />Santa Claus has many flaws never recounted by traditional story telling--flaws which the press is eager to flaunt. Ridiculous accusations by the press means he must take action, but when Santa hires his first female elf, things only take a downward spiral. Unable to keep his hands to himself, Santa is accused of sexual harassment and must close up shop. He leaves three clones in his place while going off to LA to make his fortune in the movies. Unfortunately, the type of movie he becomes involved with also leads to trouble with Mrs. Claus.<br />As the book rapidly progresses, questions of evil and hilosophical intent create tension and confrontations. As these childhood icons must confront perplexing intellectual and spiritual questions, the twists of plot will leave the reader breathless in the resulting chaos.	2001-11-10
1776917:US	49693975	R2VPNIFXKK0P0D	1583459510	148786846	Panache	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Brooks-Harris demonstrates a Panache of her own	Driven by a desperate need to help her son, Alexandra Walker gives into temptation and steals jewelry from her employer, Starbridge's Department Store. Her son Justin lies in a hospital on dialysis, waiting for the kidney that could save his life. Overcome by the wrongs of her actions, Alexandra immediately replaces the jewelry, but it's too late. A skuzzy security guard with dubious connections has her on video -- but only the first half of her actions, conveniently deleting the portion where she immediately replaces the jewelry. Now she must do as she's instructed or risk prison, consigning her son to death.<br />As part of her position at Starbridge, Alexandra attends a charity auction with sufficient funding to win an exceptional date with Houston's sexiest bachelor, Chase Thomas. The immediate attraction between Alexandra and Chase can't be ignored, even if he is the vice-president of the even more prestigious jewelers, Panache. Chase quickly realizes that Alexandra is the woman of his dreams. He doesn't know of her many secrets, such as the fact that security guard Spurgeon Brown forced Alexandra to steal a rare Egyptian ring from his company. He also doesn't know about her son Justin, because Alexandra's independent streak doesn't want him to think she needs monetary help for the child. Nor does she want to introduce her son to a man before she's certain he'll be around for the long term. <br />Nathasha Brooks-Harris pens a spectacularly lavish romance with PANACHE. The elegance of her writing, the dazzling display of wealth, and the blossom of love come together in an unforgettable tale, proving the old truisms that crime doesn't pay and love is priceless. Indeed, Brooks-Harris imaginatively portrays a sophisticated tale of intrigue and love that comes highly recommended.	2001-11-10
1777540:US	49693975	R1QW568SKCA08Z	0738858358	725821499	Voices on the Stair	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Voices of an old soul -- Highly recommended	Author Elizabeth Routen creates a stunning collection of 33 stories and a final poem in VOICES ON THE STAIRS. From the child dying of leukemia to the enraged man in Popeye's Chicken, Routen's carefully sketched short stories reflect life that surrounds us; the very life most of us just as carefully choose to ignore. Yet Routen brings those often ignored moments a depth and poignancy that forces the reader to pause, to examine, and to reflect. <br />Within Routen's tales are the people who surround us in grocery stores, on the street and in the night. Indeed, her characters strongly reflect humanity's common fears, desires, and disillusionments. \\"Requiem\\", for example, tells the story of lose and of learned lessons. A boy's father dies, and now another man spends time with his mother. This man who \\"would be a father by choice and not by chance. Such things make all the difference.\\" With the man, the child comes to understand what death is. And \\"To understand death and to deliver it are two entirely different things.\\" The results of death and poorly made choices are scars we can see, and those we cannot; and those scars that we learn from and those we do not.<br />Routen captures the essence of living in a melancholy collection that reflects wisdom beyond her years. Colors, textures, landscapes vividly come to life with flair and polish, becoming a microcosm of life. Routen's poetic voice moves with stately observation and recognition. Death, loss and sadness are embraced as a part of living with reverence and respect. Unfortunately, at times the reader may loose their way in some of the shorter pieces, as with \\"Sad Bird\\" when the purpose becomes lost in the subtlety. Nevertheless, the over all flow of the collection remains strong and true in its search for meaning. Indeed, evocative, thought provoking, teasing memory and dreams, VOICES ON THE STAIR comes highly recommended.	2001-11-09
1778956:US	49693975	RUFTDLEHJP1LI	0595197221	418507574	Jungle Baby	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Great story, poor proofing -- Recommended	From surviving the jungle of Brooklyn streets to the jungle of South America, this New York youth demonstrates that &quot;correct ethics&quot; is not getting caught. We follow our hero through his difficult childhood and him mother's bad choice in men to the day when he does get doing something illegal. The public defender gives the boy has two choices for staying out of jail: suicide or the Army. Our hero joins the Army, where he proves his financial genius for actions that would have previously stamped him a crook and a punk.<br />Overweight and Jewish, our hero finds himself at the bottom of the pecking order in an outfit of misfits. He learns the value of camaraderie, of defying the system, and how to work around the military's hypocrisy, eventually landing in Korea. As he learns the art of manipulating the system, our hero becomes not only the &quot;first Jew who ever had communion in St. Patrick,&quot; but also struggles with lessons of love and sexuality. Korea brings further manipulations of the system, and the realization of real danger. Now an intelligence expert, he proves just how absurd some of aspects of that assignment can be, from the jungle of Korea to the jungle of South America. <br />JUNGLE BABY demonstrates the best and the worse possibilities of publishing with companies like iUniverse. The author would have seriously benefited from careful proofreading, correcting misspellings, language usage, and punctuation errors. Despite these frequent errors, often several on each page, this shining new voice miraculously manages to overcome the flawed text to provide a realistic, humorous and enormously pleasing narrative. Indeed, author Elliot Nestle's coming of age tale will touch a broad spectrum of audiences with his religious, political, and military observations. With the perfect touch of levity, this narrative is surprisingly fresh and original. Recommended.	2001-11-08
1779469:US	49693975	R6ES65X8X161I	0967792932	884413333	Louie Larkey and the Bad Dream Patrol	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Adorable -- Very highly recommended	As young Heather sleeps, Louie Larkey and the Bad Dream Patrol walk through her house scaring away the bad dreams. Louie Larkie is Heather's newest teddy, with lavender fur and red overalls. Her older two teddies, Nilla and Bosley, form the Bad Dream Patrol. Zsa-Zsa, the white stuffed cat, remains on the bed with Heather unless called into emergency duty. One night, however, Louie Larkey and the Bad Dream Patrol can't make it from the kitchen and up the stairs in time. Even though Zsa-Zsa springs to their aid, Louie Larkey is the third stair from the top when dawn ends nighttime magic. When Heather finds him, she knows her companion has been protecting her dreams. <br />Louie Larkey and his delightful companions are guaranteed to keep the bad dreams away in Linda Kay's latest creation. Kay's gentle humor combines with Nora Hilb charming illustrations to create a story perfectly balanced between the fear of bad dreams and an imaginative solution. These wonderful teddy bears, always an icon of protection and comfort, come alive with Hilb's colorful inks. Indeed, the bad dream looks a bit like a colorful bearded dragon, just whimsical and charming enough to entice young readers as they overcome nighttime fears. Destined to become young reader's favorite nighttime tale, LOUIE LARKEY AND THE BAD DREAM PATROL come very highly recommended.	2001-11-08
1780163:US	49693975	R3OJXGQOL5F2G	0312981023	613674879	Naughty or Nice?	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Naughty Under the Mistletoe by Carly Phillips	Carly Phillips pens a short story at once incredibly sexy and incredibly pleasing. NAUGHTY UNDER THE MISTLETOE just goes to shop how a mistaken impulse under the mistletoe can lead to the love a lifetime. <br />Antonia Larson has been good for much too long. Unflagging dedication and performing to perfection have lead to a fabulous reward of senior associate to work in a new office. Naughtiness doesn't fit into the ladder of success. But now it's Christmas Eve, she's been assigned to a new office, and its time to play. Toni plans to to seduce Stephan, the firm's self-proclaimed bachelor.<br />Toni's elf costume only enhanced her charms, and Max can't resist what he sees. Never mind the most mind blowing kiss of his life was meant for his twin brother. Toni's mortification at kissing the wrong man comes second to the incredible chemistry they share. Now it's up to Max to convince her the kiss under the mistletoe can lead to something beautiful and lasting.<br />Author Carly Phillips has a knack for perfectly capturing the contradictions of love and career for successful women. Once again she creates a strong heroine who learns that love need not mean walking away from one's professional life. As the game playing escalates, walking a careful line between naughty and nice, everyone comes out a winner. Very highly recommended.	2001-11-07
1781253:US	49693975	R3JHCKPFXVND2D	0505524295	228868592	Gabriel's Fate	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Clashing beliefs -- Very highly recommended	Gabriel Caine was born in a family of revivalists, which he considered in the same light that Emma Craig considers clairvoyants. A strange bond to share, indeed, this disbelief in the gifts and beliefs of one's family. But Emma's prickly and non-trusting nature doesn't allow for men to enter her life, and Gabriel willingly accepts whatever bond he can find. Too bad the only other bond they share is a desire to locate murderer Ivo Hardwick. <br />With his roguish, dark looks, Gabriel's accustomed to women simpering and smirking over him. But Gabriel prefers a challenge, and Emma meets that challenge perfectly. Beneath that haughty exterior, he believes she has character and heart, which he intends to reveal. He also intends to uncover Emma's carefully guarded secret. He knows she intends to kill Hardwick, but he doesn't know why. Further, his under cover assignment to the Pinkerton Agency requires that he bring Hardwick back alive.<br />Emma Craig creates a fascinating and daring blend of spiritualism and the occult in GABRIEL'S FATE. By treating psychic gifts as blessings from God, the spiritual battles of these wounded and disbelieving characters lends strong motivation to the tale. The secondary characters, including a tarot card reading aunt, a Russian midget, and a Chinese pub keep the reader entertained with their antics and audaciousness. In addition, Craig's heroine breaks romantic standards with her concern for extra pounds on a figure the hero considers lush. Consequently, with powerful conflict and strong motivation, GABRIEL'S FATE comes very highly recommended.	2001-11-07
1781521:US	49693975	R3HH8L4TALV0CG	0505524503	376574179	After Twilight	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A stunning collection -- Very highly recommended	....<br />Authors Amanda Ashley, Christine Feehan And Ronda Thompson bring together their remarkable talent in AFTER TWILIGHT. Powerful emotions and overwhelming challenges unite these fabulously diverse tales. Dark desire, sensual response and incredible adversity makes this timeless collection come very highly recommended.	2001-11-06
1783065:US	49693975	R10RHFY9WY8THC	0821768417	795288565	Hot Blooded (Zebra Romantic Suspense)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Stunning -- Very highly recommended	Police find prostitutes murdered in the New Orleans French Quarter, strangled by a rosary with sharpened beads. The bodies are left with their legs splayed, their hands poised as if in prayer, a hundred dollar bill with the eyes blackened out left on the bedside table. In the background, the radio softly plays.<br />Radio psychologist Dr. Samantha Leeds returns to work after a disastrous two-week vacation in Mexico. She finds a message on her answering machine a admonition that she must pay for her sins. In the mail, she finds a mutilated publicity photo. Threatening phone calls to the radio station follow, all warning her that &quot;I know what you did...you're not going to get away with it....You're going to have to pay for sins.&quot;<br />Police detective Rick Bentz discovers the link between the serial killings and Samantha. As the threats continue, Samantha realizes the killer knows too much about her and must be close to her. She can't trust anyone, not even her sexy new neighbor Ty Wheeler, who holds secrets of his own. Then a woman calls claiming to be from Samantha's past; a woman Samantha knows died nine years ago. As killings become less random, moving closer to Samantha's inner circle, police warn she's becoming a target.<br />Fans of police procedural-thrillers will thoroughly enjoy Lisa Jackson's HOT BLOODED. This riveting, fast-paced plot keeps the reader guessing as Jackson casts her spell of psychological terror. The dark atmosphere and intense suspense, along with masterful characterization, result in a stunning conclusion. Look for the sequel next year, COLD BLOODED, which promises a return of some many of the characters from HOT BLOODED. Very highly recommended.	2001-11-05
1783381:US	49693975	RAEWWF7L2PXYW	0821769901	445457179	To Charm A Knight (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Her knight in rusty armor --Very highly recommended	When he bought Castle Avondel with an eye to renovation, medieval junky H. Walter Harrington, IV never expected to encounter an ancient curse that causes plaster to crumble as soon as it dries, or stones to fall no matter how carefully stacked. So he hires the proprietor/wizard of Any Time Any Place to sweep himself and his personal assistant Victoria Desmond into the thirteenth century so that he might end the curse. Unfortunately, the medieval text upon which they rely holds several inaccuracies, including the date they need, and the identity of the invaders of Castle Avondel.<br />Instead of correcting the curse, H. Walter finds himself kidnapped by Sir Ranulf, the lord who seized the castle lands and reputably killed the lord and lady of Castle Avondel. Now Victoria must rescue her boss by finding Aethelwyn's Amulet. The amulet is rumored to be magic, insuring protection to the castle. Unfortunately, in the thirteenth century women must have a knight to champion their cause, and the knight who presents himself to her aid doesn't meet the typical knightly code. While he might champion the virtues of honor and courage, he also needs a bath and he needs to polish his armor. Sir Perceval, as he presents himself, actually has his own agenda. His name is actually Gareth, and King Henry supports his quest to restore Castle Avodel to himself, the rightful heir.<br />Readers who enjoyed TO TAME A ROGUE will delight in Linda Kay's latest time travel romance, TO CHARM A KNIGHT. With unusual characterizations that ignore impossibly perfect romantic standards of beauty, this heroine and hero are convincingly real. Victoria's plain features and Gareth's rust armor insures characters that readers identify with as well as fantasize about. Yet Victoria's bold, sassy approach and her determination make her a terrific heroine, even as she clashes with subservient roles of medieval women. A delightful read destined for the keeper shelf, TO CHARM A KNIGHT comes very highly recommended.	2001-11-05
1783927:US	49693975	R2NEXKD8ENLHKM	0821769057	839884845	Stolen Hearts	Books	5	10	10	N	N	It will steal your heart -- Very highly recommended	There's something winningly whimsical and marvelously magical about the premise of the power of a hope chest and equinoxes winging characters across time to find healing and love. A hope chest found in the historic Chesterfield, now undergoing renovation provides the focal point for the Hope Chest miniseries. In Karen Fox's Laura Hayden's STOLEN HEARTS, the forth book of the Hope Chest miniseries, it's the chain to a stolen emerald necklace that wings the King of Thieves back in time to discover love.<br />The King of Thieves known as only Delagatto is a twenty-second century Robin Hood, who redistributes the wealth of those undeserving to those in true need such as orphans. At thirty-eight, he's growing tired of being a cat burglar, of researching his marks, planning his strike, and executing his theft. But honor ties him to a family legacy, and he cannot retire without fulfilling the pledge. Like his father and his grandfather, Delagatto vows to find and steal back the family heirloom that had been taken from their royal family a hundred years ago. His need to prove his skill, and the promise of the heirloom, lead to his passage back in time.<br />Planning to leave on the next train after completing her two-year contract as a maid at the Chesterfield Hotel, Emily Drewett receives a telegram warning her not to come home due to a quarantine. With no money and no place to go, she accepts a generous offer to spend the holidays in a luxurious room compliment of the hotel owners. The upcoming Christmas masquerade ball will provide the opportunity for her dress in borrowed finery and flirt outrageously with handsome young men. While it might be the emerald around her neck that draws Delagatto, it's her stunning green eyes that threaten his heart. As she disappears among the masked and bejeweled, Delagatto makes plans to purloin the jewel later. Unfortunately, he doesn't know the beauty's identity.<br />Laura Hayden's STOLEN HEARTS provides a terrific edition to the HopeChest Miniseries. Perhaps it would have benefited from an earlier release as it doesn't update previous characters. And Karen Fox's GRAND DESIGN indicates a renovation of the old Chesterfield Hotel, while Hayden indicates further deterioration. Those small details aside, STOLEN HEARTS is a marvelous read. While in previous books of the miniseries, it's the women who travel back in time, in STOLEN HEARTS it's the man who moves backward in time. And this is no ordinary hero, but a man of his own code of honor. An imaginative, sparkling edition to the Hope Chest miniseries, STOLEN HEARTS will steal the reader's heart. Very highly recommended.	2001-11-05
1784158:US	49693975	REH82FN7IK77B	1582006113	668389132	Coming to Terms [3 1/2 Diskette, HTML]	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Highly recommended	Lights crossing into his lane were the only warning that Jared Rutledge's life was about to take a remarkable detour. In town to secure technology from a rather eccentric inventor, Jared only planned to be there four days. When he awakened with his leg in traction, Jared had to accept that he'd be running his family's business from a hospital bed for a couple weeks. But gorgeous nurse Kate Lawson certainly compensates for any inconvenience. And she just might be the answer to fulfilling the unfortunate terms of his grandfather's will before he looses the family business. Too bad he doesn't know how to listen to his heart.<br />Independent and feisty, Kate Lawson is a successful single mother, having cared for her son alone since his kidney condition was diagnosed. Her ex-husband could accept neither an imperfect wife nor an imperfect son, and Kate felt mostly relief in his absence. Too bad sexy Jared Rutledge is too much like her ex-husband and father in his determination to always put business first. Kate's first priority is always her son, and when she realizes he needs a transplant, Jared's outrageous marriage of convenience proposal seems just the answer to her dilemma. That is, as long as she doesn't listen to her heart.<br />Although the plot for COMING TO TERMS is often used, author Jackie Kramer infuses it with her own unique challenges. These strong-willed characters confront their challenges head on as they struggle to overcome overwhelming situations. The relationship between mother and son is beautifully created as the child takes a vital role in the plot. Kramer captures the heart of a child wise beyond his years, lending his character a fascinating depth. Sexy Jared's determination to protect his family's company and the people is employee's is commendable, even as he struggles to overcome the urge to always put work as his priority. COMING TO TERMS is highly recommended.	2001-11-05
1787728:US	49693975	R1IQE7EDZU2A57	0966452054	846591294	Wake Up Dead	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Highly recommended	The future exists in the present -- we witness it every night while we sleep. Déjà vu is the bringing of these subconscious memories into conscious awareness. Because we have seen the future, when it occurs, we experience a feeling of repetition. <br />When researcher Mason Brooks invents a machine that allows the subconscious world of dreams to be brought into consciousness, he learns to manipulate the future for his own purposes. He satisfies his dreams of wealth, a beautiful woman, and power. However, his single-minded manipulations result in enslavement as he falls victim to the lure of predicting the future. His relationship with his girlfriend Monica deteriorates and he becomes obsessed with subverting the death he's dreamed repeatedly. <br />Only one element ties the dreams of death together -- a man named Paul Fontana, a younger, attractive man, and a complete stranger. Mason lures Paul into his dream research with promises of wealth. However, Mason didn't realize the added danger posed by bringing Paul into his home. The younger man is immediately captivated by Monica and becomes determined to win her away from the professor. <br />As tension builds, Christopher Bonn Jonnes creates fascinating philosophical and ethical quandaries. Yet this is not a boring cerebral treatise, but a fast paced thriller with deep psychological ramifications. WAKE UP DEAD is an unnerving page-turner guaranteed to keep the reader guessing until the last moment. Highly recommended.	2001-11-01
1788488:US	49693975	R2DYMVLY4Y721I	1929034806	31779683	Wait the Morning Light	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very highly recommended	In WAIT THE MORNING LIGHT, Bonnie Drury draws from the Irish philosophy that, no matter how bleak, things always get better with the morning light. But Leah Scarpelli is coming to the realization that the darkest times of life come in the dark hours of the night, and sometimes waiting for the morning can be almost impossible. <br />Leah covered a desperate secret of guilt and shame seventeen years ago, going on to live a nearly idyllic life with her beloved husband Nick, son Renny and daughter Erin. But the past has come back with a vengeance, in the form of Kane Lambert. And now he has the power to destroy Leah's world, quickly and savagely. And when he's done, no one in Leah's world will ever be the same. <br />Nick, the loving but frequently absent father and husband, doesn't realize the pain of loneliness he subjects his family to for the sake of a blooming career. But Nick has his own secrets, equally as devastating as Leah's, and dares not share the truth. <br />Kane Lambert is a famous but extraordinarily reclusive author writing under a pen name. Kane met Leah in college, taking her on a date that promises to destroy her life seventeen years later. Kane's secrets reveal treachery, frighteningly dangerous. Obsessed with Leah, Kane's determined to have her as his own, no matter the cost. <br />WAIT THE MORNING LIGHT forces the reader to reevaluate the meaning of family, friendship, and relationships of all sorts. Artfully combining the elements of intrigue, suspense, and love, Bonnie Drury reveals the ties that bind the heart. Be prepared for tears of grief and of joy as this wonderful novel tugs at the heartstrings. And truly, no matter how bleak life appears, WAIT THE MORNING LIGHT proves the beauty to be had when the dark night of the soul has passed.	2001-11-01
1790154:US	49693975	R2DY2BGUDGUP3S	0821769138	361610733	Wolf At The Door (Dublin Dreams)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Impetuousness at its best -- Highly recommended	Cindy Harris' miniseries Dublin Dreams brings together four penniless women who only have their anonymous benefactor in common. In addition to renovating their new homes and cultivating the central garden, their financial obligations are miraculously released by an unknown benefactor. In this second installment, a young woman estranged from her family invites in the WOLF AT THE DOOR.<br />Millicent Hyde's impulsive nature proves quite problematic. As a child an honest word spoken at the wrong time permanently alienates her father. As an adult, a false word spoken to protect herself from her vicious stepsister results in a fake engagement to Captain Alec Wolferton, the famous Sea Wolf. Now both situations threaten to come to a head as she tries to regain her father's favor and conceal the falsity of her engagement. Never mind she would prefer it to be real.<br />Alec arrives in Dublin with only one goal: to put Colin Rafferty in prison for the rest of his life. That would exonerate Alec and provide sweet revenge as well. On assignment for the War Office who, after fifteen years, now believes in the validity of Alec's claims regarding the incident between him and Colin while setting home aboard ship from Balaklava. Rafferty was stealing soldier's supply and selling them. Now he's guilty of treason and slave trafficking. So when an opportunity presents itself, Alec becomes &quot;engaged&quot; to Millicent, allowing him into the Rafferty's social world and future family. Somehow Alec must avoid guilt for using Millicent as bait, despite his growing attraction.<br />Once again the Dublin Dreams miniseries provides sweet entertainment in the talented hands of author Cindy Harris. The juxtaposition of the brash heroine and the tightly controlled hero results in snappy repartee, peppery characters and strong sexual tension. The motivation of revenge also takes on startling freshness as Alec rethinks his purpose in light of the youth, innocence and trust he finds in Millicent. WOLF A THE DOOR comes highly recommended.	2001-10-30
1790458:US	49693975	R3UZH25CKFL2UI	0373710097	706069711	The Word of a Child: 3 Good Cops (Harlequin Superromance No. 1009)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	It could happen to anyone - Very highly recommended	Detective Connor McLean caused more emotional turmoil for her than any one else in her life ever had. When he and a social worker unexpectedly knock at Mariah Stavig's door, accusing her husband of raping a small child, the doubts the detective left in his wake ended Mariah's marriage. The small child's words forever destroyed Mariah's belief in her husband. Without proof, the case was dropped. Following their divorce, Mariah cannot prevent her ex-husband exercising of his visitation rights. Although her daughter never exhibits any signs of abuse, Mariah remains emotionally torn even three years later. On one hand, she fears the detective was right and her daughter's in danger. On the other hand, she fears the detective was wrong, and she betrayed her husband. <br />When a student confines her sexual abuse as the hands of a fellow teacher, Mariah must fulfill her legal obligation to report the incident. Unfortunately, Detective McLean is assigned to the case, bringing back all those terrible days of fear and betrayal. As they work together to help the student, Mariah finds herself inexplicably drawn to the man she's blamed for the end of her marriage. Connor likewise feels many misgivings; even as he's drawn to Mariah, he also feels guilty. He's come to feel as though it's his role in life to destroy families, and he's beginning to consider making far-reaching career changes. Such deep self-evaluation makes completing his assigned task even more complicated. Worse, while he believes the student's been raped, he doesn't believe she's truthfully identified the perpetrator.<br />Author Janice Kay Johnson takes on a hard-hitting plot with grace in THE WORLD OF A CHILD. Never backing away form the most difficult and painful aspects of her plot, she also approaches the topic of childhood rape with sensitivity and insight. While a strange background to create for a love story, this subject with all its different aspects successfully furthers the plot, deepens the characterizations, and leaves the romance lover richly satisfied. These are believable characters that demonstrate admirable growth and sensitivity. Remarkable in scope, beautifully realized with plot and characterizations, THE WORLD OF A CHILD comes very highly recommended.	2001-10-30
1790957:US	49693975	R1XAP124BM46YF	1583459391	892609164	The Crooked Birdcage	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Terrific characters -- Recommended	Security expert Jon Nicolson's contradictions leave Samantha Burnes baffled. He seems at once attracted and repelled by her, and Samantha would like to know why. Certainly their unfortunate introduction didn't go well, but she's learned to appreciate noisy children and ragged dogs. Since Jon entered her carefully controlled life, it seems to have taken a dive into chaos. <br />Jon has a secret with the power to destroy his budding relationship with Samantha. Even as he knows he should withdraw, he can't seem to resist the allure of this feisty lady. As they approach the brink of destruction, their love shimmers and sparkles with newness and beauty. But with criminal forces coming between them, even love may have difficulty finding the way.<br />As an American, I get big kick out the setting for THE CROOKED BIRD CAGE. Planting tulips that bloom in September, language choices, and attitudes that vary so drastically from my ordinary expectations make for an interesting read. While the plot would have benefited from more fleshing out, the interplay between the characters was terrific. Interfering neighbors, well meaning parents and charming children combine with a strong hero and heroine to create a entertaining read. THE CROOKED BIRD CAGE comes recommended.	2001-10-30
1791185:US	49693975	RFDSJ44CDN051	0505524511	19340774	Let Down Your Hair (Faerie Tale Romance)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A heady blend of eroticism and innocence	It seemed so simple. Roland Connor intended wreck revenge on the woman his enemy holds dearest. Daniel had debauched his sister, leading her to her grave. His plan is perfect. He'd seduce the innocent woman destined to be Daniel's wife. He'd teach her harlot tricks, and maybe late one night, when she lies in her husband's arms, rather than calling out her husband's name, she'll call out Roland's name instead. He didn't know she'd teach him to love.<br />Kept like Rapunzel in her tower, far removed from the mundane necessities of life, Rachel Summerville accepts her aunt's dictate that her only job in life is to be pretty and to marry well. Despite his misgivings, Rachel plans to marry the man her aunt selected for her. Then she meet's one of her aunt's guests. Roland's insolent smiles and hopeless importance awakens the woman within. Even knowing that he's a gambler, a horse thief and a con man, Rachel allows him to teach her the pleasures of life. She descends a rope to his waiting arms, and together they walk the streets of San Francisco, attending the symphony and tasting the forbidden. Even as she gives Roland her heart, she knows she will marry another. <br />Once again author Linda Jones creates a naughty, sensual romance that will hold readers entranced. Combining the faerie tale elements of Rapunzel with the horrors of Jack the Ripper, LET DOWN YOUR HAIR becomes a tale both uncommonly fresh and sharply original. This sensual journey of a young woman's awakening sexuality combines eroticism and innocence in a heady blend. As Rachel learns to let her hair down, they share a joint lesson in life and in love. LET DOWN YOUR HAIR is a delightful read, coming highly recommended.	2001-10-30
1791205:US	49693975	RP23A3PZXH4TA	0451456890	614878310	The Witches of Eileanan	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Outstanding! Very highly recommended	Witches and magic have been outlawed in the Celtic land of Eileanan. Nevertheless, brought by dragons, the foundling Isabeau lives in the valley hidden by the Dragonclaw with her guardian Meghan. Isabeau learns the old ways, including the gifts of speaking with animals, working with elements, and the knowledge of herbs. Her sixteenth birthday, the day on which acolytes are Tested for acceptance into the Coven as apprentices, brings about many changes.<br />Civil war is coming to the land of Eileanan. The sea dwelling Fairgean wish to reclaim the land. Also, the ruler, called the Righ, married a mysterious woman called Maya the Unknown. It soon seemed as if a spell had cast on the Righ, as Maya began taking over all his duties. Soon he began to disdain the Coven of Witches, those who brought knowledge and guidance to his father. Eventually Maya used her influence to convince him to destroy the Witches in a dreadful day called The Day of Betrayal. It was then that the keybearer disappeared and the Towers were brought down. Now she breaks the pact with the dragons, challenging and killing them as well. <br />Isabeau must set out on a quest to help join the three pieces of a key, while her guardian Meghan visits the Dragons. While with the Dragons, Meghan discovers Isabeau's twin--a woman opposite her in every way. Yet they are mysteriously linked, and physical pain for one becomes shared between them.<br />This first book in Kate Forsyth's series 'The Witches of Eileanan' provides a terrific start to the series. Forsyth introduces the multifaceted of the tale with skill, creating strong, immediate interest in the reader. Her quick plot and strong characterization promises an addictive series. Indeed, Forsyth's skill at characterization dazzles as she manages to create sympathy for the evil Queen. Further, her unique twist on dragon lore is both original and inventive. In addition, Forsyth brings strong Wiccan influence into the novel, with a deep respect for the craftand old ways. By combining that which is familiar within the fantasy genre with her own unique voice, Forsyth creates the beginning to a promising and exciting trilogy. Very highly recommended.	2001-10-30
1791721:US	49693975	R3UFDK1RAXXNSN	0373484399	184820266	Calamity Janes	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Ambitious dreams -- Highly recommended	Sherryl Woods continues this delightful miniseries, The Calamity Janes, with a single title release by the same name. Five friends share an enduring friendship, begun in high school, self-named for their penchant for broken hearts and troubles. Though their lives are widely divergent now, these women are still as close as sisters, despite their infrequent contact. In this forth installment, top Denver attorney Emma Rogers struggles with pressures from work, family and the past.<br />Competitive Emma is on a career fast track despite a divorce and motherhood. Too bad she rarely has time for dinner with her six-year-old daughter Caitlyn. Her ex had assumed she'd sacrifice her career to be a stay at home mother after a failed birth control fluke. But Emma hadn't cooperated. She hadn't excelled in law school only to walk away. Despite her ex's manipulations designed to sabotage her career, including the ultimate of betrayals, Emma was steadfast in her goals. The trouble is, years later she can't help wondering if she's making a mistake to allow the nanny the pleasure of raising her daughter.<br />Enjoying their first vacation in two years, Emma and Caitlyn return to Winding River, Wyoming for Emma's class reunion. Her immediate antipathy to the town's new newspaper publisher Ford Hamilton only results in friends and family's speculation and hope that she'll return to the slower paced town for keeps. Indeed, she's surprised to realize Ford easily matches the excitement she's only found before in court. But she's very uncomfortable that he's as adept at zeroing in on the hidden motives and the hearts of matters as any good prosecutor. She'd best find a quick defense before she gives away her heart and her future.<br />In this single title release of the Calamity Jane series, author Sherryl Woods dazzling gift for storytelling excels, as references to other books in the series enrich the narrative without inhibiting the flow. Heroine Emma's struggle with her inward expectations lends depth, giving voice to many career mom's concerns. Hero Ford Hamilton's persistence and perseverance in spite of Emma's protestations makes for enduring reading. Readers will also find themselves smiling at grandparent's efforts to charm their grandchild complete with pony and kitten. Very highly recommended.	2001-10-29
1793337:US	49693975	R309WAUWDQ1FC8	0312979088	945953471	Unforgivable	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Secrets and shadows -- Very highly recommended	A man filled with secrets and shadows, \\"Spooky\\" Silas Koole has watched Katie Malloy from a distance for years. Ever since the day she trusted him enough to ask for help, Silas has kept tabs even as she married another man and established a quiet life in the backwoods with her veterinarian husband Ben. When the townsfolk realize that there's a serial killer in their midst, they immediately assume that Silas must be guilty. After all, an illegal search links him to many of the killings, and produced graphic pictures and text that indicate his guilt. Worse, his supernatural ability to empathetically connect to the illusive killer has him doubting his own innocence. <br />Ben has loved being Katie's hero from the day when she was nine and brought in a damaged kitten until now. When her mother died in a shocking suicide, he'd found the child a place to live and waited for her to grow into womanhood. He married her at eighteen, loving the innocence of the woman-child. At twenty-seven, she finds herself as dependant upon Ben as she had been as a child. But she feels terribly guilty for not being the woman he needs. Especially when Silas can stir womanly needs Katie has never acknowledge, and seems to know about her than she knows about herself.<br />Author Tina Wainscott exchanges her usual romance for an over the top suspense novel that will keep the reader avidly turning the pages. Rich characterization and a fluid plot result in a memorable tale of love and murder. Indeed, UNFORGIVABLE delivers a graphic, insightful look at the thin line that separates the good from the evil that lurks within all of us. The truly disturbing context and careful manipulation of people and events gives the reader an unexpected and frightening look from behind the eyes of a killer whose actions are unforgivable. Wainscott's prose reflects an empathy for each of her memorable characters that makes UNFORGIVABLE a must read! Very highly recommended.	2001-10-28
1793693:US	49693975	R2SB7GNVYVMREE	0821770918	507284609	No Place For A Lady (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A must read -- Very highly recommended	Molly gave up the green isle of Ireland years ago to become a lady's maid when fate intervened in her dreams. In service to a selfish, spoiled woman, Molly endures careless abuse at the hand of her lady. But fate intervenes again when Lady Elizabeth becomes pregnant as the result of a tryst in a carriage with a mysterious man with strikingly green eyes. Now she will forsake the glitter of London to become a rancher's wife in the wilds of Colorado. Molly holds her own dreams of Colorado, the land where her father disappeared many years ago.<br />The journey is uneventful until the final leg when highwaymen overtake their carriage. The Lovejoy Gang robs them, and murder several witnesses, including the driver who dies in Molly's arms. Lady Elizabeth is kidnapped by Lovejoy to be held for ransom. Molly doesn't know the driver Slim is actually her father, and his well-meaning aid results in great confusion. As she lays wounded nearby, Molly and Lady Elizabeth's identities are reversed. With a concussion and dosed with laudanum, it takes a while to correct the mistake, by which time she's married to Dirk Ballinger, Lady Elizabeth's betrothed.<br />The high mountains and passes of Colorado are NO PLACE FOR A LADY in Deb Stover's latest achievement. Webs of deception and delightful conundrums result in a passionate romance with marvelous depth. The secondary plots weave a complexity that reflects and strengthens the main plot with powerful characterizations and startling details. Indeed, Stover is a writer of graceful imagination and intense passion, creating masterful work romance lovers will find enchanting. Sexy and irresistible, NO PLACE FOR A LADY comes very highly recommended.	2001-10-28
1793756:US	49693975	R2JSX4TB8V5GRG	0821768816	973400007	Her Leading Man (The Dream Maker)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Add this one to your keeper shelf -- Very highly recommended	Film director Martin Tafft grows increasingly disillusioned with the industry. When he began in 1904, he believed that the brilliant creation of motion pictures would be the salvation of humanity, spanning the differences between people to allow them to see the commonalities. Instead, the industry deteriorates into a slough of immorality and decadence. He still has hopes that when &quot;talkies&quot; come into their own actors and actresses will be forced to spend their evenings learning their lines rather than wildly carousing the town. <br />Martin's newest leading lady Christina is made of a different ilk than most actresses seeking stardom. She sees acting as a means to an end. Rejected from scholarships because she's female, she intends to earn sufficient funds to pursue her dreams of a medical degree. To protect her reputation and run interference, she brings her Grandmother to the set as a chaperone. The elderly Mrs. Mayhew, Gran, provides marvelous comic relief with her high-spirited ways and obnoxious remarks. Christina calls her an Egalitarian because &quot;she treated everyone like dirt.&quot; Although Christine prides herself on her independence, it helps to have someone with a reputation for hardhead ness and a nasty disposition on her side.<br />Martin's latest project is an Egyptian epic based on the bible. But when his loathsome lead breaks his arm trying to ride a camel, Martin finds himself stepping into the part. Despite the strong chemistry between Martin and Christina, he's not prepared for her out spoken ways when states that she wants to make love with him. Rather than flattered, he's outraged because he considers her perspective to be repetitious of the deterioration of the morals of the industry. He doesn't perceive her outspokenness to be a natural part of her independence and honesty. Now they must act together in the roles of lovers, and as the heat increases on screen, it likewise threatens a conflagration off screen. Especially when their passion takes control, but the moralistic Martin wants marriage and the determined Christina wants a medical career.<br />The entire Dream Maker miniseries has been a huge success, culminating in THE LEADING MAN. Indeed, the early years of the motion picture industry with its rapid changes has provided a fascinating background beautifully captured by author Alice Duncan's talented pen. Further, Duncan has a flair for creating both unconventional and unorthodox characters that really grab the imagination. Christina, like each of her predecessors, possesses strength of character and a gentle vulnerability that makes her markedly appealing. Martin, who's been a background character of each book, finally gets the story he so richly deserves. His concerns regarding the moral character of his industry span the decades, making him a surprisingly contemporary hero. Very highly recommended.	2001-10-28
1794090:US	49693975	R1E9EGS0ZATOP5	0373168950	305277718	C.E.O & The Secret Heiress (Just For Kids)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A charming tale -- Highly recommended	Three weeks before her planned New Year's Eve wedding, heiress Brittany Lewis cancels when she suddenly realizes she's not in love. She knows the repercussions of her decision will explode all around her. It is, after all, the third engagement she's ended in four years. She doesn't, however, expect her father's ultimatum. She must join her father's company for six months, showing up at nine and going home at six. She's going to face the challenge of business and give her life a worthwhile direction.<br />Brittany faces an unexpected challenge when she arrives for her first meeting of the boss. A fortuitous open door and happenstance leads to an opportunity to use her skills to redecorate the JUST For Kids day-care center instead of inhabiting some stuffy office. A little quick thinking and Brittany Lewis becomes B.J. Smythe the artist. Now she can prove her skills and her values on her own terms, before revealing her true identity and blowing stuffy C.E. O. Matt Terrell's opinions of Brittany Lewis out of the water. <br />B.J.'s exhilaration quickly gives way to apprehension, however, as she grows emotionally involved with Matt. He's not going to tolerate the dishonesty of her charade. But with the unveiling of the child care center slated for Christmas Eve, B.J. believes she can maintain the illusion of her identity long enough to really make a difference for the company and for herself. As her presence begins to fill the spaces in Matt's world that he hadn't known existed, Matt finds himself drawn into the magic B.J. creates. But issues of trust reach into a painful past for Matt, and B.J.'s apprehension is well founded.<br />The premise of THE C.E.O. &amp; THE HEIRESS, while not unusual in genre fiction, is carried off with great flair. Author Mary Anne Wilson offers a surprisingly convincing plot that provides this spoiled heiress direction and growth. As Brittany puts her creative skills to use, she also finds she's proving her value not only to Matt and her father, but most importantly to herself. As Matt's misconceptions and prejudices are challenges, the reader can't resist being drawn into the story and rooting not only for the successful romance between Brittany and Matt, but also successful end for a spunky youngster that keeps the story from becoming too predictable. Highly recommended.	2001-10-27
1797937:US	49693975	R15TJBQXVA8AHD	1589390199	326313836	Undercover	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Sizzling! Highly recommended	On an ordinary day in February, Cassandra &quot;Casey&quot; Steele takes an normal flight of London only to meet with the most extraordinary of circumstances. Britt Black, owner of Black Industries International, a corporate giant in environmental and space technologies, dozes nearby. With the plane only half full, they have first class to themselves. Then an odd question posed by passenger quietly catches both their attention. The man asks if they have enough fuel to bypass LaGuardia fly to Chicago. Shortly thereafter, three men in suits hijack the plane. Britt and Casey thwart the hijacking attempt, but not before Britt's injured. <br />An electric connection immediately sparks between Britt and Casey. As he recovers from his injuries, Cassey sits at his side at the hospital, and later insists he come home with her for a week before resuming his hectic life style. The week deepens the bond between them, assuring their hearts are irretrievably engaged. Yet other issues separate them. Not only do they have lives in separate parts of the country, but Casey also has a dangerous secret. She's an investigative reporter who stalks drug lords like the men who hijacked their flight. Britt accidentally discovers her secret identity, and lends his resources to aid her quest. Together they risk death to bring down drug lords that control shipments between Chicago and LA. <br />Author Barbara Starmer weaves a crafty balance between romance and danger in UNDERCOVER. This fast paced thrilled grabs the reader's attention from the beginning and never lets go, weaving a deft tale of murder, complicity and downright evil. The chemistry between this outstanding hero and heroine keeps the pages sizzling as they struggle with not only their feeling but shared danger. Exciting, thrilling and riveting, UNDERCOVER comes highly recommended.	2001-10-24
1798564:US	49693975	RMOA2WZB5SZIR	037376393X	272065240	Taming of Jackson Cade (Men of Belle Terre) (Silhouette Desire, No. 1393)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Unexpected twists -- Highly recommended	Jackson Cade has to be beyond desperate to enlist the aid of veterinarian Haley Garrett. Only the mad screams of his prize stallion and the lack of any known remedy forces Jackson to call Haley. Shocked when the call comes, she disregards her elegant black dress, trading heals for practical boots and gloves, as she rushes to the emergency. Even Jackson's hostile attitude isn't enough to dissuade her from the stallion in obvious crisis.<br />Now Jackson has nightmares of that night and seeing Haley crushed between the mad horse and the wall, lying on the floor beneath flaying hooves. Combined with the memory of undressing her, as he prepares Haley for a doctor's examination, he can't get her out of his mind. But Jackson long ago vowed to avoid professional women like Haley, despite his screaming hormones. <br />Author BJ James provides some unexpected twists in THE TAMING OF JACKSON CADE. These unusual, memorable characters will capture the reader's heart and imagination, lingering long after the last page is turned. A delightful read, THE TAMING OF JACKSON CADE comes highly recommended.	2001-10-24
1798594:US	49693975	R1PBZJV0P3Q08V	0373763972	154007366	Jacob's Proposal (Tall, Dark & Eligible) (Silhouette Desire, No. 1397)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Sensual - Very highly recommended	Devotion to the woman who treated them as a mother motivates three handsome bachelors to find wives quickly in Eileen Wilk's Tall, Dark, &amp; Eligible miniseries. Ada's experimental treatment is exorbitantly expensive, but they'll do anything to prolong her life. To pay for her treatment, they must fulfill the rules of their trust. Jacob West, nicknamed the Iceman, promises to be the first brother to marry. Now he just has to find a bride. Too bad the first woman he asks turns him down. But his new assistant is promising. <br />Claire McGuire, the woman rumored to have driven Ken Lawrence mad, accepts the temporary position as Jacob's assistant. Maybe the mansion's outstanding security system will keep her safe. Memories of the scandal, the gossip, and the trial haunt her. But knowing events could repeat themselves keeps her ever vigilant. She finds her boss to be a highhanded, irritatingly sexy man, and now she can't help wondering just how much danger she's living with as well. <br />The debut of Tall, Dark, &amp; Eligible miniseries JACOB'S PROPOSAL demonstrates author Eileen Wilks' remarkable skill. With a deft touch she combines romance and danger, forcing her characters to reevaluate their priorities and the their feelings. Sensuality plays a strong role, entangling these characters in memorable play of emotions. Very highly recommended.	2001-10-24
1799246:US	49693975	R35WTKOZV8D94Z	037371016X	160835800	Emily's Daughter (Harlequin Superromance No. 1016)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Secrets, pain and redemption -- Highly recommended	Eighteen years ago Emily Cooper and Jackson Talbert connected in a way that was profound. At twenty-one, he was struggling with his family regarding entering the family business. At seventeen, she was struggling with the embarrassment of her mother's recently announced pregnancy. Together they found mystery and magic beneath the moon, loving one another deeply and passionately. Their last night together, they ran out of condoms, reusing one in an effort to be responsible. It wasn't enough.<br />When Emily learned of her pregnancy, she repeatedly tried to contact Jackson. All his promises of phone calls and return visits disappeared in the light of day, leaving her alone to cope. She didn't know his mother was terminally ill, and as she struggled to cope with birth, he was learning about death. Lost in his grief, Jackson never knew that Emily was trying to reach him.<br />Emily's mother reacted strongly to her teen daughter's pregnancy. Harsh words and judgment pushed Emily into a decision she would regret for the rest of her life. She gave her daughter up for adoption. She never told anyone of those days, and the wounds are still fresh. Even fresher when she's working as a doctor and Jackson unexpectedly arrives at the hospital to demonstrate his new software. As all the old feelings come rushing back, Emily's secret holds the power to destroy their relationship yet again. Or provide the healing they both need.<br />Author Linda Warren creates a poignant tale of family, forgiveness, and redemption in EMILY'S DAUGHTER. While the plot might be a bit predictable, the play of family dynamics and the resolution of the past result in poignant, memorable read. Emily Cooper is flawed, admirable, beautiful heroine as is Jackson Talbert an equally flawed, worthy, memorable hero. These are characters that believable, that readers can identify with, and that remain in the heart and imagination long after the last page is turned. Highly recommended.	2001-10-23
1799290:US	49693975	R2Z71X7JDCN9EX	0738827037	509076518	A Man Worthy	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Recommended	A MAN WORTHY by Cassandra Ormand provides the romance lover with a lovely romp perfect for light entertainment. A humorous and sensual novel, A MAN WORTHY is a delightful tale of mistaken identity, love, and surprises.<br />Chelsea Bowden has the perfect life: a financial analyst job at her father's company, wealth, and a gorgeous fiancé. But her love life lacks that spark of attraction that keeps love always smoldering in the background. That is, her life lacks that excitement until a case of mistaken identity lands her in the Australian outback with Thad instead of a luxury hotel in Sydney with Lowell Blankenship III.<br />Lowell arranged the Australian trip without consulting Chelsea's opinion. He wanted something new, different and adventuresome rather than their customary trip to the French Rivera. What he got beat his imagination by a long shot. But certainly what his vanity and self-centeredness deserves! When Perry Bowden, Chelsea's father, descends upon her hapless fiancé demanding to know where his missing daughter has gone, the heat is on.<br />Once Chelsea's identity is sorted out, she accompanies Thad's group riding camels and exploring Australia's outback for two weeks, rather than returning to Sydney. She's strangely attracted to Thad, and determined to prove her fortitude despite the hot, dry conditions and her lack of preparation. And Thaddeus Nolan is an enigmatic man of the desert, beyond the range of any man she's ever known. She knows it'll be hard to return to civilization because she'll always compare every man to Thad, especially Lowell.<br />Thad is equally determined to keep her there, against his better judgement, because he can't seem to tear himself away from the pretty woman who can ride camels and demonstrate remarkable spirit despite her highborn background. This blossoming protectiveness toward the remarkable Chelsea is quite unnerving. She had made him question every decision he'd ever made, especially his nomadic lifestyle.<br />The heat of Ormand's writing matches the heat of the Australian outback. Yet the timeless quality of the writing also invites the reader to share in the delight of Chelesea's surroundings, relaxing in the beauty and warmth. Tender and enduring, A MAN WORTHY is an old-fashioned love story including sexual tension and a fascinating landscape that mustn't be missed.	2001-10-23
1800329:US	49693975	RH8NREGNSOQLL	0373980027	912628663	Lou Dunlop: Private Eye (Crosswinds)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Highly recommended	Louis Dunlp prefers the work of Raymond Chandler, specifically Phillip Marlowe, a tough private eye, to the studying Eleventh-grade English. Marlowe didn't worry -- Lou worries a lot and about everything. Daydreaming in English class results in the teacher's unwanted attention. The teacher moves him from the window seat to an empty seat on the second row. Unfortunately, tthe desk had belonged to Cathy McKenna. Cathy disappeared in November, and no one has used it since. Graffiti on the desk and classmate Jessie's suggestion lead to Lou investigating the missing student. Teaming up with Jessie, Lou follows the leads that result in more excitement than he bargained for.<br />Author Glen Ebisch creates a challenging mystery in LOU DUNLOP: PRIVATE EYE. The myriad suspects and motives keep the pace moving as Lou learns the secrets behind his classmate's disappearance. Lou himself is a fascinating character as his alter ego encourages or criticizes his actions. Emotionally vulnerable and filled with self-doubt, most teens will identify with him as they find him both humorous and sensitive. An excellent read, LOU DUNLOP: PRIVATE EYE is highly recommended.	2001-10-22
1800657:US	49693975	R32WH26TZ7TS0R	0970177194	623500932	Daniel's Ride	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Very highly recommended	Daniel eagerly awaits a promised ride in his older brother Hector '63 Impala convertible &#8220;complete with spider hydraulics and gold wire wheels.&#8221; Together they celebrate the first weekend of summer vacation. They turn up the volume on their music and cruise, transforming the Impala into &#8220;a funky barrio carnival ride.&#8221; They join the cool cars cruising the beech before visiting the cousin. When the ride is over, Hector promise the car to Daniel if he finishes high school and plans to go to college.<br />Author Michael Perry brings his street-savvy writing style to children&#8217;s books in DANIEL&#8217;S RIDE. With the lyricism gained with his musical background, and an intense understanding of what motivates children, Perry creates a fun, hotrodding tale of sun, brothers and cars certain to delight young readers. Crisp, believable, readable dialog combine lends the story vibrant energy and promise. Very highly recommended.	2001-10-22
1800818:US	49693975	R8ULG896LOFOS	0743300637	62362630	Light Play: Book One of the Light Play Trilogy	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Very highly recommended	Guilt and fear weigh heavily on Justin Sacchara's shoulders, but Daniel Vizar's not burdened by personal convictions, having long ago overcome such a consciousness. Vizar has come to believe he's actively molding the future, and the end justifies the means. The fact that their researcher Caroline Denaro inadvertently contaminated herself with some kind of rogue gene, and, despite the side effects, translates to profit. <br />Denaro infected herself with a virus previously restricted only to plants. The implications are astounding. The experiment to blend plant and animal genes, however gone wrong, worked. In Denaro's case, however, as her physical body deteriorates, so does Denaro's mental condition until she becomes psychotic. <br />As the virus progresses in her body, Denaro separates from her physical body and walks the halls of Genetechnic Industries. She fears the day she won't be able to reenter her body and her spirit will forever be doomed to remain in limbo between existence and nonexistence. If she expends large amounts of energy, Denaro can exhibit some physical presence. Denaro had known that her successes were big, and worth far more than she was being paid. So she had secreted her notes in her home. Now she's terrified that they will terminate her body without curing her, leaving her in this nonexistence forever.<br />Dr. Richard Lockmann worked with fungus and bacteria all day. He easily recognizes the contamination that led to the flaw in Denaro's experiment, and that which effected her. Unfortunately, by the time he understands what's happening to him, Denaro's already passed the virus to him. Now Genetechnic Industries wants Rick, and will do anything to get him. And Rick will have to decide where his loyalties lie and how far he will go to preserve humanity.<br />LIGHT PLAY reads like one of the best of Stephen King's novels, with emotional depth, a fast paced plot line, and believable characters. N.D. Hansen-Hill does not back away from the mostprofound moral and spiritual implications, challenges the very mores on which our society is built. The grit and the reality leave the reader with an unsettled feeling, as this is one of those gruesome tales that could happen. Very highly recommended.	2001-10-22
1801292:US	49693975	R5BUL8VSF5O6A	193084705X	474318393	The Last Slow Dance	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Poetic prose -- Very highly recommended	&quot;Life doesn't just happen to us. There is one spectacular moment when it happens for us. It happens to change us somehow, to pick us up just when we're heading in the wrong direction...&quot; And therein lies the magic of THE LAST SLOW DANCE by Mary Gauden Hughes. This talented author captures that searing magical moment on which all of one's destiny hinges, drawing it into every moment of the novel in a lovely musical harmony.<br />When Mary Livingston enters Michael's life, everything changes. His house becomes a home, his girls happily sharing their days at the supper table. Mary claims she's only passing through, a writer gathering stories, searching for that one special story to tell. <br />As Mary loves writing, so does Michael McCain loves his music, dreaming of breaking into the big time. When he at last reaches his dream, as successful star Abby Rhodes invites him along to open her shows, Michael must reevaluate his life, his priorities, and his dreams.<br />THE LAST SLOW DANCE flows with a poetic grace, the language's lyricism mesmerizing the reader. THE LAST SLOW DANCE moves like a great river with hidden currents of meaning below the reflective surface. If you enjoyed James Waller's BRIDGES OF MADISON COUNTY, you'll love THE LAST SLOW DANCE with its positive ending and inspirational message. Very highly recommended.	2001-10-22
1803008:US	49693975	R38P3BM0IO3LXO	0373168934	915504307	Baby By The Book (American Baby)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Babies and books -- Very highly recommended	Rand Barclay believes himself to be headed for a doomed life as a cantankerous bachelor until he develops case for his carpenter. He didn't expect a lady carpenter, and he certainly didn't want a pregnant one. Not that he has anything against pregnancy. He's well rehearsed having practically raised several younger sisters and their offspring, but a pregnant woman shouldn't be doing all that physical labor. But then, physical labor while he's working in the same office is good when she has such a shapely behind. Too bad pregnancy usually means there's a man in the picture. When Susan goes into labor in his office, however, she confesses her single hood. <br />Susan arrives at Rand's prepared to work. She needs this job. The death of her father the year before through her world into a tailspin, and meeting Gary at the hospital provided even more long-term grief. When Gary disappeared leaving only a note alluding to a clinging vine and a parasite, Susan used the money he left to pay the bills and grieve. Worse, he left before she could tell him that she's pregnant. Now her money's running out, the baby's due in a few weeks, and she needs to move. If Rand will give her the job, maybe she'll manage the challenges ahead. Then her baby comes early, she has no health insurance, and the apartment she's rented is unlivable. Rand wants to be her knight in shining armor. She wants to be independent. They both want to be a family, but neither has the courage to risk admitting it.<br />As author Kara Lennox shows in BABY BY THE BOOK, babies write their own terms when they enter this world. While I was much younger than our thirty-old heroine when I had my first child, I still could swear Lennox stole a page from my diary. Alone, afraid, and overwhelmed with love with this small, perfect life, Susan's a believable mother with an imperfect past. Susan proves that the first diaper and the first bottle can be quite intimidating if you've never handled either until having your own child. Rand's an imperfect hero, as well. Sexy, well-meaning without a clue about women expect how to happily live around them, Rand lacks the easy social graces that characterize most heroes. Still, he's wonderful. Indeed, this is a heart warming romance that deserves to go on the keeper shelf. Very highly recommended.	2001-10-20
1804279:US	49693975	R1EM1607RCODGS	0373763964	813670180	Her Boss's Baby (The Fortunes of Texas: The Lost Heirs) (Silhouette Desire, No. 1396)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	From misfortune to joy - Highly recommended	With a childhood plagued with emotional abuse and guilt, Jonas Goodfellow distances himself emotionally from the women in his life. He was an illegitimate child, the cause of his mother's disastrous marriage to his cruel stepfather. Yet somewhere beneath the pain, the desire for a family must still lurk, because when he was established as one of the missing Fortune heirs, he couldn't resist the impulse to meet his estranged family. Unfortunately, someone tampered with the bottle of wine he brought along to celebrate, and he landed in prison, accused of attempted murder.<br />Tara Summers remembers all too clearly the night five years ago when Jonas bailed her out of jail. She never expected to return the favor. But when word came of the disastrous reunion, she immediately rushes to his aid, in addition to orchestrating the necessary arrangements for him to continue his business while confined to Texas. Tara's determined to use the opportunity of sharing a hotel suit to make Jonas see beyond the twelve years that separates them. She's grown up and she wants him. It's too bad that when Tara gets him to bed, she also gets a pregnancy and a man who fears commitment. <br />Author Cathleen Galitz continues The Fortunes of Texas miniseries with HER BOSS'S BABY. The characterizations are a delightful contrast. Tara is a lovely combination of youthful exuberance and mature wisdom. Jonas is a damaged man, who must grow beyond the belief that the word family is synonymous with the word viper. Indeed, emotions rule this tightly crafted plot, resulting in a novel that is at once intense and beguiling. HER BOSS'S BABY comes highly recommended.	2001-10-19
1804524:US	49693975	RDHW7QINN5V0A	0738867306	153461031	Change of Heart	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Move over Bruce Willis -- Very highly recommended	Nothing is ever routine with Navy Intelligence operative Joshua McGowan, who lives by his own code of honor. His newest partner considered him as passive as an old head of lettuce until the bullets began flying and Josh did his Bruce Willis imitation. In the flicker of a moment, Josh goes from lettuce to a bloodthirsty killing machine intent upon his mission. But when the heat of the moment passes, Josh can't help wondering how he gets into these messes.<br />Josh McGowan began his service in a Special Forces outfit, where he interfered with the function of the KGB making an avowed enemy of Colonel Mironov, the KGB controller for many Soviet operatives Josh encountered in the field. During the Cold War, Colonel Maronov had been a thorn in the side of Josh's boss. With the end of the Cold War, enemies become allies as Colonel Mironov promises the location of Valeria Konstantinova with the provision Josh is the man to bring her in. Valeria knows the location of Dr. Otto Jones, an explosive expert who is aiding the Communist Party in its effort to overthrow Russia's new democratic leadership. The CIA freed Valeria from prison and smuggled to the Siberian coast. Now Josh must bring her back to the States.<br />Valeria Konstantinova is a serious threat to the security of the Communist Party. If she were to share what she knows with western intelligence agencies, the Party would be set back a hundred years. During her short service to the KGB and directed by Mironov, she slept with more than twenty of the most powerful men in the Kremlin. A whore for the KGB, she is determined that her service is done, and she wants nothing more than to slip away with the man she loves. Unfortunately, Mironov plays a dirty game, planning to double-cross the United States and use Valeria to resurrect Communist Russia.<br />Novelist Jack Allen presents the sleuthing world with CHANGE OF HEART. An action packed thriller, CHANGE OF HEART keeps the heart pounding rapidly and keeps the pages turning swiftly as it moves from the murky depths of Soviet water to exotic Tokyo to the heart of the Kremlin. Espionage, betrayal of friend and country, and power provide strong motivation for this plot-driven spy thriller. Josh is no James Bond, with women clutching his elbows and supreme self-confidence. Instead, he's a refreshingly original hero with attitude, vulnerabilities, and no love life. The Joshua McGowan series will continue wit the following upcoming releases: AN INNOCENT AMONG THEM, WIDOW OF CALCUTTA and THE LENNOX CONSPIRACY, as well as BREATHE OF THE FLESH. Outstanding within its genre, CHANGE OF HEART comes very highly recommended.	2001-10-18
1804640:US	49693975	R3G25MSHWLFWHS	0373710194	167185603	Substitute Father: Marriage of Inconvenience (Harlequin Superromance No. 1019)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award of Excellence	Veterinarian Luke Duncan knows he is a soft touch for orphans of the four-legged variety. But the day a small boy steals his shopping cart, he learns that he's an equally soft touch for orphans of the two-legged variety. Now he'll do anything to help Brian, Hannah and Troy find the stability that was sadly taken from them when their mother died. Unfortunately, social worker Kealey Fitzpatrick may have other ideas about what's in the best interest of the children. Their blind date was disastrous, and her assignment to the case may prove even more so.<br />Kealey wishes she had the ability to take life with the openness and spontaneity that she sees in others. But years of being shuffled between foster homes taught her to guard her feelings and desires carefully. Doggedly erected barriers prevent anyone from drawing close, yet somehow Luke manages. With his gentle understanding of three orphans, Luke slips beneath her defenses. Despite his best intentions, however, Luke cannot provide the children with a two parent home; which, of course, is in their best interests. When Kealey finely understands just what Luke can provide, it may be too late to keep him and the three orphans together without resorting to a marriage of convenience. <br />While the Marriage of Convenience miniseries suggests a rather predictable plotline, author Bonnie K. Winn fashions a character driven romance with heart touching originality. From the shopping cart escapade that brings Luke and the orphans together to Kealey's newly discovered enthusiasm and creativity, each moment becomes charmingly poignant. Further, Luke's small gifts and loving treatment of Kealey, despite her clear cut goals of ending the marriage at a specified time, demonstrate his own remarkable abilities to risk his heart without expectation, but always with hope. Very highly recommended.	2001-10-18
1805193:US	49693975	R1JA6XD1XIXXFS	0373710143	477345764	My Montana Home: Big Sky Country (Harlequin Superromance No. 1014)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Recommended	Robert Maxwell Senior's sweeping power and control over not only the town of Paradise Corners but also his own family led to rebellion in daughter Cassie. She married the man of her choice, poor choice it might have been, to spite Robert, and now raises her son as a single mother. Determined to run her own life and make her own decisions, she declines to visit the family ranch more than once a month or so, despite her son's love for his grandfather.<br />With an absent father, young Zack withdraws into himself. He doesn't understand why his father doesn't keep promises of visits and phone calls. Despite her training as a social worker, Cassie finds she cannot heal her own son. When Hannah dies, the surrogate grandmother leaves yet another hole in the lives of Cassie and her son. Now they will have to move again, since the grandson Andrew Morris plans to sell the home and the cottage they rent. <br />When Cassie literarily drops into his arms, Andrew quickly finds his hands full in more than one way. Despite the protective walls he's built to ensure his emotions never become overly engaged, he can't resist this fiery, sexy woman and her young son. But the past holds a power over Andrew that only he can shake, and only if he's willing to risk more than he ever has before. <br />MY MONTANTA HOME brings about a satisfying conclusion to the Big Sky Country miniseries. The ongoing conflict between family members reaches a climax that brings about a few surprises and new beginnings. Further, Cassie's growing self-honesty regarding her relationship with her family, and especially with her sisters, proves both poignant and understandable. Most importantly, her bold statement of love, and willingness to continue her life and growth despite its reception will strike a sympathetic cord with readers. Unfortunately, author Ellen James was challenged to resolve a huge number of threads, and the conclusion feels a bit rushed. Nevertheless, MY MONTANA HOME comes recommended.	2001-10-18
1805835:US	49693975	R3PEROBCK80E3Z	0373710178	948890897	Wife by Deception: Twins (Harlequin Superromance No. 1017)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Exhilarating -- Very highly recommended	Camryn lives for fun and thrills. While motherhood proved to be far more difficult than she anticipates, Camryn believes her baby Arianna is just the ticket to stardom. Arianna just might be the gimmick she'd always needed to break into show business big time. After all, everyone says that soap opera produces would take just one look at a picture of her with the baby and write them into a script as mother and daughter. But after dropping the baby off at her identical twin's home, Camryn's dreams go up in a conflagration when she crosses the centerline.<br />Doctor Kate Jones was always the responsible one of the twins, even when they were growing up in the Methodist Children's Home. She shudders to think that her beloved niece could fall victim to that same system. Determined to raise the child rather than allow her to be shuffled around between foster homes or dumped in an orphanage, it takes Kate six months to gain enough courage to even consult her lawyer. She hesitates to contact the father, whom she's only heard of by first name, because Camryn said that Mitch never wanted the child. Although Mitch has joint custody and is searching for his daughter, he doesn't know his wife is dead.<br />Mitch eventually tracks Camryn to Kate's home and shocks Kate with his arrival. Panicked at her weak legal position, Kate allows Mitch to believe she is her twin. Her reticence to reveal her true identity results in Mitch kidnapping her. Until she can be certain that he's not the dangerous man her sister described, Kate will do anything to protect the baby. Fortunately, Camryn never told her husband that she had a twin. But Mitch is not the violent man Camryn painted him to be. Instead, he loves his child and desperately wants to build a life with her. Further, Mitch can't help the incredible attraction he feels for Kate. It's only a matter of time before he realizes the &quot;changes&quot; in his wife aren't changes at all, but something altogether different. <br />Author Donna Sterling creates a marvelous conundrum in WIFE BY DECEPTION. Sterling writes with a lilting grace, deftly weaving elements into a tapestry of emotions and deception. WIFE BY DECEPTION skillfully captures the fear of the loss of custody of a child for either parent. Further, the beauty of the ocean, the flavor of Cajun cooking, and the Louisiana bayou life is vividly realized, making WIFE BY DECEPTION a zesty treat. Very highly recommended.	2001-10-18
1806205:US	49693975	RKHH57M6N1UF	0373790090	636758513	Thirty Nights (Blaze, 5)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award of Excellence	Research scientist Hunter St. John learned to put his feelings in cold storage years ago. A difficult childhood, betrayal by a mentor, and terrorist threats has taught him to meet the world with a cold, logical demeanor. Then he brings Gillian Cassidy to his island, planning a little fun and revenge, only to unleash a boiling torrent of emotions. It was supposed to be so simple. Gillian would become his sex slave for thirty days in exchange for protecting her father's reputation. He plans to release the brazen woman concealed beneath the serene exterior, gaining her absolute surrender, and then he plans to send her away. He'd set her on fire while he remained cool and analytical. But his plan backfires.<br />Concert pianist Gillian has always been a woman who rules her emotions rather than allowing her emotions to rule her; that is, until she comes to Hunter's island. Part of the lure must have been the left over feelings and curiosity of her adolescent years. Of course, she also comes to protect her father's reputation, not that he deserves it, because without her acquiescence Hunter will discredit her father to the world. It doesn't take long, however, for her motives to shift to her own desires and fantasies. As Hunter teaches her things about herself, revealing the dark, hidden secrets of her psyche, Gillian yields willingly and enthusiastically. Too bad she's promised only thirty days. <br />Author JoAnn Ross combines the fantastic elements of fairy tales with the passionate elements of fantasy to create a sizzling delight in THIRTY NIGHTS. She's the unawakened virgin, he's the scarred recluse; together they are magic as they satisfy fierce desire and tumultuous emotions. With a plot as entrancing as the characters, THIRTY NIGHTS will keep the pages turning. Indeed, with a stunning display of sensuality, passion and danger, THIRTY NIGHTS is everything readers should expect from Blaze. Very highly recommended.	2001-10-17
1807413:US	49693975	RQPYYST20H2LE	0738826561	619661812	The Dance	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An endearing romance! Very highly recommended	Staci Layne Wilson brings her knowledge of horses to her first contemporary romance, THE DANCE. With the engaging animals, charming plot, and warm spirituality, readers will find this novel difficult to put down.<br />A horse whisperer, Tamara Woods lives a simple philosophy of life by taking one day at a time and remaining ever mindful of her faith. Then Blake Jefferson brings his cantankerous horse Raven Rocket for help. A widower, Blake's bitterness has caused him to turn against his God. He works himself and his horse too hard which causes the burnout that lands Raven Rocket in Tam's care. He asks for her phone number and love takes care of the rest.<br />Demonstrating that her ability to write inspirational romance easily matches her ability to write the macabre, Staci Layne Wilson creates a warm romantic read with her debut romance novel, THE DANCE. Spirituality subtly overlays this delightful romance, while not overwhelming the plot. Indeed, Wilson's love of animals and remarkable characterizations provide a profoundly satisfying reading experience that comes Very Highly Recommended.	2001-10-17
1807423:US	49693975	R1ITIWGL3Z3N4K	0743300947	606886047	A Need to Know	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Highly recommended	Fishing had always been one of Fred Scott's favorite past-times. Living in Destin, Fred heads to the water one Fourth of July holiday weekend, looking forward to few hours on the water before joining his family for the holiday celebrations. But Fred doesn't return from this trip; instead, he's murdered in cold blood when he witnesses two hunter/killer Soviet submarines lurking in the water off the Florida Panhandle. Now authorities are left to wonder why those submarines would be in the Gulf.<br />As American military leaders speculate on the purpose of the subs location, Commander Dean White finds himself drawn into the intrigue. White suggests that the Soviets seek an American testing area. Initially he doesn't know that the Soviet have suspicions of the Stealth bombers, and seek proof. As espionage and counter intelligence mingle, author Dan Murr spins a tale of intrigue, devolving technology, and danger. With richly developed characterizations and questions of loyalty, he leads the reader into a world where every fact is questioned and each character functions on &quot;a need to know&quot; basis. <br />A military thriller based on a true-life incident in Florida, A NEED TO KNOW raises frightening questions regarding what the public needs to know about threats to the United States. Although these events occurred during the Cold War, the questions raised are especially relevant to savvy readers reflecting on current world events. Murr writes with startling insight into the political and civilian lives affected by even the smallest occurrence. Indeed, in light of recent world events that have brought to the forefront the appropriateness of media to present all that they know, as well as our government, these are questions all readers should be reflecting upon. Riveting and chilling, A NEED TO KNOW comes highly recommended.	2001-10-17
1807637:US	49693975	R29YR8CGEQSJPI	0373710186	492990857	The Fire Within: America's Bravest (Harlequin Superromance No. 1018)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award of Excellence	Posttraumatic stress syndrome makes a living hell of Dr. Reed Macauley's life. To survive its devastating effects, Reed has spent eight years alone, distancing himself from emotional entanglements that might cause his symptoms to resurface. But refurbishing a house and pouring himself into work is no substitute for the needs of his heart. Once again the results of emotional encounters provide a sharp reminder when Reed gives into his heart one New Year's Eve. A beautiful night of passion with the incredible Dr. Delaney Shaw results in a horrendous flashback. Now he refuses to risk her safety and well-being by allowing her close again. <br />Delaney doesn't fear the symptoms of PTSS; she's trained for such events. Despite her best efforts, however, Reed continues to push her away. A frustrating situation indeed, exacerbated by the fact that he's the only man she's ever wanted to pursue something permanent with, and he's rejected her outright. Even as their jobs bring them into close proximity, even when he saves Delaney's life from food poisoning, Reed continues to push her away. Then a small accident, a trip on the stairs over a small box that contains precious gifts, and Delaney knows he loves her as much as she loves him. Now nothing, not the Red Devil nor the furies of hell, will make Delaney give up on this tortured man.<br />Author Kathryn Shay creates a deeply moving tale of struggle and survival in THE FIRE WITHIN. The torturous pain that results in PTSS is explored with probing and compassionate prose, providing the reader with information that never bogs the narrative, succinctly moving the plot through both painful and beautiful events. These are believable characters, with the foibles and strengths that make them sympathetic and memorable. Furthermore, the secondary plot likewise echoes the challenges faced by firefights following traumatic events, and includes a strong cast of characters.<br />Readers unfamiliar with the trauma of PTSS will find this novel enormously enlightening. Those who enjoy a tender, moving love story will be richly satisfied with this remarkable novel. For readers who require that extra edge and are willing to explore the deeply challenging issues of life, particularly now in the wake of the NY bombing, THE FIRE WITHIN will certainly light their fire. Very highly recommended.	2001-10-17
1807859:US	49693975	R3IOVLTM9YZIPT	0962706485	575296426	Getting Life	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award of Excellence	Author Julie Shaw Cole creates a painful, joyful, enthralling journey toward self-discovery in GETTING LIFE. Told from the first person point of view, she draws the reader deeply into the horrific and frustrating world of nursing home care, seen through the eyes of thirty-five-year-old Emily Mason. Emily spends seventeen years in a wheel chair, watching the play of light on rooftops seen through the window of the nursing home.<br />When her mother died in an accident, Emily went to live with a tender uncle and an abusive aunt. When these relatives die, Emily comes to live at the nursing home. Her life seemed to be characterized by abuse and neglect, as the people around her assume that because she cannot speak she cannot think. When a devastating accident results in a hospital stay, Emily meets Dr. West, a woman who will change her life. For the first time, someone speaks to her, rather around her or about her. For the first time, her humanity is recognized.<br />It takes three years and remarkable discipline for Emily to free herself from the nursing home. As she struggles to communicate, to read, to become mobile, and to learn the skills she needs to live independently, her lessons become lessons for the reader about the strength of the human spirit and the weakness of human perception. She confesses her own prejudices and fears, thereby forcing readers to reevaluate themselves. Indeed, readers will find their most basic assumptions challenged; from the accessibility of sidewalks to the way we see those who are different from ourselves. A must read for all caring human beings, GETTING LIFE comes very highly recommended.	2001-10-17
1810040:US	49693975	R2P3EU1DTAB7IC	0373259522	674306999	Treat Her Right (Men To The Rescue)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Not your ordinary heroine -- Very highly recommended	Paramedic Zach Grange knows what he needs in a wife and in a mother to his four-year-old daughter Dani. His brash new neighbor, Wynn Lane does not meet his expectations in any way. He needs a quiet, unassuming, domestic, soft spoken woman that does all those frilly, frippery female things Dani's going to need. Wynn is outrageous, outspoken, and, as his neighbor, out of limits. Only an inch short of his six feet, she speaks before she thinks, acts before she considers the consequences, and presents herself as one of the guys, except that her sloppy sexy clothes and glimpses of skin drive him wild. Never has he known a woman like Wynn, and Zach hasn't a clue what to do with her.<br />Wynn boldly admires Zach, never making any secret of her desire. Indeed, the first day they meet he catches her audaciously checking out his crotch the way most guys check out a woman. She looks at him with tenderness, humor and hunger, and makes no moves to conceal her attraction. Further, Zach made her heart boil the minute she spied him. Worse, when she watched him tenderly brush his daughter's hair and put it up in a pony tale, she was irretrievable hooked. She's never felt this way before, preferring to hang out with the guys rather than dating them. She doesn't see a problem with their living across the street from one another, but she does know she's not a petite beauty like Zach's first wife. <br />Hammocks and hot tubs make for sexy, fun encounters in Lori Foster's TREAT HER RIGHT. Wynn's amazon woman appearance defies stereotypes, and her impetuous, out spoken honesty makes a mockery of ordinary courtship games. Sizzling emotions and stunning encounters in addition to creative characterizations, including Wynn's equally extreme parents, make for a marvelous reading experience. TREAT HER RIGHT is destined for the keeper shelf. Very highly recommended.	2001-10-15
1810132:US	49693975	R20MZ31499BTGA	0373271808	359784525	Right Side Of The Law (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Deadly secrets and evil intentions	Three years ago she awoke naked in a brass bed to man claiming to be her husband. He says her name is Kristen Harris and she was eluding police when they met. Supposedly, a boating accident resulted in her amnesia. Her husband Salvador Maland radiates danger and unpredictability, and she is terrified of him. So late one night Kristen takes her small daughter and flees the so called island paradise. With a picture of a man called Blu Dufray, Kristen begins her quest for her true identity.<br />At twenty-five, the man nicknamed Blu Devil is the youngest fishing fleet owner in Algiers. When a nun pulls a gun on him, demands information from him, commands him to strip, then leaves him lying on a brick courtyard, Blu vows to find her. He doesn't know that she had hoped he would recognize her. The woman he nicknames Angel turns up much quicker than he anticipates, however, when Blu finds her hiding in a building he owns. Intrigued by Angel's story, he promises to help her find answers. He especially wants to know why a man like Salvador Maland, someone he doesn't know, has pictures of him.<br />Through the French Quarter and into the Louisiana bayou country Blu and Kristen pursue deadly answers. Blu finds himself mesmerized by this desperate woman seeking her identity. Blu quickly realizes that Salvador had used drugs to control Kristen's memory, and that she is also much younger than she had been led to believe. With her child carefully hidden, now she must believe in her instincts and put her trust in a devil if she wishes to stay alive. <br />Author Wendy Rosnau pens a remarkable suspense with THE RIGHT SIDE OF THE LAW. Drug induced amnesia results in a fresh plot that culminates in a desperate, surprising conclusion. Dangerous information and a network of deadly crimes keep the tension tight as secrets are unveiled. Kristen proves herself to be remarkably resourceful and resolutely strong as she comes to understand the past and the evil that has manipulated her. The Blu Devil brings his own dangerous charm and unforgiving past to the tale, underscoring the deadly game they play. Kristen and Blu prove the beauty of love when it's on THE RIGHT SIDE OF THE LAW. Very highly recommended.	2001-10-15
1810189:US	49693975	R3EP3U8OKSIPS1	0373790163	201749030	Heat Waves (Sexy City Nights)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	"Sexy City Nights" series -- Very highly recommended	Sensual erotica achieves a fabulous satisfaction with Janelle Denison's HEAT WAVES, part of Harlequin's Blaze line. This super sexy, blazing hot novel provides a steamy romp with its heated plot perfectly blended with the a healthy dose of love.<br />Radio talk show host Erica McCree presents herself as a seductive siren during her evening talk show Heat Waves. But off the air, she's been celibate so long she almost qualifies for virgin status. What she lacks in knowledge in first hand experience, Erica compensates with a heated imagination and a wealth of information gleaned from books. Despite this lonely state of affairs, Erica's satisfied with the career and life she's created, cherishing her fierce independence and self-reliance. Then a regular late night caller changes all that.<br />Wealthy CEO Ian Carlisle has developed an obsession for a woman he's never met. Her sexy, sassy, seductive voice lures him from his harried world, and makes the hot Chicago nights even hotter with her candid talk about sexual topics. Erica's publicity photo on the radio's Website belies the sexy vixen, revealing a woman with vulnerabilities and a soft, feminine side. Now Ian wants to know which side is the real Erica. As his orgasmic voice sets the airwaves on fire, Erica agrees to risk meet him in person. Soon she finds herself swept away with Chicago's hot summer nights.<br />When slow seduction leads to a heated frenzy, Janelle Denison knows how to deliver. Each teasing line builds to captivating crescendo certain to please. Despite the heavy sensuality, HEAT WAVES is also novel with a remarkable plot as Erica reveals herself to be a sultry temptress by night and volunteer angel by day. Likewise, Ian's struggle to overcome the grief of the past, which allows tremendous character growth, not only creates a not only a very sexy, but also a very sympathetic character. Further, this reviewer must admit that HEAT WAVES left her both highly charged, and greatly satisfied. Very highlyrecommended.	2001-10-15
1810396:US	49693975	R37ICCYLUJR7IW	0373168969	55647401	Born Of The Bluegrass	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Delicate second chances -- Very highly recommended	They have only two things in common. They both have a gift to see beyond the obvious to the value beneath the surface, whether it is horses or people. They also share a son. But Reid Hamilton doesn't know he has a son.<br />When the baby Trey came into the Hamilton's lives, they teetered on bankruptcy and grieved the loss of the eldest son. Younger son Reid had assumed the reins, attempting to save the Hamilton stable. But it was the child that saved the family, giving them hope. Reid believes the child to be his nephew, born out of wedlock following the death of his oldest brother. Little does he suspect the child is his own, conceived one surreal night when passion balanced death. <br />For five lonely years Reid raises the child as his own. Then the sight of a fantastic horse lures Reid into not only bring the horse home, but the groom who cares for it. She possesses a loose control, an understated passion that blows his own measured life into chaos and leaves him with long forgotten desire. Despite his intuition, however, he never links this woman to the woman of his fantasies.<br />When Danielle Tate saw the four year old boy streaking across the yard, saw the birthmark on his thigh, saw his father, she wanted to be part of their lives with a desperation born of a mother's love. She didn't know what to do. The beautiful child has a family that loves him and takes very good care of him. She is only a horse groomer that had one miraculous night of splendor that led to pregnancy and loss. <br />Now Dani has a second chance -- this opportunity to work at Hamilton Hills, to remain close to the man and the child of her heart. Never will she willing walk away from this glorious opportunity to watch her child grow. But she surely cannot hope to hide her secret forever.<br />BORN OF THE BLUEGRASS is a splendidly woven tapestry of finely created emotions. The novel is filled with fierce intensity and naked vulnerability, thickly wrapped with reflection, regret and possibility. The carefully measured prose maintains a cautious tension, keeping the weave even and intriguing. Moreover, the background of the Kentucky bluegrass, together with the scent of sunlight and shadow, intertwine in a novel that entrances the reader. An incredible and touching read, BORN OF THE BLUEGRASS comes very highly recommended.	2001-10-15
1810565:US	49693975	R1QDBQYFE4P75F	0373168942	437898113	Between Honor And Duty (Men Of Station Six)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Evocative - Very highly recommended	Firefighter Logan Strong carries a heavy load of guilt following the death of his partner in a building fire. His guilt distances himself from the other firefighters at his station as he attempts to protect Ray's reputation. Ray had been hailed a hero by the station and media, but Logan knows that Ray's death wasn't an accident. Worse, he feels responsible for letting Ray walk out on the roof that collapsed beneath his feet. Now Logan tells himself that he owes it to Ray's widow to help out in any way he can. But he can't deny to himself that he feels a lot more than brotherly affection for Ray's widow.<br />Ray had been little more than a shadow in his family's life. His wife Janice carries her own burden of guilt. If only she had been a better wife, she could feel the depths of grief others seem to expect. But Janice thought they had time, years stretching ahead to resolve their distance. Indeed, she feels a stronger connection to Logan than she ever did her husband as he steps in to help around the house and with the children. Logan inspires a sense of excitement, a touch of the forbidden. And he makes her feel beautiful and desirable for the first time in ten years.<br />Somewhere BETWEEN HONOR AND DUTY exists the chance for Janice and Logan to love in Charlotte Maclay's latest installment of the Men of Station Six miniseries. With startling freshness, Maclay creates a boldly fresh heroine. For example, Janice proves her feistiness in seeking her bold resolution to her deceased husbands debts at a Los Vegas casino. Having shared her fate, to some degree, by being left with bills while the ex absconded, I can't help being impressed by Janice's handling of facts as she resurrects them, piece by piece, right down to the purple thong under her husband's front seat. Likewise, hero Logan's loyalty to his partner's memory is commendable, as he protects the deceased father's image in the eyes of his children. Indeed, Maclay proves her deft ability to weave deep emotionand fierce passion into a believable, strongly evocative read. Very highly recommended.	2001-10-15
1810593:US	49693975	R36TY703TUE8OS	0373790147	109701824	Sleeping With The Enemy	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award of Excellence	FBI agent Jared Romaine devoted himself to deep cover assignments until he was accused of murder. The government claims the proof against him is rock solid. In the three years he's been in hiding, the best of the agency has been unable to track him down. Somehow, this rogue agent still manages to maintain tenuous contact with his beloved sister without revealing his location. Even though the government wants Jared, not his sister, they use their connection to watch and wait for Jared to surface.<br />FBI agent Chase Bracken has made a name for himself by breaking rules and earning the highest success rate in the New York office. But now he has offended the wrong desk jockey, and if he wishes to remain with the agency, he has only two weeks to locate Jared Romaine. Prepared to use any method necessary, Chase doesn't know his rule breaking is about to endanger his heart. While he reminds himself that the good lady doctor is nothing but the sister of a killer, and therefore a means to an end, his emotional involvement takes their passionate encounters to all new levels.<br />Destiny &quot;Dee&quot; Romine knows how relentless the FBI can be. A woman with secrets, she doesn't let anyone too close, even choosing ER medicine so disallow patient closeness. Although she's had a few men in her life, none of those relationships made her sexual desire kick into high. When she meets the sexy football coach renting the space overhead, Dee faces a sizzling awareness that sends her into sensory overload. When she learns that she's sleeping with the enemy, the betray promises to destroy all.<br />Winner of the WordWeaving Award of Excellence, SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY combines the best of romance with the worst of deception, creating a remarkable, memorable read. Author Jamie Denton's characteristic trademark -- inclusion of an adopted character -- results in a fabulous hero. With a unique flair for combining a sexy, sultry love story with an intense plot, Denton once again proves her mastery of romance. Indeed, this reviewer will never be able to eat a cherry red Popsicle again without thinking of erotic connotations! Very highly recommended.	2001-10-15
1813491:US	49693975	RHCCUB42BR75F	0373710151	292468005	Winter Baby: Four Seasons in Firefly Glen (Harlequin Superromance No. 1015)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Intensive emotions -- Highly recommended	Sarah Lennox's carefully constructed life follows a plan she decided upon in childhood. With tender young years built around chaos and change, she determined that only careful control would give her life the safety and security that she needs. Indeed, everything proceeded according to schedule, including college and her career. The man she wanted to marry arrived right on time. Then something went awry one night. Despite conscientious use of birth control, she got pregnant. Worse, the night she announces her pregnancy, her fiancé announces he's leaving Florida behind for California - without her.<br />Only one place, in a magical summer when she was thirteen, ever provided Sarah with a strong sense of home and security. Sarah takes six weeks off work and heads to Firefly Glen and her Uncle Ward. Just outside of town, during a bout of morning sickness brought on by heights and driving through mountains, she meets Sheriff Parker Tremaine when he stops to check on her. He's returned to this tiny Adirondack town for healing as well, following his divorce and resignation from big city life and the Secret Service. He loves Firefly Glen, despite town leaders who argue over the upcoming festival, the mayor's daughter's inappropriate behavior, and the difficulty of keeping his one jail cell free for its intended purpose. More, he's coming to love Sarah, despite her determination to maintain her distance. <br />Kathleen O'Brien creates a pleasing romance in WINTER BABY, the first of the Four Season in Firefly Glen miniseries. The spunky heroine demonstrates substantial growth as she moves from a relationship of indifference to a relationship of passion. Her pregnancy gives impetus to change, and builds marvelous sympathy in the reader. Moreover, the sexy hero proves that pregnant women are sexy and desirable. Indeed, I can't resist a man who happily accepts another man's child as if it were his own. While the plot does provide minor conflict, however, this novel revolves around strong characters, whether it is the hero and heroine, or the wonderfully drawn secondary characters. Highly recommended.	2001-10-11
1814185:US	49693975	R2AOPKB1D1R6M2	0373259492	895457125	Night Pleasures (Heat)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Scintillating and seductive -- Very highly recommended	Cryptologist Edison Lone's always has been more interested in what people don't say than what they do. He's been following classified ads that someone uses to make contact and sell information from the IBI. Before he can take his suspicions to the CIIC, Edison's reassigned to investigate Selena Silverwood. Surveillance cameras have recorded her working on a personal diary during work hours, leading to the possibility that she's encoding secrets into her prose, and then selling that information. Despite the attraction between them, Edison would never allow himself to fall for a traitor.<br />The contrast between Selena's outward shyness and her inward heated fantasies haunts Edison. When he invites her to dinner and she transforms from ugly duckling to stunning siren, Edison's hooked. He can't help wondering if she's ready to make her fantasies a reality. For a man who loves puzzles and secretive communications, reading Selena's fantasies provides the most stimulating puzzle he's ever had. The question remains if they can learn to share more than just night pleasures. <br />Fantasy rules the night in NIGHT PLEASURES by Jule McBride. This sensual romance makes the pages sizzle with its erotic delights. The characterizations are complex with a constant question as to loyalties. Further, the underlying plot of selling information lends the novel fascinating intrigue, keeping the tempo quick as new information is revealed. Moreover, the deft interweaving of the fantasy and reality through excerpts from the diary proves to be quite titillating. Scintillating and seductive, NIGHT PLEASURES comes very highly recommended.	2001-10-10
1814251:US	49693975	R2V0F60NY67J6Z	0373259514	781997964	Mighty Quinns: Dylan (The Mighty Quinns)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	A pleasant read -- Recommended	Firefighter Dylan Quinn has a gift for charming women. In fact, fellow firefighters tease him about all the jackets he's left behind to provide an excuse to get together with the recipient later. Then he lends his jacket to the sexy Meggie Flannagan, a childhood friend, and swears off leaving any more jackets behind. He's found the woman who makes him want to reach beyond easy charisma and share a whole lot more.<br />Meggie never forgave Dylan for her humiliation at the Sophomore Frolic in high school. Now she has a plan for revenge. She'll hook Dylan, and leave him before he has a chance to know what hit him. She's going to be the challenge that men like Dylan always want, since they only want what they cannot have. But then, one look in his eyes makes her want to forget her carefully laid-out plan. After all, no woman can resist the might Quinns.<br />In this second novel of The Mighty Quinns, author Kate Hoffmann gives the second Quinn brother a chance at love. Dylan proves himself to be a sexy, dynamic hero who's always gotten by on his charm. Meggie demonstrates herself to be the woman with whom he can share something real and honest. Nevertheless, although readers will find these characters appealing quite appealing, the conflict between may feel a bit thin, lacking the depth of plot demonstrated by the previous novel in this series. A pleasant read, THE MIGHT QUINNS: DYLAN comes recommended.	2001-10-10
1815256:US	49693975	R3R8EI46YLGYKN	0373259514	781997964	Mighty Quinns: Dylan (The Mighty Quinns)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A pleasant read -- Recommended	Firefighter Dylan Quinn has a gift for charming women. In fact, fellow firefighters tease him about all the jackets he's left behind to provide an excuse to get together with the recipient later. Then he lends his jacket to the sexy Meggie Flannagan, a childhood friend, and swears off leaving any more jackets behind. He's found the woman who makes him want to reach beyond easy charisma and share a whole lot more.<br />Meggie never forgave Dylan for her humiliation at the Sophomore Frolic in high school. Now she has a plan for revenge. She'll hook Dylan, and leave him before he has a chance to know what hit him. She's going to be the challenge that men like Dylan always want, since they only want what they cannot have. But then, one look in his eyes makes her want to forget her carefully laid-out plan. After all, no woman can resist the might Quinns.<br />In this second novel of The Mighty Quinns, author Kate Hoffmann gives the second Quinn brother a chance at love. Dylan proves himself to be a sexy, dynamic hero who's always gotten by on his charm. Meggie demonstrates herself to be the woman he with whom he can share something real and honest. Nevertheless, although readers will find these characters appealing quite appealing, the conflict between may feel a bit thin, lacking the depth of plot demonstrated by the previous novel in this series. A pleasant read, THE MIGHT QUINNS: DYLAN comes recommended.	2001-10-10
1816173:US	49693975	R1QLU3BTXZJ7GK	0821768379	970928892	Deep Midnight	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Won't suit everyone's taste -- Highly recommended	The opulence of Venice's Carnivale conceals a danger in the night that will lead book reviewer Jordan Riley through its decadent streets and to New Orleans seeking answers. A tarot card reader warns Jordan of deep midnight, the true dead of night, when all light fades and shadows even fall in darkness. Jordan can't trust anyone, especially the mysterious Ragnor, who insists that she must trust him. She sees a dead man's visage on mannequins, wolves in shadows, and hears the whisper of wings in the night. Ragnor tells her that she should simply go home to the United States.<br />Jordan accompanies her cousin Jared and his wife to an extravagant party given by Contessa della Triste. The highly respected Contessa gives huge sums of money for the renovation of the ancient buildings of Venice and for orphans. She employees Jared in some mysterious business, and holds him responsible when Jordan witnesses the enactment of a play in the second floor ballroom, which proves to be no enactment at all, but a macabre feeding frenzy on the innocent. A mysterious man dressed a wolf rescues her, helping her to flee the residence. When Jordan goes to the police, however, to tell what she witnessed, no one believes her. They say that she's over wrought, still suffering from the grief of loosing her fiancé the year when he was killed by a cult. The Contessa sympathetically forgives her brash tales, blaming an over stimulated imagination and grief over the past.<br />Shannon Drake pens a compelling tale of the supernatural in DEEP MIDNIGHT. Vibrant costuming and hedonistic pleasure conceal an ancient evil and a history of revenge. The prose flows as gently as the water of Venice canals, rich with nuance and promise. Some may find the first half of the novel unnecessarily slow, though it truly reflects the unhurried pace of the Carnivale itself. Rich descriptive passages and detours into darkened corners become a reflection of the ancient streets of Venice with its dangerous, darkenedside streets. As tension builds, and the impossible proves all too real, Jordan never backs away from the pursuit of answers, even when it leads unexpectedly to her own past and answers that seem impossible. The slow pace won't suit everyone's taste; nevertheless, this new fan finds Drake's view of the world fascinating. Highly recommended.	2001-10-09
1816833:US	49693975	R2HP3ZCXZ5E22C	0373259506	590791510	Bride For Calder Brown (Montana Matchmakers)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Matchmaking at its best! Highly recommended	The geriatric matchmakers of Bliss, Montana return in Kristine Rolofson's A BRIDE FOR CALDER BROWN. They succeeded with Owen Chase, and now its Calder Brown's turn to the altar. He's been with every woman in town under the age of thirty-five, and the Hearts Club needs new blood. Ordinarily, Calder avoids Bliss during its annual matchmaking festival, but he returns home for Owen's wedding because, as everyone knows, he throws the best bachelor parties. He's also Bliss most confirmed bachelor; that is, until he sees the sexy Frenchwoman stepping out of the cake. And his secret desire doesn't stay secret long when his grandfather finds his underwear on the kitchen floor. Now his grandfather's lending strength to the Hearts Club's matchmaking schemes.<br />Lisette Lemieux Hart, new owner of the Bliss bakery, isn't interested in ranchers, but she is interested in catering the bachelor party and providing the cake. Unfortunately, the girl who ordinarily pops out of the cake elopes, leaving Lisette, mother of two girls, to do the honors. Surprisingly, she finds there's something about stepping out of a cake and acting the role of sex symbol for an hour that appeals to this overworked, over tired baker with a bigamist husband in her background. She doesn't need the emotional complications of a lover, or the problems that come with a husband. That is, until one kiss from Calder makes her ready for immoral, foolish, and embarrassing. Then the condom breaks.<br />Once again Kristine Rolofson combines laughter and love in A BRIDE FOR CALDER BROWN. Rolofson's dramatic writing skill once again results in a marvelous cast of characters. There's nothing quite like a confirmed bachelor learning to be a father to two young girls. Further, not only are the hero and heroine an unlikely combination, but the secondary cast also lends comic humor and levity. A delightful read, A BRIDE FOR CALDER BROWN comes highly recommended.	2001-10-09
1817724:US	49693975	R1DQPDKRPSS60S	0373790112	934641323	Uninhibited	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Wonderful love story -- Highly recommended	One of Boston's most eligible bachelors Reed Sullivan has grown accustomed to his great-grandmother Moira Sullivan's perchance for matchmaking. So when he arrives in the drawing room for tea, Reed expects another matchmaking attempt, not a business pitch. He's also accustomed to commanding the respect and desire of marriage minded females, so Zoe's brazen outspokenness takes him aback. Worse, Zoe's lushness inspires lascivious fantasies when he should be concentrating on business. <br />Zoe knows that Reed's impeccable manners and perfect self-control conceal his suspicious disapproval, which he later articulates, calling Zoe a greedy, money-grubbing mercenary. As an honest business entrepreneur, Zoe finds herself incredibly insulted that Reed accuses of her of brazenly trying to bilk an old woman out of her money. As a woman, she's stunned when her gypsy sexiness doesn't gain his favor. Her looks usually give her an edge in dealing with men, and Reed's reticence proves frustrating. <br />UNINHIBITED contains the substance and dazzle of a great love story. Unfortunately, it lacks the eroticism that readers expect from this line, providing thrill and tease, but not delivering until the end. Nevertheless, scorching looks and brooding passion underscores the sensuality of the narrative, providing it an intense sexiness - who knew marble playing could be sexy? In addition, Zoe's multifaceted personality delightfully proves that a woman can be sensual, tempting, and innocent all at the same time. Further, the secondary characters of the story add an additional depth and verve that makes their reviewer hoping Zoe's best friend gets her own story. Highly recommended.	2001-10-05
1818060:US	49693975	R25BNXSCWAPGIT	0804119511	168651540	What to Do About Annie?	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Froth and flamboyance, with surprising depth	Father Joseph Russo resigns his priesthood, becoming a regular Joe, and plans to sort feeling he's run from for fifteen years. He has feelings and desires incompatible with being a priest, and questions that need answers, especially: What to do about Annie? He knows beneath Annie's surface flamboyance lurks a woman of substance and depth - a woman he can't forget and can't get over even after all this time. Loving her had been incredible and loosing her had been almost unbearable. Now he wants her back. It's time to overcome his practicality and share Annie's unbridled passion. <br />Annie Goldman, a woman extraordinary in appearance and attitude, believes Father Joe should have been named Father What-a-Waste, because Father Joe and celibacy don't go together. She should know. She's made a career of concealing the vulnerability and sorrow resulting from their time together fifteen years ago. When she lost him irretrievably to the priesthood, she took quite a hit to her self-image and self-confidence. After all, it's tough enough competing with another woman, but does a woman compete with God?<br />Author Millie Criswell shifts tone slightly in WHAT TO DO ABOUT ANNIE? While THE TROUBLE WITH ANNIE is uproariously funny, WHAT TO DO ABOUT ANNIE? combines humor with deeper issues to create a rich tapestry of emotion. Family, religion, and friendship weave a spell that will hold readers enthralled. Not only are the hero and heroine believable, strong characters, but the secondary characters also add texture, including Joe's mother who mourns her son's decision to leave the priesthood by wearing black, and the spoiled cousin that adores Hollywood gossip. Grandma Flora also puts in several marvelous appearances with rumors of food fights and a healthy dose of common sense. Fans will be pleased with the included sneak peak at THE TRIALS OF ANGELA due in Summer 2002. Highly recommended.	2001-10-05
1818760:US	49693975	R3C2EDQE2SEMIR	0843941510	64344652	Forsaking All Others	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Recommended	Englishman Anthony Chambers arrives in Australia determined to expose the scheming, whoring ways of the woman with whom he shared his inheritance, Annie Ross. The terms of his uncle's will dictated that he live a year with Annie at Camelot station--certainly enough time to expose her for the tart she must be. In his arrogant assessment of the woman who shared his uncle Cedrick's home and life, Tony never even entertained the notion that Annie's and Cedrick's relationship could be based on simple friendship. The world that he comes from in London is a much more calculating one, and men and women play by the rules of high society where friendship between the sexes is unheard of, especially when the woman claims to be widowed and has a small child. But then, Tony has never met a woman like Annie before. And when he does, he finds all of his assumptions, morals and values thrown into question.<br />Annie Ross refused to be intimidated by the aloof, arrogant Englishman. Several years before she left behind his judgmental type when she left her home in Philadelphia to accompany Cedrick to Australia. Fiercely protective of her past, her child, and her home, Annie is determined to remain at Camelot station despite Cedrick's arrogant nephew. Annie's quite surprised by the touch of gentleness Tony exhibits toward her daughter, and even more surprised by the concern he demonstrates toward her. Then again, perhaps the hiring of servants isn't to ease her burden, but only to uphold his proper station in society. Nevertheless, independent and capable, Annie finds other occupations for her time. Yet she finds it difficult to resist her growing attraction to this man, despite the painful memories of her past with her daughter's father.<br />Lovers of historical romance will enjoy Gail Link's gentle, loving romance that provides a step into the past. With a grace and beauty that matches the Australian lands in which it is set, FORSAKING ALL OTHERS follows the development of a passionate love that binds an American heart to an English one in a novel of fulfilled love.	2001-10-04
1818810:US	49693975	R207IRF96MUUNZ	1575322889	442233030	Dustin's Debut	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A terrific read -- Highly recommended	Only in the eighth grade, Dustin Davis has the kind of life most kids only dream about. He has a beautiful girl friend, terrific parents, and a tolerable sister. He knows he wants to be a doctor when he grows up, although he hasn't a clue what area he'll specialize in. Dustin even knows how to fly because for two years his father has been teaching him. Resourceful, intelligent, he's got it alland it's a good thing, because all of his gifts will unexpectedly be put to a challenge of a lifetime when he and his family go on a skiing vacation in the Colorado mountains.<br />From raising two teens of my own, I can't help be astounded at how carefully one might plan his life to how another might not have a plan in the world. Dustin, however, has the most single-minded plan for his life that I've yet to encounter. He knows he is, where he's going and what he wants to do when he gets there. He also has the skills and talents to accomplish his desires. Yet Dustin proves that even the best laid plans can unexpectedly go by the wayside. As he rises to the challenge, he also proves that a well-prepared teen can accomplish almost anything. A delightful read, DUSTIN'S DEBUT comes highly recommended.	2001-10-04
1819136:US	49693975	R33VSI2UYG7IX1	1587410818	749595268	The Slam Club: How to Stop Miserable People from Making You Miserable	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Something everyone should read -- Very highly recommended	Malcontents and hostile gossipers thrive in our society, gathering to compulsively denounce other people, places or things. These people are members of the Slam Club, according to author Michelle Beaudry, who one day realized she was a card carrying member of the club. She decided to change: &quot;I wanted contentious people out of my life without creating more contention.&quot; <br />Beaudry observes that healthy people want facts; slammers prefer stories. Slammers are easy to identify: They are always right. They do not accept nor give apologies. They are competitive in every area of their lives. Slammers also pick at their targets behind their backs. Nothing is ever their fault and blame is their strongest tool. To be hurt by a Slammer, however, one must also be a Slammer. Like voodoo, it only works if you believe.<br />Beaudry also demonstrates how it possible to be around members of the Slam Club with participating yourself. Further, she shows how Slammers are not necessarily abusers. An Abuser's actions directly affect the physical or psychological well-being of the victim. Slammers engage in hateful, hurtful small talk. Although Slamming may be subtler than abuse, it still affects the quality of work or home and tasks left unfinished. And, like abuse, Slamming hurts people.<br />Michelle Beaudry brings tremendous self-honesty, energy and humor to her nonfiction THE SLAM CLUB. Anecdotes from her experience with Slamming bring life to this self-help book, lending it her comic voice, yet allowing the truth of her statements to ring through. Readers will quickly find themselves recognizing the slamming that frequently occurs in their presence in the guise of ordinary conversation. Readers who are slammers themselves will easily come to realize the damaging effect their behavior has on others. A wonderfully written, concisely presented tool that everyone should read, THE SLAM CLUB comes very highly recommended.	2001-10-04
1819571:US	49693975	R30Z48J9WMBLOG	1930364105	595516579	First Empty Your Cup	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very highly recommended	Neil Bezaire, author of FIRST EMPTY YOUR CUP, takes an extraordinary look at how to expand our vision so we see &quot;from the beginning of time to the end of time, from the smallest particle to the largest star, and from here to eternity.&quot; When we learn to see beyond ourselves, to experience something so simple as a rose without preconception, to identify ourselves as part of the cosmos, we become better people. As we gain the use of our imaginations and increase the order of our minds, we learn to live fuller, happier lives.<br />Through the eyes of the author, we examine the greatest cosmos right down to the smallest particles of our brains. Neil weaves together the thoughts of the greatest thinkers of our day: physicist David Bohm, theologian Matthew Fox, theoretical physicist Fred Wolf, and philosopher Fritjof Capra. Moreover, he offers meditations to allow readers to experience concepts presented by all these great minds, thereby, allowing us to relate to these new ideas, and experience them for ourselves.<br />This book asks more of us than the time-honored question of &quot;who am I?&quot; This book asks us &quot;what am I?&quot; We know where we fit, as mother, father, teacher, writer, or friend. But do we know our roles in a larger sense? Do we know where we come from, and where we are going as a member of the human race? Do we know how, as individuals, we fit into the &quot;cosmic&quot; picture? <br />Neil does not offer us definitive answers to these questions. What he does offer are his observations and experiences so that we might answer these questions for ourselves. In effect, he asks us to empty ourselves of the old thoughts, and fill our cup with &quot;fresh tea&quot;; that is, new ideas of looking at ourselves, each other, and the cosmos. Most importantly, he asks us to never be satisfied with answers, but to always continue filling our cups.	2001-10-04
1821199:US	49693975	R1TZKGWW5P5G9	0965549801	678698907	Girls! Girls! Girls!	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Darkly fascinating -- Highly recommended	Three sisters, ages 10, 11, and 12 join their parents for a fantastic cruise to celebrate their mother's graduation from college. Ordinary trip preparations include a shopping expedition in which the oldest daughter praises her mother for allowing her the freedom to grow up when she chooses a bikini for their planned days in the sun. But the ordinary quickly gives way to extraordinary when the oldest two sisters over hear a couple's whispered conversation. The couple are planning a shipboard wedding, fleeing the woman's dangerous and demented ex-husband Larry.<br />At the hotel where the family stays before boarding the ship, the sisters see a mysterious man following the loving couple, and quickly deduce him to be the dangerous Larry. When they see him again aboard ship watching the wedding, conducted by the captain, the girls overhear Larry's threatening mutterings. Soon the entire ship is danger as a hurricane blows in just as Larry blows up two decks of the ship. The three girls wind up in the same boat as the now drunken Larry and an old woman with a heart condition. They must be willing to do anything to live to see their parents again.<br />In a modern day Robinson Crusoe tale for girls, Charley Scholl presents an amazing resourceful and unorthodox tale in GIRLS, GIRLS, GIRLS. Told from a preteen perspective with a slant toward their amazing capabilities, this tale of adventure demonstrates the remarkable abilities of young girls. Not for the weak at heart, this is a story of empowerment in the face of severe adversity. Some readers may find the story a bit improbable or darker than their ordinary taste, but for the strong hearted, this is a book not to be missed. Highly recommended.	2001-10-02
1821626:US	49693975	R223ALPDNE2WX4	192961375X	151736276	The Divided Child	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Recommended	Following a devastating estrangement with her father, Christine Stewart seeks healing in Greece, the homeland of her mother. While visiting Corfu's Old Fortress, she saves the life of a child named Michael Redfield, thrusting her into a dangerous adventure when she returns him home. Michael's Uncle Spiro thanks Christine, and offers her hospitality, but Michael's stepmother Demetra provides a hostile welcome. Despite the family's attitudes, Christine soon moves into the villa out of concern for the child. <br />Michael has become the center of a nasty custody battle between Demetra and his Uncle Geoffrey Redfield. When his father died several months before, Michael became the sole inheritor of a massive fortune, providing anyone else in the family a motive for murder. Christine feels an extraordinary bond to this boy, and an incredible attraction to his uncle Geoffrey. But she'll ignore the needs of her heart, if necessary, to protect the life of the child. The cost, however, may be her life. Poison, &quot;accidents&quot; and gunfire all point to a devious killer willing to do anything.<br />Grecian landscape provides a lush and picturesque background to THE DIVIDED CHILD by Ekaterine Nikas. These are extraordinary characters filled with the light and shadow of human weakness and strength. While the plot is uneven, as the tempo slows unnecessarily at times, it is also sufficiently complex with hidden agendas and dangerous suspicions. Unfortunately, some areas are not sufficiently sketched in. For example, Christine moves in with a family she doesn't know, while in a foreign country, for a child she barely knows because he might be danger -- a foolish decision indeed for a single woman in a foreign country who shouldn't trust anyone. Particularly if her hostess doesn't like her, nor want her, and her host wants to sleep with her, but she doesn't return the feelings. Indeed, I expected him to do a lot more chasing of her around the bedposts. Nevertheless, the suspense, the suspects, and the conclusion work well, making Nikas an author who bears watching. THE DIVIDED CHILD is recommended.	2001-10-02
1821883:US	49693975	R2G3P2KTJNARMN	0595173004	364376017	Magdalenes	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Extraordinary! -- Very highly recommended	Sarah Beth LaBrache learns the predictable schedule her drunken father sets, the days of sobriety and food overbalanced by liquor, hunger and abuse. After her twelfth birthday, however, her mother recognizes the dangerous look in her father's eye when he calls his daughter. To protect her, Sarah's mother sends her to the woods to wait in safety. But nothing can stop the scenes of her father beating her mother that play endlessly in her mind. With her mother's encouragement, she runs away.<br />Unfortunately, fleeing lands Sarah Beth in worse danger. Promises of a safe orphanage and an education lure her to the clutches a woman who drugs her, and sells her body to wealthy men. Desperation leads men with syphilis to have intercourse with virgins in the belief that a young girl's virginity will bring a cure. Two weeks later, Sarah Beth is cast to the streets, where she makes her way as best she can selling her body. Four months later, on the brink of suicide, salvation comes at the hands of Myda.<br />Myda's girls are twenty-dollar-a-day courtesans, gifted in music, languages, or other arts. They entertain their clients in splendor. Pregnant, syphilitic, and desperate, Sarah begs to stay, promising to earn her keep. Myda would prefer to send her to a home for wayward girls, but relinquishes in the end. Following an abortion, miraculously healed, Sarah Beth vows that if she is going to be whore, then she will extract more than money for payment. She wants knowledge, and she puts that knowledge to use. Her photographic memory allows her to learn many languages and skills. <br />Sarah Beth eventually rents a room from a real Creole lady, where she meets Frank Cheramie. The gifted doctor involves her in research, and allows her to become his assistant. She carefully protects her true identity and her past from Frank, however, just as she carefully words the letters she sends home with money to her mother. Sarah Beth lives with the knowledge that her life will be a &quot;series of near-catastrophes until Frank finally discovered who and what she was.&quot; Honesty carries too great a price in a Darwinian world that condemns the lowest levels of society. <br />When circumstances and opportunity conspire, young Sarah Beth LaBranche looses her innocence to cruelty in MAGDALENES. But this isn't the tale of self-pity or justification. Nor is this tale of vicarious, perverted detail. Rather, this is a tale of redemption. Author Channing Hayden writes tale laden with compassion for the travails of an innocent led astray, and yet this author never allows her heroine to decline responsibility for her actions. The result is a deeply moving novel, rich with historical detail, and generous with nuance. Profound philosophical musings intersperse medical drama and romance. Very highly recommended.	2001-10-02
1821953:US	49693975	R3Q4G8GF8G71KH	1929034261	142684802	A Doleful Kind Of Singing	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Recommended	Ariela Harrington's father Cardeman suffered from an obsession so profound that even as he dies, he allows his quest to carry him to Scotland even while leading his daughter to believe he was in Africa. A man ahead of his time, Cardeman raised his daughter to flaunt convention and encouraged freethinking. So when Cardeman death is ruled a suicide, Ariela promptly sets off for Scotland to retrace her father's final days. Ariela's convinced her father's death is directly attributable to his obsession for the mysterious beast known as the Lock Ness monster. <br />Along the way, accompanied by her chaperone Sophie, Ariela encounters a mysterious stranger who never takes off his glasses. Rude and crass, she would like to ignore him, and might have succeeded if not for the unaccountable attraction she feels toward him. When she later learns his identity, she is no less put out by his behavior, and no less attracted. Further, as those around her insist on her return to London to protect her safety, Ariela tenaciously pursues the answers to the mysterious beast of Loch Ness and the death of her father. Even as Ariela's attraction to him grows, so does her suspicions of Logan's connections to her father's death. <br />Logan MacNiall, the mysterious man of the mismatched eyes, lives with a horrifying family history and an odd connection to the monster of Loch Ness. His home lies in great disrepair, not unlike his own appearance. Logan and Cardeman had a terrific fight short just before Cardeman's body was found. Indeed, Logan had denied the scholar access to Loch Ness from his property. He likewise continuously discourages Ariela's quest into the past and the death of her father, all the while fighting his attraction to the fiery young woman. <br />KG McAbee posses a entrancing voice that allows the reader to easily slip into a world of her creation, complete with dangerous beasts and heroes with mismatched eyes. Her grace conceals a skill and precision by which she manipulates the reader into believing the impossible is entirely probable.	2001-10-02
1823127:US	49693975	R2CU7YYM252UC2	1551668122	416233120	Night Of The Blackbird	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Divided loyalties - Very highly recommended	Kelly's Pub, a family-owned establishment in Boston, becomes the center of a family reunion and possible terrorist plot during a St. Patrick's Day celebration. When her mother calls warning that her father's health isn't well, TV producer Moira Kelly changes her plans and brings she show to Boston. The plans for the pub and her family provide insight for viewers into the way of the Irish from recipes to lore. When Moira learns that a certain Belfast politician plans to celebrate the holiday with Bostonians, she also decides to invite him to her show. Soon Moira finds herself thrust into danger and intrigue, as she learns that &quot;Blackbird&quot; represents more than the name of the band or Kelly invented beverage, it also seems to be a code word linking pub patrons to political ideologies and dangerous plots.<br />In addition to professional concerns, Moira also finds her loyalties challenged in her private life. She brings her new love, Michael McLean to Boston, despite the fact that her old flame Daniel O'Hara is also visiting her family. Torn between stability and passion, Moira struggles with her common sense and her heart. Worse, she also feels her loyalties challenged by her brother's frequent mysterious absences, secrets whispered in the darkness, and new revelations about Danny's past. Add a killer of prostitutes that seems connected to the conspiracy, as well as her father's best friend's death, and Moira finds herself in imminent danger. <br />Heather Graham strikes the perfect balance between romance and suspense in NIGHT OF THE BLACKBIRD. While terrorist plots may be a bit difficult to read in the wake of the recent US bombing, for those with an appetite for intrigue, NIGHT OF THE BLACKBIRD will prove quite satisfying. The complexity of plot, richness of historical detail, and multitude of suspects keeps the reader enthralled. Further, the heroine struggles with first generation Irish-American, including family idiosyncrasies, political entanglements and multiple loyalties, thereby adding tremendous richness of this novel. Combined with a beautifully written love story and thought provoking philosophical asides, NIGHT OF THE BLACKBIRD comes very highly recommended.	2001-10-01
1823764:US	49693975	R3LL0NW97II463	0373271751	952606807	Heart Of A Hero (Childfinders, Inc.)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Trust is a difficult thing to learn -- Highly recommended	Her heart is carefully protected as her child, but that's not enough when a kidnapper takes former Las Vegas showgirl Dakota Armstrong's two-year-old son. Dakota believes the child's grandfather, a man of dangerous connections and unfathomable power, has stolen her son. Now Dakota must learn to trust again if she wants him back. Indeed, only the heart of a hero will be enough to earn her trust, or her love.<br />Russell Andreini of ChildFinders, Inc. believes in miracles. In fact, he's made a career out of making miracles happen. ChildFinders, Inc. has never failed to find a missing child, no matter what it takes, or what the parent can afford for their services. So when a scream in the night leads Rusty to the apartment beneath his where he finds a stunned mother, he rushes to her assistance. Never mind she fears anyone's help. To help Dakota find her son, first Rusty must earn her trust, and extract her carefully guarded secrets.<br />Author Marie Ferrarella creates a powerful story of trust, healing, and love in HEART OF A HERO. These are passionate, believable characters bound by a common quest. Rusty's enormous, generous heart reaches beyond Dakota's carefully constructed walls, teaching her to trust without once undermining her hard won strength. With a marvelous plot with a surprising twist at the end, readers won't be able to put it down. Highly recommended.	2001-09-30
1824146:US	49693975	R2B7SPL5EFEL2T	1586971190	328503929	At Your Command	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Quirky, light reading -- Very highly recommended	Maggie Yates possess a Masters of Science degree and a graduate assistantship in psychology. Two days before her wedding to the professor she assists, Maggie leaves him a message on his answering machine saying shed changed her mind and he should stay in L.A. In an equally impersonal response, Chet sends her a telegram saying he needs an assistant with whom he can work closely and he will find someone else.<br />With no money, no job and no plans, Maggies at a loss. Four weeks later a package arrives from her great aunt. Within is a jinn. They are now unexplainably linked as surely as he has a silver collar around his neck. Until Maggie banishes him to the obis or she dies, he belongs to her. Maggie thinks shes loosing her mind, although she cant help but admire the rather hunky, naked man that has mysteriously appeared in her bedroom. Now she has three wishes before he disappears forever.<br />But soon Tom, as the jinn calls himself, has his own wish. He wants to remain close to Maggie and keep her happy. From warming her toes to providing the most erotic nights of passion, hes happy to please, unlike with his previous masters whom only doled out cruelty. Now Tom hopes to trick Maggie out of her third wish until shes an old woman, so that he might enjoy living. He even finds himself wishing she might love him enough set him free.<br />Christine Murphy creates an entrancing romance in AT YOUR COMMAND. Certainly any woman would delight in the physical pleasures and potential for wishes that this sexy jinn presents. Yet theres a deeper motivation, as Maggies growth and maturity bring a sparkle to the tale, balanced by Toms sizzling journey to learning to love and trust humans. Sensual, evocative and amusing, AT YOUR COMMAND comes very highly recommended.	2001-09-30
1824455:US	49693975	RVCENV8AEHFC3	0373790104	336174161	Pleasure Principle	Books	3	17	17	N	N	Disappointing	Eleven years after leaving behind Cadillac, Texas, ad exec Brady Weston returns home for healing. He'd left in disgrace, married to a girl he'd accidentally gotten pregnant and a terrible disappointment to his grandfather. Now he's ready to trade high rises and slick suits for wide-open spaces and his family boot manufacturing business. Determined to prove himself to his grandfather, he dedicates his days to hard menial work in the company. He plans to devote his nights to Eden Hallsy, the town bad girl, in an effort to heal his bruised ego. He wants to provide her with earth shattering orgasms that make her scream, erasing the sharp critical words of his ex-wife. <br />Despite her bad girl reputation, Eden hasn't had more than a good moan, let along anything earth shattering, in a very long time. When her high school crush propositions her, Eden's ready to bring a long, dry spell to an end. Just looking at Brady ignites her imagination, but Eden knows how to remain in control. Indeed, she's notorious for being in control, along with a lot of other things. Despite her determination to keep the pleasure between the sheets and her heart to herself, however, Eden finds herself wanting more than mind-blowing orgasms. Indeed, she wants it all, and she wants it with Brady.<br />Harlequin's new Blaze series promises steamy encounters certain to tickle the libido. Unfortunately, Kimberly Raye's THE PLEASURE PRINCIPLE falls short of that goal. While the characters are strong, believable, and likable, the plotting spends too much time building up to the &quot;good stuff&quot; while not delivering sufficiently on the passion that draws readers to this line. Disappointing.	2001-09-29
1824968:US	49693975	R1NWWM0FTWAJ8Y	0373244282	953525647	Cowgirl Be Mine (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Evocative -- Highly recommended	Mandy Thomson lives in the moment, thriving on fast horses, dangerous bulls and wild parties. Just before the gate rises, she looks up to seek Jake. She hasn't seen him in ten years, since she walked out on him when she was seventeen. Seeing him there momentarily breaks her concentration, bringing back a flood of memories before Mandy single-mindedly focuses on the most important ride of her career. She experiences almost six second of total exhilaration. Then, in less than a second, the Brahma bull she's riding dies, a ton falling on her legs. In those moments before loosing consciousness, she relies on Jake as a guardian angel. He is her lifeline until medical help arrived. Then she doesn't see him again. The following three days Mandy lays comatose, and her mother signs the consent form for a leg to be amputated below the knee. <br />They were young and in love. Then a tragic car accident deprived Jake Miller's father of both legs. Jake accepts full responsibility for his family and his family's box company, growing up quickly despite his youth. He trades his college football scholarship to care for his family. He'd wanted forever with Mandy, but she wanted excitement, rodeos, parties and fun. She feared being bogged down with the kind of responsibility Jake faced. Ten years later, Jake has an apartment already equipped for a handicapped person's needs, and Mandy's brother brings her there to live. He loves her bravado, determination and brash words that always cover her fear or insecurity. Neither of them is prepared for the feelings that return as if the ten years had never been. And as Mandy learns to accept her outward wounds, so must Jake learn to heal his internal scars.<br />First time author Elaine Nichols pens a strong, deeply evocative romance in COWGIRL BE MINE. Mandy's an unexpected heroine whose superficial life must be stripped away to expose the feelings and desires long hidden. In a genre where heroines are never handicapped and frequently adhereto stereotypes, Mandy's fun loving partying lifestyle provides refreshing verve, especially when she is juxtaposed with a much too serious hero. This remarkable author bears watching, as COWGIRL BE MINE promises a marvelous future for this author. Highly recommended.	2001-09-29
1825215:US	49693975	R1OKGYMRLQ6FZI	0373271794	528210551	Promises, Promises (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Appealing characters -- Recommended	Three months after her best friend died, Gretchen Montgomery received a tape made by Jill. On the tape, Jill extracts three promises: take the money Jill left her out of the safe money market account and spend it on frivolities; enter a piano competition; have a wild, crazy affair. So Ms. Practicality CPA finds herself embarking on a new life style. New clothes, new cosmetics and a new sports car lead her to propositioning the sexy doctor next door. Too bad he flat turns her down. <br />Dr. Marco Garibaldi likewise always honors his promises. He's seen the strain being a doctor place on a family life. So he's made a couple of promises to himself: never loose touch with the human side of his job; never marry. When he weakens on his promise, he thinks of his best friend and the struggles he and his wife face. Ironically, his best friend convinces him to baby sit his seven month old so he and his wife can take the weekend for time together to hopefully save their marriage. Marco's inadequate baby skills lead to Gretchen's assistance and his change of heart regarding an affair.<br />What PROMISES, PROMISES lacks in substance, it compensates with frivolity. This delightfully pleasant read results in first-rate escape fiction. As promises draw Gretchen and Marco into experiencing life and learning to risk their hearts. As this couple struggles with the stress every couple faces, they do so with pain, with humor, and with grace. These appealing characters result in a delightful afternoon's read. PROMISES, PROMISES comes recommended.	2001-09-28
1826522:US	49693975	R215NALW3VR83A	0373244258	772191147	Truth About Tate (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Lies, deceptions and charades - Recommended	Alabama reporter Natalie Grant lands the chance of the lifetime when US Senator Boyd Chaney asks her to write his biography. Tenacious in her efforts to dig up the past, the senator's exploits lead her to an affair the senator had thirty years before with Lucinda Rawlins and their illegitimate son. Now rancher Tate Rawlins takes the place of his half-brother in an effort to protect his unconventional family from scandal, hoping to convince Natalie to abandon her expose. <br />Natalie's contract to write the biography stipulates that she secures the cooperation of the every one of the senator's six ex-wives, nine children, and seven grandchildren. J. T. Rawlings is the only hold out. She must convince him to cooperate. She already messed up once, loosing her career, her father's respect and her self-respect. All destroyed by the person she loved. This is her opportunity to redeem herself. Now she knows to not care for anyone or anything but the story. However stubborn J. T. Rawlins proves to be, she vows to be more stubborn. She won't leave until she gets the story.<br />As the more cool headed of the two brothers, Tate volunteers to handle the reporter while his mother and half-brother complete previously arranged plans to visit grandparents, especially since their grandfather was recently injured. Lying about his identity violates his morals, but leaving his family exposed to the reporter violates them even more. So when Natalie appears on his doorstep, Tate isn't prepared for the spark of attraction between them, nor is he prepared for her tenaciousness. Not only is he going to hell for lying, he's going to suffer a fierce attraction to her while on earth.<br />Tate's questions to Natalie form an interesting introspection in THE TRUTH ABOUT TATE. As she searches for answers to the senator's past, Natalie learns more about the truth about herself than she does her subject. It does seem odd that Natalie doesn't catch onto the deception early in the novel as she examines family pictures, and misses the occasional slip. If Natalie had done her research, and paid attention to what the senator told her, she should have realizes which J.T. Rawlings is the elder brother. Even if the Senator didn't have a picture, Tate had been a football star who gave up a promising career to care for his son. Newspaper photo should have revealed the sham to the reporter. Despite the thinness of the subterfuge, however, it does make for an intriguing plot. Recommended.	2001-09-27
1826940:US	49693975	R3QNH77ZGBLRNF	0373244266	596384243	His Little Girl's Laughter (Silhouette Special Edition No. 1426)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Strong story line	Deputy district attorney Rafe Pierson had been single-minded in his pursuit of justice until the brother of man he prosecuted sought retribution. Rafe's wife was gunned down in a fast food restaurant in the presence of his daughter. Just before the murder died, he told police &quot;he wanted to take away someone I loved, the same way I'd taken away his brother.&quot; In the aftermath, Rafe's not only lost his wife, but also felt like he'd lost his daughter when she grew entirely silent, absolutely refusing to speak. In a desperate measure to heal his daughter, Rafe signs her up for equestrian therapy.<br />Dr. Shannon Collins developed a regimen that utilizes patient's interaction with horses as a form of therapy. When Rafe arrives with his daughter Janine, Shannon realizes that to reach the child she will have to reach the parent. Rafe and Janine are guests in her home since they live so far away, lending a domestic element to their interaction. Shannon holds her own scars from the past, having grown up in an alcoholic home where her father beat her mother. Cautious of men, she's not interested in a serious relationship with a man, although she would like to have a child. Until that day, she channels her maternal feelings into her job.<br />This reviewer faces a bit of a conundrum responding to HIS LITTLE GIRL'S LAUGHTER. On the one hand, author Karen Rose Smith presents a strong storyline with believable characters. On the other hand, I grew impatient with a hero who constantly compares his previous clingy wife to the heroine, rather than just allowing her strengths to shine. I also grew quite cross with a woman who purposefully wants to get pregnant without the knowledge or consent of her partner. Nevertheless, the child of the story gives the novel a unity and beauty that makes it, at times, a very attractive read.	2001-09-27
1827314:US	49693975	RRKFQCCKJWTWT	0743405951	571244133	Sweet Success (Pocket Star Books Romance)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Be ready to approach chocolate with reverence and awe	At thirty, all that Allison Thomas can claim is a gourmet chocolate shop and a cat, even if she is a great rescuer of people and pets. Further, she's not sure which is worse, her mother's frequent desire for grandchildren speech or the makeover speech. When the new handyman Matt Baker shows up to install shelves in her shop, he's not terribly amused by either Allison or her mother. Then he learns that Ali's food is more than sustenance, it's an experience. A single truffle leads to his downfall as Matt sees Ali handling challenges the same way she handles chocolate-delicately but with command.<br />Ali tells Matt that he doesn't eat her food, doesn't talk much, and doesn't play well with others. When she offers him food twice in one day, Matt simply pegs her for a meddler. But then, Matt's a mass of contradictions. Well spoken and well educated, Matt's something of a mystery. He carefully keeps to himself; worried Ali might learn his secrets. Despite that fact that he doesn't want rescuing, Matt finds himself falling into a comfortable routine as he becomes part of Ali's small town. Too bad he believes that there's no way to make peace with what he's done. <br />Author Susan Mallery brings her customary verve to SWEET SUCCESS. She sweetly captures the contradictions of living in a delightful microcosm of life: small town mentality, cosmopolitan troubles, and a cast of characters straight from everyone's backyard. In addition to zany primary characters, the secondary characters are a riot, especially the flawless, perfectly coifed mother who has a rather large pig as pet - a pig that likes a treat with her morning coffee. The kind of mother, that is, that flat out declares to Matt, &quot;You're not happy material,&quot; after confiding secrets of her love life from thirty years before. Rick, Ali's gay brother is also great for a load of laughs and quaint observations. A lovely, light read guaranteed to bring the satisfaction of really great chocolate, Mallery's latest offering is a SWEET SUCCESS. Very highly recommended.	2001-09-27
1828195:US	49693975	R2HLQ1T6TMD0WU	0373271778	768189622	Cassidy And The Princess	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Seductive, sexy and exciting - Very highly recommended	It turns personal when the serial killer's fifth victim miraculously escapes. The killer began with prostitutes before attacking ice skating champion Marise Merrick. Now nothing will stop him from killing her before she can identify &quot;The Rose Killer&quot;. Marise determinedly becomes the bait to lure the killer into the open, but not before his stalking escalates to chilling proportions. <br />Detective Cassidy MacKay has pursued The Rose Killer for eight months. But budgets don't allow a lot of resources for a killer who preys on prostitutes in the city of Atlanta. International athletes, however, garner a lot more attention. The first moment he meets Marise's eyes, there's an odd flash of recognition that seems to bind them despite his vows to never give his heart away again. He can't help being impressed by this strong, gutsy, courageous woman who won't back away from helping to capture this killer despite the risk to herself.<br />Marise takes great strides toward overcoming long held guilt when she decides to stay in Atlanta to aid in the apprehension of The Rose Killer. For the first time she acts on what she wants; that is, to help capture a killer, and to remain in the company of the detective during this frightening time. Unfortunately, her mother and skating partner seems more concerned with getting her back in competition than with her well-being. Accustomed to making decisions based on her partner and her mother, her choices sets into motion a whole chain of events that lead to independence as she learns to leave the &quot;ifs&quot; behind. She learns to accept that she wants more than her partner and mother want. Rather than gold metals and international acclaim, she'd rather have a family and a home.<br />Author Patricia Potter writes with a dignity and poignant assurance that touches reader's hearts in CASSIDY AND THE PRINCESS. Juxtaposing the glittering success of an ice princess with the dark, brooding detective, Potter creates a tale of opposites who come to share the same goal. While the underlying plot, to capture the serial killer, binds the pieces of this story together, it never overshadows the richly presented love story. Secondary characters are also marvelously presented, resulting in a multifaceted tale of riveting proportions. Very highly recommended.	2001-09-26
1829609:US	49693975	RKUR6HV2G92ST	037324424X	182430680	Dateline Matrimony (Hot Off The Press) (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fiery characterizations -- Highly recommended	Teresa Scott is a waitress at the Rainbow Café in a small, Arkansas town where she meets Riley O'Neil. He's a reporter who enjoys disconcerting people with off-the-wall comments. She's cautious in her interactions with Riley because he doesn't need any encouragement from a woman who doesn't date. She insists that she finds his teasing more annoying than amusing, despite her attraction to the reporter. When Teresa realizes that he's already chummy with her children, she can't help wondering how that ever happened. Especially with a guy who claims to not like children.<br />Fear of rejection keeps Riley from submitting one of the fantasy novels he's written to a publisher. That same fear has always kept him from issuing invitations to women he knows will be accepted. So now he wonders why he finds himself pursuing a woman who consistently declines. Especially when he learns she has children. And especially when he has no intention of every marrying. Worse, he even rents her the duplex next door, insuring that they see one another frequently, and resulting in intimacies he didn't quite predict.<br />Author Gina Wilkins offers a terrific conclusion to her miniseries Hot Off the Press. DATELINE MATRIMONY concludes the underlying secondary plot while never taking the emphasis from the burgeoning romance between Riley and Teresa. Riley's an unlikely hero, not necessarily because he's forsworn marriage or dating a woman with children, but because he's mouthy, irritating, and won't take no for an answer while still remaining charming, funny and honest. Indeed, DATELINE MATRIMONY'S crisp dialogue and fiery characterizations result in a strong read. Highly recommended.	2001-09-25
1829868:US	49693975	R121EFLM77H13S	0373244274	326000115	The Woman For Dusty Conrad (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Sharp edged and vividly realized -- Very highly recommended	One moment firefighter Dusty Conrad and his brother are scaling a set of stairs, seeking out a fire, his brother quizzing him about the flash point of pair of the socks. Then a careless, stupid mistake, a back draft, his brother dies, and paramedics whisk wife Jolie to the hospital with third degree burns. Dusty resigns from the department, and asks Jolie to resign as well. He can't attend another funeral of a loved one, especially when she purposely places herself in danger. She refuses. So Dusty walks away from the tie that bound him to the woman he loves, but threatened to choke him in the end.<br />Six months later Dusty returns to Old Orchard because Jolie hasn't signed the divorce decree. It's supposed to be a quick process. Quietly slip into town, pick up the papers, and quietly slip away. Then everyone greets him as if he'd only been gone a day. Worse, his hot reaction at seeing Jolie reminds him of everything he's lost. And he sees his brother's widow; bringing to mind the pain he wants to leave behind. He can't compete with the adrenaline rush of fighting fires, or the emotional risk of loosing another to that vicious red monster. Surely with him gone, Jolie would be relieved to be able to live, as she wanted without someone questioning what she was doing.<br />Tori Carrington creates powerful conflict in THE WOMAN FOR DUSTY CONRAD. In a marvelous reversal of traditional roles, where men ordinarily risk their lives and women wait helplessly at home, Carrington creates a loving couple that risk their lives together on the job. It's the man who has second thoughts, survivor's guilt, and the inability to maintain such a risky lifestyle. Jolie never backs away from the job she loves and the responsibility she's accepted in her small town. Even her eventual compromise doesn't lessen her power or responsibility. <br />Further, Carrington captures the sharp edge of emotion held in check, maintaining a careful tension throughout the novel as these characters battle the blazing inferno of their hearts as well as life and death issues. Once again Carrington demonstrates a remarkable ability to seamlessly blend the male and female points of view in a powerful narrative that never backs away from either's emotions. Indeed, this writing team has become a master of vividly capturing fierce emotion. Very highly recommended.	2001-09-24
1829949:US	49693975	R3MTI8CBA4N4XV	037327176X	341170831	Born Brave (Firstborn Sons) (Silhouette Intimate Moments, 1106)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Recommended with reservations	She can fight; she can shoot; she can walk like a princess. So when Laurie Lewis lands the opportunity to impersonate the beloved Montebellan princess, she feels prepared for the terrorists' plot of kidnapping. She's not quite so prepared to handle her bodyguard. All her life Laurie has fought to be taken seriously. When bodyguard ex-cop Hawk Stone underestimates her abilities, she proves her point. But she can't deny the passion his green eyes ignite.<br />Wounded by tragic losses, Hawk had retreated to the desert to nurse his wounds until his father convinces him to accept this assignment. They plan to set a trap for the terrorists, using Laurie as bait as she travel across the United States impersonating the Montebellan princess on a publicity tour. Hawk believes Laurie to be too young and too naive to handle this dangerous assignment. But since she's a dead ringer for the princess, and well versed in all the areas of intelligence that would effect this assignment. Now, despite his efforts to keep their relationship strictly business, Hawk finds his imagination captured by this sultry seductress turned princess.<br />I was forced to suspend my disbelief on several points in order to enjoy this romance. First, the premise of BORN BRAVE strikes me as a bit odd, because I have difficulty imagining the FBI hiring an ex-cop, regardless of whose son he is, to guard an FBI agent. Second, our heroine wears divine designer clothing that reveals her figure to perfection, but she impersonates a woman who is pregnant. Despite these misgivings, however, BORN BRAVE does bring together some wonderful fantasy elements. A man of Native American descent with green eyes certainly lights my fire. In addition, this heroine gives as well as she takes, demonstrating physical strength as well as intelligence. Therefore, BORN BRAVE comes recommended.	2001-09-24
1831367:US	49693975	R1IAXIQLPX10UO	158721475X	284538318	A Woman's Relationship Survival Guide: (If He's Worth It)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An extremely useful tool -- Highly recommended	Honestly evaluating a relationship can be one the greatest challenges a woman can face. We seem to know when things are well; it's when things don't feel quite right that the self-honesty becomes far more difficult. Patrisha Stauss makes the task of evaluating relationship far simpler in A WOMAN'S RELATIONSHIP SURVIVAL GUIDE (IF HE'S WORTH IT). Strauss aids readers in showing women how to make their partner aware of their feelings and how to better understand them, including their likes, dislikes and the reasons for their reactions.<br />Laid out as a survival map, A WOMAN'S RELATIONSHIP SURVIVAL GUIDE leads the reader through paths intended to strengthen the inner self. She allows the reader the opportunity to examine several alternatives, and to accept the consequences of each path. Following the opportunities available, women will learn to take responsible for their decisions and their own happiness. Strauss provides practical advice and practical solutions to begin the path to independence and responsibility. She also provides advice on how to minimize the struggles between the differences that separate the sexes.<br />A WOMAN'S RELATIONSHIP SURVIVAL GUIDE is geared toward women in unhappy relationships seeking solutions. While many women in our culture have learned to successfully live as independent women, many others are still struggling with the cycle of dependence handed down by tradition and history. While she does suggest that there are times to draw the line and move on, Strauss does not offer this advice lightly. Instead, she shows the reader how to take control of the inner self and learn how to work around and accept men's behaviors and attitudes. A number of useful resources are also included. An extremely useful tool for women in crisis over their relationships, A WOMAN'S RELATIONSHIP SURVIVAL GUIDE is highly recommended.	2001-09-23
1831540:US	49693975	R2HT7FJIXK7P1A	0505524473	740687630	Dark Fire (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 6)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Evocative and intense -- Very highly recommended	A dangerous, dark fire burns in Carpathian men. More animal than man, they are predators. Each Carpathian man must find the light to his darkness, or risk losing the color and emotions that prevent them from slipping over the edge into becoming a vampire. Once Tempest enters his life, Darius may display a perfect tranquility, but beneath the surface fierce emotion seethes. There is only one woman for each male. Accustomed to having his own way, Darius meets his match in Tempest. He expects deference to his every wish. She is accustomed to being utterly independent. As they share thoughts and memories, Darius comes to understand Tempest also share the same aching loneliness concealed in his own soul.<br />Audacious, defiant, and tempestuous, Tempest lives up to her name with her rebellious attitude and stirring up of trouble. As she learns to calm the fury of her mind, however, Tempest discovers the power of her own psychic gifts, as well as the pull of fate. Destined to become Darius' life mate, Tempest struggles against the mesmerizing pull of his presence, the seductive danger and sheer magic of his voice. She doesn't understand that she puts color in Darius' world, igniting passion and emotion long forgotten over endless centuries. Indeed, it seems every time she goes out, trouble has a way of finding her, whether it be vampire hunters and injured animals. <br />Christine Feehan brings texture and richness to her latest saga of Carpathians in DARK FIRE. As sparks ignite between these strong willed, multifaceted characters, Darius knows he's met his life mate because she's literarily put color back in his universe. Tempest isn't nearly so trusting of fate, exerting her fierce independence and proving the strength of her mettle. Yet Darius ignites a dark fire every time he touches her, providing a scintillating, sensual read. Further, watching Darius learn to cope with long forgotten emotion following centuries of icy control makes for evocative, intense entertainment. As a new fan of this series, this reader found obvious ties to previous books, but still feels the strength of the novel allows it to stand alone as well. Very highly recommended.	2001-09-23
1832211:US	49693975	R3UW0QL2RP3CKA	0373244231	293607153	The Marriage Conspiracy (Conveniently Yours, Bravo Family) (Silhouette Special Edition, No 1423)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	An intensive read -- Highly recommended	The Atwoods have too much money and too much power, which corrupted their only son. Joleen believed Bobby's silken lies until he'd wanted nothing to do with his child, abandoning Joleen when she learned of her pregnancy. Now her son Sam is eighteen months old. Six weeks ago Bobby died in a power skiing accident. In spite of the past, she'd contacted his parents to tell them that they have a grandson. Their response is to offer her money for custody. When Joleen refuses, they threaten court, counting on political favors to win them the child.<br />Dekker recently learned that he's the Bravo's missing heir. Now a millionaire, he immediately steps in to help Joleen when he learns of the Atwood's threats. The stability of marriage and the money to hire the best lawyers should protect the child. He warns Joleen, however, that he's emotionally dead when it \\"comes to man-woman love.\\" A bitter marriage with a woman who couldn't be satisfied and eventually left him widowed resulted in becoming absolutely numb. The only woman Dekker lets close to him is his beloved childhood friend Joleen. She's always touched the parts of him he keeps silent, hearing the things he can't always articulate.<br />Joleen's feelings move from tender goodwill to defensiveness when their act of their marriage, and a couple of kisses, awaken a powerful yearning. In her mother's words, she wants magic, passion, and excitement. And she wants it with Dekker. When he said that neither of them were in the market for a grand passion, or possibly ever would be, she didn't want to confess that she wants the passion he believes impossible. <br />Christine Rimmer's special talent for creating emotional vulnerable characters once again sparkles in THE MARRIAGE CONSPIRACY. These are imperfect, believable people struggling with their feelings and the past. Secondary characters, even those only sketched at the wedding, for example, also shimmer with plausibility and humor. With a heart stopping threat regarding custody, as well as healing old wounds, THE MARRIAGE CONSPIRACY results in intensive read that comes highly recommended.	2001-09-22
1832958:US	49693975	RCZJA4EP6X93M	0373271786	120918423	Hard To Handle (Charmed And Dangerous)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The light and shadow of emotion -- Highly recommended	Meghan Patterson represents the exact kind of trouble Detective Gabe Conally tries to avoid with secrets in her eyes and lies on her lips. His fascination is purely business, of course, since her nephew is a valuable witness. Never mind the first kiss backfires, failing to prove there isn't any attraction between them. Few women elicit an emotion response him, beyond the obvious, but Meghan touches parts of him that he has never shared with anyone. Soon he finds himself offering to investigate the case involving Meghan's sister, despite the fact that the case is closed, in exchange of her nephew Danny's assistance in an ongoing investigation.<br />Meghan believes the Chicago police are responsible for her sister's death and will do anything to protect Danny from the same fate. Her sister had been telepathic, a gift she'd passed to her son. Further, Meghan guards her hard won privacy carefully. Gabe's presence brings her pain, anger, and regret too close to the surface. She finds his intensity unnerving even as she fights her growing desire for this irritating, persistent man. Her sister's death appears to be tied to another case Gabe's working, and Meghan finds herself drawn into Gabe's world despite her protestations.<br />Kylie Brant brings two cynics who believe the only person they can trust is himself or herself together in HARD TO HANDLE. While he was a juvenile delinquent and she was from a wealthy family, they both know the meaning of pain and betrayal. The growth of these characters as they begin the difficult job of exposing vulnerabilities and risking further hurt makes them endearing and believable. Further, outrageous, sizzling heat always threatens just beneath the surface to erupt in tumultuous passion, refusing to allow them to simply walk away. In addition, the inclusion of a five-year-old telepath lends HARD TO HANDLE an addition challenge, resulting in a vividly unique read. Very highly recommended.	2001-09-21
1832959:US	49693975	RX3D7T5619MNY	082176831X	358233442	Lottie And The Rustler: Bogus Brides (Ballad Romances)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The light and shadow of emotion -- Highly recommended	Dressmaker Lottie chooses her bogus 'husband&quot; from a wanted poster. She believes herself much more clever than her sisters, who fabricated their husbands out of thin air. At least her husband truly exists, even if he's in prison serving a very long sentence. Hiding behind her married status, Lottie creates a satisfying life, although in the dark of night she occasionally imagines what it would be like to let her steely control slip and do something shocking and wild. Indeed, Lottie's always had a fascination with the dark side of life, craving adventure and excitement, that's she holds tightly in check until she meets Shayne Rosswarne. <br />When he's released, Shayne heads straight to McTavish Plain, in the North Dakota Territory where he plans to kill a man. When he arrives, however, the town greets him as Lottie's husband. Rather than revealing the truth, he plays the hand he's dealt; pleased with the woman he's &quot;married&quot; to. A little seduction of his enemy's sister-in-law should make revenge all the sweeter. But Lottie's not what Shayne expects in a woman. She's fire and hot current with a heated connection to him that challenges his desire for revenge and concept of honor. <br />Author Linda Lea Castle pens a charming conclusion to the Bogus Bride trilogy with LOTTIE AND THE RUSTLER. Castle's prose sparkles with fun and whimsy combined with dark passion, resulting in a marvelous contrast of the light and shadow of emotion. Indeed, the wrestling of emotions in this hero, as he struggles to let go of the very resolve that kept him alive for years, creates tremendous tension. A novel of self-acceptance and transformation, LOTTIE AND THE RUSTLER combines heat, sensuality and love in a memorable read. Highly recommended.	2001-09-21
1835331:US	49693975	R1HJSSF1EVDQP2	0821771035	187163027	A Stranger's Kiss (Midnight Mask)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Second chances -- Recommended	Rafe Howard had been a hard, thoughtless man before he returned to England after the war against the French. He suffers from amnesia, recalling only vague, illusive dreams. A chance meeting with the Midnight Bandit kept him from pursuing the little he gleaned from his dreams. Believing his daughter dead, Rafe returns to his home to a hostile wife who refuses to live with him and blanket animosity from his contemporaries. Rafe has lost everything, including his daughter, his wife Andria, and his memories. Soon, however, he realizes their daughter is not dead. A mysterious woman had been planted in his life with false information. But the question remains as to why anyone would cause such pain to the grieving parents. <br />Andria misses the powerful, special connection she had shared with her husband. But after a child died that they had loved as their own, the pain seemed to eat at their relationship. Even the birth of their daughter wasn't enough to keep them together. In the last months they had been together, suspicion and false blame replaced gentle love and tender caresses. After Rafe left and her child disappeared, Adria visited every orphanage in London desperate to find her daughter. Resigned to her grief, Andria's life becomes touched with havoc once again with Rafe's return. She'd prefer to deny her feelings for the man she married after he caused so much pain.<br />Author Maria Greene pens an irresistible historical romance in A STRANGER'S KISS. Revenge and true love provide powerful motivation in this tale of betrayal and redemption. Part of the Midnight Mask miniseries, A STRANGER'S KISS reads beautifully also as a stand-alone. Sketching the deepest of emotions with grace, Greene creates moving and memorable characters. Unfortunately, the distrust between the characters results in a tense reading experience. Recommended.	2001-09-19
1836311:US	49693975	R2OA3XL2DLO3DL	0821768387	370326632	Every Move She Makes	Books	5	2	3	N	N	He'd been the guy every girl wanted and every parent feared	When Spring Creek, Alabama's worst bad boy finally makes parole after fifteen years of imprisonment, someone's eager to send Reed Conway back to those steel bars. Indeed, perhaps the same someone who framed him for the murder of his abusive stepfather, Junior Blalock, in the first place. While everyone in town knew the evil intent of his stepfather, Reed was one who badly beat the older man, and it was his knife found at the murder scene with only his fingerprints.<br />Judge Ella Porter was only a teenager when Reed was convicted. Her father was a DA then, moving onto becoming a senator while she now presides in Spring Creek's court. Shortly following Reed's release, Ella receives sexually titillating, anonymous letters richly reminiscent of the letters Reed sent her to taunt her father fifteen years ago. Despite Reed's prostrations of innocence, when letters escalate into danger, the whole town seems determined to convict Reed a second time. As Ella and Reed join forces to discover the true killer, they find themselves drawn together in firey passion. Obviously, someone watches EVERY MOVE SHE MAKES, and will stop at nothing to keep Reed from uncovering the truth behind his conviction. <br />Southern small town corruption and secrets come to light in Beverly Barton's EVERY MOVE SHE MAKES, revealing the hidden passions of love and murder. Intricately plotted, Barton presents a risk cast of suspects, from a senator to a mechanic, cutting across economics and politics a blistering combination. As tension builds between Ella and Reed, they find themselves torn between past and present, truth and lies, danger and passion. Very highly recommended.	2001-09-18
1837550:US	49693975	R218OS8WQ3J1HT	0671657860	882252700	Many Lives, Many Masters: The True Story of a Prominent Psychiatrist, His Young Patient, and the Past-Life Therapy That Changed Both Their Lives	Books	5	20	24	N	N	Very highly recommended	Trained in the scientific method, Dr. Brian Weiss graduated from the Yale University School of Medicine where he also completed his residency in psychiatry. Currently Chairman of Psychiatry at the Mount Sinai Medical Center in Miami, Dr. Weiss had always followed the conservative paths of his profession; that is, until remarkable patient entered his office and profoundly changed his life both professionally and privately.<br />Catherine arrived at the Department of Psychiatry seeking relief from chronic fears and anxieties. Eighteen months of intensive psychotherapy did not eliminate Catherine's anxiety and panic attacks. Using hypnotherapy to regress Catherine to the beginning of early trauma, Dr. Weiss had unexpected results. Catherine spontaneously moved beyond her birth into this life to account previous lives. Their resulting explorations of Catherine's previous lives not only healed her anxiety disorder, but resulted in spiritual lessons for Dr. Weiss. <br />Between the recounting of various lives, Catherine would pause and wait. In those quite moments while she would wait for the next lifetime, another voice would come forward. The voice of the Masters, those who guide souls from one lifetime to another, began speaking to Dr. Weiss, sharing knowledge, for &quot;by knowledge we approach God.&quot; The voice of the Masters, over the following months, imparted to Dr. Weiss his role as teacher. The result was a complete spiritual transformation that eradicated all of his fear of death and dying. <br />Brian L Weiss's MANY LIVES, MANY MASTERS has sat on my shelf for the better part of a year. I went looking this morning for the book I planned to review today, and couldn't find it. I later realized that the cats knocked it between bed and the nightstand. On impulse, I picked up this book instead; only a few pages in I realized why. In the devastating aftermath of this country's grief, finding answers and comfort is difficult, even for those far removed from the personal tragedy. Within the Weiss' words lie comfort, an understanding of the divine plan and the lessons we come to this planet to learn. Weiss' spiritual awakening touched my heart profoundly in the wake of the terrorist bombing, as the voices of the Masters remind us, no tragedy is pointless. Within the event lie important lessons. Very highly recommended.	2001-09-17
1837748:US	49693975	R3S3VPX2FSZYMV	0373790120	667463942	Body Heat (The Simply Series, Book 4)	Books	5	24	29	N	N	Sizzling! Very highly recommended	The days might be hot and humid, but New York City nights sizzle as Jack Lowell returns again and again to THE SIDEWALK CAFE to watch the sexy waitress. Just the sight of her rouses Jack's curiosity and encourages his imagination. Her blazing smile inspires a plethora of fantasies, feeding the raging inferno within. Indeed, few things have piqued his imagination since a shooting sidelined him and took out his partner. Yet even the shoulder injury and the determination to seek retribution for the loss of his fellow officer isn't enough to curb the desire that blazes with such a force that it causes him to return day after day just to watch her.<br />As the sizzling awareness rages into an inferno, Brianne Nelson's fantasies center around the sexy stranger who returns night after night to the cafe. Working two jobs and carrying immense responsibility has robbed her life of fun, and just the kick she gains from seeing her fantasy man is enough to add new vitality to Brianne nights. Her day job, however, soon leads to an incredible opportunity to make enough money for a life of her own. Rina, the woman who frequently accompanies the sexy stranger, hires Brianne to be her brother's physical therapist. While Rina is out of town over the summer, Brianne to moves into Rina's luxurious Manhattan apartment to work with her brother.<br />Jack doesn't need a live in therapist, nor does he want his sister's matchmaking. And now the woman he's desired for months is becoming his roommate. Once Brianne arrives, it's impossible to cover his previous shoulder recovery. Jack was using his injury as a cover to find the perpetrator of his partner's killer, and Brianne can't be fooled. Worse, as a cop with a bad marriage and divorce behind him, Jack doesn't need a new relationship. And his interest in Brianne is too much to contain in a no strings, unemotional affair. Something sizzles between them more than just lust. Further, her presence puts her in danger as the drug-dealing murdererrealizes she can be used to get to Jack.<br />It promises to be a long, hotly seductive summer in BODY HEAT as author Carly Phillips playfully uses the skill of physical therapy to create a heated romance. Indeed, Phillips works massage therapy, water therapy and glass lined workout rooms into erotic encounters that fuel the heat to become a blazing inferno. In addition, the sympathetic characters and fast paced plot keep the reader thoroughly absorbed. Provocative, seductive, and hot, BODY HEAT is a keeper that comes very highly recommended.	2001-09-17
1839301:US	49693975	R9TUCFNGKNWDF	0373441258	590194209	One Bride Too Many / One Groom To Go	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Keeps the giggles coming -- Highly recommended	ONE BRIDE TOO MANY and ONE GROOM TO GO, two new releases combined into one Duets book, tell the humorous path of matrimony for twins when their grandfather Marsh demands that they marry. Refusal to marry means that he'll sell the Bailey stock and their mother will lose control of the business.<br />In ONE BRIDE TOO MANY Cole Bailey crashes a wedding reception looking for a bride of his own. When he unexpectedly rescues the bridesmaid's dress from permanent damage, he's surprised to see the changes time has made to a former classmate. Tess Morgan's transformation leaves him breathless, but a man can't date a &quot;pal.&quot; When Tess looses a bet to him, Cole persuades her to play matchmaker for him. Friday nights will never be the same as he manipulates and monopolizes his way through the weekends and Tess sits home alone, or worse finds herself on a double date with him.<br />In ONE GROOM TO GO, Zach Bailey figures that if he can hold out until his brother and new bride are pregnant, he can get off the marriage hook with his grandfather. He hopes that his grandfather will be amenable to passing his shares of stock to a new Bailey, thereby ensuring that his mother remains in her current position in the company. Until news of unclehood arrives, Zach convinces the host of a home improvement show, Megan Danbury, to becomes his &quot;fake girlfriend&quot; in exchange for saving her career. But Megan is trouble personified on screen and off. She needs him to keep the station owner happy and her career intact, but she'd really prefer to tell him what he can do with his hammer and stripper. <br />Jennifer Drew provides fans of romantic comedy two amusing romps in this Duet selection. The bad-boy Bailey twins find themselves yielding to the demands of the heart with entrancing characterizations and a fun plot. A quick, light read filled with witty dialogue and outrageous situations, this Duet selection comes highly recommended.	2001-09-15
1841997:US	49693975	R36B1KZP9HEZSI	0373710119	98240125	The Payback Man	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A beautifully rendered tale -- very highly recommended	Carolyn McSpareen's Creature Comfort miniseries began in July with THE MONEY MAN and continues this month with THE PAYBACK MAN. Both books center around the Creature Comfort Veterinarian Clinic, which treats large and small animals including exotic pets. McSpareen's remarkable insight in human and animal hearts makes THE PAYBACK MAN an especially memorable read.<br />A jury of his peers found Stephen Chadwick of murdering his wife - a murder he did not commit. Gone are his beloved wife, a profitable business, and his beloved sport of polo. He's stayed sane these last three years by planning ways to kill Neil Waters, his brother-in-law, business partner, best friend, and murder of his wife. When he sees unexpectedly sights Eleanor, the connection is visceral - as if they were alone. He knew that if he'd met her at cocktail party or at a polo match, his response would have been the same. She not only stirs his blood, but she stirs the imagination. She touches the humane parts of him he thought long buried and forgotten.<br />Dr. Eleanor Grayson's first glimpse of Steve as he disembarked from a prison bus was unwanted moment of recognition. Two years have passed since the death of her much loved husband and the resulting financial devastation. Hard work makes it possible to cope with loss, and Eleanor works very hard. She works not only for Creature Comforts, but she also has accepted a position at the prison helping them to build a prize heard of Beefmaster cattle. Her position brings her into close contact with the prisoners assigned to her. Soon Eleanor finds her compassionate nature reaching out in unexpected ways. She also feels a powerful pull toward Stephen, who is absolutely forbidden. Ironically, she also feels more comfortable with some of the prisoners than she does with the guard assigned to her.<br />As the daughter of a police officer, I found myself constantly challenging the storyline simply because prisoners are not good heros. Despite my prejudice, Ifound myself drawn into this powerfully told tale that gently broke down my reservations. Author Carolyn McSparren skillfully weaves a convincing tale of love with believable characters and wonderful secondary characters. Bigalow Little, for example, the gentle giant who lacks great intelligence yet processes the skills of a horse whisperer with all animals, isn't a character I'll ever forget and I hope pops up in another novel. In addition, the update on favorite characters from the previous work doesn't detract from the storyline, yet lends continuance. A beautifully rendered tale, THE PAYBACK MAN comes very highly recommended. I do hope this author continues this wonder series!	2001-09-11
1842004:US	49693975	RPGBMYLKETFNS	0373710127	429432224	Mr. and Mrs. Wrong (9 Months Later / Harlequin SuperRomance, No. 1012)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Spontaneous combustion - Very highly recommended	Erin Cahill, nicknamed Lucky, and her husband of eleven months Jack just can't seem to work things out. They are crazy about each other, but with intensely different goals and values, they can't seem to resolve their differences. Nevertheless, they also can't seem to stay away from one another. When Jack returns yet again to the cabin along Alabama's Black Warrior River to supposedly look for something he'd left behind, the author remarks: &quot;The only thing they found were the zippers to each other's pants.&quot; That single comment hooked this reviewer!<br />On one hand, Jack's reticence about revealing his past initially adds an element of danger and mystery. Eventually his silence simple irritates her. On the other hand, Jack doesn't like her job, her home and her lifestyle. It's always the same. He comes back, they sleep together, she cries, and he leaves for his apartment where he feels guilty for her tears. The only thing they have in common in overpowering passion for each other...soon a baby. Lucky fears that this pregnancy will destroy any chance they had of saving their marriage. When MR AND MRS WRONG seem at impasse, however, circumstances conspire to force Lucky and Jack to reevaluate their priorities. As an old mystery resurfaces, they are thrust into danger and intrigue. <br />These multifaceted characters meet their challenges with grace, demonstrating the transformational power of love. Indeed, Lucky's one of the most eccentric, powerful women I've met in romantic fiction. Her inability to complete a task because she's interrupted by watching a spider weave a web, for example, gives her a refreshing spontaneity, yet she never crosses the line into immature nor irresponsible. Further, the multi layered plot keeps the pages turning quickly, as does the witty dialogue and author's flair for the dramatic. A lovely, fun read, this one goes on the keeper shelf.	2001-09-11
1842196:US	49693975	RR069SEAAM9WP	0373763905	808084139	Fortune'S Secret Daughter (The Fortunes Of Texas: The Lost Heirs)	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Lively and entertaining -- highly recommended	Pilot Guy Blackwolf will brave even the most miserable storm in the wilderness of Alaska to fulfill a favor. But it turns out to be Holly Douglas who performs a rescue, pulling his from his downed plane before he can drown. He'd come to Alaska to change her life, and she saves his instead. When she learns why he's there, however, she may just take him right back out to Twin Pines Lake and drown him after all.<br />Holly takes Guy home with her because there's no place else for him to stay. The cozy apartment offers her refuge from the small town, trailer park existence she left behind in Texas. Here no one judges her, or sets impossible standards. Therefore, she doesn't welcome Guy's news, when he finally reveals it, that he's there to find a missing heiress. She'd prefer to go right on missing. <br />This fiercely independent doesn't take well to most women's fantasy come true of rags to riches in FORTUNE'S SECRET DAUGHTER. With a determination to create a life on her own terms, this fiery woman meets her match in this sexy hero that also equals most women's fantasies. With a fun, fast paced plot and excellent characterizations, FORTUNE'S SECRET DAUGHTER is a fun addition to this miniseries. Highly recommended.	2001-09-11
1842267:US	49693975	R21R9A1HIXDDJ4	0399148019	723229047	The Absence of Nectar	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Recipient of the WordWeaving Award for Excellence	Eleven-year-old Alice doesn't believe Simon's soft words and prostration of grief regarding the loss of his previous wife and son. She sees secrets where her mother and brother see tragedy. While Simon Jester enters the heart of her brother Boone and mother Meg, Alice's heart remains hard. This man, who claims to be the megaphone of God, deplores all that would betray him, believing all children will eventually betray their parents. Simon's own secrets offer betrayal and danger to those around him, and Alice knows he will kill both her and her brother. <br />When temperatures rise and the sun beats down, Simon's stepchildren have learned to associate the heat with Simon's temper. Beneath the slow and careful words lies rage. When the line appears between his eyes, lurking danger comes to the forefront, threatening all they hold important. Their mother, wrapped in the memory of bees and perfection, is of no help; that is, until the night she slips into their room and utters only a single word. Run.<br />Boone loves to rescue and honor torn and beautiful things. He loves butterflies, for example, but cannot bear to kill them, so he finds the damaged bodies of those that are already dead for his collection. In the same vein, Alice has tolerated her brother's devotion to a girl from the headlines of papers for years. Persely Snow had been found insane and therefore not responsible for putting cyanide in her parent's Tang. Now she escapes all institutions that attempt to hold her. Boone's years of letters lure Persely into their lives, setting into motion a series of events resulting in devastation and redemption. <br />Author Kathy Hepinstall presents a rare and astonishing tale in THE ABSENCE OF NECTAR. These characters have real depth, creating poignant, thought provoking responses the reader. The themes of hope and stunning helplessness in the face of cruelty and evil resound throughout the novel, echoing in the harsh reality of abuse and in the desperate acts of children. The remarkable metaphor of the bees speaks to the loss of order, of safety, and predictability in a world unprotected by mothers and threatened with poison by fathers. THE ABSENCE OF NECTAR comes very highly recommended.	2001-09-11
1842269:US	49693975	R3SMR1UHRYGQMK	0373710089	942596414	A Montana Family: Big Sky Country (Harlequin Superromance No. 1008)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Tangled relationships -- Very highly recommended	It took sixteen years for Dr Jolie Maxell to move back to Paradise Corners, Montana. Her family's appeal to move closer and the death of a patient caused her to reevaluate her priorities and stimulated the change of location. As she watched her patient Wendell Hill die with no money but a plethora of mourners, Jolie had realized there would be few to mourn her if she passed. Such a realization caused her to seek her family, despite the many years of troubling relationships. What she found was animosity on the part of her hometown, suspicion and rumors abounding. Her brother's in huge trouble and her father's trying to ignore a serious heart condition. She also found the dream she thought would never be hers. <br />Building contractor Matt Dawson came to Paradise Corners seeking relief from a questionable Chicago neighborhood for his children. Four years ago his wife passed away from cancer. She'd been his love, his inspiration and his dream come true, and her passing left both him and the children bereft. Having had one beautiful relationship, Matt doesn't expect another to come his way, although the children could really use a mother. But when his daughter becomes ill, Matt finds himself relying on Jolie for more than just medical care. <br />A multi layered plot lends A MONTANTA FAMILY by Roxanne Rustand complexity and charm. The secondary characters, including a sheep guarding llama and puppy afraid of dust bunnies, bring a bit of humor to a tale filled with deep, intense emotion. The secondary human characters neatly tie the novel to the other parts of the miniseries without bogging down the pace of the plot, allowing the novel to read well as a stand alone, or part of more complex work. Further, the hero and heroine are well-balanced, believable characters living with ordinary challenges and extraordinary circumstances. The hero's daughter's diabetes also lends realism, both propelling the plot and creating an interesting secondary plot line. Very highly recommended.	2001-09-11
1842481:US	49693975	R3KEM9RX8YO96	0373763913	4822761	Sleeping With The Sultan (Sons Of The Desert: The Sultans) (Harlequin Desire)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Exotically dazzling -- Highly recommended	carefully orchestrated plot brings together chance and opportunity, leading actress Dana Morningstar to playing the role of a lifetime. When she and Sheikh Ashraf initially meet at fund raising event, sparks of attraction become transparent to onlookers when the Sheikh kisses her in front of a room full of people. Despite the sizzle, they both walk away, never anticipating another encounter.<br />Then her sister calls and Dana agrees to meet the men who hold her sister's gambling debt. She lacks the funds to pay the debt huge debt herself, and refuses to ask their father and risk the shock of his youngest daughter's behavior leading to another heart attack. Now Dana has orders to help these men collect a supposed debt with the Sheikh by informing them where and when they can serve a subpoena. Further, Dana has her own agenda with the Sheikh, and what she plans to say to him is not on any casino owner's agenda.<br />Author Alexandra Sellers once again demonstrates her masterful storytelling skills, weaving together the gilded world of privilege spanning two continents with extraordinary characterizations and a marvelous plot. The elaborate world of fund raising and gambling where extravagant sums change hands creates a dazzling background for this unlikely love story. The clash of culture and values results in an entertaining tension, thereby presenting a plot both impossible yet highly probable. An intriguing web of deception and lust, SLEEPING WITH THE SULTAN comes highly recommended.	2001-09-11
1842485:US	49693975	R1FP1T4NG44RYL	0373763891	404826405	When Jayne Met Erik (20 Amber Court) (Harlequin Desire)	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Improbable dreams come to life - highly recommended	Instead of exploring personal experiences with wondrous erotic activities, Jayne finds herself alone following the death of her parents and raising twin siblings for four years. Now that the twins are off to Indiana University, she's landed a new job at a jewelry store and moved into a two-bedroom apartment. To bad that on her really awful, no good day, Jayne learns the jewelry shop may fall victim to hostile takeover. So much for the twin's tuition money. A bit hostile herself as she vents to a coworker, Jayne doesn't expect her words to be overheard by a Prince Charming.<br />Erik Randolf might look like Prince Charming, but he's really a wolf, preferring a playboy lifestyle to work or responsibility. But then, he can afford it. Too bad his thirtieth birthday is only two weeks away, and the only way he inherits his third of the multimillionaire dollar estate is if he's indulging in wedded bless. As he slogs through the rain proposing to women that seem appropriate, to him at least, he's surprised when the first three turn him down. But then, he needs an engagement ring anyway, when he at last finds a blushing bride, so he heads to his favorite jewelry store. Kismet, karma, destiny, fate, something at least, is at work. Serendipitously overhearing a conversation about the need to marry a millionaire, Erik proposes on the spot. Yep, she thinks he's crazy; but a charming, sexy kind of crazy rather than a homicidal maniacal kind of crazy. Somewhere along the way, Jayne also accepts, agreeing to a year long marriage of convenience. But there's nothing convenient about this marriage, especially their mutual attraction.<br />Like a modern day fairy tale, WHEN JAYNE MET ERIK brings improbable dreams to life. While billionaires don't usually shop for wives while picking up an engagement ring at the local shop, the premise is enchanting. Brought to life with Elizabeth Bevarly's talented pen, the result is delightful. The author's tone maintains a fresh originality remainingat once profoundly ridiculous, yet imminently entertaining. Highly recommended.	2001-09-11
1842656:US	49693975	R19QMIKFNVAH7Q	0373763883	952097399	Comanche Vow	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Lively and intense -- Highly recommended	A carjacking resulted in Grant's shooting, and his final request. He requests that Nick make a wife exchange, a tradition in the Comanche old ways that would require Nick to care for his brother's wife and child in the event of his death. Nick has debated his responsibility to Elaina and Lexie for two years. But he fears Elaina's reaction if she ever learns of the mistake he made that cost his brother's life.<br />An elementary teacher, Elaina helps other people's children even as she's at a loss as to help her own. Lexie has taken the death of her father hard, retreating from friends and exhibiting depression. Elaina agrees to this trip to visit her Uncle Nick hoping that visiting her father's brother will help Lexie. The last thing she expected was a proposal or to feel attracted to her husband's brother. Yet she can't resist the antics of the Comanche bad boy and the juvenile delinquent as they settle into a life together.<br />Sheri Whitefather chooses a rather daring theme by marrying a woman to her deceased husband's brother. Certainly not incest, yet both having feelings of guilt that must be overcome. Yet the lure of the forbidden binds this couple in its passionate embrace as they begin to fall in love. Whitefeather's skillful manipulation of Comanche tradition and societal mores makes for a fascinating read. These rich characterizations and intense emotional experiences make COMANCH VOW highly recommended.	2001-09-11
1842749:US	49693975	R1UM5VQCBWDUMC	0373710100	207188787	Intensive Caring: Emergency! (Harlequin Superromance No. 1010)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Intensive emotions -- Highly recommended	The promise of an explosive sexual attraction keeps Dr. Portia Bailey trying to maintain her distance from race car driver Nelson Gregory. Despite her aloofness, Nelson pursues her with a passion, indulging her in the most extravagant and unusual gifts she's ever received. Nevertheless, she's not particularly interested in a relationship with a man who indulges in extreme sports, living life in the moment without regard for safety. Portia assumes he's around for the thrills, and when the new wears off, the playboy will off to new fascinations. <br />When Nelson found out that he had a strong chance of inheriting the devastating neurological disease that destroyed his father's life, he made a number of changes in his life. He divorced the woman he loved and distanced himself from his mother rather than allow them to suffer while watching the disease progress. He began pursuing dangerous sports in an effort to live in the moment and ignore the possibilities of the future. But when he learns of Portia's special gift, and the renewed possibilities of the future, Nelson finds himself radically reevaluating his life once again. <br />Author Bobby Hutchinson maintains a light, lively tone in the face of devastating illness and its consequences in INTENSIVE CARING. Striking the perfect balance of irreverence and seriousness, she explores the devastating effects of tragic illness, turning tragedy into a triumph of the human spirit. Secondary character Juliet, who is mentally challenged, also lends wonderful humor and complexity to this marvelous novel. Additionally, Portia's psychic ability to read auras lends a touch of a new age spirit that is both welcome and different from the standard fair of genre romance. Highly recommended.	2001-09-11
1842834:US	49693975	R1Q972WN43XV6C	0373710135	100566077	Lost But Not Forgotten (Harlequin Superromance No. 1013)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award of Excellence	When he finds an urn at the side of the road, Mitch Valetti feels as if he's been given renewed purpose in life. He lost the woman he'd previously dated to another man. His best friend and ex-partner just married a woman and they are adopting quadruplets. In addition, he's still recovering from injuries received in the line of duty, and that brush with death has caused him to completely reevaluate his priorities. He's retired from the force and turned to ranching full time, taking small jobs as an investigator on the side. The tragic urn piques his imagination, luring him with its sad untold story.<br />Fleeing the men who seek her, Gillian randomly turns down a country lane. When she blows a tire, she stops to change it; not realizing that's she's leaving one of her suitcases behind. In that suitcase is her daughter Katie's urn inscribed with a single date, 11-18-00. She refuses to just leave the urn behind, choosing to stay in the small town until she's done everything possible to find her daughter's urn. Concerned for her dwindling funds, Katie rents a room for a few weeks and takes a waitress job until she locates the urn. She meets Mitch while waiting tables, and their connection is immediate.<br />Later Gillian learns that the road where she lost her suitcase also leads to Mitch's ranch. Since her only sighting of the thugs following her occurred on the same lane, Gillian believes there might be a connection between the killers and Mitch. Despite her concern for Mitch's possible connection to the killers, his presence makes her feel safe for the first time since her ex-husband was gunned down. When she realizes he has Katie's urn, Gillian's not certain she can trust him with the truth -- or the much bigger secrets that threaten her life.<br />Roz Denny Fox once again pens absolutely memorable romance in LOST BUT NOT FORGOTTEN. Readers who loved THE BABY COP will adore her newest release. Fox gracefully works previously loved characters into the narrative without slowing its pace in the slightest. Further, her fabulous knack for the unexpected gives this novel a startling beginning that grabs the reader's attention with the first line, and doesn't let go until the last. Indeed, Fox has a marvelous talent for creating gripping plots and dazzling characters, making her one of Superromances hottest stars. Very highly recommended.	2001-09-11
1842867:US	49693975	R1ILGR6TJIU5LB	0373168926	442555125	Biological Bond	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Dreams do come true -- Very highly recommended	Fourteen years ago lawyer Rebecca Martinson unwilling placed her child for adoption. She's never forgotten that haunting first cry of life and the child she never held. Now in family practice, she buries her past in a successful career based on helping families in need. Until one shocking day, that is, when Sam Winslow enters her office and declares himself the father of a dying daughter in need of her biological mother's bone marrow. <br />Desperate to save his daughter, Sam had the court records opened so he could track down his daughter Melanie's birth mother. Now he faces the adult version of his beloved daughter complete with unexpected and unwanted attraction. When Rebecca demands a month to meet and get to know her daughter, Sam capitulates with the understanding that afterward she will walk away, and Melanie will never know the visitor was her birth mother.<br />Both Rebecca and Sam know the risk heartbreak by allowing Melanie to meet her mother. They don't realize that they also risk heartbreak by spending time together. Rebecca's family are judges and doctors; Sam owns a farm. Rebecca has a successful career and Sam doesn't see how she could ever trade her power suits for an apron. With all their differences, however, they share a daughter they both love. <br />THE BIOLOGICAL BOND delivers an unexpected love story with tender empathy. Indeed, author Jamie Denton's flair for creating believable characters and a bond that go beyond blood result in a memorable, beautiful tale. As the biological mother, adoptive father and beloved daughter each reveal their innermost fears, the reader's heart can't resist a flush of understanding. Further, the unique family environment, rich characterization, and revelation of secrets keeps the pages turning. THE BIOLOGICAL BOND comes very highly recommended.	2001-09-11
1844133:US	49693975	R224BCFQEZVT9N	0595173438	764976223	Jeremy Grabowski's Crazy Summer in Stormville!	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fast paced adventure -- Highly recommended	1978 in Stormville, New York finds Jeremy Grabowski wondering if he's going to survive another crazy summer. Absolute frustration with his brother and sister leaves Jeremy wishing that he'd been born an only child. His mother cautions him to be careful what he wishes for. Worse, now he finds out that his family might be moving to Arizona. Jeremy doesn't want to move, even if his dad promises they'll have their own swimming pool. Stormville's a fun place to live, even if a girl likes him, his brother and sister drive him crazy, and the worst bully ever lives just down the road. <br />Author Richard W. Carlson Jr draws from his own childhood experience of living in Stormville, New York to create JEREMY GRABOWSKI'S CRAZY SUMMER IN STORMVILLE! Written from the perspective of a ten-year-old, this fun tale will be immediately appreciated by that age-range, though the rest of us may have to remember being ten to &quot;get it.&quot; But once you've got it, Carlson has a knack for sweeping you away in the madcap adventure with extreme enthusiasm, when living for the moment was the only way to live. Jeremy's friends and family are vividly realized, with political and historical background that will keep adults entertained as well as preteens. JEREMY GRABOWSKI'S CRAZY SUMMER IN STORMVILLE! is highly recommended.	2001-09-10
1846954:US	49693975	R2MM7B6IRJ3DY1	1588513513	202500840	Bloodsworth Island	Books	3	0	1	N	N	When free thought's eliminated -- Recommended	Dr. Marcus Gallagher holds virtually omnipotent power over Bloodsworth Island in the Chesapeake Bay. His followers are a carefully assembled group of doctors, a &quot;body&quot; thoroughly indoctrinated into his principles. Hs myriad principles rely upon eliminating free thought and complete dedication to his dream of eliminating disease. Rigid control of the doctors in his employee insures that no one on the outside knows of the methods Dr Gallagher intends to employ while taking funding from the Federal Government to further his research. Rather than healing those plagued with debilitating disease, such as Cystic Fibrosis, he plans to eradicate the population who carry the genes for such disease. Human testing has already begun.<br />The book begins with Gene Nolan, one of three doctors sent to Orani tribe in the Ecuadorian rain forest. The doctors inject each tribe member with an immunization that actually kills with great rapidity. When a doctor challenges what they are doing, the Paladin Alfred injects the dissenter with the killing shot. As he dies, he breaks one of the Principles, he tells Gene that no one leaves &quot;the body&quot; alive. When Gene asks their leader Alfred about what happened, he's reminded of the seventh principle; that is, &quot;Components of the body would be told whatever they needed to know.&quot; <br />The overly done theme of research scientists playing God-like eugenics achieves a new freshness in the hands of authors Jeff Slate and David Rearden. These authors combine many of the strongest elements of our culture to new ends, constructing a dangerous and destructive world. The echoes of Big Brother watching, keeping the &quot;body&quot; in line with careful observance and control seems all too plausible in this information age of easy tracking and recording. Likewise, the echoes the rituals and rites that have brought clarity and insight to many religious followers give this fascinating novel chilling spiritual overtones. In addition, the Orani tribe lends a chilling lesson as their systematic destruction ends with their village burning, destroying all evidence in a frightening echo of the Holocaust. The simplistic plot could have used a few more twists to fully satisfy this reader. In addition, the author's tone sounds more like a reporter giving the facts rather portrayed the expected emotion; however, it still makes for a fascinating read. Recommended.	2001-09-07
1847253:US	49693975	RRZRA5OZNG1J1	0821769030	99560265	Grand Design: The Hope Chest (Ballad Romances)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A whimsical escape -- Recommended	There's something winningly whimsical and marvelously magical about the premise of the power of a hope chest and equinoxes winging characters across time to find healing and love. A hope chest found in the historic Chesterfield, now undergoing renovation provides the focal point for this series. In Karen Fox's GRAND DESIGN, the third book of the Hope Chest miniseries, it's the nameplate from a portrait that carries frustrated artist Cynda Madison back in time to find her love. <br />Cynda Madison finds a strikingly handsome face beneath the years of filth in a portrait she's been commissioned to restore. Her own artwork lacks the sweeping passion apparent in every brush stroke, leaving her wishing for such bold zeal. When she's swept back in time, Cynda immediately recognizes Prince Dimitri Karakov from the portrait, finding the living man even sexier than the portrait. Her warnings of danger, however, fall on deaf ears when she tries to warn him that he's to die on December 12th. <br />Duty comes before pleasure for Prince Dimitri Karakov, even when it comes to Cynda. He wearies of the husband hunting vixens at the Chesterfield, where he's accompanying his grandmother while she takes in the healing waters. Cynda brings a welcome respite with her forthright, direct speech and lack of flirtatiousness. While she's much too forward for a servant, her intelligence and quick-wittedness makes her irresistible. When his younger brother shows interest in Cynda, Dimitri's unprepared for his overwhelming jealousy. Too bad he's been pledged since birth to a proper woman for a Prince. <br />Readers who enjoyed the previous two installments of this miniseries as well as fans of author Karen Fox's PRINCE OF CHARMING will thrill to this newest offering, GRAND DESIGN. As in PRINCE OF CHARMING, Fox brings her love of painting to GRAND DESIGN, when a portrait wings this heroine back in time. With her characteristic ingenuity, Fox paints a blend of the fantastic and the mundane, bringing enormous passion to her canvas in this portrait of love. Favorite secondary characters of this miniseries seamlessly connect the novel to the other parts of the miniseries, in addition to introducing two willful, strong-minded main characters. A playful, lighthearted read, GRAND DESIGN is perfect reading for an afternoon. Recommended.	2001-09-07
1847264:US	49693975	R27OZIJDBH5W6L	0870744593	191271482	Texas Bound: Book III: 22 Texas Stories (Southwest Life and Letters)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A fantastic collection -- Very highly recommended	I've always known Southern writing to have its own flavor, its own texture, its own flow. Like the speech that labels a southern with the dropped 'g' so does Southern writing take on a tone that is distinctive and different. Despite my background in literature, however, until now I've neglected Texan writing, with its infinite differences that strike at the common elements of the human spirit. Indeed, I've now learned that Southern writing, Texas style, is a genre all its own. With the fluid grace of a hot summer day and iced tea, TEXAS BOUND: BOOK III reveals the people and the land make Texas writing its own sub-genre.<br />From cowboys to common experience, these authors capture disdain for social fripperies and Wal-Mart sex appeal. Ordinary experiences take on freshness with distinctive language that becomes trademark for Texas style, as does the capturing of flow of conversation, and the flavors of pepper and pickled okra. Ordinary struggles become extraordinary when facing pregnancy or death. Indeed, as William J. Cobb says as he captures the movement of time and tragedy, &quot;things get boring without trouble.&quot; And trouble comes extra large in Texas.<br />TEXAS BOUND moves with the perfection and grace of masterful storytelling. The words on the page hold the rhythm and cadence of speech, lending each story a sense of immediacy and importance. The simplest elements of life take on richer meaning through the act of observance and recounting. While the stories move from passionate to poignant, from humorous to tragic, each will capture the heart and imagination. Very highly recommended.	2001-09-07
1848288:US	49693975	R1QZ9F51VCWZAB	1551668327	586279762	Witness	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Fantastic characterizations! Highly recommended	When Carlo Giovessi executes a man for stealing drugs from him, a witness unwittingly puts her life on the line. Pianist Lauren Brownly hears her own death ordered when mob boss Carlo realizes she hasn't left the nightclub. She reports the killing to the Denver PD believes she's Carlo's mistress. Now the FBI steps into the case, planning to keep Lauren safe until she can testify. Agent Sam Grey Wolf Rowlins is assigned to the case.<br />Sam sets aside his previous investigation into an insider turned rogue to assume care of Lauren. The Bureau has been investigating Carlo for years, but every time they got close, something went wrong from tapered evidence to dead witnesses. Extreme coincidence suggests the truth to lie with a corrupt agent. When a plane crash-lands Sam and Lauren miles from civilization and obviously pursued by FBI agents gone bad, they must hike through knee-deep snow and blizzard conditions to reach safety. As they learn to rely upon and trust one another, the ember of attraction lead to a fiery passion even the deepest snows can't drown. <br />Sam's antagonism and aloofness toward Lauren, unfairly earned, can initially alienate the reader, but the feelings his ill humor conceal will sway even the hardest of hearts in THE WITNESS. This richly textured plot keeps the pages turning quickly, as Lauren and Sam's traitorous emotions and survival skills keep them alive. The vividly realized characterizations, including fascinating secondary characterizations, give THE WITNESS a fascinating depth. Further, Lauren's path to learning independence as she redefines her immediate past and her immediate future leads to terrific character growth. Highly recommended.	2001-09-06
1851357:US	49693975	RWMKNH4G0ZMVG	0970842406	416393510	A Reason To Live : The True Story of One Woman's Love, Courage and Determination to Survive	Books	5	2	2	N	N	&quot;May God have mercy on your soul.&quot;	The condemnation was neither a surprise nor was it undeserved because Ronal Raymond Woomer committed one of the most heinous strings of crime ever perpetrated in the state of South Carolina. Through the careful gathering of facts, the deliberation and the sentencing, the criminal showed no remorse. Yet his horrific actions changed a number of lives forever. <br />The plan seemed simple. Skaar and Woomer would get directions from coin dealer Whitehead and drive to the small town where John Turner lived. After robbing the old man, they would leave him dead, take his coins back to Whitehead and get paid. If all went well, this would only be the first of a series of crimes. High on drugs and alcohol, Skaar and Woomer not only carried out their intended crime, but also went on a murdering spree that would leave bodies in three counties. In addition to theft and murder, they would commit kidnapping and rape. When on the verge of apprehension, Skaar commited suicide, leaving partner Woomer to take the fall.<br />The worst didn't pass with the conviction and sentencing of Woomer for victim Wanda Summers. Wanda is a woman of remarkable courage, more concerned during the perpetration of the crime for her friend that for herself, and afterward more concerned for her daughter and husband than for herself. But with much of her face destroyed, Wanda not only had to survive an attempted murder and testify against her perpetrator, she had to recover afterward. While press and well meaning supporters hale the time of recovery as getting back to normal, Wanda still had to endure surgery and deeper emotional healing. Grueling and intense, recovery was slow.<br />One of the most chilling true crime novels of our time, A REASON TO LIVE will haunt the reader long after the last page is turned. A REASON TO LIVE is a testament to both the strength of human spirit and to the power of evil. The combined talents of Billy Hills and Dale Hudson bring the criminal events, the trial and the consequences vividly to life without dwelling too deeply or too long in the grotesque atrocities committed, simply allowing the facts to speak for themselves. Despite the tragedy, the horror of disfigurement and the loss of life, these authors maintain their focus not on the criminal but on the victims and that their families, bringing their voices to the forefront, unlike typical true crime novels which focus on the criminal. The end result is powerful and persuasive, striking at the heart of the weakness of our criminal justice system thereby standing up for victims. A REASON TO LIFE is one of those remarkable novels that change the way we perceive justice and rights, as well as the way we prosecute criminals. Very highly recommended.	2001-09-04
1851639:US	49693975	R3S4UOS3Q1CSO8	0373271743	907876231	Renegade Steals A Lady	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Sizzle and suspicion -- Very highly recommended	She's a lowly canine cop. He's a renegade cop gone wrong. Once the department's best narcotics detective, Marco Angelosi lost his job, his freedom, and very nearly his life for a woman who seems to have wanted only a single night's pleasure. He underestimates their connection. One tumultuous night, in which they share an intimacy so profound that neither can shake the effects, connects them forever despite her refusal to see him again, even despite his arrest. <br />Only two things could keep Paige Burkett from Marco: prison and death. Prison's already failed. He'd been sentenced to four years for theft and tampering with evidence. He could have gotten less time if he had shown remorse or offered an explanation; instead, he stoically accepted his sentence. In fact, Marco cut a deal with a drug lord to protect Paige; now his partners have reneged on the agreement, setting up the accident that should have killed him. Worse, his former officers comb the field for Marco, planning to return him to prison. <br />Marco had charmed her, bedded her, and beguiled her; now Paige has lost her heart and soul to the renegade cop. The juxtaposition of the secretive fugitive and the man who carves planes for children and bounces babies on his knees isn't lost on Paige. He's a man of shadow and light, and Paige fears she will always feel this chemical, electrical connection. Despite the facts that he shot at her and kidnapped her, Paige can't stop her feelings for Marco, or her determination to do her duty and turn him in.  <br />Vickie Taylor's THE RENEGADE STEALS A LADY weaves a tangled web of deception and corruption as this sexy hero protects his lady. Remarkably conceived, dazzlingly executed, the result is a complex tale of cops gone wrong that will keep the reader guessing till the end. Suspicion and lust give strong characters both motivation and conflict, resulting a sizzling read. These are memorable characters that live in the reader's heart and imagination long after thelast page is turned. Add a terrific dog, and THE RENEGADE STEALS THE LADY comes very highly recommended.	2001-09-03
1852782:US	49693975	R5NB2487XCDNV	0821768808	416330390	The Miner's Daughter: The Dream Maker	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Dreams do come true -- Very highly recommended	Under the unforgiving sun of the Mojave Desert, Mari Pottersby has learned the art of survival. Mari has lived alone for the last months, since her father died, trying to continue her father's dream of striking it rich with Marigold Mine, her namesake. A woman accustomed to harsh living and hard work, Peerless Studio's offer to use her mine for the price of $5,000 seems too good to be true. And the invitation to become the leading lady for the same pay likewise seems unbelievable. <br />Tony Ewing's father is an investor with Peerless Studios and Tony's been sent along to protect that investment. The last thing he expected was a hot hellion that captures his imagination, rubs him the wrong way, and refuses to back down to anyone. Further, Mari's illogical loyalty to her father's dream, her lack of respect for Tony and his money, and her smart mouth at once fascinate and appall him. As she gains polish, Tony finds that his fascination becomes quite dangerous to his heart.<br />Once again author Alice Duncan masterfully creates a fiercely independent, slightly offbeat heroine the reader can't help but love. What Mari lacks in propriety she makes up with her bodacious attitude. Mari sharply contrasts with the very wealthy, polished hero, resulting in memorable characterizations that demonstrate Duncan's style at her best. When combined with the unique background of the early days of motion pictures, the result is as hot as the Mojave Desert used for the setting. THE MINER'S DAUGHTER comes very highly recommended.	2001-09-03
1852950:US	49693975	R3528R1BF2FXZP	0373271727	894223804	Hero To Hold	Books	5	3	3	N	N	She needs a hero - Very highly recommended	Search and rescue medic John Maitland found her clad in nothing more than street cloths at nine thousand feet in January. A cross-country skier had spotted her, resulting in a call to the Rocky Mountain Search and Rescue team. When she pulls a gun on him, John reminds himself that hypothermia can cause mental confusion. He doesn't yet see the bruises on her arms - or around her neck.<br />When the redhead wakes in the hospital, she suffers from amnesia. A scrap of paper in her pocket provides her only identification, Hannah. While she might not recall her name, family, or that she's pregnant, Hannah does recall a sense of danger. A fact confirmed when she's dismissed from the hospital to go to a shelter. As John drives her there, an SUV tries to run them off the road at a curve over a dangerous ravine.<br />Hannah must discover her identity and the father of her baby. Somewhere in her forgotten past lurks the key to life - or death. By the time John realizes the extent of the danger to himself in his association with the mysterious redhead, both physically and emotionally, he's in over his head. She effortlessly touches a part of him he's held isolated for thirteen years. <br />Linda Castillo's HERO TO HOLD earned a well-deserved Romantic Times TOP PICK award. With fast paced action and complex characterization, HERO TO HOLD will hold the reader riveted. Courageous and heroic, John Maitland fills every woman's desire for a hero. The perfect blend of romance and danger once again demonstrates this masterful storyteller's skill. Very highly recommended.	2001-09-02
1853163:US	49693975	R2XWWRFQ2TJVL3	0373259476	411813873	Mighty Quinns: Conor (The Mighty Quinns)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Scintillating -- Highly recommended	Conor learned the lesson well at his father's knee: &quot;Love for a woman is the only thing that can bring a Mighty Quinn down.&quot; Believing that women are trouble, Conor guards his heart carefully. Working vice for the Boston Police Department, Conor strives to make life safe for others. He's gone from taking care of his brothers to taking care of the city. Now he's been assigned the boring assignment of taking care of a witness. With just one look at his witness, however, Conor comes to believe that his father's warnings are true. <br />Olivia Farrell had never done anything more illegal than fudging numbers on her tax return or surpassing a speed limit. She had been Boston's most successful antiques dealer. Too bad she didn't realize that her partner's bottomless wallet came from underworld connections. Now her business records have been impounded, her past scrutinized, her partner jailed, and her reputation hangs in tatters. Worse, a man wants her dead because she is a material witness in a murder and money laundering trial. She hates being vulnerable and dependent on someone else for help. Placed in a safe house, she dreams of the day she can get her life back. A leak in the department forces Conor and Olivia to run. <br />Somewhere along the way, Conor needs to find a purpose in protecting others again, and Olivia needs to feel in control of her life. The resulting conflict reveals author Kate Hoffmann has a flair for portraying the path back from disillusionment. THE MIGHTY QUINNS: CONOR. This first installation of a new miniseries boldly creates a dangerous world of murder, presenting strong conflict and terrific characterizations. Very highly recommended.	2001-09-02
1853444:US	49693975	R1200ALZ937PMR	0373244193	689317822	When I Dream Of You : The Windraven Legacy) (Silhouette Special Edition No. 1419) (Special Edition, 1419)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Treasures of the heart ï¿½ Highly recommended	Kyle Herriots grandmother used to tell him that one day hed find his treasure  now hes coming to understand that his grandmother was referring to treasures of the heart. But the Windoms and the Herroits are enemies, and Kyle certainly cant be attracted to Megan. Even as Kyle feels his morality, his need to hurry before life passes him by, he still tries to deny his growing attraction for his neighbor andenemy.<br />Their grandfathers had been enemies. Kyles not so sure what his fathers relationship was with her mother Bunny. He doesnt suspect his father of infidelity, but there was something between them the day they died, together on the sailboat. At eleven, hed seen them just before they set out, never to return. Nevertheless, a lot of secrecy had gone into the case. His mother believed she had been cheated upon. Megans grandfather had been a proud old man determined to squelch gossip. Now they are working together, delving into the murky depths of the water and the past to bring to light the truth of the day they each lost a parent. <br />Megan has no memories from before her mothers funeral. Doctors say its not uncommon for trauma to interfere with memory, but she still longs to know whats been left in the mist of the past. Nightmares serve as a constant reminder of the loss of her mother in the mysterious accident. And to now desire the enemy seems like a betrayal of her family and all she holds dear.<br />Carefully portrayed tumultuous feelings, torn between loyalty to family and needs of the heart, lend Laurie Paiges WHEN I DREAM OF YOU deep characterizations. As these wounded people find their way toward redemption, the challenges they face draw them together in an abiding love. Unable to deny their feelings, the past, or themselves, they learn lessons of self-acceptance and forgiveness, making WHEN I DREAM OF YOU a touching tale. An excellent conclusion to a terrific series, WHEN I DREAM OF YOU is highly recommended.	2001-09-02
1853928:US	49693975	R2KEK8NUDUFFMW	0373271735	693637857	This Perfect Stranger	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Dark overtones and secrets -- Very highly recommended	Until he meets Maggie Cortland, Cain MacCallister hasn't wanted anyone in his life since he lost Annie, which scares the hell out of him. Reckless, dangerous, self-contained, Cain can't seem to leave the past behind. But Maggie makes him want to forget the hurt of the past, making him forget to guard his secrets and his heart. She makes him want things a man like him, he believes, doesn't deserve. A drifter, he only comes to her ranch because he's hungry, and someone said she might need help. He doesn't intend to stay; there's no stopping when a man runs from the past and memories.<br />Maggie considers the secrets that Cain keeps carefully guarded part of a packaged deal. She respects his silence, his reticence, his ability to work, and his determination. And while she knows he can never remain a permanent part of his life, she also accepts the time they share together. She needs to be married if she wants to save the ranch. A thousand acres isn't too much to pay for a six-month marriage, even if it proves to be anything but convenient. Even her dark foreboding that this stranger could be dangerous for her doesn't dissuade Maggie from her plan. She won't let the town bully, Laird Donnelly, get what he's always wanted.<br />Author Barbara Ankrum brings creative flair to THIS PERFECT STRANGER. A number of romances have recently centered around men who spent time in prison, but Ankrum boldly creates a hero who justifiably served time for a crime of passion before his sentence was forgiven. Such strong characterization daringly separates THIS PERFECT STRANGER from the competition. Further, this heroine is no shrinking violent, taking on dangerous men and a hurtful past as she uncovers the truth behind the threats and her husband's death. A strongly plotted, memorable read, THIS PERFECT STRANGER comes very highly recommended.	2001-09-01
1854758:US	49693975	RQCRWXURYBO8V	0373244223	848282819	An Abundance Of Babies (Baby Of The Month Club) (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	They weren't supposed to be her babies	When Holly and Bret opted for a three-day vacation, Stephanie Yarbourough declined to accompany them. Stephanie was looking forward to giving her best friend these surrogate children. Then her friends died, leaving her nine months pregnant with their babies. Things only get worse when she leaves a pharmacy to see bad boy Sebastian Caine in the parking lot. He'd left town seven years ago, taking her heart with him. <br />When a parking lot accident brings on labor, Sebastian rushes to Stephanie's aid. An obstetrician, Sebastian delivers her twins in the back of someone's van. Crisis brings resurgence of old feelings as he struggles against the thoughts of the father of the twins. As he rides with the new mother and babies to the hospital, Sebastian finds himself longing for what he lost, little suspecting the truth behind Stephanie's pregnancy. Unfortunately, their past continues to rise up to interfere with their tentative conversations, revealing the depth of the conflict still between them. As he learns more about Stephanie's current situation, however, Sebastian feels compelled to drop in and help. But the question remains if his efforts are enough to make up for seven years and a painful breach of trust.<br />A tremendously fun beginning makes AN ABUNDANCE OF BABIES by Marie Ferrarella a delightful read. The improbability of old lives reuniting in a parking lot over the birth of twins springs to believable reality in this talented author's hands. Birthing has never been so humorous as this author makes it. And the emotional growth and changes on the part of these marvelous characters as they learn to forget the past and to create a future makes AN ABUNDANCE OF BABIES a must read. Very highly recommended.	2001-08-31
1854854:US	49693975	R268ES54CNYD0E	0373271697	399497149	Marrying McCabe (Silhouette Intimate Moments, 1099)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent characterizations! Recommended	After the shooting, Roma rushed to save her friend's life, all to aware of her vulnerability as she kneels beside his body. While the threat of violence is no novelty, never has she been left feeling so powerless. She knows that safety is only an illusion. Her family's wealth, high media profile, and business connections insure danger. Indeed, living years under siege has molded Roma into a formidable woman. A crack shot and fiercely independent, she also respects danger. Yet, Roma desires ordinary. She wants an ordinary life with an ordinary family and ordinary goals. Single father Ben, her new bodyguard, represents everything she wants but her social position denies.<BR>Hotshot security consultant Ben McCabe accepts the job simply because his friend called in a favor. Gray's baby sister needs babysitting after the attempt on her life. Ben's already had a crash course in rich and spoiled and doesn't wish to repeat it. But Roma isn't what he expected; in fact, she's an enigma, which still means trouble. The second he sees Roma, Ben feels off balance. This woman has uncharted depths; surprisingly, he wants to explore them all. But he must pose as her boyfriend, an intimate relationship that draws him even closer than marriage might, to protect her life. Emotions and attraction must take a back seat to business.<BR>Set in New Zealand, MARRYING MCCABE by Fiona Brand presents first class danger. Unfortunately, the heroine's scars occur long before the time frame of the book, leaving the reader outside of much of the action. While the vivid descriptions recreate the painful memories well, so much description goes into the past that the reader can't help but wish the novel had been much longer and written to include the past in a more fluid manner. Despite this weakness, this reviewer truly enjoyed this passionate, strong heroine who can shoot, lend first aid, and still move in the best of circles. The sexy, protective hero doesn't overshadow her own strengths, lending the book an unusual strength in a genre too dependent on weak heroines. Recommended.	2001-08-31
1855431:US	49693975	R11TN3AC6MLE67	0821768808	416330390	The Miner's Daughter: The Dream Maker	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Dreams do come true -- Very highly recommended	Under the unforgiving sun of the Mojave Desert, Mari Pottersby has learned the art of survival. Mari has lived alone for the last months, since her father died, trying to continue her father's dream of striking it rich with Marigold Mine, her namesake. A woman accustomed to harsh living and hard work, Peerless Studio's offer to use her mine for the price of $5,000 seems too good to be true. And the invitation to become the leading lady for the same pay likewise seems unbelievable. <br />Tony Ewing's father is an investor with Peerless Studios and Tony's been sent along to protect that investment. The last thing he expected was a hot hellion that captures his imagination, rubs him the wrong way, and refuses to back down to anyone. Further, Mari's illogical loyalty to her father's dream, her lack of respect for Tony and his money, and her smart mouth at once fascinate and appall him. As she gains polish, Tony finds that his fascination becomes quite dangerous to his heart.<br />Once again author Alice Duncan masterfully creates a fiercely independent, slightly offbeat heroine the reader can't help but love. What Mari lacks in propriety she makes up with her bodacious attitude. Mari sharply contrasts with the very wealthy, polished hero, resulting in memorable characterizations that demonstrate Duncan's style at her best. When combined with the unique background of the early days of motion pictures, the result is as hot as the Mojave Desert used for the setting. THE MINER'S DAUGHTER comes very highly recommended.	2001-08-31
1855697:US	49693975	R52Z3EZNXRGX1	0373259468	747316381	Heat Of The Night	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Heated fantasies and encounters -- Very highly recommended	Handcuffs, a leather mask, and a pink tutu promise public scandal, threatening the mayor's reelection campaign. Charged with finding the truth, Detective Brady O'Keefe heads the investigation into the murder of the mayor's kinky chief financial backer. With the media circling, the case couldn't get much more difficult. Ordered to stay away from the press, Brady's expected to turn that chore over to a professional liaison. Then Brady's childhood nemesis shows up as a PR consultant and as mouthy as ever. Indeed, \\"Terror Mahoney\\" has grown into a nemesis with incredible erotic possibilities. <br />Spin doctor Erin Mahoney knows to present facts to the media with just enough titillation to turn the tide in her direction. A lot is riding on her reputation to get the job done. She's equally adept at manipulating men with her sexuality, without giving into the passions of sex. But somehow with Brady those lines are blurring. She intends to work right up to the edge of professional acceptability; instead, she finds herself falling hard for the dangerous and unpredictable Detective. With heated sexual tension building, it only seems to make sense to let off some steam in a single night of no strings attached passion. But Erin and Brady fail to realize that strings have a way of attaching during heated fantasies and encounters.<br />Author Donna Kauffman once again pens a sensual and heated romance in HEAT OF THE NIGHT. As temperatures rise, the plot promises to leave someone burned...or burning! Sizzling and enticing to the extreme, this fast-paced romp can't help but please. With believable, sexy characterizations, readers will find the pages turning quickly as steam rises and suspense builds. Very highly recommended.	2001-08-31
1855929:US	49693975	R2C6156LMUVMRO	0373244215	851299691	Her Secret Affair	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Entertaining and lively -- Recommended	Single father Brodie Todd moved his comatose ex-wife and son back to New Orleans from Texas. On Seth's first birthday, his mother had been drinking when she fell into a pool and almost drowned. For the last two years she's existed in a coma. The New Orleans mansion needs extensive renovation, so Brodie hires Chey Simmons an architect specializing in renovation and restoration. While he hopes his ex-wife will yet awaken and go about her life as they had planned, and be the mother Seth needs, he holds even greater hope to include Chey in his life. When the ex-wife finally awakens at the most inopportune moment, the shenanigans begin.<br />With nine siblings, and thirty-one nieces and nephews, Chey knows the demands of family. Chey has other dreams and plans for her life than carrying on the family tradition of producing babies, however. She has no intentions of marrying because she wants to focus on her career. Impatient with her arrogant flirt, Chey still can't resist that attraction that draws her to Brodie. But many challenges must be overcome before these two can live happily in the mansion. While the mansion needs renovation, so do their priorities and responsibilities.<br />Set in New Orleans, HER SECRET AFFAIR captures the architectural and cultural dazzle of that city with flair. Unfortunately, overabundant description with excessive detail bogs the narrative flow at times. Nevertheless, these warm characters with strong family related challenges create an entertaining and lively read. Bold motivations and dialogue leave little doubt as to the desires of these strong characters that initially find themselves at an impasse. Strong secondary characters add zest to the mix as well. Recommended.	2001-08-31
1856663:US	49693975	RCVWH76GGTAG	0373484364	890747557	The Bravo Billionaire (Bravo Family Saga)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Feisty and revealing -- Highly recommended	The eighth in the series about the Bravo family, THE BRAVO BILLIONAIRE is released as a single title. This new family branch in the Bravo family live in LA and are fabulously wealthy. They are also victims of a terrible kidnapping thirty years ago, which still leave emotional repercussions. <br />Then in her fifties, Blythe used her wealth and influence to adopt a beautiful baby named Mandy. At sixty, she passed away, leaving behind a will with a provision regarding custody of her daughter. If her son Jonas wants custody of Mandy, then he must marry and live with Emma Hewitt. The Texas born dog trainer is perfect for Josh, in Blythe's opinion, and custody is the only way she bring them together, despite their obvious previous attraction. Perhaps Emma can make Jonas a warmer, kinder, gentler man. <br />Jonas controls his marriage very carefully. Nights are spent in Emma's arms. But he doesn't sleep in her bed, departing for his own room before the sun comes up, using passion to keep words at bay. During the day, if there's something he wants to discuss, he simply calls her at work. If she raises a concern he doesn't want to hear, Jonas simply hangs up the phone. He especially refuses to discuss the kidnapping of his baby brother thirty years ago, despite the years of nightmares left in its wake. He remembers nothing of that night. It's good for him that he's underestimated his new wife's tenacity. <br />The searing passion of Emma and Jonas makes THE BRAVO BILLIONAIRE a delightful read. The subplot regarding the kidnapping gives a depth to the plot that links it Christine Rimer's previous release, THE MARRIAGE AGGREEMENT. Emma's character is feisty, keeping Jonas on his toes. Her lengthy time contemplating the decision to marry, and her choices that allow Jonas to make his decision without being manipulated reveal true strength of character without compromising her independence. Jonas is a flawed, wounded man with the memory of his brother's kidnapping haunting all of his relationships, proving money doesn't guarantee happiness. This reviewer looks forward to the next book of this series, MARRIAGE: OVERBOARD, a weekly serial available at eharlequin.com. In addition, THE MARRIAGE CONSPIRACY the final book of the series, will be released in October.	2001-08-30
1856850:US	49693975	R3H8ZUTD72JF0Y	037325945X	154845041	Aftershock (Harlequin Temptation, No. 845)(Heat)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The power of passion - highly recommended	Amber Riggs believes that control is everything. Her careful faade ensured that people take her seriously. She's good at turning the negative in the positive. But beneath her carefully cultivated faade lurks a child who fears the dark and being left alone. And the inner child panicked when an earthquake hits while she's alone, exploring an old warehouse.<BR>Fire inspector Dax McCall checks vacant properties to keep them empty of the homeless, the mischievous or the desperate. The old mill and warehouse are on his list to check, so when he sees the sports car out front, he stops to see who might be there. The warehouse is a hazardous nightmare, and when he goes inside, Dax is trapped when the quake hits. Buried alive, Amber and Dax's sheer will keeps them calm as the court certain death. Aftershocks continue to the rock the building, and a sense of impending death makes life all the more precious. Arousal and the need to survive draw them together in act of passion that keeps panic at bay as the aftershocks continue to hit. Afterwards it feels like a hazy, sensuous, arousing dream. Not quite real; that is, until Amber learns she's pregnant. A chance encounter between Amber and Dax a year later reveals the truth in a soul shattering encounter that leaves them both coping with AFTERSHOCK.<BR>A poignant tale of life changing events, AFTERSHOCK by Jill Shalvis will touch readers' hearts. With her characteristic dramatic flair, Shalvis forces characters to reevaluate their priorities and make life altering decisions. As these passionate, strong characters clash, they create both sizzling passion and hot challenges. A fun plot with fascinating consequences, AFTERSHOCK comes highly recommended.	2001-08-30
1857311:US	49693975	R5FET1356U7J8	0966694198	259805801	My Happy Heart	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very highly recommended	Author Gregory Ryan brings the ability to pray and meditate to the level of young children in MY HAPPY HEART: PRAYER OF THE HEART. Full 4 color cartoon illustrations reinforce the message of love for family and for Jesus. Simple repetition of phrases and words prepare children for their own quite time.<BR>Gentle affirmations of love and peace with the underlying repetition of the name of Jesus teach young children life long skills for slowing in a fast paced, tension-filled world. Indeed, adults will likewise benefit from the simple meditation skills they learn along with the young reader. Extra information for parents and teachers is included at the end regarding the history of mediation, how to meditate, and how to teach children to meditate. Very highly recommended.	2001-08-30
1857576:US	49693975	RFV4JHSNFMQI7	0373244177	614126826	The Last Mercenary (Soldiers of Fortune, Book 6)	Books	5	63	67	N	N	A fascinating read - highly recommended	Six years ago Jack Steele found his only son wrapped in the arms of his much younger wife. When Kirby asked her mother if she'd been having an affair with her stepson Micah Steele, her mother didn't deny it. The breach in the family has never healed -- especially for Kirby. Despite her strong feelings for Micah, Kirby had been in his arms only once, which turned out disastrous, leaving her humiliated and hurt. She still carries the scars of that encounter.<BR>Kirby doesn't know how much Micah regrets those hurtful words, or far he would go to save her from harm. But when drug lords kidnap her in retribution for Micah shutting down part of their operation, Kirby's learns that her step brother's nothing like he seemed. As the past comes to the forefront, they will both be afforded the opportunity to heal old wounds. Micah keeps his life very private. Although his family suspects that he lives beyond the means of his trust fund, they don't know he's living from his pay as a mercenary. Beneath the conservative Armani suits lurks a man unconventional to the core. A danger junkie, Micah lives for the rush of adrenalin that comes from risk. As he risks his life to protect Kirby, however, tender passion replaces the sharp impatience he's used for years to mask his feelings.<BR>Diana Palmer creates a fast paced narrative filled with suspense and intrigue in THE LAST MERCENARY. Fascinating in scope, with intriguing characters that must rise above their pain to accept the heart's full measure, THE LAST MERCENARY will keep readers on the edge of their seats. These multifaceted characters as well as the complex plotting result in a fascinating read, which comes highly recommended.	2001-08-29
1858138:US	49693975	R3BGGB7FWXPWIK	0373271719	86904684	Fugitive Hearts (Silhouette Intimate Moments #1101)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A very pleasant read -- recommended	Children's book author Dana Whittington wouldn't have found him if the wood box hadn't been getting empty. On her porch, covered with snow, was a man that she pulled into her remote cabin before he could quite freeze to death. With the phones out and roads closed, she's alone with this stranger. Pushing aside proprieties, she strips him and gets his unconscious body warm, realizing that he looks like an old fashioned desperado. As they come to know one another, Dana's impressed by his obvious love of his daughter. She's terribly shocked to later learn she'd harbored a fugitive who had been serving a life sentence.<BR>Seven months of helpless, frustrated anger characterizes his life. Remy Leverette is not a murderer, despite what they say. Friends have turned their backs on him, so he doesn't dare trust the truth to a stranger. He can't forget the sight of his wife on the bedroom carpet as if she had passed out again; then he smelled the copper scent of blood. He worries that his daughter would grow up as he had, always trying to atone for his father's sins. But he refuses to leave a legacy of shame for his daughter; instead, he's determined to prove his innocence. With no where else to go in the frigid Canadian winter, Remy returns to the resort where Dana works on her books, slipping into the main building and hoping to conceal his presence. When she discovers Remy, Dana cannot bring herself to betray the man who thinks so much of his daughter, or even her own heart. <BR>The honest, down-to-earth warmth and motivations of the characters in FIGITIVE HEARTS by Ingrid Weaver results in a very pleasant read. Although the plot is markedly predictable, the quality and depth of characterizations can't help but touch the heart. Even the cat Mortimeter, who stars in Dana's children's books, makes his presence delightfully known through the narrative, as he tolerates the antics of his humans with grace. Recommended.	2001-08-29
1858243:US	49693975	R17UYIS0WRBAT8	0515131814	944880032	Heaven Sent (Love Letters)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A wonderful afternoon's read! Highly recommended	Callie Prophet might be the bane of Aubrey Lockhart's existence, but she is also his daughter Becky's salvation. When Aubrey looses himself too deeply in his own grief over his beloved wife to be emotionally available to his child, it is the town's post mistress who answers the child's letters addressed to her mother in heaven. And it is the same woman who gives up her job for an opportunity to become Becky's nanny. While she doesn't meet Aubrey's preconception of a nanny (they should be gray headed, hard of hearing and matronly), Callie does know how to bring laughter back into the child's life. Too bad Aubrey's own life can't be resolved so easily. Now his wife is dead, his daughter's in the clutches of a mad nanny, and a huge black cat named Monster is determined to wreck havoc upon his home.<BR>Callie sometimes believes she's been left on the marriage shelf simply because she doesn't control her deplorable behavior. Outspoken, bodacious and daring, Callie doesn't hold her tongue in the face of wrong doing -- be it a child who's neglected by a father or a society matron bent upon passing along ruinous gossip. Further, it was letters that brought Becky into her life, and love letters Aubrey wrote to his deceased wife that caused her to fall in love with him. Too bad it could be letters that also destroy her chance at love before she's truly experienced it. If the plot follows convention a bit too predictably, then these remarkable characters become the breath of fresh air in HEAVEN SENT by Rachel Wilson. As his overwhelming grief abates, the hero's ability to laugh and to enjoy his daughter again can't help but touch the reader's heart. Further, the heroine's irrepressible spirit and determination to help the grieving child provide the perfect counterbalance to the hero's gloom. The pivot point, the six-year-old child that brings this couple together, is perfectly captured in both her newfound happiness, and her terror of the horrible great-aunt who threatens herhome. This great-aunt is marvelous villain, as is the Monster cat that manages to wreck his own brand of havoc. Indeed, this extraordinary cast of characters results in a read that comes highly recommended.	2001-08-29
1858605:US	49693975	RC85AB23151HF	0373244185	355285450	To Catch a Thief: The Calamity Janes (Silhouette Special Edition #1418)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	An entertaining read -- Recommended	Attorney Rafe O'Donnell follows Gina Petrillo from New York to Wyoming when she leaves town for a class reunion. A cynical man, Rafe believes that Gina was part of her partner's scam to embezzle the investors of restaurant's funds. He also believes that if he follows her long enough and closely enough, she'll lead him to the partner. Rafe is wrong.<BR><BR>Despite their mutual suspicion, Rafe and Gina cannot deny the connection they feel when they are together. Nevertheless, Gina feels constantly on edge, continually reminded of the foolish and mistaken kisses they've shared. Not to mention how much she'd like to repeat those kisses. Indeed, his kisses make Gina forget why he's following her around. Despite their attraction, they must acknowledge the legal issues that keep them apart, as well as the wicked thoughts keep drawing them together. <BR><BR>Once again author Sherryl Woods pens a heart-touching romance in the third book of her miniseries The Calamity Janes. With her characteristic warmth and gentleness, Woods' characters come alive with the ambiguities and ethical dilemmas that make them both imperfect and believable. While the plot slows at times to bring in the characters from the other books in this series, readers who have delighted in this wonderful series will enjoy the quick asides. TO CATCH A THIEF is a lively and entertaining read, coming recommended.	2001-08-29
1858612:US	49693975	R2G34D26R4Q2KH	037325945X	154845041	Aftershock (Harlequin Temptation, No. 845)(Heat)	Books	5	20	22	N	N	The power of passion - highly recommended	Amber Riggs believes that control is everything. Her careful façade ensured that people take her seriously. She's good at turning the negative in the positive. But beneath her carefully cultivated façade lurks a child who fears the dark and being left alone. And the inner child panicked when an earthquake hits while she's alone, exploring an old warehouse.<BR><br />Fire inspector Dax McCall checks vacant properties to keep them empty of the homeless, the mischievous or the desperate. The old mill and warehouse are on his list to check, so when he sees the sports car out front, he stops to see who might be there. The warehouse is a hazardous nightmare, and when he goes inside, Dax is trapped when the quake hits. Buried alive, Amber and Dax's sheer will keeps them calm as the court certain death. Aftershocks continue to the rock the building, and a sense of impending death makes life all the more precious. Arousal and the need to survive draw them together in act of passion that keeps panic at bay as the aftershocks continue to hit. Afterwards it feels like a hazy, sensuous, arousing dream. Not quite real; that is, until Amber learns she's pregnant. A chance encounter between Amber and Dax a year later reveals the truth in a soul shattering encounter that leaves them both coping with AFTERSHOCK.<BR><BR>A poignant tale of life changing events, AFTERSHOCK by Jill Shalvis will touch readers' hearts. With her characteristic dramatic flair, Shalvis forces characters to reevaluate their priorities and make life altering decisions. As these passionate, strong characters clash, they create both sizzling passion and hot challenges. A fun plot with fascinating consequences, AFTERSHOCK comes highly recommended.	2001-08-29
1859037:US	49693975	R2IC6XFO2OQLLD	0373244207	495269320	Another Man's Children (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	At times painful and always touching -- Recommended	Years of dedication have finally placed Lauren Edwards on the short list for her own store. Sweet rewards for a woman whose life is devoted to retail at the expense of a personal life. But a family emergency forces her to reevaluate her priorities when her brother Sam's wife dies, leaving him and two small children bereft. So Lauren finds her way to Harbor Island, Washington, two hours from what she thinks of as civilization, to pitch in for a week. Feeling a bit concerned over the possibility of loosing his best friend and business partner, retired pilot Zach McKendrick encourages Sam to take a week in even deeper isolation to privately deal with his lose; meaning, Lauren finds herself the nanny for a week. Completely inexperienced with children, Lauren desperately tries to cope, but fights a loosing battle without Zach's aid. As they loose their rigidity in the face of adversity, Lauren and Zach find they have more than changing diapers in common. ANOTHER MAN'S CHILDREN by Christine Flynn makes a pleasant afternoon's read. However, it lacks the sparkle that distinguishes the best of Special Edition series. While the conflict is clear, at times painful and always touching, the characters are so defensive and prickly that it's hard for a reader to feel sympathetic toward their dilemmas. Romantic Times describes the weakness of novel as &quot;the characters don't always gel.&quot; Indeed, the terse tone of the first half of the book distances the reader from the characters, which reinforces the plot, while unfortunately preventing much fun, tenderness, or even a smile.	2001-08-28
1859297:US	49693975	R1OR3SO23MEFQQ	0373259484	661467896	Forever Jake	Books	3	1	2	N	N	An entrancing storyline and fun characters -- recommended	A woman of impetuous decisions, Robin Medford doesn't hesitate at going after what she wants. What she wants is a baby without the pesky male side effects that might control her decisions. At thirty-two, she perceives thirty-five as the closing of her safe childbearing years, so time's running out. She's decided against a sperm bank based on her research. She just needs twenty minutes with the right man. Jake Bronson does believe life could get more surreal when the woman of his fantasies returns after fifteen years. Frisky, sensual, Robin captured his imagination since the night he found her skinny-dipping and in need of assistance. But she has a burning desire to always seek what lies pas the next mountain while he savors the remote living in Forever in the Yukon Territory. When she left Forever, Robin left a raw hurt in Jake that reopened with her return. She'd left him without a backward glance, and will do so again when her visit to her grandmother ends. And when she says no to his kiss, Jake suspects she'll also say no to his wedding proposal. FOREVER JAKE by Barbara Dunlop is an amusing read. The author borrows from her own experience, setting the novel in Yukon Territory in the far North, lending the location a true sense of authenticity. An entrancing storyline and fun characters result in a conflict that at once delights but also satisfies though it's a bit predictable. Recommended.	2001-08-28
1859414:US	49693975	R1X9B27T8JYHMC	1551668262	96305119	The Wager	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Struggles of the heart -- highly recommended	Laura Harte endures a number of painful shocks in a short period of time. First a tragic accident kills her mother and leaves her injured. Then she learns that the father she believed to be deceased actually lived in New Orleans with his wife and twins. Now she must cope with her feelings for Josh Logan, a man sent by her grandmother to fetch her to New Orleans. A need binds Laura and Josh as she recognizes a hunger, a passion in him that goes beyond anything physical. That need calls out to her, touching something deep within her heart. Nevertheless, she'll never forgive the Jordan's for their impact on her life, or Josh for his dishonesty when they first met. Laura's grandmother Olivia Jardine won the Princess Hotel from Josh Logan's grandfather over fifty ago. Olivia refuses to sell the hotel even though it's loosing money, preferring to ask Josh to go to San Francisco to persuade her granddaughter to come to New Orleans. She offers Josh the same wager that won her the Princess. Josh vowed to his grandfather to get the beautiful hotel back. He went to California to meet bring Laura her grandmother's message, but found himself liking her so much he couldn't bring the pleasure to an end by revealing his true purpose. Unfortunately, his decision alienates her when she learns the truth, especially when she learns the other condition of THE WAGER. Laura struggles with issues of identity as she struggles to reconcile the past with the father she never knew. Disillusionment and bitterness with a father who married a socialite and had twins leaves her empty and frustrated. The path to healing and self-acceptance lends this marvelous depth and believability as she struggles with the past and with issues of the heart. An entertaining contemporary romance, THE WAGER richly portrays the struggles of the heart, although the premise seems a bit thin at times. With the rich southern background of New Orleans, portrayed with the grace of a true southerner, THE WAGER comes highlyrecommended.	2001-08-28
1859440:US	49693975	R2ZSKRBGJ4QQXC	0373271700	439427135	Born To Protect (Firstborn Sons)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Love, honor, and courage -- very highly recommended	Christina Sebastiani of Montebello might trade life in a palace for a life among books in the ivory towers of Montana University, but she's still a princess. A research scientist, Christina is more interested in collecting soil samples than worrying over her father's perception of danger. Despite her highly educated background, however, Christina lacks the most elementary education in the wild, wonderful things men do with women. She can't help the fantasy that her new bodyguard might be willing to teach her. When the sniper in the Philippians blew away part of Nave Seal Jack Dalton's shoulder and career, he also took a monster portion of Jack's confidence. Out of the Seals, Jack fills his father's request to safeguard Christina. He can't resist the smoldering passion lurking beneath the virgin exterior. It doesn't take long for him to know this is the princess he was BORN TO PROTECT. But he may not be able to protect his heart from this innocently tantalizing temptress. Themes of love, honor and courage come to life in with the talented pen of author Virginia Kantra in BORN TO PROTECT. With a perfect balance of romantic tension, these reluctant lovers will live in readers' hearts. Despite their extraordinary backgrounds, these are real characters with human flaws and misgivings. These strong characterizations and the fascinating plot make BORN TO PROTECT very highly recommended.	2001-08-28
1860932:US	49693975	R1AYI3UC8T6KPM	0373834640	196428300	BLAZE-Midnight Fantasies: Mystery Lover/After Hours/Show and Tell (3 Novels in 1)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Searing! Very highly recommended	Harlequin's new series debuts with MIDNIGHT FANTASIES, a collection of three novellas designed to whet the reader's imagination. Smoothly written, well-developed plots provide a solid basis for these sensual romances. &quot;Mystery Lover&quot; by Vicki Lewis Thompson: A sudden storm allows B.J. to take advantage of the dark to seduce the lover of her fantasies. One of the most daring fantasies, anonymous sex, releases her inhibitions when she becomes the temptress. Blindfolds, whipped cream and leather chaps all combine in mind-blowing sex between B.J. and Noah. But the question remains if she can maintain her anonymity or if Noah will realize that she's his life long friend. Wildly sexy! &quot;After Hours&quot; by Stephanie Bond: Harry, the anatomically correct blowup doll arrives promising Rebecca Valentine true love. She's the proprietor of Any Time Costumes where she indulges her fantasies after hours when she dresses in her own sultry creations. When the man of her fantasies unexpectedly catches her dressed as a vampire complete with black garters, the object of her desire can't help his own newborn fantasies. A perfect mix of tenderness and erotic enthusiasm. &quot;Show and Tell&quot; by Kimberly Raye: A naughty lingerie party inspires the very staid Lney Merriweather to write her fantasy on a slip of paper, which the object of her fantasy Dallas Jericho later finds. Encouraged by the words, Dallas begins his pursuit of his fantasy woman. The town's bad boy, Dallas must overcome his legacy to convince Judge Merriweather's prim daughter that he's the man to indulge her every fantasy. Heated and sensual. For those seeking a touch of the risqu, this new series with satisfy even the most discerning reader with bold, sensual romance. This new series allows women to luxuriate in their sexuality with sexy, sensual reads that indulge the wildest fantasies with a strong storyline and a beautiful romantic backdrop. Irresistible for the modern woman, this collection comes very highly recommended and promises great things for this new series.	2001-08-27
1861410:US	49693975	RPBHHMW5NS3SF	0373790074	557959758	Two Sexy!	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The power of passion - highly recommended	When her boyfriend of five years finally proposes, schoolteacher Meg Valentine isn't nearly as thrilled she expected to be. Maybe the passion she'd always dreamed of seems lacking, but Trey's a good catch in Peoria with his slick suits and fancy car. Meg hopes to resolve her feelings while taking a five-day vacation in Chicago with the bonus she earned as Teacher of the Year. Meg's agreed to run the Any Time Costumes shop while her sister vacations. Meg's tired of being a good girl and living up to everyone else's expectations. She'd give almost anything to live on the wild side, if only for a while. Little does she suspect she'll get her wish when she finds her sister's surprise in the shop's backroom. Harry, the anatomically correct blowup doll, promises to bring romantic good luck. Sure enough, Meg's luck appears in the guise of a sex kitten's bodyguard. Jarett Miller grew up with nighttime soap opera star Taylor Gee. While she relentlessly pursues him, Jarett really wants a woman that looks like Taylor but has a heart of gold. He's shocked to meet the woman of his dreams in a costume shop, but doesn't pursue the connection. That is, until Taylor takes a few too many sleeping pills at just the wrong time, potentially throwing away her career. Now he desperately needs a body double for the sex kitten, and he knows just the woman to step into role. Author Stephanie Bond brings a spirited energy to her work, enlivening her narrative with a blend of humor, innocence and trouble. Amid glitz and glamour, she touches the heart in TWO SEXY with outrageous naiveté and genuineness. Powerful and passionate, these memorable characters are a blazing success. Highly recommended.	2001-08-27
1861440:US	49693975	R3QXORSNWSKTC8	0373790058	577169541	Notorious (Blaze, 1)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Searing! Very highly recommended	Keely Branscom left behind quite a reputation in her hometown after posing nude for a men's magazine. While she regrets the break with her family, she's never missed the small town or the small town attitudes. But when she bumps into her teen crush, Noah Garfield, on the streets of Las Vegas, the chemistry between them reminds her of what she misses most. Noah never forgot the spirited Keely who always lived for the moment's pleasure. But when he saw her about to enter a strip bar, he interrupts her &quot;interview&quot; to rescue her from the ogling eyes of the stage. He brushes aside her protests, taking her back to his hotel and promising to help her find another line of work. Readers won't be able to resist the sexy Keely, the wild child whose reputation made her notorious. She's certainly not lost her touch as she lustfully draws Noah under her spell. Treating life with a spirit of adventure, she seizes the moment whether it is a stolen caress barely concealed from prying eyes or raspberry lotion applied in a closet. Her sensuality and sense of adventure will tease and tantalize the reader right along with the sexy hero. Additionally, the hotel, with its exotic water fixtures and decadent room, can't help but flame the imagination. Very highly recommended.	2001-08-27
1861665:US	49693975	R1X346XBN82CGC	0967828503	204758746	Netman: The Legend	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fast paced adventure -- Highly recommended	Weldon is a fifteen-year-old genius who leads a band of teens that imprint cyborgs with their brainwaves. As a result, these cyborgs have independent thought, extraordinary intellect, personality and memories. Their project, however, is highly illegal and easily traceable if the cyborgs are caught. Risking their lives, they send the cyborgs into battle hoping they are in time to save their world from a deadly virus that threatens not just virtual reality, but the lives of the citizens of their planet as well. Suspend your disbelief and hold on for the ride, because author F. C. Erlanger creates a rollicking adventure in NETMAN: THE LEGEND. Fast-paced, imaginative, and fascinating, this cyborg hero and his companions keep the reader on the edge of the seat to the end. Tweens accustomed to superheroes that cross between dimensions of reality will have no trouble with this virus that threatens both cyberspace and ordinary reality. Highly recommended.	2001-08-27
1862069:US	49693975	R31H27GEGVHVIN	0373790066	254260461	Going For It	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Heating up the airwaves - very highly recommended	When Dr. Jamie talks sex, all of Manhattan listens. Her late night radio talk show is about straight answers without euphemisms, no giggling, and the trademark encouragement of, &quot;Go for it!&quot; Her talent has taken Jamie to the number one show in her market, and brought her to the attention of journalist Darlene Whittaker. Darlene believes that Jamie is a fake, and will stop at nothing to prove it. So, during a live interview, Darlene challenges Jamie to step up to the plate or be denounced as a fake. Bad boy Chase Newman commands respect with an aura of charisma no woman can resist. Darlene convinces him to try to seduce Jamie with all of Manhattan privy to their relationship. Darlene figures that since Jamie claims no woman can be seduced without her permission, Chase is the man to prove Jamie wrong. The gimmick promises national syndication if Jamie can resist Chase's seductive allure. But she has a secret that threatens to blow her out of the station booth if Manhattan learns what a fraud she really is. GOING FOR IT by Jo Leigh proves that sometimes the mind takes the back seat to the body's desires, especially when the heart steps in. Boldly exploring the nature of sexual relationships, this author understands what it takes to motivate men and women, including both the differences and the similarities. With a fun plot and graceful sexual exploration, GOING FOR IT is both daring yet romantic in its scope. Very highly recommended.	2001-08-26
1867792:US	49693975	R1ZOK88C2727VN	0738831956	835624715	Murderous Greed	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Recommended	Investigative reporter Lindsey Dyson and her new husband just moved in together in their new apartment. Unfortunately, they can't seem to get much time together for romance with busy jobs, boxes to unpack, and Eric's boss who wants to them to double date with his numerous girlfriends. They do, however, enjoy meeting the neighbors in the apartment next to theirs. <br />Grant and Miranda seem to have much in common with the Dysons and they look forward to becoming friends. When the two couples agree to meet at the Dyson apartment for Chinese takeout, plans fall through with only the loud fighting and crashing against the adjoining wall to serve as a cancellation. Later Grant stops by to apologize and indicates the fight was over money.<br />The Dyson's are shocked the next day when police announce that Grant has been murdered and his wife is their prime suspect. Lindesy's editor assigns her to the case, to help search for the killer. Within days, a coworker links the case to another murder case; this time the victim is a wealthy man.<br />Author Calley Moore creates an interesting murder mystery in MURDEROUS GREED. The brevity of the novel, however, disallows much character development, especially among the secondary characters. The unpredictable plot will give readers a number of suspects. Investigative reporter Lindsey Dyson is a powerful and interesting crime solver, and this reviewer looks forward to more books that include her. Recommended.	2001-08-22
1869103:US	49693975	RSI8UJ97TEQJ9	0967792967	582419623	Carrot in My Pocket	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award of Excellence	A young farm boy interrupts his day to seek a missing carrot. In rhyme, he talks to almost two dozen different animals, wondering where his carrot has gone. From the barn to fields of straw, he'd kept the carrot in his pocket. Through work and play, he remembers having it. But when the work is done, the carrot's gone. Then he gets a surprise confession. <br />Denise Oratales' paper-sculpture techniques will astonish readers with its texture and realism, giving CARROT IN MY POCKET a remarkably unique appeal. These brilliantly colored and subtly painted collages are then photographed, thereby providing a beautiful background for the lively poetic meter by author Kitson Flynn. The result is a children's book that is at once entertaining and educational. Various animals will delight young readers learning what they look like. Add the counting game of mice (a new baby is added on each page) as well as the hidden donkey, and the result is an outstanding read! Very highly recommended.	2001-08-21
1871795:US	49693975	R184LV0WHAB86G	0967828511	77119036	Picture Perfect (Seasons No. ) (Seasons, No 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Absolutely remarkable! Very highly recommended	Cassie and Justin have been best friends forever, through horror movies, sleepovers and desperate crushes. But now Cassie has a problem, because its just not cool to start liking the boy you've always been best friends with. Especially when the stuck-up Home Coming queen decides she likes Justin and he seems equally interested. After all, Cassie can't hope to compete with Ms Perfect and Popular. <br />That's not her only problem. Cassie's folks are having financial problems. She can help out if she wins the painting division of the spring art show. But its only a month away and she has a lot of work to do. Her friends accuse Cassie of trading her pals for paintbrushes in her rush to finish the painting in time. But all the time spent in her studio isn't just meant to finish her project, it also allows her to avoid Justin.<br />Mixed emotions and concern for her family combine in this marvelous teen novel from author Linda Bernson. Cassie and Justin are kids that teens can identify with, complete with imperfections and stress. The underlying background of artistic interests, both painting and photography, not only unifies the novel but also adds pizzazz. In addition, the surprising conclusion gives the perfect ending to this remarkable read. Fun, believable, and entertaining, PICTURE PERFECT comes very highly recommended.	2001-08-19
1874727:US	49693975	R2I7EEUL4MEN92	0821769049	666448370	Fire With Fire: Hope Chest (Ballad Romances)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent time travel romance! Very highly recommended	Five-star chef Corrine Webb despises holidays because they remind her of her mother's abandonment when she was eight-years-old. She has just never learned to cope with other people's families and holidays. So when her boss offers her a get-away in the Virginia's Allegheny Mountains, Corrie leaves civilization behind to loose herself in the small town of Hope Springs. She enjoys exploring the small town and even ventures into the abandoned Victorian-era Chesterfield resort. A quest for a waterfall leads to unexpected adventure, however, when a winter storm over takes her hike. When Corrie takes shelter in the Chesterfield, she discovers a tin star along with a few other relics in a hope chest. Soon she finds herself thrust back in time to the year 1886. <br />Any modern chef, regardless of their talent, would find cooking on a wood stove without so much a pilot light a bit of a challenge. Not to mention the bustles, trains, and ridiculous corsets women must wear. Carrie's outspoken manners likewise present a bit of a challenge, and bring her to the attention of the law. Police Chief Jess Garret believes Corrine to be a &quot;vexing dichotomy--strong and outspoken, yet vulnerable and troubled&quot;. Like Corrie, Jess carries wounds of the past. Together these characters cross centuries with a bridge of love to heal wounds caused by brutal betrayal. Theirs paths are difficult, however, and threaten to destroy that which they've only begun to build. <br />There's something winningly whimsical and marvelously magical about the premise of the power of a hope chest and equinoxes winging characters across time to find healing and love. The second of the Hope Chest miniseries accomplishes both purposes with pizzazz. First time author Paula Gill creates an amazing tale that touches the heart and lingers in the memory. The brutal abuse and bitter disillusionment of the past find acceptance and healing as these finely realized characters learn to trust their most painful secrets. Indeed, FIRE WITH FIRE promises great things from this author; this reviewer looks forward to reading her future works.	2001-08-16
1874852:US	49693975	R10JBL5RUK740L	0821769413	386175997	Heat Of The Moment (Zebra romantic suspense)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Intrigue, betrayal and danger -- Very highly recommended	Alec Portor has long condemned himself as a bad seed, the son of drug-addicted parents and the product of foster homes. Determined to bring out the bad, rather than cope with the waiting, Alec flew the plane during the crash that resulted in the death of the man that was both Sydney Shank's husband and Russell Reck's business partner. When he learns of Reck's plans to doublecross him, however, Alec becomes determined to destroy Reck first. Unfortunately, he harbors deep secrets of those days, knowing they will destroy whatever he shares with Sydney. <br />Nicknamed The Wrecker, Reck has been released from jail and plans to take his revenge on Sydney, his ex-wife and the woman who put him behind bars. He'll use anyone, even his own daughter or harmless children, to further his schemes. He plans to destroy everything Sydney loves before destroying the woman herself. As Alec pits himself against Reck, Sydney finds herself drawn into a deadly game that threatens her heart and her life.<br />OF THE MOMENT by Olga Bicos presents a twisting, convoluted path in a romantic suspense novel guaranteed to keep the reader riveted. With complexity of character and motivation, Bicos strikes the heart of betrayal and danger to keep the action fast paced and to keep the reader guessing. With truly dastardly villains and unexpected heroes, HEAT OF THE MOMENT presents a tale of forgiveness and of redemption that will satisfying the most demanding reader. Very highly recommended.	2001-08-16
1879306:US	49693975	RP1W8RNERMIT2	0821768654	507949315	True to Her Heart (Angels of Mercy) (Ballad Romances)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A prickly mass of opinions -- highly recommended	For the first time, her beauty and charm failed to win Lucinda Harrowby what she wants. Revealing her quick temper and quicker tongue, Lucinda's opinions of the war effort lie directly opposite the opinions of wealthy businessman Jeffrey Bancroft. Indeed, he accuses her to be &quot;one of those strong-minded females who wish they were men.&quot; He prefers her to be decorative and expensive, not sincere in her willing to work. Lucinda joined Florence Nightingale's nurses to flee her cruel relations and her disappointment in Jeffrey. Now he's coming to the warfront to help raise money for the troops, and needs to see the troops' needs.<br />Jeffery believes he needs a docile wife who will accept his opinion as her own. Yet he can't resist this intelligent spitfire who attempts to treat him with a crisp, no-nonsense approach. He's at a loss to understand how such a prickly mass of opinions can be so attractive. Something about her intrigues him even as she drives him to quarrel every time they meet. She pushes him beyond the limits of his normal behavior, leaving him to sneer and to pick up their disagreements of the drawing room even in a hospital. <br />As he comes to appreciate Lucinda as more than the sum of her beauty, Jeffery eventually recognizes the value of her quick brain and willingness to work hard. Jeffrey had known strong willed, outspoken women before. The wives of the millworkers, for example, were strong because they had to be. He had come to believe that a rise in a woman's station in life meant that they don't have to be strong -- that the men in their lives could afford to form their opinions. As his relationship with Lucinda flourishes, however, he finds himself reevaluating many of the tenets that had hitherto guided his life.<br />In TRUE TO HER HEART, Martha Schroeder captures the fire of the women who served under Florence Nightingale, appreciating the difficult conditions imposed by serving in a hospital as well as imposed by the era. Watching her characters reevaluate their priorities and values even as they fight their mutual passion proves to be a remarkable delight. These striking characters will live in the reader's imagination long after the final page is turned. The descriptions of women's challenges to find their own ways and opinions are uniquely portrayed against the nursing background provided by Florence Nightingale. Indeed, Schroeder's graceful pen creates an intriguing and highly emotional tale that comes highly recommended.	2001-08-13
1880232:US	49693975	R3KEMNV4VBFX18	0821768239	164820009	The Marshal Takes A Wife: The Burnett Brides (Ballad Romances)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A witty, charming tale -- Highly recommended	Eugenia Burnett's determination to see her three sons married with a family has resulted in the eldest two sons marriages in THE RANCHER TAKES A WIFE and THE OUTLAW TAKES A WIFE. Now her youngest son falls victim to her matchmaking schemes in THE MARSHAL TAKES A WIFE. But she may find her own matchmaking skills used against her as her sons conspire to ensure their mother takes a husband and has less time for meddling in their own lives.<br />Marshal Tucker Burnett would rather remain free to engage a gunfight than to give up the town to outlaws. He's the Burnett man with the fastest draw and associates raising a family with the loss of freedom and ties to responsibility. That's why he left in the night three years ago, rather than remaining in the arms of the only woman who could make him forget his vows of freedom. His hasty departure ensured he destroyed a long time friendship with Dr. Sarah James.<br />When Tucker goes to the stage to pick up his mother's package, he's shocked to find Sarah and her two-year-old son getting off the stage. Sarah is equally outraged to learn the telegram Eugenia sent regarding her grandfather's ill health was a ploy to bring Tucker and her together. She fears that Tucker will realize that he's her son's father. She also vows to thwart Eugenia's matchmaking schemes, eventually even allow Tucker to fix her up with other men. But dating other men simply backfires on them both. <br />The road to marriage is filled with bumps and challenges in this final edition of the Burnett Brides Trilogy. The simple matchmaking premise results in character driven conflict that keeps the pages turning. Sylvia McDaniel's delightful characters that refuse to acknowledge the truth of their hearts result in an utterly witty, charming tale. With a nice twist of plot that turns the table on the matchmaker, THE MARSHAL TAKES A WIFE comes highly recommended.	2001-08-13
1880639:US	49693975	R1O5P456C601UZ	0821768719	637685180	To Tame a Duke	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Two ordinary people caught in extraordinary circumstances	When his cousin Sloan reports the death of his older brother, James Armstrong seeks revenge upon the colonists who hung his brother. The Gilded Lily, a code name for an American spy, is responsible for the death of the 13th Duke of Kinross. Now the 14th Duke, James sets off across the oceans to kill his brother's murder. Kidnapping the man from a tavern, he's shocked to learn he's a she. <br />Eighteen-year-old Lily Hawthorn, daughter of a tavern owner, uses her remarkable gift of memory to aid the American cause. She disobeys her fiancé for an assignation at a tavern, little suspecting the danger she walks into. A man bent on revenge kidnaps her and her eight-year-old brother. When he realizes she's a woman, he takes her aboard his ship, planning to hold her in England until the war's conclusion. His revenge takes a different direction when he decides to make her fall in love with him, so that he might simply break her heart. A hollow victory indeed, if his own heart gets broken as well.<br />Patricia Grasso delivers a fast-paced tale of opposites attracted in TO TAME A DUKE. Challenges of loyalty and love bring these outstanding characters to life with witty dialogue and sharp motivation. The conflict between these two strong characters boils over into hatred, mistrust and searing passion. In addition, the beautifully realized younger brother adds a marvelous touch with his pet pig. With a complex plot weaving matters of the heart with political intrigue and bit of a mystery, TO TAME A DUKE provides delightful entertainment. Highly recommended.	2001-08-12
1881346:US	49693975	RYE8FG5M9O2GV	0821770098	32132471	Handsome Devil (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Sparks fly -- Recommended	Nicholas Sinclair's family has always been accepted in English society due to their wealth, but fathers guard their daughters carefully in the presence of Sinclair men. Given their notorious reputation, little wonder it takes the fire of an Irish lass to win Nicholas' heart and keep his mettle on edge. Further, when he at last encounters the woman bold enough to win his heart, his inebriated state and fierce passion keeps him from realizing he's met his cousin's friend from America. A night of passion together abruptly terminates without proper introductions, leaving him without her true name. <br />Sheridan Delaney, Nicholas' cousin's best friend, presents a freshness and genuineness lacking in the English women of Nicholas acquaintance. With a perchance for mischief and the aid of an aunt and uncle that are equally bent upon discovering trouble, Sheridan finds herself always in a fix despite her well meaning intentions. She just doesn't fit her family's notions, nor society's, of what is proper. When Nicholas arrives at the jail to retrieve his cousin's friend, he realizes she's the beauty of the passion-filled night. She is at once pleased and mortified to face the man who took her virginity. Her fiery temperament and sparkle take Nicholas by storm, and her own heart can't resist this handsome devil. But many conflicts must be resolved before these two can truly yield to their hearts.<br />The majority of the conflict between hero and heroine is self-created as they bicker incessantly due to the underlying passion they share. On one hand, while the dialogue is amusing and arousing, it also becomes wearing for the reader. On the other hand, the antics of the aunt and uncle create humor and tension that keeps the reader in stitches. This character driven tale that spans oceans and cultures does present spirit and pizzazz, resulting in a poignant and humorous read. Recommended.	2001-08-12
1881969:US	49693975	R318B0XQCG5KA7	0821768247	373296485	The Unintended Bride (Once upon a Wedding) (Ballad Romances)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Scandalous behavior! -- Highly recommended	A mysterious note sends Arthurian scholar Arthur Watterley on a quest for Mallory's original manuscript of Le Morte D'Arthur. Leaving his preferred quite, country solitude, Arthur goes to London to follow the directions in the note. Few understand his scholarly passion except Hero Fenster, the secret love of his heart. Pledged since birth to a family friend, Arthur desperately tries to keep control of his heart. When he shares the content of the note with Hero, however, Aurthur allows her to convince him that she's going to accompany him to the bookshop for the mysterious meeting. Neither expects to be locked in the bookshop overnight!<br />With a terrible scandal brewing, Arthur and Hero can only marry. Neither has admitted their feelings to the other, little suspecting to be in a mutual situation. As each tries to allow the other freedom to reconcile their new marriage vows, their emotions and actions result in quite a muddle. To further complicate things, Arthur must fulfill quests of honor, chivalry and valor to earn the leadership role of his club the Round Table Society, a club centered on Arthurian legend. If Arthur can find the Mallory's illusive manuscript, he's assured success. But his rival is equally determined to succeed, especially since Arthur has married the woman he planned to ask for.<br />The Victorian age clashes with Arthurian legend in THE UNINTENDED BRIDE, resulting in a marvelous mix! With a generous dose of humor and mystique, author Kelly McClymer creates a terrific sequel to THE STAR-CROSSED BRIDE. Together Arthur and Hero defy convention to follow their hearts. These appealing characters and delightful original plot will leave fans hungering for the next part of this series: THE INFAMOUS BRIDE, available in October.	2001-08-11
1882189:US	49693975	R3DP437O53XBBS	0966602129	169710631	Nothing Else Matters (Sam Casey Mystery Series)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Very highly recommended	WHEN THE DEAD SPEAK by S.D. Tooley will hold the reader's attention riveted until the last page is turned. With a foundation of Native American mysticism blended with a solid murder mystery, Tooley creates a masterful tale of love and murder.<br />A freak accident where a semi swerves to collide with the concrete columns of an overpass in Chicago. As chunks of concrete fall away, a body is revealed encased in its concrete tomb. In his hand is a gold pen shaped like a lightening bolt, and a clue that spans the world reaching into Korea and the racism that American soldiers perpetrated against their own. The corruption of the evil done in Korea has spread on American shores to the highest levels, and even ties to Sam's own deceased father.<br />Detective Sergeant Samantha Casey has a gift inherited from her mother, a Sioux medicine woman. Using her hands, Sam can hear the voices of the dead. When she touches the mysterious golden lightening bolt, she witnesses the ravaged, bullet ridden bodies, and she smells the blood and gunpowder. From a corpse dead twenty-one years, Sam hears the screams of battle and senses the fear and terror.<br />If you enjoy Alex Matthew's series with the heroine Cassidy McCabe, then you will find Sam Casey equally satisfying and yet uniquely different. WHEN THE DEAD SPEAK is a rocket paced, addictive novel that is impossible to put down. The heroine is sexy, gifted, and imperfect, with just enough vulnerability to keep the reader hooked. While it reaches a satisfying conclusion, WHEN THE DEAD SPEAK also leaves just enough untied and interesting loose ends to lead into the sequel, NOTHING ELSE MATTERS.	2001-08-11
1882746:US	49693975	R1LKLF743T2QQJ	037371002X	48940760	Married in Montana: Big Sky Country (Harlequin Superromance No. 1002)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Heartbreaking choices between those she loves	When he brought Bobby Maxwell home in the middle of the night during a thunderstorm, Deputy Rafe Rafferty never considered the chain of events he might set into motion in small town Paradise Corners, Montana. Bobby's father Robert Maxwell practically owns the town as well as the state's political appointees and law enforcement personal. Further, Bobby's sister Thea Maxwell quickly captures Rafe's heart. <br />Thea can out castrate, out rope and out work virtually any cowboy in Montana. But at twenty-nine, after a disillusioning experience with the governor's son, she remains single. She loves the ranch, and if she had been a son, would have inherited it. Instead, her brother Bobby stands to inherit, even though he feels as though the land and his father suffocate him. She gives Rafe her heart, but when he has to arrest her brother, Thea finds herself caught between love and loyalty.<br />The Big Sky Country miniseries kicks off with MARRIED IN MONTANA by Lynette Kent. This fast paced, spirited novel creates tremendous tension as the heroine struggles between family loyalty and the man she loves. The hero likewise struggles to follow the law, even though he knows his decision pushes the woman he loves away. Further, the secondary characters add tremendous depth and interest, not only introducing further installments, but also strengthening this fascinating tale. MARRIED IN MONTANA comes very highly recommended...	2001-08-10
1882760:US	49693975	R5B222ZIGPOS2	0373710046	522210120	Leave It to Max (Harlequin Superromance No. 1004)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Irreverent and humorous -- Very highly recommended	Max is a remarkable eight-year-old boy whose imagination and clumsy feet keep him in trouble. Max doesn't mean to forget he's grounded when he wanders off to follow the wind or a whim, he just forgets. Livy loves her son, but doesn't have a clue as to how to cultivate the magic that lies within her child. By trying to keep him safe from broken bones she crushes his flights of imagination. In trying to make him like other little boys, she fights against what makes him special -- his uniqueness. His father shares the same uniqueness. So when Max unknowingly brings his father home, after almost nine years of leaving Livy, his mother must confront the magic her son and former lover share, accepting the past and her own vulnerabilities.<br />Where once Garret knew Livy intimately and completely understood her, now she simply leaves him confused. She was the first person to offer him love, and not knowing how to love back, or believing himself worthy, he had run. But from the first moment Garret saw Max, he knew there was something special about the child. There had been an instant connection, a deep recognition of himself within the boy -- &quot;perhaps that magic he and Max believed in so deeply.&quot; When Garret came to Savannah, Georgia, he thought he pursued the muse that inspired his previous books. Now he's coming to understand he needs so much more.<br />Lori Handeland's marvelous voice combines irreverence, romance, and amusement to create a memorable read. These richly developed characters combine eccentricity and realism to keep the reader amused even as their foibles present their hidden fears and vulnerabilities. Equally remarkable are the wonderful secondary characters, each carefully crafted, especially the frequently jailed grandma and the stolen goose, which kept me in stitches. Very highly recommended.	2001-08-10
1883139:US	49693975	R1MZ1TUEP4QY1N	0373710038	186962389	Something about Eve (Harlequin Superromance No. 1003)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The value of inner beauty -- Recommended	Concern sends private investigator Matt Ross to Atlanta to find the sexy TV personality Eve Masterson. Matt was permanently injured following a tragic accident while he was a cop. Rather than accepting desk duty, he's agreed to become a private investigator with locating Eve as his first assignment. <br />Eve apparently quit her New York job for a fantastic opportunity in Atlanta, but she's not appeared on any of the news shows, and with Christmas coming, has been completely out of touch with family and friends. When Matt shows up on her doorstep, she's terribly ill and only his intervention offers hope that she might recover. But Eve's illness stems from more than just physical symptoms as she struggles with career goals, betrayal, and an identity crisis. <br />Debra Salonen presents a powerful reminder of the value of internal beauty over external beauty in SOMETHING ABOUT EVE. As Eve struggles with her identity issues, including adoption and appearances, the reader receives a strong reminder of our culture's misconceptions regarding the value of physical appearance. The narrative flow itself, however, lacks the expected fluidity, perhaps because this novel attempts to pull together so many narrative paths, including the struggles of parenting, recovery from illness or an accident, and reevaluation of career goals. Nevertheless, with strong characterization and excellent account of the challenges of non-custodial parenting, SOMETHING ABOUT EVE comes recommended.	2001-08-10
1883221:US	49693975	R13JAZ3AHO4WPZ	0373790082	407389182	Exposed	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Searing! Very highly recommended	After five years of tireless devotion to her aunt and uncle's restaurant, Athens by the Bay specializes in Greek and Italian food, Ariana Karas takes a well-earned week for vacation. Coincidentally, Ari finds a magazine that features includes Sexy City Nights: San Francisco Style, displaying a sizzling pictorial display of two lovers enjoying the city's possibilities. Seeing the magazine inspires a fierce desire to live her fantasies and let San Francisco work its magic on her tired, lonely heart.<br />Divorced, Ari's holds a single-minded determination to make the restaurant a success. Sixteen-hour days have kept her from exploring the city or from even having a personal life. But she can't help noticing the sexy businessman who comes in several times a week, although he has never flirted with her--if he had, she'd have long sense gotten over her interest. Now with a whole, empty week ahead of her, Ari's ready to light his fire. So when Charlie, purportedly the groom at a rehearsal dinner, finally successfully encourages Ari to make a pass at Maxwell Forrester, the results are unexpectedly combustible. She wants to have an affair. One week, and one week only, of Max should satisfy her hottest desires. <br />Business tycoon Maxwell Forrester has been coming to Ari's Oasis for two years, surreptitiously eyeing the beautiful Ari. When someone slips a Mickey in his drink during his own bachelor party, the night before his wedding to someone else, Max's carefully erected inhibitions come crashing down, reducing him to basic inherent need--and he needs this beautiful Greek woman. Max seduces Ari in a memorable night of passion--memorable to her, that is. The cold light of dawn exposes a spotty memory, but a strong desire to know this incredible woman better. He had been planning a marriage based on friendship, and when the bride-to-be disappears the morning of the wedding, Max finds himself wanting not a partnership with a friend, but so much more. Unfortunately, neitherAri nor Max know who slipped him the Mickey, or just how Exposed they are about to be. <br />Against a glittering, neon and historical San Francisco background, author Julie Elizabeth Leto kicks off the launch of the Blaze Sexy City Nights series with a combustible romance. The thrill of exhibitionism and tantalizing possibilities unite in a sizzling plot, completed by fabulous characters that have foibles enough to believable, and are hot enough to keep the temperature rising. Daring, sexy, and fun, EXPOSED reveals the dangers of leaving one's self exposed. Very highly recommended.	2001-08-10
1883350:US	49693975	R1Y2EG59CL1Q8W	0373710054	380184714	My Private Detective (Count on a Cop) (Harlequin Superromance, No. 1005)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Mysteries of all kinds -- Highly recommended	Her best friend Dana Turner's in prison for killing her sister -- a crime she didn't commit. Now Heidi's determined to set her free. So when a class on criminology is taught as continuing education for writers, Heidi finds a way to sign up. She wants to learn how to look for hidden evidence that could lead to reopening Dana's case. It had been an election year, and the prosecutor had achieved another conviction with the Turner case. An autopsy on the body had been refused, and the possibility that the &quot;victim&quot; was on drugs overlooked.<br />Gideon Poletti knows there's no hope for a relationship with Heidi and until Dana's cleared. Heidi has the unique ability to touch him, body mind and soul, and he won't let her get away. Never mind that he has a crime to solve. Never mind the objections of his fourteen-ear-old son. And especially never mind his ex-wife's manipulations. Heidi presents a mystery in her own right, and he's determined to get close enough to solve it. So Gideon agrees to investigate Dana's case, and together they uncover the shocking truth.<br />MY PRIVATE DETECTIVE successfully blends mystery and romance to create a top notch read. Entertaining, unusual, and delightful, MY PRIVATE DETECTIVE unravels the mystery behind Dana's sister's death and the mysteries at the heart. The result is certain to delight the romance lover. The tension of Gideon's personal life, including a teen son and manipulative ex-wife, comes as an extra bonus. MY PRIVATE DETECTIVE is highly recommended.	2001-08-10
1883738:US	49693975	RQVJP0TCRN4XJ	0821771493	19602442	Beneath The Texas Sky (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	47	48	N	N	A returning award winner -- Very highly recommended	Her first novel, BENEATH THE TEXAS SKY, published in 1988, won both Romantic Times Reviewers' Choice for Best Western Romance of 1988 and the National Press Women's novel of the year by a woman in its category. Now Zebra reissues BENEATH THE TEXAS SKY with a new cover.<br />In 1865 Texas, redhead Bethanie Lane can no longer avoid the lecherous advances of her uncle whom also treats her as an unpaid servant. Her mother's dead and her father left before she was old enough to remember him. Scorned by her neighbors... Bethany has no friends and few resources. Finally she effects her departure by persuading Texas Ranger Josh Weston to allow her to become the cook at his brother's ranch.<br />She doesn't recognize him, but Bethanie and her mother once saved Josh's life with their healing skills, and he's always wondered if he'd ever again see his angels of mercy. Despite his misgivings, he finds himself traveling into the wildest country in Texas with the redhead, her aunt and cousin, and a precocious boy. Never had a woman frustrated him as much as Bethanie, yet Josh can't resist this fiery, independent woman. <br />A timeless treasure, new fans of Jodi Thomas will welcome the release of BENEATH THE TEXAS SKY. With a twisting, multifaceted plot that explores the highest and depths of emotion, BENEATH THE TEXAS SKY weaves a fascinating tale of complex relationships and challenges. These strong characters will live in the hearts and imagination long after the last page is turned. Very highly recommended.	2001-08-10
1883803:US	49693975	R3UF59JD55NURR	0373710062	378465045	First Daughter: The First Family of Texas (Harlequin Superromance No. 1006)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Absolutely remarkable! Very highly recommended	Kerry served her term in hell for choosing the wrong man and drinking too much. The family black sheep, she sold her share of the family ranch, thereby destroying 170 years of a family heritage. Now a recovering alcoholic, Kerry plans to open a shelter to serve others in abusive relationships. She never expected her new project to bring Craig Robeson back in her life. She'd ditched him at their high school prom to ride off on the back of a motorcycle with the town bad boy.<br />Nineteen years later, Craig is one of the wealthiest men in the country. Despite his success, his strained relationship with his mother still haunts him. She's never forgiven him for his role in his alcoholic father's death. He believes that he would never willing date an alcoholic, even one in recovery; but then, he never thought Kerry would reenter his life. Now Craig finds himself facing some of the most challenging decisions of his life.<br />The author's obvious knowledge of the steps of recovery, the ugly side of an alcoholic in her cups, and of family abuse gives THE FIRST DAUGHTER an amazing depth. This is not a perfect heroine. Her flaws her big, realistic, and believable. In fact, when Kerry drinks, she is an ugly heroine. And K.N. Casper also creates remarkably strong hero who breaks all stereotypes. Rather than becoming her knight in shining armor, something we all know never works anyway, this hero subscribes to tough love -- walking away from the woman he loves when her disease dictates the necessity of such an action. He won't allow the woman he loves to drive drunk, or push his own buttons. <br />Some of the most painful of life's challenges are presented in THE FIRST DAUGHTER, yet it's also a fun, exciting read. Casper is master of reflecting the shifts of characterization with her authorial voice, reflecting the social grace of sobriety and the ugliness of drunkenness with equal skill. With its rich characterization and multi-layered plot, THE FIRST DAUGHTER comes very highly recommended.	2001-08-10
1884113:US	49693975	R2H3HM9WO7ZS2Z	0688173977	824449590	Rain Is Not My Indian Name	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Wow! Very highly recommended!	Cassidy Rain Berghoff plans a kiss under the mistletoe to mark her new life, her birthday, and her new beginning. Galen has been her best friend through &quot;lemonade stands, arcade games, spelling bees and science fairs.&quot; When he gives her a beautiful necklace for her birthday, something shifts. Trust Galen to show it first. But she believes there will be many days to share what they feel -- only to learn Galen dies overnight.<br />Rain's the only person in town to not attend the funeral. Somewhere frozen inside are her words, but she remains silent as grief overwhelms her. Rain isolates, avoiding visitors, friends, and soccer buddies. Eventually her family pushes her into the world again, attempting to send her off to an &quot;Indian Camp&quot;. <br />When the camp becomes the focus of town controversy, Rain inadvertently finds herself at the heart of it. Instead of participating as a camper, she becomes the photographer for the local newspaper at the camp. That experience begins the process of healing and reconnecting to her world. <br />Author Cynthia Leitich Smith intersperses the narrative with journal entries, creating a fresh sense of immediacy in RAIN IS NOT MY INDIAN NAME. As the teen girl struggles through grief to rejoin the world, her journey of healing and growth touches the heart of all readers. Exploring the world of race, friendship, and connection, Rain becomes an example through her words and feelings -- never does the prose become preachy. Instead, she reveals her loss, her pain, her mistakes, and her growth, thereby allowing readers to draw their own conclusions. A remarkable and poignant achievement, RAIN IS NOT MY INDIAN NAME is a keeper! Very highly recommended.	2001-08-09
1885250:US	49693975	R2VUS0C4KJNVA5	082176828X	264021781	What You Wish For	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Fern Michaels turns adversity to triumph	It was the worst beating ever. Bad enough he left her needing stitches, or that her black eyes will take weeks to heal. But for the first time, Daniel vented on the small dog Lucie as well. It was her breaking point. Striking back, Helen strikes back with a poker and flees into the night with the small terrier. A chance ride, a kind vet, and a connection to a women's shelter results in a new identity and new life for herself and the dog.<br />When Daniel's family oriented boss gives him an ultimatum, he finds himself either producing his wife or finding a new job. Had he behaved, he'd have taken the CEO's place when he retires. Now Daniel wants revenge. As a computer whiz, he knows all the gimmicks required to locate a woman who's gone underground. And he'll do anything to find the woman he blames for all that's gone wrong in his life. <br />Helen takes a new name, Nancy Butler, and begins the long path to recovery. She drives cross-country from California to New Jersey where a new life, with a home and a job, await. She meets a marvelous new friend Sam with a dog of his own. Slowly she learns to trust again, to be friends again, to fall in love. But always in the background lurks the dangerous memory of the man who wants her dead. As long as she's legally married to him, she'll never be free. Further, she has no doubt he'll never stop stalking her.<br />Fern Michaels turns adversity to triumph in WHAT YOU WISH FOR, a heart touching account of the painful world of shelters and subterfuge. Michaels draws us into the world of spousal abuse, a topic seldom touched among romance novelists. Rather than preaching to the choir, she follows the path of recovery, including reestablishing and redefining one's self-identity. This marvelous author brings a deep understanding of the issue of spousal abuse to her work, allowing her prose to lend her heroine strength and beauty to an otherwise ugly topic. In addition, Isabel Tyger is marvelous secondary character, ferocious to protect the women in her shelter, imperfect, deeply influencing many of the characters. WHAT YOU WISH FOR comes very highly recommended.	2001-08-09
1887532:US	49693975	R2S3QE109N92B4	0821770675	912316479	Asking For Trouble (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Where fates are changed -- Highly recommended	Nick wasn't looking for trouble when he joined the branding crew. The bounty hunter lost his trail, and Nick was content with things until Boss Donovan's daughter shows up. Jamie has the reputation that &quot;half of Texas worships the ground her cows walk on.&quot; Despite the immediate attraction, the last thing Nick wants is a spoiled heiress on the trail. So Nick makes her a deal: he's in charge, and when the job's done, she owes him one night in his bed. All night.<br />On the brink of bankruptcy, Jamie has maintained the illusion of solvency while she's hocked even her mother's jewelry for this last chance of restored affluence. She needs Nick to be the ramrod, the foreman, and teach her how to drive men and cattle. The deadly machinations of Boss' old enemies, however, threaten to destroy Jamie's dreams of success. As her fierce determination and strength of character inspire the men around her, Jamie fights to succeed in this dangerous cross-country venture.<br />As secrets reveal themselves, ASKING FOR TROUBLE dramatically recreates the dangers of riding cattle from Texas to Montana in the 1880's. Geri Borcz remarkable writing style dazzles with her original turn of phrase and teasing words. Borcz chooses words that convey a lush sensuality even as she describes the desert trail and harsh terrain. Sexy, tumultuous, and vividly realized, ASKING FOR TROUBLE lives up to its title with flair.	2001-08-07
1888049:US	49693975	RDF06YPCU6R8I	0967792940	170933593	Stardusters	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Whimsical and fun! Very highly recommended	When two boy angels can't seem to get along, their halos begin to dim. Soon a big angel named Sarge breaks up their fighting, and gives them star-dusters and stardust barrels. Now they have twenty-one stars to clean.<br />Even though they think Sarge is tricking them into getting along, Arin and Avery vow that can never happen. Rushing to be the fastest, each cleans ten stars. Then they fighting each other to get to the last star, and Arin and Avery crash into the stardust barrel, sending stardust showering to Earth. <br />Sarge refuses to fix their mess, and now the feuding angels must work together before the stardust hits Earth. When they can't prevent the stardust from touching Earth, they become the inventors of something wondrous and magical.<br />Arin and Avery break the perfect angel model in STARDUSTERS. Arguing, as ordinary boys are wont to do, these marvelous angels create their own brand of wonderful mischief. Not only must they take responsibility for their actions, but they are left to fix the problem. When all turns out well with their new creation, these feuding angels can't help but charm the hearts of children and adults alike. The amazing art a number of media in remarkable illustrations certain to please the most discerning eye. A treat to they eye, this whimsical, marvelous children's book comes very highly recommended!	2001-08-07
1889514:US	49693975	RHWV2PZ7KQGIP	1583384715	617872919	The 8th House	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very highly recommended	As a graduate student, metaficiton was the topic of my thesis; that is, writing about the craft of writing within the context of a novel. Many great writers have succeed with the device, including Tim O'Brien in THE THINGS THEY CARRIED and James Mitchner in THE NOVEL. Remarkably, Wendy Jensen also blends metafictional aspects into THE 8TH HOUSE, an addictive paranormal thriller. <br />Zoe Zignego uses the contents of her psychic dreams to aid police to solve ghastly murders and later spins the stories into best selling novels. Her quest for peace leads her to flee St. Paul and buy a house in Missouri's foothills of the Ozark Mountains. The long abandoned home held irresistible appeal for Zoe, for the woman who can't seem to live with the living seeks the company of the dead rather than being alone. Her roommate is an rascally ghost named Wilbur, who provides comic relief and a mystery of his own. <br />Repairs to the house, which dates from the 1800s, prove expensive. Zoe needs to quickly generate some cash flow to replace her badly depleted bank account. RelunReluctantly begins a new novel, based on her current investigation in partnership with the Larry Larsen of the St. Paul police department. Zoe's never written a novel prior to solving a crime before; as she creates the story, she takes the reader through the process of the writing. Zoe's very uncomfortable with the concept of profiting from the tales of murder and mayhem, and her discomfort escalates as she realizes that her dreams have become precognitive and that she has a direct psychic connection to the serial killer. One he is equally aware of. As she writes the novel, Zoe recreates the killer's motive, environment and his past. This metafictional quality lends the novel fascinating flair and insight from a unique perspective.<br />Be careful when you start reading THE 8TH HOUSE by Wendy Jensen, or you may fall into the trap I did, promising yourself just one more chapter until you finish the book at 2 a.m. on a work morning! As a paranormal mystery lover, I was impressed with the creative edge that Jensen brings to her work. In an increasingly flooded arena of strong women sleuths, Jensen has created a heroine who stands out like a rare gem among many beautiful semi-precious stones.	2001-08-06
1890906:US	49693975	R305NU91XPLKDK	0505524333	524275740	Marry Me, Maddie (Time of Your Life)	Books	5	41	44	N	N	Lovable and laughable -- Highly recommended	When Maddie Summers challenges her boyfriend of four years to &quot;Marry Me or Move On,&quot; on her best friend's talk show, plans backfire and she finds herself single once again. Maddie refuses to forego her own dreams to serve cocktails to any man's business partners in order to elevate him on the social pedestal. So now she plans to play the field, maybe date twenty or thirty men, and have fun. And when she marries, she wants someone who is hot, and someone who won't ask her to trade her independence for his goals. <br />Chase can't help appreciating the changes in Maddie, from her curvaceous figure to her newly single status. But Maddie is his best friends, heck, his blood brother's kid sister. Which means she's practically his own sister, and he has to keep his hands off. Worse, Chase considers himself a jailbird's son, and doesn't believe he should ever marry.<br />Chase had some pretty good pointers on boys when Maddie was twelve, and she tells herself that she's supposed to be forgetting men, not fantasizing about her brothers' best friend. Despite both of their best intentions, however, circumstances throw them together in business and in private. Include Maddie's interfering, yet well meaning, brothers and the result is humorously delightful! <br />Rita Herron's lovable, laughable style sparkles in MARRY ME, MADDIE. From talk shows to a nudist colony, this irrepressible heroine and her over-protective brothers will keep the reader in stitches. The multi-layered plot lends depth without becoming too serious, keeping the pace moving smartly along. The depth of characterization presents believable, imperfect people with big hearts and way of stepping into heated trouble. Without a doubt, Rita Herron's rising star boldly shines in MARRY ME, MADDIE. Highly recommended.	2001-08-05
1891287:US	49693975	RBJCA3TZOGQD5	156184148X	414490027	Labyrinth of Chaos	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Very highly recommended	In LABYRINTH OF CHAOS, Brian Wallace dramatically fulfills his self-proclaimed goal to &quot;demonstrate through a time, place, and specific characters that life is something that is filled with intrigue, mystery, and importance regardless of who you are and what you do.&quot; Indeed, Wallace's text becomes metafiction as he strikes a balance between autobiography, history, neurology, metaphysics, and the art of writing about writing. Successfully titillating and enriching the reader's senses, the narrator's naiveté, genuine goodwill and flair for encountering the unexpected brings the reader a sense of adventure and immediacy as the protagonist explores both his interior and exterior worlds. <br />Alan Agrippa has inherited sufficient funds to support his exploration of Europe. Shortly after arriving in England he meets Ronia Vintras, an exchange student taking classes in London. Together and separately, they explore the geographical, philosophical, and sexual landscapes of our time. Alan seeks out and discovers metaphysical truths in the European landscapes, expanding to include such things as Junian individuation, quantum physics, druids, and tree fairies. Each new encounter and exploration accompanies joy in the experience and complex philosophical musings designed to make the reader the think. While not a difficult read, LABYRINTH OF CHAOS does make the reader work, reevaluating long held beliefs regarding morals, philosophy and religion. <br />LABYRINTH OF CHAOS becomes increasingly intriguing as the pursuit of the duality of ancient and modern thinking plays out in a text that is uniquely approachable. This fictionalized novel summarizes some of our strongest philosophical minds from Plato to Fritjof Capra, yet making their theories immediate and approachable. Further, Wallace's flexible, open mind reflects the very tenets of New Physics. In addition, Wallace brings a heavy dose of Romanticism to his text; that is, a deep connection to nature shared by suchgreat poets as Wordworth and Coolridge. With a striking balance between the scientific and the philosophical, the mundane and the metaphysical, this remarkable author charts a course to the mystic's understanding of the interconnectivity of all things. Overriding the deep philosophical reflections is a strong sense of adventure, and an overwhelming need to experience and delight in the happenstance of life. Very highly recommended. <br />Bright Blessings, Weaver	2001-08-04
1891350:US	49693975	R1JMV5J543F1RP	0373244142	920960985	Tall, Dark And Difficult (Special Edition, 1414)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Terrific summer reading! -- Very highly recommended	Two years ago when he heard the terms of his eccentric aunt's will, Major Hollis &quot;Griff&quot; Griffen was riding high and was simply amused. Now Griff is wounded, internally and externally, drinking beer in the family home built by his aunt's grandfather. Due to a stipulation of his aunt's will, Griff can't sell any of the contents or property until he completes his aunt's porcelain bird collection and donates it to the state's Audubon Society. The only lead to locating glass birds that his aunt left was a name: Rose Davenport, who he quickly comes to believe is &quot;a flaky, clutter collecting, overly friendly junk addict.&quot;<br />Rose has a unique talent for transforming rescued castoffs into treasures. Griff, however, challenges even her skill. Surly, demanding, and driven, Griff is too much like her ex-husband. She also thinks of him as arrogant and tactless, easily recognizing that this aviation junkie does not belong in her shop. She does eventually agree to allow him to hire her to help locate the missing birds in his collection because he presents himself as completing this task because of his aunt's dying wish. Truthfully, he's only motivated to fill the condition of the will that prevents him from selling the family home and moving on. Rose won't be pleased when she learns his true motive.<br />Author Patricia Coughlin creates an amusing, heart warming romance with TALL, DARK AND DIFFICULT. The hero is certainly every bit of the expected difficult, but he's also wounded beneath the bravo, which successfully endears him to the reader. Rose's quirky good humor and offbeat love of the eclectic provides a perfect counterpart, resulting in balanced, rich characterization. Combined with a fun, light plot, TALL, DARK AND DIFFICULT makes for perfect summer reading. Very highly recommended.	2001-08-04
1891985:US	49693975	RFWH3KYCXBVY0	0373271654	250852236	Interrupted Lullaby (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1095) (Intimate Moments, 1095)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Secrets revealed -- Highly recommended	When reporter/photojournalist Zeke Blaxland began his series of columns regarding the misappropriation of funds in charities, he never dreamed that a lead would lead so close to home. Having come up through the foster home system, Zeke is skeptic believing that charity begins at home. So he shows up at yet another fundraiser for a charity, checking out his ex-girlfriend Tara McNiven while gleaning information for a column. <br />When she became pregnant, Tara McNiven doesn't tell Zeke. If he is going to remain in Australia, he needs to make that choice, not be forced into it by her and an expected baby. When her child dies in the hospital, Tara grieves alone. Helping other people's children became a tonic for her broken heart when Tara left behind modeling to become a spokesperson for Model Children charity. Facing Zeke across the room, Tara knows she's not over him. But she's not pleased that he's back. It's only a matter of time before an investigation into a baby farm leads Zeke to the realization that Tara had his child. <br />As jealousy and pain intertwine with love and new opportunities, INTERRUPTED LULLABY touches the heart in unexpected ways. These strong willed characters must learn to allow vulnerability, supporting one anther despite their fears from the past. The passion between these characters is scorching! Author Valerie Parv's strong, believable characters and fascinating plot will keep the readers looking for more of her work. Highly recommended.	2001-08-04
1892498:US	49693975	R13EN76DYFFCXR	0595181317	777799970	The Feelings and Imagination of a Barefoot Boy Still Inside My Head! Poems and Short Stories for Boys and Girls, Ages 9 to 12	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Imaginative! Very highly recommended	Author Richard W. Carlson Jr. Brings echoes of maturity to freshly imaginative short stories and poetry in THE FEELINGS AND IMAGINATION OF BAREFOOT BOY STILL INSIDE MY HEAD. The sparkling ingenuous voice of remembered youth sparkles, recapturing the best of childhood and strongest of memories in a startling original record certain to please young readers. The rhythm and rhyme keep the tempo steadily on high, recreating runaway frogs, black eyes, broccoli and walking barefoot with equal vividness. Accompanied by simple, yet skillfully drawn illustrations (by the author's younger brother), this marvelous lark comes highly recommended.	2001-08-03
1892986:US	49693975	R3JX73XCXAM9UL	0759614768	500473082	Handful of Air	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Riveting -- Recommended	With a handful of clues and motives that quickly become nothing but a &quot;handful of air,&quot; Morton Kingsley finds himself the police's most likely suspect. Since he lies from the beginning as to how he discovered the body in an apartment he manages, Morton quickly finds himself surrounded by suspicion. When he follows his own lead, rather than proving his innocence, he finds yet another body. The police again find convincing circumstantial evidence against Morton linking him to both deaths. <br />As Morton follows sketchy clues that he hopes will lead to proving his innocence, misidentifications, menacing threats from thugs, and bad cops keep the pace moving at a clip. The complex series of discoveries and deaths presents a confusing, impenetrable jumble that tesults in tremendous danger to Morton as he draws ever closer to the truth. <br />Author J.B. Rivard delivers a plot-driven, gritty &quot;whodunit&quot; in HANDFUL OF AIR. While most first person narratives provide enough information about themselves to allow the reader to care, this narrator maintains distance throughout the novel, leaving the reader only a number of suspicious secondary characters to care about. While the secondary characterizations are richly drawn, none are admirable people, and virtually all could have committed several rather gruesome murders. Nevertheless, HANDFUL OF AIR is quite riveting if you enjoy a fast paced, carefully crafted mystery that keeps the pages turning. Recommended.	2001-08-03
1894881:US	49693975	RDGV7D0NM9VMX	0373271670	198217561	Hot On His Trail (Silhouette Intimate Moments, No 1097)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Intense plot and extraordinary motivation	No one cares about the truth when the judge announces Nick Taggert's conviction of murdering his neighbor. The police had their conviction; the D.A. had his win. With an easily framed man in front of them, their convenient patsy receives a guilty verdict. In shock the justice system fails him, Nick throws caution to the wind -- ten months of good behavior had lowered his guard's defenses -- and he flees the courtroom. With no where to run and no help in sight, Nick grabs a nearby reporter to use a hostage and they leave the courthouse behind. <br />Reporter Shea Sinclair was sick of being the &quot;weather girl&quot; so she jumps at the opportunity to substitute for the station's lead reporter. When Nick kidnaps her, she feels terrified, and angry. Remarkably, she also believes in his innocence and that he won't hurt her. When Nick offers to release her, Shea refuses to leave. At first her motive to get the story and see her career skyrocket to the top lead to her decision. Soon her heart has its own motives. As tension of the chase builds, and as they partner to prove Nick's innocence, passion ignites. They find passion in the heat of the moment, for the moment may be all they ever share.<br />HOT ON HIS TRAIL by Linda Winstead Jones presents a double entendre -- not only are the police hot on their trail, but these fiery characters ignite as Shea throws her lot in with an alleged criminal. Desperation leads to an intense plot, and extraordinary motivation. Indeed, nail biting suspense and heated passion never overshadow this reevaluation of priorities, goals and dreams. Very highly recommended.	2001-08-02
1895267:US	49693975	R1DSPJDRLJ8P87	0373259425	472981784	Wife For Owen Chase (Montana Matchmakers) (Temptation, 842)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Bliss takes a whole new range of meaning -- Recommended	Suzanne Greenway's fiancé left her at the altar six months ago. She sent chunks of cake home with the guests, gave the flowers to a senior citizen's home, and disavowed marriage. Then her editor sent Suzanne to Bliss, Montana to cover the annual Matchmaking Festival. Now she's the only woman in Bliss who doesn't want a man. Not even a sexy man with a heart of gold.<br />Owen Chase is the consummate bachelor, raising his dead sister's children while running a ranch. He wouldn't mind being married, but hasn't the time for courtship rituals and doesn't care for the fact that he's at the top of the matchmaking list. Also doesn't have the time to be the subject of Suzanne article; that is, until others offer to step in for the privilege.<br />A WIFE FOR OWEN CHASE contains a wonderful premise. With a card club devoted to playing hearts and matchmaking, an eighty-something senior citizen ready to find a man, and a man who loves children, fun is had by all. Unfortunately, the plot's a bit thin, lacking the conflict to create a truly dazzling read. Nevertheless, A WIFE FOR OWEN CHASE is light, pleasant entertainment for poolside reading. Recommended.	2001-08-01
1895422:US	49693975	R2Z4PZ9R55F3QZ	0373259417	74342984	Relentless (Heat) (Temptation, 841)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Delightfully wicked -- Very highly recommended	When Pamela Bradford stuffs herself into a cake, complete with pasties and a g-string, little does she suspect that she's going to receive as big of a surprise as her fiancé. With her father's employees at attendance, girl friends promise to empty the room of everyone but fiancé Peter, allowing Pamela opportunity to finally consummate their relationship. Instead, she pops out of the cake, when she realizes that she's about to become the \\"wife of an ... moron\\" whose conspiracy with her father makes her see red. <br />Pamela's relentless honesty doesn't tolerate dishonesty, meaning that Peter's comments while she was concealed infuriate her. When she emerges from the cake \\"like a vengeful goddess,\\" Ken couldn't resist the glory of her last parting gesture. Following Pamela to the beach and covering her with his jacket, he doesn't confess to witnessing the fiasco of a bachelor party. Rather, he listens to her vent, and eventually takes Pamela home. <br />The following day, when Ken takes the seat on the plane next to her, Pamela is stunned. She apparently invited him on the \\"honeymoon\\" and in her drunken state, forgot. As he baits her, teases her, and challenges her, Pamela finds herself falling for the gorgeous man accompanying her to \\"The Little Love Nest,\\" where she should have been honeymooning with Peter. Now Ken somehow must admit that their encounter on the beach was anything but chance, or confront Pamela's relentless honesty himself. <br />Leslie Kelly is a master of amusing contemporary romance. Blending hot, sensual ... moments with the best of romance, RELENTLESS will tantalize and titillate the romance reader, providing the perfect romantic escape. Kelly's wickedly fun imagination gives the impossible a believable tale that's too good too miss! Very highly recommended.	2001-08-01
1895450:US	49693975	R2G2BKW5FN9MH5	0373244150	35403996	Her Hand-Picked Family (Family Revelations) (Special Edition, 1415)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Startling changes -- Recommended	Gillian Quinn is like &quot;a butterfly drifting in the wind.&quot; Free spirited and determined to not pass an opportunity for a new experience, she has done everything from delivering birthday greetings to piloting small aircraft. Now she has new opportunity to exercise her wings in Hawaii. But an unexpected family revelation causes her to detour to Arizona. She needs the calming influence of her best friend to help her reevaluate what she has learned, and to pursue more answers.<br />Alex Hunter met Gillian in college. She was flighty, spirited and impetuous. He was organized, leading a dull, predictable existence with his beloved daughter. But a joint discovery on an archeological dig brought them together in a lasting friendship. Now they find themselves unexpectedly and powerfully attracted. But Alex needs security and permanence for himself and his daughter. Gillian needs the unexpected and freedom. <br />HER HAND-PICKED FAMILY brings opposites together delightfully. Like a butterfly's shimmering wing, author Jennifer Mikels presents a sparkling tale that heals old wounds and introduces startling changes for these multifaceted characters. The interesting plot weakens slightly, however, as it attempts to span the previous novel of this series and the next. Nevertheless, HER HAND-PICKED FAMILY comes recommended.	2001-08-01
1895590:US	49693975	R25JANM88KWFOP	0373271638	537591626	Her Guardian Agent (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1093) (Intimate Moments, 1093)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Delicate emotions and bold betrayals -- Recommended	Native American Hazel Youvella would prefer to ignore her roots. After her family's betrayal, she would prefer to focus on her work as a FBI Special Agent. Fate, however, brings her past and her present into a collision course, and only the aid of a tracker by the name of Guy Levoie can set things right.<br />Guy claims to do three things well: he tracks people; he seduces women; and he falls in love. Falling in and out of love is simply an art, however, until he meets Hazel. Breaking through the barriers surrounding her sexuality and her heart will also break through his own barriers. Despite the risk of exposure, however, Guy determinedly pursues this prickly &quot;bundle of controlled energy, this possible love of his life&quot; even as they pursue kidnappers and secrets of the past.<br />Terese Ramin's HER GUARDIAN AGENT suffers from a predictable plot; her characterizations, however, are outstanding. This hero is in touch with his emotions and doesn't back away from them no matter how scary they might prove to be. The heroine, on the other hand, is hostile, frustrated and hurt -- definitely in need of man who isn't afraid to love her. As they confront the past together, the play of emotion through betrayal, remorse, guilt and anger, shifting to positive feelings and love and joy brings results in a powerful catharsis through these delicate emotions and bold betrayals. Recommended.	2001-08-01
1895748:US	49693975	R1Y37AZ4B9X6I2	0312977662	910770895	Just West of Heaven	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Kept me giggling -- Very highly recommended	In 1880, Sophie Dolan considers the gift of sight more curse than blessing. In a world of conformity, the ability to see the future or form an empathetic connection to others merely sets her apart from the town folk of Albany, New York. Now the gift threatens to make her little sister Jenna a prisoner of her guardian's greed. Consequently, Sophie flees with the four-year-old child, answering an advertisement for a schoolteacher in Tanglewood, Nevada. Perhaps if they start over, their new anonymity will allow her to protect the child. Too bad Sophie can't hide a vibrant child like Jenna in a world of gray.<br />Ridge Hawkins once rode with gunmen until a good deed resulted in a pardon and a chance to start over. With a new, intense respect for the law, Ridge sees the world in black and white, never dreaming that Tanglewood's new schoolteacher will bring the concept of &quot;shades of gray&quot; a whole new meaning. Sophie's fiery red hair, passion for rebuilding the school and love for her &quot;daughter&quot; capture Ridge's imagination and set him aflame. Sophie makes this sheriff want far more than a tin star and a fast horse, but he knows she's hiding secrets. The question remains as to how Ridge will react when he realizes that Sophie's a kidnapper. Indeed, with four-year-old Jenna inexplicably insisting upon calling him Daddy, Ridge finds his heart a risk to both females.<br />Kathleen Kane brings a paranormal element to the Wild West, giving JUST WEST OF HEAVEN a marvelously original, entertaining flair. With strong, loveable characters, well-balanced tension and a vividly realized background, Kane brings a rare sensitivity to her writing style; indeed, JUST WEST OF HEAVEN is perfect for an afternoon's escape from the mundane. Humorous situations and repartee kept me giggling even as emotional by-play touched my heart. I couldn't put this book down as Kane wrapped me in her spell, luring me into a world of romance, friendship, and magic. Very highly recommended.	2001-08-01
1895889:US	49693975	R1DEX6V6ALTQYY	0373244134	837350194	Bachelor Cop Finally Caught? (Hot off the Press) (Silhouette Special Edition, 1413)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A perfect balance of mystery and sensual romance	Small-town reporter Lindsey Gray has had a thing for her older brother's friend for twenty years. Too bad now police chief Dan Meadow's still tries to relegate her to &quot;little sister&quot; status. Fed up with a pat on the head, Lindsey decides its time to either grab Dan's attention, or leave town to create a new life somewhere else. A radical makeover leaves Lindsey tastefully, yet sexily, groomed and dressed. Nevertheless, Dan seems determined to look after Lindsey, honoring his word to her brother, without considering her a full-grown woman.<br />On Lindsey's twenty-first birthday, Dan gave her a birthday kiss that rocked his world. Unfortunate circumstances, however, resulted in his marriage to another woman -- a woman with little patience for a small town cop on a small town salary. When scandal erupted and Dan divorced his criminal wife, he vowed to not let any such events touch his life again. Burying himself in work was enough until Lindsey's new look shocks him back to reality. With an arson investigation and Lindsey hot on his trail, Dan's going to have to rethink his life decisions, or risk loosing her to the glamour of larger town forever.<br />Author Gina Wilkins' BACHELOR COP FINALLY CAUGHT? creates a delightful read that spins a web of enchantment, whisking the reader away from the mundane into a world of dreams of love. Excellent escapist fare -- this novel contains the perfect amount of mystery to off-set sensual romance, keeping readers turning the page, eager to solve the puzzle, yet enchanted by the sensual tension. Highly recommended.	2001-08-01
1896263:US	49693975	R34SW50T5RKVSL	0373244118	137547175	Courting the Enemy: The Calamity Janes (Silhouette Special Edition #1411)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Enemies or friends? Highly recommended	In the second novel of The Calamity Jane miniseries, Widow Karen Hason has two things she can count on. She has terrific friends among the friends who refer to themselves as the Calamity Janes, and Grady Blackhawk will continue to pester her until she sells him the land he wants. As everything seems to conspire to change her opinion of Grady, Karen clings ever more tenaciously to her late husband's warnings against Grady. Even as her friends comment that she tends to give everyone a second chance; everyone, that is, except Grady, despite he offers of help around the ranch.<br />Grady Blackhawk descends from the Native Americans who lived upon this Wyoming land before white settlers usurped their claims to the land. Now Grady's determined to gain ownership in the memory of his ancestors. Unfortunately, Karen's husband had been equally determined to keep the land from Grady's hands, and passed that legacy to his wife Karen. She denies Grady's claims that her husband was &quot;an unreasonable man, one who twisted the facts to suit himself.&quot; She also would like to deny the passionate attraction that grows between herself and Grady. <br />Grady simply shows up at the ranch one day with supplies, and begins scraping old paint from the barn in preparation of new paint. He figures that his time and monitory contribution are really an investment because the upkeep is desperately needed, and the land and buildings will eventually be his anyway. Grady makes her a deal. If she will get know him and spend time with him, then he will walk away if she still thinks that he is a scoundrel and a thief. If he proves otherwise, then she agrees to sell him the ranch and goes to fulfill her dream of world travel. But as Grady gets to know her, he realizes her land is in danger from someone other than himself. Poisoned animals, fire and vandalism raise the stakes as he works to improve her property. <br />Author Sherryl Woods gracefully moves fans of her new miniseries into the second installment even as she prepares for the subsequent books. COURTING THE ENEMY reads equally well as a single title, or as part of the series. The strength of characterizations and tight plotting lend COURTING THE ENEMY remarkable depth. In addition, the secondary characters also sparkle, adding notes of humor and tension. Fans will look forward to the third installment of this miniseries, September 2001 release TO CATCH A THIEF. Highly recommended.	2001-08-01
1896376:US	49693975	RPQNAIK43B9MN	0373244126	985091459	The Marriage Agreement (Conveniently Yours, Bravo Series (Silhouette Special Edition No. 1412)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A romantic, heart twisting read -- Very highly recommended	His dying father's cruel words still hold the power to hurt, although the worst pain lies in the words left unsaid. Blake Bravo knew his only grandchild lived within a few miles, but never made any effort to know the child, or locate the father. Even now, as the old man breathes his last, he taunts his only child with the words of the pretty redhead's surprise.<br />Marsh spent ten years recreating his identity only to have his father reduce him to feeling like an angry eighteen-year-old again. Only his father's impending death can persuade him to return to Norman, Oklahoma and face the man who badly abused him as a child. Only the woman he's always loved, and had to leave behind, could convince him to stay.<br />Victoria Winingham always dreamed that Marsh would come back for her. Even now her first impulse to rush to his arms. But a secret lies between them: one that has waiting nine years for the telling. Now she must tell him that they share a daughter. One who will welcome him into her heart as a daddy; but the question remains if he's ready to be a daddy. Or if any of those old feelings for Tori can be resurrected.<br />Author Christine Rimmer once again presents herself as a master wordsmith will her carefully chosen descriptions, gently structured phrasing, and compelling expressions of the deepest possible emotions. At times poetic, other times strident and fierce, her words evoke emotional reactions in her readers, bringing tears of sadness and tears of joy in turn. Further, her expressive, imperfectly believable characters are equally remarkably realized. A romantic, heart twisting read, THE MARRIGE AGREEMENT comes very highly recommended.	2001-08-01
1899526:US	49693975	R7UW8Z31311BX	0373271662	51355676	Plain - Jane Princess (How to Marry a Monarch) (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1096) (Intimate Moments, 1096)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Absolutely memorable! -- Very highly recommended	The life of a princess might be glamorous, but it doesn't allow for the need to connect to others -- the need to touch and to be touched. At twenty-nine, Princess Sophie of Carpathia contemplates a marriage of convenience as she finds a way to escape duty for two weeks. With a tawdry make over -- this plain princess dresses in startlingly blue contacts, tacky shoes, too much perfume and heavy pancake cosmetics -- Sophie walks right past her bodyguard to climb into a taxi and return to a happy site of her youth in the United States.<br />Sophie immediately meets Steven Koleski, the godfather and now inheritor of five children. She can't offer him forever, but she does offer him two weeks when his housekeeper flees the house, leaving him at risk of being forced to surrender the children to foster care. With ten years of experience working with traumatized children and an orphan herself, Sophie knows what those children are going through, and knows she can help. For the first time in her life, she has an opportunity to really make a difference in someone else's life.<br />Steven lost his wife when he refused to place his five godchildren in foster care. She wasn't prepared for the insanity of raising someone else's damaged children. He wasn't prepared to give them up. Four housekeepers later, he's desperate, and accepts Sophie's offer despite the fact he knows nothing about her. Something about Sophie inspires his trust, and allows him to connect on a deeper level than where she comes from. And soon he finds himself wishing she didn't insist upon returning her mysterious past.<br />Karen Templeton begins a new miniseries called How to Marry a Monarch with PLAIN-JANE PRINCESS. A Romantic Times Top Pick, PLAIN-JANE PRINECESS is one of those rare reading delights that allows the characters live and breath with amazing conviction. Given that the hero has five children, this quite a remarkable accomplishment! Templeton not only captures a surly teen attitude with flair, butshe also dramatically delivers the youngest child's propensity for falling asleep in strange places. With a beautifully created romance, depth of characterization and a generous dose of humor, PLAIN-JANE PRINCESS comes very highly recommended.	2001-07-30
1901040:US	49693975	R18IWZ1NOSS1EN	0821768603	531646589	Enemies Of The Heart (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Fiery tale of love -- Very highly recommended	Lovers of the fiercely tempered, highly spirited Lady Cat of DESTINY'S LADY will be equally pleased with her outspoken, independent daughter Diana in ENEMIES OF THE HEART. Once again Susan Grace creates a fiery tale of love with the blazing passion and spirit that marks all of her heroines. <br />Stephen Morgan was desperate, imploring Diana Grayson to lend him sufficient funds to pay a gambling debt. Rather than simply lending him the money, however, Diana insists upon dressing as a man and accompanying him to Satan's Pleasures, a gambling establishment in a dangerous part of town. There she not only manages to help him pay the debt, but also pickpockets the money right back again. Spurned would-be-suitor Marchioness Renwick, Barclay Evanston, recognizes Diana, despite the wig, beard and breeches. Taking advantage of the chaos created by the brawl that results from the missing money, Barclay determines to make Diana his wife, willing or not.<br />More than an act of defiance, Diana's refusal to marry comes from her irritation that once she came of age and had control of her own money, she must still yield to the dictates of society. Her frustration with society's rules led to her masquerade as a man, and ultimately to the dilemma that she now faces. He threatens to destroy Diana's reputation with the scandalous rumor that she was at Satan's Pleasure plying her wares. And if he rapes her, society will instantly forgive the dead if he marries her while she would be ruined regardless of her innocence in the act. In self-defense, Diana shots and kills Barclay. Faced with scandal of the worst magnitude, Diana flees Satan's Pleasures. Unfortunately, she leaves her beard behind.<br />Diana flees town to visit her Uncle and family, hoping no one connects her to Barclay's death. In addition, she arranges to have her new horse Thor delivered to her uncle's. Thor had demonstrated quite a temper tantrum just before she bought him at action. Jared Devlin had calmed him, and Diana hopes to have him assist her training of the spirited animal. An Irishman, Devlin has little patience for the aristocracy, and Diana plans to hide the fact that her father is an earl. Diana plans to use Thor to start her horse breeding business; the fact that she finds him attractive is simply coincidence, of course. <br />Jared isn't comfortable being included in family dinners every night, but he accepts the courtesy. Seeing the Prescotts with their children reminds him of everything he lost in Ireland. He blames himself for the deaths in his family. And when he's asked to help with Thor's training, he must work to control his snicker. Jared underestimates the kind of woman who would enter into the horse business. That is, until he meets her. He soon finds that the spirited woman who wears breeches for horse training will capture his imagination, though he believes she can never be his. Indeed, many secrets will come to light for both of them, if they wish to be together.<br />Once again Susan Grace creates a marvelous, passionate romance with a fast paced, convincing plot. Indeed, with each novel Grace's voice gains an even more powerful voice in the historical romance genre. Her tales of spirited heroines and lusty men make for hours of reading pleasure. Very highly recommended.	2001-07-28
1901215:US	49693975	RO25EQPL13FAE	0373259433	117326712	Bedroom Eyes	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Be careful what you say -- Very highly recommended	Children and families fit neither Anne Harris nor Mitchell Dane's lives. Ann craves corporate success so she can meet her responsibilities. Mitchell desires freedom after over fulfilling his own responsibilities. <br />The owner of Anne's company, Bundles of Joy baby products, holds to old fashioned family values, believing happily married employees with children make responsible employees. With an eye to become the first female vice-president of the company, Anne resorts to her mother's suggestion of buying an fiancé through the Bachelor-in-a-Box agency. She didn't expect to find the photograph provided in her package so mesmerizing -- especially the bedroom eyes.<br />Soon Anne finds herself seeking the man behind the photograph in a desperate attempt to stave off confessing to her illusion. She convinces Mitchell to spend a weekend with her while she presents her &quot;fiancé&quot; to her boss. Mitchell, however, has his own ideas about desire, fantasies and love. Add an exotic treatment for sunburn, a red sarong and exotic flowers, and the seductive results tempt them both beyond limits. But the question remains as to the results of hot sultry nights in the cold light of morning. <br />Sandra Chastain presents a remarkably fun premise in BEDROOM EYES. Just the name, Bachelor in a Box, promises great fun, which Chastain delivers in full measure. And men who love children are irresistible, anyway. Add Chastain's talented pen, they the result is especially yummy. Smart, sexy, and enticing, these memorable characters will waltz right into your fantasies. Highly recommended.	2001-07-28
1901313:US	49693975	R2J3W9632TV1E	0373271646	465972424	Born of Passion (Firstborn Sons) (Silhouette Intimate Moments, 1094)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Lively characterizations! -- Recommended	As tension escalates between Montebello and Tamir, Firstborn Son Kyle Ramsey accepts a top gun position as part of a special operation to patrol the boarders between the feuding territories. As he attempts to ward off acts of terrorism, Kyle also finds himself on a more personal mission regarding Joanna Morgan.<br />Kyle met the elusive beauty three months ago, in a searing night of shared passion. When he'd fallen asleep with her in his arms, it felt like life was finally starting to make some kind of sense. But Joanna slipped out before dawn, leaving behind nothing but memories. A career military man, Kyle is shocked when he shows up for his next mission and learns he'll be working with the woman who has haunted his nights for three months.<br />Joanna never expected to see Kyle again. The night they spent together she had acted completely out of character and displayed a crazy lapse of judgement. That night had also not been without consequences: she's having his baby, but she doesn't intend to tell him. Now they must work together on this shared peace keeping mission and she must maintain her secrets. <br />Funny how love can make two strong willed characters reevaluate their priorities! A career military man and a woman wanting a traditional home would seem to be totally at odds, but leave it to author Carla Cassidy to gently guide her characters through such tempestuous waters. With rich characterization, if a slightly predictable plot, BORN OF PASSION gives birth to a lively love story built around a single night of mind-blowing passion. A strong second novel of the Firstborn Sons miniseries, BORN OF PASSION comes recommended.	2001-07-28
1901479:US	49693975	R1412MZ0FCUQLP	0373244169	139616212	Millionaire In Disguise (Special Edition, 1416)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Dreams and deception -- Very highly recommended	The cherry red '56 T'bird causes Lexie Grayson to hit the breaks on a blind spot on a deserted country road. She offers her mechanical skills to a skeptic, dazzling him with her knowledge of cars. Two hours of repair turn Lexie and Nikos hot, sweaty and dirty. Both thoroughly enjoyed it, and were reluctant to bring the magical afternoon to an end. So they spend the night together, loosing themselves in an extraordinarily magical night that touches their souls. But in the morning light, Nikos has a business to save, and quietly leaves only a note.<br />Lexie has a design business that leads to her millionaire Dominic Santorini's domain. She's shocked when Dominic turns out to be none other than her Nikos of the cherry red T-bird. He's also the man that she believes stole her best friend's video design. Little does Lexie realize that she's likewise suspect. Someone has been committing industrial espionage, and her access to and questions regarding Poseidon Production's latest video game make her look guilty. <br />Nikos can't stop thinking about the tomboy turned temptress. He doesn't want to believe that the magical sprite has to disappear in the clear light of day. As the tension escalates between them, he longs for the magic of their night together. But a storm's coming that threatens to either wash away all the feelings of anger and betrayal in its power of healing, or to destroy everything. <br />Jean Brashear creates a marvelous love story in MILLIONAIRE IN DISGUISE. Lexie's design business and inventive methods result in a background of illusion that lends a magical theme to the entire novel. Further, Lexie fears men leaving, and Nikos fears being loved only for his money, creating a conflict that underlies the novel, forcing questions of betrayal and faith. Further, the overlaying sensuality heightens the tension and lends yet another layer of magic. Very highly recommended.	2001-07-28
1901656:US	49693975	RLJ2XIVMBLYEZ	0373271689	78232493	Too Close for Comfort (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1098) (Intimate Moments, 1098)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award of Excellence	A late night call reporting a lost child sends Rosie Jensen and her companion Sly into the night searching. For two years she and Sly, a cross between a Basset hound and Border collie, have worked search-and-rescue. The darkness lends an aura of mystery, reminding her of the tingling sensation the day before when she felt someone watching.<br />Rosie finds a man who's been gunshot and the missing child, Annmarie. As the past comes rushing back, Rosie must protect this beloved child from an incredibly dangerous situation. The child's mother Lily witnessed a murder linked to the mob, and they will stop at nothing to prevent her from testifying. Lily had been adamant that her sister Rosie would keep Annmarie safe. Lily's neighbor and friend Ian Stearne was bringing Annmarie to Rosie at Kantrovich Island, Alaska when he realized they were being followed. Now both Rosie and Ian must work together so they all can all stay alive until the Lily testifies.<br />Ian's past haunts him. He can't forget the night he got one of his brothers killed. Fifteen years of hell and he's still not welcome in his mother's home. And now something about Rosie, with her delicate floral tattoo wrapped around her wrist, brings back old memories in only a few minutes. But she also brings healing, and acceptance, even in the midst of terrible danger. As he learns her painful secrets, his loving acceptance extends healing to Rosie as well. Together Ian and Rosie find love in the midst of danger, joy in the midst of fear.<br />Award winning author Sharon Mignerey once again demonstrates her superb talent in her newest thriller, TOO CLOSE FOR COMFORT. Memorable characters, unusual background, and a tightly knit plot provide excellent entertainment. I confess to liking characters that present themselves as ordinary people -- yes, Ian's wealthy, but because he bought a winning lottery ticket not because he inherited family money. And he has a wicked past, running with gangs as a teen. Rosie's secretslikewise make her sympathetic and all that much more human. Her power and strength, despite her vulnerabilities, touched my emotions deeply. Further, I couldn't help feeling that these two deserve happiness, as does the remarkable child they protect. Even the dog Sly, short for Sly Devious Beast, is a lot of fun! Very highly recommended.	2001-07-28
1901688:US	49693975	RYZYVQ8WYYL2Y	0373259441	106928186	Wild Fantasy (Fantasies Inc.) (Temptation, 844)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Anything goes! Very highly recommended	In Harlequin Temptation's tantalizing miniseries Fantasies, Inc., Merrilee Schaefer-Weston lives vicariously through the happiness of others. For a hefty fee, she brings guests to Fantasies, Inc, a cluster of four, lush, paradise resorts off the Florida Keys. The final novel of this miniseries by Janelle Denison is named for the island WILD FANTASY. Distinct from the other islands, Wild Fantasy provides the opportunity to combine a vacation that not only benefits guests, but also charity. Wild Fantasy hosts adult games that allow single guests to pair up and engage in sexy, adventurous games based on a points system awarding monetary prizes for a chosen charity. <br />Nicole Britton has held Mitch Lassiter mesmerized for years. Something elusive beneath her bold, spirited persona holds his interest even though they've known each other over seven years. Their mothers are close, and Mitch doesn't want either of them to believe their involvement will lead them to something permanent. Besides, Nichole's carefree noncommittal attitude seems to match his own, so Mitch has followed his resolve to keep things between them casual and amicable despite his attraction.<br />Quite the spirited daredevil, Nicole co owns All Season Outdoor Adventures, which not only puts together vacation packages but also gives her the opportunity to act as a guide on various hiking and rock climbing expeditions, whitewater rafting trips, and such. Competitive, sexy, and audacious, there's still something missing in Nicole's life. Mitch feels himself irresistibly drawn to this sassy, aggressive, mysteriously vulnerable temptress. When their mothers convince Nicole and Mitch to participate in Wild Fantasy's charity competition, they both know they've been set up. But their shared competitive edge and electric charge they share convinces them to enter the competition anyway.<br />At Wild Fantasy the motto &quot;where anything goes and anything is possible.&quot; Janelle Denison delivers fully on that promise, creating a fantastic adventure of fun and passion. Dennison's flair for the dramatic and fiery provides the reader with a marvelous afternoon's read. Indeed, Dennison's sparkling prose creates passionate, sexy characters with surprising depth. Very highly recommended.	2001-07-28
1905351:US	49693975	R2284NUNHJVXQT	1551668203	372776785	Hoodwinked	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A real page-turner -- Highly recommended	The disappearance of art appraiser Ray Pearson raises a cloud of suspicion on the island of St. Margaret in the West Indies. Pearson was reputed to have discovered the Van Gogh painting Kansas sunflowers painting for Simon Van Biers. Since Van Bier's financial empire and questionable business practices rely on the painting, and consequently the economic wellbeing of the island, Pearson's disappearance holds the attention of not just St. Margaret's police, but also the FBI. <br />Tangling with the wrong woman results in bodily injury and makes returning to the rodeo impossible for Billy Blue. When he receives word that his beloved grandmother is dying, he rushes to her side at the hospital. She tells him of painting, and with her dying breath, extracts a promise that Billy will retrieve the painting from his biological father, a man he's never met. Billy's quest leads him first to New York, where he learns of his father's name change to Van Biers, and then to the island of St. Margaret. Along the way, he coincidentally finds himself traveling with curator Zoe Marton, who eventually proves to be seeking the same destination. She doesn't confess, however, her own interest in the Van Gogh sunflower's nor her family's history with the painting.<br />Secrets kept and secrets revealed keep the plot of HOODWINKED by R.J. Kaiser moving smartly along. A hired hit man, and hit woman, a voodoo priestess, and corruption that lead to the door of the president of the island all stem from a painting by Vincent Van Gogh. But since there are actually two paintings, one an alleged copy almost impossible to tell from the original, and people willing to kill to keep both, Billy and Zoe find themselves in dangerous waters, despite the island's lush background. A fun ride that combines romance, drama, and murder, HOODWINKED is a real page-turner that comes highly recommended.	2001-07-25
1907473:US	49693975	R1WI7LQSJ8UVHU	0373834632	573653285	Texas Vows	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Compelling -- Very highly recommended	When the tenth housekeeper in six months quits, a retired lady-marine-turned-house-keeper, Sam McCabe still refuses to admit he and his five boys need the help of a grief counselor, and especially the help of Kate Marten. Kate confronts Sam, stating that what is happening in the aftermath of Ellie's death is not routine, but Sam won't listen. He's always &quot;sucked up&quot; and gotten through emotional times by controlling his emotions, and that is exactly what he and boys will continue to do. In one last effort to help, Kate insists upon becoming their temporary housekeeper, hoping to create opportunities for healing.<br />Kate understands grief. Her brother Pete, Sam's best friend, died in a tragic accident when she was twelve. Her parents coped with the loss much as Sam does -- by stoically keeping their chins up and not confronting the pain. Healing for Kate came in college when she began taking psychology classes. Now Kate pursues the career path she loves through grief counseling. Defying her parents' advice and the harsh words of her fiancé, Kate moves in with Sam's brood for five weeks, determined to bring healing to this hurting household of males. She doesn't expect to have to confront her own needs as well, including the lack of passion in prospective marriage and a wish for the kind of passion Sam shared with Ellie.<br />As TEXAS VOWS unfolds, the humor of the five boys, ages five to eighteen, carefully balances the weightier subject matter. Even the secondary characters are carefully drawn and richly embellished with detail to give them vibrancy. Indeed, TEXAS VOWS is a surprising gem -- with its multi layered plot and multi faceted characters, it sparkles with freshness and depth. The subject of grief and the tragic loss of important characters within the novel result in a compelling read that is heartwarming and &quot;real.&quot; Rather than the typical escape from reality most genre romance novels provide, TEXAS VOWS escapes into reality, confronting our fears of loss and need to live beyond death of loved ones. The characters, including the children, are believable, even allowing teens to be belligerent, angry, and dangerous to self. TEXAS VOWS comes very highly recommended.	2001-07-23
1908581:US	49693975	R2JDDD55FAC2G9	1551666138	147005703	Return To Promise	Books	3	7	7	N	N	A pleasant read -- Recommended	Cal Patterson knew his wife would be furious when she learned that he entered the bull riding event without telling her. Eight seconds of thrilling accomplishment doesn't keep trouble at bay when Jane threatens to leave the arena with their three-year-old son and eighteen-month-old daughter. Such incidents leave Jane feeling that her husband has been less than honest with her. An attractive young woman reintroduces herself to Cal following his ride. Little does he suspect the threat she poses to his marriage or the damage she will purposefully cause to his reputation around town.<br />As trouble begins to escalate between Cal and Jane, she finds herself called away to California to offer support to her mother while her father's hospitalized. Miscommunication and wounded feelings leave both Cal and Jane feeling bereft and frustrated. As frustrations continue to increase, their marriage's strength continues to be undermined. <br />New York Times best-selling author Debbie Macomber returns readers to Promise, Texas. I haven't read the previous books in Debbie Macomber's Promise series, and found that RETURN TO PROMISE reads well as a stand-alone. With heart-warming characters and realistic challenges to this five-year marriage, RETURN TO PROMISE approaches romance with a mature outlook and a practical understanding. Recommended.	2001-07-23
1908701:US	49693975	R36UN1ZNK9RX5T	1931071578	667771573	93 Crane Street	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Fast paced suspense -- Recommended	Oscar winning actress Leila Addams returns with her daughter Robin to Caulderville, Massachusetts, the home of her childhood, following the shocking suicide of her husband. She has inherited the entire estate of Ravenwood, including the family home at 93 Crane Street, under the condition she live in the ancestral home for six months. Leila can't help wondering why her Aunt Charlotte would leave her so much; after all, Leila left home at sixteen and never looked back. Attributing the gift to an old aunt's eccentricity, Leila little suspects the significant role waiting herself and her daughter.<br />Hoping to achieve some measure of anonymity while she recovers from the loss of her husband, Leila is distressed when a reporter recognizes her. Choosing to outflank his inquisition, Leila persuades the newspaper editor to hire her as an investigative reporter, promising an exclusive interview in six months. She soon finds herself drawn into a hunt for a serial killer that stalks red headed women, framing the husbands of his victims for his crimes. <br />If you love the supernatural, 93 CRANE STREET fills the bill with flair. Demonology, satanic cults, murder and tarot cards keep the pages turning in this fast paced occult mystery. In the traditional dance of good verses evil, author Toni LoTempio follows in the steps of Clive Barker and Stephen King to present a fascinating tale of murder and evil. While a bit derivative, the clean writing style and heat stopping pace will hold the reader's attention rapt. Recommended.	2001-07-23
1908752:US	49693975	R396AYZ89DFQJ8	0505524171	839032157	The Warrior (Olympus Series, Book 2)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A sparkling romance -- Highly recommended	Zeus and his band of followers have been banished to Earth in punishment from the Titanic Oracle, the ruling council of their world. Ancient Earth seemed a paradise until man stopped worshiping them and technology usurped magic. Now Hera is a cosmetics queen named Harriet Peacock and Zeus is a successful businessman called Zeke Jupiter. As they attempt to atone for past misdeeds by uniting their descendants with a true love, they hope to break the unexpected legacy that damaged their family lines. <br />FBI Special Agent Armond Marceaux descends from Ares, the god of justice. Truly The Warrior, Armond dedicates his life to law enforcement. But now he suffers from amnesia as the result of being drugged following his capture by a rogue FBI agent. He has only instinct to guide him back to his secluded cabin in Louisiana, where he finds the beautiful Callie looking for him.<br />Callie Gabriel descends from Callisto, the only goddess to suffer permanent harm from Hera's jealousy. Callie inadvertently fills in many pieces to Armond's missing memory. She also announces that she is pregnant. But Gabriel women do not marry and they raise their children alone -- a legacy she's determined to follow. Armond quickly realizes that Callie's presence is a trigger for lost memories, and accompanies her back to New Orleans, hoping he can learn more.<br />Zeus and Hera are outraged to learn the wrong son of Olympus has designs on Callie. But a bet with Dion Backus, or Dionysus the god of wine, quickly leads to their support of this unlikely couple. As the gods' machinations lead to quirky twists, Callie and Armond flee danger and seek answers together. Perhaps this isn't such an impossible love match after all.<br />Author Kathleen Nance's second &quot;Sons of Olympus&quot; tale provides delightful, light hearted entertainment. With tantalizing plot twists and impossible interference, the path to love is a heck of a lot of fun! The fresh premise, fiercely independent and strong willed characters, and complexity of plot result in a sparkling romance. Highly recommended.	2001-07-23
1910680:US	49693975	RRUKPBIZM3JVS	0373834624	608564078	Blame It On Texas	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Blame the fun on author Kristine Rolofson!	Nine years ago Kate McIntosh fled Beauville, Texas when rumor had it that her first love, Dustin Jones, got the waitress of a nearby diner pregnant. Feeling betrayed because he seems to find their own moments in the backseat parked at the Good Night Drive-in so unimportant, Kate leaves for college without ever confronting Dustin. She also never forgot. <br />When the drive-in's destruction coincides with her grandmother's ninetieth birthday, Kate finds herself confronting the past with a vengeance. Especially since Dustin is now living and working on her grandmother's ranch. Little does Kate suspect how much matchmaking is about to go into an attempt to transformation from successful soap-opera script author to owner of her grandmother's ranch.<br />All of the Jones brothers had a wild reputation, including Dustin. He was the one Kate's parents forbade her to date. When Kate disappeared without so much as goodbye, she took his heart with her. Now Dustin finds himself a father to a nine-year-old boy and foreman of the Dead Horse Ranch. He hasn't outgrown his feelings for Kate anymore than he's outgrown his reputation for trouble among the townsfolk.<br />Once again Kristine Rolofson presents a delightful, romantic romp that will certainly entertain. Confronting the past to build a future becomes a theme that binds all three generations of McIntosh women in BLAME IT ON TEXAS. Rolofogson's lively writing style, quirky sense of humor, and perfect sense for irrepressible make BLAME IT ON TEXAS one of her dazzling best reads. Readers who enjoy Rolofson's talent for bringing together unlikely characters will also delight in BLAME IT ON BABIES and BLAME IT ON COWBOYS. BLAME IT ON TEXAS comes highly recommended.	2001-07-21
1910750:US	49693975	R22BYY9EEHEFG	0373709978	874611262	Unexpected Babies: The Talbot Twins (Harlequin Superromance No. 997)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An unexpected pleasure -- Very highly recommended	Just after confronting her husband after yet another burned dinner, a dinner where thirty-eight-year old Kate planned to announce her pregnancy, Kate accidentally steps off a curb into a car. Shock from the resulting accident results in amnesia, and now Kate must reestablish her identity. As family members describe her past, however, Kate quickly comes to dislike the &quot;Saint Kate&quot; they all describe, and subsequently surprises family members with her changes. However, relearning relationships and people proves challenging -- Kate desperately wants to recover her memory, because &quot;the nuances of her family relationships was killing her.&quot; To make matters worse, when she learns she's pregnant by a man Kate doesn't remember, the eighteen-year-old son she doesn't remember isn't exactly thrilled.<br />Alan can't help wondering where his wife disappeared to and where this temptress came from. Rather than the repressed, overly protective, deferential woman he's lived with twenty years, suddenly Alan finds himself with a sexy siren who's not afraid to speak her mind. And he likes it. And he especially likes the fact that she's willing to trust him until he can tell her the truth about his failing business. Alan finds himself in quite a conundrum. After all, his mother walked out when his father couldn't provide enough material wealth. Alan believes it's his job to provide for his own family, and never to worry them if funds are a bit tight. But now they may loose the business. Telling means loosing Kate too, but not telling can also mean loosing Kate. <br />A Romantic Times Top Pick, UNEXPECTED BABIES by Anna Adams boldly deviates from the usual amnesia plot line to present an unexpectedly sensational tale. While most authors use amnesia as an excuse for dependence upon a hero, Adam's heroine is anything but dependent. The opportunity to reevaluate her life and make changes allows her character to grow and change in unexpected directions. Amnesia becomes animpetus for starting over, for making changes, and rethinking relationships, attitudes, and expectations. By surrounding Kate with family, the plot also allows surprising growth not only with the hero but also the secondary characters, thereby presenting a novel surprising depth and filled with surprises. Truly one of the summer's best offerings, UNEXPECTED BABIES is a keeper. Very highly recommended.	2001-07-20
1912653:US	49693975	R3UW406W4WNL6O	0373834632	573653285	Texas Vows	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Compelling -- Very highly recommended	When the tenth housekeeper in six months quits, a retired lady-marine-turned-house-keeper, Sam McCabe still refuses to admit he and his five boys need the help of a grief counselor, and especially the help of Kate Marten. Kate confronts Sam, stating that what is happening in the aftermath of Ellie's death is not routine, but Sam won't listen. He's always &quot;sucked up&quot; and gotten through emotional times by controlling his emotions, and that is exactly what he and boys will continue to do. In one last effort to help, Kate insists upon becoming their temporary housekeeper, hoping to create opportunities for healing.<br />Kate understands grief. Her brother Pete, Sam's best friend, died in a tragic accident when she was twelve. Her parents coped with the loss much as Sam does -- by stoically keeping their chins up and not confronting the pain. Healing for Kate came in college when she began taking psychology classes. Now Kate pursues the career path she loves through grief counseling. Defying her parents' advice and the harsh words of her fiancé, Kate moves in with Sam's brood for five weeks, determined to bring healing to this hurting household of males. She doesn't expect to have to confront her own needs as well, including the lack of passion in prospective marriage and a wish for the kind of passion Sam shared with Ellie.<br />As TEXAS VOWS unfolds, the humor of the five boys, ages five to eighteen, carefully balances the weightier subject matter. Even the secondary characters are carefully drawn and richly embellished with detail to give them vibrancy. Indeed, TEXAS VOWS is a surprising gem -- with its multi layered plot and multi faceted characters, it sparkles with freshness and depth. The subject of grief and the tragic loss of important characters within the novel result in a compelling read that is heartwarming and &quot;real.&quot; Rather than the typical escape from reality most genre romance novels provide, TEXAS VOWS escapes into reality, confronting our fears of loss and need to live beyond death of loved ones. The characters, including the children, are believable, even allowing teens to be belligerent, angry, and dangerous to self. TEXAS VOWS comes very highly recommended.	2001-07-19
1912904:US	49693975	R1CKNQ1NG0JYDN	0967211700	170755335	Mysticus	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Vibrant and unusual	In 1949 Ronald Shepard, the son of servants to a millionaire playboy living on a private island off the coast of South Carolina, meets Marilyn Monroe. This begins the child's movement from innocence to the eventual experience that results in an obsession with sex, power, greed and ambition that shapes the rest of his life.<br />In 2001 seventeen-year-old Cassandra DeRoy has been employed in the world's oldest profession for three years. A dead ringer for Marilyn Monroe, Cassie stands at a street corner one night when Ronald spots her. Remembering his encounter with Marilyn so many years ago, Ronald picks her up and takes her home. He proves to be the gentlest man she'd ever met.<br />In 2018 sixteen-year-old Ginger Todd faces the ugliest elements of her society. Disgusted with her past, Ginger sees no hope of improvement for her future. Adopted to people who don't understand her, Ginger finds herself pregnant and seeking answers to her identity in the journals of her alcoholic mother. For a brief moment, she realizes she had actually been valued, that her existence had not always been an inconvenience and an annoyance.<br />Three narrative flows gracefully intertwine in a powerful novel about love, sex and power. Randall Silvis' fine storytelling mesmerizes the reader, combining wonder, comedy and crassness in an incredibly moving epic that confronts our deepest natures. Light and dark likewise intertwine resulting in a profound revelation of pain and redemption. These vibrant characters enact our greatest desires and our greatest fears, yet touch our hearts and imaginations in ways that are moving and profound. Very highly recommended.	2001-07-19
1916363:US	49693975	RR48BNLMAK62G	0373244053	445674980	Single With Twins (Silhouette 1405)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A spirited heroine -- Recommended	Photojournalist Mack Marshall travels the world, risking dangerous assignments and getting the pictures no one else hazards. Mack always has a camera around his neck and dynamic words to accompany what he had seen. As bullets rain around him, in a remote village in a part of a country no one has ever heard of, Mack realizes there would be no one to mourn his death. When given another chance at life, he follows a forgotten lead, and finds his only remaining family.<br />Heather Marshall unwilling opens her door to a stranger claiming to be her deceased husband's half brother. Second hand clothes and a modest rented house are the best she can afford to provide her beautiful, seven-year-old twin daughters. Mack's presence underscores all the things she can't afford, but Heather has two things Mack doesn't have: family and dreams. Fiercely independent and equally protective of her girls, Heather doesn't want them to fall in love with Mack knowing he's going to leave for parts of the world unknown. Of course, she doesn't want to risk falling herself, either.<br />Joan Elliott Pickart's SINGLE WITH TWINS challenges priorities and perceptions with grace. A simple story made enchanting by a hero and heroine that discover the true worth of love and the joy to be found in reclaiming family and risking the heart. An entertaining, if predictable read, SINGLE WITH TWINS comes recommended.	2001-07-17
1916870:US	49693975	R3CLWON15M080K	0373709986	795035869	His Partner's Wife: 3 Good Cops (Harlequin Superromance No. 998)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	More than devotion or duty -- highly recommended	Years of discussion acclimate her to theoretical details of murder, but still leave Natalie Reed unprepared for gristly reality. When she discovers a body in her study, shock and terror take their toll. Natalie takes comfort that her husband's partner responds to the call and insists on finding her a safe place to stay. As details unfold, Natalie finds she must reevaluate the marriage to that bound her to Stuart Reed for three years. Indeed, Natalie faces, for the first time, the careless cruelty that belied the charm and sexiness her husband usually displayed.<br />Detective John McLean lives the cop's creed: If your partner dies, take care of his family. In spite of his own responsibilities to two young children and an ex-wife disabled by a crippling disease, John finds the time to paint her house, make repairs, and be available as a friend by phone and email. As the danger to Natalie becomes apparent, John finds himself protecting her with something more than just devotion and duty. <br />Friendship grows into something more in HIS PARTNER'S WIFE by Janice Kay Johnson. With a powerful hook to kick off the start of the book, and a surprising solution to missing money, this author keeps the pages turning. Emotionally gripping, each reevaluates the man who brought them together. The heroine was married to a good cop gone bad; the hero was his partner. Both find themselves questioning not just the past and the bad cop's influence on their lives, but also their own judgement. The act of reevaluation, however, brings redemption, allowing them to open to possibilities previously unconsidered. The first of a trilogy, HIS PARNTER'S WIFE PARTNER'S highly recommended.	2001-07-16
1918326:US	49693975	R26C738XQ1JJCY	0373244061	378925614	The McCaffertys: Matt (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Taunt plotting -- highly recommended	In the first book of this miniseries, THE MCCAFFERTYS: THORNE, the eldest McCafferty fall in love with a doctor, breaking the brother's mutual commitment to bachelorhood. In the second book of this miniseries, middle brother Matt watches with amazement has his elder brother enjoys his wife and her twins. Perhaps it is time for Matt to rethink his single status. <br />As sister Randi lies in a comma at the hospital, questions surround her accident. Her brothers believe that she was run off the road while steering around an icy bend in the road, and the accident induced labor. Now her brothers care for her small son, nicknamed J.R., until she recovers. Thorne also encountered a risk to his safety when his plane had engine trouble during a storm, and that easily could have taken his life. Without evidence, however, Detective Kelly Dillinger can only continue to investigate. Then someone injects a dangerous drug into Randi's IV, and it becomes obvious that someone wants to eliminate the McCafferty siblings.<br />Even Kelly's family has an ax to grind against the McCafferty, as does, it seems, the whole town. Millionaires can have that effect on people. Indeed, the town believes that one or all of the brothers intend harm to Randi. Since no one knows who is the father of her baby, even Randi falls victim to the rumor mill. As Kelly continues her investigation, she finds herself increasingly thrown into the company of Matt McCafferty, which makes her none to happy. As far as she's concerned, he's bad news. But the more Kelly resists Matt's attentions, the more determined he becomes to break through her defenses.<br />The underlying tension from the threats to the McCaffertys makes for a real page turner. Indeed, the tension neatly mirrors the tension between hero and heroine as Matt begins his pursuit of his intended bride. With these richly realized characters and careful plotting, Lisa Jackson pens yet another winner in this fascinating miniseries. Readers will look forward to the next installment in the miniseries, due out in December 2001, THE MCCAFFERTYS: SLADE. Highly recommended.	2001-07-15
1919927:US	49693975	R3KCKRPY1VUQIG	037370996X	971036253	Money Man: Creature Comfort (Harlequin Superromance No. 996)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Winner of the WordWeaving Award of Excellence	Dr. Sarah Marson forsakes the wretched Minnesota cold and men who wish to run her life for the warmer climates of Memphis Tennessee where she's been promised a veterinarian position at a state of the art clinic Creature Comforts. But cost overruns at the new clinic, wet weather, and vandalism cut deeply in the budget. Now if Sarah wants all the perks she's been promised, she's going to have to take on the money man, Mark Scott. <br />Mark doesn't know much about animals, but he does know how to keep a budget. Unfortunately, the equipment promised to Sarah doesn't fit the budget, and he doesn't see the value of running the clinic any further in the red to obtain equipment he believes they can do without. But with the arrival of Sarah, which he finds disconcerting enough, also comes the unconnected arrival of a ragamuffin puppy during a downpour. As Mark coaxes the nearly drowned puppy out from under his car, little does he suspect how either the woman or the dog will open his heart.<br />Filled with typical events of a large animal veterinarian's life, THE MONEY MAN is a must read. From Egg Roll, the Vietnamese pot belly pig, to the tennis ball swallowing Ball's python, THE MONEY MAN creates marvelous characterizations of both the two legged, four legged, and even no legged variety. Author Carolyn McSparren effectively stirs the emotions, whether it is tears at a needless death, giggles at the puppy that steals the hero's heart, or laughter at the unusual wedding. Filled with compelling incidents easily drawn from my own experience with pets, I couldn't put THE MONEY MAN down. Winner of the WordWeaving Award of Excellence. Very highly recommended.	2001-07-14
1920789:US	49693975	R3N3NVIMDBZ3XV	0373244088	401568409	When I See Your Face : The Windraven Legacy (Silhouette Special Edition No. 1408) (Silhouette 1408)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Dynamic and memorable -- Very highly recommended	Detective Shannon Bannock goes to pay for her gas in a convenience store in Wind River, Wyoming, and walks in on a robbery in progress. On the chance following of the town's veterinarian Rory Daniels saves her life when a bullet takes her out. Unfortunately, when the bandages come off some weeks later, Shannon is blind.<br />When Shannon decides she's ready for a relationship, she wants friendship, steadfastness and respect rather than the delirious loss of reason to passion and emotion. With his pretty face and arrogant attitude, Rory does not fit her specifications. Further, they certainly shouldn't be starting a relationship when she's recovering from such a devastating, hopefully temporary, life change.<br />It didn't take Rory long, as he grew up, to realize that females were attracted to his looks, money and family name rather than him. Consequently, he quickly learned to keep his distance. He knows what he wants in a woman: such qualities as soft-spoken, smart, loyal, gentle and safe. Conversely, Shannon is headstrong, brash and argumentative. <br />With the shooter at large, a dangerous element underlies the major life changes resulting from sudden blindness. Rather than yielding to self-pity, this remarkable heroine struggles to regain her independence and to follow her career dreams of switching from law enforcement to counseling. Her strength of character is refreshing, and her ability to accept help without dependence remarkable, resulting in a terrific characterization. Combined with a sexy hero, WHEN I SEE YOUR FACE becomes dynamic and memorable, coming very highly recommended.	2001-07-13
1920860:US	49693975	R10MIE3YM77L1Y	0373259379	567842659	Never Say Never Again (The Magnificent Mccoy Men)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Be careful what you say -- Very highly recommended	As a teen, Bronte O'Brien preferred loosing herself in books to taming her wild hair and learning fashion sense. Of course, that made her wallflower at all the school dances, but with standing a head taller than all the other girls precluded dancing anyway. College brought self assurance and many admirers, although Bronte didn't entertain a serious relationship until she met a special fellow lawyer -- too bad he neglected to tell her that he's already married until after he put an engagement ring on her hand. So despite her wild attraction to Connor McCoy, Bronte has no intentions of falling in love.<br />Brother David's wedding leaves Connor McCoy feeling like time has passed him by. As the eldest of five brothers, he's the only one left single. But Connor never intends to share his heart and risk marriage -- especially with a bold, fiery redhead. She'd always been his secret fantasy, and a woman he refused to become involved with. He'd purposely made her unobtainable and out of bounds. But when they cross paths at the reception of his brother's wedding, he can't resist a kiss which gets quickly out of hand.<br />As an attorney in the U.S. attorney's office, Bronte puts together cases against criminals to take them to trial. As part of the U.S marshal's office, Connor works in the Witness Security and Protection division, protecting witnesses from the criminals as cases go to trial. So when Connor finds himself framed for murder, its Bronte who must piece together the evidence and prove his innocence. Not an easy feat when her own office takes the case out of her hands and evidence mounts -- and when her personal feelings for this ruggedly independent man get in the way.<br />Tori Carrington turns on the heat in NEVER SAY NEVER AGAIN. The dynamic writing team of Lori and Tony Karayianni earn a well-deserved Romantic Times Top Pick award for this feisty conclusion to The Magnifient McCoy Men miniseries. With their characteristic flair for snappy dialogue and carefully crafted wordplay, these authors keep the pages turning. Indeed, the multi layered conflict and multi faceted characters combine in a fast faced adventure that teaches the eldest McCoy brother NEVER SAY NEVER AGAIN. Very highly recommended.	2001-07-13
1922533:US	49693975	R2XWCRTFOYA7CU	0821771108	205819355	Making Over Mike (Regency contemporary romance)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Great mind candy -- Very highly recommended	Begin with a career girl determined jump-start her business. Add one out-of-work chef working as a part-time taxi driver. Include heated attraction. The result a delicious, eclectic romance light on the palate and heavy on the fun.<br />Serial dieter and personal life coach Amanda Connor will go to any lengths to make Aspirations, Inc a success. She sets up a lottery and anxiously waits at the last minute for a winner, while the TV station manager threatens to withdrawal all support of her company. She brags that she can transform any man, but secretly hopes for one with strong possibilities. So when the taxi guy shows up with the winning ticket, she finds herself making good on her promise, despite the condition of his clothes and attitude. Mike doesn't want to be on TV and he doesn't want to discuss his personal goals -- even if he had any. When she enters Mike's world, however, she has absolutely no idea how to cope with it.<br />Mike Cavaco finds the Lotto tickets in the backseat cushions of his taxi. He only agrees to go along with the Lotto because he &quot;can't stand to see a perfectly nice girl lose her TV-news deal because of him.&quot; Despite his determination to be a nice guy, however, he doesn't think much of Amanda's plans for a makeover at a posh resort and a shopping spree. Mike thinks he gets all the &quot;buff and polish&quot; he needs every morning in the shower. Yet he finds himself swept away by Amanda, into an outrageous world of women whistling at his knees and toe waxing.<br />MAKING OVER MIKE is an outlandish comic delight for the poolside summer reader. Witty dialogue, pleasing characters and a humorous plot, this novel has all the necessary elements to satisfy a craving for romance. The secondary characters are also a lot of fun, including the mother with paste handprints on her pants and the creator of modern art. Such detail gives MAKING OVER MIKE a hint of depth without bogging down the narrative. MAKING OVER MIKE is great mind candy!Very highly recommended.	2001-07-12
1923382:US	49693975	RMF4JQLUEO122	0505524392	705074754	A Passionate Magic (Heartspell)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Bewitching passion -- Very highly recommended	When he commands an end to the feud between Lord Dain of Penruan and Baron Gavin of Wroxley, King Henry stipulates that one of Gavin's daughters must marry Dain. Eighteen-year-old Emma volunteers to go because of concerns regarding her younger sister's health. After hearing Dain's speech to the king, Gavin knows that Dain would prefer revenge to a bride, but yields only because of oath of fealty to the king. Besides, Emma knows she won't find a husband closer to home. Too many men knew of her education and magical abilities, preferring to wed more docile and mundane women.<br />In Cornwall, Dain's immediate attraction to Emma leaves him stunned. He had prepared to wed a child of seven, expecting to put her away before she was old enough to wed. Instead, he found himself married to a striking beauty determined to make herself useful to him and his people. Even as he treats her with suspicion, Dain comes to realize that Emma's passion for him is genuine. Too bad he accepted responsibility for a feud he cannot put aside. Indeed, it irks him that he can find no fault in her. As each piece of the past comes to light, revealing the truth surrounding the feud between the families, the tension and betrayals increase. <br />Flora Speer weaves a surprisingly complex tale against a medieval tapestry. Threads of magic interspersed with strong emotion result in a romance filled with bewitching passion and sweeping intensity. The use of magic is selective, never overpowering the narrative, yet helping it to move along smoothly. Indeed, A PASSIONATE MAGIC is a moving and beautiful tale of love determined to grow under tremendous odds. Very highly recommended.	2001-07-11
1923663:US	49693975	R3H9K6FPY8UKM3	037324407X	52058772	Handprints (Silhouette 1407)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	When logic and emotion clash -- Highly recommended	Assistant County Prosecutor Jack Granger is a &quot;just the facts&quot; kind of guy. Emotional issues leave him floundering. So when his daughter's teacher calls him in for yet another conference, he's not prepared for her to insist that Kitty is developmentally behind her peers because she still grieves her deceased mother. With the teacher, Abby Walsh, everything is about feelings.<br />When a friend with a counseling background suggest that Abby approach Jack logically, rather than with her heart, he finally listens. Chocolate chip cookies and videos lead to the realization that Jack's beloved daughter needs more help than he can provide. As a condition to his acceptance of Abby's suggestion for counseling, Jack insists that Abby tutor Kitty during the summer. So much for this schoolteacher's objectivity and determination to keep her relationship with strictly professional.<br />Myrna Temte proves the power of second chances and belief in the power of love in HANDPRINTS. With multifaceted characters that touch the heart, HANDPRINTS presents the complexities and challenges of overcoming grief, not only for a father who's lost his wife, but also for the young daughter. With a deep understanding of the grieving process, Temte's novel explores the power of love to heal. Highly recommended.	2001-07-11
1923994:US	49693975	RZYOIWNVYVDH2	0373259395	310615954	Smooth Moves	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Vivid and memorable! Very highly recommended	Cathy Beachball, they had called her all those years ago. Even though she discovered the gym and a dietician while in college, Cathy's wounds regarding her weight never entirely healed. Only one boy, her first crush in fifth grade, had looked beyond the exterior to see the beauty of the girl within. Cathy never forgot him.<br />When she moves back to Quimby to own and operate the craft store, Cathy encounters the legend surrounding the boy she remembers. Now called Heartbreak Brody, Zach dated every eligible woman in town at some point, leaving each heart broken but still friends; that is, except for Laurel. Zach supposedly left her standing at the altar, and she's vowed revenge. Now Zach's also returned to town, and Laurel has a plan. <br />Laurel convinces Zach's former flames to unite in an effort to help Cathy break his heart. Though she never really plans to cause him harm, Cathy can't resist the impetus that results in her transformation from dowdy to sensational. Nor can she resist the sexy Zach, with whom she almost immediately falls in love. <br />As the past comes unraveled, to reveal a number of undermining and manipulative threads, author Carrie Alexander turns up the Heat in SMOOTH MOVES. Zach's reputation as a &quot;smooth operator&quot; provides a marvelous bed of conflict, giving the plot a lively theme. With a vivid cast of characters and intense conflict, SMOOTH MOVES comes very highly recommended.	2001-07-11
1924550:US	49693975	R1F021N2XZJD5J	037324410X	866948736	Child She Always Wanted (Family Revelations) (Silhouette 1410)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	characters are both strong and vulnerable	He'd always been a mystery to her. Rachel Quinn's unrequited high school crush ended when her family moved when she was fifteen. Now his sister's child brings them together when she delivers the two-week-old infant to her Uncle Kane Riley. She knew this wasn't going to be easy, but she certainly couldn't have predicted the results of her 1200-mile trip. <br />Kane inherited the house, the same home that had at one time belonged to Rachel's family. He'd been the town bad-boy. She had been the girl he'd gone to sleep thinking about, but he'd never indicated how he felt. Unexpected announcement regarding the death of his sister, and the delivery of the infant into his custody, shocks Kane, but no more than his reaction to Rachel. <br />Without any experience with children, Kane demands that Rachel stay until he can find the baby's father or hire a nanny. Rachel knows she's growing too attached, that she'd walk away from her home and career in a heart beat to gain a family, yet she stays.  As baby and nanny take over his life, Kane's torn between longing for his previously uneventful, quiet life and satisfaction in his new connection to other people. But for Rachel and Kane to become a family, they both have to face the secrets of the past.<br />The sexual and emotional tension keeps the pages turning in Jennifer Mikels THE CHILD SHE ALWAYS WANTED. Both lives lacking, both lives guarded and simple until a child brings them together, the hero and heroine find making a life around this child that they inadvertently share both challenging and necessary. With a deep understanding for her character's motivation, Mikels' characters are both strong and vulnerable, making THE CHILD SHE ALWAYS WANTED highly recommended.	2001-07-10
1925409:US	49693975	R1IMUHEOA8M83R	0373763751	200203855	Cowboy Fantasy (Man Of The Month) (Desire, 1375)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A mix of fantasy and desire -- Highly recommended	He's her darkest fantasy, and strongest desire. She's his impossible spitfire that's done him wrong. But when Melody Woods leaves North Black at the altar, he swears off the woman who is an exhibitionist in public and a shy and frightened kitten in private. The extremes have driven him wild, and eventually have driven him off. So when Melody leaves the boring ranch life behind for the excitement of exotic travel, North thinks he's seen the last of her. He thinks wrong.<br />Melody's motto is &quot;show but don't let them touch.&quot; Scarred from a sixth grade incident with cruel boys, Melody's never been able to let any man touch her. In these modern days of casual sex, she's a virgin with only her dark fantasies to keep her warm. Her unfortunately mixed signals are enough to drive North craze. But now she wants him back, and is willing to do whatever it takes to lure this sexy rancher to her bed.<br />Ann Major's superbly detailed characters who bear indelible marks from the past results in COWBOY FANTASY. Both hero and heroine must accept that while the past cannot be erased, they can learn to live past it. Indeed, the heroine's coming into her own power, boldly facing not just her past but his also, makes for a potent read. Highly recommended.	2001-07-10
1925689:US	49693975	R1Q7HSLBG2KNQN	0373710003	673106083	All Summer Long: Daddy's Girl/Home, Hearth and Haley/Temperature Rising (Harlequin Superromance Anthology, No 1000)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Good enough to last all summer long	Harlequin Superromance celebrates two decades with ALL SUMMER LONG, a collection of three novellas by Judith Arnold, Muriel Jensen and Bobby Hutchinson. While unrelated, they are united in their presentation of conflict and romance.<br />&quot;Daddy's Girl&quot; by Judith Arnold: A child custody case brings Kevin Mdeina, one-year-old Alex and social worker Natalie Baines into a collision course. He fears every nuance, every subtlety, every implication of his words out of concern of what he might reveal to this woman who holds the power to influence the removal custody of his child, and because he's attracted to her. She holds her distance because he represents a conflict of interest when she must only concern herself with the child's best interest.<br />&quot;Home, Hearth and Haley&quot; by Muriel Jensen: When his best friend's sister lands in jail, lawyer Bart Megrath finds himself bailing Hellfire Haley Whitcomb out of jail. He's up to the task, however, despite the fact her last lawyer was carried out on a stretcher.<br />&quot;Temperature Rising&quot; by Bobby Hutchinson: Dr. James Burke understands the power of healing, but doesn't understand the power of the heart until he encounters hospital administrator Melissa Clayton. Melissa is just the woman to give James a lesson in bedside manners.<br />Characterized by strong characterizations emotional intensity, ALL SUMMER LONG presents three strong tales of romance. Jensen's novella launches the beginning of her Men of Maple Hill series, and Hutchinson's novella introduces her Temperature Rising series. This collection comes very highly recommended.	2001-07-10
1925938:US	49693975	R2VMJHLLEZNY8G	0373763794	978603366	Sultan's Heir (Sons of the Desert: The Sultans) (Desire, 1379)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A rich tapestry of desire and destiny	Rosalind Lewis believed her connection to her husband's family ended when he died years ago. Her attempt to contact the great-grandfather of her child was cruelly rebuffed, and she resigned herself to forgetting both the man she loved and the family she never knew. So when Sheikh Najib blasts into her life claiming her son is in danger, Rosalind considers him too late -- about five years too late.<br />When the three cousins follow a bank notice of payment due to a safety deposit box, they don't expect to find two envelopes including a will and a letter to their grandfather. The will leaves their deceased cousin's holdings to his wife, Rosalind Lewis, a woman they've never heard of. Najib follows the paper trail to London, but security demands that he not reveal the entire story that requires his intervention in Rosalind's life. Now he must persuade this justifiably angry woman that her son's in danger and only he can protect them both. <br />With equal respect to the ancient power, found in standing stones and odd corners of the world, and the exotic, the land of sultans and political assignations, Alexandra Sellers creates an extraordinary romance. THE SULTAN'S HEIR condenses a multi-layered plot into a deftly woven tale short on pages and long on complexity. As each secret reveals yet another layer, the reader is drawn into a rich tapestry of desire and destiny. The first novel of the Sons of the Desert trilogy, THE SULTAN'S HEIR comes very highly recommended.	2001-07-10
1927343:US	49693975	R3HDRBTN3ANLWO	0373244096	837332307	Match Made In Wyoming (Wyoming Wildflowers) (Silhouette 1409)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Painful vulnerabilities -- Recommended	Patricia McLinn's Wyoming Wildflowers miniseries continues with MATCH MADE IN WYOMING, bringing together two quite unlikely characters. Indeed, they have nothing in common except a mutual friend and denied passion.<br />A searing kiss under the mistletoe proves that lawyer Taylor Larson and ranch manager Cal Ruskoff share a possibility for explosive passion. Despite their attraction, however, it takes their matchmaking buddy Mattie and a rescued dog to bring these fiercely independent characters two together. When they are snowed in together, passion ignites, and the resulting fire threatens to consume them both. <br />Unfortunately, snowplows to the rescue dampen the flames as Cal resurrects the walls he builds between himself and all others. Indeed, Cal's past has left him badly scarred, and unwilling to risk his heart. He only accepts Sin, the rescued dog, under protest, and allowing Taylor to know of his past leaves him unbearably vulnerable. <br />Although the plot seems to loose its momentum toward the end, MATCH MADE IN WYOMING is a delightful read with its rich characterizations. The hero's vulnerability makes him especially appealing, despite his tendency to push the heroine away even as they draw closer. Further, the dog threatens to steal the show with his charm and theatrics. Recommended.	2001-07-09
1927435:US	49693975	R3JPEAKPXFCTHU	0505524163	572176162	Moonshadow (Candleglow)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Predictable, yet a good read -- highly recommended	Justine brings the doctor's daughter Madeleine, his new bride, to Steyning Hall after only a six-week courtship. Madeleine had expected a country home, not this imposing, gloomy castle. Nor did she expect to live with ghosts and frightening family history. The sensation of eyes watching quickly gives way to something far more sinister, as Madeleine's dreams begin an account of the past, each night like a chapter from a book.<br />Justine keeps both his past and much of his present a secret. Servants eventually tell Madeleine of Justin's parent's mysterious deaths, but he never alludes to them. A dinner conversations gives indication of his dangerous occupation when away from home. In addition, Justine does not believe that Madeleine's strange dreams result from any ghostly specters. Rather, he blames her geographical change and adjustment to marriage. As past and present meld for Madeleine, however, the possibility of danger mounts.<br />While the path is predictable, the journey is pleasant, as two narratives link the traitorous past to the dangerous present in Penelope Neri's MOONSHADOW. Neri's narrative borrows from all the classic gothic techniques to present a surprisingly light-hearted read, maintaining its gothic roots despite its light, sensuous treatment. Indeed, ghosts walk, dreams tell of the past, and betrayal lurks where least expected, but the truly frightening elements seldom appear, leaving the reader with a delightful, slightly offbeat, yet highly entertaining read.	2001-07-09
1929010:US	49693975	RMRVWC4W3CF8B	1583454764	414979052	The Wings of Love	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A light, entrancing read -- Recommended	Treyanna's dreams tell her of the man she's destined to love, but her father has other ideas, planning to marry her off to a human of the McDonagh clan. Despite her father's insistence that the survival of their fairy race depends on her union with the selected human, Treyanna refuses to allow an arranged marriage. She inadvertently triggers a magical spell that &quot;crosses over&quot; thrusting her into the human world of Ireland. The spell also lands her right in the presence of a McDonagh three hundred years in the future.<br />Sean Rafferty McDonagh has similar dreams, but he vows he hasn't the time for a woman. As the only son of the world's richest man, he spends most of his time thwarting father's plans for him. When Treyanna seemingly appears out of nowhere, Sean would prefer to believe that she's a lunatic than accept the truth of her origin. Sean believes that magic is achieved only through the use of smoke and mirrors. So even as this fascinating beauty entrances his heart, Sean refuses to believe that she can read his mind or that she's a fairy -- even when she explains that without belief she'll cease to exist.<br />In the tradition of Peter Pan, Karen Williams brings to life an exquisitely tender and touching tale of magic and love. While the borrowing of our cultural icons is a bit heavy-handed, and could do with further fleshing out of the these lovely characters -- especially the secondary characters including Sean's father -- THE WINGS OF LOVE is a delightful read. Light-hearted and entrancing, THE WINGS OF LOVE proves that deftness of Williams' pen is worth watching for in future works. Recommended.	2001-07-07
1930548:US	49693975	RUY4CZDV87CCC	0373259387	635780621	Flashback (Temptation, 838)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Playful and great fun! Highly recommended	She fell in love with Jack Thomas when she was sixteen. He had been nineteen, out of school, working as a carpenter's apprentice until he headed off to college on a football scholarship in the fall. Then he got another girl pregnant and broke her heart. Twelve years may have passed, but Laura Kincaide doesn't intend to leave herself that vulnerable ever again.<br />When Jack lost his football scholarship, he also lost his best friend. Laura had followed him around like an adoring puppy, until the summer when she was sixteen. Then he saw her, for the first time, as the woman she would become. Stolen kisses ignited his passion, but a foolish mistake cost him everything, but gave him a beautiful daughter. Now Laura's back, and Jack can't resist rising to the challenge when they are thrown together working on the same project.<br />The once gracious Victorian house sags with neglect. As a teenager, Laura dreamed of sharing the house with Jack and raising their children there. So she can't resist the lure when she's offered the opportunity to restore the interior to its original glory. When Jack shows up to do the carpentry, Laura vows to keep her distance rather than walk away from a restoration she's dreamed about for years.<br />The playful undertone of FLASHBACK will keep the reader smiling as Laura draws big Xs with tape to keep Jack on his side of the house. Delightfully rich with humor and healing, FLASHBACK's vivid characterizations come alive with their warmth and feistiness. The emotional conflict which forms the premise for this memorable novel results in a fascinating, satisfying read that comes highly recommended.	2001-07-06
1930625:US	49693975	R3MUXBOZ6O3708	0821768166	22309935	Glass Houses (Zebra romantic suspense)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A great page turner -- Highly recommended	Curiosity keeps NYPD detective Aiden Flynn heading upstairs to tend orchids belonging to a man he doesn't like. Ryan D. Hill's upstairs apartment benefits from sun and money, keeping both his plants and his computer in top-notch condition. So when Aiden's computer's on the fritz again, it seems logical for him to check email on his neighbor's machine.<br />Ryan's also with the NYPD, but his nefarious activities quickly come to Aiden's attention when he snoops in Ryan's email. Using the handle Sam, Ryan has befriended photographer Olivia FitzDurham. When she relates some rather suspicious circumstances, Ryan's email encourage Olivia to fly to New York, leaving behind the dangerous men intent on some photos she took for a London magazine. At a loss as to why anyone would want the photos, Olivia flees when a man fails in an attempt to push her from the tube platform to the tracks below.<br />Aiden pretends to be Sam, and aids in finalizing her plans to come to New York, meeting Olivia at the airport. Soon Ryan convinces his superiors that Olivia and Aiden are violent criminals and leads the chase after them. The resulting cross country chase intersperses danger with romance as Aiden and Olivia race against the stacking odds against them in a quest to prove their innocence. <br />GLASS HOUSES weaves the ridiculous and the dangerous in a taut plot guaranteed to keep the pages turning. Bumbling bad guys, one who delights in feeding crumbs to the rats in his pockets, and a nymphomaniac woman give the novel an offbeat flavor. As the heroine struggles against the machinations in which she's become an unwitting part, her unexpected shows of strength result in a powerful character. In addition, the hero with the police dog with iron teeth, are reminiscent of the classic Columbo character, resulting in the perfect foil for this fun heroine. GLASS HOUSES comes highly recommended.	2001-07-06
1932057:US	49693975	R36GTOSVLL3A24	0373709994	905480204	The Baby Cop: Count on a Cop (Harlequin Superromance No. 999)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Another winner of WordWeaving.com Award of Excellence	It was inevitable that &quot;Baby Cop&quot; Ethan Knight, a detective in Desert City, Arizona, and Regan Grant, a social worker and supervisor for Child Help services, would clash. He believes in meeting the needs of children in crisis first, then following through with paperwork and red tape. If that means circumventing the system, then so be it. She believes the rules which govern the placement and care of children have been implemented with their best interests in mind, and following the rules benefits all of the children all of the time.<br />But this by-the-book supervisor has both a heart and also very human weaknesses. Regan loves children, though a tragic accident when she was child ensures she will never have any of her own. She still bears the physical scars and the very tender emotional wounds of that accident, making her both vulnerable and brave. And Ethan has a way of touching her heart, of making her want to heal, and of helping her see beyond the red tape, despite the risks to her hard earned career. A strongly principled, highly ethical character, Regan can't help but touch the reader's heart.<br />Ethan's the hero of any woman's romantic dream. A maverick that the town loves and the director of Child Help services has declared war upon, Ethan comes to see appreciate the strengths of a woman who follows the rules. As her presence touches his heart, making him hope for a home and family of his own, Ethan can't help falling for this wounded yet beautiful woman. The more determined she is to push him away, the more Ethan recognizes the vulnerabilities and fears that have resulted from her painful past.<br />Once again award winning author Roz Denny Fox produces a tale to touch the heart in THE BABY COP. Even the cover of this delightful romance deserves mention with the four adorable cops surrounding the hero, one of whom has borrowed his police hat! With a flair for the unexpected, and delightfully realized characters who come alive, THE BABY COP notonly provides diverting and engrossing reading, but an underlying serious tone regarding children in social programs gives a second pause for thought. The tension between the hero and heroine as each attempts to adhere to their own very high ethical standards, even while meeting the needs of children, provides a taunt plot that moves along quickly, making THE BABY COP very highly recommended.	2001-07-05
1933159:US	49693975	R18HFMVDYJFGVU	0373763786	504185974	The Pregnant Heiress (The Fortunes Of Texas: The Lost Heirs) (Desire, 1378)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Lively and intense -- Highly recommended	When Flynn Sinclair tracks Emma Michaels to Texas, he impressed with the resourceful, cheerful, hardworking expectant mother. The sexy private investigator also considers her a bit flaky with her chakra stones and numerology, but he still can't help admiring her long legs. His purpose of reuniting her with her mother served, Flynn finds he doesn't want to walk away from this extraordinary woman.<br />Emma came to Texas to escape her ex-fiancé, an ex-cop turned bounty hunter who continues to stalk her. Fearful of her safety, she allows Flynn to convince her to hire him as her full-time bodyguard. He takes her to his isolated cabin, and they inevitably fall in love. But that's the only inevitability in this sparkling tale as the conflict escalates with an interfering family and the interference of the past. <br />THE PREGNANT HEIRESS is a sparkling, spicy tale with complex conflict and deep characterizations. Lively and intense, the emotional conflicts don't back down in this rich tale. It's always a pleasure to read romances that allow pregnant women both their strength and their femininity, giving them passion in bed and out. Highly recommended.	2001-07-04
1933960:US	49693975	R1T1P2OOH8EX5	0804119678	574138889	Just Breathe	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Breath taking -- Very highly recommended	Fifteen years ago a beautiful young reporter died mysteriously when she went to the Volksgarten in Vienna, Austria to meet a source. If her source told the truth, then she could have been on the path to a very promising career. Instead, in the moment she lay dying, she recognized the executioner as a friend.<br />In the present day, Chloe Nichols seems to draw trouble. Part of a very exclusive tour, Chloe is hoping the magazine she works for will buy her story and reimburse her expenses. She intends to write about how the jet set travels, but the tour hasn't gone as planned. First it was the cow and then it was an altercation in the hotel room. But her most remarkable disaster occurs when she trips over a dead body as she disembarks a train. Fortunately, a handsome, incredibly sexy stranger immediately comes to Chole's aid, and helps her to avoid the police's uncomfortable questions. <br />Matthew can't resist the marvelous woman who combines innocence with a backbone. His startling kiss, begun to make the police not notice them, turns into an encounter that defies all reason and logic. What began as a measure to be certain there would be no repercussions for what Chloe had or hadn't seen, became something entirely more. He hadn't been able to save Lisa fifteen years ago. This time he won't let anything happen to Chloe. <br />Sabra Hitchcock shot Charles Messer as he disembarked the train, cursing the klutzy woman who managed to get rescued by the man she wants, has always wanted. Matthew is both her nemesis and her obsession. An ex CIA agent turned mercenary, Sabra's a dangerous woman to cross. And whether she knows it or not, Chloe's interest in Matthew places her directly in the line of fire.<br />Dee Davis' marvelous voice combines irreverence, romance, and amusement to create a memorable read. Indeed, Davis strings words together with the grace worthy of a poet, displaying her remarkable mastery of language with every page. Further, plot twists and teasers keepthe reader not only wondering at character's motives, but also involved with the humorous subplot -- the bit with the cow and naked man kept me in stitches! The eccentric and realistic main characters keep the reader amused even as the danger builds. Equally remarkable are the wonderful secondary characters, each carefully crafted. Most memorable are the &quot;muses&quot; who can be my travelling companions anytime, except Irma needs to leave her gun at home. Very highly recommended.	2001-07-04
1934370:US	49693975	R3TL4ITIJQIBWX	0373763778	968382724	His Baby! (Bachelor Battalion) (Desire, 1377)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Danger comes in many forms! -- Highly recommended	U.S. Marine Jeff Hunter thrives under the risk of danger. Belly crawling on beaches to save diplomats or risking his life for his country comes easy. Taking care of his new daughter, the one he meets when she's already nine months old, proves to be the greater challenge.<br />Jeff met Kelly began their relationship with a lip lock when he performed CPR, and remained in a similar lip lock for the entirety of his two-week leave. The following eighteen months were reduced to postcards and a single five-minute phone call, but Jeff couldn't forget Kelly, and eagerly looked forward to his leave so he could return to her arms. <br />Jeff never expected to be met at the door by Kelly's enraged brother or his three backups on the front porch. And he wasn't prepared for the second female to capture his heart, much as the Kelly had done. Now Kelly's the mother of HIS BABY!, and Jeff determined to do the right thing. Too bad she doesn't see it his way.<br />Maureen Child lends a delightfully vivid spin on this classic plot in HIS BABY! The heroine's fierce independence and willingness to remain in Jeff's life without demanding a career change provides a refreshing and sparkling characterization. The vividly realized scene with the new father asleep with baby on his chest and fierce, Kelly's brother asleep nearby is wonderful! Indeed, These powerful characters, including the overly protective brothers, result in a superb read, making HIS BABY! highly recommended.	2001-07-04
1935666:US	49693975	RI9VF76G6G6VF	0505524457	924479709	The Pleasure Master	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Sizzling! Very highly recommended	&quot;Men. Cars. Great form, no function, and they both overheated at the wrong time. Who needed them?&quot; And so begins Kathy Barlett's thoughts as she stands stranded at the side of the road on Christmas Eve with only her purse, backpack of hair products, and a bag of children's gifts. When she wishes to for a peaceful vacation without stress and with a subservient man, Kathy receives the exact opposite. She's thrust into the year 1542 with a testosterone laden &quot;Pleasure Master&quot; who's vocation is to teach women the secrets of sensual pleasure.<br />In the first moments of her time travel escapade, Kathy finds herself lying on the ground looking up at two fantastic sets of buns. Of course, men don't wear BVDs under their kilts in the sixteenth century, so the view can't be helped. Fighting them off with a can of mouse on their &quot;love guns&quot; leaves the third brother, Ian Ross, impressed with her spirit. <br />On one hand, no man has ever created sizzle in Kathy with just a look. Ian, however, leaves her with &quot;the unspoken promise that nothing will ever be the same.&quot; On the other hand, no woman has ever looked beyond the title of Pleasure Master to see the heart of the man beneath. Kathy's presence in his life promises to force him to examine emotions he's kept tightly controlled since he was eight years old. <br />Add a couple of brothers who want to the position of the Pleasure Master, a cell phone that miraculously spans the centuries, and the lack of caffeine and chocolate, and the result is a scorching tale of attraction. With interactive toys and hair styling items from Kathy's bags of goodies, this impossibly fun plot never slows down.<br />Witty eroticism reaches new heights in the hands of author Nina Bangs in her latest novel, THE PLEASURE MASTER. Prepare to suspend your disbelief, because this improbable, rollicking tale of time travel is worth the walk on the edge of ridiculous. A remarkable blend of extremes, including charming, endearing, and exciting, THE PLEASURE MASTER lends a new definition to the word tease as it titillates the reader. Running the entire gambit of emotions, it even brought tears to my eyes with its touching conclusion. Indeed, this erotically intense, wildly imaginative romp is remarkable in scope, humorous to the extreme, and a keeper! Very highly recommended.	2001-07-03
1938617:US	49693975	R1CBCJHUTG2LMJ	0373259409	15851435	Intimate Fantasy (Harlequin Temptation No. 840)(Fantasies Inc.)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	It's a fantasy come true! --  Very highly recommended	Harlequin Temptation has a tantalizing miniseries called Fantasies, Inc. Merrilee Schaefer-Weston lives vicariously through the happiness of others. For a hefty fee, she brings guests to Fantasies, Inc, a cluster of four, lush, paradise resorts off the Florida Keys. A stickler about client confidentiality, Merrilee offers people's deepest, most private secrets and desires. At the end of their fantasy, guests have a choice of walking away and continuing as they were before, or accepting a risk that changes their lives. The third novel of this miniseries by Julie Kenner is named for the island INTIMATE FANTASY. <br />Kyra Cartwright wants one fling before she saves the family business by accepting the marriage proposal of Harold Stovall, President and Chairman of United Media Corporation. Without Harold, Kyra will lose everything. Never mind he doesn't make her tingle or set her libido on edge. She's always done the right thing and marriage will be no exception, but before she commits, she's going to have one wild week. She wants passion: &quot;weak-kneed, heart-pounding, scream-inducing passion.&quot; In one week, she'll create enough memories to last a lifetime. When she finds that passion with a mysterious hero who wears an eye patch, the question remains as to whether she'll risk living her fantasy with a complete stranger. And when she meets Tony, Kyra findsa herself torn between the fantasy and reality.<br />Anthony Michael Moretti made a career of being a hero until a burning building caused permanent scarring and a life-long back injury. During the night, with the protection of the dark and the name Michael, he feels almost whole again, prowling Intimate Fantasy Island. Opportunities like saving people from drowning, wearing his disguise, gives him the feeling of being needed. But during the daylight hours, as Tony, he still feels isolated by his scars. Until he meets Kyra.<br />Julie Kenner has yet to write a romance I haven't enjoyed...thoroughly. INTIMATE FANTASY proves my fandom once again. We've all fantasized about that sexy, dark, mysterious stranger who provides a provocative night of play. Kenner uses that classic fantasy for her own purpose, creating mind candy of the best flavor. But rather than just providing shallow characters, Kenner creates real people, with the weaknesses and the fears we all share. I find it refreshing that the hero has a bad back--that fact lends the story an air of credibility that makes it all the better. Very highly recommended!	2001-06-30
1938774:US	49693975	R111S391ZBATDH	0821768859	246349419	Champion Of The Heart (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Dark secrets revealed -- Very highly recommended	In fourteenth century England, Lord Mercer gives up everything, including his lands and title, to protect the identity of a murderer. His lands were forfeited to Lord Vaughn, whetting a desire for revenge in his son Fox, because Lord Vaughn is the father of his best friend Evan. Indeed, Fox believes his friends, both Evan and Jordan Ruvane, have turned their backs on him. <br />Ten years later, Fox becomes known as the Black Fox, in the tradition of Robin Hood, robbing the neighborhood to feed his people. His antics are specifically aimed at annoying his former friend Evan. Despite the fact that he's perceived to be an outlaw, a thief, and an outcast, Fox disguises himself and enters a tournament for Lady Jordan's hand. Fox's unexpected win results in his capture and imprisonment. When he escapes, he takes Jordan hostage, promising her release only in return for his family's title and lands. <br />Jordan's unexpected courage and compassion, especially for children, touches Fox's heart. While he wants to harden his heart against her, he can't the resist the temptation she presents. Unfortunately, Fox refuses to believe her protestations that she never turned her back on him. As they fall in love, however, they both must face the past and devastating truths of betrayal, greed, and cruelty. As dark secret comes to light, Fox must forget revenge if he wants Jordans.<br />CHAMPION OF THE HEART captures the reader's heart from the first page and never lets go. With rich characterization and motivation carefully revealed, the novel recreates an era of passion and cruelty, of vengeance and turmoil, and of secrets exposed. While the plot echoes traditional formulas, the fresh details and depth of characterization present a unique twist resulting in a memorable tale. A keeper, CHAMPION OF THE HEART is very highly recommended.	2001-06-30
1939122:US	49693975	R318R9O21269W2	0821768174	144190493	Highland Knight (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Witty and audacious -- Highly recommended	In 1458, tempers run high as honor is questioned and debts are paid. Sir Bearnard DeVaux takes cat-eyed Avery Murray and her young cousin Gilliananne during a raid on her family, turning them over to Sir Cameron MacAlpin in repayment of gambling debt. Quite a boon, considering the fact that Cameron holds Avery's brother responsible for his sister's rape. Her capture seems the perfect opportunity to make not just her brother pay for his sister's honor, but her whole family.<br />Cameron has remained celibate for three years following betrayal by women intent upon deception. He does not appreciate Avery's ability to stir desires that he's held tightly controlled. As the fiery and spirited Avery promises mayhem and murder for capture, the passion between she and Cameron builds with every page, escalating into a sensual tease interspersed with forays into danger. Having retreated from the game of love, Cameron is surprised to discover a woman who, rather than filled with faithlessness and betrayal, proves her loyalty when she saves the lives of his men. As his carefully guarded heart falls to the beautiful highland lass, spirits run high and passion reigns.<br />Rich in historical detail with headstrong characters, this fast-paced romance will delight fans of Hannah Howell's highland series. The light humor and verbal sparring between the hero and heroine keeps the reader amused as these delightful characters find their way to love. Indeed, the cat-eyed Avery with her audacity and family loyalty adds a sassy element to this highland tale, making HIGHLAND KNIGHT highly recommended.	2001-06-30
1939528:US	49693975	RAV53K3KCEASQ	0821771264	136920671	Enchanted Enemy	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Erotic and seductive -- Recommended	Rochelle Jackson embarks upon a treacherous path of manipulation when she vows revenge upon the Yankee who killed her brother and father. She and her twin were only sixteen when the Yankees invaded their small town, and Rochelle bore stunned witness to her family's dying. Carefully she weaves circumstance and opportunity into a plan to track Corporal Steven Browning through the next four years and the end of the war, vowing to break his heart rather than taking his life. Little did she expect to become tangled in her own web of passion.<br />Steven can't help the niggling feeling that he's met this devastatingly beautiful woman before, but her denials are enough to put him off track. The instant spark of attraction quickly becomes a consuming flame, and Steven can't walk away from this beauty. As she drops in and then out of his life, her manipulations entangle not just his passion but his heart. Soon he finds himself determined to marry her, despite the obstacles. He may find himself of a quite different mind, however, when he learns of her manipulations and deceptions, given that Steven highly regards such qualities as honesty. <br />Cassie Edwards brings great enthusiasm and vivaciousness to her newest novel, ENCHANTED ENEMY. Her account of riverboat travel complete with &quot;grasshoppering&quot; over sandbars and wildly sensual, stolen moments creates a dramatic background for revenge and love. Heated emotions walking the fine line between hate and love heighten the eroticism, making the concept of an enchanted enemy a marvelous play on words. While the plot line breaks no new ground with his adherence to formula, the characters are vividly realized, making ENCHANTED ENEMEY a recommended read.	2001-06-29
1941063:US	49693975	R3F9KQHY90D5P2	1551668157	775861136	About That Man	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Scandalous behavior! -- Highly recommended	Robert King Spencer runs the small town of Trinity Harbor, including the lives of his children. So when thirty-year-old Daisy finally stands up to not only her father, but also the town busybodies, she throws the entire town in an uproar. As protestors come out of the woodwork to complain of her behavior, Daisy's scandalous decisions only increase. First she takes in a ten-year-old boy pegged as a juvenile delinquent, then she also becomes involved with the boy's uncle. These decisions just don't fit the town's concept of their Daisy who's a Sunday school teacher, a high school teacher, and a community leader.<br />Tommy was trying to hot-wire her car when Daisy discovered him in the garage. His father died several years ago in a motorcycle accident, and his mother has recently died of pneumonia. While the local social worker busily locates his remaining family, Daisy takes the boy in, believing that she's destined to mother the boy. Indeed, Daisy believes that fate has intervened, since she can't have children of her own. Unfortunately, fate tends to play cruel tricks; in this case, producing an uncle that didn't even know that he has a nephew. Now she'll have to handle &quot;that man&quot; if she wants to make her dreams come true. But she'd best watch her heart as well.<br />Once again Sherryl Woods delivers a delightful read with ABOUT THAT MAN. Small towns, busybodies, and kids in trouble combine to create perfect reading at the poolside. While the plot follows traditional romantic formula, the depth of characterization gives ABOUT THAT MAN freshness that will leave readers eager for the next two installments of this trilogy. Highly recommended.	2001-06-28
1941205:US	49693975	R3HIXWSKUHK1W8	0821769065	926816874	Enchantment: Hope Chest (Ballad Romances)	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Magical and enchanting -- Very highly recommended	Gina Charles sold her dog training business, sublet her apartment, and cut all ties to her former life so she could marry the man of her dreams. Then, the day before the wedding, at the rehearsal with the entire wedding party as witness, she found her fiancé and her maid of honor making like minks in the back seat of the limo. Worse, bad things always come in threes. First the wedding fiasco. Then she finds a ghost in her room when she escapes to the solitude of a Hope Springs, Virginia at a luxurious Victorian hotel. But the third bad thing is a doozy when she goes back in time!<br />Drake Maton finds the afterlife tedious. Still lingering in Hope Springs, no one until Gina comes along can see him, so she must be the key to ending one hundred and sixteen years of limbo. Drake convinces Gina to accompany him to the sight of his death, where they discover a hope chest among the moldering remains of the Chesterfield hotel. Inside the chest are a broken neck chain, a pair of severed handcuffs, a sheriff's badge, and a dented brass nameplate. When Gina picks up an old dueling pistol, blackened by fire with the grip half melted, something about it intrigued her. Before she can put the pistol down, she felt light-headed. When she awakens, Gina finds herself surrounded by women in bustles in the year 1885. The fashions are abysmal, the demands upon women sexist, and opportunities for return to the year 2001 nonexistent. And now she's got to convince the very alive Drake that he's in danger.<br />ENCHANTMENT combines the best of time travel with superb romantic elements with enchanting results. Intrigue, danger, and a magic hope chest bring together two strong willed, volatile characters with delightful results. This whimsical tale is one of the most convincing time travel romances I've yet to encounter, coming very highly recommended.	2001-06-28
1943653:US	49693975	R1BAUYMQZCN2QA	0821768212	181278755	The Second Vow	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Powerful and beautiful -- highly recommended	In 1876, Irishman Braden Flynn escorts a band of Sioux, led by Sitting Bull, across Canada. Following the battle of Little Big Horn, tension runs high as the Sioux seek sanctuary in Canada and the United States demands their return and forces them onto reservations. The Irishman in Braden can't help empathizing with a people suffering from hunger, pursued, and driven by desperation.<br />Braden soon finds his vow of loyalty questioned when he falls in love with the beautiful Dancing Bird, the niece of Sitting Bull. She likewise feels a bond forged by starvation and the sorrow that accompanies it. Fiercely independent, protective of her family and loyal to her people, Dancing Bird's spirit and loyalty prove irresistible to Braden. <br />For political reasons, his request for permission to marry her is denied, and brings incredible pressure to bear as he makes a second vow -- one born of love --to his beloved Dancing Bird. Even as her people seek to recapture their glory days, even temporarily, dwindling food supplies will eventually drive them back across the boarder onto United States reservations. Despite the challenges, however, Braden's determined to honor his second vow.<br />Katheryn Fox captures the flavor, the texture and the tension of this historical era with flair. Sympathetic to the plight of the Indians, Fox nobly recreates the last peaceful days of the Sioux in this touching love story. As two cultures battle to fulfill destiny, this tender love story captures the best of both cultures with a gentle characterization and respect. Told from a Canadian perspective, Fox brings to life a viewpoint often neglected by American audiences. Indeed, Fox brings renewed life to the legendary Sitting Bull and his people through gift of fiction, powerfully representing their culture's demise with a sense of immediacy and sympathy. A beautiful love story, THE SECOND VOW comes highly recommended.	2001-06-26
1943870:US	49693975	RTUQGMW00UXTY	1551668068	807817400	Fox River	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Healing through the power of words	The daughter of the legendary Virginia hunt master and aristocrat, Julia Warwick inhabits a world of millionaires, Thoroughbreds, and fox hunts. As a teen, she fell in love with Christina Carver, the son of horse trainer who lived nearby at Claymore Park. Along with Peter Claymore and her best friend Felicity, the teens forged a deep friendship that was ripped apart when Felicity was found murdered and Christian was found holding the murder weapon. <br />Nine years later Julia falls from a horse and doctors diagnose her sudden blindness as psychological trauma. Now Julia must learn to see into the past clearly, if she wishes to regain her sight. As she opens her eyes to what lies hidden, Julia recognizes the falseness in her marriage, the deep abiding love of her family, and the truth of the past.<br />After a false conviction and nine years in jail, Christian returns to the only home he's ever known at Claymore Park. There he's made the master huntsman, and warned not to delve into the secrets of the past. But Christian needs answers to why he lost his freedom and the woman he loved. Like Julia, he must peal away the layers to reveal the truth of the past if he wants to be truly free.<br />Interwoven in the novel are excepts from Julia's mother's novel. As she reads aloud to her daughter, Maisy provides insight into their shared past. Rather than interrupting the narrative, this marvelous narration reveals the truth to Julia, working up the moment of trauma that scarred them both, allowing her daughter to find her own path into healing.<br />Author Emilie Richards brings a keen awareness of the human psyche to FOX RIVER, allowing its deep psychological probing to weave yet another rich element into her writing. Indeed, FOX RIVER also flawlessly weaves the complexities of characterizations into a plot rich with depth and nuance. With vividly realized backgrounds and multi layered plotting, the haunting pain of lives gone wrong and the power of healing come togetherin a beautiful, timeless tale of love recovered. Layers strip away, revealing characters seeking redemption and forgiveness, resulting in a remarkable and memorable novel that comes very highly recommended.	2001-06-26
1946536:US	49693975	R1OZQKE8WIXUNO	0821768204	546158510	Meant to Be (The Happily Ever After Company)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Sparkling dialogue and playful naughtiness	In 1866, marriage broker Russell Braddock's invitation to provide personal service to Lieutenant Zachary Dane has unexpected results. MEANT TO BE is the THIRD book of the Happily Ever After Co. miniseries.<br />Zach arrives at the Braddock home in Chicago prepared to ask for a bride who is &quot;young, sturdy, cheerful, healthy, a good cook, and suited to a simple, hardworking life and raising sons and daughters.&quot; However, when he sees Noelle Braddock standing on a table for a fitting in her wedding gown, one look confirms that he's found the perfect bride. Her long legs and silvery eyes will certainly compensate for her lack of cooking skills. Now he's got to convince Noelle she's marrying the wrong man, and they are meant to be. <br />Noelle refuses to entertain the brash young war hero clad in buckskins, despite her strong attraction. She's engaged to marry another, whose age, polish, and social position will guarantee a life of genteel fulfillment. With a professional match maker for a father, Noelle has always been determined to find her own husband, and believes she's found him; that is, until Zach turns her world upside down with his shameless seduction. But it will take more than sweet words to convince Noelle that she's engaged to the wrong man.<br />MEANT TO BE tells the story of a love and passion that begins with a glance, and ends in an inferno. With heated, stolen moments that inspire romantic desire, MEANT TO BE is a sexy, fun romp filled with sparkling dialogue and playful naughtiness. When confronted with her fiancé's true nature, Noelle's response and subsequent action keep the plot moving delightfully along. Indeed, Kate Donovan's characteristic style for blending the madcap and the sensual, the rogue and the innocent, makes MEANT TO BE highly recommended.	2001-06-24
1949100:US	49693975	R9QQ40KRF3YNS	0671034863	552051704	Portraits of Guilt	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Edgar Award Nominee -- Very highly recommended	In one of the most important true crime novels of our decade, Jeanne Boylan shares her insights into the most deadly crimes of our nation. Including the Poly Klaas kidnapping, the Unabomer, Susan's Smith's drowning of her own children, and the Oklahoma City bombing, Boylan takes the reader behind the scenes into the murky world of composite drawings. <br />Victimized on a rural road at the age of twenty-one, Boylan has made it her life's mission to assist witnesses in the recapturing of the image of the violator's face. Boylan works to combat the damage well-meaning artist and police agencies as they attempt to create composite drawings of suspects, usually from photos taken from mug shot books. Boylan employs an interview technique that keys into the subconscious' memory of the perpetrator, drawing the resulting descriptions freehand on a sketchpad that stays out of the victim's sight until the portrait is completed. By working from memory, rather than triggers, Boylan producing startling accurate portraits.<br />In addition to the stories of her professional life, Boylan reveals the maverick behind the artist. With a commitment to victims that outweighs all other considerations, Boylan honestly reveals the damage her career exacted on her marriage and personal life. Frequently, just as she and her husband headed out the door for much needed time together, a frantic call pulls her back to the world of killers and their victims. <br />Boylan has a gift for uncovering false testimony and mistakes in composite drawings. Challenged by a world where her remarkable beauty, sex and gifts work to her detriment when working with many local law enforcement agencies all the way up to the FBI, this forensic artist blazes her own path. A civilian who balks at red tape and follows a path uniquely her own -- a path that can reconstruct a witness' memory from years ago and result in an arrest. Concise, well written, and fascinating, PORTRAITS OF GUILT is a must read. Very highly recommended.	2001-06-22
1953367:US	49693975	R1RQ4J5ES28PUP	0821768190	449953581	Once An Angel: Jewels of the Sea (Ballad)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Spirited and exhilarating -- Very highly recommended	Eight years ago when the Fisk pirates were rescued from certain hanging, Grace vowed to leave pirating behind. She never wanted to walk the decks of the Sea Queen again; she did want a respectable husband who could provide handsomely for herself and the children they would one day have together.<br />When Grace won the attention of William Mason, she considered him the epitome of nobility. His blue blood and patrician nose were enough to assure that her dreams would come true. Never mind that they weren't in love; they were both bringing things of value to the marriage. She brought a hefty dowry and connections while he provided security and respectability. They like each other, and, with luck, in time their regard might grow into love. Leaving London behind, Grace boards the Maiden Fair bound for America and her fiancé, hoping to never again have to travel the oceans. But destiny has other ideas.<br />Pirates board the Maiden Fair, learning she was part of a plan to blockade the colonies. A terrible storm wrecks the ship, however, and her cargo, passengers and crew are put aboard the rechristened Sea Angel. Her captain, Jackson Brodie hasn't seen Grace in five years, but he's always carried deeply for the girl, even when she followed him around as a child like a guardian angel -- hence his nickname for her, Angel. He's not prepared for his attraction to her as a woman, nor does he wish to see her married, especially to a man with British sympathies. Further, he refuses to leave her in America during a time of war. Consequently, their clashes are inevitable. So is their inability to fight their mutual desire.<br />A rousing conclusion to the Jewels of the Sea trilogy, ONCE AN ANGEL boldly completes the quest for love and destiny. Grace Fisk, the youngest sister and the one who wishes to distance herself furthest from her pirating past, must learn to accept not only who she once was, but who her true love is. Further, she must learn where to place her loyalties, andto respect the need for force in its time and place. Together, Grace and Jackson prove themselves to be strong as their passion rages as intently as the war around them, powerful, and memorable characters. Spirited and exhilarating, ONCE AN ANGEL comes very highly recommended.	2001-06-19
1953947:US	49693975	RGBVOGSEUCWGL	0821770322	499160664	Irish Lace (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Emotionally intense -- Highly recommended	As children, their grandfathers betroth Meara Kathleen Dunne and Rian Quaid. As a teen, Meara vows she will not wed Rian, despite her family's wishes. When the Irish famine endangers her well being, however, she's sent to America to wed Rian in the company of her cousin, Kathleen Mary Maguire. Meara falls in love with Robert Widham on the voyage and convinces her cousin to meet Rian and relay the message that the marriage is off and give him the dowry anyway.<br />Afraid of being cast adrift without any family, Meara complies with her cousin's wishes and meets Rian at the dock. She doesn't immediately explain her identity, wishing a more private forum for such a revelation. Rian believes him to be his fiancée, as they've not seen one another in ten years, and takes her to his home Green Lawn. Determined to make herself useful, Kathleen hopes to persuade Rian to allow her a home there once she reveals the truth. The longer they are together, however, the more difficult circumstances and the heart make it to tell Rian the truth. As she marries this man she's fallen in love with, Kathleen fears that Rian will one day learn the truth of her identity. <br />IRISH LACE weaves a rich historical tale spanning the Ireland and America in a moving tale of mistaken identity. With richly developed characterization and a vividly realized plot, Candace McCarthy weaves a finely crafted historical novel with a hint of danger as attacks on the hero come from a mysterious source. The emotional intensity never lets up, making IRISH LACE highly recommended.	2001-06-18
1955700:US	49693975	R24OX1FT1KVBPJ	073886546X	943095002	As Big As the Sky	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Crooked cops, amnesia, ghost towns and murder	When Jo Brady, baby sister to the hero of PEPPERMINT CREEK INN, arrives at the private Florida hospital to rescue him, Daniel McCullen lies on his deathbed. Kidnapped and drugged by his employer, Daniel's slated for a midnight surgery--one to transfer his organs to another body. Never mind that Daniel's very healthy and quite unwilling.<br />As organ transplanting Old Man Martin follows them cross-country, chase them up the eastern seaboard into Canada, Jo and Daniel fight their growing attraction and pain from their past. Indeed, before AS BIG AS THE SKY concludes, many betrayals and twisted decisions will come to light, leaving these powerful characters questioning each other's motives. Little does Daniel suspect that he's met Jo before, and she's linked to the death of his wife. Nor does he suspect that Jo blames Daniel for the death of a child she loved. <br />Crooked cops, amnesia, ghost towns and murder combine in an explosive plot with AS BIG AS THE SKY, where trouble lives up to the book's title. This page turning sequel to PEPPERMINT CREEK INN provides invigorating entertainment for fans already addicted to Jan Springer's imagination. With an inventive voice unique among thriller authors, Springer grabs the reader by the throat and doesn't turn loose till the last page. Be careful about starting this one at bedtime, or you may be up reading all night -- I couldn't put it down. With its convoluted twists, fascinating characters and horrifying themes, this romantic suspense comes very highly recommended.	2001-06-17
1955920:US	49693975	R2786QPP8VFZRM	1551668254	257835524	Road Taken	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Poignant, moving, compelling -- Highly recommended	Born on January 1, 1900, Rose Smith becomes the first of four generations in Rona Jaffe's THE ROAD TAKEN. Over the course of a century, the growth of Rose's family parallels the growth of a nation. Living in New York City's Greenwich Village, Rose's family experiences the changes of the nation first hand. As old values transform with each world event, so does transformation follow with Rose and, subsequently, her daughters. International events like World War I and World War II, polio, the Cold War, and the AIDs epidemic affect the family in evocative and moving ways. <br />Highly conservative fans may not find the cross-dressing, gay brother Hugh amusing, but this reviewer finds him to be delightfully original and respectfully portrayed. As a secondary character, he not only moves the plot along nicely, but he also reveals the truth about families; that is, that there's always someone doesn't neatly fit a conventional role. Yet Hugh is also one of the most loving and understanding characters of the novel, thereby lending THE ROAD TAKEN balance and depth. <br />This incredible historical fiction parallels the history of the twentieth century with four generations of an unforgettable family. While the characters are not as richly developed as they could be, these characters vividly reflect the changes of a nation. THE ROAD TAKEN becomes the story of transformation and hope, despair and anguish, chronically the patterns of life and death that mark the passage of our lives. As fascinating and complex relationships unfold in the novel, the beauty, ugliness, compassion and judgement of a family becomes the microcosm of the nation, revealing the depths of our joy and of our pain. Further, as these fierce willed women rise above fate and circumstance, they demonstrate the ability to transform tragedy into triumph, and the ability to endure the most tumultuous circumstances with spirit and verve. Highly recommended.	2001-06-17
1956590:US	49693975	R1PCL798K4UECY	0595170471	568197359	Last Step	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fast paced and riviting -- Highly recommended	LAST STEP begins with a stark hook as a young woman lies dead -- an accident of destiny and cruelty. One of Jacksonville's unfortunate addicts, Karrie Moore made her living on the street and on her back to support her habit. Despite repeated attempts to go straight, the allure of the drug had sucked her in until it was too late. So when the police dismiss Karrie's death as yet another OD, only her mother tenaciously perseveres in uncovering the truth. Karrie might have been an addict, but she was also a victim of circumstance -- and murder.<br />Karrie's mother Vickie refuses to accept the police's dismissal of her daughter's life. Determined to discover the truth, she leaves behind an empty life and a dying relationship to move into the neighborhood where her daughter lived and died. Her growth and self-discovery becomes a reclamation of her own power. Danger stalks her steps, however, as those who live from the profits of drugs are closing in.<br />LAST STEP moves beyond the simple teachings of treatment programs to tell the story of a mother who, in the seeking of truth, finds her own path to independence and real love. Written with a deep understanding of the power of drugs over life, LAST STEP evokes the power of the twelve step programs to salvage lives savaged by drugs. Further, the whodunit plot provides a strong counterpoint to the mother's transformation, moving the novel along at a smart clip and providing a strong conclusion. Highly recommended.	2001-06-16
1956709:US	49693975	R32TV7SHI02J7B	1581246714	162862818	Mahogany Row	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fast paced and surprising -- Highly recommended	Attorney Mark McCoy reinvents himself to gain entrance into the world of high-powered attorneys and billable hours. Now his boss has been found, naked with his throat slashed, in his office, leaving Mark the prime suspect with murder. <br />The detective on the case gleefully informs him -- he's the last person to find out -- that his boss recommended against giving him a partnership, meaning he was about to be without a job. Unemployment after eight years of twelve billable hours a day seems an adequate motive for murder. And with no alibi, Mark is quickly running out of options.<br />Fleeing town and remaining a fugitive seems the only option for Mark, until he can prove his innocence. But with a tenacious detective and a powerful law firm on his trail, as well as killer, Mark best work fast or he may add to the growing body count.<br />Gritty, faced-paced, this first-person narrative keeps the reader on edge till the last surprising page. The dirty back streets of New York and a cast of seedy characters present motive and background guaranteed to hold the reader's interest. The author's first novel, MAHOGANY ROW's surprising twist at the end will leave reader's desiring more from this outstanding author. Highly recommended.	2001-06-16
1957520:US	49693975	R2UA5DUX56R6C8	0373259352	20750460	Insatiable (Heat)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A hunger that's Insatiable-- Very highly recommended	While she waits for her new position as bodyguard to begin, Samantha Deveaux fills time by gaining experience as a security guard. Her job at the Supermarket Expo lands her in front of the Pasta God, or at least an incredibly delicious pasta label with the gorgeous model. That simple pencil drawing holds her on the edge of sexual insanity, not to mention inspiring new creative uses for olive oil. Too bad Sam's set herself the challenge of celibacy in an effort to overcome her past. So when the real man behind the extraordinary image shows up, and the surge of electricity between them proves to be scorching.<br />Sexy, wealthy CEO Dominick LaRocca has it all, except the possibility of enjoying his blessings. Ever since his grandmother added his Mediterranean good looks to the company pasta label, women have wanted to taste the delectable man behind the bare-chested, Michaelangelo-like image. Nick can't help feeling disgusted with women's response following the release of the label. Desperate to put a stop to women's hysterical reactions, and tired of neglecting his personal life and personal needs, he hires Samantha as his bodyguard. Never mind he doesn't like her toughness, her take control attitude, or her way of speaking her mind. And never mind her glossy lips and sassy walk. <br />Making the man a sex symbol and the woman the protector creates a wonderful twist in the plot of INSATIABLE. Samantha's desire to remain celibate and heal the wounds of the past, when she substituted sex for love, also presents a marvelous challenge as she must grow to accept her sexuality and desire inside a loving relationship. Moreover, it's great fun to watch an old fashioned boy with out dated ideas about obedient women grow into an appreciation of smart and sassy. Indeed, Julie Elizabeth Leto once again demonstrates her understanding of the weakness, passions, and strengths of love, resulting in a hunger that's INSATIABLE.	2001-06-15
1957580:US	49693975	R71V44RCYQ736	1561706213	290791524	Adventures of a Psychic: A Fascinating and Inspiring True-Life Story of One of America's Most Successful Clairvoyants	Books	5	20	25	N	N	Impressive, enligtening and powerful	If you've ever wondered what it's like to be precognitive, clairvoyant, clairaudiant, or to experience other psychic abilities, Sylvia Browne's ADVENTURE OF A PSYCHIC is a must read. For those who don't believe in psychic phenomena, this book will make the reader a believer. Written in clear concise tones, with undercurrents of both religious philosophy and pragmatism, Browne's ADVENTURE OF A PSYCHIC tells not only the story of Browne's life, but also gives a basic understanding of our purpose on this planet. <br />The voice of Francine, Browne's spirit guide, imparts a basic understanding of the purpose of this &quot;learner's planet&quot; and the dimensions beyond. Despite the ability to help others with her gifts, Browne also makes it clear that her gifts don't guide her own actions; her mistakes create her life lessons just like everyone else. In addition, Browne shares her experience in helping with hauntings, missing persons cases and predictions of various tragedies or world events. Throughout the book, Browne emphasizes that all people have psychic abilities, and offers insight to opening to those innate abilities.<br />Having listened to the abridged, taped version of Sylvia Browne's ADVENTURE OF A PSYCHIC, I assumed I was familiar enough with her story that the book would be a quick skim. While the tape includes inflections and details that might not be in the book that really give the listener a sense of Sylvia Browne the person, the book gives a deeper understanding of her psychic experiences and the lessons she wishes to share. While the  text is less personal, less a &quot;conversation&quot;, it does contain more detail, to the point that at times the book becomes a teacher. Indeed, both the book and tape must be experienced to fully appreciate all the lessons Browne has to share, as a person and as a professional psychic. Consequently, ADVENTURES OF A PSYCHIC both the book and on tape, as separate experiences, come very highly recommended. <br />Bright Blessings, Weaver	2001-06-15
1958685:US	49693975	R2OZF1Q5QJVHTP	0373271557	501231923	Cops And ... Lovers?	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A passionate police drama -- Highly recommended	Erin McNeal loved the rush of adrenaline until the night she broke the cop's cardinal rule -- she froze during a crucial moment, putting her partner at risk. Nine years of service, decorations, and fast track promotions ended in that deadly warehouse and resulted in her resignation. <br />Six months later, Erin prepares to leave exchange the rush of working for Chicago's Police Force for that of Logan Falls. For a cop with few prospects and a bum shoulder, she knows that she has to make a good impression or she might have to make a career change; to security, perhaps. <br />Chief of Police Nick Ryan expects hard eyes that have seen too much on Chicago's streets, not the attractive, tenacious woman who walks into his office two hours early for her interview. In spite of himself, Nick finds himself drawn to this wounded officer, and despite his doubts, hires Erin. But he quickly realizes that he doesn't need a cop that takes reckless risks because she something to prove. Nick also quickly realizes that someone's trying to kill her.<br />COPS AND ... LOVERS grips the reader from the first page and never turns loose. As the ancient battle of the sexes comes alive in this police drama, the danger and the passion becomes heated and intense. With remarkable understanding and clarity of the dangers faced by cops, author Linda Castillo weaves a tale of intrigue, passion, and danger that comes highly recommended.	2001-06-14
1959308:US	49693975	R2ZOETYDR8F1DM	0373271557	501231923	Cops And ... Lovers?	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A passionate police drama -- Highly recommended	Erin McNeal loved the rush of adrenaline until the night she broke the cop's cardinal rule -- she froze during a crucial moment, putting her partner at risk. Nine years of service, decorations, and fast track promotions ended in that deadly warehouse and resulted in her resignation. <br />Six months later, Erin prepares to leave exchange the rush of working for Chicago's Police Force for that of Logan Falls. For a cop with few prospects and a bum shoulder, she knows that she has to make a good impression or she might have to make a career change; to security, perhaps. <br />Chief of Police Nick Ryan expects hard eyes that have seen too much on Chicago's streets, not the attractive, tenacious woman who walks into his office two hours early for her interview. In spite of himself, Nick finds himself drawn to this wounded officer, and despite his doubts, hires Erin. But he quickly realizes that he doesn't need a cop that takes reckless risks because she something to prove. Nick also quickly realizes that someone's trying to kill her.<br />COPS AND ... LOVERS grips the reader from the first page and never turns loose. As the ancient battle of the sexes comes alive in this police drama, the danger and the passion becomes heated and intense. With remarkable understanding and clarity of the dangers faced by cops, author Linda Castillo weaves a tale of intrigue, passion, and danger that comes highly recommended.	2001-06-14
1960311:US	49693975	RY0EMERHV9ELB	0373271549	185625439	Moonglow, Texas	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Absolutely delightful! Highly recommended	A chance viewing of a pale, white-haired terrorist and she finds herself whisked away to Moonglow, Texas complete with the new identity of Molly Hansen. She leaves behind her job, her fiancé, and her identity to protect her life -- a life she's come to intensely dislike until Dan Shackelford shows up to repair her government provided house. But Molly's no dummy, and it doesn't take long to figure out that Dan's no repairman even if he is a fabulous kisser. And his presence makes Moonglow and her new identity a pleasure. As women line up to welcome Dan back to Moonglow, however, Molly takes great pleasure in keeping him to herself and finds her new identity isn't so bad as long as Dan hangs around. <br />With his disreputable appearance, Dan Shackelford doesn't look like a deputy U.S. marshal. Bitter, dissolution, and drinking too much, Dan's on extended medical leave after he failed to protect his partner from a hitman. But when someone breaches the security of the witness protection program's database, Dan finds himself called back into service and returning to his hometown to protect Molly, even if word has it that all the members of the terrorist group that destroyed her life are now dead. As threatening phone calls begin to belie the assurance of no danger, however, Dan finds his skills not just as handyman, which are seriously lacking, but his reputation as well as the sheriff still treats him like poor white trash and women wish to rekindle the past. <br />Author Mary McBride creates a first rate romance with characters the reader can't help but care about in MOONGLOW, TEXAS. Despite the serious setting of the witness protection program, this lighthearted romance will but the glow on a sultry summer night. As Dan heals the scars of the past, and Molly faces the challenges of her present, watching them create a future together is pure pleasure. Amusing, entertaining, and heated, MOONGLOW, TEXAS comes highly recommended.	2001-06-13
1961328:US	49693975	R32DEL2OW89H9L	0967635411	523771289	A Gypsy Lady To Die For	Books	5	0	0	N	N	First rate characterization -- Highly recommended	Charley Grant has the unique distinction of being an ex-con who specializes in corporate research and investigations. His shortage of clients, however, has resulted in a desperate need for work. Then a senior executive for a high-tech company offers Charley the opportunity to find whoever is committing corporate espionage, but he wants the job done without alerting the press. <br />Charley's shady background includes alcoholism, insider trading, and violence. With a flair for the unexpected, this unlicensed detective battles the underworld, alcohol and trouble with women. Charley takes on hardcore high society dirty dealers, including a dirty cop named Arabello specializes in a sharp blade. As he works the case, Charley finds himself on a search for personal redemption. Then he meets Irina Kirsten, the Gypsy lady to die for. But Charley isn't ready to die.<br />Stylistically, Zane Smith adheres to the traditional potboilers, but with a modern flair. His use of dialogue and irreverent humor makes the text sparkle. Further, with adventuresome characterization and a deep understanding of the human psyche, Smith creates memorable characters with depth. Combining that first rate characterization with a plot complete with laughs, twists, and danger, GYPSY LADY TO DIE FOR will satisfy the most hard-core mystery fan.	2001-06-13
1961682:US	49693975	R3E1XUBZ9UTJM7	0373271530	795692493	Daddy With A Badge (Maternity Row)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Sensuous and dangerous -- Very highly recommended	Once she'd been willing to throw away her family and her heritage for Rafe. Now Daniela Fabrizio would prefer that he would just ask his questions and disappear again. Her life is set on implode, and she only wants to put it back on an even kilter. Daniela misses the magic years, as she calls them, when she had a lovely house full of antiques, a nest egg to pay for college for her twelve-year-old daughter Lyssa, and a reliable, luxury car.<br />Unfortunately, a whirlwind courtship with Jonathan Sommerset resulted in his stealing every cent of her liquid assets, charging her cards up to the max, selling her beautiful home on the bluffs, and destroying her credit rating. So when Rafe shows up on her doorstep, she's stunned to learn the reasons for his departure twenty years ago, and equally shocked to learn the husband she knew as Jonathan Summerset is actually Jacob Fulsom, psychopath, bigamist, con artist and murderer.<br />Senior agent of the Special Investigation Branch of the Secret Service Rafael Cardoza was shot down while guarding a witness at a government safe house. While the witness was murdered, Rafe survives to protect the next victim of the con artist turned murder, Daniela Fabrizio. Twenty years ago he'd been wildly in love with her, until he was driven from his home and joined the military. Now the mischievous hoyden had developed into a mature, sensuous woman that he must protect her from the filth Daniela nicknames the &quot;serial weasel.&quot; But there's no way he can protect his heart from this single-mom with a baby on the way. Suddenly being a daddy with a bade never looked so good, at least to him.<br />Separated for twenty years, the love scenes that finally join this hero and heroine are powerful, sexy and playful. Paula Detmer Riggs daringly explores passion between these strong characters as the very pregnant Daniela makes love with Rafe in moments both tender and heated. Because these love scenes bring maturity and strong sensuality intoplay, the scenes become startlingly memorable and touching. In addition, while there are moments in the novel when I want to crawl into the pages to shake the twelve-year-old Lyssa, or possibly spank her, I find her character growth enchanting and beautiful, thereby lending DADDY WITH A BADGE and an added depth. Very highly recommended.	2001-06-12
1961783:US	49693975	R4ED8ZAUHL3A5	0967792924	935338647	Hamlet and the Magnificent Sandcastle	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Amusing and memorable! Very highly recommended	When the impetuous Hamlet builds a marvelous sandcastle upon the beach, complete with dungeons and secret tunnels, he neglects to pay attention to the time or weather. His cautious friend Quince doses on the beach, only waking when a wave splashes him. As a day of fun turns into a day of danger, Quince rushes to the castle before it crumbles to find his friend. Only cooperation and inventiveness will save these friends from certain disaster.<br />HAMLET AND THE MAGNIFICENT SANDCASTLE is one of those amusing, memorable tales that children will plead for again and again. Amid the humor of building sandcastles upon the beach, however, lies a message of friendship and cooperation, presented subtly enough within the tale to avoid becoming didactic or boring. With marvelous illustrations and an adorable porcupine, HAMLET AND THE MAGNIFICENT SANDCASTLE comes very highly recommended.	2001-06-12
1961927:US	49693975	R3AC11TPTN21N8	0373244037	185625857	Her Sister'S Secret Son	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Mesmerizing -- Recommended	Nine years ago Laurel Hale set Jared Carlisle's heart on fire. The memorable night they spent together, before and after her laughing rejection to seeing him again, burned itself into his heart forever. So when he sees the beautiful, redheaded woman again in a courtroom, he instantly recognizes her. That is, until Rachel introduces herself as Laurel's twin. Laurel died four years ago.<br />Rachel has always lived in her sister's shadow, wishing someone would look at her with the heat they address to her flamboyant twin. Even after her twin's accidental death, Rachel continues her shadowy existence by raising her sister's child -- a child dropped on her since his birth: &quot;Dylan's childish memories of his mother were vague, colored by her long, frequent absences.&quot; All Rachel wants for her son and herself is a place to put down roots, something even more unlikely with Dylan's biological father in the picture. Rachel loves Dylan as if is her biological son, and her fierce protectiveness of their relationship only increases when she realizes the father isn't who she expected.<br />All Jared wants to know and love his son, to make up for the eight years he missed. He also wants Rachel, but keeps that desire repressed for fear she'll run away. The more he's around Rachel, the more he appreciates the difference in the twins. Laurel had been temperamental and self-centered. Rachel is the calm after the storm. But with custody issues between them, and then a marriage based on the child, its almost impossible to find their ways past the pain to love.<br />Lisette Belisle has a poet's mastery of words, liberally sprinkling such evocative descriptions through the novel. A favorite, on the first page, reads: &quot;The fans kept the air moving, stirring up dust, cobwebs and old memories -- memories Jared Carlisle preferred buried.&quot; This moment, during a court scene, captures the very essence of the novel and the hero. Indeed, Belisle's word play becomes mesmerizing,spinning a web of well-crafted words that transport the reader into the heart of Maine and the memory of loss.<br />Unfortunately, the plot itself could have used some tweaking. The center of the novel, the fulcrum on which major decisions, frustrations and outrage rests, falls flat. Apple pie becomes a surprising pivot point for disaster and potentially powerful image for such a disastrous outcome, but rather than the proper explosion, we only get a whimper and a heroine who chooses to run rather than fight it out. For a red head that's trying to step out of her sister's shadow, this would have been the perfect point for Rachel to throw a colossal fit. Sadly, this is the deciding point between good and great, preventing HER SISTER'S SECRET SON from achieving its full potential. Nonetheless, it is still a well-developed, emotionally intense novel that beautifully explores emotion and motive, earning it a distinction of recommended.	2001-06-12
1961945:US	49693975	RFQAKRCX59VKJ	0967625688	743871381	Tell It to the Future : Have I Got A Story For You...about the Twentieth Century	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A must read for history lovers -- Very highly recommended	A rich tapestry of voices weave cultures, ages, backgrounds, hopes and dreams in a seamless presentation in TELL IT TO THE FUTURE. Indeed, dry historical data comes to life in pencil drawings and multihued storytelling. As the excitement of American's open door policy gives way to the disillusion of war, the depression, and recovery, only repeat itself, the vibrancy of the American spirit gives voice to the pain and triumphs of each decade. Each chapter lists major events that shaped that decade, an author's story that relates something relevant to the tone of the times, and interesting facts of historical interest.<br />Reminiscent of tradition of storytelling to preserve history, TELL IT TO THE FUTURE relates history through stories told by all generations, weaving a complex and multi-layered history shared by all. Bridging past and future, these voices share their experiences of coming to America and building this country to make it strong despite the challenges of the decades. The stories, poems, artwork, and letters lend a texture and depth that makes TELL IT TO THE FUTURE a must read. Very highly recommended.	2001-06-12
1962602:US	49693975	R2O6N12E974YY8	0967625688	743871381	Tell It to the Future : Have I Got A Story For You...about the Twentieth Century	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A must read for history lovers -- Very highly recommended	A rich tapestry of voices weave cultures, ages, backgrounds, hopes and dreams in a seamless presentation in TELL IT TO THE FUTURE. Indeed, dry historical data comes to life in pencil drawings and multihued storytelling. As the excitement of American's open door policy gives way to the disillusion of war, the depression, and recovery, only repeat itself, the vibrancy of the American spirit gives voice to the pain and triumphs of each decade. Each chapter lists major events that shaped that decade, an author's story that relates something relevant to the tone of the times, and interesting facts of historical interest.<br />Reminiscent of tradition of storytelling to preserve history, TELL IT TO THE FUTURE relates history through stories told by all generations, weaving a complex and multi-layered history shared by all. Bridging past and future, these voices share their experiences of coming to America and building this country to make it strong despite the challenges of the decades. The stories, poems, artwork, and letters lend a texture and depth that makes TELL IT TO THE FUTURE a must read. Very highly recommended.	2001-06-12
1962632:US	49693975	RV2YYVF4VJHR4	0373709919	273493274	Straight from the Heart: Twins (Harlequin Superromance No. 991)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Conflicts of interest -- highly recommended	A vicious attack when she was a teenager has left an indelible mark upon Blair Logan, even effecting her career choice as a D.A. in Houston. Although her father's firm specializes in defense law, Blair doesn't like defense attorneys. She specifically doesn't like defense attorney Lucas Culvar because his charisma and sexy good looks seem to sway women jurors, despite what Blair perceives to be his defendants' obvious guilt.<br />Blair's brother Blake had always been the wild twin while Blair was the quiet, studious one. Although their father Sam always wanted Blake to practice law in his firm, Blake lives in London where he works as a journalist and volunteers time to troubled teens. While home in Texas for a visit, however, new evidence surfaces in an old crime, and Blake is accused of murder. Blair immediately resigns her job as a prosecutor to avoid any conflicts on interest, then convinces Lucas to represent Blake. Now she finds herself attracted to the very species of attorney she's sworn to avoid, and working very closely with him to prove her brother's innocence. The concept of a conflict in interest seems to have taken a whole new implication with her heart involved.<br />Author Linda Warren masterfully controls the tone of STRAIGHT FROM THE HEART, as the initially brittle tone reflects the brittle characterization of the heroine. As her exterior cracks to reveal the woman within, so does the tone become warm and entrancing -- no vulnerable heroines in need of rescue here, as Blair proves herself to be at once capable, strong and willing to seek help when necessary. Unfortunately, the turn around in the heroine's attitude toward the hero happens so quickly that the genuineness of her feelings seems a bit thin, and comes off as self-serving.<br />Nevertheless, Blair's love for her twin certainly provides adequate motivation for her change of opinion regarding Lucas. Further, the wildly entangled plot line with threads to the past and red herrings in the present keeps the reader engaged as the novel moves at a decided clip. Indeed, the multifaceted characterizations and powerful conflict make STRAIGHT FROM THE HEART an excellent read, coming highly recommended.	2001-06-12
1962799:US	49693975	R13K0IP4UVEJFV	0821768794	847793249	Beauty and the Brain (The Dream Maker)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Dreams do come true -- Very highly recommended	The silent motion picture industry once again provides the fascinating backdrop for Alice Duncan's BEAUTY AND THE BRAIN. For readers who enjoyed COWBOY FOR HIRE, the second novel of The Dream Maker series proves to be as equally entertaining as the first.<br />Peerless Studios begins filming I in the San Bernadino Mountains in 1907. Martin Tafft, the man in charge of the film's production, assembles a fascinating crew for the filming. As his responsibilities to Peerless escalate, Martin hires Colin Phillips as his assistant for the summer.<br />Unfortunately, Colin has spent most of his life with his head inside various schools and universities. As much as he understands facts, Colin is not equiped for emotions. A child protege and now an assistant professor, the summer job with Peerless Studios allows him to learn more than this new and booming industry. Fascinated by motion pictures, he's not prepared for the necessity of sacrificing accuracy for completing production.<br />Brenda Fitzpatrick abandons Broadway to accept the lead female part in Indian Love Song. Although she loved the stage, her financial responsibility to her family dictates that she accept the high paying salary associated with motion pictures. Brenda makes her living with her looks, masking her intelligence in an eye-pleasing package that belies her intelligence. She's never minded men assuming that she has no brains, at least, until she meets Colin. Although she's not aware that her accent labels her an unlettered booby in Colin's eyes, she does quickly realize that he does not believe in the sincerity of her questions. Indeed, Colin scoffs at her dream of being a librarian rather than an actress, and does not appreciate the sincerity of her desire to retire with a room full of books and the leisure to enjoy them.<br />BEAUTY AND THE BRAIN is a refreshing, light-hearted novel that underscores the foolish assumptions lovers make. The classic case of not understanding the opposite sex, or even one's self, makes for a lovely conundrum. Further, the film industry background, sandlot baseball, and gently mentioned social commentary result in a vividly realized, fabulously entertaining read. BEAUTY AND THE BRAIN comes very highly recommended.	2001-06-12
1963910:US	49693975	R3RKDUTIFTWAVP	0373709935	501771106	His Child or Hers?	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Heart rendering -- Very highly recommended	Dr. Natalie Lawson became a physician in Guatemala because she loves the place and the people. There she met her husband Carlos, and there they planned to raise their son Benjamin. When an earthquake kills Carlos and leaves Natalie hospitalized for months, infant Benjamin is taken to an orphanage to be cared for until Natalie can leave the hospital. An unfortunate mistake, however, allows her child to be adopted to NYPD detective Hand Ballantyne, and it takes three years and almost of her funds for a PI to find the child in America. <br />Nick and his wife adopted the infant in an effort to save their marriage. A few months later his wife decided that the child didn't make her happy and left baby Robbie in her husband's custody. Hank adores his adoptive son, thriving on bedtime stories and monsters, and thrilling in watching his child grow. So when he opens the door to find the birth mother standing on his front steps, Hank can't help feeling devastated. If the case goes to court, his lawyer cautions that there's a possibility of loosing custody. <br />From the first moment he meets Natalie, Hank finds himself fighting his attraction and finds that caring for her tempers his zeal for fighting for Robbie at any cost. Instead, knowing Natalie as a person as well as a birth mother force him to accept her pain and disappointment as well as his own. Likewise, Natalie quickly learns compromise, calling her son by his adoptive name for example, as she spends time with a man who loves her child as much as she does.<br />With no legal precedent to protect either of their interests, Hank and Natalie must work together to find the answers to their conundrum, and to face the fear of becoming the unneeded parent. Indeed, establishing a mutually acceptable compromise seems virtually unimaginable. Even as their mutual attraction brings them together, the thousands of miles and the past fears between them make the possibility of a future quite unlikely.<br />HIS CHILD OR HERS by Dawn Stewardson boldly tackles the emotional quagmire that results when a birth mother shows up to reclaim her child. While the genre dictates a happily-ever-after ending, the emotional intensity and philosophical implications raised will touch the reader's heart. Further, HIS CHILD OR HERS is not about a marriage of convenience, as would be an easy plot device to solve these characters' dilemmas. Instead, HIS CHILD OR HERS is about discovering the true of nature of love; that is, putting the needs of a child and each other ahead of one's own needs and desires. This tender exploration of love will bring tears to the eyes, and remain on the reader's keeper shelf forever. Very highly recommended.	2001-06-11
1968305:US	49693975	R1UWTJH5TDPLB3	0373709900	552072863	A Man of His Word (Harlequin SuperRomance, No. 990)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	An intricate tangle of murder, lies and love	Fans of the Return To East Texas series will enjoy this final segment, A MAN OF HIS WORD by Eva Gaddy. When Will McClain, the third foster child of Frannie Granger, returns to Uncertain, Texas, loose ends are tied up and the mystery of Frannie's death, as well as Emmy Monday's birth, are finally resolved.<br />Remembered more as the prodigal son than an admirable character, Texas Ranger Will McClain arranges to investigate his foster mother's murder twenty years after the fact when an archeologist unearths Frannie's bones. His foster brother stands accused of the murder and its up to Will to prove Jed's innocence, despite the circumstantial evidence. Questions of loyalty to family and to one's sworn career make Will's job even more challenging. And there's also the matter of the gorgeous red head with the temper to match that wants back on the archeological site. <br />Tessa curses the day she uncovered the old bones on her Caddo Indian burial mound dig. The project that was supposed to allow her to complete her degree and insure her career comes to a screeching halt while local law enforcement crawls over the site and refused to allow her to continue her work. As time slips away, so do her grant and her future. Then, on the day the sheriff finally agrees to let her back on site, the Texas Ranger had to arrive and put her on hold again.<br />However, Tessa gets her wish, in a round about way, when Will visits the site and realizes the devastation the sheriff's department has wrought. The site looks like a nuclear explosion rather than the scene of a crime, and valuable evidence could have been destroyed. Consequently, Will convinces Tessa to work for him, excavating the crime scene while her students return to the Indian Mounds. As their feelings draw them closer together, however, career and dreams prove to be a conflict of interest.<br />This intricate tangle of murder, lies and love creates a satisfying conclusion to the Return To East Texas series. As family ties and loyalties are questioned, Gaddy gracefully questions the meaning of family and arrives at rather unconventional conclusion, proving the bond of love strong than blood. The growth of the heroine as she learns to define her own values, based on her own desires rather than her family's values, also provides a sound lesson. And I must admit a soft spot for a hero not afraid to admit his emotions long before the heroine resolves her own feelings. A MAN OF HIS WORD is highly recommended.	2001-06-07
1968777:US	49693975	R26JHENCCYM35Y	0373709927	590359603	Trading Places	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great fun! Very highly recommended	&quot;People see what they expect to see, not what's actually there.&quot;<br />TRADING PLACES details an everyday woman who gains an opportunity to trade places with her celebrity boss. Alice Wynn prefers cotton rather than spandex, au natural to bleached and made up. Then one day notorious boss lady Sharlayne Kenyon convinces Alice to trade places to throw the press of her track while she retreats to an island paradise to pen her autobiography. A little bleach, a haircut, a change in wardrobe and viola -- Alice becomes Sharlayne. But little does Alice suspect how quickly a dream come true can turn dangerous.<br />Alice retreats to lush Beverly Hills with security guard Jed Kelby and Sharlayne's assistant, the dragon lady Tabitha Thomas. She agrees its worth a little stress and strain to insure a debt-free future since she's still paying her grandmother's hospital bills. A registered nurse, she'd spent nearly ten years caring for her grandmother before going to work for Sharlayne. But soon Alice wishes she could break out of her silken prison. Despite Jed's prostration that he must follow his boss' dictate that &quot;Thou shalt not get involved with thy client.&quot;<br />As he tries to juggle the dictates of his boss and his conscious, Jed knows he's in trouble. He resents the press labeling him Sharlayne's newest boy toy. Further, the woman he believes to be Sharlayne is the sexist, hardest to resist woman he's ever met. One moment she acts like a playgirl and lives up to her reputation as an adventuress; the next moment she is as shy and naive as a teenager. The more Jed tries to remain cool and professional, the more she kicks up her campaign to drive him wild.<br />For this reviewer, TRADING PLACES by Ruth Jean Dale was one of those rare novels that I couldn't put down. Dale's quick paced, neatly constructed plot combined with extraordinary characters held me enthralled. Indeed this unforgettable combination of tension and sizzle goes on my keeper shelf. Veryhighly recommended.	2001-06-07
1969093:US	49693975	R3R8LO63TFLCEB	0373271565	444671180	Dangerous Attraction	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A roller coaster thrill ride of danger and desire	Like the dog she rescued from an animal shelter, Marie Claire Saint-Ange is wounded and fighting for her life. Suffering the grief of being widowed twice, and then surviving the death of her fiancé, Marie stands accused of murder. Nicknamed the Widow Spider, Marie hires Michael Quinn to prove her innocence. Little does she suspect he's actually a DEA investigator working undercover and is assigned to prove her guilty of not just drug running, but murder.<br />Called in from his camping retreat before the paperwork could be completed for his separation from the DEA, Michael only plans to investigate this case not offer protection for Marie. He'd been unsuccessful at preventing disaster before, and lacks the confidence to risk failure again. But as the animosity of the town stamps its impression, Michael soon comes to understand the danger Marie faces. Then an anonymous call come, warning that he's next. Suddenly Michael finds himself thrust into a dangerous attraction beyond his control, an attraction that could cost them both their lives.<br />Author Susan Vaughan masterfully creates a fast paced plot in DANGEROUS ATTRACTION that deftly weaves rich characterization with riveting suspense. With remarkable skill, Vaughan keeps the reader guessing as twists and turns lend this romance a roller coaster thrill ride of danger and desire. Tension, both of the physical and of the psychological varieties, never relents, thereby drawing the reader into a world of murder, betrayal and intrigue, as questions of loyalty and truth underscore the vicious circle of peril. Highly recommended.	2001-06-07
1969905:US	49693975	R3RFCQZ0XK4N7Y	0373244002	556459303	Shelter In A Soldier's Arms (That Special Woman!) (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A definate keeper! Very highly recommended	When life conspires to present Ashley Churchill more challenges than she can handle, help comes from a surprising corner. Fear of loosing her job, extreme illness and her apartment building's flooding leaves this young mother without the resources or the means to provide for herself and her child. So when security specialist Jeff Ritter steps in with assistance, Ashley finds herself accepting his aid despite her protestations. Although she accepts the position as Jeff's housekeeper, Ashley's determined to not become involved with this man, no matter how wildly attractive he is.<br />Considering himself more machine than human, Jeff never intended to give his heart to anyone. But Ashely's indomitable spirit and her daughter's remarkable trust touch a heart he's long since forgotten. As zoo outings and surprise dinners reach beyond the hardened exterior of the soldier into the interior heart of the man, Jeff rediscovers his connection to others and the joys of living. As his feelings awaken and passion builds, Jeff fears for the young mother and child he's brought into his life, at once determined to drive them away for their own protection and equally determined to keep them close and safe.<br />An unusually powerful, emotionally demanding read, Susan Mallery's SHELTER IN A SOLDIER'S ARMS challenges issues of self-image and self-identity. As the characters overcome the secrets of the past, their characters grow to embrace their love for one another. Such tremendous growth allows for a richness and depth of characterization that marks the novel as extraordinary. Further, Mallery succeeds at one of the most difficult elements of writing; that is, fully integrating a young child into the flow the narrative, making Maggie a vital and central figure who not only moves the plot along but also provides her own sparkle and depth. <br />In addition, the powerful heroine faces the challenges of single parenting and working as a janitor to earn her way through college in exactly the believable manner I have come to expect in Mallery's work. Having faced similar life circumstances, I'm impressed with Ashley's character and the realistic nature in which her challenges are portrayed. Indeed, SHELTER IN A SOLDER'S ARMS doesn't back away from the emotional challenges of rising above a soldier's past, a mother's pain, or a young child's desires, leaving the reader with a remarkably complex, emotionally satisfying read by a master. Very highly recommended.	2001-06-06
1973632:US	49693975	REQZ6TBXREI6Y	0373244029	774637747	Invitation To A Wedding	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An adventure to remember -- Very highly recommended	When Ben Standing Bear comes to her prenuptial party in response to an invitation, Josie Belle Pickens takes one look and knows she's marrying the wrong man. So when her future husband and her future mother-in-law show their prejudice against the Native American, Josie invites him to dance -- not just any dance, mind you, but the tango, the only legal way to make love in public! Considering the fact that Josie's dancing with her friend rather than her fiancée, its no wonder the whole town is atwitter with rumor. Of course Josie ends the evening by returning her engagement ring to her fiancé, but she doesn't count on the explosion waiting at home, or her own response.<br />Meddlesome Aunt Tess moved in with Josie's mother when her father passed away. Her mother's not much for standing up for herself or for her daughter, and when Aunt Tess' prodding proves to be beyond her endurance, Josie promises there will still be a wedding on Saturday. But she's not repairing her broken engagement. Rather, she's going to provide a surprise groom! Josie specializes in rushing in where angels fear to tread, and her enthusiasms and vivaciousness sweep Ben Standing Bear right along with her. On Saturday they will walk down the aisle, without preparing anyone in town for the switch of grooms. But maybe Ben likes the idea of marrying Josie, and maybe hearts have better sense than logic anyway.<br />As Ben and Josie discover their love for one another, and learn to risk sharing those feelings, the reader is swept away on a tide of passion and romance. Combined with a healthy dose of giggles, INVITATION TO A WEDDING will prove to be the most delightful and memorable invitation to fun that the reader can possibly experience. Once again Peggy Webb's powerful storytelling voice makes the improbably not only believable, but an adventure to remember. Very highly recommended.	2001-06-04
1973681:US	49693975	R1712XWDAPFZH6	0373244010	836173108	The M.D. Meets His Match (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Freak snowstorms and sizzling passion	Only concern for her grandmother's health could bring photojournalist April Yearling back to Hades, Alaska. When she's turned eighteen, she couldn't leave fast enough, pursuing a fast-paced career that took her across the world. But it wasn't intensive enough to heal the wounds of the past, and the pain associated with the town she left behind. As quickly as her grandmother heals, April plans to flee once again to the lower forty-eight. <br />Surgeon James Quintano intends to spend just two weeks in Hades visiting his sister, despite her pleas that the town needs him. Jimmy likes his relationships superficial, never planning beyond the next weekend. So when April unexpectedly bombards his senses with electricity, her strong independence draws him quickly. Now he has to find a way to convince this fierce woman to yield to their mutual desire. <br />A small town and a sexy grandmother combine in Marie Ferrarella's THE M.D. MEETS HIS MATCH to provide a fast paced ticket to the intimidating, and isolated nether regions of Alaska. Freak snowstorms and sizzling passion lend a tantalizing background for this spunky romance. Further, sharp dialogue and hidden fears create convincing characters with hidden depths and vulnerabilities. Highly recommended.	2001-06-04
1978958:US	49693975	R1WSWX4IFRONW9	0821768794	847793249	Beauty and the Brain (The Dream Maker)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Dreams do come true -- Very highly recommended	The silent motion picture industry once again provides the fascinating backdrop for Alice Duncan's BEAUTY AND THE BRAIN. For readers who enjoyed COWBOY FOR HIRE, the second novel of The Dream Maker series proves to be as equally entertaining as the first.<br />Peerless Studios begins filming I in the San Bernadino Mountains in 1907. Martin Tafft, the man in charge of the film's production, assembles a fascinating crew for the filming. As his responsibilities to Peerless escalate, Martin hires Colin Phillips as his assistant for the summer.<br />Unfortunately, Colin has spent most of his life with his head inside various schools and universities. As much as he understands facts, Colin is not equiped for emotions. A child protege and now an assistant professor, the summer job with Peerless Studios allows him to learn more than this new and booming industry. Fascinated by motion pictures, he's not prepared for the necessity of sacrificing accuracy for completing production.<br />Brenda Fitzpatrick abandons Broadway to accept the lead female part in Indian Love Song. Although she loved the stage, her financial responsibility to her family dictates that she accept the high paying salary associated with motion pictures. Brenda makes her living with her looks, masking her intelligence in an eye-pleasing package that belies her intelligence. She's never minded men assuming that she has no brains, at least, until she meets Colin. Although she's not aware that her accent labels her an unlettered booby in Colin's eyes, she does quickly realize that he does not believe in the sincerity of her questions. Indeed, Colin scoffs at her dream of being a librarian rather than an actress, and does not appreciate the sincerity of her desire to retire with a room full of books and the leisure to enjoy them.<br />BEAUTY AND THE BRAIN is a refreshing, light-hearted novel that underscores the foolish assumptions lovers make. The classic case of not understanding the opposite sex, or even one's self, makes for a lovely conundrum. Further, the film industry background, sandlot baseball, and gently mentioned social commentary result in a vividly realized, fabulously entertaining read. BEAUTY AND THE BRAIN comes very highly recommended.	2001-05-30
1979188:US	49693975	R1JC9UUA6ZCZ9H	0373244045	188338900	Almost A Bride (Wyoming Wildflowers)	Books	4	105	109	N	N	Deep emotion and loop holes -- Recommended	Dire financial and legal problems lead Matty Breenan to a desperate solution. Determined to save the Flying W ranch following the death of her great-uncle, Matty proposes marriage to Dave Currick. Never mind he broke her heart six years ago when he unexpectedly ended their affair. If he agrees, marriage to Dave, in a round about fashion, qualifies Matty for a grant that has the potential of saving the ranch. <br />In the three weeks since she returned to Wyoming, Matty has pointedly avoided him; now, she's suddenly proposing. Dave has no idea why Matty wants to marry him except that in some inexplicable way her reason ties to her effort to save the Flying W. Dave's convinced she won't follow through, but, if playing along lets him back in Matty's life, then he's game. So game that he finds himself married. When he learns she didn't need him, but his address, Dave's anything but thrilled. Nevertheless, he's also determined to see Matty's efforts to save her ranch succeed, whatever he must do. <br />Patricia McLinn finds an innovative motive for a marriage of convenience in ALMOST A BRIDE. With her characteristic flair, these powerful characters and their emotional intensity keep the pages turning. Indeed, the mix of miscommunication, deep emotion and loopholes creates a delightful read. Recommended.	2001-05-30
1979504:US	49693975	R15YHO5G4ZI7GC	0821768107	345181354	Anne's Wish (Ballad Romances)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The joy of discovery and the magic of a wishing well	Up until she began receiving the attentions of Timothy Linville, Anne Barrington's life at court had been one of isolation. With only distant relatives as family and all of her time devoted to the Queen, Anne's loneliness was palpable. Therefore, Timothy's kisses upon her hands and sweet words led to dreams of love and marriage. After taking Anne's virtue, however, Timothy abandons his plans for advancement at court in lieu of marrying an heiress. <br />Her ethereal beauty captivates James, the Earl of Westland, after one glimpse. Their chance meeting in the corridors of the palace while everyone else attends the King's birthday ball leads to a marriage proposal. Anne needs to escape the Queen's service and James needs an heir. Although James proposes a marriage of convenience, he doesn't tell Anne how captivating he finds her. Nor does she confess her own increasing ardor for this handsome rescuer.<br />As secrets of the past, especially Anne's concern over her loss of virginity to another man, continue to haunt their marriage, Anne and James must learn to separate the past from the future they build together. This gentle journey toward discovery is marked by several remarkable secondary characters, including a bird-eating spider, and the Ladies of the neighborhood, both of the risqué and of the gossipy variety.<br />Joy Reed creates a delightfully pleasant romance in ANNE'S WISH. As Anne's wish comes true, the joy of discovery and the magic of a wishing well mark the passage of infatuation into a deep and abiding love. Reed's graceful writing aptly reflects the most beautiful elements of this era. Indeed, this racy Regency comes highly recommended.	2001-05-30
1980055:US	49693975	RNISWS918XKFR	0373259344	416238256	Dangerously Irresistible (Mail Order Men)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Mistaken identity and pink handcuffs!	Thirty-four responses to his Texas Man ad and they all wanted a white knight to rescue them from the doldrums, depression, or desperation of their lives. The one woman he thought might be right for him, and she fell for his cousin leaving him to be their best man. Meeting Maddie, however, promises to change his life. So she isn't the type to stroll Jamaican beaches in bikini, offering to share banana daiquiris and making love in the moonlight. But Maddie Griffin does offer lawyer Tanner Backburn the one quality he wants most -- a challenge. Although perhaps winding up handcuffed like a roped cow to her hotel bed wasn't precisely what he had in mind.<br />Bail jumpers who keep Griffin Bail Enforcement Agency busy all fit the young and stupid category. So when Maddie sees the ad in Texas Men for the man who's the perfect image of the Kissing Bandit, the suave seducer who kisses then absconds with women's money, she vows to bring him in. Trading secretary for tracker, Maddie intends to prove herself to her overprotective father and brothers. Maybe that will finally secure the entrance into the family's business, and their hearts that she's always desired. Despite Tanner prostration that she has the wrong man, Maddie's determined to bring the fugitive to justice.<br />Mistaken identity, pink handcuffs and pepper spray have never been so much fun! Kristin Gabriel's rollicking, madcap romance pours on the passion and humor. Indeed, Gabriel creates a memorable romp complete with a ghost, sensuality and eccentricity, proving itself to be absolutely irresistible! As kidnap victim Tanner turns seducer, and the stakes are raised, playing without limits has never been so much fun. A keeper, DANGEROUSLY IRRESISTIBLE comes very highly recommended.	2001-05-29
1981068:US	49693975	R3K0S1FPF2X8GY	0821769936	57448662	The Lady's Proposal	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Sensuality at its best -- Highly recommended	Lady Clarissa Pomeroy believes that marriage consists of the ultimate sacrifice. While she considers the parade through London's ballrooms of the marriage market to be insulting and maddening, Clarissa also pragmatically admits that she can't change the way of things. But she can and will control how she meets the conditions of her grandfather's will that dictate her marriage.<br />Clarissa chooses to propose a marriage of convenience to Simon Sinclair, Earl of Sheridan, because she believes him to be trustworthy and of sound reputation. She also believes he'll honor his word regarding her personal expenditures. Clarissa funds Haven House, a home for unwed mothers of the lower classes. In so doing, she disregards the current social standards which dictate that she not even have knowledge of such women and unfortunate circumstances. Such social concern would leave her at the mercy of gossips and shunned by society should word ever get out.<br />Given the strict rules specified in her grandfather's will, the physical attraction and strange yearning that she feels in the Earl's presence is of no consequence. She certainly won't admit that she's been in love with Simon for two years. Likewise, Simon will not admit his own attraction, except in the most physical sense.<br />Clarissa's opposite, Simon is conservative, has no understanding of the need for women's rights, and dislikes progressive thinking. Indeed Clarissa's Scottish stubbornness as well as her boldness makes her entirely unsuitable for marriage. Even as he intends to curb her boldness, however, Simon admires her publicly quiet and self-contained ways. <br />Sexual tension and the promise of a passionate body to match her high spirit cause Simon to accept Clarissa's proposal. Intrigued by the seeming contradictions of character, Simon admires the very qualities he's intent upon changing. His intentions of turning the bold Lady Pomeroy into a submissive and obedient wife are doomed to failure.<br />Patricia Waddell pens a delightful &quot;marriage of convenience&quot; tale certain to please fans of this sub-genre. With her characteristic knowledgeable style, she presents the period with a clarity that brings freshness to the era. The characters are drawn with realism and compassion, creating believable and sympathetic people. Further, Simon's conditions for marriage, that she perform her wifely duty &quot;whenever, wherever, and however&quot; he wishes forms an exciting sensual premise. Indeed, Sexual tension and burning desire create a passionate read that comes highly recommended.	2001-05-29
1982073:US	49693975	RHHWQ7TSDWC1Y	0821771256	113581520	The Endless Sky	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Memorable! Very highly recommended	In a tone as bleak, and yet majestically beautiful as the Badlands themselves, author Kathryn Lynn Davis presents a tale of madness, jealousy, passion and murder when the past meets the present. Betrayal and treachery haunts the grossly lands and towering cliffs, burning like the purposefully set fire set to destroy the Vallombrosa cattle range. As this timeless epic saga culminates in the changing century, the whisper of secrets becomes a raging inferno that threatens to destroy them all.<br />Phillip de Vallombrosa follows his father's dream to succeed over the forces of the untamed land. Following his father's death in the deserts of Africa, Phillip and his family, including his stepmother Medora, leave Paris behind to return to the enterprise his father abandoned fourteen years ago. There the Vallombrosas resurrect a business venture intended to ship freshly butchered and packaged meat to the meatpacking plants of Chicago. Unfortunately, dangerous and ruthless enemies intend to see the Vallombrosa business fail again. A neighboring rancher and his family will stop at nothing to destroy the Vallombosa, blaming old wounds and desperate secrets for the pain of the present. Retribution becomes their motive for destruction, and they will stop at nothing to have their revenge.<br />At twenty-six, Mianne fits in neither the Sioux world of her mother, nor the white world of her father. She and her father were left at the Chateau in the Badlands to care for the property until the Vallombrosas' return. Now Phillip finds not the elusive, ethereal girl he left behind, but the wildly passionate, and extremely private woman who refuses to allow anyone to touch her heart. Yet her love for Phillip leads to their marriage, even as she refuses to reveal the secrets of her heart. Indeed, her passion for Phillip proves to be as untamed and dangerous as the feelings still felt by her rival Katheryn, who vows to have Phillip for herself, or to destroy him so that no one might have him.<br />Originally penned in 1984, THE ENDLESS SKY is certainly worthy of reprint, especially for those of us who haven't previously discovered this author's work. Kathryn Lynn Davis pens an extremely complex tale with many subplots that tie back into a dark tale of revenge and betrayal. Her characters are realistically multifaceted, with deep felt hatreds, joys, jealousies and dreams. With a master's precision, she weaves these multihued elements into an intricate whole that dazzles the reader. Further, the breath taking magnificence of the Badlands provides an evocative background rich with legend and meaning. Despite the complexity of characterizations, however, the narrative flows with a richness and simplicity that marks this novel as an outstanding read. Very highly recommended.	2001-05-28
1983209:US	49693975	R35J0CZPNA9J9A	0373271522	116696089	Familiar Stranger (A Year Of Loving Dangerously)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Wow! A must read! Very highly recommended	A Year of Living Dangerously reaches its breath-taking conclusion with the same author whom began this memorable series, Sharon Sala. In FAMILIAR STRANGER, Sala masterfully blends romance and danger in a daring combination sure to set the reader's interest aflame.<br />When the brothers last met in Vietnam, Frankie shot younger brother David Wilson is an arms deal gone wrong. Despite his brother's betrayal of family and country, David attempted to set the warehouse on fire, allowing the evidence to burn. What David didn't know was that his badly scarred elder brother not only survived the fire, but also vowed revenge. <br />Forty years later, the leader of SPEAR Jonah is ready for his career to end. He's tired of secrets, lies and the devastating losses. He's ready to resume his true identity as David Wilson and seek out the woman he lost all those years ago. David has other unfinished business, however. He must bring to a conclusion the situation between himself and his brother. That situation has already cost numerous SPEAR operatives incredible pain and damage. And until that showdown comes to a conclusion, David cannot dream of a future with the woman he loves.<br />David's unexpected reappearance, after the shock wears off, brings Cara incredible joy. It also goes to show that she'd known the boy, not the dark brooding man. After all these years apart, Cara wouldn't mind the rituals of courtship, but refuses to waste any time, as whatever he offers is enough, proving the powerful tug of passion regardless of the number of gray hairs. <br />Sharon Sala pens an unexpectedly poignant tribute to those who give their lives to protect the citizens of this country. With a deep understanding of the devastating effects of war, from battle damage to nightmares to those left behind, Sala creates a touching tale of revenge, joy, and love. The characters, including the secondary characters, are extraordinary, drawn with rich detail and given the maturity of age. Bravo to Sala and to Harlequin for making mature characters the center of this remarkable novel. As much as I enjoy the twenty and thirty somethings, the maturity of characters such as these has richness and depth that remains unequalled. Very highly recommended.	2001-05-27
1983853:US	49693975	R1A7SL6RRAY357	0373243995	20475067	The Stranger In Room 205 (Hot Off The Press / Silhouette Special Edition, No. 1399)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Amnesia with an original twist -- Very highly recommended	Lawyer turned newspaper owner Serena Schaffer sits at the bedside of a stranger, unable to abandon him until someone somewhere knows of his injuries. She had found him in a ditch and followed the ambulance to the hospital. Beaten, robbed, and left for dead, the man is a stranger no one in the small Arkansas town recognizes. Now she finds the man intriguing, despite her intuition that he's making up answers as he goes along.<br />Without an identity, the man makes one up, introducing himself as Sam Wallace. Instinct warns caution is required until he can figure out who is and why he is in this small town. As his frustration mounts and panic comes close, Sam hides it behind his pride, refusing to admit to his vulnerability. Once discharged from the hospital, Sam accepts Serena's mother's offer a job and a place to stay, at least until answers can be had. Instinctive dislike of lawyers, certainty of previous self sufficiency, and indefinable need to know Serena better provide the only clues to his past and his identity. But when Serena realizes he's misled her regarding his identity, her reaction will almost certainly be outrage.<br />As tired as I grow with amnesia stories, I must admit to really liking this one! Typically, the heroine is struck with amnesia and finds herself terribly dependent on some man. Instead, Gina Wilkins casts a unique spell upon her hero, making him the amnesiac filled with the expected secrets and fears. As this unexpected hero struggles to reconcile his past to the present, the plot moves smartly along to its exciting conclusion. THE STRANGER IN ROOM 205 comes very highly recommended.	2001-05-26
1983903:US	49693975	R1A3JZFJZ8FPP0	0373259336	579207362	Seducing Mr. Right	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Sensual tension reaches new highs! Very highly recommended	Since she was six years old and they became step-siblings, Catherine Harris has dreamed that Luke VanBuren would treat her like family. Nineteen years have passed and she only wants him more -- not as a brother but as her husband. Now Cat arrives in San Francisco and she has a plan. Cat tells Luke that she wants him to find her find Mr. Right.<br />Luke swore to his dying father that he would take care of Cat. He'd promised Cat, as well, to always be an available and supportive big brother. Now his feelings are not at all brotherly, but he gave his word. Besides, he's a freewheeling playboy and she seeks security. He's a daredevil who enjoys variety and she's a virgin. He wants affairs and she wants marriage. With nothing in common and Cat living with him, Luke's now expected to find Mr. Right for her while his own hormones rage. But he can't give in to his dark desires because Cat's too good to toy with; she's a keeper.<br />The beauty of San Francisco comes alive as the backdrop to Cherry Adair's SEDUCING MR. RIGHT. Ocean breezes, however, can't cool the frenzied passion shared by Cat and Luke. Indeed, having had my own sexy, older step-brother, I find the premise absolutely wonderful and terrifically original! Fighting one's own desires has never been as much fun, and loosing is even better! With an adventuresome plot, appealing and real characters, and scorching scenes, SEDUCING MR. RIGHT comes very highly recommended.	2001-05-26
1984620:US	49693975	R1XP7H45KCCL1W	0373271514	440848726	Hard-Headed Texan (A Little Town In Texas) (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A light, pleasant read -- recommended	Antonia Campbell left behind the devastatingly socially correct world of her parents, and the abusive world of her ex-husband, to create life according to her own desires in Angel Eye, Texas. Four years of independence and hard work culminate in her dream job of veterinarian. Not just limiting her skills to cats and dogs, at six feet tall, Antonia can care for even the largest animals in distress. <br />When Antonia shows up at Daniel Sutton's ranch to help a mare in crisis, he's not so certain the towering beauty has what it takes to save horse and colt. But when she rides away successfully, Antoinia also rides away with a piece of his heart. Sparks fly the moment he set eyes on Antonia, and Daniel can't resist this reserved beauty. He's raised his son alone for fifteen years, and never minded be alone until she stirs emotions he thought he'd forgotten. But when danger calls, Daniel's protective streak may be too much for the fiercely independent vet. <br />HARD-HEADED TEXAN will leave you wondering who's the most hard-headed -- the woman in love that refuses to give into her emotions or the man who won't give up. With a gently entertaining style, Candace Camp proves that equally matched and equally hard-characters create a charmingly light, enjoyable read filled with deep emotions and evocative characterizations. Indeed, the unusual career choice for the heroine provides a fresh and intriguing background; unfortunately the plot lacks the bite necessary to create a really memorable read. Nevertheless, HARD-HEADED TEXAN comes recommended.	2001-05-25
1984628:US	49693975	R3RHMQMDLAPRAA	0821767879	137212515	Highland Lady	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Timeless passion and beauty of the Highlands -- Very highly	Elen was sworn by her dying father to regain the lands stolen by the neighboring Forrests a hundred years ago. As he passes his castle, clansmen, vassals and families into Elen's inexperienced hands, she endeavors to uphold her father's example. Disdaining the customs of her sex, Elen dresses as a man and acts as lord to her people. When her sister Roslyn is reported kidnapped, Elen suspects the kidnapping to be retribution for not yielding her claim to the disputed land.<br />Opportunity is with Elen when she takes Munro, the Lord of Rancoff, hostage. She intends to barter Munro for her sister, but the fiery attraction she feels in Munro's presence threatens Elen's careful control. Despite the attraction, Elen dares not marry any man for fear of loosing possession of Dunblane and not being able to keep her vow to her father. Munro refuses to take no for an answer, and soon they will have to work together to uncover the greedy plots that threaten them both. <br />Once again Colleen Faulkner creates a memorable novel that uniquely captures the indomitable spirit of the Highlands. The fierce warrior woman who cares little for clean floors, yet is tempered by her passionate nature, presents a powerful character. Likewise, the hero's determination to win her heart, even while held prisoner, presents a fun, almost playful image -- who wouldn't want such a sexy hero at one's beck and call! Additionally, the ferocious plot, complete with traitorous motives and evil conspiracies, juxtaposed against the medieval background, creates a fabulous tale too absorbing to put down. HIGHLAND LADY is very highly recommended.	2001-05-25
1985336:US	49693975	R3C57E7LOILOY9	0373259360	61248692	Secret Fantasy (Fantasies Inc.)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Sizzling! Very highly recommended	In Harlequin Temptation's tantalizing miniseries Fantasies, Inc., Merrilee Schaefer-Weston lives vicariously through the happiness of others. For a hefty fee, she brings guests to Fantasies, Inc, a cluster of four, lush, paradise resorts off the Florida Keys. A stickler about client confidentiality, Merrilee offers people's deepest, most private secrets and desires. At the end of their fantasy, guests have a choice of walking away and continuing as they were before, or accepting a risk that changes their lives. The second novel of this miniseries by Carly Phillips is named for the island SECRET FANTASY. <br />Juliette Stanton was branded Chicago's Run-Away-Bride, an unwilling public figure following the scandal of her aborted wedding. She had trusted Stuart because he was a childhood friend and she thought that she knew him well. A man who intended to use her senator father's connections had previously hurt her. So while their physical relationship was lukewarm at best, Juliette wanted to trust Stuart who had always been a part of her life and felt safe. Then she learned that Stuart didn't want her at all, just her connection to winning her father's soon-to-be-vacant senate seat. Minutes before their wedding ceremony, Juliette walked in on Stewart while he was talking to a reputed mob boss. If he went down, Stuart threatened to take her father down with him. Now she's off to Secret Fantasy for pampering and relaxation.<br />Reporter Doug Houston is a reporter for the Chicago Tribune. He had been involved with a woman for two years but couldn't commit. He and ex both worked and played together, and he trusted the information his ex provided. When he didn't come through a commitment, the information she recently provided regarding money laundering and Juliette's former fiancé suddenly became unverifiable, but not before it reached print. Doug still believes his story to be true, and Juliette to hold the answers. While Doug isn't looking to expose Juliette in any way,he does want to take down her ex-fiancé. Before his fantasy even begins, Doug feels guilt over the charade of using his fantasy and Juliette to get his story.<br />Time on Secret Fantasy brings out Juliette's spark and intensity. Doug can't resist being attracted to her energy and excitement. Juliette's transformation since her wedding day was almost as intriguing as the story he was supposed to be persuing. Juliette's ready for a week of decadence and sin. A sexy stranger will fill the bill perfectly. Only one fear remains, that she hasn't left the press behind. She doesn't want headlines regaling her secret fantasy to haunt the last few months of her father in office.<br />Marilee is bound by ethics to allow her guests to reveal their identities and backgrounds when and if they choose. When Juliette confines that she wants Doug to be her fantasy man, Marilee allows them to work it out, not believing Doug is out to hurt Juliette. But Doug may be the one at risk as a result of his own fantasy. He certainly never expected to fall for Juliette. As the tables inexplicably turn on him, Doug gets more than he bargained for. But convincing Juliette that he's not the enemy, especially since he's a reporter, will prove quite a challenge.<br />SECRET FANTASY provides a tantalizing escape. The luscious sensuality and allure of hot nights provide a marvelous backdrop for this exhilarating love story. The sparkle of a heroine letting her hair down for the first time and indulging in a simple drink or a picnic dinner and a man who finds her irresistible creates a hot, sultry read. Carly Phillips' characteristic passion sparkles in her prose. Highly recommended.	2001-05-25
1985480:US	49693975	RQMS9A9JPWHLS	0821770349	744391879	Against The Odds (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Impossible to put down and impossible to forget -- Very high	During the final days of the Civil War, as the country began sending soliers home and deplorable prison conditions became known in such pits as Georgia's Andersonville, author Gwyneth Atlee recreates those painful moments in stark relief, allowing a touching story of love and survival to overcome almost insurmountable odds. <br />As Union soldier Gabe Davis journeys north aboard the Sultana, he doesn't know the ship is a time bomb just waiting to go off. Looking forward to returning to Ohio and dreaming of moving on to Oregon, Gabe carries the burden of horrific memories and accusation of desertion. Despite his feelings of unworthiness, however, he can't resist the pull of the beautiful southern woman he rescues from rowdy soldiers. <br />Yvette Augeron flees New Orleans with an accusation of murder and proof she did no wrong, if only she can make it to St. Louis and her uncle agrees to intervene. Unfortunately, the true killer, a Union soldier who also murdered her sister, follows Yvette aboard the Saltana. Yvette repays her debt of gratitude to Gabe when she listens to his tragic story of hostility and accusations of cowardice. In those quite moments aboard the Sultana, Gabe and Yvette find acceptance and redemption. Then their world explodes in fire, freezing water, and a killer's diabolical machinations. <br />Gwyneth Atlee delivers another powerfully dazzling read in AGAINST THE ODDS. History books largely ignore the tragic sinking of the Sultana in the wake of Lincoln's assignation, yet Atlee brings the exposition vividly to life with commanding characterizations and a gripping plot. Even the secondary characters, from the soldier with a leg beset with gangrene and the drowning of a kitten, touch the heart with their eloquent rendering. AGAINST THE ODDS is impossible to put down and impossible to forget. Very highly recommended.	2001-05-25
1987407:US	49693975	R1BHMS8ET4PXUQ	1551668092	157751882	Tempting Janey	Books	4	0	0	N	N	How could a one-time friend turn into a sexual fantasy?	Janey Mayfield returns to the small town of Brookwood, South Carolina to assume ownership of her aunt's candy stores Sweet Dreams. Starting over again at thirty-eight is quite a challenge. Her seventeen-year-old daughter Robin is both the joy of her life, and a challenge to her sanity. <br />With her father nearby, Robin demonstrates the classically blaming and painful reactions typical of children of divorce. As Janey struggles to balance her checkbook with late child support payments, the threat of a new candy store at the mall, and a boyfriend for her daughter who makes her distinctly nervous, she comes to represent many single mothers struggling to keep abreast of life's challenges. <br />High school Principal Dillon Reed is an ex-Marine with a perchance for handling things alone, whether it be a break in at the school or the secrets of his painful marriage. Now widowed, Dillon doesn't plan to risk his heart again after the disaster his marriage proved to be. But when Janey returns to town, Dillon can't resist the pull. Never mind the painful past they share, and the wretched pain inflicted by their previous spouses. <br />TEMPTING JANEY breaks many stereotypes and boldly confronts a single mother's worst fear -- her daughter's safety risked by a boyfriend. Additionally, the older hero and heroine, as opposed to most romances dwelling on the twenty-something, or at least those interested and ready to have babies, brings a touch of maturity and depth seldom matched in mainstream romance. Readers should expect a somewhat lively, if naughty, love story that overcomes previous spousal indiscretions in addition to a complex, emotionally challenging read that approaches life as it truly might be lived. Indeed, TEMPTING JANEY is highly entertaining, coming highly recommended.	2001-05-23
1987770:US	49693975	R1NP23O51OL08G	0821767305	743747274	Reilly's Gold: Irish Blessing (Irish Blessings)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Blessing or curse? Very highly recommended	REILLY'S GOLD, the second of the Irish Blessing series by Elizabeth Keys, continues with the middle brother's turn with an ancient psychic gift. The Irish Blessing, as it is called, was given by the Druids and consists of knowing when love arrives, however maddening or inopportune that knowledge might be. <br />In 1858, Reilly Ship Works is threatened with financial ruin so the youngest brother, Devin Reilly sets out for the California gold fields to seek his fortune. As soon as Devin sets foot on American soil, however, his fortunes take a fortuitous, though alarming, turn. When a scuffle frightens the horses drawing a carriage, Devin leaps to the rescue, only to find his Blessing. Devin doesn't think he has the time for a &quot;life altering event&quot; now, but destiny takes a hand, proving that the unexpected may just be what Devin needs. A scandalous kiss alters his course as the woman's eyes reveal both laughter and promises, bringing him a feeling of having come home. So despite his obligations, Devin finds himself accompanying her home.<br />Margaret Sylvia Worth Brownley only knew that Devin could &quot;stop a speeding carriage and start the wild racing of her heart.&quot; While most men find the idea of a woman running a business completely scandalous, Devin finds Maggie's dreams for her future remarkable. Maggie's grandmother has run her lumber business for thirty years, and one day plans to hand the business into the safekeeping of her granddaughter. So when a letter comes informing Maggie of her grandmother's ill health, it's up to Devin to accompany her to Maine. Besides, Maggie's father has arranged an ill-fated marriage for his daughter, and nothing will dissuade him from his plans. The trip, however, allows both Devin and Maggie the opportunity to learn that love is more precious than gold.<br />REILLY'S GOLD continues this fascinating series about love and an ancient gift. For a family of shipbuilders, it is quite amusing that Devin lacks sea legs.Additionally, the mentioning of the much beloved grandmother, both in the telling of the blessing and in the making of tea for the seasick, brings this unseen character to life preparing for her continued influence in the third novel. Furhter, this memorable cast of characters brings the Bostonian stuffiness and prejudice against the Irish vividly alive. With Elizabeth Key's talented pen, this novel is pure gold, coming very highly recommended.	2001-05-23
1987935:US	49693975	R2BMR4VXRZ2QA9	0821768093	29360085	Fly Me To The Moon (Zebra Contemporary Romance)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Wild and outrageous! Very highly recommended	Savvy Sofia Rose Cardinella has left the same groom at the alter three times. Her father and fiance just won't take the hit, but prefer to pay for the reception, cake and dresses, believing she'll eventually show up. Unfortunately, the only consistency about Sofia is her refusal to marry a man her father approves of. <br />Enter Ben Estes. He's not Italian. He dares to sing Frank Santra songs. He does have wit, charm, a masterful style, an, very quickly, Sofia's heart. Even when her father has Ben yanked off stage during his second number, for daring to sing Frankie's songs of course, Ben maintains his intensity, sexiness and authority. Not even death threats will stop this romance. <br />And it's a good thing too, since the elder Cardinella sends too bumbling hit men to erase his problem. When they show up at Sofia and Ben's little vacation retreat, the solution seems simple: marriage. But will that be enough to keep him alive?<br />Newcomer Kylie Adams' sophisticated style scores a direct hit! With a flair for the dramatic and outrageous, she creates characters who border on the manic, act out the impossible, and keep the laughter rolling. Fashion, cosmetics, and hit men make FLY ME TO THE MOON an exciting read too good to miss. Oh, and don't forget the sassy Mr. Pickles, who deserves his very own acclaim. Very highly recommended.	2001-05-23
1988192:US	49693975	R27ZIDNMUX0ESY	0821770802	317196441	Can't Stop Loving You (Zebra romantic suspense)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Second chances can be remarkable -- Very highly recommended	When she was only eighteen, Rowan gave her child up for adoption. Fifteen years later, when Rowan receives an email from her daughter, the events of that long ago Independence day suddenly resurface -- the signing of the papers relinquishing rights to her daughter, and the loss of the child's father as well. The email provokes her into leaving behind her small town life in Missouri, and flying to New York to meet her past. But when she arrives, Mariel finds a newspaper article that indicates her daughter is missing.<br />Mariel contacts the child's father, Noah, to clue him in that their daughter might be in trouble. Together they meet the adoptive parents, and begin the quest to find the missing girl. Along the way, they must confront not only the past, but also their still strong feelings for each other. Their time together becomes a journey in self-discovery and an opportunity to heal the wounds of the past. Indeed, if they have the courage, Mariel and Noah have the chance to reclaim all that was lost, as they soon realize that not only have they never stopped loving each other, they've also never stopped loving the child they share.<br />CAN'T STOP LOVING YOU is one the most emotionally charged, deeply felt novels I have encountered in mainstream fiction. Personal experience gives this novel an added depth and an assertion to the &quot;truth&quot; of the emotions, guilt, and challenges. A novel of shared pain, of growth, of second chances and joy, CAN'T STOP LOVING YOU comes very highly recommended.	2001-05-23
1988415:US	49693975	R2KKIWPHGHAE4X	0821768115	778317240	Reilly's Pride (Ballad Romances)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Blessing or curse? Very highly recommended	REILLY'S PRIDE, the third of the Irish Blessing series by Elizabeth Keys, completes the stories of the three brothers united by an ancient psychic gift. The Irish Blessing, as it is called, consists of knowing when love arrives, however terrible the responsibility that goes with it. <br />Captain Quintin Reilly, the eldest Reilly brother, gives up the sea after eight years to come home to try to salvage Reilly Ship Works. Quintin forsakes the scent of adventure for the responsibility of not only his own family but also those who depend upon the shipyard for their livelihood. Past pain has left Quntin's heart numb until his kisses his wife when they marry. Then suddenly a heat rolls through him, carrying the promise of The Blessing in all its raw power. <br />Her father successfully married Siannon Rhodes to Percival Crofton, a man with cold, cruel hands many years her senior. Her father gained connections and a hefty bride price for his daughter. Siannon gained a cold marriage and a son. Now widowed, Siannon must marry again quickly or become the pawn of her father yet again. So Siannon boldly proposes a marriage to her childhood friend Quintin, seeking to protect her son and herself from her father's manipulations. <br />Fascinatingly, Siannon carries her own psychic blessings, having the ability to sense emotion -- at least in those not too close to her. Unfortunately, she can't read Quintin's emotions, which often leaves her feeling bereft. Proudly, she bears the pain even as she bore her father's abuse and cruelty. Yet it is that very gift that will bind them as tightly as Quintin's own gift.<br />REILLY'S PRIDE by writing team Elizabeth Keys, the pseudonym for Susan C Stevenson and Mary Lou Frank, completes the stories of the Reilly brothers with grace and a touch of the paranormal. Once again the antihero is painted with a black brush, and there's no sympathy to be had for such a cruel man. Yet the complexity of the plot and motives of the characters keeps thenovel moving at a fast clip, providing delightful entertainment. It's interesting to see the play of two psychic gifts, and the unique balance that they strike. Fans will delight to know that REILLY'S HEART, Meaghan Reilly's story, will be available in December 2001. REILLY'S PRIDE is another keeper! Very highly recommended.	2001-05-23
1988461:US	49693975	R13ZXFVGO97ZGZ	1551668084	63200195	Storm Warning	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Thunder, trance and murder -- Very highly recommended	Six first graders shared a gifted class more than twenty years ago, a class that was disbanded when a fire destroyed the school. Now someone is making ominous calls to those grown women in which the sound of thunder and chimes activate a time bomb. As children and husbands are left abandoned, as tragic suicides that appear without motive add up, only Ginny Shapiro still lives. Resourceful, intrepid and fearsome, Ginny uses her reporting skills begin to uncover the secrets of the past that reside somewhere beyond memory.<br />Information about the rash of suicides, previously seemingly unconnected, FBI agent Sullivan Dean too late to save the others. As he tracks Ginny to her apartment, only to be too late to catch her, Sullivan feels an immediate connection to the woman in the photograph -- a connection that only intensifies as he follows her to an isolated fishing cabin far from phones. But when a freak connection with an unconnected danger threatens Ginny, Sullivan risks all to protect her and save her from the savage dangers that lurk.<br />While the intensity of the romance of the novel creates a pleasant counterpart to the intensity of the danger, it is the suspenseful elements that make STORM WARNING a terrific read. With flair the dramatic and unexpected, author Dinah McCall delivers a combination of police procedural with strong psychological overtones. Remarkable complexity and surprising conclusion result in ominous suspense that comes very highly recommended.	2001-05-23
1988597:US	49693975	R3QN17Z2CX8CAN	0821768751	114666697	My Lady Imposter (Ballad Romances)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Dreams of magic and of miracles -- highly recommended	Pestilence decimated those living at the convent, leaving behind the old Sister Berenice and young Aurelie. When strange knights approach begging shelter, they cannot turn the men away. The fortune hunters, however, have no qualms about killing the old nun and robbing the convent of its treasures. One knight is soon pitted against the other, however, in defense of the young woman, whom they at last leave behind, but not before she's badly beaten.<br />Damon of Wufere returns from the king's campaigns in France, and a year spent in a dudgeon, to find his father dead, his four young sisters running amuck, and his estates in disarray. He determines to claim the bride long promised so that she might assume some of the duties of the castle. However, when Damon arrives at the convent, he only finds one survivor, a badly beaten yet vulnerably beautiful young woman who wears his betrothal ring. Despite her protestations, he carries her to the castle so they might be wed. As his bride gently reaches beyond his well place guards to touch the man behind the warrior, Damon soon finds his heart is captive to this beauty. Yet he can't help wondering what secrets she keeps.<br />Author Suzanne McMinn brings the pageantry, intrigue and danger of medieval England vividly alive in MY LADY IMPOSTER. Like a breath of fresh air, McMinn stirs ancient history into a vivid account that includes mischievous children, betrayal and love. Her obvious delight in the period gives the background and characterizations both believability and depth. While I often become short tempered with characters who purposefully mislead, the heroine circumstances and reasons lend her motivation a unique and convincing twist. MY LADY IMPOSTER has been added to my keeper shelf and comes highly recommended.	2001-05-23
1994879:US	49693975	RXLQCWFMZ9CO1	0821766473	992311742	Reilly's Law (Irish Blessing)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Blessing or curse? Very highly recommended	REILLY'S LAW, the first of a three part series by Elizabeth Keys, introduces three brothers united by an ancient psychic gift. The Irish Blessing, as it is called, consists of knowing when love arrives, however maddening or tantalizing that knowledge might be. <br />Bryan Reilly once put aside his passion for the sea, forsaking the Reilly ships, to take up the cause of the law. He can't forget the dreams he'd lost through his own reckless folly and the subsequent estrangement from his family. As he stands upon a Reilly ship sailing from Limerick, Ireland in 1858, Bryan is aghast at the remarkable young woman's daring when she approaches him, begging him to kiss her. Heedless impulse once cost him everything, and once again he finds himself giving into impulse despite his years of careful control.<br />The kiss hides Emilynne Wellesley and her two young children from the men who stalk them. Fearful for all their lives, she desperately throws her lot in with this stranger, hoping they can sail to safety. Little does she suspect that the kiss brings to bear an ancient Irish Blessing, or the destiny she's set into motion. Emilynne has always preferred her studies of ancient scrolls over traditional feminine mysteries. Such a background hasn't prepared her for Bryan's devastating kiss or for the danger she faces.<br />Thaddeus Whyte has insidious plans for the young children, planning to rid himself of them much as he did their parents. He won't loose the livelihood and fine reputation he's created for himself as a trainer and horse breeder. He'll stop at nothing to gain custody of the children and the fortune they represent.<br />I confess to waiting until the last part of this series arrived in the mail to rescue this novel from my bookcase. When I read the cover, I found the concept of a blessing is so intriguing I couldn't resist reading this series in order. First time author Elizabeth Keys proves her remarkable skill with words, creating a novel of surprising maturity and lyrical skill based on a fascinating paranormal premise. The plot of REILLY'S LAW moves smartly along, including two young children with remarkable skill. Further, it's just great fun to watch the &quot;bad guys&quot; get their comeuppance. Very highly recommended.	2001-05-18
1995092:US	49693975	R3JIWSWSECD4YJ	1551668165	427179125	Shaker Run	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Fascinating background! -- Highly recommended	Kate Marburn learned to protect herself carefully after the horrible disgrace that her ex-husband left behind. While he absconded with millions, Kate was left to face charges of fraud in court, plunging from Toledo's elite society to scandal. Her ex-husband also left behind a suicide note but no body, and a daughter whom Kate loves as if the teenager were her own. Making a new start as the rose gardener on the estate of Sarah Denbigh, a wealthy widow, Kate enjoys her new quite life.<br />Unfortunately, Kate again plunges into the murky world of lawsuits and fear when Sara dies under mysterious circumstances. Subsequently, Shaker Run, a village originally owned by the Shakers and now restored offers Kate a position as their rosarian. There she meets Jack Kilcourse, an expert on Shaker furniture and a gifted furniture builder. Jack's kisses are as dark as they are delicious. Despite not revealing anything about his past or hidden pain, Jack proves entirely too alluring. Little do Kate or Jack suspect the dangerous criminal element that will threaten both of their lives.<br />SHAKER RUN provides an intriguing look into America past, and while the creative license lends its own shading to the facts, the sparkling originality of the background proves tempting and fascinating. Shakers, as the author clearly states in her note, did not use hallucinogenic drugs, but the shading of history provides a remarkable background for fraud and murder. SHAKER RUN has a couple of distracting weaknesses. Despite defrauding his clients for millions, we never clearly learn what the antihero did with his money, or why he wants Kate's money. In addition, the daughter truly got on my nerves and I wanted to throttle her selfish ways. Nevertheless, SHAKER RUN is enormously entertaining and engaging. Highly recommended.	2001-05-18
1995671:US	49693975	R1I3LUG9A8GZ18	1551668009	4720311	Always Dakota (Dakota Series #3)	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Poignant, moving, compelling -- Very highly recommended	From the back of the book, a reader might expect just a simple love story between a man and a woman. So for those of us who didn't read the first two installments of this series, discovering this finely woven tapestry consisting of the multiple threads that bring together the townspeople of Buffalo Valley, North Dakota, creates a pleasant surprise. <br />The main characters, Margaret Clemens and Matt Eilers aren't exactly a love match. Margaret fell for him five years ago when Matt first came to town, but her lack of feminine grace prevents even a second glance. Raised by her widowed father and his six brothers, Margaret knows cattle as well as any ranch hand, but doesn't know her way around a kitchen or pantyhose. <br />The townsfolk of Buffalo Valley haven't take much to Matt, viewing him as shallow and conceited, despite his good looks. Margaret doesn't blind herself to his faults even when she proposes marriage, and knows that he accepts for the ranch they will share. Margaret knows there've been other women, but she underestimates the depths of deceit previous girlfriends might represent. <br />Matt's former girlfriend Sheryl proposes he marry Margaret just long enough to secure their financial future before he divorces her and they marry. Although Matt declines the plan, neither he nor Margaret realize the manipulations they are about to meet.<br />In addition to these terrific characters, other secondary characters create a wonderful depth. Axel, the little boy rescued from an abusive situation who will be torn from his rescuers and thrust into the foster system. Axel's parents who have their own secrets and flaws. Calla, the senior in high school, who plays one parent against another, not understanding what love really is. Calla's mother, who is pregnant and torn between the man she loves and the daughter who won't share. As characters emerge with their own story, the tapestry becomes rich, imaginative, and a marvelous reflection of life, in its most joyousaspects, as well as most painful.<br />ALWAYS DAKOTA is a deftly woven tapestry that is at once delicate with subtle nuances and bold with harsh realities. Like life, the resolutions aren't always what we want, but the realities and consequences of our choices are resolved with compassion, at times bringing tears to the eyes. Author Debbie Macomber threads are brilliant, beautiful, tawdry, and ugly, representing the beauty of life, as well as its baser counterpoint. Poignant, moving, compelling, ALWAYS DAKOTA comes very highly recommended.	2001-05-17
1996665:US	49693975	RSGTCIXW0NLBT	1584957166	866653382	Elrod McBugle On The Loose	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Comic humor at it's best! Very highly recommended	Junior high student Elrod McBugle doesn't intend to get into to trouble, it just sort of happens. Between eyeballs in beverage containers, pink bubble gum created in science lab, and ax murders, Elrod creates a memorable school year too good to miss! <br />Jeff Strand's classically irreverent voice once again strikes IN ELROD MCBUGLE ON THE LOOSE. If you love Dennis the Menace, or if you've enjoyed any of his other novels such as GRAVEYARD ROBBERS WANTED, then don't miss one! Strand's teen voice will launch hysterical laughter even in those who ordinarily refuse to give in to giggles. Even if junior high is only a memory, readers of any age will find Elrod's shenanigans amusing. ELROD MCBUGLE ON THE LOOSE is very highly recommended!	2001-05-16
1996969:US	49693975	R3DBZ0H6T9NBLK	080651891X	115738344	The Robin Williams Scrapbook	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great Fun! Very highly recommended	Robin Williams is only eleven years older than I am, so I guess you could say I grew up with him. Mork and Mindy were primary staple when I was in high school. So when I found THE ROBIN WILLIAMS SCRAPBOOK on sale, I couldn't resist. And in only the first couple of pages, I knew it was a bargain at any price.<br />Intersperses with the necessary &quot;place of birth&quot; type information, Stephen Spignesi recounts Williams' life from the perspective of Williams' body of work. The book's chapters each represent Williams' work in chronological order as it relates to his life. Written in an engaging, immediate tone, the reader can't help becoming a part of the flow of the text, and the &quot;legalized insanity&quot; of William's life.<br />As I read, the book's humane, honest, and humorous tidbits that kept my emotions engaged. Learning of Williams' support of actor Christopher Reeve following the accident), his perchance for sexual humor and play, and his favorite joke. Filled with photos, stories of performances, and peaks into his personal life, THE ROBIN WILLIAMS SCRAPBOOK is a fascinating, must read for Williams fans. Very Highly recommended.	2001-05-16
1997455:US	49693975	RYTQ8UUHY3J5X	0738825549	450165675	Dreams of Reality	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Unique twist -- Recommended	Twenty-four-year old Skye Patterson was orphaned at birth. Traumatic abuse in foster homes prevent her from allowing many people into her life, and certainly no man close, let alone into her bed. Self employed, Skye runs a transcription service and smartly invests her money, guaranteeing early retirement. Skye seeks out her doctor after three months of agonizing through very uncomfortable periods. When her Doctor prescribes birth control to regulate her cycle, she never suspects the true contents of this new miracle drug. Her doctor also refers Skye to psychiatrist Dr. Himes to treat her ongoing anxiety attacks. Little does she realize how much damage these \\"healers\\" will create. <br />The first time Skye saw a picture of Thaddeus Newman in the paper, she was hooked. Thaddeus is a powerful construction business owner. But their inadvertent meeting leaves her anxiety ridden. When Skye begins to experience dreams that feel vividly real, yet leave her exhausted. Soon she finds herself thrust into a world of ..., businessmen, doctors, and murder, as she tries to discover what is happening to her. As Thaddeus aids her quest, in his own way, they can only hope to live long enough to make their own dreams a reality.<br />The author gives DREAMS OF REALITY a unique twist, which I thoroughly enjoyed. She takes a frightening tale of abuse, and turns the experience for the heroine into something possible. Without the drugs, Skye would never be able to overcome her panic and her past to allow Thadeus Newman into her life. With the drugs, she allows herself to experience the \\"elusively seductive\\" qualities of the man who laughter makes her eardrums tingle. <br />Sadly, DREAMS OF REALITY suffers the weakness many self-published e-Books in that it could use a good editing. Proofing errors and syntax errors at times can throw the reader, but what the novel lacks in polish is well compensated for in imagination. DREAMS OF REALITY is recommended.	2001-05-16
1997816:US	49693975	R2VND2DT0O680L	0743300556	95324363	...Cradle and All	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Brutal and frightening! Very highly recommended	A brutal serial killer murders young mothers, slashing their uterus with the precision of a surgeon, and killing their children as well. Named Bloody-Shoes by the media, the killer ruthlessly destroys life according to some sort of bizarre plan only he understands. <br />Midwife at the Jordan Martin Center, Joanna Michaels loves her work, which affords her opportunity to seek out Dr. Kevin Willman. Abrupt and bordering on rude, there's something strangely attractive about the young intern. Perhaps it is his unconventionality. Perhaps it is because his brooding melancholy and brilliance result in a fascinating difference from the staid security of most men she's encountered. Whatever the reason, Joanna underestimates the danger and perversions he represents.<br />Joanna practically forces a relationship with Kevin. Drawn to the challenge of rescuing someone who obviously needs help, Joanna doesn't see the pathological problems concealed behind those burning, intense eyes. When Kevin attempts suicide, the act draws them together, as if she's somehow responsible for keeping him alive even after his wrists heal. He never tells her what tortures him, what drives him to such deep despair. At last, after two years, Joanna leaves Kevin. She carefully conceals her pregnancy in fear of his threatening words, &quot;If I ever find out you're pregnant, I'll do more than just walk out on you.&quot;<br />Rather than a &quot;who done it&quot;, CRADLE WILL FALL explores the murky world of a serial killer and gristly path that leads to his acts of violence. There's no question for the reader as to who the killer is; rather the author does build intense fascination for this character. I must admit to wanting to yell at the heroine to get away from the suicidal maniac, but I suppose her need for the unusual does explain why she lingers too long in such a destructive relationship. Indeed, her growth past the need for such a relationship gives Joanna depth, allowing her to become a verysympathetic and capable character. Also, the characterization of Kevin is compelling, and frightening as each layer is stripped away revealing his sordid past. Indeed, CRADLE WILL FALL is a mesmerizing exploration of the macabre and chilling, and promises to keep readers up way past bedtime -- with the lights on! Highly recommended.	2001-05-16
2001669:US	49693975	R2W9RUUVXMMYF1	0373243952	249086109	Ties That Bind (A Family Bond)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Wow! Out of tragedy comes love and family	The triplet brothers couldn't be more different, bound only by the commonality of their birth. The men learn of each other at the age of thirty-five, each holding a jagged, pie-shaped wedge that fits together for form a silver medallion leading to their common heritage. The Rocking R Ranch in Clear Water, Montana had been in their family for four generations. For the last fifty years or so the ranch belonged to Seamus Rafferty, who had thrown his daughter off the ranch and disinherited her. His daughter, their mother, died alone of cancer after giving her children up for adoption.<br />When lawyer Edward Manning notifies the triplets of the Seamus' death, they are shocked to learn they benefit from the will. But Seamus manages to reach out even from beyond the grave to exact his revenge on his daughter's children. The triplets only stand to inherit the Rocking R Ranch if they can live on the property for a year, along with Seamus' stepdaughter Willa Simmons.<br />Seamus' shocking treatment of his grandsons equals his cruel treatment of Willa. Disappointed that she wasn't a son who could inherit the ranch, he withheld his love and approval. Willa learned to run the ranch as well as her stepfather, and he promised that she would inherit. Consequently, Willa's devastated that Seamus didn't keep his promises to her. Angry and disillusioned, Willa resents the intrusion of the brothers, especially Zach, who's commanding presence replaces her own leadership on the ranch. Despite the magnetism between them, Willa refuses to yield to the growing attraction. As danger threatens, however, all the family members of the Rocking R Ranch learn the value of the ties that bind.<br />Ginna Gray pens a terrific story with THE TIES THAT BIND, weaving danger and intrigue into a fascinating tale of love and family. The depth of characterization and the smooth flow of the plot line demonstrates Gray's powerful story telling. The author manages to keep one step ahead of the reader, adding unexpected twists that lend the novel a startling originality. As each member of the family learns to trust the ties that bind them together, readers will love the multi-faceted characters and storyline. Very highly recommended.unexpected twists that lend the novel a startling originality. As each member of the family learns to trust the ties that bind them together, readers will love the multi-faceted characters and storyline. Very highly recommended.	2001-05-12
2001694:US	49693975	R2ZUM7DFZZW8SE	0821768034	779644704	Mattie and the Blacksmith (Bogus Brides)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Humorous and delightful -- Highly recommended	Most folks come to the far west and the wild prairie to start over. Single women are not allowed to live in McTavish Plain, according to the town's founder, because they somehow lead to gambling and whiskey, which can lead to loose morals. So that she may live in McTavish Plain, Mattie creates and embellishes a sea captain husband. Her creation also gave her time to find &quot;a sensitive man with a soul and intellect that suited her.&quot; When one of her students becomes intent on setting Mattie up with his uncle, however, Mattie comes to realize what she really wants out of life.<br />Roamer Tresh believes that women are too much trouble to court and keep. Unfortunately, his nephew Scout's escapades at school continually require him to cross paths with the lively teacher. As his well-meaning neighbors insist that Roamer marry to give Scout a mother, Roamer finds his resolve to avoid love and women tested to the fullest extent. Not only must he find a wife or leave town, but the romantic minded schoolmarm is assigned the task of helping Roamer write the letters that will secure his mail-order bride. <br />The premise of three sisters arriving in McTavish Plain pretending to have husbands, makes this second book of the series, MATTIE AND THE BALCKSMITH, a delight. With humorous pranks bringing Mattie and Roamer together, and an underlying threat of danger to Scout, MATTIE AND THE BALCKSMITH brings great reading pleasure. Highly recommended.	2001-05-12
2001715:US	49693975	R1Q9AE7GE4E04R	0821770845	757793173	The Lion of Venice (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Darkly sensual and riviting! Very highly recommended	The fourteenth century was a time of darkness, when crusaders brought their families grief, when Strega witches served as village healers, and when witches were burned. Dudgeons and holy wars divided families and brought death, and author Deborah Johnes masterfully recreates this bleak tone, tinged by the beauty of a love story, in THE LION OF VENICE.<br />Warrior nobleman Oliver Ducci Montaldo is one of the protectors of Venice. He prides himself on adherence to the knightly vows that his family has followed for generations. Yet now, on the eve of announcing his engagement to Lady Domiziana, he finds his thoughts on his young ward. Julian's presence in his life creates a conundrum, reminding him of what he once was, and what he lost. Yet he knows so little about her. He doesn't even know the important things about her, like what irritates her or what makes her laugh.<br />When Oliver gave her his word six years ago, Julian implicitly believed the words given on the honor as a knight. It had happened so suddenly. A tug from sleep; a flight into the night. A tunnel where she said goodbye to her mother and was placed into Oliver's safe keeping. They had both been at the Dogan Bey's against their will; she had been a twelve-year-old concubine. He had been a prisoner. She made him swear they would return to Nicopolis one day for her mother. Now, six years later, Julian returns to her guardian. Not a day had passed without a thought of him.<br />People say that Julian's mother, Aalyne de Lione, was a witch. Her power was passed to her daughter, and now the villagers live in fear of her. But they fear her less than she fears herself. Julian would forget her gifts of healing, if she could. She cannot ignore her gifts, however, any more than she can ignore her feelings for Oliver, who is betrothed to a wealthy Venetian. As the city rallies for the Crusade and Oliver prepares his fleet for the voyage to Nicopolis, Julian's desperate choice forever alter both their destinies.The answer to Julian's questions lies in Nicopolis, including the truth about her mother's fate, her heritage, and the magic of her gifts. <br />Danger lurks in every turn of the page, the ominous tone foreshadowing the revelation of secrets that bind two lives. The exotic, vivid background recreates an almost forgotten era, and the author writes with a knowledge and understanding of witchcraft. For example, Johns captures the dangers of the Strega witch with flair. The accurate historical details and opulent descriptions create a riveting tale. This second installment of the trilogy will leave the readers waiting impatiently for the third. Very highly recommended.	2001-05-12
2001859:US	49693975	R12BX0NDQTDHL5	0821768832	606536174	Autumn Flame (Clan MacLean)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	When dark passion ignites -- Recommended	In 1763, when it came between prostitution and thievery to survive, Lucy Graves had no doubts about stealing. Her stepfather Jocko had forced to mother to streetwalking, and frequently threatened Lucy with the same. Clap and starvation had killed her mother, but Lucy doesn't intend her fate to be the same. Further, she swore to get brother out of their London, East End world of fleas, consumption, and cutthroats. But a moment of tarot card reading goes wrong, landing Lucy in Newgate Prison and ordered to be executed. Quick thinking results not in execution, however, but indentured servitude in America. <br />Diarmid Maclean must marry immediately to inherit the Virginia tobacco plantation where he works as an overseer. Diarmid was once a powerful laird in Scotland before he was transported to Virginia as an indentured servant guilty of treason. Selfish, calculating females have exacted quite a price in his life, but Diarmid must have a wife. Seeing Lucy, however, promises wild, exotic pleasures along with her schemes. A wager results in taking three weeks to turn her into a lady fine enough to secure the plantation for Diarmid. <br />Separated from Mick at customs, Lucy will do anything to find her brother. Soon Diarmid makes her a bet. If the gallows bride can become a great lady then Diarmid promises to find Lucy's brother, make him a freedman, and bring back to the plantation to live until the terms of their agreement have been satisfied. Neither Lucy nor Diarmid expect the dark passion between them to erupt and threaten their simple agreement.<br />AUTUMN FLAME provides bewitching, passionate entertainment. The undercurrents of danger resulting from manipulations of secondary characters provide a startling view of slavery and treachery. While the use of Tarot is fascinating, it isn't entirely accurate. The Ace of Swords, for example, doesn't indicate division and loss, but victory and freedom. Nevertheless, AUTUMN FLAME makes it a pleasure to watch two strong will characters learn to trust love, and comes recommended.	2001-05-12
2002292:US	49693975	R2PKJ1HI0WFO2X	082176912X	637323396	A Bright Idea: Dublin Dreams (Ballad Romances)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Spunky and bold! Highly recommended	Cindy Harris' new series Dublin Dreams brings together four penniless women who only have their anonymous benefactor in common. In addition for renovating their new homes and cultivating the central garden, their financial obligations are miraculously released. In this first segment, the wife of a dissolute gambler meets her match when she gets A BIRGHT IDEA.<br />In the year since her husband's death, Dolly's life has become characterized by duplicity. Appearances of opulence when visitors call don't reveal the lack of light in the evenings, or the shortages in the pantry. Now it's only a matter of time before the bill collectors catch up to her, or the bank forecloses on the house. All because they were nearly bankrupt, without Dolly's knowledge, when Dick Creevy took out her husband in a boxing ring. Now she's going to train in Dick's academy, disguised a boy, and seek her revenge against the man she blames for ruining her life.<br />It isn't that Dick likes to fight so much as he needs to. He only finds respite when he's found the numbness that only a good pounding can produce. Dublin society doesn't seem to know what to make of his incongruities: he radiates strength yet there is nothing savage about him. His beautiful hands belie the damage they can inflict. Indeed, his myriad incongruities throw Dolly quite a blow. She's prepared to hate him, not be attracted to him. In her persona &quot;Doll Face,&quot; she gradually winds Dick's respect.<br />Harris creates a wonderful and engaging tale in A BIRGHT IDEA. The disguise is well crafted, providing marvelous tension, as each character battles mutual, apparently inappropriate, attraction. While the pace slows as other characters are introduced for other parts of the series, it quickly picks back up, providing a satisfying conclusion. Indeed, the reader will find it impossible to put A BRIGHT IDEA down, because of wanting to see how Dolly bests Dick. Highly recommended.	2001-05-12
2002398:US	49693975	ROQHITDLPFI7F	0821768026	320161106	Gabrielle	Books	5	3	3	N	N	High spirited and intense! Very highly recommended	Gabrielle is a woman of action, not one given to wait. Her endless desire for action leads to a deep, abiding love of the sea. In fact, the only place she truly feels comfortable is on the water. As a child she learned to sail back in Nova Scotia, going along on fishing trips throughout the Minas Basin. So it only makes sense that she would fall in love with a sea captain. Too bad that one minute she believes she nothing but a playful diversion, and the next she believes he loves her passionately, and only something unspoken keeps them apart.<br />Captain Jean Bouclaire is a smuggler, making his living from contraband. It's a dangerous life, and he believes Gabrielle deserves better. The only female he's ever loved as much as Gabrielle is his thirteen-year-old daughter Delphine. His daughter's mother refused to marry him all those years ago because he had no social standing and no wealth. Now Delphine's mother would rather spend the child support money on frippery than on food. Soon Jean must learn that both the love of his wife and his daughter must not be sacrificed because of his ideals about what they deserve.<br />Gabrielle's family waits impatiently for the return of her father and the reuniting of the family after thirteen years. Deftly weaving the loose threads to a conclusion while creating a buoyant, joyful romance, GABRIELLE spans time and distance to prove love does conquer all. I do hope that Claire intends to write an entire novel around the charming and spunky daughter Delphine. Indeed, Claire's remarkable Arcadian trilogy culminates a outstanding body of work, and establishing her remarkable story telling abilities. Highly recommended.	2001-05-12
2002422:US	49693975	R1OIA90CN049PK	0821767992	118856135	More Than You Wished (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Intriguing and touching! Very highly recommended	Fierce Bria still struggles to recover her family's losses ten years following the conclusion of the Civil War. The years of reconstruction in the wake of the death of two of her brothers, and her mother's remarriage have resulted in the ownership of Concord Plantation falling into the hands of her stepfather Orrin Foster. When New Yorker Lucas Kincaid arrives at the plantation looking for work, Bria sees her opportunity to regain ownership of her home. <br />Luke can't help falling for this woman who rides like a Valkyrie and defies convention when necessary. Soon Luke finds himself living for stolen moments with her and falling into her plans for a marriage of convenience. Luke has his own reason to seek vengeance on Bria's cruel and abusive stepfather. As the love between Luke and Bria blossoms, and transforming Concord Plantation into its original beauty, a dangerous game of murder begins, threatening the lives of both Bria and Luke.<br />MORE THAN YOU WISHED will fulfill the most discerning romantic heart's desires. The touching love story, intriguing plot, and wonderful characters create a fascinating read. Jo Goodman masterfully recreates the Reconstruction with an eye toward historical accuracy and a heart toward love of the time and place. This is one of those marvelous romances that you won't want to put down! Indeed, MORE THAN YOU WISHED comes very highly recommended.	2001-05-12
2004087:US	49693975	R3DQOGQ06RGPJZ	1551665816	347027769	Expose (Mira)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Glamour isn't always as wonderful as it seems	Reporter Sally Harrington works for her small, hometown newspaper after returning to Castleford, Connecticut two years ago to care for her ill mother. When an assignment leads her to a nearby ghost town, Sally unexpectedly assists a man in medical crisis. It turns out that his wife Verity Rhodes is the glamorous editor of Expectations who subsequently offers Sally an opportunity of a lifetime. She's assigned to write an expose on Cassidy Cochran, president of the DBS network in New York. Soon Sally finds her professional life and personal life sharply split between the glitzy world of New York and the mundane world Castleford, which has drastically taken a turn a turn toward its own excitement.<br />Crazy Pete Sabatino, with his conspiracy theories, has long been the butt of jokes around town, but this time the truth may exist within the miasma of speculation and confusion. A fascinating character, Pete feeds his addiction to conspiracies and the new world order through a series of books, pamphlets, and videos ordered from post office boxes in Texas and California. Pete's enormous satellite dish and forty-foot short-wave radio tower also bring in an inordinate amount of information to feed his obsession. So when Pete claims that Sally's father's death twenty years ago wasn't an accident and is, in fact, linked to a recent mysterious death, she's not inclined to believe him. <br />A lead from Pete leads Sally into a murder investigation in Castleford even while she also writes the expose on Cassidy Cochran. Consequently, the work on both assignments sends her life hurtling out of control. Her &quot;chance of a lifetime&quot; assignment isn't what it seems, her love life endures unexpected upheaval, and her father's accidental death might have been murder.<br />The first person narrative allows the reader to participate in EXPOSE, enduring the turmoil and surprise right along with the heroine. Further, Sally's one of those wonderfully strong characters who still doesstupid things and gets carried away by opportunity gone off kilter. Her believable foibles, wonderful enthusiasm, and powerful presence make her a remarkably memorable character. Further, the entire cast of characters, including the dogs and Crazy Pete, make for a fantastic reading experience. And the surprising conclusion is wonderful! Highly recommended.	2001-05-10
2004616:US	49693975	RIA35841CINI9	1931207186	443378994	Clues To Love	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Recommended	When a guest of the King's Grant Hotel dies the first weekend that it's open, of course owner Kate Stanhope is thrown into a bit of a tizzy. After all, murder requires that the hotel be closed pending the investigation, meaning Kate risks loosing the hotel because she can't meet her financial obligations. Worse, it seems that the poison wasn't meant for her guest at all, but was meant for Kate herself. Fortunately, she has a loyal staff, a decent relationship with her stepchildren, and the interest of DCI Connor.<br />Detective Chief Inspector Nick Connor is assigned the case. Up for a promotion, solving this case would insure his goals. Although he suspects Kate in the beginning, evidence soon clears her of any wrongdoing. But Connor still has some conflicts of his own due to the intrusion of his neurotic ex-wife. But when another murder occurs, Kate begins to realize that the threat to her is very real, and even Connor may not be able to protect her.<br />CLUES TO LOVE has terrific potential for a lovely love story combined with suspense. Unfortunately, the novel suffers from inadequate editing. While it nicely contrasts the beautiful setting in the English countryside, with the ugliness of murder, it suffers in detail. The characters are not adequately rounded, and inconsistent details make for very uneven reading. Again, a good editor and a good polish by the author would have made this novel much stronger. Nevertheless, CLUES TO LOVE is a pleasant, light read and comes Recommended.	2001-05-10
2005207:US	49693975	RSUE8AMYLMVD3	082177140X	137621046	I Dream Of You (Zebra Contemporary Romance)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Magic in a bottle! Very highly recommended	When fiancé Trevor Edwards elopes with a petite, bubble headed French wine heiress, Madeline decides its time to get away from her troubled love live and troubled company. So she escapes to her grandmother's bed and breakfast in the Florida Keys. Then a bottle washes up on the shore, lending a whole new interpretation to the fairy tale about the genie in the bottle!<br />A thousand years in a bottle leaves the six-foot-two inch genie with an extreme desire to please. Baffled by Maggie's refusal of his magical solutions, the genie nicknamed Ben tries to fit into the twenty-first century. Indeed, Ben knows he's broken many rules of &quot;genie etiquette&quot; including staying out of his prison bottle, addressing his master by name, and thinking of his master in a sexually explicit manner. Yet his special magic may be just what Maddie needs to fight the industrial espionage that threatens her company, as well as the recent damage to her heart.<br />Tall, size fourteen Madeline Winston isn't the willow thin stereotypical heroine. Her offbeat generosity, quirky style, and intensity result in a memorable character. Ben is equally memorable in his need to please and sexy innocence. Makes me wish I could find my own magic bottle! Refreshing and entertaining, Judi McCoy's debut novel promises great things of this tremendously talented author. Highly recommended.	2001-05-09
2006422:US	49693975	R1WI5DH72EYKUI	1885373287	487824179	Manic Depression: How to Live While Loving a Manic Depressive	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Educational, informative, and filled with hope	Bipolar disorder, or manic depression, wrecks havoc with not only the life of the sufferer, but also with the family. One of the most difficult decisions a partner can make is to stay with someone who has bipolar disorder despite the mood swings, financial burden, and pain. For those of us who stay in the relationship, MANIC DEPRESSION: HOW TO LIVE WHILE LOVING A MAINIC DEPRESSIVE by Lynn Bradley is a godsend. <br />I first read this book when a loved one was diagnoses last summer. While I've subsequently read longer, more scholarly works filled with information, it is Bradley's voice I hear in the night when I try to make sense of the insanity that at times rules our lives. A year later, I still smile recalling the story of the man who was appalled to be diagnoses, asking her if she can believed it, describes herself as a manic depressive magnet. If there's someone around with this illness, they find her. Boy, do I know exactly what she means!<br />Bradley's message to live, not in spite of but with this illness is encouraging. It is possible to create a stable environment for the family. It is possible to get off the emotional roller coaster and live even as the patient continues to cycle. Educational, informative, and filled with hope, MANIC DEPRESSION: HOW TO LIVE WHILE LOVING A MAINIC DEPRESSIVE is a must read. Very highly recommended.	2001-05-08
2007517:US	49693975	R17PCVN1HB3FCI	0821770195	354925113	Charming Lily	Books	5	8	9	N	N	An absolutely charming story! Very highly recommended	Thirty years old, Lily Harper has been left at the altar twice by the same man! Lily  thinks that she should've known that Matt Starr would leave her at the altar again. All the signs had been there. She hadn't seen him in a month. He'd missed Christmas, barely called, and then put a million he put in her bank account for the kiss-off. <br />Suits and ties are for others, and although he's the CEO of Digitech, Matt has no qualms about looking like a vagabond even though he has millions tucked in various accounts. Matt can't wait to marry the love of his life. When he leaves the Digitech offices on New Year's Eve, Matt plans to drive to Natchez along with his dog Gracie. Ten years ago he left Lily at the altar, but on New Year's Day, he's finally going to place his ring on her finger. Or so he thinks. But when Matt stops at an ATM on the edge of town, the nefarious activities of three well-dressed thieves results in his being kidnapped, drugged, and missing on his wedding day. Again.<br />Best man and business partner Dennis finds it strange that no one picked him up at the airport. Closer to Matt than most brothers, Dennis staunchly believes Matt would never repeat his mistake of ten years ago. So when the beautiful Matt's dog mysteriously turns up nearly starved and obviously neglected, Dennis joins forces with Lily and best friend Sadie to find Matt.<br />As tangled as the plot becomes, the subplot becomes even more fun as a necklace comes to Lily's hands. The &quot;wish keeper&quot; brings about extraordinary events, lending an element of magic to an already entrancing tale. Indeed, Fern Michael's charming storytelling becomes an absolute delight, weaving just the right elements of magic to create a memorable tale of love. The depth of characterizations, not only in the main characters but also the secondary characters and even the animals, results in remarkable novel that you won't be able to put down. CHARMING LILY is very highly recommended!	2001-05-07
2007818:US	49693975	R2VP0HW7PSFLMM	1551665816	347027769	Expose (Mira)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Glamour isn't always as wonderful as it seems	Reporter Sally Harrington works for her small, hometown newspaper after returning to Castleford, Connecticut two years ago to care for her ill mother. When an assignment leads her to a nearby ghost town, Sally unexpectedly assists a man in medical crisis. It turns out that his wife Verity Rhodes is the glamorous editor of Expectations who subsequently offers Sally an opportunity of a lifetime. She's assigned to write an expose on Cassidy Cochran, president of the DBS network in New York. Soon Sally finds her professional life and personal life sharply split between the glitzy world of New York and the mundane world Castleford, which has drastically taken a turn a turn toward its own excitement.<br />Crazy Pete Sabatino, with his conspiracy theories, has long been the butt of jokes around town, but this time the truth may exist within the miasma of speculation and confusion. A fascinating character, Pete feeds his addiction to conspiracies and the new world order through a series of books, pamphlets, and videos ordered from post office boxes in Texas and California. Pete's enormous satellite dish and forty-foot short-wave radio tower also bring in an inordinate amount of information to feed his obsession. So when Pete claims that Sally's father's death twenty years ago wasn't an accident and is, in fact, linked to a recent mysterious death, she's not inclined to believe him. <br />A lead from Pete leads Sally into a murder investigation in Castleford even while she also writes the expose on Cassidy Cochran. Consequently, the work on both assignments sends her life hurtling out of control. Her &quot;chance of a lifetime&quot; assignment isn't what it seems, her love life endures unexpected upheaval, and her father's accidental death might have been murder.<br />The first person narrative allows the reader to participate in EXPOSE, enduring the turmoil and surprise right along with the heroine. Further, Sally's one of those wonderfully strong characters who still doesstupid things and gets carried away by opportunity gone off kilter. Her believable foibles, wonderful enthusiasm, and powerful presence make her a remarkably memorable character. Further, the entire cast of characters, including the dogs and Crazy Pete, make for a fantastic reading experience. And the surprising conclusion is wonderful! Highly recommended.	2001-05-07
2008118:US	49693975	R2GNO6U3QOIOO6	0451202295	878904165	Lords of Danger: Bewitched	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A great love story -- Highly recommended	Heather Cullman creates an imaginative, romantic tale that breaks the most common plot lines in BETWITCHED. Rather than relying on an action driven plot, a miscommunication, or lust, Cullman presents a heart touching tale of friendship that evolves into love, thereby deeply touching the reader's emotions.<br />Michael Dane, Duke of Sherrington and once a favorite member of the ton, now lives sequestered in a gloomy and dismal former abbey surrounded by fierce gargoyles and ominous noises. Members of society believe he is mad because he suffered humiliating seizures in their highbrow presence. After several years of isolation, Michael's grandmother and her best friend determine to bring happiness into his life again. They threaten the loss of his dukedom and banishment to an institution if he refuses a marriage of convenience.<br />Freshly arrived from Boston, Emily Merriman's father's dying wish was to see her married. A terrible curse has already resulted in the breaking of three engagements, leaving Emily determined to remain forever single. Despite Emily's vow to remain single, however, her grandmother complies with her deceased son's wish, and arranges the marriage to Michael. After meeting Michael and assuming that he's only marrying her for an heir, Emily reluctantly agrees because she wants children. Emily fears falling in love with her husband, however, for the curse promises to make her &quot;a plague to any man she loves.&quot; She only believes Michael will be safe from the curse because their marriage is not meant to be a love match.<br />Michael differs from any many Emily has ever known because he listens, really listens, to her. His refreshing, careful attention values her intellect rather than pretending to hang onto her worlds with banal pleasantries. Michael was once rather shallow, as he wanted nothing more than momentary pleasure and to keep up with the vapid ton. His rejection from society has allowed him introflection. Emily's presence inspiresa desire different from that which he's known while a member of the ton. There he freely partook of the sexual favors of the flirtatious and daring. Emily touches not just his libido, but also his heart. She makes Michael want to share once again in the joy of living, in simple games and pleasures, in laughter and her vivaciousness. Indeed, just the sight of Emily stirs sensual feelings that Michael hasn't felt in several years. Sadly, his treatments have insured that he cannot perform any longer. And frustration that he can no longer perform occasionally leads to abominable behavior toward Emily. Consequently, their wedding day and subsequent time together lacks the promise and joy to which its entitled. Instead, their wedding day only seems to be the beginning of a lifetime of broken dreams and emptiness.<br />Lovely, impertinent Emily has a marvelous hobby that mirrors her flights of imagination. She creates kites; elaborate affairs complete with drawings of angels and details of feathers. Flying kites gives her the opportunity to think and a way to deal with difficult emotions. Just because she had not expected to find love in this match does not mean that she did not expect to be wanted. Although their marriage begins with great difficulty, soon Emily's good-natured enthusiasm for life affects Michael. When Emily discovers the truth about Michael's epileptic-like fits and witnesses the results of his &quot;cures,&quot; she puts her practical nursing knowledge to work, bringing him tremendous relief. Michael becomes devoted to Emily and comes to treasure her friendship. Slowly their easy friendship develops into a love that has the potential to destroy them both. <br />BEWITCHED touches all the right romantic elements for a great love story. Although Michael initially presents himself to be a self-pitying jerk, sympathy builds for his character as the story progresses. Michael's self-centeredness soon gives way to growth under Emily's spell. The progression ofthe plot allows tremendous opportunity for appreciation and growth, making him a powerful and entrancing character. Emily's vivacious love for life sees beyond Michael's wasted body and angry facade to the kind, and nurtures the vulnerable man beneath. Her kindness and love are the catalyst that pulls Michael out of his destructive cycle. Their love is strong, true, and beautifully portrayed. Further, rather than allowing the tiresome plot device of miscommunication divide these characters, they always talk things through, bearing their vulnerabilities and risking embarrassment and hurt. The result is a convincing plot filled with genuine love.<br />Unfortunately, several pesky details hold BEWITCHED back from its potential. A fascinating secondary character named Rebecca gives Emily the encouragement and magical knowledge to solve many troubles. Yet Rebecca's own history remains dismally shadowed, only revealing that this daughter of a high-ranking family of the ton has magical powers and is the &quot;go-between&quot; between the fairy realm and the human realm. But no concrete reason for her presence on the moors is clearly stated, only hinted; yet her role is pivotal to the story. Although hints suggest that a sequel starring Rebecca may be forthcoming, more information now would make the novel more plausible for the critical reader. Nevertheless, BEWITCHED is an enchanting novel that comes highly recommended.	2001-05-07
2008697:US	49693975	R377U3REA1W8PP	0821769995	595851703	Racing To Ruin (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Capturing a rake's heart has never been so much fun!	Sabrina Bennett refuses to allow her abusive grandfather dictate her future; rather, she plans her own ruin so that she might retire to the country where she may follow her intellectual interests. With her sister's aid, Sabrina decides upon the notorious rake Hunter Lancaster, Earl of Greystone to be the means to her ruin. Certainly he won't refuse her request.<br />Hunter can't help comparing the impetuous Sabrina to his beloved sister because of her innocent naiveté. Like Julia, Sabrina's youth and inexperience leads her to believe in the best of people, even to her own detriment. However, that shared innocence prevents him from accepting Sabrina's outlandish offer. Hunter finds himself wildly attracted to the young minx, perhaps because she offers such marvelous respite from his otherwise jaded existence. Soon, much to his own surprise, Hunter finds himself protecting Sabrina, rather than ruining her. Indeed, soon he finds himself going to great lengths to protect her, even at the risk of his beloved freedom.<br />These characters are often at cross-purposes, saying one thing and meaning another, and then suddenly so directly honest as to be touching. While they are charming, attractive characters, their own deceptions that end in misunderstandings, can leave the reader quite frustrated. Indeed, their dishonesty regarding their emotions toward one another can be quite infuriating. Nevertheless, the dark mystery that binds the plot of the story, as well as the charming romance that builds between the hero and heroine, makes RACING TO RUIN a very pleasant read. Recommended.	2001-05-06
2009027:US	49693975	R19TBG9B9STIG1	0821770160	180417169	The Mystery Kiss (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Smartly original! Highly recommended	A Romantic Times Top Pick, THE MYSTERY KISS by Judith A. Landsdowne recreates the colorful, class bound society of the regency with humor and grace. Breaking the physical stereotypes of perfection, THE MYSTERIOUS KISS brings together a widow and a dashing earl. Fleur Marston has lovely long hair, but her longish nose and slightly jutting chin make her look rather ordinary, if not plain. Atticus Charles Howard, also known as the Spectre, is a very tall, very slender man with decidedly big ears. Both characters are also a bit older than typical heroes and heroines, giving them a depth of characterization and realism that is surprisingly refreshing.<br />Memories of her late husband's physical and mental abuse still haunt Fleur's sleep, even though Marston has been dead for more than a year. Despite her ill treatment at the hands of her husband and London society, Fleur plans to take her stepdaughter Althea to London for the season, introducing her to a &quot;most intriguing and delightful sort of world.&quot; By chance, she encounters Atticus Charles Howard, the Earl of Hartshire, along the way. <br />London society does not tolerate those who wish to ingratiate themselves in their midst. Fleur, the daughter of a shipbuilder, knows very well the rude remarks, snide comments, and cruel gossip. Nevertheless, she risks her dignity, despite disparaging comments comparing her to an &quot;encroaching mushroom&quot;, to provide Althea a coming out. Little does Fleur suspect that someone watches, admiring her strength of spirit, until a few whispers at the appropriate moments help her to secure just the right tone to hush the tongue wagers thereby substitute admiration for the accustomed viciousness. <br />A widower with a mysterious and exciting past, Atticus confidently tangles with spies and radicals seeking to destroy the crown even as he lacks the same confidence in his personal life. The chance meeting with Fleur captures his imagination, and when he arrives in London after a four year absence, Atticus can't resist inquiring about her. Soon he seems to magically appear at just the moments Fleur most needs encouragement, whether it be in person, or through illusion and the appellation &quot;Montague&quot;. Though Fleur's heart and desire becomes torn between the two, it only takes a single magical kiss to convince Atticus of his growing feeling for Fleur. Yet he fears trying to court her, for Atticus can't imagine her wanting such a lump as him.<br />I admit to being captivating by the myriad details that make THE MYSTERY KISS so extraordinary. The homeopathic cure for motion sickness, the design of Fleur's riding habit, even the comparison of Fleur to a mushroom create a truly delightful tale. It's refreshing to read a novel of the regency not built on extreme youth and misunderstandings; thereby replacing the predictable and ordinary plot with one that's sharply invigorating. And Henry, the tickler dormouse who loves Atticus' pockets, makes an original pet. Unfortunately, there are a few details that do undercut the strength of THE MYSTERY KISS. Language choices do not always feel appropriate especially the not infrequent use of &quot;ain't&quot;. Further, the subplots, while intriguing, need further exploration. Nevertheless, THE MYSTERY KISS is delightful, and comes highly recommended.	2001-05-06
2009091:US	49693975	R1MT4EB4C69Q32	0553567772	295997143	Prince of Shadows	Books	5	4	5	N	N	I'm a new fan! Highly recommended	Playing in the woods together and enjoying long summer days, Alexandra Warrington and Kieran Holt knew each other as children. Alex knew her playmate better as Shadow, the black wolf who dared to play with a ten-year-old girl. Unfortunately, a poacher kills Kieran's parents, leaving the young boy alone when Alex must leave the woods of her grandparent's home to return to her parents. <br />Alex returns to the Minnesota woods as wolf researcher years later. Likewise, Kieran cannot ignore the call of his past and returns to the woods remembering the young girl's promise of help. A werewolf, Kieran has wandered the lands for five years alone. <br />Alex wakes one morning to find a complete stranger in her bed, despite the long dormant sensual and erotic pleasure, she refuses to let a man into her heart or her bed. The death of her mother years ago, the tragic accident that left her face permanently scarred, her father's rejection and the breakup with her fiancé have insured that Alex never intends to let anyone close to her but her beloved wolves. When a mysterious murder from five years previous ties to another death shortly after her arrival, Alex finds herself committed to helping Kieran at all costs. <br />Tinges of mysticism, and liberal doses of the paranormal make PRINCE OF SHADOWS an unusual and fascinating read. As the characters develop, I couldn't help being drawn into the tale and empathizing with the challenges each character must face. With an intensity and passion seldom matched, PRINCE OF SHADOWS.	2001-05-06
2010569:US	49693975	R104LMXNA3G7NP	0373259328	598819659	Seductive Fantasy (Fantasies Inc.)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Marvelous kick-off to this miniseries!	In Harlequin Temptation's tantalizing miniseries Fantasies, Inc., Merrilee Schaefer-Weston lives vicariously through the happiness of others. For a hefty fee, she brings guests to Fantasies, Inc, a cluster of four, lush, paradise resorts off the Florida Keys. A stickler about client confidentiality, Merrilee offers people's deepest, most private secrets and desires. At the end of their fantasy, guests have a choice of walking away and continuing as they were before, or accepting a risk that changes their lives. The first novel of this miniseries by Janelle Denison is named for the island SEDUCTIVE FANTASY. <br />Jackson Witt hired Fred Hobson as part of his design team for his company, Extreme Software. Now he believes that Fred had been a plant to steal valuable technology that Jackson had spent years perfecting. When Fred left Extreme Software, he returned to his previous position at Gametek owned by Alexis Baylor. Alexis had spent four years perfecting a game for her company, but lacked the specific proprietary code to make the game run &quot;smoother, faster, and the graphics more vibrant and real.&quot; When Jackson sees the latest issue of Business Wire with the announcement of Gametek's technology, he realizes that his code had been pirated and holds Alexis personally responsible.<br />Jackson took the business loss personally. In addition to the lawsuit he plans, Jackson plans to exact a personal revenge as well. He's fed up with women who always want something from him, from his mother to the women he dates. When a little investigation provides information on Alexis' trip to Seductive Fantasy, Jackson quickly fills out the paper work, pays the fee, and steps into a fantasy role of his own. Once he ensnares Alexis' heart, he plans to walk away. <br />Alexis' own goals for her fantasy vacation are equally well defined. Despairing of marriage and having children the traditional way, she wants fantastic sex with a sexy man, no-strings-attached, and to return home pregnant with the child she's dreamed of for years. For a week, on Seductive Island, however, she intends to indulge in the luxury of being romantically pursued. And from the first moment she looks into Jackson's compelling eyes, she's mesmerized. And while she has the potential to transform herself to a sensual beauty, albeit unrealized, her allure isn't lost on Jackson.<br />Sometimes using a fantasy to achieve satisfaction can backfire! As Jackson learns, seductive revenge can result in a personal cost as well. This hot beginning to the Fantasy, Inc. miniseries begins with a bang. Jackson should have listened to his little twinges of consciousness, but all's well that ends well! And his twinges are a heck of a lot of fun, too. This carefree, seductive novel will have you up past bedtime and comes Very highly recommended. The fantasy continues with SECRET FANTASY by Carly Phillips available June, 2001.	2001-05-04
2012518:US	49693975	R18B0ATPNUF7YI	1855885999	552374463	A Handbook for Light Workers	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Very highly recommended	Having recently undergone a physical/spiritual/emotional crisis, I have found it necessary to almost &quot;relearn&quot; the basics of grounding, shielding, etc. As my body has withdrawn from prescription drugs, I first experienced buffering from the world, and then complete exposure. I'm not sure which was worse! <br />Despite several years of training in meditation and related techniques, my experience has made me feel as though I've forgotten everything I ever learned. I needed something to help kick start those skills again. A HANDBOOK FOR LIGHT WORKERS has been on my shelf for several years, and seemed to leap into my hands several weeks ago. <br />With excellent meditation for the New Age/Old Religion student, A HANDBOOK FOR LIGHT WORKERS begins with the basics, building on those acquired skills to allow the student come into balance and alignment with self, nature, and more. Regardless of the path you are working, this is a must read for the novice student as well as the advanced. A HANDBOOK FOR LIGHT WORKERS includes seventy meditations in addition to vital information about each step of meditations. Topics also include auras, chakras, and etheric bodies. <br />While not every light worker will agree with every &quot;fact&quot; presented, the author's opinions are frequently enlightening, and will certainly encourage individual thought. What a relief to find all the basics, and more, all in one source. Sure makes my need to relearn much easier. Very highly recommended. <br />Bright Blessings, Weaver	2001-05-03
2013211:US	49693975	R3E4OIW3XSLYXU	0373709846	944540588	Who Is Emerald Monday? Return to East Texas (Harlequin Superromance No. 984)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Highly recommended	Emerald Monday's custodian Mom Fran had often told the story of her discovery. Fran's best friend Joleen Berber had chanced upon Emmy at the back of an antique booth at Monday Trade Days, &quot;Left like some garage sale item to be sold or traded.&quot; The infant was released from social services into Fran's care. Emmy adored her two foster brothers, Jed and Will. Their best friend Riley Gray Wolf had also stolen her heart, and when she was old enough, her kisses. Those years in Mom Fran's home had been the best years she'd ever known. They ended tragically, when Emmy was thirteen and Mom Fran left for work one day and never came home. Social Services abruptly jerked Emmy from school and the only home she'd ever known to dump her with strangers in Houston. After running away many times, the heartbroken Emily gave up on her foster brothers ever finding her.<br />Emmy holds an unrelenting fear of marrying and having children because of the gaps in her ancestry. She fears what lurks in her genes that could emerge in the next generation. Even simple things like moving to a new town and visiting a new doctor for the first time proves agonizing, as she must leave all those empty space in the family history section. As Emmy happens to read an old newspaper, thinking about the next place to move, she finds an article about her beloved Mom Fran. Apparently an archeologist searching for Indian relics found bones identified as Mom Fran's. Emmy heads back to Uncertain, the name the town aptly describing her past, present, and future.<br />Emmy almost immediately runs into Riley when she returns to Uncertain. Neither of them had been able to &quot;forget the one that got away.&quot; Indeed, Riley fills every fantasy of what Emmy envisioned for him as an adult. His family descends from the Caddo Indians, but Riley has rejected both his family and his heritage following the death of his wife. His beautiful three-year-old daughter Alanna has never known any family but her father.As Emmy struggles to find her birth family, Riley longs to forget his. As dart playing and young Alanna draw Emma and Riley together again, the search for and the rejection of family becomes the driving tone behind their relationship.<br />Roz Denny Fox has clearly established her talent for well-written contemporary romances and fans will find her newest release, WHO IS EMERALD MONDAY?, yet another success. In the midst of discord and tension, a tender love story unfolds, as the clever plot heightens the already tense situation and keeps the suspense building. In addition to writing a terrific story, It's evident the author has intimate knowledge when it comes to exploring one's identity. The story line is interesting as it delves into issues of identity as well as providing readers with a strong romance. I admit to having a high regard for the beautiful Emily Monday with her rainbow tatoo, and to building great sympathy with her issues of identity as the book progresses. Highly recommended.	2001-05-02
2013294:US	49693975	R3G5MRRSGJLPDT	0373709854	940028225	The Listener: The Guardians (Harlequin Superromance No. 985)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Multifaceted characters and fierce conflict	SWAT countersniper Ryan Lukas is on a path of self-destruction when DR. Maria Worley is assigned as his psychiatrist. Eighteen months ago his wife Ginny died unexpectedly, leaving Ryan bereft. Lucas denies his need for professional help, infuriated to be assigned to a desk job while Maria's scheduled to counsel him. Worse, now when he tries to conjure Ginny's face, he unexpectedly sees Maria instead.<br />Maria quickly grows impatient with her responses to Lukas, once even humorously criticizing for acting like a woman. Indeed, she womanly responses are out of line for patient, but Lukas refuses to accept her as a doctor. As Maria's son becomes dangerously involved with the wrong crowd, Lukas steps in to be the male influence her son needs.<br />My hat is off to Kay David, who skirts the professional issues raised in THE LISTEN with grace and aplomb. By casting the hero and heroine into situations that encourage friendship, not only does the plot move smartly along, but also the ethical issues gracefully resolve themselves. Further, David writes quite deftly of teenage issues and a mother's concerns, thereby firmly grounding the plot in reality. The insider's view of a SWAT team is fascinating, providing a remarkably fresh background. THE LISTENER is very highly recommended.	2001-05-02
2013459:US	49693975	R2WNANSSO933BL	0373709862	416199647	Back in Kansas (Harlequin Superromance No.  986)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Winner of WordWeaving.com Award of Excelence	Identity crises plague both Claudine St. James and Robert Lester, though for entirely different reasons. Claudie comes from a broken home and a life of prostitution. Bo was born with a silver spoon in his mouth and a father who never deigned to notice him. As they struggle to connect the pieces of their past into a meaningful present, both Claudie and Bo must learn self-acceptance and forgiveness.<br />Claudie's been of the streets for seven months, starting a halfway house for prostitutes and using her experience to help others. But she can't forget the family she left behind, especially the youngest sister she practically raised. Fearing that at seventeen her sister may become her stepfather next victim, Claudie heads to Kansas to confront her past.<br />Bo follows Claudie, realizing the danger in her quest. Even as Claudie believes she can't share her used and damaged body with this remarkable man, he's equally determined to love her and give her a future. Claudie's skittishness and fears are portrayed compassionately and realistically, making her an extraordinarily sympathetic character without undermining her strength. Bo's own issues with her father prevent him from becoming &quot;too perfect,&quot; and giving him sufficient flaws to be perfectly human. Indeed, Bo's both wonderfully tender and self honest, making him perfect for Claudie.<br />Debra Salonen's daring choice of a heroine brings gritty realism and compassion to BACK IN KANSAS. Salonen writes with a deep understanding of how good girls go wrong, and how a few can still make their lives right. BACK IN KANSAS also presents a flawed hero, providing the novel with dynamic characters guaranteed to win the reader's heart. Very highly recommended.	2001-05-02
2013775:US	49693975	R3RUSSBPCXGH75	0373709870	657037080	Dear Maggie (Harlequin Superromance No. 987)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Another dazzling hit! -- Very highly recommended	Maggie Russell is the ideal heroine, maintaining her vulnerability even as she presents herself as strong, direct, spunky and tenderhearted. Although she's left behind the difficult teen years of acne and embarrassment over her red hair, Maggie's professional self-confidence masks the insecurities of her personal life. Maggie rates men by their F.P., father potential, because she's the single parent of three-year-old Zach, the love of her life. A police reporter, Maggie works the night shift to have more time to spend with Zach. Maggie had worked at a tabloid to support her previous husband while he was in school, so she hopes that working at the Sacramento paper will lead to real journalistic opportunities, even a front page byline someday. <br />Severely handicapped on Maggie's F.P. meter, sexy Nick Sorenson works at the same Sacramento paper as Maggie. His undercover position as photographer allows him to accompany her on her night shift work, easily concealing his real motives as an undercover FBI agent. Maggie wants a relationship with a man that is safe, and that will lead to permanence. Nothing about Nick whispers permanence. Despite her best intentions, however, Maggie can't deny that Nick makes her libido skyrocket. In fact, everything about him shouts, &quot;live for the moment.&quot; Little does she suspect that Nick want to protect her from becoming the next victim of a heinous serial killer. Further, Maggie doesn't have a clue that her new email pal is actually Nick's alter ego (Great! Now he's competing against himself.), and that the deception could save her life.<br />Rising star Brenda Novak pens another dazzling hit with DEAR MAGGIE. Told with her characteristic beguiling style, Novak daringly weaves intrigue and danger around this romantic plot to create a memorable tale. Her carefully crafted, rounded characterizations, and carefully researched descriptions of crime reporting will hold the reader's attention rapt. DEAR MAGGIe not only has the warmth and emotion Novak's fans have come to expect, but delivers a fresh tale of danger and intrigue that will undoubtedly draw a whole new audience to this remarkable novel. Very highly recommended.	2001-05-02
2015138:US	49693975	R16L60Z5YREI9S	0373259301	911677606	Way With Women (Mail Order Men)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Steamy -- Recommended	The Mail Order Men miniseries continues this month with A WAY WITH WOMEN by Jule McBride. When Harper Moody, the postmistress of Pine Hills, interferes with the letters responding to Macon McCann's add in Texas Men, she sets into motion life changing events.<br />Harper daringly steams open Macon's letters and answers them herself. She figures she's entitled since she's the mother of his child, even if he doesn't know it. When she'd gone to tell Macon of her pregnancy with Christopher, she'd found him with someone else. So she'd married the pharmacists and never looked back. Now Harper's widowed, and she still hurts over the fact that Macon had left town all those years ago and never looked back.<br />When no one answered his ad, Macon should have gotten suspicious. A chance glance at Harper's desk while she was in the restroom proves what's happened to all of Macon's ad responses. And since his father won't hand over control of the ranch until he gets married, Macon doesn't have a lot of time for Haper's games. So he goes to her house to confront her over the letters, and finds himself making love to her instead. Shortly thereafter, Christopher announces that Macon's his father.<br />I find it refreshing that not only does the teen son know the truth of his parentage, if his mother isn't aware of his knowledge, and informs his father himself! Such highly charged emotional scenes of A WAY WITH WOMEN add to its fun and quick moving plot. The steamy love making and warm characters make for a charming tale, though I did find myself a bit impatient at times with Macon's reputation with women. Recommended.	2001-05-01
2015194:US	49693975	RZP1ZMKB73QMJ	0373243979	131255849	Race To The Altar	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A winner -- sort of -- Recommended	Traditional NASCAR driver Rick Castles does not believe women belong at the racing track unless its in the stands. Certainly not in the pits, and certainly not working Public Relations, especially when that woman is as attractive as Liz Mallory. So Rick embarks upon a plan to rid himself of Liz's very distracting influence, only to have it backfire.<br />Liz has learned her lesson about men. So when Rick is charming and engaging to everyone except her, she wishes she could ignore his strong, dynamic, rugged personality that seemed to conceal a tender, sensual side. As Rick sets her up to fail. Liz continually stays one step ahead, coming up smelling like roses rather than boiling in hot water.<br />While the plot and characters can at times be quite engaging, I found myself impatient through the first half of the book with Rick's archaic attitudes which make him look like a testosterone laden, small town hick from fifty years ago. And when Liz complains at one point that she broke two fingernails, I nearly threw the book across the room. Perseverance does pay off, however, as the plot moves smartly along an Liz outfoxes Rick's plans to undermine her work abilities. RACE TO THE ALTAR does provide a nice finish, however, coming rcommended.	2001-05-01
2015196:US	49693975	R1IHNKPBWL3LRY	0373243979	131255849	Race To The Altar	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A winner -- sort of -- Recommended	Traditional NASCAR driver Rick Castles does not believe women belong at the racing track unless its in the stands. Certainly not in the pits, and certainly not working Public Relations, especially when that woman is as attractive as Liz Mallory. So Rick embarks upon a plan to rid himself of Liz's very distracting influence, only to have it backfire.<br />Liz has learned her lesson about men. So when Rick is charming and engaging to everyone except her, she wishes she could ignore his strong, dynamic, rugged personality that seemed to conceal a tender, sensual side. As Rick sets her up to fail, Liz continually stays one step ahead, coming up smelling like roses rather than steeping in boiling in hot water.<br />While the plot and characters can at times be quite engaging, I found myself impatient through the first half of the book with Rick's archaic attitudes which make him look like a testosterone laden, small town hick from fifty years ago. And when Liz complains at one point that she broke two fingernails, I nearly threw the book across the room. Perseverance does pay off, however, as the plot moves smartly along and Liz outfoxes Rick's plans to undermine her work abilities. RACE TO THE ALTAR does provide a nice finish, however, coming recommended.	2001-05-01
2015490:US	49693975	R2CTHDN86LR2TQ	0373271409	749019234	Way We Wed (A Year Of Loving Dangerously) (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Recommended	THE WAY WE WED is a clear demonstration of &quot;don't judge the book by the cover.&quot; The impression created by the cover is a pubescent boy. But the description of the book hooked me anyway, and led me to buy the book anyway. Again, don't judge the book by its cover, including the back cover, because when I finished the book I kept wondering if the editor that wrote the blurb read the same book I did. Perhaps because the Year of Loving Dangerously plot that binds the series does not advance. This is an entirely character driven romance.<br />Jeff Kirby is at the SPEAR owned and operated Condor Mountain Resort and Spa in California when he receives word that his wife and SPEAR agent, Tish Buckner, is in serious condition in a New York hospital. Tish was nearly fatally injured in a bomb blast as tried to assist in the capture the agency's arch-nemesis, Simon. As Jeff makes his way to the airport and across the country, to sit at his beloved wife's bedside, as she lays comatose, the novel progresses in a series of flashbacks over the previous year.<br />After a traumatic experience (as detailed in Mission: Irresistible), Jeff goes to Red Rock Ranch in Arizona, another SPEAR owned facility, to recuperate. The twenty-four year old is working to complete his medical residency, planning to then join SPEAR as a full-time medevac specialist. At Red Rock Ranch, Jeff meets Tish and falls totally in love. Despite Tish's reticence, Jeff brings the love-shy Tish to his way of thinking and feeling. Jeff's passion and commitment to Tish make the story delightful, demonstrating a youth vigor and faith.<br />As the novel progresses, the reader's privy to Jeff's reflection of their relationship, how they ended up secretly married, and what went wrong between the two of them. The otherwise great story, however, is marred by the conclusion. The very difficulties that split Jeff and Tish through the year have not been resolved, and I'm terribly disappointed with Tish's career decision (last sentence of the book). This powerful, strong woman seems terribly weakened by her choices. Further, for readers troubled by age differences, this issue doesn't feel fully explored. I share a considerable age difference in my own relationship, and while these obstacles are not insurmountable, they are considerable, especially if the woman as the older character and is approaching forty. Recommended.	2001-04-30
2016529:US	49693975	R19C2ATVQHA1R4	0373259298	167239806	Sex Appeal (Blaze)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Outrageous! Very highly recommended	When Brent Bramwell peruses his new strip of eclectic shops, one named SEX APPEAL catches his attention. Well, actually, the body in the sweatshirt hanging new blinds revealing curvy hips, slim thighs, and luscious breasts catches his attention. As he approaches to catch a glimpse of the face accompanying the sexy body, a hard fall on the icy sidewalk serves as his introduction to Shadow Callahan.<br />Shadow explains she's thrilled to meet Brent, and that he's just what she's looking for--for a contest called &quot;Love and Laughter.&quot; Each storeowner must find ten men who fit the description of what single women are looking for. Despite Brent's obvious need to control all situations, he's intrigued with Shadow's bold manner. Clearly not interested in a one-night stand, Shadow casts a spell over Brent, leaving him fascinated. Brent realizes that he's been missing out on fun, and Shadow's just the one to fill his need.<br />The irrepressible Shadow is one of the most engaging, humorous and outrageous characters I have had the pleasure to encounter. Shadow not only to brashly survives the obligatory repressed and staid future mother-in-law, and outwits the money grubbing ex-fiancé, but she manages to remain charmingly vulnerable. Lively, smiling and quick to forgive, Shadow lives life in the dim recesses of security, but in her own indomitable and outrageous style. <br />Lori Foster is not only on target, but also scores a bulls-eye in her sexy romp, SEX APPEAL. The characters are vividly realistic, the sex scenes sizzle, and the plot rocks. Impossible to put down, time flies when immersed in this in this riveting story. With her sensuous writing style, Foster's SEX APPEAL is very highly recommended.	2001-04-30
2018151:US	49693975	RAN8KRJ1LAVD4	0373243987	861549947	Lt. Kent: Lone Wolf	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Gargoyles, children, and the healing power of love	When journalist Angie Rose hikes up the mountain her objective is clear. She can't bring herself to visit Kent's orphanage to write a story about the children. In an effort to save her job, she'll seek audience with the reclusive Jason Kent himself, hopefully appeasing her editor with the story of the remarkable man who funds the orphanage. But when he opens door in the blinding snowstorm, inviting her in much against his will, Jason's shocking physical appearance and infirmity quickly changes her mind. She can't destroy the wall of privacy that protects this incredible man.<br />Lt. Jason Kent lives secluded in an 800-year-old gothic mansion, brought stone by stone from Germany. However, the gargoyles, which guard its turrets, can't keep the pain the world offers Jason at bay. A mission gone wrong has forever changed his physical appearance and abilities. Now he only interacts with the world through the computers in his study and the occasional visit of one of the children from his nearby orphanage. <br />The recluse had started his orphanage as an extension of a gag. He'd risked everything once to save a child from certain starvation, smuggling her into the United States. He had all kinds of money and nothing to do with it, so he started an orphanage for hard to place children in memory of that first child he'd rescued. But the terrible scars resulting from his last mission keeps him from the halls of the orphanage, and from the hugs of the grateful children.<br />Angie understands the need to hide. She lives with her own deep-set fears; that is, if she risks her heart with Jason he will find her wanting. She can't stand for him to look at her with that look of pity and disappointment that she'd seen in her previous fiancé's eyes after the drunk driver came around the curve at her on the wrong side of the road. Sure, Stephen had said all the right things, but he had also left her standing at the altar. She absolutely believes that Jason will want more, and certainly deserves more, than she can possibly give.<br />Talented author Judith Lyons has a marvelous gift of characterization. Even as she exposes the deep-set emotional vulnerability of her characters, Lyons doesn't allow them to wallow in self-pity, but forces them to confront their weaknesses and grow. The well-crafted plot, unique setting, and intrusion of a whimsical child weave together in an exhilarating plot. Reflecting both the tragedy and the triumphs of life and love, SOMETHING TO TALK ABOUT comes highly recommended.	2001-04-28
2018921:US	49693975	R2L8M31FBR3X8H	1930364547	734416280	Blackberry Summer	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wow! Remorable! Very highly recommended	BLACKBERRY SUMMER by Gail Ylitalo is a haunting coming of age story that both fascinates and repels; yet I couldn't put it down till the end. During the days I read this novel, I found myself thinking back to it at odd moments, making me reflect, question, and meditate upon the difficulties of growing up. Indeed, BLACKBERRY SUMMER is of those rare, powerful novels that I will never be able to quite forget.<br />The summer of 1965 forever changes the lives of three children, brought together by their common family difficulties. Cousins Carol Lynn and Tom spend the summer on their grandmother's sixty-acre farm. While trespassing at a nearby pond, they meet Clovie, a child only a couple of years older, but wise beyond her years with life experience. At Clovie's request, Carol Lynn undertakes to teach her to read. <br />Daily they meet at the pond, as Clovie learns to read and write, hungry for a life away from her destitute, horribly abusive conditions. Bruised, filthy, sexually abused, Clovie is a pitiful waif who's burgeoning knowledge brings her hope. Eventually, Carol Lynn takes Clovie to the library, to receive her own library card, for the days when Carol Lynn must return to the city. When Clovie's father discovers the girls on the road back from the library, danger and disaster await. <br />When the truth is know, neither Carol Lynn or her cousin Tom will retain even a remnant of their childhood innocence. But within that lost innocence is also beauty. Carol Lynn comes to understand the relationship between blacks and whites in her small town. And when she recognizes the strong feelings between her grandmother, and the black man who cares for her property, Carol Lynn exhibits the same loving tolerance and understanding toward that relationship that she exhibited toward Clovie. <br />Like the wild blackberries of my childhood summers, I found BLACKBERRY SUMMER bittersweet. And as I couldn't stop eating the blackberries in my grandmother's backyard, no matter thescratches, I couldn't stop reading this novel. My teenage son also read this book for review purposes, finding it compelling and thought provoking. We both were impressed with Gail's straightforward handling of violence and abuse, all the while tempering the negative with open-mindedness and compassion.	2001-04-27
2019053:US	49693975	R3B94BAKDPLIGX	0373243960	733487610	Something To Talk About (The Windraven Legacy) (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	When the raven caws before dawn, strange things happen	following the caw of the ravens. She never wants to deal with passion and emotion again -- the cost has been too high. Yet Kate dislikes her constant suspicion and inability to trust people. She finds herself forever questioning other people's motives and actions, and yet she hates feeling this way because it was how she spent the last years of her marriage. So when her cousin refers detective Jess Fargo to her because she has an apartment for rent, Kate allows them to stay, even against her better judgement. Kate vows to not allow the man and his ten-year-old son become a part of her life. His presence makes her long for the family she's lost and to believe in love between men and women. Somehow, Jess and his son represent all the bright hope she had once held.<br />Here, in the isolated Wind River Wyoming, detective Jess Fargo comes to feel a sense of family, for the first time in his life. Filled with regret, Jess wishes he could go back and get to know his son all over again. He wishes he knew what happened to his beloved sister Bunny that caused her death here. He mourns the tragedy of his childhood, his mother who died of pneumonia and his cruel alcoholic father. He wants to know why Bunny never kept her promise to send for him, to rescue him from the hell that constituted his young life. His mother had called it heartsick -- the longing for things he cannot have. <br />Living so close to Kate adds a new dimension to feeling heartsick. A cop with a bum leg, Jess believes that he has nothing to offer any woman. Jess has no future here. He knows that at the end of the month he'll be gone, when he resolves his sister Bunny's death. Yet a sense of mystery surrounds Kate, and Jess wants to know what it is. Something to do with her husband's suicide and the loss of a child. Despite his misgivings, Jess can't seem to stay away from the beautiful widow and her secrets. <br />Author Laurie Paige has a wonderful gift of characterization. As she weaves a tale of surprising depth, with vivid detailing that keeps the reader involved in the character's tragedies and wish for family. Even as she exposes the disillusion, pain and self-pity of her characters, Paige doesn't allow her characters to wallow in it. Rather, these marvelous characters express their foibles and vulnerabilities even while growing beyond them. Reflecting both the tragedy and triumphs of life and love, SOMETHING TO TALK ABOUT comes highly recommended.	2001-04-27
2021232:US	49693975	R2BVXBAHOMH77Y	0373243944	216559919	Do You Take This Rebel? (The Calamity Janes, Book 1)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Terrific beginning of Calamity Janes--Highly recomended	Sherryl Woods begins a delightful new miniseries, The Calamity Janes, with DO YOU TAKE THIS REBEL? Five friends share an enduring friendship, begun in high school, self-named for their penchant for broken hearts and troubles. Though their lives are widely divergent now, these women are still as close as sisters, despite their infrequent contact. If this first installment is any indication of the quality of the miniseries, then readers will be eagerly awaiting each month's continuation.<br />Cassie Collins never told nine-year-old Jake that trips to her hometown of Winding River, Wyoming were infrequent because his beloved grandmother wanted it that way. She'd always seemed more comfortable visiting them far from judgmental stares. So when the invitation to the ten-year high school reunion arrives, Cassie uses lack of money as an excuse to forgo the event. <br />Jake however, is determined to visit his grandma, and chooses a calamitous path to assure the trip. He simply places a number of items for auction on the internet, saving the payments to ensure that his mother can afford to take the time off for the trip. Never mind he doesn't actually have the toys or baseball cards he &quot;auctioned.&quot; So when the Sheriff steps in, he strongly suggests Cassie move back to Winding River and make a fresh start. Cassie returns to Winding River with the Sheriff's advise ringing in her ears.<br />Even though Winding River's a small town, Cassie hoped avoid Cole Davis, the father of her child. Fate has other intentions, throwing them together frequently. Time hasn't dulled Cassie's sense of betrayal, nor Cole's, it seems. Soon they both realize that parents had something to do with the way things ended between them. And it also doesn't take Cole long to realize that Jake's his son, even if Cassie never told him.<br />Cassie's spirited nature when she painted the water tower a shocking pink still lingers. Jake's use of the internet certainly reflects his mother's daring nature, and lends the novel a hook that starts DO YOU TAKE THIS REBEL? with a bang! Further, Wood's title is a marvelous play on words, considering the fact what most readers would assume that the word &quot;rebel&quot; would apply to the hero. Cassie's rebellious spirit, vulnerability, and spunk make her a delightful character, especially contrasted with the more staid hero. The second installment of this miniseries, COURTING THE ENEMY will be released in August. Highly recommended.	2001-04-25
2021325:US	49693975	R2LPMKRIVTETCU	0373243936	195468790	Cattleman And The Virgin Heiress (The Stockwells Of Texas) (Silhouette Special Edition # 1393)	Books	2	11	14	N	N	Disappointing	Heiress to the Stockwell fortune Hope LeClaire fails to arrive at the Stockwell mansion, sending the entire family scurrying in concern for her safety. Indeed, Hope has fled a terribly dangerous situation, mysteriously arriving at rancher Matt McCarlson's spread near death, suffering from amnesia, and her clothes in tatters.<br />Matt's ranch is far from town, and the terrible flood conditions disconnect him from civilization before he can secure a doctor for the mysterious interloper he finds lying in the muck. With the phones out, he can only wait until roads are repaired, and phones and electricity are restored. While he doesn't care to be anyone's pillar of strength, he still finds himself cast in the role of rescuer as Hope's amnesia makes him the only person she now knows or trusts.<br />As nightmares plague Hope's sleep, Matt finds himself sharing a bed with her, offering his presence as comfort. Despite his vows to avoid women, especially spoiled women with money, he can't resist the growing attraction he feels for this woman. Hope's amnesia robs her of her past and her personality, forcing her dependence on this stranger.<br />This is a painful review for me to write because I cannot offer any kind of positive recommendation of THE CATTLEMAN AND THE VIRGIN HEIRESS. The heroine's irritating self-pity falls flat, and the hero's less than loving approach to taking her virginity was painful to read, &quot;Dammit, you're a virgin!&quot; as he complains about the &quot;barrier.&quot; Further, the tedious amnesia plot is entirely predictable, lending an excuse for the heroine's dependence and falling into bed with her rescuer.	2001-04-25
2021973:US	49693975	R1KJXIW7JQEQK1	037325931X	139646344	Just Say Yes!	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A temptation of sex and sin -- Very highly recommended	Small town citizens of Lockett enjoy a good gossip, especially about the exploits of the twice-jilted Annie Baxter. Annie's one of those women everyone loves to whisper about because she's, well you know, &quot;different.&quot; Meaning she's too honest, too spunky, too quirky to fit small minds' concept of acceptable. People call her jinxed, so despite past foibles, Annie's determined her third engagement will end at the altar with an &quot;I do.&quot; <br />When Grant comes to Annie to explain that his twin won't be marrying her, she miraculously convinces him that he's got to step in for his wayward brother. Annie's tired of pity parties and whispers behind her back. Somehow, Grant finds himself walking down the aisle, to all appearances, as his brother! And when he kisses the bride, he starts wishing that this wasn't a charade. Indeed, Annie's a temptation of sex and sin, and Grant knows he's in trouble. <br />JUST SAY YES! presents a savvy, tumultuous, amusing contemporary romance that brings lovers together with originality and impressive flair. Remarkable plotting and sexy inuendo prove that &quot;different&quot; can be fantastic! Indeed, Leanna Wilson's marvelous writing will keep the pages turning quickly, providing an invigorating and imaginative read. If you only read one genre romance this year, make it JUST SAY YES! Very highly recommended!	2001-04-25
2022235:US	49693975	RJSBU7VW58BRI	0743300688	860521755	Murder Online	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Highly recommended	Fans who loved Beth Anderson's fluid lyricism in NIGHT SOUNDS will welcome her newest release MURDER ONLINE, where her poetic voice lures the reader through the treacherous territory of cybersex and murder. Her characters live and breathe, lending a pulse and breathlessness to the tale that will sweep the reader into a fascinating and dangerous world with a hard biting, surprising conclusion. <br />Claire Jenson is casting seeds in her flower garden when the call comes from Chicago that her youngest daughter has been murdered. Nineteen year old True had moved from her mother's home to Chicago, three and a half hours away, only six months ago. But the geographic brevity of the move belied the incredible distance and danger that life in Chicago had presented for young True. Burned from a romance gone wrong and a botched abortion, True preferred the excitement of chat rooms and cybersex to dating. Little had True realized that the dangers posed by stalkers over the Internet easily match the dangers of meeting strangers anywhere else. <br />Claire had lost her husband to a sudden heart attack only the year before True's death. Now only she and her oldest daughter Lannie are left. Computer illiterate, she objects to Lannie's suggestion that they bring True's computer home, but allows herself to be persuaded. As Lannie teaches her to maneuver in the mysterious world of cyberspace, Claire comes to understand the fascination her daughter held for a world that she had mistakenly assumed was both safe and anonymous. <br />Sergeant Detective Martin Slade has been a Chicago cop for almost thirty years, but the photos of True Jenson's body shake him as he recognizes her similarity to his own beloved granddaughter. Something about Claire's strength and depth of characters captures his imagination, and he finds himself promising to find True's killer even as the trail grows colder, leaving behind a crime not of passion, but a crime of deliberation and forethought. No one saw or heard the killer. When Claire discovers a letter written by True to her sister describing the three men who had been stalking her through the mysterious world of cyberspace, the Detective vainly tries to warn Claire of the dangers she seems to be courting in her pursuit of these mysterious men through chat rooms. <br />Anderson skillfully weaves a chilling tale of murder that leaves the reader forever questioning the safety of chat rooms and those who enter seemingly innocuous comments. Indeed, the world of cyberspace, in Anderson's hands, becomes as dangerous and deadly as the bars and hangouts always favored by the lonely. With a precision and deftness of pen, Anderson's murder mystery at once fascinates and repels computer users, however innocently we meet others online. Further, this fast paced, hard biting, yet entertainingly humorous and well developed mystery will simply whet the reader's appetite for yet more masterpieces from this author's pen.	2001-04-24
2022437:US	49693975	RB8ZTFY3NGGWZ	1930364946	211223501	White Fire (a Justine Edwards Thriller)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Recommended	Following the tragic loss of her husband, Justine took a six month leave of absence from the Bureau. She and Blake were married only a few months before he was assigned undercover. When she kissed him goodbye, Justine didn't know that following an extensive investigation, only his revolver and his wedding band provided identification. Her brother, also in the Bureau, soon disappears on a tip regarding Blake's death, leaving Justine to rage that it was her husband and she wanted to be involved.<br />Badly shorthanded because of the spread of the flu, the Bureau asks Justine to return to investigation right away. The assignment has the already been given the code name White Fire. An anonymous tip tells the Bureau of an arms dealer who recently eliminated two of his competitors via some rather direct and bloody means, taking out a number of innocent bystanders in the process. This dealer's name is Gabriel Titanos, a man wanted by the Bureau for both arms dealing and murder. Justine's partner on White Fire is Phil Boyer, a man with a reputation for working outside of accepted protocol. While a highly effective agent, Phil courts risk and usually worked alone. and she has agreed to accept the assignment.&quot; <br />Justine will assume the identity of a woman in the illegal arms purchasing business; a woman by the name of Angela Omfare. A Frenchwoman being held in temporary custody, Justine goes undercover in the prison to observe and learn about the woman, finding the dangerous situation even more difficult than she expected. But what she learns will be invaluable when she takes Angela's place for a buy with Gabriel Titanos. <br />T.J. Fox weaves a fascinating tale of complexity and murder, blending the death of Justine's husband with the danger of her investigation. While the plot is excellent, however, Fox's writing style lacks the sophistication that would give the novel a real punch. Nevertheless, WHITE FOX is well worth reading and promises good things of this author in the future.	2001-04-24
2022632:US	49693975	R3HE92XFT44XIS	1930364733	669786829	The Travels of First Horse - Book I - To Assyria	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Recommended -- This applies to books 1-3	The Ehvelen people were the Mother's own; their purpose was to protect the helpless from slavery, oppression and abuse. We Giants remember them as Elves, Fairies, Leprechauns, Pixies, Dwarves, Gnomes, Trolls and Djinns. The Ehvelen people were peaceful, living in harmony with nature while their enemies, the Doshi, were a warrior tribe who enslaved women and measured a man's importance by his number of sons. <br />These first three books of the series tell the story of First Horse, who left his people at the age of fifteen, not returning until ten years later. He learned military secrets and formed alliances against the savage Doshi, hoping to be able to enable the defense of the people. In this epic saga, Horse becomes a language expert, a weapon maker, a traveling magician and a gaming champion. Along the way, he also discovers the secrets and alliances that guarantee the continuance of his people, if only he can make it home alive. <br />Unfortunately, Horse's fast paced travels keep the story a bit superficial, preventing the depth of characterization that I expected. Nevertheless, the most interesting element of these tales is the framework of the tales themselves. Dr. Rich explains that the stories were handed down through the oral tradition. Until 800 A. D. the Ehvelen people were living in Ireland, and a scribe called Grasshopper transcribed the stories which were later found on scrolls. Dr. Rich began his work of translating the scrolls in 1993. The lending of historical data, with geographical details and the provision of credentials, Dr. Rich claiming to be employed by the Department of Mythology at the University of Selfril Islands, lends the tale a fascinating historical complexity and depth. For fans who enjoy these first three books, two more will follow, which include THE GREAT KHAN and THE AREG WARS.	2001-04-24
2022948:US	49693975	R1VJXJIX2MOOI6	096126425X	35850518	Over 75 Good Ideas for Promoting Your Book	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Highly recommended	The most obnoxious complaint I hear from writers is &quot;my publisher doesn't do enough to promote my book.&quot; Every time someone voices this complaint, I ask what they are doing to promote their book themselves. I am usually met with a shocked stare. Writers write, why should they promote? Not only why, but how writers can promote their work is answered in Patricia Fry's OVER 75 GOOD IDEAS FOR PROMOTING YOUR BOOK.<br />Fry has been marketing her own books for over twenty years. From the basics of book promotion, to mailing lists and web sites, Fry presents clear concise techniques for any author to find comfortable, successful methods for publicizing their books. Indeed, tips on topics such as book signings and promotional displays will motivate the most disheartened author to sell their work.<br />One of the most successful methods that Fry describes, that of writing a column, I have observed first hand. Several authors have joined WordWeaving over this past year for permanent or temporary columns, allowing them to increase their name recognition exponentially. <br />OVER 75 GOOD IDEAS FOR PROMOTING YOUR BOOK is an immensely practical guide filled with useful suggestions and tips that authors will find themselves returning to again and again. Fry's seasoned advice, crisp presentation, and practical approach wins my high recommendation.	2001-04-24
2022971:US	49693975	RLVB2MSHMR8J4	0961264268	283810676	A Writer's Guide to Magazine Articles for Book Promotion and Profit	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Highly recommended	In A WRITER'S GUIDE TO MAGAZINE ARTICLES FOR BOOK PROMOTION AND PROFIT, Patricia Fry provides a candid, insightful resource that any writer targeting magazine writing will find useful. With clarity and knowledge gleaned from over 27 years in the article-writing field, Fry teaches the skills necessary to become a success.<br />As the Senior Editor for WordWeaving, I receive many excellent writing related resources for review. Yet I found Fry's tool different from other resources for several reasons.<br />First, although most writers seem aware that reviews are important to publicize their books, A WRITER'S GUIDE TO MAGAZINE ARTICLES FOR BOOK PROMOTION AND PROFIT is the first resource I have seen that directly discusses the advantages of requesting book reviews and what to include in a review request.<br />Second, I like her tip sections. For example, in the section regarding book reviews, Fry includes the following tip: &quot;Start by building your portfolio of reviews locally. The hometown newspaper is generally eager for news of local authors.&quot; Not only is this not a tip I have seen repeated in every book I read about writing, but it also is something that applies to both epublishing and traditional paper publishing.<br />Finally, Fry also addresses many other extremely relevant topics with a brief, no-nonsense approach that will have writers motivated to begin before turning the last page. And she cautions against many of the same mistakes I see crossing my desk such as not including a social security number.<br />WordWeaving always looks for fresh articles for publication and is pleased to give authors space to mention their books, yet I see very few authors that take advantage of this unique vehicle for promotion. Therefore, I strongly encourage any author in the epublishing or traditional publishing business to read Fry's A WRITER'S GUIDE TO MAGAZINE ARTICLES FOR BOOK PROMOTION AND PROFIT.	2001-04-24
2023299:US	49693975	R1UTFY6A731OLW	0671020412	697856985	Dawnflight (Sonnet Books)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Highly recommended	In a war ravaged society, alliances are the key to survival. So when Chieftainess Gyanhumara (Guinevere) agrees to marry Urien map Dumarec to form a treaty, Gyan must put her feelings aside for the sake of her people. Never mind her intuition tells her that Urien is wrong for her. But destiny intervenes, in the form of the Pendragon of Brydein (Arthur). The result is an extraordinary tale that leaves the reader breathless with the unique retelling of the love between Gyan and Arthur. <br />Even names have been restored to the writer's concept of history, time, and place. Kim Headlee carefully weaves this tale, moving slowly through the theological and cultural challenges faced by Gyan, who must not only confront and treat the enemy as allies but also marry one. An expert with the sword and Chieftainess of her people, Gyan must find a way to live in a world of Roman convention where women are in service of men, not leaders. <br />This is not a traditional romance, but a tale much broader in scope. As the story builds, I found myself swept away, reveling in both Gyan's theological and religious battles, as well as her skill with the sword. As the pace of the novel quickened, this was one of those few books that I deliberately slowed down to savor for fear of having to leave the wonderfully created tale too soon. I wanted to remain within this world of mystery, miracles and lives of prophecy and violence.	2001-04-23
2023387:US	49693975	R3M74TBA8XISTY	0936085479	332241653	Achieving Financial Independence as a Freelance Writer	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Very highly recommended	Ray Dreyfack targets writers who don't have many notches on their literary belt in ACHIEVING FINANCIAL INDEPENDENCE AS A FREELANCE WRITER, although seasoned authors will also benefit greatly from this fact filled book. With the flair and savvy of a freelancer of over thirty years, Dreyflack provides clear information that will have any writer who dreams of chucking their day job well on their way to fulfilling the dream.<br />ACHIEVING FINANCIAL INDEPENDENCE AS A FREELANCE WRITER presents solid, time tested information in ten chapters, including getting started, how to move into freelancing as a career without starving, and how to support yourself during the transition and afterward. He also addresses corporate writing, benefits of networking, and choosing specialties.<br />As an English major who has always made a living from my writing, I have devoured a number of books in this genre, from books put out by Writers Digest to the type I mailed ten bucks for. This is quite honestly the best resource I have seen on the topic of freelance writing, providing tips I've never found elsewhere in addition to reminding me of things I knew but had forgotten. Most books of this type are filled with white space and fluff, but ACHIEVING FINANCIAL INDEPENDENCE AS A FREELANCE WRITER doesn't waste the reader's time; instead, it provides practical, timely information. I very highly recommend it.	2001-04-23
2023418:US	49693975	RC3XWXKLLHGBY	1929034881	181445579	WindChance	Books	5	0	0	N	N	second novel in The WindTales Trilogy!!	A storm tossed sea leads the Windlass's crew into a fantastic adventure. The saucy Geneveve Saur (Genny), her brother Weir, and her brother's pirating partner Patrick Kasella, along with crew, stumble upon a ghost ship. Plundered by pirates and left because she wasn't seaworthy, they explore the dredge, and are amazed to find two men locked behind a hidden bulkhead panel.<br />The last crewmember of the ill-fated ship has saved the life of a convict, but in their hiding, they have became trapped. The convict is filthy, starved and dying of Labyrinth fever. Having served his ten-year sentence for killing a man, a crime of which he is was innocent, Syn-Jern Sorn had escaped the hell-hole two years after his sentence should have ended. But Syn-Jern is no ordinary prisoner. The son of a Duke, the victim of cruelty and injustice, his incredible spirit continues to display itself throughout the novel.<br />If you love tales of intrigue, magic and mystery, I highly recommend this novel. For those already familiar with Charlee Boyett-Compo work, you'll enjoy the allusions to her other novels. All readers will find themselves enthralled by this gripping tale. As with many of her works, keep a box of tissues handy, for the ending will leave you shocked, tearful, and amazed by the beauty of the tale.	2001-04-23
2023432:US	49693975	R2U9UFD8QCTO69	1930364954	831867195	Battlescars	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Highly recommend	Scars of the past overshadow lives in unexpected ways in BATTLESCARS by Joanna Keys. With remarkable flair and compassion, Keys heals the wounded in this delightful romance.<br />It was bad enough when her deadbeat husband lost her ranch, but when the jerk also lost Baby McVie's beloved horse Wildfire in a game of poker, Baby set out to recoup her loss. Baby arrives in Rustler's Bending intending to beat a gambler at his own game. Baby knew she should have taken more time to plan and to save money. The private investigator was expensive, but when she learned Wildfire's location, she couldn't wait. <br />Swerving to avoid a pregnant deer on the way into town, Baby lands in a ditch thereby totally her car. Soon she realizes her duffel bag with her clothes has gone missing and she's down to her last hundred dollar bill, Baby accepts a waitress suggestion to show up at a nearby ranch offering her services as a companion to a teenage girl. She sets out walking, but it picked up by the ranch owner and driven the rest of the way before she realizes the man's identity. Greyson Jessup just happens to be the new owner of Wildfire.<br />Greyson hires Baby to keep an eye on his niece Amanda, despite the fact that they do nothing buy argue. He obviously likes a good challenge. Soon he finds himself in a bet with Baby. If he can discover her secret name, she must continue working for him until Amanda goes to college. If she wins, Baby gets Wildfire.<br />Combine Baby's bet with an prison escapee, mysterious accidents and dead cattle, and the result is a rich tale of romance with a strong plot line that keeps the pages turning. Key's natural story telling ability reveals a remarkable knack for revealing information unobtrusively. Lovers of romance will find BATTLESCARS perfect evening's read. Highly recommended.	2001-04-23
2023434:US	49693975	R13HOMIFCDC1WX	1929077122	592339252	Darkside: Of Magic Scorned	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wow! Very highly recommended	Beyond our mortal existence lies another world called Darkside where beings of the occult rule. Once Darkside possessed fertile fields and bustling cities, but it now lies in decay and ruin. During the Dark Ages worshipers of the Dragon crossed into the mortal world to bring back humans for sacrificial and breeding purposes. If the portal to the mortal realms can be breached again, they will begin kidnapping anew in order to bring power back to Darkside.<br />On the mortal side, Anlese, a powerful white witch, seeks to protect mortal humans and their short life spans with the power she wields. She believes human beings show more promise in protecting the resources of their world than the immortal inhabitants of the Darkside. But she's over a hundred years old and must leave her legacy to another. Between the worlds of Darkside and mortals lies a portal she has long protected. When her great grandson Tyler's reckless lifestyle negates him as an heir, Anlese demands that he bring his wife to her. <br />With her husband's death in a car accident and after ten months recovering from her injuries and drug addiction, Julienne had no choice but to fall in with Tyler's family's plans for her. Her beauty and career as a supermodel destroyed, she has no where else to turn. Even as her growing psychic gifts foreshadow danger, Julienne finds herself at the family estate with great-grandmother Anlese and cousin Morgan Saint-Evanston. <br />Immediately upon her arrival at the airport, Julienne begins her humorous conflict with Morgan. Their sparring and brittle humor brings a welcome counterpoint to this dark tale. Morgan is a wizard and an assassin who's renounced his powers but is immortal. Renouncing one's powers isn't enough, however; a wizard may walk away from magic, but magic, especially dark magic, doesn't allow itself to be scorned forever.<br />Although Morgan doesn't age, the centuries still bring about a horrifying, long disintegration. Julienne brings danger to him,arousing emotions he thought dead. As All Hallow's Eve rapidly approaches and he must leave the ancestral home, Julienne learns the true nature of the man she's falling in love with, and the dangers posed by both Darkside and the Dragon itself. <br />DARKSIDE: OF MAGIC SCORNED is sharp, crisp story telling at it's best. Despite the bleak overtones, the novel is riveting and impossible to put down. As the tension builds, the reader transitions right along with Julienne from the mortal to the fantastic, completely lost in the tale. Indeed, the complexity created between the human world and the immortal, the tangled relationships, distrust and betrayals combine in a breathtaking depth. Masterful. If you read only one fantasy novel this year, make it this one! I highly recommend it!	2001-04-23
2023441:US	49693975	R2QUEX50V2Q8QE	1930756879	686154428	Not All Spirits	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very highly recommended	Readers who found themselves enthralled by J. V. Lofgren's poetic voice in THE SEARCH FOR JACK LONDON will be pleased to rediscover his voice in NOT ALL SPIRITS. Capturing the spirituality and the culture of the Inupiat Indians of Alaska, Lofgren recreates the life of Charlie Frankson.<br />Charlie lives in two worlds, that of the physical and that of the spiritual. He grows up a part of both the white man's world and the shaman's world. At the age of fifteen, the Catholic missionaries enroll him in an Iowian seminary to become a priest.<br />Two weeks into his period of silence before ordination, the Elders call Charlie back to Alaska to complete his Shaman training. They call him back a second time, years later, to save the village from destruction. During that time, the lesson that not all spirits are from God becomes a testimony to the changing world of the Inupiat and the dangers to those who don't understand the spirits of the ancestors of the land.<br />A gentle, compassionate man, Charlie understands the political mechanisms that threaten his people's well being, as well as their own spiritual crisis. Underestimated by those who would profit from Inupiat land, Charlie's story reveals the strength of human spirit and the power of spirituality. <br />Lofgren writes with a deep respect of the Inupiat culture with a sense of magic and mystery. The remarkable tale of Charlie Frankson reveals a man of deep passion and spiritual gifts, bringing profound meaning to this simple tale. The characters become vibrant, living beings, even those not of this world. Very highly recommended.	2001-04-23
2023545:US	49693975	RCPI76XK36G9J	0966820908	396887960	THE BINDING, Book One of The Silvan Wars Saga	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very highly recommended	In THE BINDING, PhyllisAnn Welch creates a fantasy in which the reader longs to linger, delighting in this elven world. PhyllisAnn's humor, romance, and originality weave a lively plot that will leave the reader enamored with the magical world of Tylana, where gods fight to protect their children. <br />The distinction between the imaginary world and the world of the mundane becomes blurred when Korrene Greenwood encounters the hero of her work-in-progress standing in her tiny efficiency kitchen. Kory is convinced that she's gone crazy, even when high priest Rendolin transports her to her own world, a world she believes she created. But magic is afoot, and Kory hasn't begun to understand the powers that will bind her to the incredibly sexy Ren. <br />Elves have disappeared from earth, and the only remnants of them live on in story and song. Yet occasionally, a drop of Silvan blood surfaces in one such as Korry. To prevent the same fate befalling the elves of Tylana as befell the Earthan Elves, the human Korry and the elf Ren must be bound together through elven magic. <br />The Binding is more than a marriage, for it unites the souls of those bound through eternity. And the binding of a human to an elf offends those of the Silvan blood. More than an issue of pride, it is an issue of survival. But Ren's brother and many of his followers would rather see the human dead than to see her blood polluting their own. <br />PhyllisAnn's magical tale of love and fantasy weaves powerful magic. The first book of a trilogy, THE BINDING will have fantasy fans clamoring for the sequel.	2001-04-23
2023556:US	49693975	R2C8T4CILE36C3	0821766392	881005417	Conquer The Night (A Graham Novel)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Highly recommended	Kyra was willing to enter into any bargain with God to escape her prospective marriage to Kinsey Darrow. Betrothed by King Edward himself, Kyra cannot prevent the marriage to a man she finds unbearable, coarse, and cruel. But Kyra certainly did not consider the arrival of Sir Arryn and his men to be an answer to her prayers. Indeed, as the Scotsmen overthrew the castle, she took up a sword, dressed as a man, and fought the leader of the invaders herself.<br />Arry's wife was brutally murdered by Kinsey and his men. Arryn welcomed the opportunity to take both Kinsey's castle and his independent, spirited woman. Conquered by the bold knight, Kyra chooses to follow Arryn even though her choice means forsaking her home, her King, and her wealth. But Arryn suspects her motives, and she can't bring herself to confess that she not only despised the man to whom she's pledged, but she fears him.<br />As Arryn fights for Scotland to belong to Scotland, and not England, so will he fight to retain possession of his heart. He had thought that his heart was safe, insulated by grief. But the fiery Kyra has unexpected results. Further, Arryn's ill prepared to cope with the way Kyra leaves him feeling shaken and beguiled. Her fire and spirit lay bare his heart as easily as he wields his sword, though he won't admit it.<br />True lovers of historical romance will relish Shannon Drake's CONQUERING THE NIGHT. The carefully researched historical detail lends complexity and depth to the passionate romance. Indeed, Shannon Drake writes with a zeal and flair for history seldom matched. I highly recommend CONQUERING THE NIGHT.	2001-04-23
2024024:US	49693975	R3OPPOPWD160JZ	0966339711	23279255	Who Was That Lady? Craig Rice: The Queen of Screwball Mystery	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Very highly recommended	In this fascinating biography, Jeffrey Marks delves into the life of author Craig Rice, proving that her life was even more mysterious than her work. While Rice carefully obscured the facts regarding her life, Marks attempts to clarify the important role this woman played in the evolution of the mystery genre. Indeed, Rice pushed comedy to the forefront of the mystery genre. <br />Wishing to be accepted by the good old boy network of journalism, early in her career, Rice used a masculine pseudonym, and frequently did not acknowledge her gender in the text of her work. Rice thrived on misleading the press and others who would pinpoint her life with any accuracy. Just as her very choice of penname assures ambiguity, she also obscured how many times she married, and even what novels, novellas or short stories she actually wrote. <br />The same can't-be-beat optimism that imbued Rice's characters also characterizes her own life. Despite manic depression, acute alcoholism, and desperate mishandling of income, Rice manages to maintain her optimistic nature. A female publishing phenomenon of the 1940s, Rice annoyed such giants of the mystery genre as Erle Stanley Gardner when she was on the cover of &quot;Time&quot;. Rice's reoccurring to matrimony demonstrate her to rely upon others for security. She marries perhaps five times, with many other men also entering her life temporarily, many hoping to allow her to support them. Abandonment, absent fathers, and orphans become life long themes of her work as a result of her own life. <br />Rice's method of writing was notable. She wrote without outline, character sketches, or any idea of the conclusion. This incredibly focused effort would keep her up days writing maniacally, and she would not surface until the work was complete. This writing style clearly demonstrates the mania side of bipolar disorder, and explains her downfall once she began self-medicating with alcohol. It also explains her publisher's displeasure with workthat wasn't adequately polished late in her career, but read like a first draft. <br />While much of Rice's work reads like a Shakespearean tragedy, her strength and determination still shine through in Mark's prose. While acknowledging Rice's weaknesses, Mark balances them with her wit, talent, and sparkle. Capturing the flavor of the eras in which Rice was both at her best and at her worst, Marks doesn't spare the truth when he discusses the author's fatal flaws, including her family relationships, mental instability, and money problems. <br />Marks' thoughtful literary criticism adds a remarkable, yet fascinating depth to WHO WAS THE LADY. Not only is his research impeccable, but he also goes beyond the life of Craig Rice to provide insight regarding how she affected the development of the comedy mystery. While the beginning of the book is a bit slow going, once the background material is in place, the pace picks up, becoming a fascinating read. While Rice was a troubled woman, she deserves notice for her writing talent and strength of spirit despite the debilitating liabilities she faced. Mark's consummate handling of the material demonstrates both a deep love of the comic mystery genre, and a sincere respect for the remarkable Craig Rice. Very highly recommended.	2001-04-23
2024088:US	49693975	RZTQYEETFYZC9	1929077793	506358312	Escape on the Wind (Wyoming historical novel)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	HIghly recommended -- an insider's look at western life	Moving as quickly as the wind sweeping the vast plains of Wyoming, ESCAPE ON THE WIND by Jean Henry lends drama to the historical legends of Wyoming, creating an extraordinarily vivid account of the days when posses persued bank robbers.<br />Andrea Bordeaux lives with her grandparents in Wyoming. When outlaws arrive, her grandmother quickly shears Andrea's hair, puts her in overalls, and calls her Andy, hoping to protect her. Unfortunately, when the outlaws leave, they take Andy with them. Certain her grandparents are dying, Andy finds herself thrust into the midst of Wild Bunch members who take her to the Hole-in-The-Wall, where they plan the Belle Fourche Bank Robbery. <br />Small in stature, Andy finds herself relegated to cooking for the outlaws. Only Billy knows the truth of her sex, and she's sworn him to secrecy. Andy tries to reform Billy between cooking and cleaning. Following an attack by a vicious outlaw intent on carving her face, Butch Cassidy himself promises she can go home after their planned bank job. Meanwhile, the Five-State Governor's Pact determines to rid Wyoming of outlaws, while Andy wants nothing but to go home; that is, if she still has a home to go to. <br />ESCAPE THE WIND provides a fascinating glimpse into the legendary outlaws of Wyoming. Jean Henry's remarkably fresh voice tells a compelling story that's hard to put down. Historical fans will thoroughly enjoy this visit to the Hole-in-the-Wall gang.	2001-04-23
2024170:US	49693975	R13QAFDVWLX96Y	1584952504	491567449	The Secret of Pirate Key	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Recommended	Dreams of pirate treasure turn into more adventure than cousins Adria and Toby ever imagined in THE SECRET OF PIRATE KEY by Kathleen Culligan Techler. <br />When Adria spotted a pirate ship disappearing into the fog early one morning, Toby didn't believe her. But pirates did once roam the beaches of their vacation island of Pirate Key, and both children are drawn by dreams of hidden treasure. Indeed, Adria hopes that buried treasure will allow her family to return to Minnesota rather than following her father's new job to St. Petersburg, Florida. <br />As the cousins explore the island, however, they encounter bullies and mysterious doings surrounding an old house. Soon they realize the island conceals many secrets and perhaps even the ghosts of long dead pirates guarding their treasure. Further, Adria begins to suspect her Uncle Paul may be involved in something illegal, and she becomes certain that the answers lie with the old pirate's house.<br />For young readers who enjoy adventure and pirates, THE SECRET OF PIRATE KEY is a fun, light read certain to entertain. The plot twists and turns will engage the one's attention while the character growth of young Adria will inspire belief in one's self.	2001-04-23
2024186:US	49693975	R1ASCEDB2D81OF	0373271034	237932207	Who Do You Love	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Very highly recommended	WHO DO YOU LOVE? consists of two novellas in answer to the question posed in the title. &quot;Two Hearts&quot; by Maggie Shayne and &quot;A Little Bit Dangerous&quot; by Marilyn Pappano both present interesting twists to this question because these heroes and heroines are not quite what them seem, thereby making their paths to love especially interesting.<br />&quot;Two Hearts&quot;<br />Harry Phelps was in the wrong place at the wrong time, inadvertently placing himself in danger and ruining a long planned bust when police officer Jack McCain has to spring to his rescue. When Jack saves the older man's life, Harry orchestrates an opportunity for his daughter to meet the police officer, introducing him as a security specialist. After all, society women from the finest families don't date cops, despite the fact that men of their own social strata often appear insipid at best.<br />Harry's daughter Grace has grown weary of her mother's attempts to make her over in the appropriate image. Grace prefers basketball courts to ballrooms. Just once she allows her mother to dress her and that just happens to be the night Jack meets Grace. But love at first sight leads to Grace trying to live the image she believes Jack loves. When the truth comes out, about them both, the question remains if each will still love the bold stranger hiding behind the façade. <br />&quot;A Little Bit Dangerous&quot;<br />Paddy Monroe has a reputation for falling victim to cons and then playing innocent. So when he looses his life savings aboard a gambling boat, only his granddaughter Mary Katherine tries to delve into the incident. She knows her grandfather's weaknesses, but sacrifices her summer in an effort to please him just the same.<br />Unfortunately, Mary Katherine underestimates the task she's accepted. A schoolteacher more accustomed to sitting behind a desk than heels, she unprepared for the sexy revealing costumes and three-inch heels. She's also absolutely stunned to learn the man who cost her reputation, fiancé, and family's respect eight years ago works as security aboard the QUEEN. Further, while she suspected nefarious dealings aboard the riverboat, she underestimates the danger her questions bring to both herself and the man she still loves.<br />But these marvelous tales of love will delight romance fans that enjoy a touch of danger in addition to passion. Both authors have a flair for drama that moves the plot along quickly. Further, the heroes and heroines are spirited, funny, and vividly real, providing perfect escapist fiction. Very highly recommended.	2001-04-23
2024188:US	49693975	RYQTU67UYCAZU	1553160215	933932737	Slapstick	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Highly recommended	Beneath the glittery layers of Tinsel Town and tireless optimism of 1920s lays the story of how myths are created. The public sees only the highly successful comedian Harold Gilbert, the man with the million-dollar career, his own studio, a million dollar estate, and a beautiful wife and children. Yet Harold can't move with the changing times, nor can he forgot the dead girl who haunts his dreams. <br />Harold refuses to face change, preferring to maintain the status quo. A workaholic, Harold doesn't recognize the threats to his safe world. When Harold looses his lead director to an opportunity to work on &quot;talkies,&quot; he still clings to his proven method of silent movies. Despite the success of movies with sound, Harold believes talkies are a cheap gimmick. Just as he refuses to make changes career wise, so does he also ignore the signs indicating necessary changes at home. When his wife takes a separate bedroom, refusing to sleep with him and drinking too much, Harold doesn't intervene.<br />It was a time of secrets. Even Harold doesn't know why his partnership with Max Randolf ended years ago, or the animosity his &quot;friend&quot; still bears. Nor does he know of Ella's involvement with Max. Harold doesn't know who the girl was, or how she died. Nor does Harold know the truth of Lila's background, despite the fact that she's been his leading lady for three years. <br />As the dream of the dead girl continues to haunt Harold's sleep, so must he face the waking nightmares that threaten his career, his home and his self identity. With the crashing of the market, and the drained spirit of the people, so does Harold's own boundless energy seep away, leaving him cast adrift in an insensitive world. <br />Laura Mazzuca Toops captures the dizzying energy of the Golden Age of motion pictures in this poetic record of the past. The carefully laid details sparkle, giving the novel depth and authenticity. With a Fitzgeraldian view and spirit, she recreates a world ofglitz destined to be shattered by the Great Depression. The depth of characterization and the quality of prose mesmerizes the reader, holding the reader's attention captive until the last page is turned. Highly recommended.	2001-04-23
2024194:US	49693975	R38IF0Y7T4LR5B	1930756860	772059799	A Duck at the Dog Pound	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Recommended - very cute story!	When Wiggles the Duck was little, the children loved her and played with her all the time. Now no one notices her. Wiggles lives with the Walaces, in the backyard with her three beagle friends. When the children get home from school, they take the beagles for a walk with their mom, and sometimes their dad goes too. But they never take Wiggles.<br />One day while she practices barking, which sounds more like &quot;Quarf!&quot;, she bumps the latch on the gate and it comes open. At last, an opportunity to go for a walk. When a car blares it's horn, she hurries back to her yard. But later she tells the beagles what happened, and they convince Wiggles to show them how she opened the gate, which leads to a scary adventure. <br />Wiggles teaches a great lesson to young children about being happy with one's self. With humor, wonderfully simple art, and a deft touch, Susann Batson has created a lovely story for young children. I certainly hope to see a lot more from this children's author.	2001-04-23
2024285:US	49693975	R1ATRN5EHPP8FS	1587850141	635007011	Buried in the Townhouse	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Highly recommended	Thirty years ago the man was infuriated by a woman who exhibited more control than he does. He jabs her hard with the hypodermic syringe, then leaves her behind the wall, replacing the shelves of heavy books. He buried his secrets with the nun, confident no one will learn the truth. <br />Christina Braganti purchases the old townhouse on the upper-eastside of Manhattan with her brother Jake. Since she was in Europe with her son celebrating her son's high school graduation, her brother had gained the upper hand, selecting the building, the employees, even her job title, although they are equal partners with their mother. Unnerved that the townhouse is a former psychiatric hospital, Christina determines to make the million-dollar fitness center a success.<br />In spite of the expensive renovations, danger still lurks in the walls, basements, and many rooms of the townhouse. The marvelous cast of characters offers many suspects, and many crimes. Mike, a mute war veteran who lost all of his toes to frost bite, lurks in the hidden rooms, concealing his own secrets. Christina's assistant Lori, a recovered agoraphobic has her own agenda. Jake's assistant Sergio's suspicious behavior leads to drugs. Julia Morrell, a member of the club, intends to blackmail Christina into selling the fitness center at a loss. <br />Marianna Heusler's twisted and convoluted plot masterfully weaves a number of mysteries into a satisfying conclusion. As comedic mishap turns deadly, the masterful storytelling lures the reader into a maze of suspects, motives and dangerous rooms. Indeed, Heusler's marvelous talent in words leads the reader to understand that even as Christina becomes buried in the townhouse's problems and secrets, so do the bodies of its victims. Highly recommended.	2001-04-23
2024302:US	49693975	R32Y9SKTP0VMP8	1930364636	486584222	Shades of the Rainbow	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Recommended -- profits donated for a notable service	NOTE: I was initially drawn to this novel after reading about the author through list service I belong to. Bonnie is the executive director of Unicorn Haven, a free, in-residence counseling for teens and females. All profit from the book goes to support that service. But in the last year Bonnie has fallen victim to her medical problems, and is no longer able to work, therefore leaving her unable to support herself or her beloved program. With such a beautiful cause at stake, I requested a copy of the book.<br />For true lovers of a the romantic tale, especially those seeking a unique blend of old fashioned morals combined with the fantastic, this tale is for you.<br />The novel follows Karen Jackson's tale of self-discovery. When she takes Bill Norrbin home, her father harshly refuses to allow the young man on his property, and orders his daughter never to see him again, or be disowned from the family. Karen's loyalty to family and her deep spiritual beliefs cause her to break up with Bill. But after three months apart, she finds she can no longer keep her word.<br />Karen's confusion at being raised in a loving Christian home, that warmly welcomed everyone within its midst, forms the central theme. The novel deftly confronts issues of race and bigotry, and when Karen's eventually holds an old fashioned picture in her hand, the moment the last of her self-definitions crumble. What she does with the knowledge she's gained determines if she remains with her soul-mate.<br />Interestingly, Bonnie introduces elements of the paranormal in the form of visions, and treats Karen's migraines with holistic remedies. Such a montage of eclectic elements, both the ordinary and the fantastic, gives the novel its greatest strength. <br />Bonnie is obviously a new writer, and there are some weaknesses in the novel. Yet I thoroughly enjoyed her old fashioned approach to passionate sexuality, as she carefully balances it with Christian morals. I find the story very positive, interesting, and different from the ordinary love tale.	2001-04-23
2024334:US	49693975	R1UP393WY8KAIJ	0451409752	33344818	Catch a Dream	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very highly recommended	Mary Jane Meier chooses to write about the most unlikely combination, an ex-con and a llama rancher, resulting in the memorable romance TO CATCH A DREAM. In addition to a wonderful love story, Meier also includes an interesting theme of mystery and danger, making TO CATCH A DREAM resonant with nuances. <br />Her grandmother advised Meg Delaney to come to these mountains with her boyfriend. So when Meg finally convinced Edward to take some time off for a trip to the Rocky Mountains, she looked forward to the opportunity to spend some quiet time together.<br />Immediately upon arrival, Edward wanted to return to work to clench a big money making deal, despite the fact he and Meg have been apart for four months. Further, Meg thought that Edward believed in her innocence, despite her four month prison term. Now she realizes he has never understood what she had done, or why. When her fiancé leaves Meg stranded in Yellowstone, a chance encounter promises to change her life forever. <br />Edward departs in the wake of her resignation of her job as game designer for his company, and their broken engagement, leaving Meg stranded without appropriate camping gear, money or identification. Zack Burkhart had witnessed Edwards angry departure. Seeking a lost llama, Zach is in need of quiet time away from the ranch. A lawsuit following the death of his beloved wife has left him drained. Not that he thought the time away from his llama ranch would help. Soon, however, he finds himself playing rescuer to Meg, rather than seeker of a lost llama. <br />Zach eventually convinces Meg to come with him to his ranch. Five-year-old Robbie immediately takes to the young woman, even sharing his memories of his mother with her. Winona, Zach's mother-in-law, is less taken with Meg. Her harsh methods of ridding Zach of women have become legendary, such as sharpening knives while watching the scheming females, and soon Meg finds herself at the brunt of the Sioux woman's ill will. These secondarycharacters, and others, lend the novel tremendous depth and richness. <br />The reader can't help wondering what Meg could have done to earn jail time and what happened to cause Zack's wife's death. Further, Robbie and Winona add intriguing elements, further engaging the reader's heart and humor. Indeed, Meier's marvelous characters and fast paced plot create an original and daring novel that the reader won't want to put down! Very highly recommended.	2001-04-23
2024385:US	49693975	R2ZQ9WGGV2MAKL	1584954590	774234154	Speed of Love	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Unique perspective of love in the fast lane	No one took Eula Jean seriously, including her deceased husband. With her three-inch, perfectly sculptured, red-varnished nails, Eula Jean provided constant comic relief to the stock car circuit; not that anyone ever said anything to Big Ed. Then again, Big Ed was no fool. He certainly knew how to take revenge on Eula Jean when he prepared his will. She might have received a limited inheritance, but the bulk of Big Ed's estate was split between the man who was like a son, and the niece that was like a daughter. <br />Big Ed had picked Brandon Turner from near obscurity, after seeing him tear around a go-cart track. Brandon had been groomed him both as Big Ed's driver and his heir apparent. <br />Big Ed had boasted and bragged upon to no end about Desiree Corbett, enrolling her the finest boarding and finishing schools, and then promptly enrolled her in some fancy university overseas. While her Uncle Ed never let Desi near the racetrack, Desi had watched every broadcast race, and studied every book on the topic. <br />Neither Desi nor Brandon are prepared for Big Ed's final manipulation. If they can win the championship, according to the will, then the whole outfit is theirs. If they blow it, then the racing outfit will be put for sale with the proceeds from the sale, except for suitable trust funds for Brandon and Desi, going to Eula Jean. Along the way to the championship, however, they will face a few challenges, such as the racecar being destroyed and attempted murder.<br />Unfortunately, the characters are flawed, feeling more like stereotypes than real people. While the fast paced plot and surprising twists do hold the reader's interest, the action continually threaten to careen out of control. Fans of Leta Nolan Childers will be quick to realize that SPEED OF LOVE is not her best work. Nevertheless, SPEED OF LOVE by Childers provides a high speed, race to the finish line, complete with a runaway casket, a floozy blond, and murder. Further, SPEED OF LOVE provides interesting insight and a unique perspective on love in the fast lane.	2001-04-23
2024459:US	49693975	R1RALBGUNR81LR	1586971263	46024757	White Witch, Blue Lady: A Novel of Parapsychological Suspense	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Recommended	WHITE WITCH, BLUE LADY by J. M. M. Holloway blends an unusual measure of mystery, suspense, parapsychology, and a ghost story with endearingly quirky character. Exploring the consequences of the paranormal in ordinary lives, WHITE WITCH, BLUE LADY presents an unsettling and startling tale.<br />Nia Littlefield and her husband Carl purchases a prohibition-era brothel transformed into a bed and breakfast inn, planning to raise their family and share a future together. When a plane crash killed her husband and daughter, Nia retreats into a hazy world of alcohol and isolation, attempting to numb her world and the taunt of her prophetic visions. But when a recurrent vision reveals the threat of kidnapping, she warns her sister Wende of the danger. <br />Wende White is one of the most honestly painted, hauntingly real characters I've encountered. A new-age guru wanna be, with genuine love for her children mixed with blatant irresponsibility, Wende presents that which is enduring evenly mixed with that is intolerable. Her selfishness blended with her buoyant spirit, combined with her genuine love of her children makes Wende irresistible. <br />The blue lady, a ghost haunting Nia's inn, provides the focus of the novel. At moments of danger or retribution, she appears to warn or coerce. As Nia denies the ghost's existence, her sister Wende becomes all the more determined to capitalize on the ghost's existence. Her outrageous plans lead the reader into the delightful and the ridiculous. <br />WHITE WITCH, BLUE LADY both confused me, yet delighted me. The weaving the ghost through the novel provides an intriguing element. While Nia proves to be a sympathetic and unusual character, it is her sister Wende who steals the show. Despite her foolish ways, her self honesty and irrepressible spirit make her memorable. Unfortunately, I spent the first half of the novel wondering where it would lead. Despite that flaw, however, I couldn't help being drawn along by the fascinating characterizations. Therefore, I still feel this novel worthy of recommendation.	2001-04-23
2024737:US	49693975	R1KV200C91VH5O	0373168721	479427858	Have Baby, Need Beau	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Very highly recommended	Tempestuous, spirited Mimi Hartwell didn't want to feel attracted to her sister's ex-fiancé, even if Hannah had just married her soul mate. After all, Dr. Seth Broadhurst is Mimi's diametric opposite, staid where she is impulsive, controlled where she is romantic, fixed where she is spontaneous. But when Mimi catches the bouquet at her sister's wedding reception, events may even exceed Mimi's typical recklessness. <br />As storm warnings sweep the north Georgia mountains, highways shut down and travelers seek refuge in hotels and motels. A lack of vacancies requires that Mimi and Seth share a room, and passion results in a night of beauty -- and pregnancy. Who knew whipped cream, chocolate and strawberries could be so dangerous?<br />Intent upon setting aside their marvelous night when dawn brings realization of their actions, a newspaper photo, with Mimi and Seth in the background, makes their tryst public knowledge. Of course, pregnancy can't be concealed long either, and Seth refuses to allow Mimi's jailbird ex-boyfriend take the responsibility for his child. Unfortunately, pregnancy can also block the roads to one's heart, as fear gets in the way. Now it's up to Mimi to open her heart, and Seth to take risks, risking spontaneity and romance to win the woman he loves. <br />Readers who enjoyed Rita Herron's American Romance, HAVE GOWN, NEED GROOM for its lively, sexy, and fun content, will want to add HAVE BABY, NEED BEAU to their keeper shelf as well. The combination of passion and humor will keep the pages turning. And once again Herron not only creates delightfully warm characters, but her secondary characters also provide marvelous and rich tones in the novel. Very highly recommended.	2001-04-22
2025813:US	49693975	R3D7DY72FZMQRN	0373243812	988272530	Her Unforgettable Fiance : Stockwells of Texas (Silhouette Special Edition, No 1381)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Very highly recommended	In the third book of the miniseries Stockwells of Texas, Allison Leigh pens HER UNFORGETTABLE FIANCE. With her characteristic flair, Leigh creates a novel that moves the Stockwell's family story seamless along while creating a fierce and tender love between two dynamic individuals. <br />Something about Brett Larson reduces the highly controlled Kate Stockwell to an absolute raving lunatic. Determined to accompany him to look for the mother her family previously believed to be deceased, Kate is unprepared for the raw emotion of simply being in Brett's company. <br />Years ago they were engaged, until Brett told Kate to find someone else if she was so determined to get married. When she married his best friend, Brett assumed their relationship was over. He thinks of himself as a foam cup, while she is china. He's the son of servant at the judge's manor down the road; she's the tycoon's daughter. Despite his success, no matter how much money he has in the bank or what kind of car he drives, Brett doesn't believe he's worthy of Kate.<br />Kate needs to actively help find her mother. If accompanying Brett to Boston will fill that need, then that's what she'll do. Perhaps it'll help her to live with the reality of all her father's horrible lies. It was devastating for her to accept that Brett was like her father in that he always put business first, even ahead of her. Yet she can't resist Brett's dark good looks and the depth of passion they share for one another. <br />Confronting the past while creating a future confronts the heat of today in HER UNFORGETTABLE FIANCE. If you enjoy this novel, be sure to watch for the conclusion of the Stockwells of Texas in THE MILLIONAIRE AND THE MOM by Patricia Kay in April.	2001-04-21
2026416:US	49693975	R22JOLHEWWVDPO	0373243820	925703609	A Love Beyond Words (50th Book) (Harlequin Special Edition)	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Very highly recommended	With no time to run, hurricane Gwen with her 130 mile-an-hour winds brings Alli Matthews' house crashing down around her. She lies trapped in the debris praying for help. When the search and rescue unit arrives, a neighbor describes Alli as angel--one of those genuinely good people. Rescuer Ricky Wilder's can't help wondering if today's rescue will bring him &quot;face to face with an angel.&quot; When he sees her, Ricky can't resist her strength and resilience in the face of danger and pain.<br />Alli can't help wondering, once she's glimpsed Ricky, if &quot;angels ever come with dancing eyes...and looking like sin.&quot; The bond between rescuer and victim is intense, and while it's usually broken by loved ones and friends, Alli's essentially alone. The hospital won't release her without a place to go and folks to look after her. Ricky's invitation to stay with him comes a total surprise, But Alli had been cautious, practical and self-protective for fifteen years. The hurricane had taught her that it's time to live again. Falling for Ricky may have a few drawbacks, however, given what he does for a living.<br />Ricky usually protects himself from commitment by simply not dating the marriageable type woman. But seeing Alli in the hospital with her faded hospital gown looking battered and bruised, Ricky couldn't walk away. And suddenly the thought of panties and hose drying on the shower rod holds an odd sort of appeal. Bringing Allie home breaks a fundamental rule in Ricky's life: never let a woman move in unless he plans to marry him. <br />Sherryl Woods has another keeper with A LOVE BEYOND WORDS. The fact that the heroine is deaf lends a strength and a challenge to the tale beyond what I expect from genre romance. Further, Woods has a talent for lending her narratives a sizzle and tension that keeps the pages turning. Very highly recommended.	2001-04-21
2029214:US	49693975	R2FAMRP1MOGFAX	0821767674	21399027	Risky Business (Zebra Bouquet)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Highly recommended	According to Josh's boss, playing the field is fine for men, but what they really need is a woman who can help build their career. Any contact with Katie threatens Josh's focus. But her persistence is irresistible. She won't let Josh take her grandfather's photography studio. When he'd been engaged to her older sister Erin three years ago, Katie found him irritating but not mean spirited. When Erin defaulted on Josh's loan for the studio, Katie believed she found her nitch. But first she has to convince Josh that her sassy exuberance will lead to success.<br />Even if Katie kisses like a fantasy, Josh intends to keep the perfidy of the Flanagans at the forefront of his mind. Josh recognizes that Katie can be a major distraction, but it takes a lot more to perceive her as an asset. While her stunning good looks benefit Josh's good in the male hierarchy of power, he doesn't want Katie's social missteps to mess up his promotion. He doesn't believe she can make a go of the studio, nor can she provide him what he needs in the way of window dressing. But when Katie cancels Josh's escort for a business evening, and shows in the woman's place, Flanagan spontaneity results in unexpected long-term success.<br />Josh vows that he will never again become involved with a member of the Flanagan family. Even though he claims Katie as a fiancée, they both knew the falsity of it. And they also knew that she represented the polar opposite of the stability Josh craves. Katie has never seen Josh without that conscious carefulness in his eyes. Josh doesn't trust, and he doesn't ever feel safe, no matter how he surrounds himself with people who rely on him and benefit from the good work that he does. Josh believes that if he plays it right, the business world promises a certain financial stability?it's worth a few missed ballgames or lonely nights.<br />RISKY BUSINESS humorously presents the falsity of corporate life in the guise of success, revealing that love is worth a little instability. Carol Rose's perky yet complex characterizations create endearing characters that prove quite appealing. Indeed, I couldn't help being hooked by Katie's zany spontaneity from the moment Josh took a dunking in the water fountain. I can only hope Rose will decide to share Katie's elder sister's story with an equally spirited encounter! Highly recommended.	2001-04-18
2029370:US	49693975	RWIYJHYA63O70	0743300874	269253173	The Devil is in the Details	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Frighteningly suspenseful -- Very highly recommened	Buried in the myriad pile of details lies the answer to Sonoma County's serial killer. But when those sworn to uphold the law impeded its enforcement, even FBI agents find their path blocked. As each holiday brings another gristly murder, the citizens clamor for an arrest. Yet the Bureau doesn't believe that they have serial killer, despite three victims, with the same signature on the kills, in the past three months. <br />The Holiday killer almost ruined a good field agent's career because he couldn't solve the case. The Behavioral Science Unit profiler says he can't help any more without new information. Yet the FBI is no closer to solver these gristly crimes than a year ago when the case came to their attention. Now agent Jake Daniels, whose career is already spiraling downward, has been assigned to the case.<br />Jake also carries the baggage of his past. His partner was killed by a serial killer. His wife was tortured and murdered while he watched, unable to come to her assistance. Now the FBI has taken him from a desk job to the field, assigning him to a difficult case just to keep the investigation going, not because they faith that it will be solved.<br />Author Ariana Overton presents a gristly, brutal serial killer with the clarity and insight that has become a trademark in her work. With eerie attention to detail, Overton creates the clues and the red herrings that keep the pages turning. Even as the surprise conclusion seems to leap out from the novel, the reader will be on the edge of the seat. Further, her meticulous attention to detail also creates vividly realized characters. Very highly recommended.	2001-04-18
2029380:US	49693975	RQCRR4PAU1153	1587151227	965650276	Woodsman	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Die hard sci-fi fans might find it interesting	Theoretical biologist Thomas A. Easton presents an ugly view of the future in WOODSMAN, the third novel of the The &quot;Organic Future&quot; series, first published by Ace in 1992. Between writing novels, Easton has been reviewing science fiction for Analog since 1979. <br />Set some time in the future, genetic engineering allows scientists to replace many non-organic needs, thereby introducing issues of what constitutes humanity. Indeed, &quot;Gengineering&quot; allows the genetic mix of plants, animals and machines. Conversely, growing opposition from &quot;Engineers&quot; want to return to the good old days of &quot;Machines not Genes,&quot; regardless of the damage to the environment.<br />While the concept of splicing human genes with plants or animals creates fascinating moral implications, the author fails these expectations. The shallow characterization relies entirely on plot to move the novel along. For example, when Frederick leaves being a pig behind to become human, a reader is left to assume he mourned his deceased wife, but sees no evidence of grief. Further, although Sam and Sheila Nickers have turned themselves into half-plants as anniversary presents to each other, consequently loosing their jobs, their homes, and their futures, the cold lack of emotional backlash leaves the reader flat.<br />Easton's greatest sin is the same of many authors: all telling and not enough show. The concepts on which the novel rest are fascinating, but reading the novel becomes a cerebral experience rather than an emotional one. Indeed, Easton's language choices clearly demonstrate his extensive academic background, making the novel less approachable for the layman reader. Nevertheless, for a challenging moral read, science fiction fans will find WOODSMAN an interesting read.	2001-04-18
2029837:US	49693975	R1BBD0Z3RXVJU8	0505524236	626786836	Night Visitor (Timeswept)	Books	5	78	81	N	N	Spanning of time and history will capture your imagination	Tafaline Lytoon blithely pedals her bicycle in a sport dress, takes photographs of archeological digs, shoots a gun, and hikes through lonely country -- much to her father's chagrin. Her clothing is more concerned with comfort and indestructibility rather than fashion or appearance -- much like her approach to life. She realizes that most suitors are more attracted to her looks, her fortune, or entree to her father than to her. <br />Taffy's father asks her to photograph the skeleton of the famous ghost piper of Duntrune, Malcolm MacIntyre. According to legend, Malcolm played the pipes at risk of his own life to warn his clan of impending disaster. His plan worked but in retribution the enemy brutally killed him. Now, on stormy nights, he comes to play his pipes upon the wall. When she touches the piper's bones, a connection is made between Taffy and Malcolm.<br />The span between the centuries that Malcolm and Taffy occupy soon grows thin as each sights an apparition of the other. The echoes of words carry across the centuries until Taffy finds herself drawn into a journey leading her back through the centuries to the ugly wars between clans and the days when the faerie still held sacred space.<br />Melanie Jackson deftly weaves a tale that honors the myth, magic and lore of Scotland. Based on the true story of the piper of Duntrune, she masterfully blends fact with fantasy to present a fast paced, riveting tale. Indeed, this spanning of time and history will capture your imagination in a romance that will touch your heart. Very highly recommended.	2001-04-18
2030233:US	49693975	R11XB22PYBR0DX	1588511022	878330246	A Song of Healing	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Extraordinary -- Very highly recommended	A SONG OF HEALING functions like a parable, telling the story of one boy's growth and change. The simple lessons, however, have universal application for individuals in a much broader scope.<br />Robert's untidy appearance conceals a gifted artist. Rather than encouraging his creativity, however, the traditional school system criticizes his waste of time and discourages his artistic expression. His broken home has left his face hardened, hiding the gentle child within. Classmates find him an easy target, and teachers find him a distraction to the other students.<br />Robert's life suddenly changes, however, providing him an opportunity to explore his artist gifts of expression. Nurture replaces criticism in a classroom where learning doesn't just occur within a pencil and the head down. The learning experience expands to bring all elements together, including art, movement, and community. Through an unusual teacher, Robert learns to value of himself and those around him. Individuality is celebrated within the community of a classroom, and those experiences reach far beyond the school.<br />As a child frequently frustrated because I don't learn well in traditional classrooms, A SONG OF HEALING touched my heart, striking an intensely personal response. During my two years of teaching experience, I successfully employed some of the techniques described, including gathering in circles for class discussion, finding the simple rearrangement of desks redefines the energy of the entire classroom expereince. I have also participated in tossing &quot;energy balls&quot; and other energy work that allows groups of completely disparate people work together as a community. Consequently, my first hand experience not only validates Duschik's work, but makes me want to share this book with educators, parents, and anyone else I can gather as an audience. Very highly recommended.	2001-04-18
2032493:US	49693975	R3MOW35OXADMNA	0505524384	226151078	Aphrodite's Kiss (Protector)	Books	5	37	39	N	N	Over the top! Very highly recommended	Fans of THE CAT'S FANCY will love the return of Julie Kenner's zany characters in her latest release, APHRODITE'S KISS. Irrepressible as ever, Ms Kenner has outdone herself in this outrageous, sexy, savvy love story of superhero proportions. <br />Controlling superhero powers is like living an episode of The Twilight Zone for Zoë Smith. The taste of chocolate bring about uncontrollable responses. X-ray vision can be controlled by glasses, but other senses register with fearsome clarity. Yet Zoë has yet to levitate or steer a propulsion cloak with any degree of control. Considered a halfing, because she's half mortal and half Protector, Zoë has to pass her twenty-fifth birthday tests to become a member of the Counsel. In her case, the test includes saving the world. <br />George Bailey Taylor isn't the typical hero. His endearing qualities make George remarkably human, such as when he meets assistant librarian Zoë, and he finds himself turning into a &quot;tongue-tied idiot.&quot; Undeniably sexy, George also has money trouble, seeking lost change in his car to buy a soda and hotdog for supper. So when a man promises $10,000 for the recovery a family heirloom, with a worthwhile deposit, George leaps at the opportunity. Little does he realize how his quest for the family heirloom will dovetail with his new romantic interest. <br />With her characteristic flair, Kenner will have the reader laughing till tears come at the marvelous antics and sparkling dialogue. Richly created characters, an outrageous plot, and a loveable ferret make APHRODITE'S KISS is a keeper. Do I see another promise of a story line from Zoë's overly protective brother? Very highly recommended.	2001-04-16
2032512:US	49693975	R3ATIQ5W47UA3N	0505524376	459558416	The Mermaid of Penperro	Books	5	1	2	N	N	highly recommended	In Kent, England, 1804, Konstanze resists the bondage game, complete with riding crop, that her husband Bugg proposes. For two years she tolerated his odious manners, perversions, and hygiene, and now she can't take anymore. She flees to Penperro on the Cornish coast, where she has inherited a house. <br />When lawyer and part-time smuggler Tom Trewella hears the beautiful song and sees the luscious woman who rises from the sea, he proposes a bit of deception be worked on the crown's Preventive Water Guards. Konstanze becomes the mermaid of Penperro, complete with fins and song. <br />As she and Tom fight their mutual attraction, Bugg's son seeks Konstanze to insure his own inheritance, and the whole town soon believes in Penperro's mermaid.<br />THE MERMAID OF PENPERRO is a delightful romance as exhibiting the flights of imagination, which mark Lisa Cach's style. The amusing scam, the repulsive Bugg, and the budding romance combine in a light hearted read certain to entertain the romance lover looking for an original tale with a twist. Highly recommended. <br />THE MERMAID OF PENPERRO is a delightful romance as exhibiting the flights of imagination, which mark Lisa Cach's style. The amusing scam, the repulsive Bugg, and the budding romance combine in a light hearted read certain to entertain the romance lover looking for an original tale with a twist. Highly recommended.	2001-04-16
2033941:US	49693975	RP2X6NJ39JDRB	0449005836	990014722	The Right Hand of Evil	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Recommended for the brave	When alcoholic Ted Conway inherits his ancestral home in Louisiana, after the death of an estranged aunt, wife Janet accepts the move as the last chance for the family to stay together. She's almost immediately disappointed, however, and makes plans to leave with their three children and their dog. Then Ted has a remarkable healing, bringing about sobriety, and returning him to the man Janet fell in love with years ago. <br />The small town of St. Albans doesn't welcome the Conways. The communities' memories and rumors of the wrongs and evils perpetrated by the Conways extends even to the children. The house is said to be haunted. Certainly something evil exists within its foundations, a miasma that aims to mutilate and destroy that which is good or innocent. Ted's remarkable healing as result of the touch of evil will cost both his own soul, and possibly the soul of his son. <br />The estranged Aunt Cora who passed the house to Ted also passed the family bible to the parish priest. Within its pages are the recordings of the generations of Conway women who know the secret of the house's evil. As father Devlin discovers the tragic stories and locates the missing pages, the generations of evil begun at the hands of a priest lead him to the Conway house to aid the fight against a monstrous evil.<br />Having checked out the many of reviews at, I find it interesting that the higher marks come from readers like myself who haven't read a lot of John Saul's work. THE RIGHT HAND OF EVIL heavy grounding in Catholicism and Satanism won't be to everyone's taste, nevertheless, I found Saul's approach fascinating and addictive. The convoluted and twisted plot kept the pages turning quickly, and I find the origin of the evil within the Conway house fascinating. A remarkable tale in detail, such as the painted garden in the dining room, and rich characterization, I recommend THE RIGHT HAND OF EVIL.	2001-04-15
2034161:US	49693975	R37OXOT9OO3A8A	1583450114	649300861	Scars Upon Her Heart: A Novel of the Napoleonic Wars	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Recommended for history lovers	Lady Vevina Joyce has gone from the toast of Dublin and Cork society to camp follower in only six months. To protect Viv, she and brother actually claim to be husband and wife as they aid the fight against the French as Napoleon Bonaparte seeks to control all of Europe.<br />Major Stewart Fitzgerald rescues Viv from fellow soldier Sergeant Hawkes, who seems determined to not only harm Viv, but also her brother. Stewart feels as if he's known Viv before, little suspecting that she was the woman who once changed the course of his life.  Taking both Viv and her brother under his wing, Stewart finds Viv to be an enigmatic and alluring woman whom he can't resist. Her beguiling mix of sensuality and innocence stir his passion. <br />When their father went bankrupt, Viv and her brother lost everything. But it was Stewart's brother that causes their horrible change in fortune, making Viv's rescuer's motives suspect. Hawke's interest in Viv and her brother clearly demonstrate an enmity that links to Stewart's brother himself.  <br />Deception and treachery lead Viv from war-torn Spain to the magnificent Alps, vividly created with talented author Sorcha MacMurrough's deft pen. While Viv's a little too perfect at times (I want to be able to accomplish as much as she can in a single day), the cleverly woven plot and magnificent sweep of history create a memorable tale of love and danger. SCARS UPON HER HEART is fascinating reading. Recommended.	2001-04-14
2034280:US	49693975	R194P0C1WSX8S3	1878634054	463570808	My Love's Keeper	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Recommended -- powerful and sensual ethnic romance	Nicole Moore can't repress the incredible attraction she feels upon meeting the sexy Zachary Regan. A widower of six years, Zachary clearly wants only to concentrate on raising his children and keeping his company solvent -- he has no wish to marry again. Nicole firmly believes that if he didn't want to become involved with any woman then he shouldn't be so virile, masculine and compelling. Tall and gorgeous, Nicole is accustomed to men pursuing her, not her pursuing them. Zachary has just reversed that trend.<br />At times Nicole finds her self-confidence shaken, feeling naked and vulnerable before a man who doesn't want her. Yet she tenaciously continues to see Zachary, leaving him to find her enchanting. He finds himself falling for this stubborn, strong willed woman who's secure enough not to be put off by his declaration to not remarry impresses him. For the first time in his life, Zachary feels as though he's loosing control.<br />This powerful and sensual ethnic romance boldly confronts the miasma of emotions when two people, sworn to remain single, meet the one person who rock their worlds. Author Rochelle Alers presents powerful yet vulnerable characters in MY LOVE'S KEEPER, powerfully revealing the contradictions created by a rebel heart. Recommended.	2001-04-14
2034306:US	49693975	R7O2FAHWMCDDG	050552421X	958396308	Scarletti Curse (Candleglow)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Gothic danger and passionate love -- Very highly recommended	The ancient dons worshipped the old gods, honoring their pagan heritage and building the palazzo in defiance of the Holy Church. Two centuries ago the Scarletti family was cursed, and now for years there have been rumors of murders and assignations. Indeed, the palazzo itself feels evil to sensitive Nicoletta, a woman who is known to be &quot;different&quot; in her gifts to heal, to listen to the wind, to sense danger. So when the mesmerizing Don Scarletti chooses her to be his bride, Nicoletta knows every bride who entered the palazzo is doomed.<br />Nicoletta roamed the hills surrounding her village before the don's choice of her curtailed her activities to the palazzo. She had sworn no man would command her, but when she fled her home to hide, the don followed her, luring her with his own gift. The don's darkly sensual voice, erotic and seductive, entices her imagination and her womanhood, linking her to the man she would flee.<br />Don Scarletti knows well the dangers that lurk upon his land. Political upheaval and family secrets threaten the woman he takes as wife, as well as the others dependent upon him. He carefully guards his own gifts from others than his chosen bride. Only Nicoletta can reach through his icy aloofness to the passionate man concealed within. <br />As a new comer to Christine Feehan's work, I had very high expectations based on other reader's reactions, and I am not disappointed. Written with a sensuous style, a deep understanding for history, and a respect for both Christianity and Paganism, THE SCARLETTI CURSE contains a fast paced plot and dynamic characterizations. All the classic gothic elements keep the pages turning, including the dark castle with gargoyles, warnings from natural elements, portents from ravens, secret passageways, family secrets, and multiple dead wives. Further, the strong heroine isn't too perfect; the troubled hero still maintains his strength amid his human failings, while the gothic elements lend the perfect depth and shadow. Very highly recommended.	2001-04-14
2038882:US	49693975	R3TJ078WPDOSK4	1586972073	496236398	Dark Hunger	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Darkest desires and hunger -- very highly recommended	In the exotic streets of Istanbul, ten year old Alana Piovanetti captures the attention of the vampire. As she sparkles like a rare jewel among the crowd, he couldn't resist the luscious scent of the child-woman. When she glimpses his elongated canines, Alana not sure whether what she had seen was illusion or reality. Enraptured by her touch, her taste, he waits twelve years.<br />As the odd blend of nightmare and fantasy haunts her dreams, Alana lives on the seventh floor of the high-rise, because &quot;she wished to have the feeling of being able to fly off one night if she wants to.&quot; The dreams only come in fragments, yet she has a sense of strength and safety in powerful arms. She couldn't recall his face, yet she knows it to be wise, magnificent, and ancient. His hypnotic presence follows into consciousness, even the teasing touch of his fingers. Every night the violently erotic dreams chase away restful sleep, leaving her hungry, insatiable.<br />When she sees the ad for a manager at La Cueva del Vampiro, she applies and gets the job. As a twenty-two-year-old Nietzche freak fresh from college, with no practical experience, Alana makes a startling success as a manager. The idea of dressing up and pretending to be a vampire had become an obsession. Little does she suspect that she's at last begun the path to her dangerous destiny.<br />Filled with Puerto Rican heat, the erotically seductive language deceptively masks the horror of the plot. As questions of integrity, morality and loyalty become unimportant, these sensuous characters become hostages to their darkest desires, their darkest hungers. For lovers of vampire romances, DARK HUNGAR is a keeper. Very highly recommended.	2001-04-10
2038896:US	49693975	R2DUWN94V6ZLKX	1586972073	496236398	Dark Hunger	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Stunning! -- very highly recommended	In the exotic streets of Istanbul, ten year old Alana Piovanetti captures the attention of the vampire. As she sparkles like a rare jewel among the crowd, he couldn't resist the luscious scent of the child-woman. When she glimpses his elongated canines, Alana not sure whether what she had seen was illusion or reality. Enraptured by her touch, her taste, he waits twelve years.<br />As the odd blend of nightmare and fantasy haunts her dreams, Alana lives on the seventh floor of the high-rise, because &quot;she wished to have the feeling of being able to fly off one night if she wants to.&quot; The dreams only come in fragments, yet she has a sense of strength and safety in powerful arms. She couldn't recall his face, yet she knows it to be wise, magnificent, and ancient. His hypnotic presence follows into consciousness, even the teasing touch of his fingers. Every night the violently erotic dreams chase away restful sleep, leaving her hungry, insatiable.<br />When she sees the ad for a manager at La Cueva del Vampiro, she applies and gets the job. As a twenty-two-year-old Nietzche freak fresh from college, with no practical experience, Alana makes a startling success as a manager. The idea of dressing up and pretending to be a vampire had become an obsession. Little does she suspect that she's at last begun the path to her dangerous destiny.<br />Filled with Puerto Rican heat, the erotically seductive language deceptively masks the horror of the plot. As questions of integrity, morality and loyalty become unimportant, these sensuous characters become hostages to their darkest desires, their darkest hungers. For lovers of vampire romances, DARK HUNGAR is a keeper. Very highly recommended.	2001-04-10
2039004:US	49693975	R3RO1XUJAO28ET	097028392X	152690262	The Lives of Ghosts and Other Shades of Memory	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Stunning -- very highly recommended	An Eppie finalist, THE LIVES OF GHOSTS AND OTHER SHADES OF MEMORY by Loren Cooper is a haunting reminder that ghosts aren't the only things that trouble us. Blurring the lines between the genres of fantasy and science fiction, and likewise the lines between good and evil, THE LIVES OF GHOSTS AND OTHER SHADES OF MEMORY offers sweeping philosophical questions of history and human culture. Comprised of eleven short stories, each is riveting in its intensity, fascinating in its depth, mesmerizing in its narration. Very highly recommended.	2001-04-10
2040501:US	49693975	R1N8MYMJVDDF7B	1586971018	33000907	'Til Death and Beyond	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Deliciously spine tingling -- Very highly recommended	Even as he lay dying, Karl swore he would never let Dori Daine go. Trapped by twisted tons of steel, Dori watched her manipulative and possessive husband die. Intent upon berating her, Karl had not seen the deer in the road until it was too late, and the car spun out of control over the guardrail.<br />A year later, Dori returns to the riverside cottage where with twelve-year-old daughter Jessie. She had spent every summer of her childhood in these woods along the river. She still finds herself thinking of everything in terms of Kyle, so she vows that this summer she will start thinking of herself as just Dori, Jessie's mother, school counselor, independent. She's no longer Kyle's possession. She belongs to herself.<br />Thirteen years apart haven't ended the sparks of interest between Dori and her childhood sweetheart Mitch Kramer. The pain of their parting -- of the loss of the friend/sister they both loved -- must be overcome, however, for Jessie's sake. For when she discovers the Ouija board in the bottom of a trunk, a malevolent spirit uses Jesse to seek revenge against them all. <br />Fans of paranormal romance will find TIL DEATH AND BEYOND deliciously spine tingling. Hannah Rowan skillfully uses old paranormal props, albeit the Ouija board, with starkly original flair. Her fluid story telling will keep the reader up past bedtime -- I couldn't put it down. Very highly recommended.	2001-04-09
2041746:US	49693975	R23U5ELN5PT2G9	1585710261	235994373	A Dangerous Love (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	When sensuality and murder collide -- Very highly recommende	The daughter of a police officer, Elena Jackson's career as a Phoenix police detective was a rising star until she filed a sexual harassment complaint. Elena was punished with a desk job while he continued to do his job. Elena has written her resignation letter, planning to submit it when she can't stand being a desk jockey any longer. However, Lieutenant Cher Dawson of the Cold Case Unit requests to bring her aboard. Investigating eight years of unsolved murders sure looks better than her desk job or a resignation.<br />When the impressive looking letter of notification finally arrives informing former football player Reardon that he has passed the state's bar examination, he suddenly isn't certain he wants to practice law. He'd also declined going into the family cosmetic business, which hadn't made his family happy. Perhaps he'd rather continue to run his jazz and blues club located in a marvelous renovated church building. However, when his best friend once again finds himself in the midst of murder accusations, Reardon asks a dollar to defend him. <br />Eight months ago Adam Elliot's bride of two months was murdered with her own bridal veil. A schoolteacher, Mary Lynn scarcely had the kind of enemies who would commit such a brutal crime. With only circumstantial evidence, Adam looks guilty when Elena begins to investigate the case. However, the powerful mutual attraction between Elena and Reardon immediately brings into question ethical dilemmas. Further, as investigation begins to suggest Mary Lynn's death was not an isolated event, Elena finds her investigation heating up both professionally and privately.<br />Nominated by Romantic Times for Reviewers Choice Award for Best Multicultural, A DANGEROUS LOVE combines mixed heritages and mixed emotions to create a exhilarating read. Indeed, the characters are fascinating, with a powerful depth that combine sensuality and risk to create vivid individuals. As the love between Elena and Reardon grows, they face notonly censure regarding their feels, but also a external danger in tracking the serial killer. Indeed, the powerful moral and ethical questions raised by their relationship provide a marvelous balance to the danger presented by the murders. Very highly recommend.	2001-04-07
2044607:US	49693975	R3EQRS367GXRGB	0373259263	369741428	Every Woman'S Fantasy (Mail Order Men)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The serial fiancÃ© -- Very highly recommended	Ten minutes before the processional, groom Mark O'Grady decides that he can't get married -- again. This time it was because his bride-to-be was addicted to cellular technology. Before that one was a shopaholic, another nags, another only exhibits interest in ancient languages, and the first of the jilted fiancées hates camping. None of his friends except Sam, the best man, will show up for the ceremony anymore. His mother even refuses the invitations!<br />Mark really does want to get married; it's divorce he's trying to avoid. So he takes Sam's advice about looking for his next bride. He places an ad in Texas Men. Sam reasons that Mark keeps getting engaged to the wrong women because they are beautiful, so naturally he has sex with them. Except under his wild exterior, Mark is really an old fashioned kind of guy. He thinks that once he's had sex with a woman, he has to marry her. So this time they place the ad, sort through the responses, and Mark corresponds with the prospective lady -- for a long time. <br />Six months later, after a three-month correspondence, Charlie McPherson eagerly plans to meet Mark. She has decided to change her image, however, going for the siren look. She's tired of the low maintenance, wholesome image she ordinarily portrays. This time she intends to experience unbridled passion and searing ecstasy. Since that's exactly opposite of what Sam encourages in Mark, events promise to get very interesting! <br />Falling in love was never so much fun! Especially when a rapid courtship leads to a wedding proposal, and the ladies in purple T-shirts arrive to warn Charlie of Mark's nefarious past. With DOA for Damn O'Grady's Ass plastered across their T-shirts and the date of the termination of the wedding plans, these ladies mean business. They have formed a support group, meeting once a month to &quot;talk, drink wine, eat take-out, play Uno, trash Mark.&quot; So the question remains if Charlie is at last the woman Mark's looking for, or if she's the next member of the DOA support group!<br />EVERY WOMAN'S FANTASY demonstrates the sensual, exquisite pleasure of meeting one's soul mate, degenerating into every woman's nightmare when the DOA arrive! Hysterically addictive and divine, EVERY WOMAN'S FANTASY fulfills every romance reader's most serious demands, including madcap fun, a tender love story, and the perfect ending. Very highly recommended!	2001-04-04
2045133:US	49693975	R25VV9NBZIUKF5	1893896137	214715380	Cupid: The Captivating Chauffeur	Books	5	6	6	N	N	unusual and whimsical -- Very highly recommended	Defying Jupiter's &quot;hands off humans&quot; policy was disastrous. Venus hadn't known she had allergies until was demoted to Goddess of the Fruit Trees and Gardens. The eight months of puffy eyes and sneezing leaves her absolutely determined to regain her position as Goddess of Love. Since Cupid was downgraded to God of the Flocks and Shepherds, he just scratches his fleas and moans about his hooves. Worse, Vesta has been made the Goddess of Love, complete with chastity belt and determination to base matches not on love, but on logic. Despite her demotion, Venus pits her match making skills against Vesta. Venus arranges the love match between Andrew Sullivan and Francesca Ling, while Vesta tries to pair him with The Ice Queen, Olivia Montgomery. <br />Drew spent his life raising his younger siblings following the death of their parents, not even graduating high school himself, but ensuring education and support for each of his younger siblings. Finally freed of the last of responsibilities, he's ready to live. Retiring from business, Drew plans a cross-country trip, hiring a limo since he doesn't have a driver's license. He doesn't realize his driver's directionally impaired until they wind up at Niagara Falls. Giggles and guffaws later, following skinny dipping, tickets for lewd behavior, tawdry hotels, aphrodisiacs and inhibitors later, Drew and Frankie find joy of love despite Vesta's hysterically funny interference. <br />This delightful Cupid novel exhibits the freshness and delight that marks J.M. Jeffries's writing style. Joyfulness in love brings mortals and gods into a remarkable contemporary romance that satisfies the most demanding critic. If you love the unusual and the whimsical, then CUPID: THE CAPTIVATING CHAUFFEUR is a must read! Very highly recommended.	2001-04-04
2045192:US	49693975	R21AONOZX5GK3B	0373259271	666499582	Tempting Tess	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Sinfully tempting -- highly recommended	When Jason Denison decides to suddenly disappear in a quest to &quot;find himself&quot; sister Tess and partner Blake Sutherland are left holding the bag. With all their money invested in the advertising firm, their success is vital. Despite the erotic tension between them, however, Tess and Blake spend more time sparring than they do working together.<br />When the Loverboy account becomes available, however, Tess and Blake must work together seeking out male models who are fun, intelligent, and most of all, sexy. As they travel across the country seeking the appropriate men, Blake quickly realizes that beneath Tess' boxy suits and tightly groomed bun lurks a sexy woman he can't resist. Tess, on the other hand, soon comes to understand that beneath Blake's playboy exterior lurks a savvy, sensitive man she finds exhilarating.<br />Despite their growing attraction, however, Tess and Blake are determined that neither desires a long-term commitment. As Tess reveals her innermost desires and fantasies, however, Blake realizes how difficult it will be to let this extraordinary woman go. Tess also recognizes that while she stepped in because her brother had bailed on the company, she stayed because she loves what she's doing. Although she plans to walk away from the company when the Loverboy ad campaign is complete, she finally her resolve increasingly challenged.<br />Liz Jarrett's tongue-in-cheek sense of humor sparkles in this fun novel. Her love scenes are sensual, but tender; her hero sexy and gentle; and her heroine bold but vulnerable. TEMPTING TESS provides delightfully passionate characters in addition to some really amusing scenes. Highly recommended.	2001-04-04
2045332:US	49693975	R1J46JJ64KEOCL	0967518512	802561901	Horrors of the Holy	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Highly recommended	The sacred and the profane are only separated by a thin veil, and when HORRORS OF THE HOLY peels back the veil, be prepared for the fearful and unexpected. Beneath the most respected and holy lies the macabre and the profane, often more closely linked than you've ever expected.<br />Ranging from vampires and the supernatural to priests and evangelists, and even the common such as jewelry and teeth, HORRORS OF THE HOLY will have you checking the mirrors and the bathroom repeatedly. Two of my favorites, &quot;Always Amber&quot; demonstrates that possession may come from the simplest of things, while &quot; Anti-Christ Superstar&quot; will have you thinking twice before checking out that cool new web site.<br />Perhaps some of the fun with HORRORS OF THE HOLY also comes from the play on literary tradition. &quot;Always Amber&quot; was on my mother's book shelf for years; all children of the sixties and seventies loved &quot;Jesus Christ Superstar&quot; and of course the allusion to the bible in &quot;The Tooth Shall Set You Free.&quot;  Wilson's clever alliteration of the title, of course, also delights this English major: HORRORS OF THE HOLY: 13 SINFUL, SACRILEGIOUS, SUPERNATURAL STORIES.<br />While some stories are vaguely familiar as ghost stories or urban legend, this fresh voice brings new meaning and vitality to the story telling. Each story is riveting, written with an intensity that will hook the reader right through the end. Each story lives with vibrancy that is very difficult to match with such a diverse short story collection. If you love horror stories, the HORRORS OF THE HOLY is a must read.	2001-04-04
2047025:US	49693975	R3V7ZCHMUGUILN	037324391X	968296910	Her Mysterious Houseguest	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Recommended--strong emotional moments	Tall, dark and sexy Mikel Starzov arrives mysteriously out of nowhere, miraculously at the moment Aino needed help. When the Aino climbed down from his truck, Mikel immediately recognized the older man's distress, rushing him to the hospital in time to prevent further complications from a stroke. <br />Mikel is far more comfortable on the bustling streets of New York City than in Michigan's desolate Upper Peninsula. Used to more people than trees, Mikel never expected his search to lead him to such an isolated area. Called &quot;Nemesis&quot; by the folks of headquarters, Mikel never fails to locate his quarry. In this case, he seeks a missing woman. Many years ago, thirteen-year-old Renee disappeared from an abusive and dangerous home, leaving behind her sister, mother, and cruel father. Now her sister wants to find Renee.<br />As a promise to his best friend Steve on his wedding day, Mikel's using his vacation time to track the bride's sister Renee. When he follows the only lead he has, Mikel winds up in Ojibway and saving Aino. As a way to thank Mikel for his timely intervention, Aino invites him to stay at his farm where his cousin Rachel Hill also resides. Mikel has to keep reminding himself that he does not get involved with anyone involved with one of his cases, even a delectable woman like Rachel. A previous bad experience nearly got him booted out of the agency, yet Mikel can't ignore the powerful attraction between himself and Rachel. Rachel long legs, sweet brown eyes, and imminently kissable lips are just too much to resist.<br />While I found HER MYSTERIOUS HOUSEGUEST to be a pleasant read, I also was somewhat disappointed. I found it difficult to loose myself in the tale; instead I questioned much of the plot and characterization of the hero. Without giving away too much of the plot, I can't help wondering how a man purported to have such strong intuition doesn't use it to find the missing sister. I kept wanted to bash the hero over the head when he missed every instance of obvious finger pointing; yet his grandmother guessed the solution right away. Nevertheless, I did enjoy the word play between the older generation as well as the lovely ending. Recommended.	2001-04-02
2047301:US	49693975	R2PFFB086LKN2W	0373243928	874860808	Solution: Marriage	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Love and redemption -- Recommended	Ten years in New York City didn't wash the wicked gleam from Luke Parker's eyes. Callianna Magruder recognized it as soon as she laid eyes on him again. Indeed, the mere sight of him turned all her firm resolutions to mush.<br />Callie doesn't need Luke back in her life. She spends all her energy just paying the bills and keeping a roof over her son's head. She wants to forget the torrid love affair that led to her heartbreak, and fathered her child ten years ago. As far she is concerned, the Parkers, both father and son, have caused her enough grief. <br />Most folks believe think of Luke as an amoral playboy, but he does try to live by his own code of ethics. Thirty-two years of self-absorption without significant relationships and too much booze led to a reevaluation of life. Especially when a drunken confession informs Luke of his son. Now Luke's a man on a mission, determined to win back the only woman he's ever loved and the son he's never known.<br />Luke doesn't dare tell Callie that he knows the truth, however, because she would likely feel threatened. So Luke proposes a business marriage. Marriage to a Magruder insures that Luke gets his father off of his back, and would possibly regain the only thing that Callie wants--her family's farm. Callie insists on a time limit of one year. Now Luke only has twelve months to prove himself to both the woman he loves and his child.<br />SOLUTION: MARRIAGE is an endearing novel of love and redemption. The hero boldly accepts his mistakes the consequences of his actions. I find it an interesting plot twist that the hero knows all along that he's a father, while the mother doesn't realize that he knows. Unfortunately, the plot feels a bit disconnected, making the reading a bit uneven. Recommended.	2001-04-02
2047340:US	49693975	R2ERXPQRFH4T6J	037325928X	387256455	Walk On The Wild Side	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Sexy restaurateur meets business heiress -- very highly reco	When Grandfather Edwin Chandler gives Sunny yet another speech about her duty, she can't stand any more. She's not ready to take over the family business. After completing her graduate degree, Sunny wants six months to spend as she pleases before assuming reign over the company. Although she was raised to be cold and unfeeling, Sunny's fierce independence balks at imprisonment in the cold granite and steal building that houses Chandler Enterprises. Unable to withstand her grandfather's badgering, Sunny stops the limo, leaps out, and heads for a help wanted ad in a nearby Italian restaurant. Her grandfather's parting words that she won't last six days inspires Sunny. With a challenge like that, she's certain to succeed. <br />D'Angelo's is everything her grandparent's mansion is not -- warm and inviting. Despite her lack of qualifications, Sunny persuades Mama Bennie to hire her. With a promised one month probation, Mama Bennie introduces Sunny to her new boss, Nick D'Angelo. Sparks immediately fly. Nick doesn't want a woman who looks like Sunny in his kitchen. Although Sunny has no experience as kitchen help, she refuses to let Nick run her off. Hard work and aching feet don't keep Sunny from establishing her niche in the heart of the community, the family, and especially Nick. But the question remains if they can find a way to establish and maintain a relationship when they come from two such disparate worlds.<br />Donna Kauffman has a talent for bringing her characters and story line to life. The dialogue came across crisp and sharp, making the read quick and delightful. Not only are the heroine and hero wonderful, but so are the other family members, especially Nick's meddlesome sisters. The spicy love scenes and the strong characterizations make WALK ON THE WILD SIDE very highly recommended.	2001-04-02
2048233:US	49693975	R1DKUSK4O2H2CG	0373243871	980825554	Millionaire And The Mom (The Stockwells Of Texas) (Silhouette Special Edition # 1387)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Cinderella meets the mercenary -- highly recommended	For those who have delighted in following the Stockwells Of Texas miniseries, the fourth volume, the MILLIONAIRE AND THE MOM holds even more excitement, more revealed secrets, and more fun in Patricia Kay's unmatchable style. <br />Caine Stockwell had been a father without a conscience. Abusive to his children, particularly his eldest son Jack, lying about the death of his children's mother, and robbing the Johnson's of their family property long ago. Now the patriarch of the Stockwell family has finally died, leaving behind his legacy of secrets and shady dealings. Although Jack was treated equally in his father's will, he does not want his share of the family fortune, believing his father had never loved him. Now that there's nothing holding him back, Jack is off to find the Johnson family to consider restitution for the wrongs done a generation ago.<br />Widow Beth Johnson's challenges just seem to grow. With two children and a score of problems, a tornado was the last thing she needed. Her rose farm lost its watering system and its propagating greenhouse. Her husband had left them without insurance and with no savings, and grasshoppers had damaged the roses last year. Her grandmother had loved her roses, passing that passion to Beth. And she wouldn't walk away from her and the children's heritage. Unable to afford to hire the help she needed, Beth works way too many hours. So when Jack shows up asking to work for room and board, she can't afford not to accept his help, though he scarcely looks like he needs to work so desperately.<br />Although Jack enjoys his work as a mercenary, he's never felt the passion for his work that Beth exhibits toward her rose farm. Her indomitable spirit, despite extreme adversity, also can't help but win his admiration. In only twenty-four hours Jack finds himself willing to do things for Beth he's never been willing to do for anyone. But he still runs a terrible risk when she learns he's there, working for no pay, under false pretenses. Jack doesn't have a clue about how she feels about the Stockwells, and would prefer to work for her while gaining the information he needs. When the revelation comes, Beth may or may not consider the Johnson claim a windfall since Jack hasn't been honest about it from the beginning.<br />Patricia Kay's choice of a rose growing business for her heroine is not only unusual but also fascinating. Greenhouses, pumps and propagation seem so much more complicated than the roses growing in my front yard! With her creative flair for innovative detail, the plot moves quickly, flowing smoothly in its integration of the larger story lines carried from previous novels, in addition to its own tightly woven plot line. Once again Kay's graceful voice provides a delightful, entertaining read. Highly recommended.	2001-04-01
2048254:US	49693975	R3GQ2RWVJ5ECPK	0373243901	948345943	Magic In A Jelly Jar	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Baby teeth, magic, and wishes -- Very highly recommended	When single dad Joe Morgan receives another call from the school for a conference, he didn't expect to learn that his son has been collecting baby teeth. Apparently, the latest addition to his collection went from a small girl's mouth to his thumb when she bit him during the shoe lace extraction. Learning of a recent classroom visit from &quot;The Tooth Fairy,&quot; Joe journeys to the office of Dr. Smantha Carter to see if she can shed some insight on his son's obsession for teeth.<br />When Joe enters the examining room with his son Luke, the marvelous blue, star-studded ceiling takes him by surprise. The stars seem to glimmer and he is certain that he spotted a shooting star. But Joe doesn't believe in magic, and tries to deny what he sees. When he meets Samantha, however, Joe can't deny the magnetism of her touch and her presence, a feeling akin to magic. Indeed, Luke believes that Samantha is really the Tooth Fairy thereby capable of working magic. After all, she looks like the illustration in his book, and she can pull quarters from little boy's ears. <br />Samantha feels foolish for all the years she believed in magic. Then she touches Joe while doing a magic trick of pulling scarves from his pocket. She only wanted to make him smile; she didn't expect the spark of pure of magic that flares at her touch. Indeed, it frightens her. She feels sadly out of practice with men, having been badly burned. She relates to seven-year old boys much better than grown men. Further, the fact that Joe has children makes him strictly off limits because she can't endure the possible grief again.<br />It turns out that Luke's obsession with teeth stems from his desire to get his mother back. Elena left her family thirteen months ago without looking back -- no phone calls, no cards, no letters. Luke tried a four-leaf clover, but that didn't bring her back. Asking Santa didn't help. Neither did wishing on a star or his birthday candles. But when Samantha arrived in his classroom complete with glittery skirt and magic wand, pulling quarters from ears, Luke knows her magic is real. He believes that if he collects a hundred baby teeth in a jelly jar, the Tooth Fairy, Samantha, will bring his mother home.<br />Just from the title, Sally Tyler Hayes establishes her creative flair! Who would have thought that a jelly jar could bring two people together? But in Hayes' imaginative hands, the jelly jar becomes a moving metaphor for magic, resulting in a highly memorable tale that remains forever captured in the reader's imagination. Further, her delicate understanding and compassion for parents and stepparents lends considerable depth to the novel. Hayes' insight demonstrates an amazing story telling ability! Very highly recommended.	2001-04-01
2048456:US	49693975	RMANWXVS0OQ4W	037324388X	138224251	From This Day Forward	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Fairy tales can come true -- recommended	Annie Smith didn't mind the wait at the bank teller's line. She enjoyed imagining careers and lives for the people around her, able to enjoy a self-employed, unhurried life. People watching led to be the first to notice the man in the Ronald Reagan mask entering the bank. As Annie lies belly down on the pine smelling concrete floor, she contemplates the possibility of death, She resolves that life is too short to continue to postpone its pleasures. She wants double double chocolate fudge ice cream, really nice, full priced shoes, and to feel the wind in her hair. Most of all, Annie wants to fall in love.<br />Griffin Chase thought of Annie as the housekeeper's little girl. When the call came to pick her up after the robbery, he was quite surprised. But with no other family to call, the number must have come to her automatically. So he happily obliged in picking her up at the police station. And immediately knew he was in real trouble. Because if although he wasn't a superstitious man, he promptly knew he was life was never going to be the same. Perhaps it was her request for gourmet ice cream. Or it could have been her decision to toss her discount tennis shoes at out of the convertible as the wind blew in her hair. Then again, maybe it was when she pulled off her over sized shirt, revealing the black, v necked T-shirt beneath, and then wiggled out of her cheap underwear bra, also tossing it out of the car. What ever it was, life would be never be the same.<br />When the adrenaline wears off and Annie finds herself without underclothes, but with Griffin standing on her front porch, she regrets her impulsive actions. She has wanted to get his attention for years, but what she doesn't realize is that she's finally succeeded. As reality returns, Annie finds realizes that her childhood friend isn't just some ordinary guy. He's the vice-president of Chase electronics, the biggest employer in time, and the object of every Cinderella fantasy she's ever had. And when Annierealizes that she may know the man who committed the robbery, Griffin quickly finds himself acting as the knight in shining armor. <br />FROM THIS DAY FORWARD is a delightfully fresh love story. Taking chances and persuing exciting opportunities allows a fun plot and spirited characterization to come together with flair. As the housekeeper's daughter captivates the man from the big house, the reader can't help the occasional giggle. Recommended.	2001-04-01
2048486:US	49693975	RYJ6AY9FBY1C9	037324388X	138224251	From This Day Forward	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fairy tales can come true -- recommended	Annie Smith didn't mind the wait at the bank teller's line. She enjoyed imagining careers and lives for the people around her, able to enjoy a self-employed, unhurried life. People watching led to be the first to notice the man in the Ronald Reagan mask entering the bank. As Annie lies belly down on the pine smelling concrete floor, she contemplates the possibility of death, She resolves that life is too short to continue to postpone its pleasures. She wants double double chocolate fudge ice cream, really nice, full priced shoes, and to feel the wind in her hair. Most of all, Annie wants to fall in love.<br />Griffin Chase thought of Annie as the housekeeper's little girl. When the call came to pick her up after the robbery, he was quite surprised. But with no other family to call, the number must have come to her automatically. So he happily obliged in picking her up at the police station. And immediately knew he was in real trouble. Because if although he wasn't a superstitious man, he promptly knew he was life was never going to be the same. Perhaps it was her request for gourmet ice cream. Or it could have been her decision to toss her discount tennis shoes at out of the convertible as the wind blew in her hair. Then again, maybe it was when she pulled off her over sized shirt, revealing the black, v necked T-shirt beneath, and then wiggled out of her cheap underwear bra, also tossing it out of the car. What ever it was, life would be never be the same.<br />When the adrenaline wears off and Annie finds herself without underclothes, but with Griffin standing on her front porch, she regrets her impulsive actions. She has wanted to get his attention for years, but what she doesn't realize is that she's finally succeeded. As reality returns, Annie finds realizes that her childhood friend isn't just some ordinary guy. He's the vice-president of Chase electronics, the biggest employer in time, and the object of every Cinderella fantasy she's ever had. And when Annierealizes that she may know the man who committed the robbery, Griffin quickly finds himself acting as the knight in shining armor. <br />FROM THIS DAY FORWARD is a delightfully fresh love story. Taking chances and persuing exciting opportunities allows a fun plot and spirited characterization to come together with flair. As the housekeeper's daughter captivates the man from the big house, the reader can't help the occasional giggle. Unfortuately, the plot's premise makes it a bit predictable. Recommended.	2001-04-01
2048897:US	49693975	R2CMFDKPEF4KQP	0373259255	902475381	Seducing Summer	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Loss of control can be a good thing! Highly recommended	Summer Avery refuses to loose control of the carefully orchestrated life she has arranged, even if it means always living alone. Although she had dearly loved her parents, and didn't begrudge the decision she made to give up her dreams so she could care for them in their last years, the cost was high. Now that she has established her career, arranged her life as she wants it, and finds great satisfaction in quiet evenings reading, she's not willing to compromise her peace of mind. Not even for a man with the most devastating blue eyes she's ever seen. <br />Brett Ford couldn't take his eyes off the beautiful woman sipping wine. Although he'd caught her eye, she didn't offer a come hither invitation, so he maintained his distance until her friend, a mutual friend actually, arrived. The introduction to Summer led to a wonderful conversation, nachos and buffalo wings. Although they really seemed to hit it off, Summer declined another evening spent together. Nevertheless, Brett insisted upon walking her to her car, and then providence intervened. A dead battery and a long delay on behalf on AAA allowed passion to give them a memorable night. But when morning came, Brett found himself, disappointingly, alone. <br />Their mutual friend however, talks sense into Summer when she learns she's pregnant. Much against her own desire to raise her child completely independently, she contacts Brett to give him the news. Brett doesn't have any doubts, immediately beginning his campaign to win Summer's heart and a life together with their child. Marvelous picnics and circumstances work to his advantage. But Summer still finds compromising, yielding and sharing a challenge. And when she learns the price Brett has paid in lost opportunities, Summer fears taking his dreams just as her own had been snatched away.<br />Finding one's way to love in the midst of control issues makes SEDUCING SUMMER a delightful read. Toni Blake weaves a magically romantic tale of independence yielding to change with grace and delicacy, never depriving either character of their strength, but finding ways to blend their independence for an even stronger bond when together. And the way Brett persues Summer is wonderful! We should all be blessed with such romancing! Highly recommended.	2001-04-01
2049040:US	49693975	R3QUAZRCD0Y3CL	0373709757	683166900	Castillo's Bride (Harlequin Superromance No. 975)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Buried treasure and treasures of the heart -- Wow!	Someone wants Jordan Castillo dead, but they don't know a woman lurks in the shadows. As three unidentified men heave his body off the dock, expert swimmer Aurora Collins dives to his rescue. Emergency surgery and recuperation time must pass before the truth begins to emerge.<br />Jordan's family can trace their lineage back for centuries. He's also a salvager searching for sunken treasure, and dreaming of ways to provide for his extended family. All the men of his family perished in a desperate storm at sea, and Jordan has assumed responsibility for the remaining family members. So when Aurora presents her knowledge of a Castillo wreckage from the early 1800s containing gold, he yields to her pressure to a partnership. Despite the fact he wants a partner, not a woman, he soon finds himself irresistibly drawn to Aurora.<br />Aurora left home when she was sixteen, accepting a once in the lifetime opportunity to crew a Florida salvage ship. Her departure created a permanent rift between herself and her family. Blamed for all the family's problems, she'd learned to stay away except for birthdays and holidays, just to keep the peace. But now it's up to her to save part of her family. She recently found a single gold medallion in a wreck. Now she wants to partner with the hereditary owner to salvage the remaining treasure. She intended to use her proceeds to keep the family business solvent to grease palms in an effort to rescue her sister, brother-in-law and niece from a Mexican prison.<br />As danger and intrigue bring these business partners closer to affairs of the heart, they are both faced with tremendous obstacles. Someone wants them dead and wants the location of the treasure. Further, Aurora's sister is desperately ill, and must be rescued from the lack of health care in the Mexican prison before she dies. As the action and subplots increase, the reader will be pulled along in a wonderful adventure of danger and mystery in the exotic Pacific waters.<br />Romantic suspense combines with dangerous waters in Anne Marie Duquette's CASTILLO'S BRIDE. Anne Marie Duquette clearly demonstrates her writing talent as she provides a suspense-filled and action packed story line containing two understandable lead characters and a strong secondary cast, especially the teenager who's foolish actions instigate the dire situation she family must confront. Her chilling descriptions of the Mexican prison system and the destitution incurred by extreme poverty juxtaposed by the wealth displayed at San Diego's boat docks make a profound image. And her vivid descriptions of the kelp beds and beauty of the sea are amazing. Very highly recommended.	2001-04-01
2049056:US	49693975	R11Z5TLSP9JUOD	0373243898	307554419	Cowboy'S Baby (Ranching Family)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	A wonderful dilemma -- Recommended	Two months ago at Christmas, Kate McDermot found herself descending into a pretty bad funk. While others were finding love on a family trip to Los Vegas, Kate was mourning the loss of a fiancé who eloped with someone else. Ordinary careful, cautious, and conservative, Kate needed to feel desirable, appealing and attractive. So when her brother unexpectedly arranges for her to be paired off with the sexy Brady Brown, she found herself enjoying his attention. Too much champagne and she confined her greatest secret. At twenty-nine, she's still a virgin waiting for her wedding night. Brady appreciates the specialness of her desire to be married the first time she makes love. Since they are in Los Vegas, it was simple to arrange for her dream's fulfillment. The next morning, however, Kate was mortified to find herself married to a stranger, regardless of how wonderfully intimate the previous day had been.<br />Now Brady's flying to her family's ranch purportedly for a fun visit. Neither he nor Kate confessed to their rash marriage, but he's actually bringing her the divorce papers to be signed. Unfortunately, fate has taken a hand in the matter, and Kate has another secret to confess. She's pregnant. And she still feels his magnetism. Despite that attraction, however, Kate has serious reservations about telling Brady about the baby. She'd seen first hand the results of shotgun weddings, and had no intentions of making Brady feel trapped. So she decides not to inform him of the pregnancy before the divorce is finalized.<br />Their marriage was the most insane thing Brady had ever done in his life. But she wasn't just another woman, and when she stipulated her desire to be married when she lost her virginity, it made a kind of drunken sense to fill her dream. But there's nothing more foolish than marrying your best friend's sister and then taking her to bed. Even if the lovemaking had been fabulous. Now he wonders when they put this fiasco behind them, if he'll finally beable to get her off his mind.<br />What a delightful dilemma Victoria Pade presents in COWBOY'S BABY. Sometimes fate has to take a hand when two people allow a hasty act to block their attraction, as Pade demonstrates with style. Unfortunately, the heroine's lack of confidence wears the plot down a bit; nevertheless, the airy tone still manages to hold the reader's avid attention. Recommended.	2001-04-01
2049598:US	49693975	R1JPB8E1U6FEX0	0821767909	547124831	His Rebel Bride: Brothers in Arms	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The warrior with a heart -- highly recommended	Kieran Broderick has known little but warring and fighting all of his life, taking satisfaction in life through his fits, his weapons, and in his bed. He plans to leave England for Spain where he will serve as a mercenary, until the King changes his plans. He tends to ignore court ritual and bed every pretty wench who looks his way, which has earned him the King's displeasure. He has therefore been made the earl of Kildare and King Henry decrees he must go to Ireland. He is half-English and half-Irish; consequently exempt from the law forbidding the English to marry the Irish. He's take possession of Langmore Castle, the home of the O'Shea family. The O'Sheas are a rebellious lot, and bear watching. Kieran is ordered to suppress the rebellion, enforce the peace, organize the army, and marry and breed one of the four O'Shea sisters. <br />Recognizing Kieran for the rogue that he is, Maeve would like to dismiss Kieran out of hand for being English and a warrior. She considers him both primal and primitive. His kisses are like spiced mead, and he tastes like pure temptation. Betrothed to another, she's shocked he chooses to marry her, despite the fact she's not a virgin. Further, she had thought Kieran, who loves teasing and has a bloodthirsty nature, would consider the rape of women part of the spoils of war. So when he proves his heart by finishing a cradle for her sister, because the father is dead, and comforting another sister who was raped, Maeve finds herself torn between his warrior nature and his kindness. <br />People listen to Maeve and respect her word. She refuses to present herself as challenging. Kieran would enjoy nothing more than conquering her. But she wants no part of him, only peace. Indeed, she only married him for the hope of peace in Ireland. As part of the rebellion, she must her role as scribe and messenger hidden at all cost. As Kieran comes to their chambers, Maeve desires him even as she believes that her body has betrayed her. To fight herattraction for him, she asks that he wait a fortnight before they share a bed, to give her time to grow used to their sudden marriage. During this time she must spend an hour alone with him each evening, and he will only touch her with one hand and his mouth. <br />Shelley Bradley weaves a fascinating tale of desire and passion. Maeve quickly learns what a tease a single hand and a mouth can provide! These spirited and wonderfully believable characters provide a marvelous read. THE REBEL BRIDE's sensual love story stirs the senses and the emotions. Highly recommended.	2001-03-31
2052158:US	49693975	R1QTCIWYF3BKEN	0373259174	523236541	Personal Relations (The Personal Touch)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	personal ads once again strike a personal note!	Readers who loved the last The Personal Touch! novel will cheer the return of the personal ad that changes lives in PERSONAL RELATIONS, the latest fun novel of this miniseries by Heather MacAllister. <br />When Courtney places a personal ad in Attitudes, seeking a valentine for her older sister, a fellow classmate by the name of Jeff responds. These high school seniors are determined their elder siblings will put personal relations ahead of work. And if they have to say they are getting married to achieve the desired response, then that's just what they will do.<br />Jeff's brother has life all planned out for him, believing his younger ex-step brother should follow in his footsteps. Likewise, Brook refuses to allow her younger sister to follow her dream of attending acting school. So Jeff and Brook decide that if they can get their elder siblings dating, they might gain more control over their lives and their plans for the future. But when a casual introduction becomes impossible, Jeff and Courtney announce they are getting married, bringing Brook and Chase into tremendous conflict.<br />PERSONAL RELATIONS is over the top on the risqué meter! I giggled from beginning to end, and the bit about the panties had me rolling! The tension and the sizzle of this novel is extraordinary. MacAllister has gift for making the risqué funny. These characters are believable, humorous and delightful. And the unexpected twist at the end certainly caught me by surprise. Very highly recommended.	2001-03-29
2053279:US	49693975	R2Z3JZROZ78GEM	0373709765	327409243	Count on Me (Harlequin Superromance No. 976)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A powerful tale of trust -- very highly recommended	Zoe Caufield's unhappy fortieth birthday took months of recovery. She caught the man she loved -- the man who was about to declare his love and propose -- in his ex-wife's arms. Rather than protesting his innocence, his confession of unfaithfulness left Zoe devastated, especially when he stated his intentions to reconcile with Elizabeth, and move back home with her and their teen daughter.<br />It only took Kurt a month to recognize what a horrible mistake he had made. The very reasons that ended his marriage the first time almost immediately reemerged, but concern for his daughter led him to stay a year, until Lauren graduated from high school. After the first three months, his life became a living hell. After leaving Elizabeth, Kurt learns that the teen clinic in Bayview Heights has been approved, but only if he runs it. Not only is that a stipulation of the town council, but it is also a part of the stipulation of the federal grant that funds the clinic. So Kurt must move back to Bayview Heights -- a move that necessitates frequent interaction with the high school's health teacher.<br />Despite the depression, pain, and disappointment, Zoe got on with her life. She traveled, spent time with friends, enjoyed her job with her classes, teaching At Risk kids, as well as health classes. Although she still misses Kurt desperately, Zoe's learned to be happy without him. Only now he's suddenly back, part of her circle of friends, interaction professionally, and Zoe must cope with still loving him despite the pain he inflicted. Indeed, her love for her students leads to frequent interaction with Kurt, and leads to the question of whether she can learn to count on him again.<br />Katheryn Shay boldly presents a challenging theme in COUNT ON ME that I would ordinarily find untenable, simply because I have little patience for unfaithfulness. However, her heart-touching, sympathetic approach, gently working out both side's emotions kept me reading, and by the conclusion I realized that I indeed was rooting not only for the reconciliation, but also believed in the possibility of what I ordinarily would consider impossible. To challenge my opinion and win my sympathy demonstrates Shay's powerful story-telling ability. Further, the depth of characterization of not only the main characters, but also the secondary characters, speaks of first-hand knowledge of teens, challenges, and matters of the heart. Consequently, COUNT ON ME comes very highly recommended.	2001-03-28
2053844:US	49693975	R3GABXXL9MAC2O	0373709730	353577202	Fugitive Mom (Harlequin Superromance No. 973)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A mother will do anything for her child -- very highly recom	Foster mother Grace Bennett lives every mother's nightmare the day she walks from court knowing her child will be returned to his birth mother in four days. Never mind that drug addict, ex-con Kerry Pope signed custody papers when the child was three months old, and never sent the first birthday or Christmas card. Never mind her questionable past or undetermined future. <br />Grace leaves behind her position as a professor at the university, her cats, her friends, and every other vestige of her life to protect the child she loves.<br />Rather than relinquish the child, she goes underground instead. With the assistance of her parents, her father's a retired police officer, she meets Luke Sarkov, the only person who can help her. Together they are determined to prove Kerry unfit, and regain custody of the child. Luke's own past overshadows his resolve to restore young Charlie to his mother. As he finds his reserve crumbling, and he begins growing closer to Grace, he comes to understand himself, and the marriage he must leave behind. As his unexpected feelings for Grace grow, he finds he can't resurrect the walls that have always protected his feelings and the past.<br />Battling her own doubts about impending motherhood, FBI Special Agent Renee Paynter is on the fast track. She's determined to win a promotion with this case, little suspecting the impact it will have on her own values and decisions. She relentlessly follows Grace, absolutely intent upon following the law and her own professional benefits. That is, until realizes the full implications of her actions, not only professionally, but on her own values.<br />Intense, heart stopping, and heart rendering, FUGITIVE MOM is a must read. With amazing insight, Erickson peals back the layers of three women, the biological mother, the adoptive mother, and the FBI agent assigned to enforce the law, to reveal the vulnerabilities of love gone wrong, and love gone right. The secondary characters deepen the story and add atouch of the dramatic, making FUGITIVE MOM very highly recommended.	2001-03-27
2054392:US	49693975	R3ROV8Z05XS8YG	1929925387	966195573	The Heretic	Books	5	7	8	N	N	He is a shadow -- Very highly recommended	As computer records create reality, then those who control the records control reality. In this case, The Guild controls the power to create and destroy lives. Supposedly to protect its members, their identities are totally protected. Unfortunately, those who were charged with protection have grown to enjoy its power.<br />A former FBI agent, The Heretic deletes all references to himself, essentially deleting his existence, priding himself as untraceable and unstoppable. Without bank records, credit, ownership, or any other tangible evidence leading to his existence, The Heretic keeps himself safely alive; that is, until someone finds him through the Internet. The Heretic leaves behind his safe Montana ranch to find who is robbing and blackmailing major corporations across the country. Traveling to Atlanta, The Heretic finds his life on the line as hitmen persue him online and in real life.<br />THE HERETIC blends fast-paced action with the fantasy elements of virtual reality to create a novel of sophistication and startling insight. As an Atlanta resident, I can't help being impressed with the author's knowledge of this area, using the geography to colorfully depict this absorbing novel. Indeed, the writing style, the plot and the characterization earn highest marks, crossing genres and impossibilities to become Very highly recommended.	2001-03-27
2054636:US	49693975	R3MKOBOLGCA6PT	1583457348	356959284	All I Want for Christmas Is You	Books	5	122	129	N	N	Christmas magic is right anytime - highly recommended	When she waddled across the stage to receive her diploma, Lauren Alexander's family was mortified by her pregnancy. Arranging for an adoption, her family hopes Lauren can attend college and survive the family scandal. However, the young mother could not bring herself to sign those adoption papers, leaving town with only her savings and her daughter cradled in her arms. Now Kristen is six, and Lauren struggles to provide all the things her daughter needs. Unfortunately, there's not much left for things like Christmas.<br />Kyle Preston remembers standing in court at the age of twelve when his father gave him to the state. Foster homes didn't seem to want the boy as much as the check, until his adoptive parents gave him the love he needed. Now Kyle is an affluent real estate developer playing Santa Claus in his own mall. When little Kristen gives her a letter, his heart can't help being touched. Rather than doll houses or easy-bake ovens, little Kristen only wants a daddy to help her momma. With Christmas three weeks away, Kyle finds himself sidestepping the promise.<br />But Christmas is the time of magic, touching hearts and bringing them together. Perhaps a dead battery can be a blessing if two hearts can be led to find one another. And author Lisa Mondello certainly knows how to bring magic together with love. ALL I WANT FOR CHRISTMAS proves a charming novel whether the time be Christmas or summer. With warm characters, a enduring child, and house full of wonderful secondary characters, ALL I WANT FOR CHRISTMAS comes highly recommended.	2001-03-27
2054803:US	49693975	R3SZHLDZN2NVEX	1929613423	178864466	Della	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Terrific fun -- Highly recommended	Determined to overcome her background, spirited Della Garland works had to succeed. Six years at Universal City Globe Travel has allowed her move from entry level to challenging for the promised management position. Unfortunately, twelve-hour days and new business aren't enough to garner the promotion she deserves; and the insults concerning her need for polish concerning clothes and deportment hurt. When her boss Jack Davis calls her bluff, Della hands in the resignation letter, and her boss hustles her unceremoniously out the door. <br />Jack blackballs Della, and she finds it impossible to find work with another travel agency. Then a call comes from a former client, asking her to work in house handling their travel needs. Suddenly Della finds life flourishing on the fast track. She buries her sordid past in the flurry of the present, learning appropriate clothing rituals and handling her new position with aplomb. Finally everything looks up. Then she finds out the sexy man she's fallen for has a disputable past that threatens everything she's worked so hard to gain. <br />With a remarkable flair, Julie Gettys presents a novel filled with secrets, deception, lies, and deceit balanced by a rich cast of characters. DELLA is one of those wonderful, spirited novels that move one to tears and compassion even as you cheer the heroine's success. Indeed, DELLA's triumphant finale makes this a novel to treasure. Highly recommend.	2001-03-27
2056964:US	49693975	R36032I924WNZ6	0373709749	9771702	That Woman in Wyoming: Hometown U.S.A. (Harlequin Superromance No. 974)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Just one kiss changes everything -- very highly recommended	Bounty hunter Max Gardner follows a lead for his quarry, Richard Carmichael, to Serenity, Wyoming. There he reaches a dead end, unable to locate either Richard or his sister. But he does meet Reagan McKenna, a beautiful red headed widow with two teen daughters. Their banter proves they have nothing in common except mutual desire. Although Max will soon move on, they can't seem to resist growing closer in the short time they will have together. <br />When Max introduces himself to Reagan, he describes his job as &quot;acquisitions.&quot; Seems appropriate since he can't possibly let the rumor mill learn either what he does or whom he seeks. Yet the more time he spends in Serenity and with Reagan, the more he wants to stay. Just one kiss makes him want all the things he's previously rejected, like permanence, picket fences, homework, a home.<br />When her brother unexpectedly arrives while she and Max cuddle on the front porch, Max knows he must tell Reagan the truth. But he doesn't know how he can possibly tell the woman that he loves that he's here to arrest her brother. As he gets to know Richard the following day, flying kites and chatting, Max's dilemma only becomes more complicated.<br />THAT WOMAN IN WYOMING is an engaging read, written with an excellent understanding of teen girls. The characters are richly developed remaining with the reader long after the last page is turned. Indeed, the rock climbing, determined daughter adds a realistic and entertaining flair to the novel, underscoring the difficult decisions parents must often make, and the mistakes they often make. Very highly recommended.	2001-03-24
2060277:US	49693975	RGUFSU8BHMXUA	1929034601	592515766	The Body Shop	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Irreverent, humorous, and grotesque--very highly recommended	In the novella THE BODY SHOP, Patrick Welch challenges the imagination in post-Apocalyptic America. Graff Pauley desires to become a part of the Privileged rank, the only people who still enjoy wealth and peace. To make money, he supplies body parts to Edgerton, a modern-day Frankenstein. <br />A talking human head greets visitors to Edgerton's store. Most of the wares are for show anyway, as Edgerton makes his money selling body parts not selling his pawn goods. A medical school dropout, Edgerton achieves in miracles through voodoo. <br />An accidental meeting brings Pauley together with Violet Dreams, the woman who epitomizes the mindless, wealthy seeking entertainment in sex and drugs. Together, they become not Edgerton's victims, but his conquerors. <br />THE BODY SHOP anthology also includes twelve previously published and unpublished short stories. My favorite demonstrates just how invisible some of us have become in within our own society. Irreverent, humorous, and grotesque, Patrick Welch vividly and statistically comments on darkest fears and our darkest desires. Very highly recommended.	2001-03-21
2060411:US	49693975	R3ST7L1W21H7VC	1586972774	978398222	Ragnarok : Saga of the Night Guard Legion, Song of the Valkyrie, Book I, Episode I	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very highly recommended	In RAGNAROK: SAGA OF THE NIGHT GUARD LEGION, author C. R. MacPhadrick seamlessly weaves science fiction and fantasy to create a rich tapestry reminiscent of Norse legend. <br />A rigid society of women warriors, the Valkyrie, protects one man, their Laird, from the perils of an always-fatal disease. Legend tells of a shadowy cult known as the Followers of the Sun who would destroy the Valkyerie, although with a thousand years of telling, few still believed the prophesies. Then a colt is born of unusual color, so black as to be blue, to the Night Guard Legion. The colt chooses Angelica to trust, until the day when a great Laird will ride it against the Followers of the Sun. <br />Before Angelica, a Centurien of the Legion, can lead the Colt and her Centurie, she must pass a dangerous test to prove her loyalty. Enduring extreme hardship, she and her Sword Sister, Alea, must now take the Colt on a dangerous path to a gathering of all the legions. Unfortunately, the Followers have infiltrated the Legion, and follow the Centurie, intent upon destroying Angelica's Centurie and the Colt. Deadly battles and natural disasters plague the Centurie through dangerous passes and deadly peril. Written in vivid detail, these fearful occurrences are rendered with appropriate detail and heart stopping action. <br />Women once practiced their own exclusive methods of shamanism, witchcraft, magick, and divination, but lost the knowledge when patriarchal religions and governments forbade their practice. Author C. R. MacPhadrick recreates these powerful legendary Valkyries; that is, fearless warrior-women of the Norse tradition, bringing their fierce strength, power and passion to his monumental work. Remarkable in scope, written with a deep respect of feminine power, RAGNAROK: SAGA OF THE NIGHT GUARD LEGION comes Very highly recommended.	2001-03-21
2060428:US	49693975	R18KAGQJ66IAHY	1586971050	954243058	The Wedding Game	Books	4	1	1	N	N	warm romance with a bit of a tingle -- recommended	Child care owner Victoria Harlow cannot believe the stipulations of her grandmother's ill. A traditional lady, her aunt dictates that she must marry someone from her list, or at least a man of property, in order to retain ownership of the property which includes not just her business but also her home. The lawyer acknowledges that while the will is archaic, it's also perfectly legal and cannot be successfully contested. If she doesn't marry, and soon, everything will be auctioned off.<br />Jaded by his past, Sam Benson knows all about greedy, opportunistic women. He's at risk of loosing both his ranch and his child. Sam's previous wife was mentally ill. A widower, Sam was left with a mountain of bills and back taxes, and his wife cleaned out their savings and checking accounts. Now his in-laws want custody of his son Josh, believing that Sam lacks the funds to care for the child properly. <br />Together Tori and Sam can help each other. She can hire him to be her husband, thereby gaining her inheritance. In return, the payment will allow Sam to pay the back taxes, and give him time to raise the money for the remaining bills. However, neither partner considered the consequences of their mutual attraction. Nor did they know about Aunt Sophie's final stipulation in the will -- that they must live together for a year.<br />THE WEDDING GAME is a warm romance with a bit of a tingle. While the plot has often been done, Allison Knight brings a bit of creative imagination to the tale, giving it a flavor not duplicated elsewhere. Unfortuantely, the in-laws are rather flat characters, painted with a broad black brush, and I would have liked to understand them better. They must have loved both their daughter and their grandchild. Further, her understanding of mental illness seems a bit shaky, but the use of color in the hero's home is a hoot! And the way that Tori works at fitting herself into the ranch is wonderful. Recommended.	2001-03-21
2065913:US	49693975	R3308M4PZNJXRJ	082177008X	100629802	Devil May Care	Books	5	39	40	N	N	When the devil and the angel clash--very highly recommended	The notorious rogue Damien Sinclair, Earl of Blackstone delights in his wicked reputation. With the looks of a fallen archangel, Damien gives the women of London plenty of opportunity for flutter and gossip, while the men of London best guard their back doors. With a mother from hell, and a serious lack of loving attention as he grew up, the scars run deep in this intensely sexy man intent upon treating life and love as his own personal game. Yet beneath the rogue lurks a man who can be responsible, as demonstrated by his funding his mother's needs and paying off his deceased father's debts. But the man who would stroke a cat or leave a rose on a lady's window sill remains carefully concealed beneath a façade of decadence. Then he meets Eden.<br />Lady Eden Spencer endures her first season at her Uncle Edward's insistence; she would rather take her vows at the convent where's lived the last six years, since she became an orphan. Since her uncle intends her to marry, and she does not ever wish to marry, she and her cousin Reggie have worked out &quot;The Plan, &quot; a plan that includes the devil himself. Eden intends to sample a bit of the wild like, with Damien as her tutor. She lays down the rules, which include a certain amount of physical distance, but little does she suspect how tempting the devil can be. As Damien introduces her to the wild life, they scale rose trellises and attend games of cards, with Eden dressed as a man. Their remarkable escapes open Eden's eyes to the beauties and the dangers of life outside the convent. Damien's long forgotten softer side also becomes apparent to Eden, make the devil a veritably irresistible. <br />When the devil and the angel clash, they create a heaven of their own making. The escapades and temptations presented in DEVIL MAY CARE had me laughing so hard my oldest son thought I had taken leave of my senses! With these two wonderful characters, not to mention cousin Regie with his wonderful way with words, Melanie George creates a memorable romance that I can't say enough good things about. Engaging, humorous, impossibly touching and remarkable enduring, DEVIL MAY CARE comes very highly recommended.	2001-03-17
2066439:US	49693975	RFL4FVLPU4EKU	0821768301	874274000	The Irish Enchantress (Irish Trilogy)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Love is the only true magic -- very highly recommended	Irish castle folk and English soldiers inhabit GleannTaise Castle once Fionna O'Donnel. English knight Raymond DeClare doesn't know the castle and his king awards him is cursed. It had been a magnificent castle in its day. Now it must be quickly mended before they all freeze to death this winter. To please his king he must also marry an Irish lass. Before his people starve on the land, Raymond must learn that the O'Donnels cursed the land and only magick can lift winter's spell and bring it back to life.<br />The witch Fionna believes the English only want to rule or slaughter. She is also long accustomed to rejection. Ten years ago her father beat her and banished her from home. If she wishes to forget what happened, the scars on her back serve a perpetual reminder. Now her daughter lives with friends, and she visits only in secret. Despite her banishment, Fionna protects the sacred circle, the fairies, and all else that is sacred. Fionna descends from the ancient ones who tended the earth, their blood running strongly in her veins.<br />Fionna wants to hate Raymond, blame him for all the atrocities reaped on Ireland. Yet she healed Raymond once, then clouded him mind with herbs so he would forget her. When she sees him again, his horse bears down on three children in the road. Using magic, she pushes the children from harm and causes the stallion to stop -- unintentionally throwing the rider. He refuses her help, blaming her for the accident. When her hood falls aside, her beauty bewitches him.<br />Raymond's soul screams recognition, but he knows not why. Then in a moment he remembers that she once saved his life. She reminds him what he must know, that she is a witch. All the while Raymond denies the power of incantations and spells, refusing the truth. Indeed, the law dictates that he takes her life if she persists in her claim. As he looks at her with rage and disgust, Fionna walks away. Like the villagers, Raymond makes her feel shunned and rejected. He vows she'll never know that she's the reason he left Ireland six years ago. Nor admit her eyes have haunted him all this time. And neither can deny the connection that burns between them.<br />Amy J. Fetzer writes with knowledge and respect for the old ways, understanding elements, fairies, and those who call themselves witches. With a creative flair for storytelling, she weaves an extraordinary tale of magick and love, creating an absolutely memorable tale novel. Her secondary characters, especially the fairie, are absolutely delightful! THE IRISH ENCHANRESS held me spell bound, beginning to end! Very highly recommended.she'll never know that she's the reason he left Ireland six years ago. Nor admit her eyes have haunted him all this time. And neither can deny the connection that burns between them.<br />Amy J. Fetzer writes with knowledge and respect for the old ways, understanding elements, fairies, and those who call themselves witches. With a creative flair for storytelling, she weaves an extraordinary tale of magick and love, creating an absolutely memorable tale novel. Her secondary characters, especially the fairie, are absolutely delightful! THE IRISH ENCHANRESS held me spell bound, beginning to end! Very highly recommended.	2001-03-16
2066459:US	49693975	R1OUWFVH6Y6EY1	0821770128	854400867	Loving Lily (Daughters of Liberty)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An engaging tale -- very highly recommended	From the parlors of Colonial Williamsburg, three beautiful women, each named for a flower, aid the Patriot cause. Along the way, they shape the course of their own destinies with their courage and wit. As each faces formidable challenges, each wins the man she loves. This is the first novel, LOVING LILY.<br /> Spirited Lily Walters was more concerned with providing for herself and her younger brother than winning a husband, which is how she came to still be single in her early twenties. Necessity brought about a career as a florist, taking advantage of the latest rage in London. Little did Lily suspect how useful her career would be to the Patriot cause. When she realizes her brother Peter has become involved with the Sons of Liberty, Lily determines ways to aid the cause herself. After Adam Pearson arrives in town, and the Patriots begin preparing for war, messages are passed using the specific flowers chosen for her arrangements for the meanings that the different flowers represent. In addition, as Lily moves freely among the Tory's entertainment, she gathers information to aid the cause. Occasional stolen moments with Adam make clear the heated passion between them.<br />Adam curses his many identities; that which was created to protect him now holds him prisoner. He's met the first woman he's ever wanted to offer anything real of himself, and he cannot. As Squire Adare Sotheby, he hosts and attends various Tory events for the purpose of garnering information. In costume, he's a middle aged, crusty fop -- hardly the kind of man Lily would find attractive. As Adam Pearson, late of Boston and former British, he leads the Patriot movement. In Boston his assignment was to infiltrate the Sons of Liberty movement. When his commanding officer becomes aware he left the colony, Colonel Ware follows him to Virginia. <br />Corinne Everett creates a masterful tale of subterfuge, danger, and passion in LOVING LILY. With a creative flair, she weaves a plot that moves quickly along, plunging the reader into a dangerous period of history. The characters are warm and engaging, demonstrating Everett to be a master of her craft. Very highly recommended.	2001-03-16
2066482:US	49693975	R3FKSVA8DPQZUA	0821767798	906727651	Once A Rebel: Jewels of the Sea	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Adversaries united in passion -- very highly recommended	In 1760s England, three sisters face danger and adventure on the high seas as pirates to champion their noble causes. Each meets the man who is their destiny, learning to value love more than any pirate's treasure. ONCE A REBEL, the second novel of the miniseries, is the story of Joanna Fisk, the fiery redhead who will stop at nothing to achieve her purpose.<br />Joanna only attends the ball to please her elder sister. Attired in fabulous dress and feathered mask, her emerald eyes suite the name rumor gives her, &quot;The Emerald of London.&quot; Using the rumor to her own advantage, Joanna gains an introduction to Nathan Alcott, a man who represents all that she despises most. But she can't resist the thrill of attraction, the electric connection they share. <br />Preferring her own company to the partygoers as they step into the dining room, Joanna escapes to her brother-in-law's study. There she overhears just enough information that, if she takes to the seas, will solve her pressing issue. Too often Joanna feels she's let down those who needed her, especially her little brother and Sammy who both died, and she won't let down the rest of the children. Nathan is borrowing her brother-in-law's ship and headed to France with $50,000 in gold. Plenty to pirate and use to provide much needed food and shelter for the orphans of London's streets.<br />The attack on her adversary was fiercer than Joanna planned, causing considerable damage to the ship. When she boards and her crew captures the gold, however, Nathan doesn't give up the money without a fight. In a desperate sword fight, Nathan beats Joanna, but she can't loose the gold. Without thinking, she thrusts her dagger into his side. Devastated by her own actions, Joanna brings both gold and Nathan back to her ship. When she learns the purpose of Nathan's desperate flight to France, she offers her help. Both Joanna and Nathan fight the electricity they share, yet these adversaries must eventually admit the passion that grows between them.<br />This fiery heroine and her rash decisions provide a fast-paced, addictive plot sure to keep the pages turning. Tammy Hilz has a talent for weaving impossible situations and then providing the perfect solution in just the nick of time. ONCE A REBEL is brilliantly-crafted, fabulously rendered, and a must read!...	2001-03-16
2066484:US	49693975	R1I77MRJXL3Q1H	0821768700	577139579	Silver Wind (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Highly recommended	When William Longchamp suddenly wishes to see her, Adeline of Caerdoc feared bad tidings or even death. Longchamp holds the roles of bishop of Ely and chancellor to the King. He has the power of life and death over those in his care. Knowing of Longchamp's ruthless ambition, and her own father's views, Adeline has good reason to fear him. Adeline was kidnapped five long years ago to insure her father's loyalty to the King. Now Longchamp intends to send Adeline home, and in return she must spy on the Norman traitor Simon Taillebroc the priestkiller. If Adeline fails, her father will hang alongside the priestkiller.<br />Adeline feels like a foreigner among her own people. Her mother was Norman, and she's been held in Normandy these five years. Now she's again among her father's people, the Welsh. They treat her not as a stranger, but as though they are afraid. They conceal many secrets and do not wish to reveal themselves before this woman of questionable loyalties. When her father threatens to send Adeline to safety with a cousin, she proposes that she marry Simon instead. She must spy upon Simon, and remain in the valley, if she is to save her family's lives.<br />When Simon watches Adeline's hair in the firelight, he forgets that he is a priestkiller. He forgets the secrets, the politics, and the dangers that separate their worlds. When her father proposes they marry, Simon cannot resist this secretive beauty. Simon has lost everything, including his lands, his wealth and his honor. Now he's loosing his heart to this bewitching woman, even as he suspects her loyalties.<br />Linda Cook's understanding of the medieval period with questionable loyalties and harsh conditions shines throughout SILVER WIND. Independent heroines would not survive long in a medieval world without a deep understanding of this period. Cook surmounts such challenges gracefully. For example, the scenes when Adeline guesses her father's new marriage, and enlists his new wife to help convince her father to allow her to wed, reveal not only a well structured plot, but an understand of how the people of this time truly lived. Cook's prose shimmers with the fierce spirit of those who would survive the danger of divided loyalties. Highly recommended.	2001-03-16
2067044:US	49693975	R1GWLD4UFNV2HB	0373870752	869092547	Since You've Been Gone (Love Inspired #75)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Very highly recommended	Dr. Bailey Tate was irrepressible, irresponsible, and lovable to a fault. He left seven years ago for a two-week mercy mission in the Amazon rainforest. He was presumed dead in a plane crash -- how dare he show up a week before Amanda's wedding. It was only the memory of Amanda that kept him going these long years with the Yanomani Indians. His new eye patch only lends a rakish, dangerous air. <br />Amanda Meadows thinks that she has finally put the bad, confusing times behind her. She has a handsome fiancé, a flourishing career, and a well ordered life. Exactly the wrong time for a husband to turn up -- and hardly the time for the old magnetic pull toward Bailey to manifest itself. She's already lived through the despair of losing a passionate, all-consuming love. And she's engaged to Marcus Stone -- Bailey's former partner. <br />As a tropical storm blows in, Amanda finds herself confronting the past and the future with the man who stole her heart. Sharing a meal suddenly becomes difficult as Bailey's seething lustiness draws her. But she's not the same woman he knew. She's no longer the sweet, submissive wife that put him through med school. Bailey left behind marital problems, huge debt, and a pregnant wife. He came back to an engaged career woman with a national contract to roll out her cookie baking series from coast to coast.<br />SINCE YOU'VE BEEN GONE is a tingly, impossible, totally romantic tale that makes you feel good right down to the toes. This compelling tale rates tops for originality and delight. Bailey's spontaneity and Amanda's assertiveness provide a combustible plot certain to keep the pages turning. Very highly recommended.	2001-03-16
2067079:US	49693975	R6I62567QRYWO	0821767925	135253431	Make-Believe Matrimony (Zebra Bouquet)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very highly recommended	Having fifty million dollars in the bank should have solved all of lottery winning Annie Brown's problems. The trip to Paris was great. So are the new clothes. But the stalking definitely has to stop. Men in tuxedos hanging from trees in her backyard is not only unacceptable, but also terrifying. <br />When the call comes regarding a jackass hanging from a tree, Detective Ryan Armstrong couldn't resist. He had to see this one for himself. When a goddess wearing a terrycloth towel opens the door, it's all Ryan can do to keep his mind on business. It's very clear to him that Comanche Spring's lottery winner is in over her head.<br />While Annie's determined to preserve her lifestyle and independence, Ryan is equally determined to make her understand that she is at risk. So Ryan decides to become her unofficial personal watchdog. When he rescues her from a would-be suitor in a movie theatre, Annie's thrilled. His kiss is pretty thrilling, too. <br />When Ryan continues to rescue her from frightening situations, they finally agree to a plan. They will pretend to be married, thereby discouraging all the would-be suitors. If it works for Cary Grant...but their pretense eventually poses a problem, because now they have to find a way past the pretense to be honest about their feelings.<br />Katherine Shaw's voice is light, pleasant, sexy, and great fun, making MAKE-BELIEVE MATRIMONY a fast paced, wonderful afternoon's read. With just the right touch of sensuality, these characters sizzle! This lovely romantic romp with the heat and flair of the classic Cary Grant movie Indiscreet is Very highly recommended.	2001-03-16
2067113:US	49693975	R1GI6UESXNP7C6	0821770799	817945925	My True Love	Books	5	16	23	N	N	Brilliantly crafted -- Very highly recommended	Lucas Pendleton secured the map of the duke's house from a tavern maid, who assured him that the duke retired to the library after the evening meal. He spent weeks trying to gain a conventional meeting, but his letters went unanswered and his knocks unanswered. Now he intends, with the aid of his brother Matthew, to see that the duke lives up to his obligations to Lucas' family. Surprised by the duke's youth and attractive appearance, it seems odd he would slack his thirst for young women by preying on the innocent. The duke had made Caroline his mistress, and she later died in childbirth. Lucas only came to England from America to confront the duke when he found the letter Caroline had written but never sent. Now Lucas demands recognition for Caroline's young son named Harry. If the duke refuses to acknowledge Harry, Lucas intends to make the scandal public.<br />Penelope Westmoreland had always been the wealthiest, the prettiest, the most sought after girl, but no longer. The excitement of innocent flirtations and romances is gone. Now when she goes out, people laugh behind her back, whispering about how far she has fallen. At twenty, Penelope is past her prime. She had once been betrothed to the Marquis of Belmont, but the week before their wedding, he married his mistress instead. Finally her father arranged a marriage to a Viscount, who unexpectedly died in an accident. <br />Now her father has promised Penelope to Edward Simpson, who just turned sixty-three. Though he's bald and obese, he is a powerful and wealthy earl. When Edward tries to take inappropriate liberties in the garden, Penelope calls out for help. Her rescuer remains to assure her safety, even as he should be leaving to certain of his own. He gives he name, a knife to protect her, and a promise to back the next night.<br />Lucas carefully plans to use Penelope to win the duke's acknowledgement of his nephew. Lucas didn't realize, when he first made his plans, what a palatable, hot, sensual energy would pass between him and Penelope. Lucas is dismayed by his response to the beautiful woman. She was supposed to be the one with the tender response, not him. When he learns Penelope's wedding is moved up to three weeks, Lucas refuses to abandon her to her fate. But Penelope, though she comes away willing, has no idea of the sacrifice she's about to make, or the ways her life will forever change, for the sake of revenge.<br />Cheryl Holtz pens a strong, yet charming and compelling tale, weaving wonderful secondary characters into her vivid tapestry. With deft skill, she muddies the motives and complicates the lives of her characters, holding the reader's attention rapt with her machinations. This brilliantly crafted romance is Very highly recommended.	2001-03-16
2067445:US	49693975	R1DTBBYP40RFR	0821767925	135253431	Make-Believe Matrimony (Zebra Bouquet)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very highly recommended -- a fun read	Having fifty million dollars in the bank should have solved all of lottery winning Annie Brown's problems. The trip to Paris was great. So are the new clothes. But the stalking definitely has to stop. Men in tuxedos hanging from trees in her backyard is not only unacceptable, but also terrifying. <br />When the call comes regarding a jackass hanging from a tree, Detective Ryan Armstrong couldn't resist. He had to see this one for himself. When a goddess wearing a terrycloth towel opens the door, it's all Ryan can do to keep his mind on business. It's very clear to him that Comanche Spring's lottery winner is in over her head.<br />While Annie's determined to preserve her lifestyle and independence, Ryan is equally determined to make her understand that she is at risk. So Ryan decides to become her unofficial personal watchdog. When he rescues her from a would-be suitor in a movie theatre, Annie's thrilled. His kiss is pretty thrilling, too. <br />When Ryan continues to rescue her from frightening situations, they finally agree to a plan. They will pretend to be married, thereby discouraging all the would-be suitors. If it works for Cary Grant...but their pretense eventually poses a problem, because now they have to find a way past the pretense to be honest about their feelings.<br />Katherine Shaw's voice is light, pleasant, sexy, and great fun, making MAKE-BELIEVE MATRIMONY a fast paced, wonderful afternoon's read. With just the right touch of sensuality, these characters sizzle! This lovely romantic romp with the heat and flair of the classic Cary Grant movie Indiscreet is Very highly recommended.	2001-03-16
2067492:US	49693975	RB0AFWJZWD0LH	0821768646	266725756	More Than a Dream (Angels of Mercy) (Ballad Romances)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Love in the midst of war -- very highly recommended	When she arrives at her father's home following her nursing service with Florence Nightingale in Turkey, Catherine Stanhope feels like a ghost walking in an unreal world. Rather than the opera, social calls and other pleasures of civilization that her father wishes her to engage in, Catherine can only retire to her room and remember. Yet her father and everyone else would have her forget, and certainly never speak of, the time she spent nursing in Turkey.<br />Her father arranges her marriage to her friend Julian, despite her protestations that she will never marry because she is determined to be a nurse. To keep her father happy, she and Julian agree to an engagement in name only, since they are both off to the war, and plan to break their engagement upon their return to England. But their war torn spirits may dictate a different course. When she left Turkey, Julian lay severely injured, with the same distant chilly look in his eyes that she sees every day in the mirror. And now she must marry him, she thinks, because she could not jilt a man who had been so seriously injured, nor could she abandon such a dear friend. However, Julian would have nothing of it.<br />Only a few of her fellow nurses and Dr. Michael Soames understand her need to be a nurse. Although Michael had come to appreciate her talents he also believed the worst about her character. The Army had not wanted female nurses, and their behavior had to be absolutely circumspect. Unfortunately, Catherine had inadvertently given them ammunition to use against female nurses, and was promptly sent home by Florence Nightingale herself. Just when Catherine finally creates the opportunity to truly nurse and feels successful. Crushed, she boarded the next ship bound for Malta and then England.<br />When Catherine returns to England, she thinks she'll never see Michael again. She misses nursing desperately, eventually applying at a hospital for the poor. She's shocked to find Michael there applying for work as well. They've only shared a single kiss but that memory has been seared into her. Even as she throws herself into anguishing work, Catherine can't forget her feelings for the doctor. She finds herself longing for the very thing she's rejected -- love.<br />Martha Schroeder creates an amazingly complex and beautifully composed story about love in the midst of human anguish. With a deep understanding of the restrictions that women faced as well as those emotions common to us all, MORE THAN A DREAM is a richly satisfying read. A powerful story, MORE THAN A DREAM is a keeper. Very highly recommended.	2001-03-16
2067723:US	49693975	R13ZB0R48B6PZV	0821766783	883809362	Renegade Heart	Books	5	2	11	N	N	Love is the only true magic -- very highly recommended	Irish castle folk and English soldiers inhabit GleannTaise Castle once Fionna O'Donnel. English knight Raymond DeClare doesn't know the castle and his king awards him is cursed. It had been a magnificent castle in its day. Now it must be quickly mended before they all freeze to death this winter. To please his king he must also marry an Irish lass. Before his people starve on the land, Raymond must learn that the O'Donnels cursed the land and only magick can lift winter's spell and bring it back to life.<br />The witch Fionna believes the English only want to rule or slaughter. She is also long accustomed to rejection. Ten years ago her father beat her and banished her from home. If she wishes to forget what happened, the scars on her back serve a perpetual reminder. Now her daughter lives with friends, and she visits only in secret. Despite her banishment, Fionna protects the sacred circle, the fairies, and all else that is sacred. Fionna descends from the ancient ones who tended the earth, their blood running strongly in her veins.<br />Fionna wants to hate Raymond, blame him for all the atrocities reaped on Ireland. Yet she healed Raymond once, then clouded him mind with herbs so he would forget her. When she sees him again, his horse bears down on three children in the road. Using magic, she pushes the children from harm and causes the stallion to stop -- unintentionally throwing the rider. He refuses her help, blaming her for the accident. When her hood falls aside, her beauty bewitches him. <br />Raymond's soul screams recognition, but he knows not why. Then in a moment he remembers that she once saved his life. She reminds him what he must know, that she is a witch. All the while Raymond denies the power of incantations and spells, refusing the truth. Indeed, the law dictates that he takes her life if she persists in her claim. As he looks at her with rage and disgust, Fionna walks away. Like the villagers, Raymond makes her feel shunned and rejected. He vowsshe'll never know that she's the reason he left Ireland six years ago. Nor admit her eyes have haunted him all this time. And neither can deny the connection that burns between them.<br />Amy J. Fetzer writes with knowledge and respect for the old ways, understanding elements, fairies, and those who call themselves witches. With a creative flair for storytelling, she weaves an extraordinary tale of magick and love, creating an absolutely memorable tale novel. Her secondary characters, especially the fairie, are absolutely delightful! THE IRISH ENCHANRESS held me spell bound, beginning to end! Very highly recommended.	2001-03-15
2067802:US	49693975	R3U8O5H368JAE3	0821770128	854400867	Loving Lily (Daughters of Liberty)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An engaging tale -- very highly recommended	From the parlors of Colonial Williamsburg, three beautiful women, each named for a flower, aid the Patriot cause. Along the way, they shape the course of their own destinies with their courage and wit. As each faces formidable challenges, each wins the man she loves. This is the first novel, LOVING LILY.<br /> Spirited Lily Walters was more concerned with providing for herself and her younger brother than winning a husband, which is how she came to still be single in her early twenties. Necessity brought about a career as a florist, taking advantage of the latest rage in London. Little did Lily suspect how useful her career would be to the Patriot cause. When she realizes her brother Peter has become involved with the Sons of Liberty, Lily determines ways to aid the cause herself. After Adam Pearson arrives in town, and the Patriots begin preparing for war, messages are passed using the specific flowers chosen for her arrangements for the meanings that the different flowers represent. In addition, as Lily moves freely among the Tory's entertainment, she gathers information to aid the cause. Occasional stolen moments with Adam make clear the heated passion between them.<br />Adam curses his many identities; that which was created to protect him now holds him prisoner. He's met the first woman he's ever wanted to offer anything real of himself, and he cannot. As Squire Adare Sotheby, he hosts and attends various Tory events for the purpose of garnering information. In costume, he's a middle aged, crusty fop -- hardly the kind of man Lily would find attractive. As Adam Pearson, late of Boston and former British, he leads the Patriot movement. In Boston his assignment was to infiltrate the Sons of Liberty movement. When his commanding officer becomes aware he left the colony, Colonel Ware follows him to Virginia. <br />Corinne Everett creates a masterful tale of subterfuge, danger, and passion in LOVING LILY. With a creative flair, she weaves a plot that moves quickly along, plunging the reader into a dangerous period of history. The characters are warm and engaging, demonstrating Everett to be a master of her craft. Very highly recommended.	2001-03-15
2068328:US	49693975	RLKSIFBPDS0FA	082176781X	810525406	The Star-Crossed Bride (Once upon a Wedding)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	An improbable delight! -- highly recommended	THE STAR-CROSSED BRIDE is the third novel of the Once Upon a Wedding miniseries by Kelly McClymer. The Fensters separate themselves from Victorian society in one distinctive way -- rather than adhering to the grim convention of marrying for wealth or title, they choose to marry for love. <br />Three years ago Valentine Fenster and his beloved Emily Wertherley attempted to elope because her family would not have considered Valentine an acceptable match. Indeed, Emily's mother has her eyes set on becoming a marchioness, at the very least. Valentine, as only a Viscount, did not possess a sufficiently powerful enough title. Unfortunately, when they stopped for a bite to eat, Emily's cousin Simon stood before them. Admitting that he'd rather die before he heart Emily, Valentine allows Simon to lead her away. Emily believes his words indicate that marrying him would hurt her; inferring that her reputation has more value than her heart.<br />Emily's first two betrothals ended when the men died before reaching the altar. Now she's engaged to Lord Granbury, the wedding waiting until her year of mourning for her father has passed. Lady Granbury does not welcome Valentine's arrival at her castle, and resents his intrusion. Further, she does not listen to Valentine's warnings regarding Emily's intended husband. Lady Granbury believes desire for Emily overrides Valentine's concerns, and will not hear the truth of his message because she believes this to be the last chance to restore her daughter's reputation and position in society.<br />Determined to warn Emily himself, Valentine watches the castle and contemplates how to reach her. Not knowing he waits below, Emily makes a rope from her bed sheet, exciting the castle through her window. When she lets go to drop to the ground, she lands in Valentine's arms. He tells her they cannot run away together, however, because it would ruin her reputation. He convinces her to sneak back in through the kitchen, accompanies her to her roomfor a moment, and eats food she refused earlier. Too bad they didn't know the beverage had been drugged.  As the impossible situation goes from bad to worse, the reader cannot possibly refrain from thoroughly enjoying their escapades. <br />While many miniseries are centered around the women that connect the series, Kelly McClymer breaks convention herself by choosing to champion the brother of this family. Further, while the plot is at times entirely improbable, the delight and humor that McClymer brings to her writing makes it thoroughly enjoyable. An absolutely delightful read, I highly recommend THE STAR-CROSSED BRIDE.	2001-03-15
2068637:US	49693975	R3VAIEOVXDP46V	0821767895	687091610	A Matter Of Honor: The Destiny Coin	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A stolen kiss makes the difference -- very highly recommded	A MATTER OF HONOR is the third of the miniseries, The Destiny Coin, by Gabriella Anderson. For generations, an ancient coin has passed from mother to daughter -- a symbol of luck and accepting that one special love. As each woman holds the coin in her hand, she accepts the passion for which they are destined.<br />Lorane St. John would rather be repotting ferns than standing in front of a seamstress with a mouth full of pins. Her third London season doesn't promise any better results than the first two for this botanist. She dreams one day of publishing a book on plants with her own drawings as illustrations -- hardly the kind of aspirations society men find acceptable. Eager to escape the season, the season, and her mother, Lorane stows away on an American bound ship.<br />When Captain Nicholas Grant offered a tour of his ship to his family, he scarcely guessed that not only would Lorane come along, but stow away aboard ship when it sailed. The third day at sea, Lorane finds herself caught by the cook when she tries to raid the kitchen. Nicholas is outraged, but after a healthy tongue lashing, gives up his cabin to Lorane. Her presence, as the sole woman aboard ship, gives Nicholas great concern. Her reputation is at stake, not to mention what his fiancée will think. As Lorane lays claim to the various men, and boy, aboard, her effect upon the ship cannot be missed. Though he claims to be eager to see his very proper fiancée, Isabelle, Lorane's presence disturbs him. As she enchants him more and more, perhaps he'll finally realize that Isabelle isn't the right woman for him after all. <br />A MATTER OF HONOR makes for a number of delightful hours of escapist reading. The characters are warm, spirited, and interesting. With a deft pen, Gabriella Anderson easily captures the love and passion that leads to questioning one's own values and dreams. After all, it's A MATTER OF HONOR. Very highly recommended.	2001-03-15
2068971:US	49693975	R3VIFE1NQSIAHV	0821768786	61573638	Cowboy For Hire (Ballad Romances)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A fascinating glimpse of silent movies -- highly recommended	In the 1905, the years of silent movies, the action is as exciting off-screen as it was on-screen. Unlike many young women with stars in their eyes, however, Amy Wilkes is more sensible than dreamy. Her goals in life are clear. An orphan, she doesn't dream of a silver screen, but a tidy home and family -- a life of predictability and security. Then an unexpected opportunity turns her world up side down. <br />As Amy toils in an attempt to get the ungrateful to follow the regimen prescribed by her uncle's health spa, she longs for the very things she sees the ungrateful throwing away. Amy unknowingly making quite the impression on screen star Horace Huxtable who is visiting her uncle's spa in an effort to dry out. Huxtable makes the unexpected demand that she be his co-star in Peerless Studio's One and Only. Although Huxtable is more interested in Amy's body than her acting ability, director Martin Tafft agrees, convincing Amy to accept. Huxable immediately begins to plan her seduction. <br />Charlie Fox thinks that all that dramatic foolery for the camera is silly. But the money is good, and would let him buy his own cattle spread. Besides, acting sure beats working an ostrich farm. Charlie hasn't been around very many beautiful women, and finds himself acting a bit out of character, cussing when Amy seems to put on airs. Nevertheless, as Huxtable's drunken behavior brings Amy and Charlie together, she finds herself drawn to his practical and earthy ways. <br />Alice Duncan's knowledge of the era brings a sparkle to COWBOY FOR HIRE. She beautifully captures a time when drinking was frowned upon, women didn't smoke, and cussing was discouraged, capitalizing on its conventions. While some of the conventions of the time make the story a bit heavy handed, the insight balances the novel out nicely. Highly recommended.	2001-03-14
2069164:US	49693975	R3QSQ482WR1QZW	0821767747	693597317	Too Good To Be True	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A terrific, fun read! Highly recommended	Toilet paper tycoon Archie Peevers of Peevers Mansion just outside of Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, doesn't trust his nearest and dearest who may just be out to kill him for his money. So he hires bodyguard Grady Sullivan and formulates a plan. Knowing none of his relatives have the gumption to pull a trigger or slit his throat, Archie assumes someone will try poison, pills, a midnight trip down the stairs. <br />To keep everyone off kilter, Archie produces the obligatory missing heir. Annie Kimble is beautiful, intelligent, and trouble. Indeed, Annie has been hired to pretend she is his granddaughter from a liaison fifty years ago. Annie's a delightful character who first endured Archie's scare tactics and then a pinch behind before he announced that she's perfect for what he has in mind. Annie has her own agenda: fifty thousand dollars for one month's work of driving Archie's family insane for fun and profit. <br />As the Machiavellian plot escalates, Grady falls for Annie. So now not only does Grady find himself protecting an eccentric old man, but also a sharp young woman who is filing a 1099 on her proceeds. Events move along quickly as Archie's orange juice is laced with arsenic. Someone fires a crossbow through the window at Archie. As the tension builds, so do the laughs, keeping the reader highly entertained.<br />The sequel of TAKE MY EYES OFF OF YOU, TOO GOOD TO BE TRUE is a masterpiece of characterizations. This eccentric cast of characters keeps the plot moving along delightfully, keeping the reader guessing. I admit that the butler is my favorite secondary character with his snide observations, shred opinions, and Lurch-like appearance. Indeed, a light, humorous read with a touch of romance, Kasey Michaels has created an entertaining romantic suspense novel too good to miss. Highly recommended.	2001-03-14
2069343:US	49693975	R1KT8N3759X0XD	0821769235	73162910	Long Way Home	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Engaging -- very highly recommended	After 2,555 days in prison, Duncan Malone must shake the smell, sounds, and other taints of prison life. The worst smell was of hopelessness, defeat, and anger. With no where else to go, Duncan returns to his farm in Wichita, Texas, although it now belongs to a stranger by the name of Virgil Lewis. As the truck driver pulls out, leaving Duncan in front of the small town restaurant Good Eats, everyone watches his entrance. Waitress Franki Taylor, seven months pregnant, can't help noting his good looks as he takes a seat with his back to the crowd. Too bad Ada, the lady at the cash register, publicly recognizes him before he can even order. She reminds everyone he spent eight years in prison for the death of bank president Robert Sims Senior. <br />With her grandfather Virgil in the hospital with a lung infection, Franki must hire some help for the farm. Since the father of baby, Bobby Sims who's now married to another woman, is the president of the only bank in town, everyone listens when he says he doesn't want anyone to help Franki; in fact, he'd just as soon that she left town. Duncan wants to work for Franki so he can in Wichita near his mother who lies comatose in a nursing home. Despite Bobby's objections, Franki hires Duncan risking the mortgage as Bobby retaliates. Adversity brings Franki and Duncan together, and as love blossoms, they must both cope with the Sims family history to find peace and happiness. <br />LONG WAY HOME is an engaging contemporary romance. The glimpses of small town life in which the &quot;bad boy&quot; returns from prison to make good takes on a almost poetic tone in Janis Reams Hudson's lyrical prose. The strong emotions are portrayed with compassion and understanding, creating a novel rich in nuance. Very highly recommended.	2001-03-14
2069734:US	49693975	R20LA5R4A9TY0I	0821769898	159068291	To Tame A Rogue (Zebra time travel historical romance)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Any Time, Any Place -- very highly recommended	Any Time, Any Place is an agency appearing in the French quarter overnight.  With its artistically aged sign and poster of the Roman Coliseum and the  Acropolis, not as look now, but as they looked when new, Arden St. Clare  couldn't resist investigating. The proprietor assures her the time-travel  agency will only be there a week, &quot;depending on whether the solar winds  stay calm.&quot; He recommends the Regency period, a time of romantics and  rebels.  <br />Arden has dreamed for years about living out just one of her fantasies. An  orphan, her aunt and uncle would not like it if she takes a vacation. They  only believe in the pleasure of making more money. St. Claires would never  ride in Mardi Gras parades or rub elbows with movie stars. They would  behave as tradition behooves. So time-travel offers the perfect solution! She  can be carefree and reckless, and the St. Claires will never know. Her antics  won't disrupt the New Orleans's upper crust, or her family business. <br />Unfortunately, solar flares throw the trip off a bit, and she lands in the right  time, wrong place.<br />Dropped off, the proprietor and the time-travel shop disappear before Arden  can ask any questions.  She walks through the woods, pausing when she  hears angry voices. Two men are leaving a young duke, dosed with  laudanum to freeze to death in the woods. Rescuing the boy after they leave,  Arden takes him to a nearby cottage to spend the night. The next morning, a  searching uncle discovers them. Rather than a season among London's high  society, Arden finds herself in the company of the young duke and his uncles. Captain Royce Warrick, a hero of the Battle of Waterloo, is terribly suspicious of Arden and how she came to be in the middle of woods. Someone has made several attempts on his nephew's life. Royce can't decide if Arden is friend or foe, yet he can't deny his attraction for this unusual woman.<br />Arden's struggle with the language and the conventions of the time is  humorous, while her cheerful attitude and flair keep the novel moving along  quickly. Linda Kay does a remarkable job of making the impossible not only  plausible, but also delightful in the plotting of this memorable tale. If you  read only one time travel novel this year, make it TO TAME A ROGUE	2001-03-14
2069841:US	49693975	R1HM7LWFJ4K4V	0821767801	402528067	Carried Away (Ballad Romances)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A wonderful diversion-- highly recommended	In 1866, marriage broker Russell Braddock arranges his riskiest match yet when he pairs the adventuresome governess with a widowed sea captain with three young children. CARRIED AWAY is the second book of the Happily Ever After Co. miniseries.<br />Jack Ryerson absolutely bores his fiancée, Erica Lane. While he dwells on investments, Erica fails to convince him to peruse less cerebral matters. How she wishes she could see Jack passionate, obsessed, aroused. But then, her father always said she had a worrisome tendency to get carried away. Nevertheless, when the governess decides to decline the marriage broker's offer regarding the sea captain, Erica decides to take her place. She intends to simply find a husband for Sara, planning to return to Jack by summer's end. Perhaps Jack will be stricken with jealousy and will come racing after her, and carry her back to Boston for an immediate wedding. Then again, maybe not.<br />Captain Daniel McCullum and his first mate have made a pact to protect one another from scheming females. Daniel believes his first wife only caught him because she caught him by surprise. And while his marriage was a bittersweet blessing, especially since he now has three children, he never intends to marry again, despite his mother-in-law's objectives. Of course, he doesn't know just far his mother-in-law will go to escape the island and return to her friends in Salem, and he especially doesn't know about her letter to the marriage broker. Daniel proves to a rogue, but one who loves his children deeply, and finds Erica very attractive. Indeed, Daniel fills Erica's ideas of romance splendidly, if only she weren't already engaged to another man. Erica's mix of innocence and sensuality drive Daniel wild, but somehow he must persuade her to quite matchmaking for Sara.<br />CARRIED AWAY is a delightful romp filled with romance and sensuality. With the bit of the madcap blended into Erica's personality and the rogue blending into Daniel, the two provide humorous, and at times risqué fun. Further, Erica's playfulness and romanticism, though a bit whimsical, is quite engaging. What a wonderful diversion when life seems much too serious! Very highly recommended.	2001-03-14
2069923:US	49693975	R2QSZN732G8I49	0821767763	227952523	Enchant Me Not (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Light hearted and enchanting -- very highly recommended	When his daughters' nursemaid takes unexpectedly ill, Alexandre Saint-Sylvestre must find someone else to care for the girls. His friend Stephen sends women to interview for the position, but since they all seem to have been roused from his bed first, none really seems to fit the bill. Despite the need of a governess, the children are thriving since moving to Versailles, unlike his deceased wife. Although it will take Alexandre years to help make the garden what it shall become in vastness and splendor, but he loves working with his hands in nature. <br />Alexandre has an extraordinary gift of synesthesia; that is, he sees colors in relationship to the world around him. When Margot speaks, se sees soft, yet tangible waves of pink. They are so real that he can touch them. So Margot's appeal for Alexandre becomes magical. He sees glorious color, a woman who can enchant butterflies and cast a spell over his heart. The first time Alexandre glimpses her, Margot deVerona is being pulled along by leash attached to a two hundred pound pig intent on snuffling out truffles. The next time Alexandre sees her, Margot is enchanting the butterflies.<br />Margot came to Versailles as a lady's maid, but then the duchess got herself exiled for making an inappropriate comment regarding the king. As a result, besides royal truffle snuffler, Margot must find a justification for remaining in Versailles. She only has a few months before she's to wed Baron de Verzy. When she meets Alexandre, she finds him fascinating. Rather like a new and rare insect that makes her want to crack her notebook open and begin making sketches. So when Alexandre asks to assume the role of nursemaid for the twins, although she initially declines, Margot finds him so intriguing that reconsiders. Nevertheless, Margot would rather be studying entomological sciences or mastering the constellations.  <br />Since he was very young, Alexander has learned to guard his actions and emotions. Sights, sounds and tastes areso much more pronounced, represented in vivid colors he can touch, and if other know, they will think him crazy. Shyness guards him from gossip and rumors. The girls are his once strong connection to others. Only with them can be himself; until he meets Margot. Her inquisitive mind and predilection for mud amaze Alexandre. Alas, they only have a month before her baron arrives. Now Alexander must risk everything to secure a future with the bewitching woman he loves.<br />This wonderfully whimsical tale is a beguiling delight. With charming children, butterflies and magic, Michele Hauf creates the perfect enchanted tale. ENCHANT ME NOT leaves the reader with a warm, fuzzy, slightly giddy feeling. Very highly recommended.	2001-03-14
2070018:US	49693975	R21I8PSDOL4IA4	0821768018	315016744	Since You've Been Gone (A Zebra bouquet romance)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Talk about a blast from the past! Very highly recommended!	Dr. Bailey Tate was irrepressible, irresponsible, and lovable to a fault. He left seven years ago for a two-week mercy mission in the Amazon rainforest. He was presumed dead in a plane crash -- how dare he show up a week before Amanda's wedding. It was only the memory of Amanda that kept him going these long years with the Yanomani Indians. His new eye patch only lends a rakish, dangerous air.<br />Amanda Meadows thinks that she has finally put the bad, confusing times behind her. She has a handsome fiancé, a flourishing career, and a well ordered life. Exactly the wrong time for a husband to turn up -- and hardly the time for the old magnetic pull toward Bailey to manifest itself. She's already lived through the despair of losing a passionate, all-consuming love. And she's engaged to Marcus Stone -- Bailey's former partner. <br />As a tropical storm blows in, Amanda finds herself confronting the past and the future with the man who stole her heart. Sharing a meal suddenly becomes difficult as Bailey's seething lustiness draws her. But she's not the same woman he knew. She's no longer the sweet, submissive wife that put him through med school. Bailey left behind marital problems, huge debt, and a pregnant wife. He came back to an engaged career woman with a national contract to roll out her cookie baking series from coast to coast.<br />SINCE YOU'VE BEEN GONE is a tingly, impossible, totally romantic tale that makes you feel good right down to the toes. This compelling tale rates tops for originality and delight. Bailey's spontaneity and Amanda's assertiveness provide a combustible plot certain to keep the pages turning. Very highly recommended.	2001-03-13
2070719:US	49693975	R2H1Q0CZZRUCXQ	0505524287	356364402	Into the Woods	Books	5	41	41	N	N	A fairie tale for lovers -- very highly recommended	Matilda Candy doesn't mind that the people of Tanglewood, Mississippi, believe that she's a witch.The rumors provide Matilda with a measure of privacy and freedom from unwanted visitors. She learned much of her grandmother's craft, who's name she also bears. So when a stranger comes to the door looking for her grandmother, she offers her help. <br />Declan Harper has little patience for ineptitude and determines to own the town and run it by his own exacting standards. He's going to own the town that once scorned him, and every business in it. When he overhears two children, Hason and Grechen, talking with their mother about a witch, he recalls Matilda Candy fondly, as the only townsperson who treated him well and believed in his positive future. The only thing Declan wants, that he doesn't yet have, is Vanessa Arrington. So he hopes Matilda Candy can help. After he realizes the old woman has passed away, he asks the young Matilda for a love potion. Declan insists, despite her assurances that there are no magic potions to affect the workings of the heart. She can, however, create an aphrodisiac -- a lust potion. <br />To Declan's way of thinking, Vanessa is the paragon of feminine beauty. In addition, marriage to her offers the perfect revenge. Her father had always referred to him as &quot;that Harper boy&quot;, calling him and his sisters poor white trash. The elder Arrington hadn't yet equated the wealthy Declan with the boy he'd maligned years ago. Declan looked forward to enlightening him, maybe after the wedding. <br />As Matilida turns the pages of aged and dusty books, she finds a note from her grandmother cautioning her about trifling with ways of the heart. Matilida and Declan are kindred spirits, both knowing what is to be on the outside looking in. Both have strong purpose in their lives. What Matilida would really like to give him is a common-sense potion, rather than a love potion to win a vain, vacuous ninny. Nevertheless, she draws up the potion, which they test on themselves. Let the fireworks begin!<br />This whimsical, entrancing tale will satisfy the romance fan demanding something unusual and wonderful. With a skillful blend of the fanciful and the mundane, author Linda Jones weaves a marvelous tale of love and happy ever after, with a twist. Remarkable in imagination, INTO THE WOODS is very highly recommended.	2001-03-13
2071084:US	49693975	R1RQEEYGQIG19	082176800X	993879044	Just The Way You Aren't (A Zebra bouquet romance)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A modern Cinderella -- very highly recommended	Sunrise in Manhattan brings an interruption to hunky hotel project manager Michael Wolfe. He likes women who like to share a few laughs and a bed without promises or expectations. Women who don't mind interruptions in the name of business. Michael travels light, without baggage, holdups or unscheduled stops. But he can't quite forget the curvy painter of the mural, despite the baggy overalls and baseball cap.<br />Crashing the party of the year at New York's finest hotel was Sunny Anderson's biggest opportunity to change her life. With her mural on the ceiling above, Sunny can make new contacts and create new opportunities for her work. Maybe finally make enough to move out of parent's home, put away money for her daughter's college fund, and quit waiting tables at her mother's restaurant. But creating an elegant Sonja for the evening is quite a challenge for this paint splattered artist who prefers high tops to stilettos. <br />It's a magical night and Sunny, now Sonja, is entitled to a moment of madness between her schmoozing and networking. In her elegant Grace Kelly look, complete with fabulous butterfly mask, Sonja becomes something more than a painter in a baseball cap. As the ballroom fills with color, music and laughter, Sonja attracts the attention of Michael, relaxing, becoming beautiful, powerful and desirable. One night, one moment of madness and then the magic's interrupted by business. Cinderella only leaves behind earrings to mark the night's passage, and now Michael knows how Prince Charming felt.<br />Sonja becomes Sunny to return to the world of children, family and responsibilities. She gains a new project from the night of magic -- now she's commissioned to create a mural in the penthouse, which just happens to be where Michael lives. Now Michael's searching for the nonexistent Sonja, while fighting his attraction to Sunny. Meanwhile, Sunny's painting his office penthouse, and trying to retrieve Sonja's earrings. And if I haven't confused you yet, then pick up the book, because it's not to be missed!<br />This elegant Cinderella story blends just enough of the favorite story and the talented author's imagination to become wonderful. With a dusting of magic, Lynda Simmons blends sophistication and simplicity in a dazzling tale that's a real keeper. JUST THE WAY YOU AREN'T goes beyond feathered masks and glittering costumes, getting to the heart of the matter. Very highly recommended.	2001-03-13
2072796:US	49693975	R2FO28EJ6IMT0Z	0373484224	853000994	The Stanislaski Brothers (Two Complete Novels: Mikhail and Alex)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wow! Amazing characters!	Sydney Hayward's new office, ten stories up in midtown Manhattan, is a world away from her Soho apartments and her tenant's complaints. But when Mikhail Stanislaski trails dirt across her white carpet and reminds her of her grandfather's promises, the two worlds collide. <br />A woman who's spent most of her life traveling and buying clothes is ill prepared for the business world. But Sydney's determined to learn, to make something of what she's inherited. When becomes aware of their terrible condition, she takes over the Soho apartment renovations personally. Mikhail's exotic looks and hot eyes made quite an impression on Sydney. His rudeness and impatience was easily explained by the fact that his many letters had gone ignored.<br />Sydney's ice and pride have met their direct opposite in Mikhail. His gypsy heritage and hot-blooded, hot-tempered nature don't much tolerate ice and aristocracy. She can't help melting in his radiant heat. But then, no woman can dislike a carpenter that repairs stairwells for the good of children and old ladies without reimbursement. <br />When Sydney's mother recognizes Mikhail from the cover of Art/World, the playing field is even. Mikhail lives in Soho from choice, and accepts the work he wants, again, by choice. The master craftsman/artist agrees to do the renovations in his apartment building because he wants to. As his patience seduces his tolerance, passions ignite, resulting in an intense love story too good to miss.<br />Alex looses an arm wrestling contest over Sydney to his brother, so despite his outrageous flirtation, he fails to steal Sydney away. Rather than stealing his brother's girl, he'll just have to find one of his own. Or she will have to find him...which is exactly what Bess McNee does, when she stands with the &quot;working girls&quot; on a New York street corner. Arresting her for prostitution, Alex Stanislaski doesn't quite know what to make of the woman with the creative flair and innocent green eyes. Bess'admittance to solicitation as a form of research, she's a daytime soap opera writer, doesn't prevent Alex from putting her in jail. <br />When Bess returns to the station to ask Alex to let her &quot;use him&quot; he's not quite sure what to think. While her words indicate a bit of illicit fun, Bess really is asking him to help her research into the life of a police officer to make her writing better -- an informal technical advisor. But her sexy eyes and word choices keep Alex off kilter and guessing, and the reader laughing. Indeed, Bess' breathless energy and sizzling passion makes her enduring and appealing, especially contrasted to Alex's more staid approach to life. <br />In Nora Robert's words, &quot;good fiction creates its own reality.&quot; And she proves it. The Stanisloski family presents the opportunity for the reader to become a part of a boisterous, loving family. Just as Mikhail expresses himself in wood, bringing the beauty of his emotions to his creations, so does the family allow the reader to participate emotionally in the kind of family that most of us only dream about. The warmth, humor and love come alive in Roberts' pen, allowing fantasy to become reality, if only for the hours we participate in her world. And with this delightful double novel, the reader gets to linger twice as long! Very highly recommended.	2001-03-11
2073087:US	49693975	R1WRCECZG3E3PE	0373226004	834413994	Alyssa Again	Books	5	2	2	N	N	suspicious characters and a wonderful intensity	ALYSSA AGAIN by Sylvie Kurtz is an unexpected gem. Seldom does genre romance mix so successfully with intrigue to weave a tale that will hold one's attention captivated by both romance and danger.<br />At six, twins Brook and Alyssa were separated. Each went to live with a parent, believing the other parent and twin dead, until an unexpected illness brings about a death bed confession. Brook became determined to find her twin, and possibly fill that emptiness that has haunted her for years. She doesn't expect to find Brook in a coma, the victim of fowl play. Now Brook is determined to impersonate her twin and find the person who wants her dead. In addition to this dangerous task, Brook also finds her heart at risk. She's attracted to the one man she can't have.<br />Jack Chessman doesn't want Brook to risk herself, but vows to keep her safe. He can't see how a kindergarten teacher can pull off such a deception without tremendous risk. Nevertheless, he helps to ship Brook off to her mother's care, and prepare Alyssa for her new role. Alyssa must learn to jiggle her foot when nervous, to slouch, to kayak, to court danger and to live on the edge. Not so easy for a kindergarten teacher who's afraid of the dark. As she steps into her twin's identity, she steps into extreme danger, and only Jack will have the skills to save her.<br />ALYSSA AGAIN lends a new interpretation to amnesia, allowing one twin to assumes another life. While amnesia plots are terribly common these days, Sylvie Kurtz manages to put a unique spin on the plot, breathing in freshness and originality. Woven into the romance are also delightfully suspicious characters and a wonderful intensity. Very highly recommended.	2001-03-11
2073769:US	49693975	R2LFKV8GNSNKTX	0373259212	907935877	Mr. Right Now (The Personal Touch!)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Mr Right is all wrong! Highly recommended	The Personal Touch miniseries has been particularly entertaining, sharing the premise that a personal ad in Attitudes, a hot magainze for twenty-somethings, brings lovers together. Kate Hoffmanmn's use of the personals, however, is uniquely original. <br />Nina Forrester's weekends typically consist of peanut butter M&amp;Ms and rented videos. As a fact checker for Attitudes, Nina spends most of her time researching on the Internet, at the library, or making calls. Four couples in the past year met through the personal ads and have married. Nina wants to pitch an article about it, using an ad of her own to further her experience, hoping to win a promotion to assistant editor. However, a potential buyout of Attitudes may have Nina in an unemployment line instead.<br />Multimillionaire Cameron Ryder is simply a geek who made good. He hasn't the patience for slick women, fancy lifestyles, and the high powered games most of his new peers enjoy. His chance meeting with Nina in a coffee shop has him hoping for another encounter soon, despite the damage to his wardrobe when she pours coffee all over his five-hundred dollar shirt. Once she mentions the ogre who may buy the magazine, however, Cameron introduces himself as Jack Wright, hoping to be Mr. Right before Nina learns who he really is!<br />This comedic romp will keep the giggles coming. While the accidents of disaster feels a bit extreme, the humorous results are worth it. Indeed, the colorful personalities and attitudes will have the reader laughing all the way through. Highly recommended.	2001-03-10
2074042:US	49693975	R2XB35U7KFVRQW	0804119503	938459104	The Trouble with Mary	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A delicious treat! Very highly recommended	Sophie Russo has an opinion about everything, especially her daughter, and never hesitates to point out problems, always beginning with the phrase, &quot;The trouble with you, Mary, is...&quot; A healthy Italian, daughter, Mary's learned to cope with her mother's advice quite well, usually with the help of chocolate. Like the day her boss, whom she loved as a favorite uncle, committed suicide, taking both their friendship and her job. While Sophie accuses of Mary of having no will power, she simply drowns her troubles in her latest creation -- chocolate cannoli. At thirty-five, Mary decides its time to take a real chance, and opens her own restaurant. And she's a smashing success.<br />Then Dan Gallagher writes a review of Mama Sophie's. Granted, it has been a bad week. He wanted the promotion to Sports Editor, but the boss' nephew got the plumb. Dan has been appointed the Food Editor, while the current editor is out on maternity leave. Worse, Dan hates Italian. So he takes his frustration out on the newest Italian restaurant in town. Dan's scathing review inspires Mary's personal rebuttal. And when she storms out of Dan's office, having given her a colorful piece of her mind, he can only admire her fiery temperament. The trouble is...now he's gotta find a way into her heart and learn to like Italian.<br />If you are craving a fun, witty, off the wall romance, THE TROUBLE WITH MARY by Millie Criswell will fill the bill perfectly. The lively characterizations, especially the kleptomaniac grandma, earn this tasty treat top billing! With perfectly sinful recipes, Italian stereotypes, and her own ingenious style, Criswell's contemporary romance will have readers laughing right to the very end! Very highly recommended!	2001-03-10
2074856:US	49693975	R3NWQTMP8X5MDU	0440206154	247672694	Red Dragon	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Masterful Characterization! Very highly recommended!!	Two families are dead, one in Birmingham and another in Atlanta. With seemingly little in common, they share only middle class affluence and a killer. The FBI brings in Will Crawford, who doesn't wish to be drawn back into the shadowy world of serial killers. His gift for mimicry is extraordinary. As he listens to someone talk, for example, he unconsciously assumes the pitch and cadence of their voice. In a similar fashion, he understands the working of the mind. Such mimicry and understanding pose moral questions, for very little separates the serial killer from the man who seeks justice. <br />As he leaves behind his beloved wife and stepson, Will begins the investigation that will also lead him to confront Dr. Hannibal Lector for the second time in his career. Will was the investigator who captured Dr. Lector and received a massive scar to serve as a daily reminder. <br />Anyone who has viewed the movie THE SILENCE OF LAMBS is aware of Dr. Lector's enigmatic personality that at once fascinates and repels. RED DRAGON is the reader's first encounter with Dr. Lector (RED DRAGON IS A REPRINT, first published in 1981). As author Thomas Harris explains in the Forward, Dr. Lector's scrutiny is &quot;uncomfortable, intrusive.&quot; Yet this secondary character, notably absent through most of the novel, nevertheless dominates it. <br />Dr. Lector himself is rarity among fiction, also, as he is essentially unknowable. Dr. Lector is a man of brilliance, charisma, and remarkable control. Only chance coincidence leads to his capture and incarceration. And though he is defiantly not the focus of RED DRAGON, his presence dominates the shadows of the novel, effecting the theme and tone, and taunting the reader with his lack of knowledge and lack of understanding of the malevolence of which this character is capable. <br />Dr. Lector becomes the measuring stick by which we judge the other characters in Thomas Harris' novel. The Red Dragon is a self-named serial killer in the process of Becoming, becoming suggesting a process in the making. Patterned from William Blake's Song of Innocence and Songs of Experience, the Red Dragon is the culmination of what the killer wishes to be. . .becoming that which Dr. Lector already is. Further, Will Graham, with his unique mimicry and understanding assumes the nuances of the killer's character in order to stop the killings, must become like Dr. Lector as well. Seldom does fiction see such masterful characterization. Very highly recommended.	2001-03-09
2079438:US	49693975	R3HRDRBOLLQA2	0373259247	110677521	Fiance for Hire (The Wedding Ring) (Harlequin Temptation, No 824)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Award Winner for Excellence in a Miniseries	The four women have been best friends since kindergarten. When they graduated from high school, they formed THE WEDDING RING CLUB, agreeing to find each other husbands if any of them are still single at age thirty. Little did they suspect just how complicated that agreement would become twelve years later. FIANCE FOR HIRE is the terrific concluding segment of this four part miniseries by Pamela Burford. <br />Amanda's friends really know how to throw a 30th birthday party -- complete with party favors, point hats, musical chairs, and duck, duck, goose. But then, Amanda shows up with a sexy date, one who quotes dead earls no less, to fill the Wedding Ring requirement. Never mind she hired Nick, he drives a taxi, and smells divine. Seems like Nick Stephanos can keep Amanda's meddlesome friends satisfied and get the marriage aversion solved all at the same time. <br />The problem with hiring a fiancé is what to do with him if you fall for him -- hard. Amanda believes that he's in it for the money. After all, the job pays fairly well, and he's accompanying a sexy woman complete with short skirts and spike heals. Not much more a guy could want. Except for one thing. If he's not in it for the money, then why did he agree to this job?<br />Pamela Burford succeeds again with class, grace, and humor! The Wedding Ring miniseries is a smash success, and ends with a terrific bang! The plot rocks, the characters sizzle, and the humor abounds. Not much more a demanding romance reader can ask for! If I could give more than Very highly recommended, I certainly would. Indeed, WordWeaving.com occasionally gives awards for excellent novels, but this is the first series to win the honor. Congratulations, Ms Burford!	2001-03-06
2079557:US	49693975	R2PRUTAUHBZVRS	0373259220	956463555	Chance Encounter (Men Of Chance)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Opposits clash, and a CHANCE ENCOUNTER is highly recommended	It's a really bad day. Ally dated the wrong guy, and now she's been fired from her job as a librarian (who's ever been fired from being a librarian anyway?). Her car slipped out of gear and crashed into a very new-looking BMW (she's got a high deductible). And to top it all off, her landlady's evicting her because the building has been sold. <br />At last a letter comes from Ally's cousin Lucy. Despite her gray hair, Lucy didn't let her senior citizen status stop her from a mountain bike accident, in which she broke her ankle and hip, so she wants Ally to manage her resort while she heals.<br />The quite, unassuming Ally would never be able to manage a resort in Wyoming. The new Ally, determined to stop helping everyone else and take care of herself for a change, is up for the challenge. With less than a hundred dollars, no job and no car, she has nothing to loose. It's time to seek out adventure, to jump in with feet and live. When T.J. Chance picks her up at the airport, Ally decides she handle this hunky, sexy man as well. <br />Chance doesn't want a city girl dogging his steps when he's got a fire to clean up after at the resort. He doesn't need this slip of a thing in his way, getting lost on trails or going headfirst over mountain bikes. He especially doesn't need the attraction they share. He likes his freedom and the ability to nurture his wanderlust. <br />When opposites clash, a CHANCE ENCOUNTER changes their lives forever. Jill Shalvis' scrumptious hero provides enough heat to warm the coldest winter night. And Ally's attitudes about her sister's &quot;emergency&quot; phone call is a hoot! Although the conflict is light and easily resolved, CHANCE ENCOUNTER is a warm and appealing romance, coming Highly recommended.	2001-03-06
2081398:US	49693975	R3DRGCAUL33VU2	1586970062	263663457	The Mermaid and the Eagle	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Oh my! Very highly recommended!	A woman walks the beach lit only by a slight midnight moon, feeling the wetness of sand on her toes. She hears her grandmother's impassioned voice, urging her &quot;to be strong, stand straight, trust herself.&quot; Clarissa intends to conquer a year's worth of fear in this simple walk.  Her beloved husband Jake died in these waters a year ago. He'd been her dolphin, she was the mermaid, in children's books and to each other.<br />The man on a Harley has little patience for red lights, so intent is he on ignoring the events of the day. The entrance to the beach tempts him, and soon he rides along the beach when he sees her. As the night gown blows about her, the woman captures his attention immediately. Assuming she's a woman intent on suicide, Mick Carruthers gathers in his free arm, and pulls her to the seat. Soon he acknowledges that he's never felt an immediate bond with someone such as what he feels for the mysterious woman. <br />Their chance encounter gives Clarissa inspiration, and the following day finds her returning to her long abandoned illustrations for children's books. Vowing to live again, putting tragedy behind her, Clarissa even attends church. Following services, she encounters Mick once again. Despite his chauvinistic and bullying attitude, Mick appears honorable, not to mention handsome. <br />A picnic lunch on Mick's sailboat brings Clarissa more questions than answers. She's wildly attracted to him, but when she discovers that he's a smuggler, she wants to run. Despite his past, despite his &quot;other&quot; business, despite everything, however, Clarissa finds she just can't walk away from this gun-wielding, church going, restaurant entrepreneur with a shady side business. When Mick's around, Clarissa has a hard time sorting her morals from her emotions. <br />As a reviewer of often two books a day, not a lot of romances keep me guessing. The plot are fairly simple, boy meets girl, trouble in paradise and a happy ending. THE MERMAID AND THE EAGLE, however, kept me guessing from the first page to the last, pulling me along in its seductive tone and leaving me thoroughly satisfied. These daring characters and intricate plot twists only come to life thanks to epublishing. Sisk's voice makes this novel memorable reading experience. Very highly recommended.	2001-03-04
2081793:US	49693975	R1IAI1JWWQDIDC	1586972782	230488812	The Dark Room	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Shocking! Very highly recommended!	Roy Whyte devoted twenty years to discovering the murder of Margo Ever and the abductor of her young daughter. As he contemplates his file once again over a cup of coffee in his home town of Locust Grove's dinner, he sees a midnight blue Jeep jump the curb and almost run down a young woman pushing a stroller. Roy rushes outside, and an old woman points him to a nearby alley. In a reeking dumpster, he discovers a young woman, battered beyond recognition. <br />When his father wouldn't pay attention any other way, Roy took an interest in the case that preoccupied his father. In an effort to please his father, Roy learned to emulate his perfect control, which never allowed any emotion to show. As the hospital assumes he's her husband, Roy stays by the woman's bedside. When she finally wakes, he learns her name in Marni, and she's desperately concerned for Lily and Camilla, who are her sister and niece. In her sleep, IT follows her through long passages of trees and ominous dusk. When she stumbles and IT steps in front of her, Marni's agonizing screams wake her from the nightmare.<br />But IT is real. And IT has killed, and will kill again. Marni is used to staying on the move, remaining hidden to survive. But now if she wishes to live, Marni must come to trust this strange man who guards her sleep. As her heart becomes involved, she must learn to not only tell her own secrets, but to dig beneath the aloof mask to discover Roy's secrets as well. Somehow they are mysteriously bound together by a past neither understands.<br />In the combined tradition of Tami Hoag and Dean Koonz author Sue Thorton creates a spellbinding tale of horror and murder. The tight twists of plot, the masterful miasma of fear, and the tense tone create a memorable tale that is both horrifying and extreme. The writing style mirrors its characters, carefully revealing yet withholding information. The reader will find this novel extremely difficult to put down. Very highly recommended.	2001-03-04
2083159:US	49693975	R3BVY6LC96WZ1R	1586979868	708761917	Sins of the Father	Books	5	2	3	N	N	WordWeaving award winner--Very highly recommended	Very highly recommended<br />If you enjoyed John Jakes' THE NORTH AND THE SOUTH or Margaret Mitchell's GONE WITH THE WIND, then you'll love Trace Edward Zaber's SINS OF THE FATHERS. Zaber combines historical accuracy with vivid imagination to create a masterpiece that is enormously entertaining and remarkably insightful. <br />Whether the town's name is Vicksburg or Gettysburg, southerner General Jebediah Ellingsworth and northerner Faith Bradshaw share the same experience. They have both witnessed the carnage perpetrated by the Civil War, and they both share the beliefs instilled by their fathers. Indeed, Jeb and Faith become a microcosm of the war, as they each share the same passion for opposite beliefs. Jeb's father, who equated Lincoln with the Antichrist -- provides the strongest influence on his life, even after death. Faith hopes that Jeb will eventually come to see the sins of his fathers in a new light, recognizing the importance of unity of the Nation. <br />As Jeb confronts the carnage following the Civil War, he questions the values instilled in him since birth. He must either go insane, or confront the errors taught by his father, thereby  &quot;becoming my own man, with my own convictions, a man who'll no longer tolerate or validate the sins of our fathers.&quot; <br />Zaber creates a fascinating story line, in which he creates a marvelous conspiracy theory that results in the assignation of Lincoln. While the plot moves swiftly, the last fourth of the novel flows so quickly and with such intensity that you'll hate to read the last page. The vivid characterization, the remarkable historical depth, and the love of history imbues every page. If Zaber hasn't written the Great American Novel, then he's come damn close. Very highly recommended.	2001-03-02
2087146:US	49693975	RGVW882STXOFJ	0449003787	181097130	O Is for Outlaw (Kinsey Millhone Mysteries (Paperback))	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Very highly recommend--a fast, terrific read	The peanut butter munching, spirited Kinesy Millhone returns inSue Grafton's O IS FOR OUTLAW. With her characteristic flair, Kinseyonce again delves into a dangerous world to seek answers. Unlikeprevious novels, however, these answers begin with Kinsey's own pastand a phone call....  Her quest into the past reveals a Kinsey thatreaders have never met, showing her vulnerabilities and regrets,rounding out this marvelous character.<br />Sue Grafton's colorfulmetaphors, crisp writing style and gritty details creates an addictiveread in O IS FOR OUTLAW.  Kinsey's quirky personality takes on avulnerability unmatched in previous novels as the past catches up toher. Indeed, each of the secondary characters is likewise richly drawnand believable thereby creating layers of intrigue. The conclusion ofO IS FOR OUTLAW proves to be powerful and satisfying even as it keepsthe reader guessing until the end. Very highly recommended	2001-02-27
2089054:US	49693975	R1PV8OSPCRN0HU	1587212315	822385906	Close to the Edge	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Remarkable literary achievement for first time novelist	Every day headlines proclaim yet another shocking tale of someone ordinary crossing over the edge and acting in heinous ways. Vic Fortezza answers the question argued by psychologists of what pushes a protagonist over the edge in CLOSE TO THE EDGE. <br />Set in an Italian-American community in Brooklyn in 1978, CLOSE TO THE EDGE covers two days in the lives of three characters. The mundane routine of their existence frames the interior dialogue to allow the reader to step into the characters' lives, exposing their motives, desires, and fears. <br />A meditative novelist, Vinnie uses jogging as an opportunity to reflect. His mother represents the archetype of the doting Italian mother eager to see her son married. Reading Vinnie's thoughts reminds this reviewer of reading THE PORTRAIT OF AN ARTIST BY A YOUNG MAN by James Joyce. The thoughts are clear, easily followed (before Joyce's writing became terribly obscure) and honest. Each person seeks to connect with someone, to fill the void of emptiness.<br />A receptionist, Kathy had an abortion several months ago and can't escape her torturous guilt. She looks forward to change, hoping to give up her boring and ill paying position for a job waitressing, which at least promises to be more adventurous. Not one to frequent nightclubs, her chance meeting with Vinnie is tender and promising.<br />A blue-collar worker who daydreams of a better life, Rocco knows he'll always be just what he is. He resents those who laugh at his expense, and is infatuated with a woman he cannot have. He recalls an incident from childhood in which he struck another child, and wonders if that vicious violence is his true nature. Yet he was not without remorse.<br />Ultimately, the reader follows the twists and turns that end in a haunting and dramatic finale. Fortezza weaves an intricate plot which enshrouds his characters, embracing the Italian culture in which he grew up, lending his dialogue authenticity, and his novel remarkable depth. The philosopher and poet definitely exists within this talented author's pen, and CLOSE TO THE EDGE is highly recommended.	2001-02-26
2090436:US	49693975	RONICBUEOEAD1	0373650531	67164120	Birth Mother (Montana Mavericks)	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Recommended with qualifications	Eight months ago Brandon Harper and Emma Stover connected emotionally and physically, until an unexpected phone call drug Brandon from her bed in the middle of the night. She'd been a virgin, touching him in unexpected places, sharing herself unreservedly. As time slipped away, her memory didn't, and Brandon hopes yellow roses and an apology will allow him back into Emma's life. <br />During Brandon's absence, Emma finally fulfilled her reason for coming to this sleepy town. Emma traced her birth mother here, and finally tracked her to a near by women's prison. When she met her mother, however, Emma met with a bitter, vicious woman who'd never wanted her. Coping with that fallout, and Brandon's return to her life was enough. Then she's shockingly accused of murder. And her alibi is the only man who she's ever trusted with her heart or her body. And the one man she doesn't believe she should have, especially if he learns the identity of her mother.<br />I picked up THE BIRTH MOTHER based on the title alone. Not having read the previous novels of this miniseries, I did find that Pamela Toth's installment of the Montana Mavericks miniseries does handle the disappointment with the birth mother realistically, but I was not satisfied with the novel over all. I can't imagine allowing a man back into my life eight months after he'd been little more than a one-night stand. Nor am I satisfied with the lack of development regarding the mother and the murderer. Perhaps Toth attempts to accomplish too much and still meet the genre page count limit. However, I did like Toth's writing style and fast paced plotting, and found the novel a pleasant, worthwhile read. Recommended.	2001-02-25
2090703:US	49693975	R1U8ZQAJMFITBC	0967792916	997802034	Petronella	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very highly recommended!!	Jay Williams' 1973 classic Petronella has been recently released with all new illustrations by Moon Mountain Publishing. The fantasy artist Margaret Organ-Kean has created marvelous watercolor illustrations with a modern flair certain to age well. <br />In the kingdom of Skyclear Mountain, the king and queen always have three princes. But one year, things change. The third prince isn't a prince at all, but a princess. Named Petronella, the princess determines to go out and seek her fortune as her brothers do, rather than waiting for a prince to come to her. Petronella's inquisitive nature, bravery, and talent lead her on a fantastic adventure.<br />While the target audience is girls from 8 to 12, the tale is well suited for boys as well. The shapeshifting illustrations are especially wonderful, blending masculine and feminine energy for a unique balance seldom achieved in children's literature. Indeed, this wonderfully written story with its marvelous role reversals and unexpected ending is a must read.	2001-02-24
2093200:US	49693975	R2F0RH67M7YDKZ	0821768352	716398215	Think About Love (Zebra Bouquet)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Highly recommended	Successful businesswoman Samantha Jones gets the emergency call just minutes before an important meeting with her boss, Cal Tremaine. Her sixty-nine-year-old grandmother has had custody of Kippy since the baby's parents died just before Christmas. Now her grandmother is hospitalized, and her niece placed in temporary foster care. Somehow Samantha must balance Cal's substantial staffing needs and her own personal crisis.<br />When the call comes, Samantha knows it would be irresponsible to walk out forty-eight hours before the massive screening process at a recruitment open house. She hadn't come aboard Cal's company for the generous salary, but for the promise of a seat on the board after two years if she does an effective job. Walking now would jeopardize her goals, and make her personal life very public. Samantha has maintained a strict distinction between the two, not even telling her boss about her sister's death five months ago. The careful distinction allows Samantha to remain in perfect control of her life; something she refuses to give up. But control has suddenly been wrenched from her grasp by way of circumstance, and Samantha doesn't quite know how to cope. Especially when Cal insists upon helping. <br />Cal's fascinated and impressed by the woman who put his company in shape. After being burned by his previous partner, Cal had been hesitant to bring in high level help, but Samantha had quickly demonstrated her proficiency at organizing and delegating, making a remarkable difference in the success of the company. Samantha seems to have no personal life, spending eighteen hours a day on work if needed. He admired her ambition and drive, and believed her too valuable to risk a temporary romance, despite his attraction. Then he sees her barefoot, hair down to her waist, holding a baby, and everything changes.<br />I find romances refreshing when the guy falls head over heals first, and spends most of the novel convincing the girl that he's right for her. Watching this hero convince his lady love is hoot!  Further, as a member of the Information Technology industry, I find a delightful humor in the references to the industry, such as developers don't like stodgy companies, and outdoing IBM. But fear not, folks who don't know what a developer does will still find THINK ABOUT LOVE a high powered romp not to be missed! Highly recommended.	2001-02-22
2093304:US	49693975	R248SF8ASUA7Y2	0312974167	968226245	To Die For: The Shocking True Story of Serial Killer Dana Sue Gray	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Highly recommended--with qualification	Only 36 documented cases of female serial killers exist. Ordinarily they target their partners, children, or people under their care. They usually choose poison or guns for their weapon. Dana Sue Gray stands alone, targeting elderly women and choosing a violent means to effect murder. Dana sought excitement, much as she sought the thrills of windsurfing or skydiving, and then celebrated her kills with spending sprees. Kathy Braidhill's chilling account of Dana's behavior and possible motive leaves the reader stunned and appalled. <br />An unemployed nurse, Dana Sue Gray murdered old women and then celebrated with their credit cards. Living with her partner Jim and his son Jason, Dan filled their home with clothing, toys, perfume and the like. I find it amazing that her partner didn't question where her money was coming from when he was the only one earning an income. In addition, I find it chilling that Dana would kill with a child waiting in the car parked in front of her victim's residence. Indeed, Dana's celebrations including not only shopping sprees, but a visit to a spa for a massage, manicure and pedicure, as well as expensive restaurant meals where she order more than she could possibly eat.<br />TO DIE FOR doesn't read so much as a thriller as an explanation for this aberration. And perhaps one the most frustrating things about a book like this is that there are many questions left unanswered. One question the author didn't thoroughly address is how Dana Sue Gray makes the transition in her plea to guilty. While the author mentions the plea bargain, it would have been interesting to have more information, especially from an author that is so meticulous elsewhere. The remaining questions, however, are not so much the fault of the author as the nature of the book. Indeed, the author's meticulous details, explanations, and information provide fascinating reading. The author's writing style is commendable, compacting massive amounts of information into very approachable text. Very well written--I couldn't put this novel down! Highly recommended.	2001-02-22
2094291:US	49693975	R2DN0WA54R7E19	0373259239	921886975	You Only Love Once (The Magnificent Mccoy Men)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Highly recommended	Bachelor of the Year, else wise known as Casanova Cop, David McCoy loves the beauties for a night or two, and then leave them behind. That is, until the beautiful Kelli Hatfield captures his attention with her sensuous pool playing. The next morning he shows up for work and to meet his newly assigned partner...one Kelli Hatfield. Despite his determination to protect her from danger, Kelli's daring spirit and sexy moves can't be ignored. Suddenly the local precinct's heart breaker finds himself standing outside Kelli's locked door bribing her overweight pooch with doggie treats. <br />One night stands had never been Kelli's style, but moving to D.C. means change. Kelli decides that the delectable David McCoy would make a marvelous start to her new life. She hadn't unpacked her boxes or put sheets on the bed, but that didn't dampen her ardor for this gorgeous man. Then she shows up for work the next morning and meets her new partner. She is not happy to learn that she slept with him the night before. Nor does she appreciate his attitude about women cops. Soon Kelli accepts a dangerous undercover assignment tracking a serial killer...that is, when she's not fighting her urges to be under the covers with David.<br />Husband/wife writing team Toni and Lori comprise the author Tori Carrington. Their skillful blend of dynamic prose, a truly &quot;guy&quot; point of view, and ever surprising plots guarantee an excellent read certain to satisfy the most demanding romance fan. Carrington's zany characters deliver an extraordinary romance filled with passion, tension and true dramatic flair. Highly recommended.	2001-02-21
2096628:US	49693975	R3F9K4KY9J1UXC	0373243839	880789404	Wife In Disguise (Lone Star Canyon)	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Very highly recommended!!	Josie Fitzgerald Scott's spirit and determination remain strong, but everything else has changed about this woman. She once was athletic and fiercely competitive. Then tragedy struck. She was on her lunch hour when the truck's brakes went out; it ran a red light and hit her car in the left side. In the moment before impact she didn't think of family, but of her ex-husband, Del Scott. Plastic surgery gave her higher cheekbones and a rounded chin. Vocal cord damage lowered her voice. But the worse part for Josie was the damage to her body; damage that could never be entirely repaired.<br />A year of wheel chairs and walkers allows Josie to graduate to a cane. She returns to Beachside Bay, California and buys the old Miller place that she and Del had once dreamed of sharing. When she goes to Del's office, however, he doesn't recognize his ex-wife. In a moment of shock, Josie introduces herself as Rose, and hires him to renovate her new home. Soon she learns more than she ever wanted to know about what led to her divorce.<br />Del is quite taken with the woman who introduced herself as Rose. When he discovers her true identity, he's bound to be furious. But the odd twists life sometimes takes may just take a hand in the direction his life and heart will follow. As he discovers new things about this woman, he can't help being drawn to her. <br />The author also provides delightful insight into his own flaws in the marriage, via a marvelous spitfire of a character, who happens to also be a five foot tall master plumber that employs sexy young eye candy, by the name of Annie Mae.<br />Given the physical damage to the heroine, I kept wondering how the author would handle the love-making scenes, and now I find myself suitably impressed. The wild acrobatics and passionate displays common to genre romance are quite inappropriate for a woman healing from such extensive injuries. Consequently, the gentle loving, the fiery tenderness and erotic slowness provide a welcome contrastto the usual fare. My hat off to Susan Mallery for writing such a fun, daring, and heart touching romance! The plot and characterizations are absolutely outstanding. WIFE IN DISGUISE is Very highly recommended!!	2001-02-20
2097020:US	49693975	R2DEHJ1YXE482	0373259085	589500290	Just A Little Fling (The Wrong Bed)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Very highly recommended	I admit that THE WRONG BED miniseries published by Silhouette has proven to be one of the hottest miniseries I have encountered. For the month of November, Julie Kistler continues the heat with her own offering, JUST A LITTLE FLING, about which she admits, &quot;I love fast paced, sexy, funny books, so THE WRONG BED miniseries seemed like the perfect place for me under the Harlequin Temptation umbrella.&quot; A hotel full of gorgeous groomsmen, all wearing kilts at her sister's overblown wedding, similar room keys, identical bridesmaids' bags, and her thirtieth birthday culminate in a rash decision that will captivate the reader.<br />Lucie Webster, despised the itchy kilts and even itchier wool jackets. As the thirteenth bridesmaid in her sister's wedding, she contented herself with speculating upon what the best man wore under his kilt. Ceremony concluded, Lucie gratefully attends the reception where she can at least loosen her buttons and lose the jacket. <br />Feeling just a little punch drunk, Lucie decides she wants a one-night fling, choosing a balding childhood friend to provide the liaison. As he slips away in quest of champagne and candles, Lucie seeks refuge in the lady's room. All she wanted was a &quot;harmless little fling.&quot; But when she crept up the stairs and into the dark room, Lucie quickly realized she wasn't in bed with her childhood friend. Throwing caution to the wind, however, she indulged in a night on incredible passion only to wake in the morning beside the best man from the wedding, Ian.<br />Little more than a petulant child, Steffi's crass behavior quickly sends her groom scurrying for cover. Shocked to find Steffi's sister in bed with his brother, Kyle begs for their help to rid himself from the bride from hell. Soon Lucie finds events careening well out of control, resulting in her assistance to break up her sister's marriage before Steffi can ruin Kyle, even while attempting to maintain her dignity naked, wrapped up in a sheet.<br />Backing humor with a substantial plot, Kistler creates a memorable romance that will keep both giggles and heat on high. These unlikely characters and dramas are simply fun! And the jealous half-sister and evil step-mother provide delightful resolution to those childhood archetypes, giving a shot and revenge and bad taste a whole new meaning. If you enjoy genre romance and a good laugh, don't miss JUST A LITTLE FLING-it's a keeper. Very highly recommended.	2001-02-19
2097314:US	49693975	RITD8DA0H0WIW	0373259131	374723423	Otherwise Engaged (The Personal Touch) (Harlequin Temptation, No 813)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very highly recommended	OTHERWISE ENGAGED, the January selection of The Personal Touch! miniseries is not to be missed. Cara Summers presents the story of Tyler Sheridan, who discovers through the personal ads that her groom will miss the wedding. When she seeks out a Private Detective to find her fiancé, Tyler meets just the wrong guy at just the right time. When these direct opposites meet, the chemical reaction is extraordinary!<br />Thy have nothing in common except passion. Tyler's a Boston socialite and president of her company. She hires Nick Romano to find her erstwhile fiancé. From the first glimpse of the sexy, hunky Nick, Tyler's hooked. In the six months she'd known Richard, she'd never known him to stir anything close to the reactions Nick produces instantly. Sheridans don't hit people and they never loose their temper. They certainly don't fall for PIs. But in Nick's company, Tyler finds herself behaving in strange and different ways.<br />From the moment Tyler shows him her grandmother's recommendation, Nick finds Tyler getting to him. He'd already had the electric and phone disconnected, his boxes are packed, and Nick is ready to pull up stakes, leaving the world of PIs behind for becoming a lawyer. Then Tyler sashays into his office, convincing him to accept the case. His instant attraction is only cooled by the need to find out what Richard is up to. When Nick realizes that the missing in a fake, a liar and a kidnapper, he becomes determined to find the truth about the missing fiancé. And while they are otherwise engaged, Nick and Tyler may find that their hearts have a mind of their own.<br />If not for the personal touch, these dynamic characters would never have met. Even the twist of the title provides a nice giggle with its play on words. Indeed, Cara Summers creates a humorous, highly entertaining contemporary romance with her delectable writing style. Very highly recommended.	2001-02-19
2097339:US	49693975	RVDG0LA6BIMSE	0373243634	849389890	Delacourt Scandal (And Baby Makes Three: The Delacourts Of Texas)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Highly recommended	Readers of the October release, MARRYING A DELACOURT, were tantalized by allusions to the youngest Delacourt brother Tray. While Tray refused to reveal the cause of his preoccupation, several family members commented upon his withdrawal from the family and the pain he attempted to conceal. In THE DELACOURT SCANDAL, Sherryl Woods reveals both the causes of Tray's pain and the possible solutions to regaining happiness.<br />Determined to undercover Delacourt secrets in retribution for the damage done to her family, Maddie Kent establishes a relationship with the dynasty's youngest son Tray. Convincing Griffin Carpenter to hire her to unearth Delacourt secrets be published in the Dallas-based tabloid, Hard Truths. Never mind that she had attended one of the nations' best journalism schools, meaning that she had taken her fair share of courses in media ethics and responsibility. All she wanted was one this one expose, even if meant she'd never work as a reporter again. Then she met Tray Delacourt.<br />Tray Delacourt doesn't fit the Delacourt mold, preferring fieldwork to the home office and desk job. No matter how loving his family has been, Tray's always felt a bit on the outside, and persued his own direction. The most tight lipped of the Delacourts, Tray displayed a lot of flash and dazzle to the world while keeping his inner self private. Maddie certainly wasn't prepared to find herself attracted to Tray, and finds her resolve to bring the Delacourt family to their knees wavering. <br />Maddie's innocence-sin attraction proves irresistible to Tray. Her sweet face and kissable mouth combined with her shapely legs are impossible to ignore. For the first time since he lost the woman and child he loved, Tray feels stirrings of attraction for the saucy, sassy Maddie, even when he suspects that she's been less than honest.<br />THE DELACOURT SCANDAL is a sparkling, sexy romance with a hearty blend of secrets and sensuality. The author's light tone and delightful spunky energy will captivate lovers of romance. While freshness and originality are difficult qualities to accomplish in genre romance, Woods pulls it off with flair! I highly recommend THE DELACOURT SCANDAL.	2001-02-19
2097397:US	49693975	R1G80V0O5NDQWK	1586970917	452776841	Scandal's Daughter	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Highly recommended	Diantha's mother died when she was only eight. Immersed in his own grief, her father, Lord Devonwych, sent her away to school. At the age of nineteen, after a year of teaching music at the very school she attended, Diantha is suddenly called to her father's deathbed. Sadly, Diantha has been barred from Society by the double sandal of her mother¹s death and her own birth. <br />By the terms of her father's will, Diantha inherits a fortune rather than the entire estate going to her half-brother. Her father's dying wish was for her to marry her father's protégé, the handsome, Marquis of Ravistock. As Lady Ravistock, Diantha can enter Society as an equal. But Diantha wishes to marry only for love. She falls in love with the marquis, but doesn't know that her love is returned. In an effort to save his reputation from a clutching, ill-minded female, they eventually marry after Diantha attempts to preserve the marquis life and reputation.<br />Phylis Ann Warady's knowledge of the era, including language, custom and nuance is commendable. She recreates the period with her wit and dramatic flair, providing Regency lovers with a dramatic read. I confess to enjoying Diantha's participation in a race, in which she drives a milk cart, absolutely hysterical. Especially when she has to leave right before winning! Highly recommended.	2001-02-19
2097896:US	49693975	R1VP1SB0YJKTFF	0373259050	196428300	Seeking Single Male	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Highly recommended	SEEKING SINGLE MALE, by Stephanie Bond, consists of a riotous madcap comedy for an otherwise circumspect lawyer when a mix-up occurs regarding personal ads. Answering an ad placed by Coffee Girl on behalf of his shy brother, Greg Healey arrives at The Best Cuppa Joe in downtown Lexington, Kentucky expecting anything but what he gets. <br />Greg expects to meet the woman who advertised, &quot;Single female in mid twenties single male for good times. Horse lover a plus. I'm a good cook. Coffee Girl.&quot; So when Lana Martina introduces herself, asking if he fits the ad she placed, and immediately invites him to her apartment, Greg assumes the worse. Intrigued by the vivacious beauty, however, he can't resist following her. Little does he realize her ad was for a gay male roommate. <br />Greg dislikes complicated woman, and they don't come any more complicated that Lana. He especially realizes that fact when he shows up at the town as representative of the landlords who own a strip of shops slated for demolition. The hazing of the building housing The Best Cuppa Joe, as well as the building next door, is essential to Greg's plans for renovating the downtown area. Little did Greg expect the woman who assaulted him for kissing her, while showing her apartment, to represent the shop owners. <br />The city counsel charges Greg and Lana to work together to come up with a compromise that will benefit both parties. The rezoning would allow Greg to escape his corner office and enter the courtrooms where he longs to practice law. But Lana can't afford to relocate her shop, and is the culmination of years of dreams that she won't easily relinquish.<br />Provoking the dour Greg is easy, and doing so is sinfully delightful for Lana. If only they weren't evolved in this stick business fray. With obvious attraction and a direct opposition of interests, their effect on each other cannot be less than cataclysmic. <br />SEEKING SINGLE MALE is one of those delightful afternoon's read where you know the characters will wind up together, but the rocky path keeps the you in stitches. Spirited heroines just seem a perfect contrast to stodgy lawyers who long to break out of their molds, and Stephanie Bond definitely presents them with flair. In addition, her subplot consists of a gentle love story that can't help but also provide enjoyment. Not to mention a ridiculous blow up doll of a man, with anatomically correct parts who gets passed among single women. What a hoot! Highly recommended.	2001-02-19
2097971:US	49693975	R39IAQA7KLAI8C	0373243847	195510351	Standing Bear's Surrender (Silhouette Special Edition No. 1384)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Wow!! Very highly recommended	Blue Angel Naval Commander Jim Standing Bear fell from the sky one dark night, taking not only his wings, but also his ability to walk. While there's no physical cause for him to remain in his wheelchair, Jim is nonetheless grounded. He works out in his exercise room by day, and seeks the rooftop at night with his telescope to gaze at the stars. Then one night, everything changes. He sees a beautiful angel in the weed-covered garden across the street. Soon he realizes she's not an angel, but a beautiful woman dancing in the moonlight.<br />Sarah Sloan dreamed of dancing on stage until the harsh realities of her appearance caused her to trade her dancing shoes for a schoolteacher's shoes. She feels the heat of Jim's eyes upon her as she dances, sometimes alone and sometimes with her father, in the garden. She comes to think of him as her angel, especially when she learns who he is. She's always had a thing for angels with broken wings. Together Jim and Sarah can learn, if only they let themselves, to overcome their deepest fears.  <br />A secondary character also deserves description. Sarah's father, Eric Sloan, had been a doctor before Alzheimer's ravaged his memory, but he was also a superb dancer. Sarah doesn't mind dancing with him, even when he calls her Ginger, willing to sacrifice her time and energy for a father who had loved and raised her so well. As Eric's condition deteriorates, however, Sarah must learn to ask for help, and to let others step in.<br />Often Silhouette Special Editions make me smile and make me laugh. Seldom do they cause the emotional investment that makes me cry by deeply touching my heart. Peggy Webb's STANDING BEAR'S SURRENDER not only entertained me, but it touched my heart with the father whom has Alzheimer's. Indeed, each of the characters of the book touched me deeply, drawing me into the story, but especially the love of this father for his daughter, and her love for him. Their pain and valor in coping with such a disease, as well as with Jim's physical challenges, becomes not just a good story line, but a testament to the human spirit--something beautiful that reaches way beyond what I have come to expect from genre romance. If I had a scale higher than Very highly recommended, then STANDING BEAR'S SURRENDER has earned it.	2001-02-19
2098150:US	49693975	R17DJV90MZMFLN	1586970844	418183881	One Rainy Night	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Highly recommended	Corrine McCullough answers a help-wanted land for a comptroller with a newly reorganized transportation company. She'd held a bookkeeping position for five years and intended a two-week vacation before beginning her new position. She didn't realize that the side trip to the rented condo in Virginia Beach would bring such adventure.<br />Leaving behind her hometown of River Edge near the New Jersey-Pennsylvania line, Corrine chose the back roads hoping to avoid traffic. When the Hurricane Andrea gain unexpected momentum, she finds herself lost, hungry, and her car breaks down. Stranded at a rest stop, a tire iron wielding trucker has her convinced she's about to fall victim to a serial killer. When she passes out in his arms, Daniel Bennett carries Corrine to the cab of his truck to get out of the rain. <br />The sensual attraction builds between the two travelers as they find themselves at a nearby truck stop, sharing a room. Corrine has definite ideas about keeping work and pleasure separate. As electricity crackles between them, Daniel hesitates to tell her he's about to become her new boss for fear of loosing the magic of the moment. So when Corrine finally arrives at her new job, she's shocked to find out his the son of the owner of the company. But a discrepancy in the books and some unusual happenings soon takes her mind of the boss' son alone as she realizes that someone's stealing from the company.<br />Beginning with the terrific line, &quot;This isn't a vacation, it's a Stephen King nightmare!&quot; Kathye Quick's debut novel ONE RAINY NIGHT is the delightful tale of two strangers whose chance meeting one rainy night during a hurricane changes their lives forever. With charisma and grace, Quick's comedy of errors blends romance, danger, and intrigue in this searing contemporary romance.	2001-02-19
2100302:US	49693975	R3HLRKGX2GHN1X	1930364911	207759658	Always A Warrior	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very highly recommended	In ALWAYS A WARRIOR, Patricia Bruening creates a searing romance between two people who couldn't be more different. When extraordinary circumstances draw them together, passion ignites, even against their better judgement. But after guns stop blazing and daily life becomes ordinary, the question remains if their love will last. Some challenges don't require excitement to be difficult or dangerous.<br />Wakened in the dead of night by an unexpected sound, romance novelist Laurie Crawford cautiously investigates. Concerned for her five-year-old daughter Stacy's safety, she checks the phone only find the line had been cut. As fear gives way to anger, she manages to disable one terrorist as camouflaged miltary uniforms storm through the front door. Bullets fly as a soldier drags her protesting out the front door. Laurie's only concern is her daughter, still trapped upstairs.<br />In the wake of the frightening night, Navy SEAL Lieutenant Damien MacAllister explains the terrorists' presence. Her father, whom she believes to be deceased, works with a terrorist group smuggling weapons. The terrorist group plans to use Laurie and her daughter to coerce her father. <br />Damien can't ignore his attraction to the gutsy lady, even while he knows he must use her for the mission. Damien knows the cost of his career and pays it willing every day, but when he meets Laurie, her presence call into question every thing he does. Even when he drags her into a terrorist camp, using her to get at her father, he'll do anything to keep her alive. And once the danger passes, Damien plans to continue his life as a SEAL, because he's a highly trained warrior who believes in what he does. He doesn't expect to be haunted by his love for Laurie and her adorable daughter.<br />ALWAYS A WARRIOR is a fierce, sexy romance with demanding passion and tension. Bruening writes with a creative flair for the dramatic, both in plotting and in romance. The characters become vividly alive, resulting in a fascinating read that provides insight into a life most of us never imagined. Very highly recommended.	2001-02-16
2100304:US	49693975	R1TLKRG7XPEUCJ	037324374X	429528505	Beloved Bachelor Dad	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Highly recommended	Both his father, Ray Brody, and his teacher, Nora Murray, grossly underestimate Trent's manipulative ability. The twelve-year-old has come to live with his father after a seven-year absence when his mother Cheri dumped him and then disappeared, choosing drugs over her son. <br />Trent believes that his teacher would be the perfect woman for his dad, so he misbehaves, thereby arranging a meeting between them. Trent recognizes Nora's giving nature and her tendency to reach out both to her students and their parents. Teaching is more than a job for her; it is her saving grace. Nora believes that perhaps she can give enough to compensate for her father's transgressions. <br />From the first moment she meets Ray, Nora can hardly resist what she comes to refer to as Ray-tingles. She tries to rationalize her responses as years of craving a baby and estrogen run wild. She also tries to maintain her composure as guilt and self-preservation keeps yanking at her. She hides guilt over being the daughter of man she calls a monster. Further, self-preservation is way of trying to avoid disappointment. <br />The moment Nora enters his bar, Ray's responses prove powerful as everything seems suddenly more vivid. &quot;Even kisses had a shade of red, of wanting more.&quot; He really likes her nervous leg, honey hair, and fruit-spice scent. Yet she leaves him feeling &quot;scatters him like a puzzle.&quot; On one hand, she's his son's teacher and should be allowed to maintain her professional distance, yet he wants to hold her and to touch her. On the other hand, he refuses to allow another Cheri break their hearts.<br />The three of them belong together. A trio of lost souls; it takes one person to find another wounded soul. Together, if they all are willing to risk their hearts, they can become a family. This heart warming, humorous matchmaking novel will delight romance readers. Trent behaves and misbehaves as any twelve-year-old would, right down to skipping school. Nora and Ray display vulnerabilities that are easy to identify with, making their characters vividly realistic. Highly recommended.	2001-02-16
2100305:US	49693975	R2MKT5X50MVCDD	0373243790	512657747	Considering Kate (The Stanislaskis) (Silhouette Special Edition No. 1379)	Books	5	50	51	N	N	Very highly recommended!!	Professional ballet dancer Kate Stanislaski returns home to open the dance studio of which she's always dreamed. Tired of the harsh pace of dancing in New York, she's ready for the quite life. She didn't expect, however, to meet sexy Brody O'Connell in her mother's toy store almost as soon as she set foot in town. Nor did she expect to find their mutual attraction so powerful. Most men have taken a look at her delicate form and assumed romanticism and fragility. Seldom could they cope with what they really find--steel. Brody, however, is up to the challenge.<br />A widower, Brody's one priority for the last six years has been his son Jack. Fatherhood had &quot;kicked the stuffing out of the arrogant, careless and often reckless boy. And it had made a man out of him.&quot; Soon he finds himself contracted to do the renovation on Kate's studio, and when he goes to the building, he sees Kate dancing inside. She absolutely dazzles him. Kate ignores Brody's protests that he's not interested in getting involved, intuiting where his real concerns lie. Brody might protest all he wants, but Kate gets what she wants. And she wants Brody has her husband and Jack as her son.<br />Rather than being put off by Brody's moods, Kate finds herself invigorated by the way he gets scowly and turned on at the same time--she believes it is both challenging and sexy. Kate gives as good as she takes, never hesitating to tell the director that he look like a pig, in the Ukrainian language, or Brody where to stuff it. She's accustomed to hard work, and doesn't shy away from darkened basements or the bottom line of a very expensive renovation, always keeping her eye on the goal. Indeed, Kate's fierce determination makes her character extraordinary and appealing. No self doubt for this powerful woman. <br />I'm blushing to admit this, but CONSIDERING KATE is the first novel I've read by Nora Roberts. Yes, I know she's one of the queens of romance, but this reviewer seldom reads by choice, instead I read what lands on my desk by request. After reading CONSIDERING KATE, however, I hereby consider myself an ardent fan and intend to spend more time on books by Nora Roberts! Roberts' independent and spirited characters, the wonderful Stanislaski family, and her sparkling narrative voice make this book a keeper. Very highly recommended.	2001-02-16
2100473:US	49693975	RPBGF4GR9VI70	0373243782	647338664	Forbidden Love (Special Edition)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very highly recommended	Amy finds herself drawn to the one man that she's expected to disdain. Her whole family had been crazy about Nick, and when he ended his engagement to her sister Paige only a month before the ceremony, they all felt betrayed. Her parents had welcomed him to their home, and treated him as a son. Now they believe that he'd embarrassed their daughter, broken her heart, and made her the object of speculation and pity. The years have not brought about forgiveness.<br />She's always been a disappointment to her family, frequently being admonished to be practical, to be sensible, which always really meant whatever opinion that she had just voiced was outrageous and unworthy of further discussion. Further, as Nick reminds her, Amy's family doesn't hesitate to take advantage of her time and skills, expecting her drop her own plans at the last minute if they need a babysitter, spend the day running their errands, or care for grandma because no one else has the time. So when Amy goes along with grandma's idea for the house, renovation rather than moving her into a care facility, and then hires Nick to be the contractor, her family is outraged.<br />Nick had a good reason for breaking up with Paige all those years ago. Now he finds himself irresistibly drawn to Amy, even though he knows her family won't accept him. He doesn't want to cause her pain or embarrassment, but curiosity had driven him to seek her out, and old memories have lured him to take the work that guarantees he see her every day. He'd never been able to get the girl out of his head, and now she'd become the woman he knew she could be.<br />Amy's self doubt by no means creates a weak character. Rather than giving into her fear, she rises above it. Like her funny, tough grandmother, Amy becomes a woman filled with determination and strength, yet vulnerable enough to remain believable. Christine Flynn writes with a passion and grace that draws the reader deeply within her tale, and I look forward to reading more from this talented author's pen. Very highly recommended.	2001-02-16
2100560:US	49693975	RHIBFOKPW2YSW	0373243715	53372996	Judging Justine (Silhouette Special Edition, No. 1371)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very highly recommended	Small town Lewiston, AR harbors big secrets finally brought to light in JUDGING JUSTINE. JUDGING JUSTINE concludes the highly successful Rumor Has It miniseries by Penny Richards with a bang.<br />Singing sensation Justine doesn't want to flaunt her pregnancy, if only because that's what everyone in Lewiston would expect. She knew she should have come back sooner, but the painful anticipation was enough to keep her postponing her return. At last, as her mother lies dying, Justine returns to the town that holds the secrets to her emotional scars. Her mother dies without a word being passed between mother and daughter, without even learning that Justine is pregnant, leaving Justine filled with sorrow and remorse. <br />Justine knows her return to Lewiston will provide grist for the gossip mill. Distancing herself physically and mentally from her family and Lewiston has been the only way to survive. With her mother gone, perhaps Justine can finally tell her secrets to someone, so that she can rid herself of the resentment and anger she's carried around for seventeen years. With the baby coming, maybe she can risk telling Wes that he's going to be a father. But then, that also brings incredible risk and fear.<br />Wes Grayson fell hard for Justine seventeen years ago. No other woman had made him feel complete. Thinking she was out of his system, he found his way backstage one night in Chicago only to learn he still has it for her. Now his paintings only present her face over and over again, just as her memory lingers in his imagination. It broke Wes' heart when Justine abruptly left Lewiston seventeen years ago; little does he know the same secret that drove her suddenly away could cost him his heart again.<br />A shocking, memorable tale, JUDGING JUSTINE demonstrates Penny Richards' story-telling style at her finest. A captivating of secrets revealed, JUDGING JUSTINE finds its way to healing and love. Entertaining and emotionally riveting, JUDGING JUSTINE concludes a miniseries made of keepers. Very highly recommended.	2001-02-16
2100591:US	49693975	RR9GLOLZEXL3G	0786012099	357107336	Blue Moon (Encanto (English))	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Highly recommended	Oceanographer Silvia Martinez counts on the voyage of the Azur III, a research vessel, to win her a fellowship so that she can earn a doctorate at the University of San Diego. She did not expect Miguel Escudero to be the Azur III's first officer. Nor was Silvia prepared for her passionate response to the appearance of her old love. He'd always been a part of her life, since infancy, until five years ago when her career demands did not fit his concept of the perfect wife.<br />As the research vessel journeys to the Revillagigedo Islands west of the southern tip of Baja California, Silvia finds it increasingly difficult to ignore her feelings for Miguel. Just as she struggles to take an important professional step forward, Silvia chides against the reentrance into her life of the only man who almost caused her abandon her career. Romantic distractions of the past, she vows, cannot disrupt her goals despite heated kisses under starlit skies.<br />It was no accident that Miguel was aboard the Azur III. He preferred taking Silvia by surprise before she could start &quot;drawing lines in the sand.&quot; Still wildly in love with Silvia, Miguel is determined to win her back. But his seductive ways inadvertently lead them to danger when a ring of shark fin smugglers threaten their lives.<br />If you enjoy exotic locations, sensuous romance and a healthy dose of danger, then BLUE MOON by Dalia Vargas will most certainly the bill. I found the description of riding the manatee delightful, in addition to the poetic description of the beaches and waters of the Revillagigedo Islands. As Silvia stands behind her decision to persue her doctorate, I found Miguel's attitudes a humorous counterpoint to Silvia's views. The prose is at times rather flowery, but the generous descriptions and passionate wording reflects the Latino culture who is the intended audiance. A delightful afternoon's read BLUE MOON is Highly recommended.	2001-02-16
2100600:US	49693975	R2VA9WOKEWJOOE	0671002155	478885681	Otherwise Engaged (Nancy Drew on Campus #23)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Very highly recommended!!	OTHERWISE ENGAGED, the January selection of The Personal Touch! miniseries is not to be missed. Cara Summers presents the story of Tyler Sheridan, who discovers through the personal ads that her groom will miss the wedding. When she seeks out a Private Detective to find her fiancé, Tyler meets just the wrong guy at just the right time. When these direct opposites meet, the chemical reaction is extraordinary!<br />Thy have nothing in common except passion. Tyler's a Boston socialite and president of her company. She hires Nick Romano to find her erstwhile fiancé. From the first glimpse of the sexy, hunky Nick, Tyler's hooked. In the six months she'd known Richard, she'd never known him to stir anything close to the reactions Nick produces instantly. Sheridans don't hit people and they never loose their temper. They certainly don't fall for PIs. But in Nick's company, Tyler finds herself behaving in strange and different ways.<br />From the moment Tyler shows him her grandmother's recommendation, Nick finds Tyler getting to him. He'd already had the electric and phone disconnected, his boxes are packed, and Nick is ready to pull up stakes, leaving the world of PIs behind for becoming a lawyer. Then Tyler sashays into his office, convincing him to accept the case. His instant attraction is only cooled by the need to find out what Richard is up to. When Nick realizes that the missing in a fake, a liar and a kidnapper, he becomes determined to find the truth about the missing fiancé. And while they are otherwise engaged, Nick and Tyler may find that their hearts have a mind of their own.<br />If not for the personal touch, these dynamic characters would never have met. Even the twist of the title provides a nice giggle with its play on words. Indeed, Cara Summers creates a humorous, highly entertaining contemporary romance with her delectable writing style. Very highly recommended.	2001-02-16
2100602:US	49693975	R36OFILZ8C7IQ2	0373243723	698492358	Pretend Engagement	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Could have been better, but an ok read	PRETEND ENGAGEMENT by Tracy Sinclair begins with a bride's nightmare situation. A whirlwind courtship while visiting Venice resulted in a con trying to scam Jillian Colby. When Rinaldo learns that her father owns a department store he can't rush Jillian to the altar fast enough. Imagine her consternation when their simple ceremony when a woman objects to the marriage, claiming the babe in her arms belongs to Rinaldo.<br />Jillian flees the church, and unfortunate splashing leads to her meeting the Duke Gianni di Destino. He kindly takes her home to lend her a towel, which leads to an opportunity that changes Jillian's life. She becomes Gianni's secretary, helping to prepare for a fantastic masked ball. In her phone calls home to the states, Jillian is too embarrassed to explain what happened with Rinaldo. Soon events get totally out of control, leading to her and Gianni's pretend engagement. But securing a cover for embarrassment isn't the same thing as securing a duke's love. Further, issues of trust abound as other women step in, and Rinaldo turns up once again, adding delicious complications.<br />The plot and characters are pleasing, but lack the depth I have come to expect in Silhouette Special Editions. The plot, set in Venice, felt as though it could have occurred anywhere; that is, rather than intricately weaving Venice into the plot, it feels like a backdrop. Further, the characters seemed to hold the reader at arm's length, refusing to yield the vulnerabilities and joys that make them endearing. Yet the lively dialogue and the sexy writing provides heat on a cold winter's night.	2001-02-16
2100687:US	49693975	R1GB8XIVJTJZGO	0970283903	167910885	A Fine Impersonation	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Highly recommended	The feeble-minded Prince Melos was entrusted to the care of Master Adrian at the abbey for the last several decades, forgotten by his royal family. One day he wanders into the woods alone, and his blood stained cloak is discovered a week later. Fearing reprisals, the abbey never informs the Queen of her brother's demise. In failing health, her own children dead, the Queen sends a detachment of the royal guard to bring him home again. <br />When the unannounced guard arrives, Master Adrian and his fellow clerics substitute a rogue actor in the dead prince's place. The new Prince Melos promptly becomes engaged to the commander of her majesty's army, Ravyn Malakar. As he begins his fine impersonation of the prince, this rogue actor quickly learns the dangers and rewards of such an impossible situation. With his irrepressible humor and consummate acting skills, the new Prince Melos entertains the reader with flair.<br />K G McAbee writes with the wit and farcical flair of a modern day Shakespeare, combining the improbable and the implausible in a delightfully beguiling tale of impossibility. Prepare for the highest hilarity and foolishness, and be sure to cover your giggles or your coworkers will know you are reading at work again. Readers who enjoy this incredible tale will also enjoy her other novels, including ESCAPE THE PAST, THE PLAUSIBLE PRINCE, UNWELCOME LEGACY, and BEWITCHED BY DARKNESS. A FINE IMPERSONATION is highly recommended!	2001-02-16
2100695:US	49693975	R18JW9Z6G8FI07	037325914X	673293582	Pure Chance (Harlequin Temptation No. 814)(Men of Chance)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Very highly recommended!	When Drew Stuart moved beyond insulting or rude Valentines to mushy and started talking about marriage, Serena Deveaux decided to put an end to the nonsense. They've been best friends since kindergarten, and the last thing Serena wants to ruin their friendship by getting married. Her parents had already provided a terrible example of what can go wrong. Now she tries to live as simply as possible: an occasional lover without long term relationships, playing and have fun without marriage. Now Drew has made things not so simple. <br />Serena concocts an elaborate scheme to ditch Drew's romantic notions. And the scheme involves the only man she's ever loved, Brandon Chance. Fifteen years ago a graduation kiss with Brandon proved to her how foolish becoming involved with a best friend can be. Now she wants to hire Brandon to be her bodyguard and then make Drew think that they are lovers. He'll warn her about friends who destroy their friendship over romance, stop persuing her without destroying the friendship, and all her problems will be solved. After all, marriage is not an option, even if it costs her a cherished friend.<br />When she shows up at Chances Protection the first morning of business, Serena refuses to be turned away by Brandon's irritability. But he quickly changed his tone when she handed him beignets and cafe au lait. He's spent fifteen years trying to keep Serena out of his life. They are too much alike--&quot;too reckless, too rash, too willing to throw caution to the wind and fly straight into disaster.&quot; What he wants is a sensible practical wife to help keep him out of trouble. What he gets is, well, trouble...<br />Julie Elizabeth Leto creates a passionate, sexy tale of love reunited. Serena is a playful, unpredictable sprite that doesn't back down no matter the wager or the chance she must take. Chance has to learn to reconcile the fun and unexpected with his vision of the future and learn to listen to his heart, creating a marvelous tension in the novel that keeps the reader smiling. Don't start this one at bedtime unless you want to be up all night. Very highly recommended.	2001-02-16
2100697:US	49693975	R11QZKCJJ2THMK	0373243804	549689051	Starting With A Kiss (Special Edition)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Recommended	Abigail Trent doesn't believe that Greg Hastings finds her interesting. She does believe that she's become his pet project, and isn't certain if she should be grateful or angry. That seems to depend on which way the sexual tension seems to flow at the moment. But Greg's good at keeping his attraction concealed, leaving Abby to explore her newfound self-confidence and attractiveness without him.<br />Greg's own foray into love eight years ago ended unsuccessfully. His wife didn't appreciate a surgeon's schedule and time demands. She wished for time and attention that he simply couldn't always spare, so she found it elsewhere. Although he finds himself wildly attracted to Abby, Greg's not willing to risk a relationship he doesn't believe will last. Although he and his sisters have arranged for a makeover, including cosmetics and clothes, he can't gracefully follow through with his promised introductions to other men when he'd like nothing more than to take Abbey home and to bed.<br />Abby, a pediatrician at the same hospital as Greg, does believe that family and doctors are not mutually exclusive. She dreams of the day when she finds the right man and has children. But when she's with Greg he makes her feel reckless, sexy and daring, and she longs for his touch and his kiss. As they continue to be thrown together working on the same committee for a charity ball, Abby's shining optimism seems to lesson even Greg's cynicism. The question remains if that will be enough, however, to convince the surgeon that marriage is a possibility, even for him.<br />STARTING WITH A KISS by Barbara McMahon provides a pleasant afternoon's read for the reader seeking a light touch. It's always enjoyable to read about a woman on a journey of self-discovery, who has clearly set goals. While lacking the sparkle of some of McMahon's other novels, STARTING WITH A KISS still offers a refreshing Cinderella tale for the romance lover who doesn't mind a plot based on two people's refusal to communicate their desires clearly. RECOMMENDED.	2001-02-16
2100718:US	49693975	R2MDINHRO9SOVJ	0373243863	808362977	Home At Last	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very highly recommended	Tubac's Terrific Trio, three high school students who shared the nickname in tenth grade during lengthily bus trips. A more unlikely group of friends couldn't exist. Brad was the outgoing prom king, Kirsten was the sheltered princess, and J.D. was the loner who knew they would never understand his gritty life. Eight years after high school, Kirsten divorces Brad, and when he doesn't return them following a summer visitation, only J.D. can help her find the kids.<br />Now Detective Ryder, J.D. immerses himself in his work, living his life through his job. He doesn't believe he has the skill or the knowledge to be a father or a husband, despite his feelings for Kirsten. She deserves a man like Brad, even if the marriage didn't last, rather a man like himself. Brad gave her the kind of life she always wanted with &quot;kids, a heritage of comfort, a refrigerator door full of photos showing traditions she probably took for granted.&quot; J.D. doesn't believe himself capable of such a feat.<br />As a child, J.D. once overheard his parents expressing regret, believing they would do better yet failing so miserably. J.D. believes that &quot;willpower could sometimes make a difference, and when that failed there was always detachment, but nothing could change the blood you were born with.&quot; And he was born with tainted blood that could never be a father or husband. Years of secrecy, protecting himself from Child Protective Custody had taught J.D. to keep silence, and even years later, he finds it impossible to share his growing up years with the woman he loves.<br />Kirsten believes that if J.D. truly doesn't want to be a part of her children's lives, then there's no use second-guessing the decisions they've both made. No use in regretting that he determined what was best for her without ever discussing it with her. She'd only accepted Brad's proposal as an alternative to the endless pain of J.D.'s absence. It took Kristen years to take control of her life, rather than allow her parents and then Brad to dictate her path. She's become fiercely independent, and she finds it impossible to yield control of her search for her children, so J.D. must take her with him, even if her own secret threatens to be exposed.<br />As a mother who's endured a scenario similar to that described in HOME AT LAST, I have to praise the author's approach and handling of such a challenging plot. A mother's heart is on the line every time children visit a distant parent, especially when a parent shows up at the terminal gate only to learn the children are not aboard the plane. Laurie Campbell's portrayal of the panic, self-recrimination and fear is right on target. Further, Campbell's approach to J.D.'s character is equally extraordinary, vividly creating this wounded and distant man. Very highly recommended.	2001-02-16
2100796:US	49693975	R29PSXWRV0J359	0373243855	706123574	Separate Bedrooms...? (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	An ok read	The good outweighs the wrong when Neil Griffen and Cara LaCroix agree to a marriage of convenience. Or does it? <br />After loosing his beloved wife and child three years ago in a tragic car accident, Neil believes he'll never marry again. But when Cara becomes engaged, not out of passionate love, but out of duty to her family, Neil can't help feeling jealous. When Cara ends the engagement, he steps in to accept her need for a &quot;temporary husband.&quot; It's her grandmother's wish to live long enough to see Cara married. In their Italian family, she's the last child of eight to hold out. And after she overhears her grandmother sharing a dream with her mother, Cara desperately wants to make her beloved grandmother happy.<br />Besides, marrying the man you love is every girl's dream come true. Too bad that Neil's not in love with her. Neil's always treated Cara as beloved little sister. When they announce their engagement to Cara's family, Neil's overwhelmed with a desire that this engagement and marriage be real, that he really would be welcomed into Cara's family. He's pleased to be able to help brighten the last months of the grandmother's life. But he doesn't dare fall in love with Cara. He's already buried a wife and child, and he can't live through the chance of risking his heart again.<br />There seem to have been a glut recently of romance novels with the plot based upon a marriage of convenience. Some are more successful than others and, unfortunately, Carole Halston's plot doesn't work as well as I have come to expect. Perhaps the concept of marrying by the age of thirty to please one's family is just too old world for me. Despite the weak premise, however, I do also feel compelled to point out Halston's fluid writing style and blend of ethnic traditions gives the characters vivid individuality.	2001-02-16
2100997:US	49693975	R1JR97OFL7314U	0373243758	386041272	Seven Months And Counting...(The Stockwells Of Texas) (Special Edition)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Highly recommended	The miniseries Stockwells of Texas continues with SEVEN MONTHS AND COUNTING... by Myrna Temte. When ex-girl friend Caroline Carlyle unexpectedly encounters Lawman Rafe Stockwell, he can do the math, realizing that she neglected to tell him the consequences of seven months ago. When Caroline finally agrees that Rafe can be her partner until the baby's born, then they go they separate ways, she underestimates his determination to convince her to marry.<br />Caroline has been badly wounded by her experience with men who put their careers first. When she became pregnant, she ended her relationship with the baby's father because she doesn't believe that Rafe can put her ahead of his job as U.S. Marshall. She believes that eventually he won't be there when she really needs him despite his protestations to the contrary. Indeed, she's determined to protect her child from the hurts she suffered from having a father who put his work ahead of his family.<br />Until his niece arrived at the Stockwell mansion, Rafe assumed that babies were &quot;annoying little creatures who did nothing but poop. Spit up and squall in restaurants and movie theaters.&quot; Now his small niece has captured his heart and Rafe finds her irresistible. If the baby's his, Rafe will marry Caroline and fulfill his obligation, although he still has reservations about kind of husband and father will be. First, however, Caroline has to admit he's the father. Then she has to agree to marry. Rafe has his work cut out for him.<br />The subplot of SEVEN MONTHS AND COUNTING... also continues the inquiry into the Stockwell's family history as well as the deterioration of the family patriarch, mirroring the loss of Caroline's own father. The ill health of Caroline's own father doesn't overshadow the narrative, but does lend Carolyn's story a convincing touch of depth and poignancy. <br />SEVEN MONTHS AND COUNTING... provides delightful reading. Temte continues the Stockwell tale seamlessly, with a powerful narrative voice that keeps the pages turning. The strong characters clash with convincing passion, leading the reader through a maze of emotions, thereby weaving a convincing and energetic tale. Next month continues the Stockwell's miniseries with HER UNFORGETTABLE FIANCE by Allision Leigh. Highly recommended.	2001-02-16
2101002:US	49693975	R1YDDA7A7VPV06	0373259190	873939340	Blame It On Babies (Boots & Beauties) (Harlequin Temptation, No. 819)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very highly recommended	Attending today's wedding, only a day after his divorce was finalized, pushes Jess Sheridan over his limits. He's determined not to stay in town long enough for the gossips to start about his marriage and all the things Susan had done behind his back. Everyone knew what she was doing except Jess, so Lorna Walters couldn't blame him for the look on horror on his face as he watched the new bride and groom as they celebrate their new marriage. <br />When Jess passes out after defending her honor, Lorna can't decide if having him there is good or bad. She's had a crush on him since she was thirteen and when he passes out in her bed, she leaves him to sleep off too much whiskey. That one thing leads to another shouldn't be much of surprise, but consequences will come as quite a surprise to the future Sheriff of Beauville when he returns to town in a few months. It'll be a little to late then to swear off alcohol. <br />When Jess unexpectedly appears at the diner where Lorna works, she is fortunately taking a break. While sitting at the booth, her pregnancy doesn't show. Of course Sheriffs have no trouble locating one's address, and when he shows up unexpectedly on Lorna's doorstep to apologize for six months ago, she still manages to conceal her pregnancy. But he will see it when he takes her dinner, and Beauville's a very small town. And since he knows she'd like to cancel, now all he's got to do is refuse to return her calls until he picks Lorna up for dinner...<br />BLAME IT ON BABIES is a wonderfully fun romp sure to provide irreverent entertainment for romance lovers in need of a good giggle. Sizzling action and memorable characters satisfying the most demanding reader. Kristine Rolofson creates a keeper with this quick, lively read. Very highly recommended!	2001-02-16
2101091:US	49693975	R2YLHH61KBHFSN	0373243693	905934220	The Tycoon's Instant Daughter (The Stockwells Of Texas) (Silhouette Special Edition, No 1369)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Highly recommended	The first of an all new miniseries, THE TYCOON'S INSTANT DAUGHTER by Christine Rimmer provides a heart touching, secret revealing tale of the Stockwells of Texas. <br />An extremely well appointed nursery and unlimited funds is not enough to convince social worker Hannah Miller that three-month-old Becky should be left with her biological father. Cord's new nanny calls the morning of Hannah's arrival stating shouldn't accept the job after all, leaving Cord Stockwell without the appropriate child care for round-the clock attention for the baby. <br />Hannah has grown inordinately fond of her charge, even to the extent of taking vacation time to foster the little girl. Leaving Becky with a playboy father that didn't even know of the child's existence until the call came from Social Services just doesn't suit Hannah. So it's little wonder she finds herself agreeing to nanny the child until another caregiver can be found. Now not only must Hannah find a way to protect her heart from breaking when she leaves the child, but also when she leaves the child's sexy father.<br />Hannah isn't Cord's kind of woman at all. She's too bossy, and she wants things done her way. Strange how he suddenly doesn't want her to leave. She is, after all, an exasperating female, but a worthy adversary as well. Suddenly Cord finds himself fantasizing about her simple cotton gown and bare toes, instead of seeking the company of sexy Texan aristocrats. <br />Add to the mix of Hannah, Cord and baby the rest of the Stockwell family, including a dying patriarch with a passel of secrets, a mother said to have died while boating with an uncle, and brothers and a sister with their own secrets and the result is a promising miniseries of Texan proportions. With a healthy dose of feistiness, Rimmer creates the perfect read to hook the attention and leaves the reader anxious for the next installment. Highly recommended.	2001-02-16
2101110:US	49693975	R2I1UIU36ZSAMJ	0373259182	921644122	Her Only Chance (Men Of Chance) (Temptation 818)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Very highly recommended	In her first Harlequin Temptation, Cheryl Anne Porter explores high school sweethearts who are given a second chance a love. The child of divorce, Jamie Winslow wants security. A Navy SEAL, Kellan Chance seeks thrills risking his life in the line in duty. With such different values, they can't live with each other, nor can they live without each other.<br />An unexpected encounter with a publisher at a cocktail party while Jamie makes small talk about her dissertation leads to an opportunity of a lifetime. The publisher wants her to rewrite her dissertation about women who fall for the wrong type of men, making it a self-help guide on relationships complete with lots of tips and exercises. Jamie's thrilled with the offer, which she must keep a secret; but the offer is contingent upon graduation and securing her psychology license. Part of the process of securing her license depends upon therapy sessions targeted to demonstrate her own emotional strength. If she fails, ten years of higher education and her career will be lost.<br />Jamie feels like a fraud because she also fell for the wrong man, and is still deeply in love with him despite their breakup a year ago. Dr. Hampton tells Jamie that she must seek closure with the relationship with Kell before he'll approve her license. It seems that she left him at the altar when she was twenty-one. When they finally got together again, two years ago, she walked out again a year later. Her excuse is that Jamie doesn't believe she can live with man who defies death every time he's sent on a mission.<br />Kellan is Gaelic for warrior, and lives up to his name. Risk is in his genes. His parents are professional gamblers. His brother Brandon is a former Nightstalker pilot turned bodyguard (PURE CHANCE by Julie Elizabeth Leto). His brother T.J is a wild, uninhibited adventurer (CHANCE ENCOUNTER by Jill Shavis). Chance isn't just a name--it's the family motto! Further, an unexpected encounter with Jamie at the airport proves he's not at all over Jamie. But when she shows up seeking closure, they open far more issues than closing them!<br />HER ONLY CHANCE begins with a simmer and becomes quite a potboiler by the conclusion. Cheryl Anne Porter's strong characters and fabulous plot make for a heated tale that's become a keeper on my shelf. The humor packed and depth of emotion packed inside this romance make it an excellent read. Very highly recommended.	2001-02-16
2101143:US	49693975	RZFQN3VP1FT31	0373243774	195561275	Her Little Secret (The Baby Bet) (Special Edition)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Highly recommended	Only in a small town like Prescott, Arizonia can the butcher recommend a larger steak, and corn rather than broccoli because a date doesn't eat it. And only in a small town like Prescott is matchmaking the favorite pastime of the old-lady set. But no one can endure introductions, gifts of tuna casserole with peas, and coconut-fig cookies forever. So Sheriff Cable Montana has just the solution to put an end to the matchmaking. He never expected his plot to backfire.<br />Cable has already done the marriage-divorce thing, and doesn't intend for a repeat performance. In the year and a half since arriving in Prescott, he hasn't even dated. But when his new puppy treats a lilac bush as a squeeze toy, his trip to the local nursery leads to meeting Lindsey Patterson, a woman who also intends to avoid all matchmaking. But new puppy and another chance encounter lead to a plot to thwart matchmakers, by making a preemptive strike. Cable and Lindsey will have a few dinners, a few movies, spend time together, and then break up with no hard feelings. Their subsequent healing time will prevent any more arrival of tuna casserole.<br />They didn't expect the sensual mist that seems to create a world that only includes the two of them. Cable and Lindsey find themselves irresistibly drawn together. This was not part of the plan. Especially since<br />Lindsey strives to maintain a inner peace and contentment, accepting life on life's terms. She's long since accepted that she will never marry and have children. Nevertheless, painful memories haunt Lindsey, and her secret separates her from the possibility of marriage.<br />Joan Elliot Pickart creates a humorously delightful tale of love and puppy destruction in HER LITTLE SECRET. The harder these memorable characters fight love, the faster they fall. And Buddy, the eight week old German Shepherd puppy provides just the right touch of disaster to keep the reader in stitches. A light read, in HER LITTLE SECRET is Highly recommended.	2001-02-16
2101206:US	49693975	RLSLJY4YXFACA	0373243731	631617304	Not - So - Secret Baby (Stork Express)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very highly recommended	When two spirited, highly cynical regarding love characters meet, the result is magic in Diana Whitney's THE NOT-SO-SECRET BABY. In a rented room, during the course of twelve hours, Susan Mitchell and Jarod Bodine found beauty and passion in one another arms. They made an impulsive choice, and now they both must embrace the consequences. They made an emotional connection that led to a life.<br />A quiet night, a darkened pub, and a healthy dose of loneliness and pain introduced the two strangers. Susan was there seeking solace from learning that the man she had been dating wanted more than she could give. He'd wanted marriage, a family, a home, all the things that practical, pragmatic Susan didn't believe in. She viewed marriage as a respite between divorces, and refused to enter into such a tenuous situation. <br />Jarod Bodine sought relief from memories of the past. When his wife died, Jarod vowed he would never marry again. Carrying around an unhealthy dose of guilt, he blames himself for her death. He believes he's unworthy to be a husband, and refuses to risk such devastation and pain again. Romantic love is not an emotion he intends to ever allow in his life again.<br />When Susan learns of her pregnancy, she takes advantage of an advertisement for a tutor for third grader Danny, Jarod's son. She intends to evaluate Jarod's parenting skills to assure that he is worthy of being the father of her child. She doesn't expect Jarod to insist on marriage. Nor does she expect to fall in love with the Jarod, his son, and the ranch with its wild beauty and demanding lifestyle.<br />Diana Whitney writes with a flair and energy uniquely her own. One of the greatest challenges authors can face is integrating dynamic, believable children into the story. Diana captures the spirit and the voice of Danny perfectly, including both his petulant and his joyous sides, and keeping his character central in the story line. Further, many author fall into the trap of a previous marriage not being happy, but while Whitney acknowledges the flaws of the previous relationship, she also honors it both in the voice of the child, and also in the voice of her hero and heroine as well. Whitney's refreshing narrative earns her top status of Very highly recommended!	2001-02-16
2101302:US	49693975	R2QWX5UBLP6THS	0373243707	895638275	Unexpectedly Expecting ! (Lone Star Canyon)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Highly recommended	This return to The Lone Star Canyon miniseries by Susan Mallery continues with UNEXPECTEDLY EXPECTING! <br />Feisty hairdresser Nora Darby has always wanted children, it's a husband she can do without. She knows seeing Doctor Stephen Remington is dangerous, threatening her heart, but she refuses to listen to her little voice of caution when she's in his arms. Other women can have adult affairs without disrupting their lives, so surely she can too. Except that the first night of incredible sex turns her life upside down. And she's been lonely a long time.<br />Stephen offers a special relationship without the emotional attachments of marriage. He wants monogamy, and when the inevitable end comes, he wants it to be friendly. Then an incredible night of passion leads to unexpected emotional intimacy...broken when he realizes that the condom also broke. He wants this child, and will marry Nora to share his child's life. Somehow he can't stop admiring the intriguing woman with the loud mouth and hidden, soft heart.<br />Susan Mallery has a talent for creating memorable characters with surprising depth and determination. Nora and Stephen provide heart-warming entertainment as they skirt the issues of love and commitment. While this is not a plot driven novel, the depth of characterization, especially Nora's firce independence and strength of character, make her special and memorable. UNEXPECTEDLY EXPECTING! is highly recommended!	2001-02-16
2101333:US	49693975	RJLXN7ZZF4I1P	0373259204	106162865	One Eager Bride To Go (The Wedding Ring) (Temptation 820)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Very highly recommended!!	The four women have been best friends since kindergarten. When they graduated from high school, they formed THE WEDDING RING CLUB, agreeing to find each other husbands if any of them are still single at age thirty. Little did they suspect just how complicated that agreement would become twelve years later. ONE EAGER BRIDE TO GO is the fantastic third segment of this four part miniseries by Pamela Burford. <br />Giving their virginity to one another, Sunny and Kirk were inseparable during high school. Since graduation, Sunny hasn't had another serious relationship because she always finds herself finding others lacking in comparison. So while Kirk went away to college in California, Sunny remains in New Jersey working at as a waitress at the local diner and waiting for Prince Charming to arrive. But not many Princes frequent the Wafflemania. Twelve years after high school she still waitresses at Wafflemania and waits for the perfect man to take her away from support hose and pink polyester uniforms. <br />Sunny's the most eager member of the Wedding Ring, eagerly awaiting her introduction to love and marriage. But she's immensely dissatisfied when her buddies reintroduce her to her old flame. The Wedding Ring was supposed to bring her a new man, not a specter from her past. She wants a new man, not this recycled stuff!<br />A widower, Kirk came back to Long Island to raise his eighteen-month old son. When he shows up at Charlie and Grant's wedding, he and Sunny are the ones to catch the garter and bouquet. As he slides the garter up Sunny's leg, they both know the fire of attraction still smolders. Kirk warns Sunny that he's not the same sincere man she remembers, but she disregards the warning, ill suspecting the secret that could drive them apart. <br />Sunny's charming transformation of the bride passively waiting for Prince Charming to discovering one's own abilities makes ONE EAGER BRIDE TO GO a wonderful read. The frequent reminders of previous books, and the tantalizing glimpse at the last unmarried Wedding Ring partner also lends a depth and warmth to the novel, making it wonderful in its own right, while richer and fuller as part of the series. These characters are both memorable and uniquely individual. I can't wait for the last book of the miniseries, FIANCÉ FOR HIRE. Very highly recommended!	2001-02-16
2101457:US	49693975	R348YDLN15FUSY	0373243766	75692339	Man With A Mission (Morgans Mercenaries: Maverick Hearts) (Special Edition)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very highly recommended!	Part of the Maverick Hearts miniseries by Linday McKenna, MAN WITH A MISSION is a heart pounding, heart-stopping novel of danger and love.<br />They have a mission, a life to find and save. Captain Jake Travers' sister is missing. She traveled to the jungles of Peru to a small village to help them sink wells. Sixty percent of their children were dying before the age of ten from drinking bad water. Talia Travers dreams of saving the children, little realizing the risk to herself. Kidnapped by a drug lord, Tal becomes the pawn of dangerous game that Jake intends to end.<br />Against his better judgement, Jake accepts the aid of Lieutenant Ana Cortina, a woman that is part of the Black Jaguar squadron that fights the influx of Columbia drugs. His traditional beliefs don't allow for a woman to lead this kind of deadly mission, and he has serious misgivings. But Jake needs a guide that knows the path, the people, and the languages that will lead to saving his sister.<br />Jake makes Ana feel safe in a world gone mad. She makes Jake long for things he doesn't dare dream of. As they walk the path through the Rainbow Valley, Jake finds himself filled with both terror and joy. Terror for the safety of his beloved sister. Joy to be with this extraordinary woman. Despite their cultural differences, they have much in common, placing family, parents, land and heritage ahead all other things.<br />Although she calls herself a warrior, Jake comes to understand she's also a sensual woman, with powerful religious beliefs and a profound connection to the land. As his heart becomes further involved, he also hopes she might become a wife and mother. Somehow he must learn to reconcile the warrior with the woman. And somehow, when the mission ends, they must find a way to be together. But the farmlands of Iowa are a long way from the Peruvian jungle.<br />With a powerful narrative voice and a marvelous imaginative flair, McKenna presents the clash of culture and ideals in this memorabletale. Very highly recommended.	2001-02-16
2101520:US	49693975	RK8C0R6P5KEKL	0373259166	179141919	I Do , But Here'S The Catch (The Wedding Ring)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Very highly recommended!	The four women have been best friends since kindergarten. When they graduated from high school, they formed THE WEDDING RING CLUB, agreeing to find each other husbands if any of them are still single at age thirty. Little did they suspect just how complicated that agreement would become twelve years later. I DO, BUT HERE'S THE CATCH is the terrific second segment of this four part miniseries by Pamela Burford. <br />There was a reason Grant Sterling married a mousy, sexless woman. Grant doesn't suspect that Charli Rossi's demure clothing and attitude conceals a hot siren. He wants a woman with domestic and organization skills to help him make partner in his stuffy law firm. So Grant proposes a marriage of convenience without the messy emotional roller coasters that destroyed his parent's marriage. He doesn't expect to want to make Charli smile or to love her company.<br />She's known for thirty years that she's not the kind of woman that men think of when considering passionate liaisons, babies or marriage. As Charli discovers that beneath Grant's polite reserve lurks a man of passion and warmth, she comes to recognize the profound connection between the two of them. Although she was initially careful to hide her eagerness, for fear of appearing brazen, Charli soon learns that she's capable of becoming a temptress. Yet even that won't get her past the emotional scars, which exhibit a physical reality in the marks of abuse on Grant's back, without trusting both her heart and her body.<br />Such nativity as exhibited by Charli would fall flat in any but this talented author's hand. Pamela Buford creates a wonderfully believable couple, each bound by their separate pain, that find love despite their insecurities when they each discover their own inner strength. Indeed, I DO, BUT HERE'S THE CATCH provides a charming, humorous romp that brings emotional meddling to a new height. Very highly recommended!	2001-02-16
2116073:US	49693975	R3HV0GAL2GQ5UZ	0821766201	218880420	A Moment in Time	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Very highly recommended	Once again Deb Stover has delivered a sexy romance guaranteed to put fire in the blood. This romantic time-travel is will certainly keep you warm on a cold winter night.<br />A romantic mountain get-away results in Blade absconding with Jackie Clark's car, money, and credit cards. Determined to leave the cabin that lacked plumbing and electricity, Jackie begins the long trek down the mountain. Caught unprepared for a snowstorm, she takes refuge in a ghost town where she's plunged backward in time to the year 1801. In a hilarious case of mistaken identity, everyone believes she is Lolita Belle, a famous salon singer expected by Rupert P. Goodfellow of the Gold Mine Salon. As Jackie flees the salon, she plunges right into the arms of a Mel Gibson look alike by the name of Cole Morrison.<br />A widower, Cole is raising his son Todd alone. But mining only nets him enough to keep Todd fed and clothed. Desperate for a better life, Cole contracted to kidnap Lolita Belle in return for enough gold to buy a ranch in Oregon. But he wasn't anticipation the fierce attraction he would feel toward the woman he believes to be Lolita. When he kidnaps her, Cole quickly realizes that his raging passion for this woman is matched only by his raging guilt for having taken her against her will.<br />Bu Jackie's problems aren't limited by being transported back in time. Her red dyed hair convinces everyone of giving her Lolita's identity, despite lacking the heavy curves, or the voice of the salon singer. Indeed, the salon keeper believes that every &quot;miner in this area will spend his paycheck in the establishment&quot; to enjoy her entertainment, and will go to any length to ensure his profits. <br />Appropriately dressed for her own time, Jackie starts out only wearing a thin tee shirt and a pair of jeans--tee shirts are non existant and jean worn only by men in 1801. And when she leaves half her clothes at an artist's bungalow, things only go from bad to worse. Covering herself withfeathers only results in a nasty rash. And when a Blade look-alike shows up, who identified himself as Rock, Jackie feels more threatened than ever.<br />This delightful time travel has it all: kidnapping, mistaken identity, romance. Deb's unique talent for characterization and plots keeps readers satisfied. If you love time travel and romance, A MOMENT IN TIME is a must read!	2001-02-03
2116075:US	49693975	R2WW5Z3E4UAWL6	059509533X	578894340	Down to a Sunless Sea	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Very highly recommended	In 1932, Aldous Huxley wrote BRAVE NEW WORLD warning of the consequences of the world we were then creating, confronting implications of religion, science, art, politics, sex, and drugs. Subsequently, as we have made technological progress, there have been accusations cast that we are creating a &quot;brave new world.&quot; Yet twentieth century progress has been much more insidious than Huxley predicted. Consequently, Ward Kendall's rethinking of a &quot;brave new world&quot; significantly differs in detail, but is no less haunting, no less chilling, and extremely plausible.<br />Alex Kinkade, subsequently dubbed the Militant Samaritan as a result of his work, comes to the Amazon with the idealistic dreams of making a difference in a land wrecked by civil war and starvation. The director of the We Feed Camp, Alex cares for thousands of refuges streaming in to seek food and shelter. Using his military experience, Alex protects the inbound shipments of food, as well as the camp with extreme, but necessary, militancy, thus earning his nickname. Unfortunately, infiltrators destroy Alex's camp. The world press, seeking a scapegoat for the thousands of dead, blames the Militant Samaritan. <br />Meanwhile, the United States, in the spirit of a free economy has allowed its labor class to be entirely thrown out of work by automation. Fast food, factories, and grocery stores are all run by robots that provide excellent service and stop crime. But that leaves millions of starving laborers who no longer have the ability to feed or clothe themselves: &quot;While the middle classes continued to grow and prosper in their 'brain dominate' jobs, those who worked primarily with their hands were becoming scarce in the employment landscape.&quot; Inevitably, the United States falls into civil war, and the only hope for a future resides with Dr Paul Vogel, a man without a heart and of the most élitist mindset imaginable. If he succeeds, Vogel's proposal of Project Eden will turn the free land of America into a segregated land of those inside the &quot;poverty complex&quot; and of those who still have a job. <br />But the problems of the United States don't end at her boarders. As the world increasingly falls to the morass of civil wars and invasion of foreign powers, technology proves equally dangerous to those not torn by bombs and weapons of mass destruction. Indeed, the destruction of the world as we know it seems immanent: &quot;Such is history. It is nothing more than endless war. Only the names of the victors change.&quot; Yet the author, with every turn of the page reminds us that there is hope, as long as men like Alex Kinkade are in the world. Because men like Alex cannot heartlessly turn their backs to the masses to preserve their own comfort.<br />Despite impossible odds and incredible danger, Alex demonstrates that true humanitarians must offer what help they can, thereby preventing the completely cold, technical vision of the future predicted by Huxley's BRAVE NEW WORLD. Yet DOWN TO THE SUNLESS SEA bows to the inevitable scientific progress we shall make, and the consequences of a technological world. DOWN TO THE SUNLESS SEA questions how long the citizens of the world can continue to support a population without hope of productivity in a technological society. Perhaps the world of simple laborers, maids, barkeepers and store clerks has passed. Even with heroes like Alex in the world, perhaps the world of the twenty-first century will only have space for the most intelligent and technologically advanced citizens.<br />Bitingly powerful, DOWN TO A SUNLESS SEA is a plausible and frightening look into our future. DOWN TO A SUNLESS SEA maintains amazing philosophical depth, yet remains richly entertaining with crisp precision of characterization and plotting. If you read only one futuristic science fiction novel this year, it must be this one. Move over BRAVE NEW WORLD for a glimpse of the twenty-first century that makes Huxley's concerns appear minimal.	2001-02-03
2116078:US	49693975	R2ETFIAVSEOHVB	0373243502	588751689	At The Heart'S Command (A Place Called Home) (Silhouette 1350 : A Place Called Home)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Highly recommended	In this, the second book of the &quot;A Place Called Home&quot; mini-series, Patricia McLinn works out the second part of a curse that has haunted the Susland family for five generations. Indeed, this generation is the last hope for ending the curse. <br />Colonel John Griffin Junior, Grif, always accepts tough, smart assignments intended to advance his career. Advancing quickly through the ranks, Grif forms no personal ties or commitments that could waylay his career. So when Grif declines an opportunity to join the White House liaison team and request leave instead, he seemingly acts totally out of character. Truthfully, his heart formed ties that he abandoned fifteen months ago. Failing miserably to regain control of his heart, Grif doesn't return to Far Hills Ranch until his aunt's letters inform of the rough situation the object of his desire has endured.<br />Married life hadn't been all she wanted it to be, but Ellyn tried hard to make her husband Dale happy. When he served notice that he was giving her one last chance before he divorces her, Dale moved his family back to Far Hills Ranch. Ellyn was unsuccessful in contacting her childhood friend, and her husband's best friend, Grif before the move. As a result, following Dale's unexpected death, she and her children felt terribly abandoned by the man who had once been indispensable in all of their lives.<br />When Grif returns to far Hills Ranch, both he and Ellyn must face the extraordinary attraction between them. They also must overcome the past-other's words, and their own guilt and pain if they wish to forge a relationship. While both are determined to keep their hearts under control, they very well may learn that we are all at the heart's command.<br />With a flair and style unique to this storyteller's pen, McLinn creates a believable world of love and family with the &quot;A Place Called Home&quot; miniseries. In a family plagued by unexpected death, ending the curse promises a new future for all theSuslands. The first part of the curse was lifted in LOST AND FOUND GROOM, and a satisfying conclusion is reached in HIDDEN IN A HEARTBEAT. Reading the books either separate or together is guaranteed to satisfy lovers of the western romance. Highly recommended!	2001-02-03
2116079:US	49693975	R2YQDQH8L2UAON	1586979973	240279638	Deadly Obsession	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very highly recommended	A man with a taste for blood, a cop with a past, and a beautiful reporter in the line of danger combine in this suspenseful tale. Move over Patricia Cornwell, you've got serious competition. Pat Rasey's DEADLY OBSESSION blends intrigue and romance in a unique combination guaranteed to keep you up past your bedtime, obsessive turning pages to the hair raising conclusion. <br />The killer begins by preying on young prostitutes, but when the mayor's daughter's body is dumped in his front yard, police officer Cole Kincaid faces the pain of his past while moving to prevent yet another death. The tracing of the killer introduces us to not just Cole, however, but also several other vital characters.<br />As the novel develops, the tension is beautifully relieved by the evolving relationship between Cole and the beautiful reporter, Laurie Michaels. As Cole struggles with the pain of his past, Laurie learns more than he ever wanted her to know. <br />Interestingly, another character proves himself to be Damien Vincent, &quot;a real life vampire of sorts.&quot; His mesmerizing appearance, and love of blood, fascinate yet repel the reader, guaranteeing interest right up to the last page of the novel. <br />When Word Weaving received this novel for review, I was swamped and passed it along to another editor. Later I made time for reading it, and was so impressed that I scribbled this review just to get the word out. This fast pasted murder mystery is a must read for all murder mystery fans.	2001-02-03
2116085:US	49693975	R270DJ6N08NWSU	0373243529	677049050	Marrying a Delacourt (And Baby Makes Three: The Delacourts of Texas / Silhouette Special Edition, No. 1352)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Recommended	Part of the ongoing miniseries &quot;And Baby Makes Three, The Delacourts of Texas,&quot; Woods gives Michael Delacourt one more chance for love, as well as laying the path for the next release, THE DELACOURT SCANDAL, due in December 2000 from Silhouette Special Edition.<br />Six years of meeting only on opposite sides of the courtroom haven't completely erased the memories of a shared history for either Michael or Grace Foster. When she left him, Grace thought her heart had been ripped to shreds, but the alternative of spending life virtually alone while Michael ran the family business wouldn't satisfy her need for love and family. Grace thought she had carefully put her feelings aside, but she didn't hesitate when Michael called asking for help.<br />Michael's siblings frequently complain that he spends too much time in the office and little time on himself. Family legend tells of the first time they fooled him into a vacation. Much against his better judgment, Michael finds himself again falling victim to his well-meaning siblings' plans. Shortly after arriving at his sister's ranch, everyone mysteriously disappears, leaving Michael with empty days and nothing to fill his time. That is, until an unexpected discovery in the barn leads to an adventure he's little prepared for.<br />Runaway boys, ages eight and thirteen, quickly send Michael scurrying to the phone asking for Grace's help. Dropping everything, she responds, despite her decided lack of skill in following maps and directions. When she arrives, not only does Grace find her heart quickly engaged regarding the boys, she also finds her heart still involved with Michael.<br />Battling bureaucracy and their own hearts, Grace and Michael struggle to find a way to keep social services from reclaiming the runaways. Having treaded this way once before, neither Grace nor Michael are prepared for the fires to be rekindled. Overcoming the past and long standing priorities is only a start for these two headstrong ex-lovers.<br />A veteran of over sixty romances, Sherryl Woods once again delivers with her characteristic flair for the unexpected. Readers who enjoy the combination of romance and children will certainly enjoy MARRYING A DELACOURT. Woods' narrative will carry the reader's imagination into an isolated Texas ranch, capturing both the heart and imagination with a rich cast of unforgettable characters. Recommended.	2001-02-03
2116105:US	49693975	R1Q0VVTQ8FGJ0Z	1929034180	318040760	Escape the Past	Books	5	3	5	N	N	highly recommended!	The slave Valerik has known the thrill of the gladiator's ring, and the humility of servicing the noble class. Turned out as quarry, he flees for his life, hounds baying at his heels when the mysterious Madryn rescues him from the back of her black stallion. Yet the question remains, has he plunged headlong into even greater danger? And how long can he accompany this extraordinary woman when he doesn't even know where they are going?<br />And what cold, dark magic drives their fate? Dreams only partly remembered of another's man's life; what can memories of nobility mean to a slave? Answers lie within a ragamuffin thief-child and the memories of a dead man. But at journey's end, is that enough to save Valerik and Madryn and preserve their love?<br />K.G. McAbee's voice is fresh and original as we see the world through the eyes of the slave Valerik. Moreover, her compelling characters hold our attention as we become increasingly caught up in a journey determined to &quot;Escape the Past.&quot;	2001-02-03
2116117:US	49693975	R1Y6PLX0SAFM1X	1930364288	45101616	Sound The Ram's Horn	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Highly recommended	SOUND THE RAM'S HORN by S. Joan Popek is a prophetic new millennium book filled with the hope and the promise of humanity. Joan illuminates what it is to be human, challenging our beliefs and perceptions in a monumental endeavor along the same vein as STRANGER IN A STRANG LAND, yet with a flare and originality uniquely belonging to her. <br />From the first scene, Joan challenges the reader to examine one's own prejudices. Mama disowns Sam for wishing to marry out of their race, and dies without love, rather than rescind her opinion. When Sam and his wife's child is born, Joshua has five extra chromosomes which result in luminescent skin, blond hair, and a gift of empathy and healing. But people fear that which they cannot understand, and Joshua's mother is no exception. Before long, she leaves, unable to cope with her own child. <br />As Joshua grows, his differences become sharply pronounced. Soon he locates other Gold Children, GCs, and finds that they are bound together by telepathic abilities, just as they are bound to the world by their empathic abilities. But their strengths are also their greatest weaknesses, for GCs cannot even defend themselves if it requires inflicting pain. The pain that they would inflict, because of their empathic links to humanity, is tantamount to suicide. <br />While the GCs would never harm others, unfortunately, others are not bound by the same rules. Companies like Macro-Ideas Inc wish to control the GCs for their own profit and gain. Other common people don't know whether GCs are angels or devils, and cannot conquer their fear of that which they do not understand. Yet the GCs fully understand humanity's weaknesses, and with compassion, seek to help all to live in peace and love. Indeed, GCs are sterile, because they are not here to replace humanity, but because they are as the product of humanity. All GCs have mixed racial blood, and bind those differences in a unique blend of love and empathy. <br />While it's important to understand where we are headed as the human race, and to question not only our directions but our associated prejudices, morals and values, does that translate into a good read for SOUND THE RAM'S HORN? It most assuredly does. SOUND THE RAM'S HORN is filled with interesting characters interacting with verve and vivaciousness, not to mention an ever-present hint of heresy that focuses the mind and forces one to examine stimulating new concepts even as it makes one nod the head in earnest agreement. <br />SOUND THE RAM'S HORN is not a book of easy answers. In fact, the book leaves more questions unanswered than answered. Perhaps that is it's greatest strength, because it forces the reader to think, to examine one's own motivations and weaknesses. By challenging our beliefs and finding our commonalties, the wall that separate us from our own selves comes tumbling down with SOUND THE RAM'S HORN. <br />Pay attention to this author's remarkable voice, for S. Joan Popek promises to mark the land of science fiction, displaying the power of good science fiction writing. Indeed, if you are Science Fiction fan, or merely a fan of human nature, this novel is a must read.	2001-02-03
2116126:US	49693975	RAGIXTUZNS598	1929077033	24677581	Cycle of the Assassin	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very highly recommended	Reincarnation has brought the cycle full circle, bringing forth Cassandra Walker once again. She doesn't know why the panic attacks come, or why she has been driven unconsciously to flee Chicago, San Francisco, Baltimore. Each time, the panic attacks had driven her. During the attacks she knows she's being followed; that some malevolent force wishes her death. Fear of being traced leads to dead-end temp jobs and a lonely existence. Cassandra doesn't even know her own capabilities until a phenomenal act of self-preservation brings her gifts to the surface. She has always possessed amazing abilities with weapons and while memory does not reincarnate, ability does. <br />Homicide detective Martin Harris was off duty when a call about a possible hostage situation comes over the radio. Since he was only five blocks away, Martin shows up at the scene. The cashier tells Harris that the lady in aisle three took both would-be thieves down. Harris believes the clerk's explanation is the confused meandering of a victim of severe trauma until he views the video tape. The woman moves so quickly that she's merely a blur on the tape. Impossible. <br />When Cassandra returns to her apartment, a mysterious message warns her to run. Refusing to leave that night, Cassandra risks her life when a gremlin breaks into her apartment intent on killing her. Calling her names such as Demondancer, and the assassin, the gremlin nearly succeeds in taking her life until a surprise rescuer by the name of Merlin suddenly appears. He persuades Cassandra to leave with him, and they kill another gremlin in their escape. The police are not happy with the dead bodies left behind. <br />Centuries of dealing with Cassandra's reactions to learning of her reincarnations make Merlin most adept in his methods of persuasion regarding her reincarnation. He's lived centuries, and has learned that what he says during her early stages of disbelief and rejection sound to Cassandra like the stumbling ranting of a mad man. His words are like a well-rehearsed script that coaxes a level of acceptance that, if not complete, is enough so that Cassandra does not flee his company. <br />Merlin tells of a magical barrier that prevents the evil Lucefyhar from leaving his dimension and entering our own. The gremlins are his minion, followers who take over humans while in his service. Lucefyhar thrives on chaos and war, in some cases directly instigating them. Magicians constructed the magical barrier that prevents Lucefyhar from returning to this dimension. The spell has a single drawback. It requires that at least one member of the original coven remain among the living. Cassandra, the latest incarnation of Cassandra the assassin, must keep Merlin alive to prevent this dimension's destruction. She also must hunt down the black magician that aids Lucefyhar from this dimension. <br />CYCLE OF THE ASSASSIN is the stalemate that continues until Lucefyhar manages to break through the barrier, or is finally defeated. Carried through centuries, incarnations had seemed just like every other cycle. They didn't change all that much from generation to generation until this one. Now Cassandra must dance the demon dance and bridge the gap if her world is to survive. <br />The classic battle between good and evil, CYCLE OF THE ASSASSIN brings fresh nuances and entanglements that will engage readers of many genres, including fantasy and suspense. Indeed, this is a richly powerful book, with a full-bodied tale of evil poised for destruction, and the only woman who can prevent it. CYCLE OF THE ASSASSIN is fresh, as well, lacking the traditional love interest, and giving her strength and power seldom seen among heroines. Talented, intelligent, physically gifted, Cassandra is powerful and unique, yet vulnerable enough to be believable. <br />Note: Unfortunately, the poor editing on this book, while not necessarily the fault of the author, does make for periodically confusing reading. I have the text version of the story, and there are sudden breaks in the middle of words, sentences and paragraphs that mislead the reader. Further, missing punctuation and lack of space between the changing scenes, to indicate the scene shift, also challenge the reader. Nevertheless, this is an excellent novel, and well worth the bit of periodic confusion. Indeed, I refuse to penalize the author in my rating based on something that may feasibly beyond the author's control. Very highly recommended.	2001-02-03
2116144:US	49693975	R6M4BJPYMQNQ0	1892442205	662788024	Dad Was a Carpenter : Blueprints for a Meaningful Life	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Very highly recommended	Writer and filmmaker Kenny Kemp won the Grand Prize in the prestigious Writer's Digest National Self-Published Book Awards for his memoir DAD WAS A CARPENTER: BLUEPRINTS FOR A MEANINGFUL LIFE, beating thousands of competing entries. The judges ruled well, for this beautifully written story of father, a son, and the meaning of life is must read.<br />Kemp begins his memoir with the words, &quot;I lied--Dad was not really a carpenter. He didn't work in the trades at all. He was a pharmacist--an ordinary man with poor eyesight, gapped teeth, and no hearing in one ear...&quot; Yet Kemp doesn't lie at all. For concealed beneath the ordinary veneer is an extraordinary father whose talented hands and imagination could see possibilities in the rejected, the mundane, and the discarded. Out of cast-off patent-room lamps, he created a chandelier. From equally simple materials, he created a go-cart. Out of an accident, he inspired a son to pay for damages and make the repairs himself. And the ability to see beyond the broken, the cracked and faded inspired a son's imagination with words and with film.<br />DAD WAS A CARPENTER: BLUEPRINTS FOR A MEANINGFUL LIFE will only take an hour or two to read, but the subtle life lessons shared within will remain with the reader for a lifetime. The son who learned the value of straightening nails has shared a profound philosophical view of life in the telling of his story. Indeed, the simple carpenter that lay beneath the skin of pharmacist will touch the heart of any that reads DAD WAS A CARPENTER: BLUEPRINTS FOR A MEANINGFUL LIFE. I very highly recommend it.	2001-02-03
2116186:US	49693975	RKHQG1UBENXYO	0738809233	256363827	Bingo, Lawsuit	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Recommended	For lovers of politics, intrigue, and dirty dealing, this book has everything required to satisfy the most voracious appetite. <br />Deanna Beguile reached the heights of stardom before a sexually explicit video of a Deanna-look-alike, forged by a tabloid master of deception, convinced fans it was really Deanna with four guys, thereby plummeting her rising star. Suddenly her tour was cancelled, and she was playing to an empty room in Vegas. In a frustrated rage at ill treatment by the manager, Deanna fell from the stage, broke her hip, and landed in the pits of drug addiction.<br />Resourcefully, Deanna uses her name recognition to her advance, opening a sex/psychic phone business that becomes an incredibly profitable cash cow. Unfortunately, she becomes victim of an accident, meant to be an insurance scam, and nearly looses her life. When an ambulance chasing lawyer uses his connections to meet her, he gets Deanna's name on the dotted line, and plans to sue everyone except that man who caused the accident. In a flagrant attempt at grabbing headlines, her lawyer sues the hospital, claiming that the life saving x-rays caused Deanna to loose her psychic abilities. Once again Deanna's name recognition guarantees attention, and the opposition is ready with a dirty political game to stop frivolous lawsuits. <br />But don't let me mislead you. This novel is more than Deanna's story. It is an expose of the vicious effects of the abuse of our justice system and those who truly hold the power to make our laws. Indeed, BINGO, LAWSUIT boldly exposes the underbelly of our legal system, displaying the filth of both sides in a witty, biting method that takes shots at all the interests that keep America's legal system churning.	2001-02-03
2116190:US	49693975	R3OF71PFA0SGD9	078670313X	106766842	Dead Man Falling	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Very highly recommended	A leg bone and the upper portion of an arm have been found in separate locations in north central Pennsylvania. As Diana reads the newspaper account, her blood freezes. She intuits that the victim is her younger brother. Tony was only fourteen, but had been on his own since she left her abusive home the day after her eighteenth birthday. Diana couldn't blame him for leaving too, and she refused to damn him for the harsh choices he made to stay alive on the streets. The police can't help since Diana can't even prove her brother missing. So she approaches filmmaker Mac Parris to help her. He's said to have an eye for detail, doesn't mind late hours, has the right equipment, and is within her price range.<br />Mac has his own demons to fight. Thirty years ago his life dramatically changed with the tragic loss of his wife and child. Now his nights are haunted by fire and only the deep woods, far from civilization, brings relief. Now he films the lives of wolverines and other scavengers, living his life on the path of most resistance. Perhaps he prefers having the odds stacked against him. And perhaps he feels more of a kinship for the wolverine than most of the members of his own species. Surprising himself, when Diana shows up at his doorstep requesting his help, he finds it &quot;physically impossible at a time like that to say no to a girl with snowlights in her hair.&quot;<br />The more time Mac spends with the strong, yet strangely vulnerable Diana, the more he comes to realize that the vacuum he's defined as his life is sterile and useless. Her presence gives him a purpose beyond the vision of revenge he's held for thirty years. They come to know one another not by what each reveals but by that which they work to keep hidden. As their joint quest for answers leads them deep into a world of perversion, violence and decadence, the answers also lead these sharply compelling characters to a transformation of vision and self. <br />DEAD MAN FALLING is one of those strangely compelling novels that fits into the genre of murder, of mystery, of crime thriller, and yet it is so much more. DEAD MAN FALLING echoes the grace and profundity of much classic literature such as Hemingway's THE SUN ALSO RISES. Further, Randall Silvis' voice moves with a subtle depth and compassion that entrances the reader, drawing one deep within this absorbing narrative. Very highly recommended.	2001-02-03
2116194:US	49693975	R3MNNK7X1W9SC4	1931071276	509891070	A Special Power	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Highly recommended	A SPECIAL POWER by Glen Ebisch is the story of teenagers who have paranormal powers which they can't control. Professor Altman, a professor of paranormal psychology, attempts to teach them self-control. He's only been unsuccessful once, when he encountered a youth whose temper overrode any of the professor's teachings. <br />The narrator, Greg, moves objects with his minds. Jessie reads minds. Suzanne can predict the future. Together they form a team of Extrasensories who are assigned to help Professor Grodkind, who believes someone has been stealing copies of his exam. When a fire breaks out in Professor's Altman's laboratory, the team quickly realizes that there's more than just missing exams afoot. In addition, Greg fears that his powers are slipping even further from his control, endangering everyone around him. <br />Written from a fascinating premise, A SPECIAL POWER has tension, suspense and enough twists to the plot to keep the reader highly entertained. I hope to see sequels to this one! Perfect reading for young teens, I Highly recommend it.	2001-02-03
2116225:US	49693975	R23QVVZOTVGEW4	0967656605	784463151	To No Man's Glory: A Child's Journey From Holocaust To Healing	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Very highly recommended	So much has been written about surviving the Holocaust, that it takes a remarkable voice and a remarkable story to present fresh insight into growing up during the Holocaust years. However, Vincent Benson's story has been captured by his wife's words in a haunting, vivid memoir. Together, the Bensons have created a tale that blends memory with recorded history into a novel that is a must read.<br />When German soldiers invaded Latvia, Vincent Benson, then known as Arturs Lejnieks, was a three-year-old orphan. As tanks advanced on the orphanage, Auntie (the only mother Vincent would ever know took him by the hand and carried him in her arms as they fled through tunnels beneath the orphanage to the forest outside the city. From 1941 to 1945 they lived in the forest, taking shelter in ditches during air raids, skirting corpse-filled fields, even surviving blizzard  conditions. Although the child's innocence was ripped from him by violence and death, Vincent still found comfort and love with Auntie, and for a while his Dog, and his friend. Yet despite the horrible conditions, both Vincent and Auntie survived bombings, starvation, and capture.<br />Together Vincent and Auntie endured a children's prison camp and escaped a firing squad. When the war ended, however, the liberating British army managed to do what the Germans could not. They forced separation. Vincent was sent to the United States of America to be adopted, while Auntie was sent to England. Although she even married a British soldier to establish a home for the child, the British government did not see fit to give her custody of Vincent.<br />Coming to America was not the idealistic cowboy heaven promised by the American movies. Vincent could not endure the skyscrapers of New York and was eventually placed on a farm in the Midwest. But even there he received many challenges, and it was only his eventual maturity and growing faith that saved the young man from enduring despair.<br />Written with self-honesty and revealing the pain of a child who was never able to be a child, TO NO MAN'S GLORY will not only touch the heart, but also enlighten the mind. The novel demonstrates the strength of human spirit and the will to survive in powerful, vivid language, yet does not dwell on the horror to the point that the novel becomes painful to read. A difficult balance, indeed, to find and maintain. This reviewer was profoundly touched by TO NO MAN'S GLORY, and heartily recommends it.	2001-02-03
2116254:US	49693975	R2BL0CBAN12TLW	192961330X	983420615	Hunter's Song	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Highly recommended	HUNTER'S SONG is a lovely, light-hearted romance with a twist. Flaunting traditional roles and expectations, Natalie Damscroder has created an original tale guaranteed to entertain. <br />When Nikki Winter daughter Montana called the handsome man on the street corner Da-Da, it had to be coincidence that she'd never used that word before. Just like it had to be coincidence that they had exactly the same shade of blond hair. And while the man was wildly attractive, Nikki did not plan to include men in her agenda. Her life had already been manipulated and controlled enough. Never again would anyone have the power to control her. <br />When Hunter Cole handed Montana's rattle back, he wasn't prepared for his immediate attraction to her mother. But a beautiful woman like Nicki would be welcome to his agenda. He'd like to marry, settle down, and have children. And ready-made family would be just fine. Of course, he had to persuade Nikki to let him into her life. After all, if she didn't, his heart would be broken twice, once by the mother and once by the daughter. <br />In this rollicking role reversal, where the man's ready to settle down and present the ring, while the woman's more interested in an affair, and protecting her heart, synchronicity not only brings Nikki, Montana, and Hunter together, but bonds them in ways they can't even imagine in the beginning. HUNTER'S SONG proves that synchronicity not only glues the fabric of the universe together, but also creates a great romantic tale.	2001-02-03
2116271:US	49693975	R35YBN7HN2ZCFX	0595094147	673275487	Gold In the Shadow	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Highly recommended	The adventures of Indiana Jones meet the Connecticut Yankee in King Author's Court in this action packed thriller by Michael Marcotte. The jungles of South America and the possibilities offered by ancient archeology create an exotic backdrop of danger, mystery and promises of gold in GOLD IN THE SHADOWS.<br />When Rachel Carson's twin brother is reported missing, she steadfastly believes Kenny is still alive. Kenny's current employer confirmed his failure to report after a long distance flight over the jungles east of Cuzco in South America. Rachel immediately flies to South America, a country she previously spent time in as a graduate student, in search of her brother. She little realizes her quest will lead to a path of self discovery in inner mysteries as well as the more obvious quest through the jungle for her brother's lost plane.<br />A student of archeology, Rachel's language skills with the Indian natives provides her with an opportunity to join Max Arnold's expedition into the depths of the jungle. Max claims to have information on a downed plane, leading Rachel to believe it could be her brother. But his motives are far from being in her best interest. Indeed, Max's hidden agenda threatens the lives each member of the team, and although fifteen people begin the expedition, few will complete the journey. And those who do will be forever changed by where they find their gold.<br />Marcotte brings a fascinating montage of Indian and Egyptian theory and knowledge to GOLD IN THE SHADOWS, offering a richly varied and exciting backdrop for this additive adventure. The fast paced plot, the depth of characterization and the unique insights into history provide fascinating entertainment. Indeed, Lovers of the Inca civilization have long been aware of the striking parallels between Inca culture and Egyptian, but rarely has a fiction writer so convincingly presented their case in a fictional context. If you love ancient civilizations and fast paced adventure, then Iheartily recommend GOLD IN THE SHADOWS.	2001-02-03
2116290:US	49693975	R1TL3VHV51OYA5	1930364032	869458072	Turtle Medicine	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Highly recommended	I requested to review this book because, as an Eppie nominee, I was intrigued by the title TURTLE MEDICINE which brings to mind native American Indian mythology. After I read the book, as I prepared to write this review, I learned that Jean Staley is the penname of author Aliske Webb. No wonder I had been mentally comparing the similarity of writing styles and quilting motifs. The introspective, reflective style surely defines Aliske Webb's work as she never hesitates to flaunt current expectations of style in order to encourage the reader to think, thereby encouraging the reader to challenge attitudes previously taken for granted, resulting in spiritual growth. <br />It is this theme of spiritual growth that dominates the Aliske Webb's work, especially with TURTLE MEDICINE. Indeed, TURTLE MEDICINE tracks the growth of two women, both the first-person narrator Susan and her great-grandmother Emily. The narrator Susan inadvertently reveals her own spiritual journey as she actively traces the life of Emily, who's turtle quilt has left a puzzle that Susan is determined to solve. This mirroring between narrator and Emily highlights the similarities of the paths despite the years and vastly different lifestyles that separate them. Likewise, a second mirroring occurs between Emily and the native American Indian woman Morning Cloud. Beneath the differences of this mirroring, the reader discovers the sisterhood that unites all women. <br />Susan crosses the vast expanses of space and time to recreate Emily's life. Like the tradition of the Native Indian giveaway ceremony, Emily's letters, journals and quilts have been spread among her many descendants therefore forcing Susan to travel great distances to assemble each precious piece of the past. Following her great-grandmother from girlhood onward, the author recreates pioneer life and the changes this great country has endured.<br />The passage of Emily through the journey of life, from the maiden, to the mother, to the wizened crown reveals a journey all women share. As our personal visions of the world expand to embrace not just our tiny pieces of life, but all life, so does TURTLE MEDICINE reflect the spiritual paths that result in growth and change. I highly recommend TURTLE MEDICINE.	2001-02-03
2116302:US	49693975	R398AXZYEHC0I6	1892520389	829267279	Shameless	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Very highly recommended	SHAMELESS is the extraordinary novel by J. C. Wilder about a wounded woman's growth into power and beauty. Although SHAMELESS is the third part of a series, reading it without reading its predecessors isn't a problem. SHAMELESS creates a world of mystery and magnetism that mesmerizes the reader. <br />Eighteen years ago, a madman kidnapped, raped, and carved up model Erihn Spencer, leaving her for dead. While she physically survived her injuries, her emotional scarring surpassed her traumatic physical scarring. While Erihn could write passionate, best-selling romance novels, she had never allowed a man into her life.<br />During her birthday celebration at the Brew House all that changed when Fayne saw her. Recognizing the warrior woman buried beneath the baggy, concealing woman, her beauty and strength mesmerized Fayne. He boldly strolled to the stage where she was reading a poem, and kissed her. One perfect kiss. That single perfect kiss pulled her from the darkness into the light.<br />Ready for a rest to prepare for her next novel, Erihn goes to her customary retreat at her friend's home in the mountains. Only this year Jennifer didn't warn Erihn of the houseguest. As Erihn lounges in the hot tub, fantasizing over the &quot;dark, predatory, dangerous&quot; Fayne, he appears before her. <br />What follows is every woman's fantasy. As Fayne's love and desire nourish her newfound confidence, the word shameless becomes a badge to worn proudly. That is, until madmen, vampires and witches put in an appearance and threaten to destroy everything Erihn has gained.<br />SHAMELESS holds amazing depth as it explores the growing, shameless attraction between two lovers and the world of the preternatural. With extraordinary craft, Wilder builds a tale of suspense and romance that will leave the reader clamoring for more.	2001-02-03
2116314:US	49693975	R3DZ1WIUZG5U7H	073885008X	248692136	Peppermint Creek Inn	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Very highly recommended	Lost in the woods of Northern Onterio, the man had only a gun and a note. Without memory of how he received the bullet in his back, his only hope was the words scribbled on the crumpled piece of paper, Peppermint Creek Inn and the one name beneath it. Sara Clarke. As rain obliterates the number also scribbled on the page, 28, he finds his hope likewise dissolving. Still he presses onward. When the man stumbled up to Peppermint Creek Inn, he sees a the prettiest two story Victorian style house. But then he realized that it was also empty, with a broken window letting in the icy rain. <br />When she later arrives with the electricity out, Sara finds not only the broken window, but a dead rat carefully laid out in her kitchen. So when the stranger with a gun in his pocket grabs her, she's prepared to fight for her life. Soon Sara realizes the man without a name is a fugitive. Hearing his words spoken during nightmares, she suspects him to be a criminal. Yet his kind eyes and sexy attractiveness belie the possibly danger, especially when he saves her life. Also, Sara can't help feeling compassion for a man with a gun injury because on another dark, story night a gunshot had changed her life forever. <br />PEPPERMINT CREEK INN is a riveting, tension filled mystery that will have the reader glued to its pages. With surprising depth, twists and curves, Jan Springer creates memorable characters that will have the reader really hoping that they will not only find answers to the past, but also a way to stay together. This extraordinary suspense comes very highly recommended. I only regret it took me six months to get to it on my reading list! And Jan, thank you for sending AS BIG AS THE SKY. If it's half as good as PEPPERMINT CREEK INN, I'm going to enjoy it!	2001-02-03
2116316:US	49693975	RD9YLJQZLYCPS	0373259026	372491779	Blame It On Cowboys (Boots & Beauties)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Highly recommended	When he announces his impending nuptials at a poker game, Bobby shocks the other ranch hands. Chasing girls since he was twelve, Bobby didn't seem to be in any hurry to settle down. And the man responsible for his well being, Jake Johnson, couldn't be more eager to see Bobby settled. Even if the prospective bride does promise to bring her old maid Aunt B so her fiancé can meet her only living family member. Jake's delighted to see the younger man get married so he need no longer look out for him. Even when a losing hand at poker results in promising to pour tea for the old aunt, as well as buy tickets to a quilt show and take her antique shopping.<br />Responsible, conservative Elizabeth Comstock's niece Amy Lou has an interesting past, and her current flavor of the month proves to be a cowboy. Rather than letting her niece rush into marriage, Elizabeth accompanies her to the cowboy's ranch to meet the prospective groom. She doesn't know she's also about to encounter a sexy man from her past who will destroy her conservative image.<br />Several months before, Valentine's Day in Chicago resulted in a blizzard that shut down the airport. When two strangers were inexplicably drawn to one another, passion ignited. But neither was accustomed to a one night stand, and rather than facing the sexy Jake, Elizabeth quietly slipped out of his bed and his life, thinking she would never see him again.<br />Someone's getting married July 4th, but the question becomes who will have the fireworks. Elizabeth's determined to take Amy Lou back east and spend her summer on the beach of Cape Cod, not on the hot, dry Texas prairie. Amy Lou can't wait to marry Bobby despite her aunt's attitude. And Jake can't wait to remind Elizabeth of what they once shared, much to her consternation. Even Pookie, Elizabeth's Shih Tzu, falls for the ranch hands. The dry prairie won't be safe with this cast of characters on fire!<br />BLAME IT ON COWBOYS by Kristine Rolofson is a vivacious, lively storywith plenty of tease to keep the pages turning. From the opening line, I was drawn into this amusing love story and couldn't put it down. For fans of cowboy romances, BLAME IT ON COWBOYS has it all: romance, a terrific plot and subplot, and memorable characters. Indeed, don't all women love sexy men in tight jeans? Highly recommended.	2001-02-03
2116318:US	49693975	RR2IJAQU6MOCM	0553579606	14890872	Ashes to Ashes: A Novel (Sam Kovac and Nikki Liska)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Very highly recommended	Tami Hoag's ASHES TO ASHES is a meaty, suspenseful thriller that draws the reader to the world of tracking a serial killer, exposing the clashes between law enforcement, victims and politicians. With humor, sensitivity and energy, Hoag creates a novel that sure to be a best seller. <br />The cops call him Smokey Joe. The public calls him the Cremator. The killer burns his victim's bodies in Minneapolis parks. Unfortunately, the public doesn't truely become outraged until until one of his victims turns out to be the daughter of a local billionaire. Suddenly, the pressure mounts to find the evil creature who mutilates and burns his victims.<br />When a homeless teenager witnesses a burning, former FBI agent Kate Conlan, who now works as a victim-witness advocate, and the Bureau's top serial-killer profiler John Quinn must join forces to find the killer before he strikes again. But Kate and John shared something special in the past, and now they must find a way to work together despite their painful history.<br />Tami Hoag writes with an enthusiasm and intensity that carries the reader along on a wave of tension, humor and fear until the last page is turned. ASHES TO ASHES is a gruesome look at a sadistic killer, but it is also a revealing expose of those who are determined to stop him. While the details are horrid, and certainly not appropriate to anyone uncomfortable with mutiliation and murder, the details are carefully presented in appropriate context. Moreover, the humor of the investigating officers provides much need comic relief with a flair seldom matched.	2001-02-03
2116320:US	49693975	R32N8LMCRS37WV	1584951036	364351260	Everlasting	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Highly recommended	As a Nor'easter rolls in, Marilyn can't shake her apprehension as her fiancé David drives off into the storm for a mysterious business appointment. A highly respected businesswoman, Marilyn moved to Sherry, Maine to open the new division of Midwest Viking, not to fall in love with her boss. But within hours of her arrival, they both knew that their hearts were fully engaged. Rather than the happily-ever-after that the couple expected, however, a tragic accident leaves their relationship in tatters and David paralyzed. <br />When David recognizes the extent of his injuries, he fears he can never be the man that his fiancée deserves. He may never walk again, and he may never be her lover, either. Furthermore, his ex-girl friend Cheryl Bridges was the mysterious meeting, and was the passenger in the jaguar with him when the accident occurred. Even David's parents are baffled at the presence of the woman in the car, especially when Cheryl announces they've been together too long for him to marry someone else. <br />As the action escalates, you have to wonder why in the world any woman would tolerate the disrespect paid by David. However, if you can get beyond that point, explained away by male pride and ego when facing a debilitating injury, then this love story becomes quite memorable. Cheryl is a powerful and interesting character who lends this romance a remarkable appeal. Juxtaposed with the conniving Cheryl, this is a fun read that I Highly recommend.	2001-02-03
2116324:US	49693975	RSHVC07T6IGH3	0373243391	345343052	When Baby Was Born (That'S My Baby!) (Special Edition, 1339)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Recommended	Jodi O'Donnell gives the overused, seldom believable plot involving amnesia a new twist in this highly improbable, yet very believable love story WHEN BABY WAS BORN. O'Donnell's deft pen doesn't disappoint the discerning romance lover while never stretching too far. Indeed, she doles out restraint and imagination in equal measure, creating a tale to be remembered. <br />A devastating turn of events leaves Sara with only a scrap of paper that contains her name, Cabe's name, his address, his phone number, and directions to his ranch from the interstate. Where she comes from, the life she's left behind, and the father of her baby are a total mystery. <br />Seven years ago, Cabe and his brother parted ways, and only an unopened letter arriving this day spans the gap. Before he can read it, however, Cabe finds a woman in his bed. A beautiful mystery with entrancing blue eyes who is obviously in labor. Deep into the night, alone in the blizzard and cut off from help, Cabe aids the laboring woman, helping her to bring forth a new life. But even the sight of baby Cabe isn't enough to spark memories. <br />When Cabe at least sees the note Sara carries, he immediately recognizes the handwriting as his brother's. A woman had come between the brother's once before, and Cabe vows not to allow history to repeat itself, even at the expense of his heart. <br />As Sara struggles to regain her memory, she's also determined to find a way back to the magic that she and Cabe shared on the night her child was born. But Cabe seems equally determined to distance himself from her. <br />WHEN BABY WAS BORN is a happy, feel good romance that provides delightful entertainment. O'Donnell's gentle approach to mending hearts leaves the reader richly satisfied. I heartily recommend WHEN BABY WAS BORN to romance lovers looking for a plot with a bit of a unique twist.	2001-02-03
2116325:US	49693975	R1S62OEAODZ7VU	1930364539	765919659	Hotline To Heaven	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Highly recommended	Darrell Bain pushes the envelope of plausibility in this lighthearted, entertaining tale of a con artist and the woman who steals his heart. HOTLINE TO HEAVEN is the story of a con artist who falls victim to his own weaknesses in this humorous tale of love and duplicity.<br />Ed Tanner just pulled off the greatest con. Too bad that he took a bimbo to Las Vegas to celebrate and she absconded with the money. With very little left in his pockets, Ed drops a quarter into the Salvation Army's coffers and meets the beautiful, extremely innocent Violet. Soon his finds his way to the Salvation Army's shelter, and into the heart of Violet.<br />Despite other's protests, Violet invests her life savings in Ed's new scheme. While she believes he's sincere, Ed has a brilliant idea to line his pockets yet again. He starts God's Fan Club with Violet at the forefront, looking like an angel. He isn't, however, prepared for his heart to be swept away by the innocent. <br />Ed introduces Violet to the simple things of life such as pretty clothes, jewelry and alcohol. Soon she finds herself swept away on the publicity and excitement of her new life, completely unaware that the man she loves is planning to leave her high and dry.<br />While Violet's innocence is almost unbelievable, the sharp contrast she provides to the Ed's world provides the reader with sparkling entertainment. The book is a quick read, with a wonderfully deft voice that leaves the reader quite satisfied by the end. Darrell Bain's cast of characters and fun plot will have the reader looking for more of his work!	2001-02-03
2116327:US	49693975	R1W77WBJZI9YT6	1581240163	542891753	The Seventy-Ninth Prince	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very highly recommended	For readers who loved A WIZARD SCORNED, Patricia White's back with two wonderful new tales of magic and adventure in A MAGIC DWELLS. With her classic story telling grace, White rewards the fantasy fan with unsurpassed tales of depth and strength of characterization. <br />THE SEVENTY-NINTH PRINCE: The seventy-eight princes who've gone before Kendal failed miserably. Now Kendal has been crowned the seventy-ninth prince, and must find the River Monster's daughter before the grieving mother completely poisons the land with her unending tears. Only a year and a day was granted to find the missing girl, and now only days remain before it's too late, the goddess dies, and the kingdom with her. But Kendal has a powerful advantage, though he doesn't realize it. For his mother secured the companionship and loyality of Molly, a hedgewitch who will honor her word to preserve his life on the journey, or die trying. <br />THE DRAGON OF SUMMER: At the end of a long, hot, winding tunnel lies the fate of the Princess Royal of the Outer Isles. Betrayed by her brother's love of the game of chance, Tessa faces her death as a sacrifice to The Dragon of Summer with grace and strength, maintaining her dignity where the eighteen princesses sacrificed before her could not. Nevertheless, it will take more than strength of character to survive the dangers inflicted by magic. However, Tessa has a special gift, not of magic, but the ability to perceive it, and refuse it's call. And her fate, the fate of Dragon's gatekeeper, the eighteen princesses, and even the dragon itself depends on her gift. <br />Readers will find White's tales mesmerizing as she creates a world of fantasy where dragons rule and the wisest and most honorable dwell in sharp contrast to the vain and foolish. Indeed, White has the ability to create a masterful, though disliked character, with the same flair that she creates her remarkable heros. I took great pleasure in the follishness of the prince who was victim of his ownweaknesses, even to the point of foolish blindness and childishness. White's voice reveals power and magic with a stately and magistic flair seldom matched, and must not be missed.	2001-02-03
2116342:US	49693975	R299MZLUB51ZZ0	1930364938	791774538	Cascade (a Justine Edwards Thriller)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Recommended	CASCADE by T. J. Fox presents the first of the Justine Edwards novels. Blending suspense, mystery and a light dose of romance, CASCADE provides the perfect quick read for readers who seek strong female characters with flair. <br />Too attractive to be taken seriously, Justine desperately determines that she will prove herself on this, the first assignment that takes her beyond the routine, minor cases that always reach her desk. Her partner, Blake Hampton, assigned to be her external contact, knows the real reason, which he is not allowed to divulge, why she was selected for the case. Although he tries to discourage her from accepting, Justine wants this opportunity and will not be deterred. Working undercover, Justine plunges into a world of luxury, drugs, pornography and grisly murder. Unknowingly, she exactly resembles the suspected killer's last victim. <br />Shadowed by her handsome superior in the Bureau, Justine soon finds herself in a maze of murder, incest, fear and suspicion. Justine increasingly finds it difficult to know that the pleasant and charming Preston Montgomery is a brutal murderer. However, when the safety net is cut, Justine finds herself in the escalating danger, and in the control of a murderous psychopath. The varied and horrible happenings, and unsettling discoveries, keep the suspense at peak level. <br />While Fox's writing style at time falls victim to too much telling, not enough showing, the intense plot overrides any deficiencies. A powerful storyteller, Fox creates a novel of tension and murder that will keep the pages turning.	2001-02-03
2116349:US	49693975	R2FKRDIXSZZBS2	0373243510	756614933	Bachelor's Baby Promise: That's My Baby! (Special Edition, 1351)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Highly recommended	Jarred Montgomery knows he left the hospital too early, but he's accustomed to travel and bachelorhood, not forced confinement. Never mind the crutches, the cast on his leg, or the steep stairs to his apartment. All he wanted was to make it to his own door, turn the baby over to the nanny his sister hired, and take a few pain killers before getting some much needed sleep. He didn't prepare for the devastating effect Jenny Stratford, the new nanny, would have on his libido, both at first sight, and in the weeks to follow.<br />Jenny immediately knew that Jared could be dangerous to her peace of mind. An elementary school teacher, Jenny loves babies. Always had. She hoped to have house full of her own some day. So when Jared's sister mentioned the summer nanny job, it seemed the perfect opportunity to spend the summer in New Orleans allowing the gossip of her broken engagement to die down in her home town. She had thought her fiancé's love words had been real until she overheard a conversation indicating he really needed her to raise his two rapscallion boys. <br />Both Jenny and baby Jamie are orphans. Jenny values love, that sense of belonging and being needed, and wanted, thereby recognizing the future needs of the child. While Jared's name is on the baby's birth certificate, however, he has no intention of raising his best friend's child. Rather, he intends to see that a loving, two-parent family who can't have a child of their own adopts Jamie. While Jared recovers from the explosion that killed Jamie's father, he intends to arrange for the adoption. Jared, however, didn't count on his changing feelings for both Jenny and Jamie; and he certainly underestimated the power of a baby's smile. <br />The inevitable clash of values in BACHELOR'S BABY PROMISE makes for delightful reading. Barbara Mahon writes with deep respect and understanding of one man's mixed emotions regarding giving up bachelorhood and freedom in return for the universal power of love. With creative flair, Mahon presents both the strengths and weaknesses of her hero and heroine, creating both respect and sympathy in the heart of the reader. With an additional touch of humor, BACHELOR'S BABY PROMISE goes on my keeper shelf as highly recommended.	2001-02-03
2116350:US	49693975	R1GOOIJULVXPAQ	1930364458	147673620	Midsumer Magic	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very highly recommended	Filled with beauty and imagination, MIDSUMMER MAGIC is a fanciful story of unicorns and faeries. Written with majestic grace and beautifully illustrated, MIDSUMMER MAGIC creates a tale of fantasy not to be missed.<br />Every June 21st, or MIDSUMMER NIGHT, the faerie of the deep wood gather to celebrate this &quot;most high Magical Night of Nights.&quot; The King and Queen of Faerie ride in procession on the backs of very special unicorns, chosen for their love of one another.<br />The King and Queen hold court and pronounce judgements, ending faerie squabbles and conducting marriages between merfolk and gnomes. The royal couple then lead the kingdom in a wondrous dance, and magic brings peace and prosperity to the land for another year.<br />But one year only one unicorn couple in the land that can be found for the procession. While they love each other deeply, they are old, and their coats are long and shaggy. Sadly, the Queen cannot ride upon the unicorn, for the rough coat hurts her legs terribly. And without the procession, there can be no magic of Midsummer. The result would be famine, fighting, and disaster. <br />But deep in the forest faerie magic is strong. With love and cooperation, anything is possible. What a lovely lesson well taught in a fantasy tale for children. An insightful and original retelling of the legends of faeries and unicorns, this story is perfect to read aloud--a chapter a night--to a delighted child. Or it is also good for an older adventurer ready to enter this magical land. This reviewer eagerly looks forward to more tales of imagination from Ms Alexander.	2001-02-03
2116356:US	49693975	R2RPHPY270F31M	0967792908	163317049	Hello Willow	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very highly recommended	HELLO WILLOW by Kimberly Poulton is a gently enchanting story of a young girl and the lovely willow tree that grows just outside her bedroom window. <br />The child's imagination carries her through jungle safaris and picnics, leading to cheerful games of hide-and-seek. Through each of the pages, the willow tree offers shelter, play, and comfort. Further, the charming illustrations create graceful flights of fancy and delight.<br />This captivating tale will happily entertain young readers and the young at heart. The fluid movement of words and illustrations creates a mesmerizing, poetic tempo appropriate for bedtime reading. I very highly recommend it!	2001-02-03
2116358:US	49693975	R21S3NB0LDGBNG	1929613334	843498987	Diamondback	Books	5	16	16	N	N	highly recommended	Combine humor, family secrets and murder, and the resulting DIAMONDBACK by Elizabeth Dearl keeps this fast-paced mystery both entertaining and surprising to the end! <br />Mystery author Taylor Madison manages to wreck her prized Volkswagen when a rattler sudden appears on the highway and she swerves to avoid it. Her five hundred-mile journey ends in Perdue City, Texas, population 2,948, where she's soon aghast to learn that she's arrived just in time for a rattlesnake festival. Taylor's purpose for coming to Perdue City is to confront her estranged aunt, a woman whose existance Taylor only learned about a week following her mother's death. Taylor had unexpectedly come across a card tucked away in her mother's personal effects, suggesting that her mother had not been open or honest about her past. <br />When she hikes into town, Taylor's relieved to finally find an open hardware store to get warm. The owner apologizes that there's no taxi in town, but does offer the services of the local sheriff as chauffeur. The sheriff, Miles Crawford, takes a personal interest in her from the first moment he sees Taylor. First he drives her to her aunt's house, where she's quickly ejected from the home. Then he appoints her deputy sheriff to earn money for her car repair, and helps to secure a room over the hardware store while she stays in Perdue City. <br />The sheriff's kindness ends rather quickly, however, when his housekeeper finds him dead in his recliner. Since no one else was immediately available, Taylor is called to the scene, where she observes several inconsistencies that point, not to an accidental rattlesnake bite, but murder. <br />Who would have thought rattlesnakes could be funny and entertaining? But in Dearl's hands, the rattlesnakes and the ferret steal the show. With lots of rattlesnake lore, plenty of comic relief, and a generous dose of attitude, I couldn't put DIAMONDBACK down. I highly recommend it.	2001-02-03
2116360:US	49693975	R2U49YUBTZ84OH	0373243545	26189626	Bundle Of Miracles (Special Edition, 1354)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Highly recommended	Abbie Latham tries to only live in today, negating the power of the past and of the future. Such a philosophy seems the only way to live with the choices made eight years ago, when she left the man she loved. When she lands the job of librarian in her home town of Point Narrows, Abbie returns knowing she'll have to find closure for the way she left Ben. But when she moves into the Victorian house dripping gingerbread trim, she couldn't help remembering the way she and Ben had discussed trimming back those same bushes. <br />Ben Chase was only twenty-two and about to graduate college when Abbie left him the dear John letter, saying she needed to find herself. He'd suspected that she was pregnant when she and her well-to-do parents suddenly sold their house, pulled up stakes and disappeared. Soon town rumors surfaced that Abbie was seriously ill. Although Ben tried to find Abbie, he quickly found her family's powerful influence prevented location. When Ben hears Abbie's back in town, he vows to avoid her; nevertheless, he found himself turning the police cruiser down the street to the Victorian house on Leeward Road. Further, he can't deny the truth in her eyes when she admits she left town not because she was pregnant, but because she was ill. It wasn't the answer he expected.<br />Ben expected to keep Abbie at a distance, despite her return. But when she discovers a baby heavily swaddled and left on the steps of the library, Abbie must join forces with Ben to care for the infant. Despite his resolution to maintain distance, Ben finds it difficult to hold his feelings in check regarding both Abbie and the foundling. As he rediscovers Abbie's tenderness, he rediscovers his own gentle nature and desire for love. Yet there are many obstacles to be faced, both past and present, if they are to share a future.<br />A BUNDLE OF MIRACLES creates just the right blend of feistiness and tenderness to keep the reader hooked. With a touch of charisma and a heavy dose of humor, Amy Frazier will delight romance lovers. Further, I applaud Frazier's choice of heroines, for not only making the character a survival of breast cancer, but allowing her to not choose reconstructive surgery--thereby making Abbie a bold and unprecedented character with spirit and strength readers won't quickly forget. Highly recommended.	2001-02-03
2116367:US	49693975	R34FIKG9T9SG7L	1584950633	967479735	Traveling Bug	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Recommended	Modern challenges meet old-fashioned romance in Edna Curry's TRAVELING BUG. A lovely, light read, TRAVELING BUG will definitely feed the need of romance and tropical heat.<br />Jeff Banning left his father's computer business two years ago to become a tour guide. While he had loved programming, he resented his father's remarriage to a much younger woman so quickly after his mother's death from cancer. But when owner Vince Banning becomes certain that someone is stealing software through the company web site, only Jeff is in the position to stop the crime before the company is driven out of business. <br />Jeff uses his position of tour guide and family influence to land a transfer to Minneapolis where can accompany Banning employees on their upcoming cruise. What he didn't know was that he stole Diane Foreman's chance at promotion and fulfillment of her dreams. <br />Diane has long dreamed of accompanying the tours she schedules. Certain she has at last earned her promotion, she was deeply resentful to learn that some rich playboy had landed her much coveted position. Worse, when Jeff shows up at the office, she finds herself making foolish mistakes because he makes concentration so difficult. But, when Jeff invites her to help as tour guide for the Banning Corporation, she quickly agrees.<br />The resulting sultry nights in Mexico certainly build a beautiful backdrop for romance. But what's a girl to think when one moment the man is kissing her, and the next working intensely with another woman; one who's obviously sexy, available, and interested. As the tropical nights heat up, Diane finds herself succumbing to the tropical heat. Yet for every moment of pleasure, there seems to be another of mystery, as she can't quite unravel the connections that Jeff holds to his father, the sexy secretary, and the secrets he's obviously keeping.<br />A light hearted tropical romp in the sun, TRAVELING BUG definitely warms the imagination with its tropical delights. Lovers of light romance will find this traveling adventure quite enjoyable.	2001-02-03
2116389:US	49693975	R3VVQTYAEO4J9O	1929034164	972860604	Bridge Through The Mist	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Highly recommend	Fans of LOVE FROM THE ASHES and BEST BUDDIES will recognize Denise Agnew's rich voice in her latest novel, BRIDGES THROUGH THE MIST. In this novel, Agnew's characteristic spirit and passion shine through with intense clarity and ingenuity, providing a captivating read. <br />On the day before her wedding, Alenna Carstairs found her fiancé in bed with another woman. When she threw a hissy fit back at the law office where they both work, she was fired. Alenna had nothing left to lose, so she left America behind for a once in a lifetime opportunity at an archeological dig at a dark Scottish castle with a lurid past. As she scrapes away dirt, Alenna unexpectedly discovers a lovely garnet ring. She places it on her finger, returns to digging, and moments later she realizes that her surroundings have radically changed. A horse and knight loom out of the mist and nearly trample her.<br />Thrust into the fourteenth century, Alenna confronts the societal restrictions enforced by the time. Her independent, outspoken nature refuses to yield as demanded, gaining her the attention of the knight, Tylan of MacBrahin. A sexy, powerful man, she feels unaccountably attracted to him, almost as if they have known one another before. Indeed, feelings of deja vu that began at the archeological dig quickly confirm a world she has somehow known before, right down to the appropriate moment to curtsey to the castle owner's Baron.<br />Unfortunately, the very spirit that attracts Tylan also attracts the attention of the Baron, a man capable of unspeakable evil. Tylan finds himself irrepressibly drawn to Alenna, both by feelings he's kept long hidden, and determination to protect her from danger she doesn't understand. Nevertheless, he desperately tries to resist his feelings, as he has vowed never to become involved with another woman, believing he is cursed after what happened to the last two women in his life.<br />Lovers of time travel romance will delight in BRIDGES THROUGH THE MIST. Agnew has a remarkable ability for story telling, making the reader a participant in the story. She doesn't shy away from the taboo; yet she presents shocking events with grace and insight, creating a believable, beguiling tale of romance.	2001-02-03
2116396:US	49693975	R23OTPHAXPQAW9	0966821920	554289649	Learning to Be You, It's an Inside Job: Recovery and Healing for the Loved Ones of the Substance-Addicted	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Highly recommended	For the friends and family of addicts, LEARNING TO BE YOU, IT'S AN INSIDE JOB by Brenda Ehrler, throws a first-hand lifeline to those living with substance abuse. For over nine years, Brenda lived with a practicing substance abuser. Here she shares her experience, strength, and hope as one who has learned to live beyond her loved one's addictions. <br />Brenda offers comfort, not in a situational list of do's and don'ts, but in how to heal one's inside, which is the only way to truly affect change in one's life. Written with all the compassion and knowledge of one who not only survived an addict, but came out the other side in learning her own life lessons, Brenda shows how to use that experience to become a fulfilled, happy person.<br />Brenda shows how to go from reacting to the circumstances of one's life to taking responsibility for one's life, and manifesting the kind of life previously only dreamed of. She shows how happiness isn't created by external pleasures, contrary to our cultural belief. Instead, happiness in manifested from the inside out, beginning with finding each person's own spiritual center. Connecting to a Higher Power of one's individual understanding allows one to reach beyond self-imposed limitations. How? By learning to change our belief systems, and values. By substituting self love and self acceptance for self indulgence and control. By taking responsibility for one's actions and replacing negative self talk with positive affirmations.<br />A veteran of self-help books, I found LEARNING TO BE YOU, IT'S AN INSIDE JOB to be one of the healthiest approaches to family recovery I have encountered. Like Brenda, I've hung out in the halls of twelve-step programs for many years. Within these pages, I find many of the lessons I had to learn the hard way. My path certainly would have been smoothed had I found this book sixteen years ago.	2001-02-03
2116400:US	49693975	R1QGKM1X104T3N	1929034970	444979560	Secrets of the Heart	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Highly recommended	In SECRETS OF THE HEART, Laureen Kwock creates a charming, old-fashioned love story with a new age twist. Prepare to thoroughly enjoy the pleasure of attraction and love counterbalanced by suspicion and danger. <br />Someone is stealing from Hoodson Industries. Nevertheless, Samantha Morgan is immensely displeased to have &quot;new ager&quot; Brad Collins sharing her office and applying his skills of graphology, or hand writing analysis. As the head of sales at Hoodson Industries, she agrees that the internal thief must be captured, but she also believes that Hoodson Industries needs a detective, not some far-fetched Sherlock Holmes complete with a magnifying glass. Nevertheless, if her boss Ned believes Brad can find the criminal in a quiet, undercover method, then she'll help make it happen. <br />Sam quickly finds herself ill-prepared to cope with her own errant thoughts as Brad goes about his business. She's distracted by thoughts of Brad's natural grace and lanky good looks. Sam likewise captivates Brad, yet the business at hand keeps intervening in their relationship. When three thousand dollars is planted in Sam's trunk, only Brad's quick pursuit of a mysterious man prevents Sam from being incriminated. Yet Sam is still convinced her boss no longer trusts her. And she's also suspicious of some of the figures in the company's books that just don't seem right. As danger heats up, it's Brad who must rescue Sam from certain harm. <br />SECRETS OF THE HEART is lovely, entertaining tale with just enough tension and danger to keep the reader hooked. Laureen's splashes of humor and unexpected plot twists combined with her fresh language will keep the lover of romance happily entertained. I recommend SECRETS OF THE HEART to all romance lovers.	2001-02-03
2116403:US	49693975	R1GMVHJ8OMC7QW	1929034466	875425283	Kiss of Deceit	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very highly recommended	KISS OF DECEIT, another racy romantic thriller by Pat Rasey, will keep the heart pounding, the blood boiling, and the most hardened of readers entertained. Combining extremely sexual and sensual moments with the pursuit of a ruthless killer whose parting kiss means murder, this novel is a must read. <br />Erotic asphyxiation -- the cutting off of airways during sexual play -- leads to murder. The vicious game of power and control becomes a murder weapon in Henry County, and now it's up to homicide detective LeAnne McVeigh to find the killer. The murderer begins with stripper Jillian, but soon targets the wife of a prominent doctor, with apparently nothing in common between the victims -- and no clues at the crime scene except a motive to punish the adulterous. <br />The death of Jillian brings her grieving biker husband Snake into Leanne's sedate, peaceful, private world. LeAnne is ill-prepared to deal with her overwhelming attraction to this extraordinary man. Cops and bikers just don't have relations hips, but neither of them can fight the powerful heat. Unfortunately, LeAnne's fiance Chad Baker, Henry County's prosecutor, may have something to say about his soon-to-be bride's interest in a biker. <br />KISS OF DECEIT takes a unique walk on the wild side, exploring the world of bike rs and deceit. Combining political intrigue, murder, and raw sexual power, KISS OF DECEIT will certainly satisfy fans who already loved Pat's first novel, DEADLY OBSESSION.	2001-02-03
2116414:US	49693975	R2F6STOK4F7BPJ	0373258720	962949643	Nobody Does It Better (Temptation, 772)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Very highly recommended	Julie Kenner's NOBODY DOES IT BETTER provides a sexy read that includes the outrageous and the humorous. This light and quick novel will leave the reader hungering for more from this author's pen.<br />Within twenty-four hours, Paris Sommer's plan goes right down the drain. She had it all figured out. Write a couple more testosterone-laden adventures under her pen name, pad her bank account, and then write the great American novel that academia and her father would be proud of. Somewhere in the mix she would find a nice husband, have a couple of kids and live in a house in the suburbs. And it looked like her plan was going to work; that is, until the hero of her fiction walked through the door. <br />Devin O'Malley, owner of a local pub and son of a con artist, couldn't help overhearing Paris and Rachel's conversation. If Paris needed Montgomery Alexander to walk into a party thrown in his honor, then that's what would happen. A little hair dye, a change of clothes and a quick study of her previous novels, and Devin transforms himself into the supposed author. But he hadn't counted on a three-week stint of imitating the fictional author, nor had he figured out where he's going to get $20,000 to keep the mob from doing horrible things to his father. But what's the mob compared to his wild attraction and desperate longing for Paris?<br />This sexy, funny tale will leave the reader in stitches. Julie Kenner is a rising star with romance, and bears watching. Her indomitable style, mischievous romantic streak, and quick moving plots are wonderful entertainment. As a reviewer, I've already had a sneak peak at her next book THE CAT'S FANCY, due out in August. Both NOBODY DOES IT BETTER and THE CAT'S FANCY are not to be missed!	2001-02-03
2116430:US	49693975	R23G7ZSSUQLC0F	1582000212	174501619	A Wizard Scorned [3-1/2 Disk, HTML]	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very highly recommended!!	A WIZARD SCORNED by Patricia White weaves a complex tale of fantasy, magic and love destined to become a classic. With the grace of a master storyteller, White quickly hooked this reviewer, compelling me to remain within her enchanted world, and left me disappointed to leave when the last page was turned. Never has a love story captivated me as A WIZARD SCORNED.<br />Jane, Vice President of Smith, Smith, and Melrose, a Fortune 500 management consulting firm, is happily ensconced in a high-powered, demanding, time-devouring life style that leaves no time for personal relationships, and certainly not for love. Jane's parents died when she was four--thirty-four years ago--leaving her in the hands of an aunt who cared little for love, but plenty for hard work.<br />When her personal secretary told Jane of a wizard named Will, she only accompanied Maggie to confront the wizard. Jane believed him to be a con artist. What she found was a young, sincere wizard, a disruption in his spell casting, and herself thrust into an unfamiliar world. <br />The wizard Cordelia had interrupted Will's trasportation spell and sent Jane to a whorehouse on another world, while kidapping Will's brides. Indeed, &quot;Hell has no fury like a wizard scorned.&quot; When a gentelman spurned the wizard Cordelia, all of womankind was made to pay for the slight. Cordelia kidnapped the women with her magic, including Will's would-be brides, holding them all in pens at her castle, leaving them exposed to the elements and starving. The brides are Will's responsibility, young though he is, and he is honor bound to find them.<br />In this strange new world, Jane knows someone with silver eyes watches and whispers her name. She wants to reach out, to protect the great black cat that accompanies Will, for the cat is something more than a cat. But she doesn't dare. Sojourner is a man that's not a man but a cat, fallen victim to an evil spell. He loves Jane; has always loved her.<br />Jane is the woman of black fire; she has the ability to free Sojourner from the curse that keeps him a cat. There were gifts long promised, but gifts of great love promised to a man, not to a cat. But perhaps it's too late for the love-magic that was destined between them. Vague dreams follow Jane, memories of a dead queen and her babe, of a man who destroyed a kingdom. And only magic can bring back the love that can save them all.<br />Written with an intensity seldom matched, A WIZARD SCORNED captures the essence of the ideal magical tale with an original flare unique to Patricia White. A captivating plot, believably fascinating characters, and a liberal dose of magic has left this reviewer clamoring for more from this incredible author.	2001-02-03
2116435:US	49693975	R3DIKRO3N7O9HB	192903475X	312107660	Love From The Ashes	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Highly recommended	LOVE FROM THE ASHES by Denise Agnew is a powerful, original romance guaranteed to satisfy the most demanding romance reader. Set in San Francisco in 1906, historical accuracy sets the remarkable tone and background of this fascinating glimpse into the past. <br />Nathaniel Dempsey, Nate, is accustomed to division. Coming from Ireland, he has known religious division. Now a member of the San Francisco working class, he knows class division. Yet despite the barriers of wealth and background between them, those divisions aren't enough to keep his attraction and love for Grace under control. <br />Grace comes from a world of wealth and privilege. Raised in the highest social circles, life in Denver had been an endless sea of social events including parties, balls, weddings and funerals, all very carefully supervised according to very proper rules. But when Grace refuses her sixth proposal, her mother and stepfather banish her to San Francisco to live with her father. Delighted with her newfound freedom, Grace and her stepmother Mary become involved with the suffragette movement. <br />Grace's father hires Nate to chauffeur his wife and daughter in his new Studebaker. Of course the independent Grace insists upon driving lessons, throwing herself headlong into the adventure. But she wasn't prepared to fall in love with her father's chauffeur. Nor to confront her father's disappointment and displeasure in her desire to pursue the suffragette movement. <br />LOVE FROM THE ASHES is a delightful reminder of priorities. Combining romance and tragedy, love and unexpected danger, it is a marvelous reminder of what beauty may grow in a place swept clean by fire when love is allowed to grow.	2001-02-03
2116449:US	49693975	R1SV8ZFEI35CUV	037324357X	200649566	A Man Alone (Morgans Mercenaries: Maverick Hearts, Silhouette Special Edition, 1357)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	promising, but I wasn't satisfied	Returned to the states and provided the best care possible, Thane spends weeks recovering in Sedona, Arizona. Thane harbors great resentment toward his mother. As a child, Thane idolized his father. When his parents divorced and his mother forced him to move to a ranch in Arizona, Thane was left feeling imprisoned. As soon as he turned eighteen, Thane escaped to the marines, rising through the ranks quickly. Now all his goals are a risk, along with his leg.<br />Thane's mother arranges excellent nursing care. Coincidentally, Paige Black was a high school acquaintance. Despite distant, yet mutual, admiration, the young people had never been close, but as adults they are delighted to be thrown together. Paige fears growing too close, however, because Thane is determined to save his leg, recover, and return to his life in the marines.<br />While A MAN ALONE has a terrific hook in the beginning, I felt disappointed with the plot which seemed to be handled rather superficially. The heroine wastes a great deal of time on self-esteem issues without displaying a temperament to have overcome her past or win the man she loves. Nevertheless, if you've been entertained by this author's books in the past, you will probably enjoy this one as well. Further, the backdrop of Native American Indians should be of special interest to those who like reading about matters Indian.	2001-02-03
2116451:US	49693975	R1PWZMWCQRGJY6	1930364342	263339087	The Naked Shield	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very highly recommended	THE NAKED SHIELD by Christina M. Walker is a poetic vision of a vanquished world. Indeed, it is so richly detailed that the reader is lured into the dream world of Spirit where the Dream and Reality become one.<br />One hundred and fifty years before Bobby's birth, his ancestor Red Sky dreamed of a future without buffalo or The People. Carrying the dream shield of his grandfather, Red Sky sought understanding of the dream when he perished alone in the desert. But the people did not forget the man who dreamed, even when they had been banished to reservations and a world without buffalo or freedom. Eventually Bobby finds this shield and is visited by the ghosts of his ancestors, in an epiphany that changes the path of the rest of his life.<br />As we follow Bobby's struggles to find his path, we see him buffeted by forces he perceives to be beyond his control. His mother is involved with a dangerous and cruel man, they live in poverty, and he's lost his job and girlfriend. Moreover, he believes himself to be judged by his heritage because he is Native American. Without knowing it, Bobby's dissatisfaction leads him directly to the home of his ancestors. <br />The poetic lyricism of THE NAKED SHIELD also demands comment. As Christine recounts Red Sky's life, the language flows like a river, gently tugging the reader into the flow and movement, without a clear destination. The abrupt change to fowl language accompanying the murder of Red Sky is extremely jarring, underscoring the vicious intent behind the killing. Rarely does a writer have such mastery of voice, particularly in a first novel. As the novel picks up the Bobby's story, the language again adapts to the person, becoming somewhat lyrical, but carefully balanced with the tensions of modern civilization.<br />Although his mother has raised him off the reservation, and did not teach him the spirituality of his grandfathers, Bobby feels drawn to something beyond the mundane existence that currently defines his life. And that sense, this novel is more than the story of a lost people, it is also the story of all that seek more than the immediate gratification offered by our mundane existence. THE NAKED SHIELD speaks to the universal desire to fulfill one's destiny. It is a moving, extraordinary blend of past and present. For lovers of Native American fiction, for those who can appreciate the beauty of language, and for readers who enjoy watching a quest for identity and spirituality, this novel is must a read.	2001-02-03
2116458:US	49693975	R252EQYI3MTWZO	0373243537	248675690	Millionaire Takes A Bride (Here Comes The Brides) (Special Edition, 1353)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Highly Recommended	MILLIONAIRE TAKES A BRIDE is the first of three books released over three months about triplets who were separated at birth. With a fast paced plot and fun characters, romance readers will be delighted by this latest release by Pamela Toth.<br />In a case of mistaken identity, Ryan Noble whisks away Sara Daniels, complete in her wedding gown and tiara, only moments before her wedding ceremony begins. A couple of tranquilizers to calm the pre-wedding jitters, and she awakens in the vehicle of a strange, if incredibly sexy, man who insists on calling her Jessica Walker. When Ryan carried Sara off he forgot one shoe, her purse, and a letter addressed to her fiancé -- a letter she never planned to deliver, meaning no one knew she was kidnapped.<br />In only two days, Sara and Ryan yield to a powerful attraction to one another. But Ryan continues to believe she is Jessica, a missing heiress and the bride he has arranged to marry. Ryan was prepared to marry this missing Jessica, but it was to be a marriage of convenience, insuring the continuance of the family name and business. He did not plan to give away his heart to anyone, ever. Funny what a fireplace, a dog, and a lot of snow can do to one's intentions. <br />Sara likewise finds herself falling in love; ironically, when she had planned to marry a man she cared for, but did not love. Further, when she finds herself falling in love with her kidnapper, she also finds herself in the interesting dilemma of not being able to convince Ryan of her true identity.<br />Romance fans will thoroughly enjoy this book. I found the premise of triplets fun and refreshing over the much overused twins stories I frequently encounter. Indeed, the story is strong, the characters are real and the subplot fascinating. MILLIONAIRE TAKES A BRIDE is a delicious romance, with a delightful setting and just enough twists and turns to keep readers glued to the pages. I admittedly raced through the novel in only a day because I was swept away bythe story. I whole-heartedly look forward to the rest of the series. I highly recommend it!	2001-02-03
2116459:US	49693975	R3KQA1Z4EED6E8	0373258984	249337082	Jordan (Buckhorn Brothers, Book 4)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Highly recommended	Jordan was determined that he and his associates would convince the owner of The Swine, a rundown bar just across the county line, to institute a drink limit. He didn't expect to be mesmerized, however, by the live entertainment. As Jordan watched the sexy Georgia Barnes dance for the low class men of the renovated barn, he found himself held spell bound by an attraction so intense, so powerful, that he started a fight just because another man touched her. Never mind that Georgia was quiet experienced at fending off unwanted attention.<br />Georgia has no need of the clean cut, obviously not fitting-in man, who rushes to her defense. As other men tossed back drink after drink and flung cash at her feet they could ill afford, this one was different. And she didn't need different. In fact, she didn't need, and definitely didn't want, a man in her life -- especially a man who sips soda and steps in where other men would walk away. Georgia has convinced herself that she cannnot afford the time nor the emotional energy it takes for a relationship. Further, she fiercely guards her independence while fulfilling her responsibilities to her two young children and ill mother. Besides, her ex-husband taught her everything she ever wanted to know about men, and she's not interested in any more painful lessons.<br />Lori Foster presents a refreshing clash of backgrounds in Jordan and Georgia. While Jordan comes from a well-respected family in their small town, Georgia is new, not social, and had her first child at sixteen. Jordan is a vet and Georgia is an exotic dancer. Yet the intense attraction pulls these unlikely people together in an exciting, entertaining clash certain to entertain romance lovers. Foster creates a passionate, tension filled plot that is uniquely inventive. Indeed, the balance of walking on the wild side while maintaining integrity is a difficult mixture and a huge success with JORDAN. I highly recommend JORDAN.	2001-02-03
2116493:US	49693975	R28QPMEK25J8YN	158697081X	409113565	The Nabob's Bride	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Highly recommended	A welcome change from the stiff, moralistic novels of the past, PRIDE AND PREJUDICE by Jane Austen announced the arrival of the comedy of manners. For lovers of the beauty and splendor of this bygone era, Laureen Kwock's THE NABOB BRIDE returns the reader to the Austen's world of carriages, spinsterhood at twenty-three, and the comedy of manners. Certainly, Jane Austen herself would have delighted in this audacious tale of love and manners.<br />Orphaned at a young age, Marianne Fairchild is the ward of Viscount Chadding.  Chaperoned by his mother Lady Mulray, Marianne chafes at the quiet country life. A feted Beauty, she's turned down innumerable proposals, preferring to marry for love rather than societal reasons. When she meets Andrew Porteus, she knows she's found the right man, but he doesn't seem to feel the same.<br />Andrew is determined to maintain his distance from his brother's ward. He also is determined to prevent wagging tongues from casting nasty aspersions at Marianne. Unfortunately, circumstances quickly create more of a dilemma than he could have possibly imagined when he discovers that Marianne has a secret life, riding the roads as a highwayman, taking trinkets that quickly become things of great value in the telling of the tale. A bounty is placed on the highwayman's head, and Andrew is determined to protect Marianne at any cost.<br />Lucinda Presley has her own agenda. Five years ago Andrew was nothing but a penniless second son. But that has changed since his visit to India has greatly improved his fortune. At twenty-three and with a foul temper, Lucinda must marry soon, and is determined to use every power at her disposal to catch him.<br />The classic lover's triangle takes on interesting new shifts and great humor in Laureen's artful hands. In recounting the courtship of the independent Marianne Fairchild and Andrew Porteus, THE NABOB BRIDE illuminates with subtle humor the prejudices of society as a whole. A delightful read; I heartily recommend THE NABOB BRIDE to all Regency romance lovers.	2001-02-03
2116494:US	49693975	R3GYKSGH77H0LH	1930756003	935656613	Caterpillar Rescue	Books	5	0	0	N	N	highly recommended	Caterpillar Rescue is one of those wonderful, fun, children's books that are perfect for sharing a bit of computer time with the young ones. Preschoolers can click through this story about a child who finds a caterpillar and sees it returned to safety, with the adult reading along. The artwork is vivid and beautifully crated.	2001-02-03
2116495:US	49693975	R1SP4ZXVO107RJ	1890768227	39919378	Cat's Claw	Books	5	9	9	N	N	ok, I'm a sap for Cassidy and Cats	Cassidy McCabe returns in the fifth book of this series, proving that they only get better. For those who have followed the cats and love life of this extraordinary therapist who solves crimes on the side, Cassidy's back and better than ever. If you've not yet met this spunky, peanut-butter cup munching sleuth, don't wait another minute. CAT'S CLAW is definitely the cat's meow.<br />When Starshine adopted Cassidy McCabe, she inevitably changed her human's view of felines. The cat imparted the gift of love that her human reciprocated and eventually expanded to include concern for other felines as well. Consequently, when Cassidy's &quot;cat-lady&quot; neighbor is murdered, not only does Cassidy once again undertake to solve the murder, but also finds herself responsible for three housecats and nine feral cats. The reclusive Olivia never raises her blinds nor chats with neighbors. So when Cassidy decided to be neighborly in honor of their common concern for cats, Olivia bordered between suspicion and pleasure.<br />For the first time in twelve years, Cassidy notices that the blinds have been raised across the street. When she investigates, Olivia assures Cassidy that she is fine. But later that evening Cassidy returns to her neighbor's home, to find Olivia dead at the foot of her own stairs with a strange &quot;mountain man,&quot; an ex-con, passed out on the couch. Convinced that the mountain man didn't kill Olivia, Cassidy feels compelled to discover Olivia's secrets and the reason for her death.<br />Meanwhile, Cassidy's husband Zach continues his undercover work as a reporter, disguised as a drug-dealing thug in an effort to prove the dirty dealings of cops. However, the obligatory undercover personality seems to take over, pushing the gentle and loving husband aside, leaving Cassidy with a dangerous, rude imposter. So while Zach's personality disintegrates into that of a hoodlum, Cassidy finds herself busy with Olivia's cats and ex-con friend. Convinced that theman didn't murder Olivia, Cassidy will go to any length to find the real killer while the police accept a bogus confession.<br />Matthews has an awesome talent for not only weaving excellent tales, but also memorable subplots. I want Cassidy's grandma for my own, complete with her array of wigs and saucy attitude, although I can do without her nagging mother. And to tell how much I love Starshine would require confessing that I have an orange and white kitten named just for this literary feline. Indeed, CAT'S CLAW is very highly recommended.	2001-02-03
2116496:US	49693975	RL190PGPWPZJP	1929077726	138833512	The Madness of Maura Magee	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very highly recommended!	Danica would have preferred to ignore Aunt Jill's letter that asks what is to become of Maura. As the only child, the decision rests solely in her hands. Returning to her mother's cabin for Christmas criunniu, Danica travels alone, poignantly aware of the white line of skin circling her ring finger. It feels like an advertisement of her failed marriage to Paul, the man she still loves. Without him, Danica feels lost. As much as she had needed to be with her mother now, she'll still have to return to California to finish unfinished business, for she is an Irishwoman. Irishwoman, Danica has been taught, are &quot;generous to a fault, loyal to our clan, and foremost, in Aunt Jill's estimation anyway, courageous in the face of fear. Generosity was the easy part.&quot;<br />As a child Danica had pretended that the cabin was a castle, and that her mother and father were queen and king. She pretended her father was always there, though in reality he seldom was. It took many years for Danica to understand how her mother's mental illness had shaped all of their lives. And even longer to understand the events that led to her mother's break with reality. Her mother seemed to look at life through a veil, her eyes downcast, &quot;as if she were hiding from someone or something.&quot; According to the family curse, Maura was born behind a veil, destined to live a life of insanity after loosing her first love. Now it's up to Danica to break the curse, before she repeats her mother's tragic history.<br />As Danica fulfills her loyalties in opposite directions, she learns to love without expectation, to find humor in the unexpected, and joy in family. Rather than treating mental illness as a stigma, in Taylor Lindsay's deft hands, it becomes the bond that holds a family together. Yet it also becomes a matter of denial, a matter of taking a left when she should have taken a right as Danica's father once said. Isn't it those who closest to mental illness who wish to deny it the most?And yet, as this extending, loving Irish family displays, those that take a step away who see most clearly. As the daughter of a woman who is mentally ill, I applaud Lindsay's account of mental illness and the breaking of its legacy. Very highly recommended.	2001-02-03
2116497:US	49693975	RMBRCUWKA99AA	082176859X	344811741	Forever And Beyond (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Very highly recommended	The pirate Lady Cat returns in this historical romance, FOREVER AND BEYOND by Susan Grace. With the same indomitable spirit and fierce strength that endured her to fans of DESTINY'S LADY, Lady Cat once again faces overwhelming challenges with fire and determination, proving that she and her beloved Miles share a love that will last forever and beyond.<br />Four years have passed since the end of DESTINY'S LADY, but Catherine worries that her notorious past might yet catch up to her. Tales are still told of the fabulous Lady Cat who fights better than most men and captains her own ship. A five thousand pound bounty was posted on her head and songs still circulate in the pubs about her exploits. Now Catherine has much to protect from her past, especially her twins Diana and James.<br />At a ball she and Miles host, Catherine makes quite an impression on the ton. Unfortunately, she also catches the eye of Nicholas Atwood, who becomes determined to discover the secrets to her past. Soon Miles is drawn into service of the Navy using his previous experience and identity of The Fox in his country's service. Before he leaves, Miles gives Catherine a pendant in the ancient symbol of infinity, vowing to love her without end. Shortly thereafter, Catherine receives word of her husband's death.<br />Nicholas Atwood identifies Catherine as the famous pirate, and forces her into resuming the role to spy on the French. His cruelty results in tragedy, and soon Lady Cat finds herself aboard ship, once again in command. But this time her goal is to gain information in a valiant effort to protect her family and her husband's memory. <br />Lady Cat must ignore her grief in order to accomplish her mission. Moving among the elite of France, she must become Napoleon Bonaparte's latest mistress unless she can find a way to prevent it. And when Miles returns to England to find his beloved wife gone, it doesn't take much to connect Nicholas Atwood to the act of treason, to Catherine's departure, and to the service to Napoleon's General of Police, Joseph Fouche. Once again the Fox must return to the seas, and save Lady Cat before she's forced into Napoleon's personal service, or worse at the hands of the infamous Fouche.<br />Historical fans will truly enjoy this step into the past when sails ruled the seas and Napoleon ravaged the world. Moreover, if you've loved Lady Cat then be sure to watch for ENEMIES OF MY HEART, to be released in April 2001 by Kensington Publishing for its Zebra Romance line, which picks up with Catherine and Mile's daughter Diana. GOLDEN FIRE, published October 1999, tells the story of Catherine and Mile's son James, who falls in love with the empathic Miranda. Overall, this series, read separately or together, makes for a terrific escape into the past that this reviewer heartily recommends.	2001-02-03
2116501:US	49693975	R7CMNLZFKRR25	1930364962	13563485	The Ghost of the Bar	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Recommended	With the genuine flavor of one who has lived the life of a cowboy, Maynard Lehman's THE GHOST OF THE BAR &quot;H&quot; captures life on the range to a &quot;T&quot;. This fun, light read makes delightful entertainment of the &quot;old days&quot; from one a flair for storytelling. <br />Two sisters come to Rockland, Wyoming following the death of their brother to settle property and financial matters. The lawyer's letter had let them to believe the &quot;farm&quot; wasn't worth much, and that their brother had little money in the bank. However, upon their arrival, Cynthia and Abigail Hartford quickly learn just how devious the lawyer Anthony Howe can be. Acting as the front for Burnt Creek Cattle Company, and will go to any lengths to secure his share of the profit from the two unsuspecting sisters. <br />Accustomed to business and unafraid to seek the truth, the sisters insist upon a visit to the brother's property. What they find isn't a farm at all, but an enormous ranch with a vast herd of cattle, a generous meadow and water rights. As they confront rumors of a &quot;hex&quot; upon the property, and stories of shootings on the range, the sisters quickly find themselves confronting danger with spirit and a grand sense of adventure. Finding excellent help, the sisters hire Slim Bates as Forman and ranch manager, and he brings in cowboys from Montana who don't fear ghosts. <br />Fortunately, one of the men hired is actually a detective, lending the tale a rather interesting turn. As the sister's learn the secrets behind the mysterious &quot;buyer&quot; for their ranch, other ranchers decline their help. Superstition and too many past bodies keep them helping out the Hartford sisters. <br />THE GHOST OF THE BAR &quot;H&quot; has the flavor of sitting around the campfire telling ghost stories. Past paced, it quickly pulls the reader along. Lehnam proves himself to be a wonderful storyteller and I look forward to more of his work.	2001-02-03
2116522:US	49693975	R3ICRZ64PAP9YZ	0394914686	33784925	Magic at Wychwood.	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Highly recommended	Elaine fails at princessly details such as being sweet, fainting, and flirting. She also believes in magic, despite what her tutor says. So one day she ignores the voices of her tutor, her nanny and her sister, telling the sentry at the gate that she's on an educational quest for magic.<br />On a small path the finds a sign labeled BE W. As she looks closer, Elaine sees BEWARE OF THE THING. A lady nearby tells her that the it refers to The Thing That Goes Bump In The Night. Indeed, she goes off in quest of the Thing, eventually bringing it home to the castle. But the king and queen don't believe in magic, like her tutor, and demand that she return to lessons and punish by sending her to her room.<br />Through several chapters the reader is delightfully entertained as the scientist who previously lived with the Thing arrives at the castle to demand its return. Further magical adventures include spell casting, fairies, and all the people of the castle transforming into, well, something else.<br />With a deftly light hand and a healthy dose of humor, Sally Watson tells a delightful tale of magic and wonder. MAGIC AT WYCHWOOD is highly appropriate for all that believe in magic, and could be read aloud at bedtime over the course of several nights, or by readers who don't mind the absence of illustrations. I highly recommend MAGIC AT WYCHWOOD.	2001-02-03
2116528:US	49693975	R2Z8ESIUJ37601	193036413X	794777285	Tourguide to the Metaphysical World	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very highly recommended	The most challenging aspect of beginning metaphysical studies is knowing where to begin. Shelves and shelves of highly specialized information are out there for the seeker, but where does one begin without a road map? <br />&quot;Tourguide to the Metaphysical World&quot; by Susanne Tucker clearly draws a map for the novice, introducing such topics as chakras, auras, telepathy, and reincarnation, making it far easier to develop one's own spiritual path. A student of metaphysics, I feel compelled to admit that had I discovered this book several years ago, I could have saved the cost of several expensive classes and quite possibly have met my studies with far less confusion.<br />'Tourguide&quot; is unique among metaphysical books for its scope and understanding of the beginning seeker's needs. For anyone curious about the metaphysical, I heartily recommend this excellent overview. Not only does Susanne Tucker introduce the topics with common sense, but her simple style allows even the least knowledgeable of metaphysics to follow. <br />Susan also addresses the responsibilities that go with a healthy study of metaphysics. She cautions the seeker to quest for balance between the positive and negative; that is, there is no sunshine without shadow. Most importantly, she encourages study while exerting caution in the areas where many students find themselves in danger, especially concerning energy work and working on the astral plane.<br />While I encourage the reader to challenge what they find here by continuing their studies elsewhere, the reader will find that the author touches on the topics essential to a beginner's study. And &quot;Tourguide to the Metaphysical World&quot; provides a solid foundation to follow through on one's studies elsewhere.	2001-02-03
2116555:US	49693975	R1FRY3PCG306CN	0615115888	41225742	Night Sounds	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Highly recommended	NIGHT SOUNDS engages the reader from the first passionate page to the last with vitality and energy under laid by romance and murder. The sexy, sultry blues of jazz and smoke-filled rooms overlay this novel, while Beth Anderson's voice mesmerizes the reader, drawing one deeper into the dangerous world where impossibility meets improbability. <br />The passion and power of the success of appearing onstage with his jazz band before an enraptured crowd doesn't match the immediate and dangerous attraction that consumes Joe Barbarello the first moment he sees the woman he sees on the front row. In that moment he has no idea of the danger and disruption she would cause, he only was aware of his immediate and total obsession for Zoey Bauer. Entranced by the velvet heat of the mysterious Zoey, Joe never considered walking away from her on the fateful night. <br />Three days later, when he finally emerges from his passion filled time with Zoey, Joey finds himself facing possible murder charges. Indeed, Zoey is the prime suspect in the grisly murder of her boyfriend. She claims to have awakened the night after what should have been their engagement party, with him lying brutally murdered beside her. Further, not only she Zoey cling to her innocence, but she also claims she heard and saw nothing the night before. And when she pulls Joe into her life, the police are certain the two plotted together to commit the gruesome murder. <br />The intensity of Anderson's novel is extraordinary, from the imagery of Chicago's music scene to the Gold Coast lifestyle of the rich. NIGHT SOUNDS creates a hot, bluesy novel told with start self-honesty, where the characters are both realistic and flawed, AND The atmosphere rolls with cigarette smoke and the bitter wisdom gained by experience. If you love novels by F. Scott Fitzgerald, then you'll love Beth Anderson.	2001-02-03
2116568:US	49693975	R267A644FW43T1	1892520125	670968366	New Life Incognita	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Finalist in the Dream Realms Awards	Kelly Butler falls to seemingly random gunfire, finding himself outside his body watching the woman he loves grieving his death. To his dismay, however, rather than staying in Summerland, the Wiccan equivalent to heaven, Kelly is thrust not only back into life, but into a new body. Rather than the young familiar black body he previous inhabited, Kelly is now white, blond, female and married. <br />Kelly, now known as Dagny, has great difficulty reorienting to this new existence. His six-foot-two, one ninety pound male mind doesn't immediately recognize the newer, petite, female existence. As he acclimates to the change of physique, however, he must also adjust to the overwhelming emotional changes, including learning to cope with the mental and physical aspects of Dagny's marriage. Further, Kelly finds himself also coping with the extreme dangers created by Dagny's previous liaisons. <br />NEW LIFE INCOGNITA provides refreshing entertainment while exploring paths different from the mainstream, including such topics as Wicca, reincarnation, and astral projection. For those familiar with or open minded and willing to explore the unfamiliar, NEW LIFE INCOGNITA is an extraordinary, imaginative view of the paranormal complete with a fantastic love story that transcends normal definitions. With verve and finesse, Gracie McKeever proves that the suspension of disbelief results in magic. Very highly recommended.	2001-02-03
2116571:US	49693975	R15DUKMESDAZTW	1930364385	342248278	Casual Crimes	Books	5	1	1	N	N	highly recommended	CASUAL CRIMES by Kelly Norris examines in three voices the lies and the truths we tell ourselves. A powerful, complex story that reaches beyond the lover's triangle to examine the small sins we all commit against ourselves and each other each time we are dishonest, even for what we believe to be the &quot;right reasons.&quot; <br />Sara, the writer with one novel to her credit, can't bring herself to be honest about her growing feelings for Ben, or her jealousy of Kurt's success with a half-baked science-fiction best seller, while her own literary efforts remain ignored. Sara's desire for love and her vulnerability sharply contrast with her need for self-preservation. Overcoming a painful childhood and still mourning the death of her brother, she retains a poignant depth and beauty that haunts the reader when the final page is turned. <br />Kurt, impossibly beautiful and selfish, lives the perfect life. Wildly successful with his first literary effort, he can't see beyond his own needs to honestly recognize the needs of others. Instead, his charm, wealth and looks ensure a following of friends and fans. While Kurt can't see the truth in the people who surround him, he is refreshingly honest about himself, about his own needs and short-comings. Until separated from Sara by his success, Kurt only understood loneliness in theory. His love for Sara began by finding her &quot;real and complex,&quot; as opposed to the phony shallow women he had dated before. He dreams of marriage and children with her. <br />Ben, painfully honest, has sworn never to lie about anything. But those around him should be careful what they ask. Ben's engaging voice provides a stark contrast to Kurt's viewpoint: Humorous, crass, but enduring in his love for family and Sara. Ben patiently indulges his mother in persuading her to enjoy two breakfasts at the same time, all the while stolidly enduring her shortcomings; and yet, even with his mother, he sees life with startling clarity. Ben offers Sara a refreshing strength and honesty she's never known but greatly fears. <br />Three voices -- three diametric points of view moving fluidly through this novel as the story unfolds. Sara meets Kurt following the funeral of her brother. Kurt was Marcus' roommate in college. Also while in college, Kurt met Ben, creating a brief history terminated by a crude prank. Several years later, to salve his conscience, Kurt hires Ben as chauffeur and mechanic, thus introducing him to Sara. As Kurt's literary career takes him away on tours, Sara finds herself increasingly fascinated by the enigmatic Ben. <br />CASUAL CRIMES confronts the crimes we commit each day with our dishonesty --internally as well as externally. The lies we tell -- the dishonesty of thoughts and emotion when we deny true desires and true feelings -- become rampantly apparent in these individual voices, blended and synched with precision and grace. Not just a love story, or a comment on dishonesty, CASUAL CRIMES honestly examines that which makes us human: love, vulnerability, weakness and strength.	2001-02-03
2116575:US	49693975	R1GE65P5QETECZ	0373243553	513789549	Hidden In A Heartbeat (A Place Called Home) (Special Edition, 1355)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Highly recommended	Landing a contract with Fort Big Horn Historic Site Commission gives Rebecca Dahlgren an excuse to follow her only lead to her past. When she arrives at Far Hills Ranch, purportedly to pursue another contract, Rebecca is truthfully looking for answers to her heritage. Determined to land the contract at Far Hills Ranch, Rebecca believes she will find her answers there. She didn't expect to also encounter sexy Luke Chandler who immediately places her on the defensive. Nevertheless, dealing with her grandmother has prepared her for Luke's hard headedness; that is, Rebecca has definite skill for dealing with immovable objects.<br />Some people believe that Far Hills Ranch is cursed, including the owner Marti Susland who believes the hundred year old legend about the family doing someone wrong. Determined to end the curse, she attempts to bring happiness to those she loves. Part of her schemes includes giving Luke part of the ranch, although he isn't family, but Luke doesn't wish to be tied to anyone or anything. He treasures his independence, and refuses to compromise.<br />Rebecca has a chip on her shoulder. She constantly thinks of what her grandmother, the woman who raised her, would expect, valiantly trying to remain prim and proper as her grandmother would expect by following the rules. Judged for her mother's mistakes, Rebecca worries about what others think, sharply contrasting Luke's devil may care attitude. Even their first kiss comes to an abrupt halt before getting started because someone might see. Despite their different values, however, neither can ignore their mutually overwhelming attraction. <br />HIDDEN IN A HEARTBEAT has a terrific plot with lots of complications. A beguiling, sexy romance, HIDDEN IN A HEARTBEAT that tantalizes the reader. Indeed, Patricia McLinn delivers a first rate romance that will heat the cool nights and leave the reader hungering for more from her pen. Now pardon me, I missed the first two books of this series, LOST AND FOUND GROOM (#1344 August 2000) and AT THE HEART'S COMMAND (#1350 September 2000) and have some eagerly awaited reading to do!	2001-02-03
2116580:US	49693975	R2U5NG1L9UUB10	1586970143	474938677	Facade	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very highly recommended	FAÇADE by Pat Rasey is a heart stopping, adrenaline-pumping novel that you dare not start at bedtime if you intend to be up in the morning. Addictive from the first shocking page, FAÇADE will reveal the dangers that lurk beneath the most innocent appearances.<br />A murder stalks McCreary County, paying back old grudges born through many years. The first victim, George Stanton, is discovered days after his death hung with his crime nailed above his head: ADULTERY. As McCreary County's only homicide detective, KC Tanner quickly finds himself working the case with Sharlalee MacAruthur, McCreary County's victim advocate. KC has spent months trying to avoid the attractive young lady, despite his desire for her, because she also happens to be much younger and the daughter of his boss the sheriff.<br />The day before the second body's discovered, KC sees the victim storming away from the Sherrif's office and heard the soon-to-be victim demanding protection. As the tangled threads of the story become gnarled, KC complicates his life even further by briefly giving into his desire for Sharl, despite his vows to stay away from her, and despite his suspicions that his boss has some hidden agenda regarding the case. When KC finds the Sherrif's deceased wife, and Sharl's mother, ties the victims together, as well as Black Magic crimson roses, the tangled webbing begins to unravel with unexpected results, leading to a past many would like to forget, including KC himself.<br />Rasey has an extraordinary talent for creating characters with depth and complexity, while weaving a quick moving plot that lures the reader into a world of murder and intrigue. Extraordinarily, Rasey can capture the essence of a brutal murder all the while maintaining a sexy, lusty subplot with sharp quips counterbalanced by grace. While all of Rasey's novels are hits, this is the best one yet, earning a very highly recommended rating an award from WordWeaving.com.	2001-02-03
2116587:US	49693975	R12VTWYTFU2SR0	1581243146	367590267	The Hounding	Books	4	6	7	N	N	recommended	Shirlock Holmes fans will delight in this mystery by Sandra De Helen. Combining the sleuthing skills of Holmes and Watson with female protagonists, De Helen presents an original, fascinating mystery with ties to the tradition of Holmes and yet with a modern twist.<br />Shirley Combs and her assistant Dr. Mary Watson solve mysteries much as their predecessors did, using logic and facts to arrive at a conclusion. Tall, thin, androgynous Shirley has thoroughly studied the method and casebook of Shirlock Holmes, using Holmes' exploits for &quot;solutions to modern day crimes.&quot; She relies upon the Mary to chronicle their investigations. So when attack dogs murder heiress Priscilla Vandeleur Leoni, thereby enacting her worst fear, Holmes and Watson use their investigative skills to solve the case. Ironically, Cilla is a direct descendant of the Baskervilles; that is, those cursed to be killed by dogs as recorded in Holmes famous case, THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES.<br />The suspect list begins, of course, with Cilla's immediate family. Her husband Walter Leoni's ongoing financial losses and his son Tony's gambling habits make them suspect, and even her loving daughter Goldenhawk Vandeleur must be questioned. There are others, such as her lesbian lover. Pat Riley, her long time friend who runs the opera house Cilla delighted to support doesn't escape scrutiny. Likewise, the awesome character of Melody Pepper who has a gift for animals and is able to approach them in the wild and even stop animals in mid attack also bears investigation. As careful examination of the clues lead to a Holmesian deduction, the reader still may be in for surprises.<br />The solving of this case is anything but elementary as De Helen leads the reader through a maze of suspects and motives. Through the voice of Watson, de Helen presents motive, opportunities and suspects that will mislead all most the most logical Holmes fan. By presenting the detective team as females, De Helen blends a modern undercurrent to solid investigative writing. The first book of a planned series, THE HOUNDING begins an excellent detective series sure to satisfy Holmes mystery lovers.	2001-02-03
2116597:US	49693975	R2PHOPAVP2P6W5	0970102038	689819310	Soul Guardian	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Highly recommended	Lovers of the paranormal, particularly psychics and vampires, take note of Tara Manderino's SOUL GUARDIAN. An intriguing plot will certainly whet the appetite for more from this outstanding author.<br />Talk over her attempt to assist the police in locating a missing child has left Althea Brynne determined to abandon psychic work and concentrate on aiding her grandfather in his antique shop, Descendants. But an unexpected customer has devastating influence on her plans, and soon Althea finds herself thrust into the world of the undead. <br />Lucien Marqueas, Ph.D. arrived at the antique store searching for an antiquated book that held answers to his long quest. From the moment she touched him, Althea knew she had encountered someone completely beyond her experience. Usually reading auras indicated what to expect from someone she just met, but in Lucian's case she was only able to find an overwhelming sense of nothingness. Yet when Lucien left his business card, Althea was overwhelmed with a desire to help because the card embodied such an overwhelming sense of despair.<br />Lucien's quest risks being blocked by two creatures of his own kind. Each with their own hidden agenda, Adrian and Carolyn both wish to control Lucien. If his new found feelings for Althea can provide either with an advantage over Lucien, neither will hesitate to exploit that advantage with no regard for the mortal Althea. Althea certainly fails to recognize the danger she places herself in until she risks her life. Despite the danger, however, she will not give up on helping Lucien find the book he seeks. Consequently, though he has no soul of his own, Lucien finds himself in the unlikely position of guarding Altheas's soul with all that he has.<br />SOUL GUARDIAN combines paranormal events and gifts in a richly smooth narrative with a unique flavor of its own. Manderino obviously brings both knowledge and respect for the genre and her craft, thereby lending it a powerful force. I certainly recommend SOUL GUARDIAN to lovers of paranormal romance.	2001-02-03
2116614:US	49693975	R3N0HI00GA7DWG	1929611137	63980628	The Legend of Lejube Rogue	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Very highly recommended	&quot;The nights were dark and long, and when the fires had dwindled to ash and ember, the pioneers huddled close. They whispered fearsome tales of Lejube Rogue, the white Indian who ghosted through the untamed land seeking the man who had murdered his father and seduced his mother.&quot; So begins the haunting tale by Patricia L. White that has already demonstrated its own legendary success, having won both an Eppie and a Frankfurt Book Award. <br />The sound of pain and dying pulled Lejube Rogue to the boy belly-crawling along the trail, leaving a trail of blood behind him. Rogue intuits that he had begun the path leading to his own doom, yet he is drawn irresistibly onward. As he slings the boy over his shoulder, Rogue cannot ignore the prickles of warning along the back of his neck. <br />Unknown men had kidnapped the boy's sister Faith after shooting the boy and leaving him to die. Such cruelty is virtually unknown, even among outlaws. When the boy begs the man who saves his life to go after his sister, Rogue cannot refuse despite his own mission. Leaving the boy hidden, Rogue rides his horse Ghost after the evil that would prey on children. <br />All he has left is his word. But keeping the vow given to his grandfather to kill his father's murderer gave his life purpose in an otherwise empty existence. Rogue had become a legend, called the White Indian because he was trained by the old Shaman Eagle Flying when his name was still Patrick Scanlon. Now he is called &quot;Lejube Rogue, the demon who walks the mountains.&quot; Folks also say he's &quot;the demon who had no fear, no soul, and no love to stay his hand, the White Indian who killed without mercy or compassion.&quot; <br />THE LEGEND OF LEJUBE ROGUE is one of those haunting, compelling stories that I just couldn't put down. This extraordinary tale doesn't yield to ordinary plot lines and characterization. Instead, the surreal depth and poignant characterization creates a tale that promises to excite thememory in the same way all good legends do because it could have happened. Reaching beyond the genre of the western, THE LEGEND OF LEJUBE ROGUE is a classic account of human nature with a dignity seldom matched. Very highly recommend.	2001-02-03
2116631:US	49693975	R2VSZZ9N3JT98Y	1582005370	682789935	Stones Throw [3-1/2" Diskette, HTML]	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Highly recommended	&quot;No matter where you go around here you're still a stones throw from nowhere.&quot;   Cobb Slocum to Stacy Weston in STONES THROW.<br />Linda Opdyke weaves a graceful path through of love, psychological tension, and intrigue to create a memorable novel. Extraordinary!<br />A ragged piece of notebook paper with a poorly written message, and a piece of paper that bears a telephone number, provide the clues that lead Stacy Weston to Stones Throw, a town said to be a stone's throw from nowhere. In such a small town, the desperate woman has nowhere to go in such a town to ask for help finding her baby. The child was sold on the black market by his father. With her past, Stacy's only hope of success is to keep her carefully guarded secret to herself as she seeks her own answers.<br />But on the way into town, Stacy gives a lift to a man stranded with an empty gas tank. When he shows up later at her rented house, she doesn't know if she should be grateful for the protection of another person in the house, or angry at the intrusion. Yet, she can't turn away a hungry man in need of work, especially when the roofleaks, wood needs chopping, and her grotesque neighbor has his own agenda. <br />When Stacy witnesses murder, she's more convinced than ever the answer to her secrets lies with her disgusting neighbor Cobb, and his equally horrible brother Lloyd. But there's no one to trust except Rick, who seems to match her penchant for secrets and mistrust.<br />Linda Opdyke has created startling vivid characters guaranteed to hook you until the final moment. I heartily recommend STONES THROW for all lovers of thrillers.	2001-02-03
2116637:US	49693975	R1L6LTP7K5HGX1	192907221X	771830477	Contributing Factor$: How to Be a Regular Contributor to Magazines	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very highly recommended	CONTRIBUTING FACTORS$ asserts that most editors listed in magazine mastheads do not hold an office within the company. Instead, they work from their homes as freelancers. Their reliable outpouring of articles results in regular assignments and bylines. Freed of the necessity of a regular workweek complete with a tiny cubicle in the corporate world, these writers enjoy the flexibility and the comfort of their own homes. Most importantly, Contributing Factor$ provides the keys to becoming one of those successful writers through explanation, example, and experience.<br />Even if you are not freelancing now, CONTRIBUTING FACTORS$ is still for you. This short book provides the guideline to the path of becoming a contributing writer or editor, including an overview of how to get started as a stringer, move through freelancing, and eventually attain the status of a contributing writer or editor. Moreover, it points out that while the title of contributor may only be a matter of semantics, the status of contributing certainly results in making more money while still freelancing, as well insuring frequent publication.<br />CONTRIBUTING FACTORS$ includes much of the necessary, solid advice that is the substance of all good writing coaches: prepared samples, know the market, specialization. Yet it steps beyond absolute necessity. CONTRIBUTING FACTORS$ clearly demonstrates the pros and cons of becoming a contributing writer or editor, including not only the author's experience but also the experience of many other authors, making CONTRIBUTING FACTORS$ work unique among the many titles on the market.<br />With the glut of electronic magazines, both paying and nonpaying markets, many writers are finding these new markets a convenient venue to insure an audience, and to add another entry on their resume. CONTRIBUTING FACTORS$ also tackles issues of publishing on the internet and the consequences of this evolving market. While many lack the budget to pay, CONTRIBUTING FACTORS$ lists reasons electronic magazines are still extremely productive, especially showing how to find new opportunities. <br />Filled with interview material, first hand experience, and generous examples, CONTRIBUTING FACTORS$ is a must read for any writer looking for their name on a masthead and regular paychecks in the bank.	2001-02-03
2116666:US	49693975	R3T354HMPEAR95	1582001359	17268619	Eyes of a Stranger [3.5 Disk, HTML]	Books	5	0	0	N	N	highly recommended	Tracy Cooper-Posey lends her unique voice to EYES OF A STRANGER. The tone of the romance remains sensual, intriguing, and beguiling right through to the end, making this reader want to remain within its romantic aura long after the last page is turned.<br />Anistasia Kirk, Anna, struggles to save an albatross, plummeting herself into a adventure with David Morgan, who sees past the cool business woman façade she attempts to maintain, to the erotic, sensually passionate woman. When he reawakens her passion long held in check, she leaves him, without even a name, to return to her normal life.<br />The following night she and her fiancé Hugh hold their engagement party, but Anna finds herself shocked when Hugh introduces the mysterious stranger from the night before as his best friend.<br />Anna finds it more and more difficult to repress her emotions in the ensuing months as she spends more time in David's company. The stubbornness that she turned into tenacity in the business world, the passion she squelched to remain professional, and the sensuality repressed beneath business suits and sensible heels threatens both her security in her self-created world, and her relationship with her father. As David continues to coax the smoldering passions within Anna to a flame, she finds herself torn between like her mother who died mysteriously years before, and the sensible woman she had vowed to become. <br />EYES OF A STRANGER is a marvelously sensual romance with a heady rush to the senses and is written with flare and panache. When David promises Anna &quot;I am the only man with whom you can allow your nature free reign and I am the only man who understands and accepts you as you are,&quot; even the most jaded of readers can't help but be swept away.	2001-02-03
2116671:US	49693975	R28BVJMY9NDKMA	0373259077	113847404	Restless (Blaze)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Very highly recommended	Video taping her boss/best friend's wedding, Paige Cassidy couldn't help bringing the lens back to the tall, broad shouldered stud that &quot;filled out his black tuxedo jacket to mouthwatering perfection.&quot; With his sensuous lips and rugged air, she couldn't help thinking of wild night of passion and hot nights beneath star-studded skies. <br />Page caught the bridal bouquet, and optimistically believes that this time she'll find a man with commitment, marriage and children in mind. She's determined to rise above her background, with the aid of her self-improvement classes, to create a wonderful future. And while a restless man like Jack Mission couldn't possibly commit to a future with her, there are still things that a woman can be learn from such a sensual man.<br />Jack only plans to remain in town two weeks, running the ranch until his brother returns from his honeymoon. When Paige catches his eye with her prim, self-determinism, Jack knows she has no illusions about him. He makes it very clear he's the restless kind of guy, but they both share a need for relief and why not indulge themselves with one another. Never mind Paige is nothing like the women Jack usually keeps company with. And never mind he finds himself slowing down, luxuriating in their sensual experiences in a way he's never experienced before.<br />RESTLESS by Kimberly Raye 0is a credible tease for the reader, as well as for our marvelous heroine. Tempting, seductively leading the reader page by page in a spine tingling, hot blooded romp without culmination, forcing the reader to hold and experience the moment with the heroine, leaving the reader feeling deliciously decadent and ultimately satisfied. Seldom does a romance truly read like a love making experience, from the tease, the climax, to the denouncement with such passion and energy. Very highly recommend!	2001-02-03
2116710:US	49693975	RVU17OFAPG0C2	1929034458	873500778	Where The Fire Thorns Grow	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very highly recommended	One of the first novels submitted to WordWeaving for review last year, WHERE THE FIRETHORNS GROW was assigned to an assistant for review. Yet the intriguing reviews I've subsequently seen led me to make time for reading the novel. Am I ever glad I did!<br />Retrograde amnesia deprived Maggie of long term memory. She does not remember the period from the night of the shooting backward to where the emotional trauma drew the line. She doesn't recall the night someone tried to kill her, but Maggie bears a long scar above her right ear as a daily reminder. From the witness protection program, Brad Phillips arranges to take Maggie from the hospital in St. Louis. Although they've just met, Maggie feels like she's known Brad forever, and thoroughly enjoys their drive cross country to Seattle.<br />Memories of her empathetic twin keep Maggie going as she establishes her new life, living as Brad's wife. He's purchased a beautiful older home, and while he's at the office, Maggie spends her days cleaning the house and preparing it to move into. The only thing she doesn't like about the house is an enormous fire thorn vine covered with long sharp briars. She also doesn't care for the feeling that someone is watching.<br />Depression, nightmares, and side effects from the powerful drugs prescribed by the hospital keep Maggie uncertain regarding her sense of danger. But she's right; someone watches. Someone who's driven away all those who came before. Further, Maggie's troubled by her lost memory, how long she'll be with Brad, and the lack of communication with her sister. As tension mounts, and danger becomes apparent to her, Maggie can't make others see the danger that lurks -- perhaps until it's too late.<br />Marilyn Nichols Kapp creates a masterful tale of intrigue and suspense in WHERE THE FIRETHORNS GROW. With the grace and precision of a masterful storyteller, she draws the reader deep within Maggie's world. Not only does Kapp carefully spread clues through the novel, butshe also undercuts them with Maggie's symptoms from her illness, thereby leaving both her character and the reader struggling with the reality of the story. Yet Kapp's manipulations are not heavy-handed, rather, they are the deft brush strokes that lead the reader to a powerful conclusion. Very highly recommend.	2001-02-03
2116717:US	49693975	RFGIH4YS2S386	0966820940	644343568	NightWind	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very highly recommended	In the &quot;Afterward&quot; of NIGHTWIND, Charlotte Boyett-Compo tells the story of sitting in a bus station waiting for family members to arrive. She loves to watch people, and a young woman who went totally unnoticed by everyone around her captured Boyette-Compo's interest. Her skirt was a little too long, her blouse a little too loose, her hair mousy, and she seemed to shrink into her surroundings. Amid the hustle of the terminal, she was an isolated island of loneliness. A gorgeous guy approached where she sat, and as her gaze lingered on his sexy attractiveness, he didn't see her, but looked right through her as if she didn't even occupy space. Boyette-Compo vividly carries this image of loneliness, of a woman who longs for her presence to be noticed, in a vivid, haunting tale of the paranormal in NIGHTWIND.<br />At forty-six, Laureen Fowler had never been kissed, had never been on a date, had never had friends, and had never even been given a polite greeting by her neighbors. She was the target of disdain and cruelty at the bookstore where she worked and of her mother's cruelty outside of her job. In her loneliness and isolation she often cried herself to sleep, crying out to the universe her agony. She didn't know someone heard and answered. <br />Syntian Cree, the NightWind, heard Laureen's call and takes vengeance on Laureen's oppressors. Under his loving attention, she grows into her full potential, becoming a strong, forceful, beautiful woman. Syn's victims lie damaged or dead, and Laureen is vindicated. She's also in love with a force she does not understand. And as powerful as he is, Syn is oath bound to another. Refusal to answer this other's call will cast him into the pits of the Abyss. Indeed, Laureen has many powerful, dangerous secrets to learn and battles to fight if she is to find the answers and results that she seeks. <br />The first novel in the WindDemon Trilogy, NIGHTWIND Combines elements of the paranormal, including demonology, witchcraft, and the supernatural. Indeed, Boyette-Compo captures the very essence of what it is to be isolated, and the amazing transformative power of love and faith in one's self. NIGHTWIND is one of those gripping novels that shocks, horrifies, and mesmerizes the reader. The highly developed characters, the mythology that provides the foundation of the tale, and the deft plot twists and turns lead to a satisfying, though shocking, conclusion. This novel is a must read.	2001-02-03
2116719:US	49693975	R3MA0GL7W4HHAB	1586979892	666094573	Fatal Vision	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very highly recommended	FATAL VISION, by Monette Michaels, draws the reader into a whirlwind of unforgettable characters and shattering events from which there is no escape until the final line. <br />Desperate to escape her psychic abilities and her family, Morgan Smith (Tarrant) fled to New York. She successfully blended into her surrounds, sharing her personal life with only her cat Smoke, until a fleeing murderer and a chance encounter on a subway totally disrupt her life. Accustomed to cops who use her special abilities while still treating her with distrust and suspicion, Morgan forces herself to go to the authorities with what she knows. But she can't convince them in time to save an entire family from the arson. <br />Four years later, Morgan's peaceful new life in southern Indiana is shattered when the devil Darien Storm (a.k.a. Bud Hoffman), former Ranger, turns up as the false Messiah. How far must Morgan go to stop his evil before he kills again? Will his psychic abilities be enough to save him one more time? Morgan must learn to trust her heart, as well as former Navy Seal Gabriel Walsh, if she hopes to stop this madman. <br />Murder and romance, psychic abilities, and danger combine in this incredible tale that is guaranteed to keep you hooked until the last page. Monette is a powerful storyteller who weaves an inescapable tale of shock, horror, and suspense too terrifying to put down.	2001-02-03
2116723:US	49693975	RKIB0M2PVLRC5	1929077769	565307289	How to Find a Husband in Your Basement	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Highly recommended	When you are 39, recently divorced, the mother of two teenagers, and living in Mallard Crossing, population 2,400, finding a husband in a challenge. To make matters more difficult, Shelley acknowledges that one son has &quot;a suspended license from drag racing all over town and the other spends all his time at a computer. My mother is dating men she meets through the classifieds, and I could stand to lose twenty pounds. We're not exactly the Waltons.&quot; <br />Shelley's mother is also husband hunting, running a personal ad in the paper that reads: &quot;Exotic, European-born blonde who loves to drive her Cadillac and swim in her in-ground pool.&quot; Indeed, her mother has the fine art of attracting men's attention in the grocery store line down to a fine art--including securing their bank balance before sharing her phone number. Her mother's skill leaves Shelley feeling badly lacking. <br />When her best friend Caryn convinces her to go to the Hidey Hole, the only bar in town, Shelley spends more time in the restroom than she does on the dance floor. Indeed, when she finally thinks she's caught a man's eye, Shelley is mortified to learn he was staring at the TV over her head. Shelley arrives home late that night, and her mother notices. So to throw her mother off track, Shelley claims to have met someone, and heads off to join him for Sunday services. Her mother has the gumption to follow, and when Shelley foolish points to a man as her supposed date, he turns out to be a guest minister. <br />At last, her son introduces Shelley to the Internet. Through the wonders of chat, Shelley embarks on a madcap adventure guaranteed to keep the reader in stitches. She quickly learns how something so innocent can cross into disaster, making hanging out at the Hidey Hole look good. <br />Kim D. Blagg reaches new levels of hilarity IN HOW TO FIND A HUSBAND IN YOUR BASEMENT. With just enough plausibility to be frightening, this venture in self-mockery provides high entertainment. Further, the juxtaposition of her mother's husband hunt next to the narrator creates a lively read that riddled with irreverent humor. Be careful where you read this one, because you will find yourself laughing out loud! Highly recommended.	2001-02-03
2116726:US	49693975	R131E69FQ31WA6	1930756631	528375590	Making A Difference	Books	3	0	0	N	N	recommended	What would you do if you inherited millions of dollars? Sandy Guage makes those decisions in MAKING A DIFFERENCE by Sarita Carter. Wise decisions, and foolish, Carter covers the gamut of possibilities, acknowledging both the strengths and weaknesses when someone suddenly comes to wealth. <br />Waiting tables at the local bar pays more than anything else Sandy can find, but she gets really tired of men grabbing her. She has strong values and goals, dreaming of the day she can do better, and never dating any men from the bar. She's learned from watching the inevitable barroom romances and the equally inevitable breakup. Sandy had barely graduated high school, and without scholarships, there had been no money for college. If she had known what it would take to support herself, Sandy admits that the captain of the high school football team would have held far less appeal. <br />Then one evening a man appears at the bar, extending an invitation for her to meet with his employer the next day. When she arrives at the lawyer's office, Sandy is stunned to learn that she has inherited millions of dollars. Soon she dreams of wild shopping sprees, limousines, and mansions. However, the reality of her inheritance proves far more difficult than she had imagined when her misfit cousin arrives looking for handouts, and con artist crawl out of the woodwork. Questions of love and integrity take on a whole new meaning when a woman has millions. <br />MAKING A DIFFERENCE demonstrates the danger of fickle hearts intent on an easy buck. With a light spirit and tremendous insight into the motivation of her characters, Carter presents the pain and the ecstasy of life in the fast lane. A lively read, MAKING A DIFFERENCE provides both an interesting read and grounds for interesting speculation if one should suddenly inherit millions. Recommended.	2001-02-03
2116741:US	49693975	R1P56DPHDMAI0R	1929613180	590647320	The Rhythm of Revenge	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Highly recommended	When a beautiful dancer disappears, everyone becomes suspect. The reader follows along, incredulous, as Jessica spends days manicled to a bed in her parent's abandoned house, and suffers with her the fear of losing the gift of life in the dance. For without the ability to dance, Jessica has no life. The evolution of this character in contrast to the diminishing sanity of her captor keeps the reader on edge until the last page.<br />The complex characters and their relationships are well designed, especially the thin line between insanely obsessive and normalacy. Christine Spindler draws her characters with the lyrical fine line of an artist, vividly creating each in the mind of the reader. Jessica, the woman who will sacrfice anything for the dance. Roger, her wealthy husband, who wishes only for his love to be returned. David, her former lover, who obsessively continues to try to win her back, despite the pain to his wife. Susan, the pitiful wretch who can't live for herself. Eileen, the scarred beauty who makes one still believe in saints and miracles. Simon, womanizer and physical therapist, with the heart of gold. And detective Terry, a masterful blend of the looks of Alan Rickman and all the mannerisms of a gay Columbo, who solves his cases with a gift of advertising.<br />THE RYTHEM OF REVENGE presents a suspenseful tale filled with non-stop action that kept my attention throughout the novel. This is an excellent read for fans of psychological drama and mystery, and highly recommmended. I can't wait to read her next, FACES OF FEAR.	2001-02-03
2116758:US	49693975	R2GE04BG4S07EI	0821765981	279496891	Destiny's Lady	Books	5	2	2	N	N	highly recommended	DESTINY'S LADY by Susan Grace reaches beyond the typical historical romance by defying the conventions of the time; that is, women should be beautiful and mindless. Instead, Susan creates a powerful heroine certain to delight the most feminist heart, yet enchant the worst cynic.<br />Catherine and Victoria are separated during infancy, growing up in vastly different worlds. Known as Catherine O' Banyon to her adoptive family, Catherine was never told that she was a foundling. Catherine grows up to become &quot;Lady Cat,&quot; captaining a ship that smuggles of arms in defense of Ireland from the tyranny of William Pitt and King George. Meanwhile, her twin Victoria becomes a businesswoman capable of coping with most stolid board, as well as the fashions and snobbery of London' most elite circles.<br />When Miles Grayson captures `Lady Cat', he finds the perfect image of his missing fiancée, Victoria Carlisle. Everyone believes that Victoria is dead, and Miles is determined to deceive her murderer and bring him to justice. Therefore, he convinces Catherine to take Victoria's place. What he didn't count on was falling in love. <br />This sweeping historical romance encompasses adventure, heartbreak, mystery, two sensual love stories, and a fascinating psychic bond shared by the twins. Because so much groundwork must be laid for such a complex tale, readers may find the beginning a bit slow going. But when Catherine and Miles meet, the tempo quickly heats up, sweeping the reader away on a tide of passion and sensuality. The complex plot and deepening relationships between the characters rewards the reader with a satisfying romantic tale certain to keep the blood boiling. I heartily recommend DESTINY'S LADY to lovers of historical romance.	2001-02-03
2116762:US	49693975	R37BPDGISWI5F5	1929034644	674872925	In the Heart of the Wind	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very highly recommended	Evil has a new face in the remarkable hands of Charlotte Boyett-Compo. IN THE HEART OF THE WIND is a heart rending psychological drama revealing that cruelty and injustice have no limits in the quest for power--sometimes even within families.<br />Gabe and Annie James have a wonderful, loving life together. Married for two years, Annie knows little of Gabe's past, and is sometimes surprised at the jobs he chooses, which don't seem to live up to the expectations set by a college degree. Although Gabe's secretive about his past, Annie hasn't asked a lot of questions; that is, until now. While doing the laundry, Annie finds a news clipping about the death of a policeman in Florida. Later, she finds a trunk filled with such clippings and such paraphernalia as a policeman would own.<br />Iowa winters can be brutal, especially for a southern boy. Despite the frigid temperatures and piles of snow, Gabe was happy living with Annie. But there were times when his silence, preoccupation and nightmares frightened Annie. Nevertheless, the whole town loved Gabe, so when he was suddenly kidnapped from his home, an illegal act witnessed by neighbors, the town rallied to his rescue. Even when they learn of Gabe's past and his mobster family, the townsfolk never gave up their relentless pursuit to find Gabe.<br />Gabe James is really James Gabriel Tremayne, son of mobster Liam Tremayne, a man whose quest for power leads to kidnapping and torturing his own son. Gabe was the only child of four that didn't conform to Liam's expectations. Unwanted since his conception, the young Gabe had only wanted his father's time and affection. What he got was inconceivable abuse. And now the abuse has committed him to a mental institution, ordered shock therapy and plastic surgery, and promised to never set him free. Further, Liam promises harm to Annie if Gabe attempts escape.<br />IN THE HEART OF THE WIND provides psychological drama guaranteed to satisfy the appetite of the most demanding thriller fan. Previous fans of Ms. Boyette-Compo will relish this familiar, exciting voice while new fans will quickly find themselves addicted. Fast paced plotting, excellent characterization and a powerful voice combine in this heart rendering tale of power gone mad to reveal the dangers IN THE HEART OF THE WIND.	2001-02-03
2116766:US	49693975	R10RWBIZGSLAJ4	073881833X	306687832	The Leper Colony	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Very highly recommended	THE LEPER COLONY by Khanh Ha begins with a unique juxtaposition of a Vietnamese pedicab in the backyard of an American home, and juxtaposition serves as structure for the entire novel. Vietnam was a juxtaposition of those of the North and those of the South. Vietnam and America also serve as a juxtaposition, as do the main characters, Hoàng Vinh and his nephew Phong who are as divided the country they both love. Yet throughout the novel runs a unity of theme and purpose that draws the reader into its remarkable depths.<br />Robert Fitch, the director of the Bureau of Refugee Programs at the State Department, has two deputy assistant secretaries: Hoàng Vinh -- Phong's uncle -- and Gene Jensen, Fitch's right-hand man. With Fitch about to retire, both Vinh and Jensen want the position of director, and both will do anything to get what they want. But Fitch tries to block Vinh's nomination by trying to lobby for Jensen on the Hill. Then the congressional committee attacks Vinh. Finally, a vociferous Vietnamese small-time publisher threatens to expose Vinh's identity in his upcoming newsletter. But the publisher is found murdered.<br />Phong finds himself trapped between the man who threatens to unmask his uncle as communist, and his loyalty to family. His uncle brought him into the United States and saved his father's life. Certainly his uncle has connections to the State Department, but Phong doubts it would have carried any clout with the new communist government. Phong thought he knew his uncle's past, but does he really?<br />Woven amidst the political struggle and murder is also a philosophical thread, acknowledging that few in the State Department could speak Vietnamese, or knew anything about Vietnamese culture. Those leading Americans into war &quot;thought they didn't need that kind of intelligence to fight the communists in such a tiny place. The Dean Rusks, the Robert McNamaras.&quot; Likewise, Vietnamese refugees are faced with a similar dilemma, not knowing anything about American history and culture -- &quot;the two prerequisites for any foreigner to live here.&quot; Americans approached the war with a fast food mentality, expecting to win in six months. They didn't understand that they needed patience; patience to understand the people, their culture, their history, their beliefs, their roots. <br />Ha writes a with crispness, yet his prose flows, for example, capturing the impossibility of comprehending a life without war in his poetic description: &quot;In this country, you don't see the gunships, the Skyraiders roaring every time you look up the sky. At night you don't hear the cannon booming in the distance, an AK-47 crackling down the street. The night flows into morning without curfew.&quot; Further, through Jensen and Vinh's battle for political position, Ha creates the tapestry of war including the dark threads of tragedy and the brilliant threads of love. The tragedy and the contradiction of the Vietnam war are captured in heart rendering terms of loss, grief and destruction in this extraordinary novel. As a student of English literature, I studied Vietnam war literature extensively, even choosing it for the topic of my thesis. With the many books I have read, this is the most multifaceted, brilliantly intense Vietnam war book I have read to date. I very highly recommend it.	2001-02-03
2116793:US	49693975	R18791XUICH10M	0373259093	321719877	Ms. Taken (The Personal Touch!)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very highly recommended	Tidy, precise, inhibited Jane Dobson lived very deliberately, from her seven cashew lunch to her skirts that rode up her thigh so much and no more. While she held the position of ad secretary for Charles Warren, Jane is actually a dreamer, who lives most of her life lost in fantasy. She carefully disguises her inner sensuality until one day a two pound plaster Cupid falls on her head. <br />In the emergency room, Jane struggles to remember her identity. Rather that her own, she latches onto the first name that comes to mind; that is, Jane Dobson claims to be Holly Baskin. The name comes from a personal ad her boss asked her to place in a magazine. Charles believes it's time to marry and assure an heir to the family business. He doesn't quite recall why he and Holly broke up, but he does recall liking her no nonsense approach to life. So when Jane waltzes into his board room, calling herself Holly and blithely announcing their engagement to everyone present, amidst some very heated kissing, Charles is stunned. But no more stunned than by his best friend's advice to go along with this new &quot;Holly&quot; for a while. The question remains as to whether these two lost souls can heal -- together. <br />When one woman's fantasy romance becomes an unlikely reality, Jo Leigh's MS. TAKEN provides one of the most improbably, highly delightful romances I have ever read. Leigh combines the outrageous with the humorous to create a wonderfully light heart romance filled with possibilities. Indeed, MS. TAKEN has brilliant characters that come to life in this splendid, sexy romance. I found myself completely swept away, sneaking by book in my pocket during breaks at work because I had to know what happens next. Imagine my very sober office mates as I burst out in uninhibited laughter! Very highly recommended.	2001-02-03
2116798:US	49693975	R2W7ONGWX22HWI	0505523973	849573170	The Cat's Fancy (Time of Your Life Series)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	I'm now a Julie Kenner fan!	Old Tom, a bit of magic, and true love transform Maggie the cat into Maggie the siren. Now, if only she can figure out how to persuade Nick Goodman that the perfectly manicured Angela with the high powered daddy is completely wrong for him, and Maggie the cat is perfectly right. <br />Nick knows that falling for this green-eyed, mysterious beauty that has turned up on his doorstep nude and silent would be dangerous to his personal life, his career, and his mental health. He has everything, already. A high powered career. Money. A beautiful woman. He should be happy. So why doesn't he throw the mystery woman out instead of giving her free reign of his home? Angela certainly won't understand why he has a raven-haired beauty ensconced in his home--but only by night. During the day, Maggie is still a cat. Further, like a humorous twist on the Cinderella fairy tale, Maggie only has until All Hallow's Eve to gain Nick's love or become a cat again forever.<br />Lying on Nick's lap, being stroked and petted didn't prepare Maggie for the torrent of emotion and physical stimulation human for would provide. Of course, pouncing on Nick as soon as she appeared on his doorstep might have been a bit disconcerting. She'd shown up on the doorstep, cat confident that he'd fall head over heals in love as soon as saw her. After all, as a cat she'd always gotten what she wanted. So she'll make him love her once Angela's out of the way, Nick will see reason, and they'll live happily-ever-after. Or will they?<br />With a marvelous leap of imagination, Julie Kenner's THE CAT'S FANCY creates a magical world of dreams and love. With the grace of feline, the heart of a lion, and the passion of panther, the tale lures and beguiles the reader with its rich imagination and humor. I confess this romance is a fun read, and I found myself giggling and crossing my fingers for Maggie the cat from the first page. THE CAT'S FANCY is definitely the cat's meow.	2001-02-03
2116814:US	49693975	RCHO2100WKSLM	0373243529	677049050	Marrying a Delacourt (And Baby Makes Three: The Delacourts of Texas / Silhouette Special Edition, No. 1352)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Highly recommended	Readers of the October release, MARRYING A DELACOURT, were tantalized by allusions to the youngest Delacourt brother Tray. While Tray refused to reveal the cause of his preoccupation, several family members commented upon his withdrawal from the family and the pain he attempted to conceal. In THE DELACOURT SCANDAL, Sherryl Woods reveals both the causes of Tray's pain and the possible solutions to regaining happiness.<br />Determined to undercover Delacourt secrets in retribution for the damage done to her family, Maddie Kent establishes a relationship with the dynasty's youngest son Tray. Convincing Griffin Carpenter to hire her to unearth Delacourt secrets be published in the Dallas-based tabloid, Hard Truths. Never mind that she had attended one of the nations' best journalism schools, meaning that she had taken her fair share of courses in media ethics and responsibility. All she wanted was one this one expose, even if meant she'd never work as a reporter again. Then she met Tray Delacourt.<br />Tray Delacourt doesn't fit the Delacourt mold, preferring fieldwork to the home office and desk job. No matter how loving his family has been, Tray's always felt a bit on the outside, and persued his own direction. The most tight lipped of the Delacourts, Tray displayed a lot of flash and dazzle to the world while keeping his inner self private. Maddie certainly wasn't prepared to find herself attracted to Tray, and finds her resolve to bring the Delacourt family to their knees wavering. <br />Maddie's innocence-sin attraction proves irresistible to Tray. Her sweet face and kissable mouth combined with her shapely legs are impossible to ignore. For the first time since he lost the woman and child he loved, Tray feels stirrings of attraction for the saucy, sassy Maddie, even when he suspects that she's been less than honest.<br />THE DELACOURT SCANDAL is a sparkling, sexy romance with a hearty blend of secrets and sensuality. The author's light tone and delightful spunky energy will captivate lovers of romance. While freshness and originality are difficult qualities to accomplish in genre romance, Woods pulls it off with flair! I highly recommend THE DELACOURT SCANDAL.	2001-02-03
2116815:US	49693975	R1FG1FEIY45EM9	1928670091	717428912	King of the Romans	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Highly recommended	John Gorman's first novel, KING OF THE ROMANS, presents an historically grounded and powerfully insightful view of the last Roman ruler in the West. The novel easily divides into two sections, the first historically accurate, and the second filled in with Gorman's imagination. <br />In the first section, out of respect for his fairness, the surrounding tribal people dub Lucius Publius Syagrius as &quot;King of the Romans&quot;. The procurator of North Gaul, Lucius attempts to protect his people from Clovis and the invading Franks, rather than converting to the invader's brand of Christianity. Moments of this section shimmer with strength and power, such as when Lucius' wife dies, but the necessity to stick with historical accuracy seems to have inhibited the author's voice a bit in other areas. However, the second half is not touched by such inhibition.<br />Following the loss to Clovis, Lucius would prefer to choose death to life. But a profound vision occurs, in which Hecate tells him he must live to fulfill her prophecies. Lucius becomes a mercenary, a man without roots or loyalties, sharply contrasting his dedication to Rome in the first half of the novel. In addition, the second half of the novel introduces new characters, including the priestess of the goddess Hecate, the powerful and beautiful Cassandra. It is these secondary characters that truly touch the reader's heart and imagination, bringing the novel to life.<br />In addition, through the second half of the novel, Lucius maintains his strict moral fiber. But Gorman does not allow that strength to present the reader with a one-dimensional character. Rather, we see his weaknesses as well, as when Cassandra reveals that he won't know how much he loves her until it's too late.<br />THE KING OF THE ROMANS truly captures the flavor of the ancient beliefs and those who honored the old gods. One of the most powerful scenes in the novel is when Cassandra leaves the temple for the last time, bidding farewell tothe ancient religion. The power and the beauty of this character brought tears to my eyes. <br />Recently, many authors have written about pagan religions, but few have captured the heart of this belief system with the majesty and beauty that Gorman exhibits. I recommend THE KING OF THE ROMANS, particularly the second half, and look forward to more of the author's work as he continues to unleash his imagination.	2001-02-03
2116822:US	49693975	R2OD5R5YAWO8SO	1930756704	588604942	The Four O'Clock Mystery	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Highly recommended	Holly inherites a mysterious key from her Aunt Matilda, along with a letter with clues. Her family plans to move cross country into Aunt Matilda's house, and the mystery makes the move much easier for Holly. Not only does she want to learn what the key leads to, Holly also wants to learn more about her aunt. <br />The house hadn't been lived in for two years. When Holly and her family arrive, the house hides behind a jungle of growth. The neighbor impresses Holly as being rather creepy with a woman who talks to herself, a man who spies from a white car, a cat who won't make friends, and a lack of kids. <br />As Holly explores her new home, she learns more about her aunt. She even discovers an old Maytag ringer washing machine in the basement and another clue. Clues lead Holly not only to her legacy, but a wonderful understanding of her aunt. <br />THE FOUR O'CLOCK MYSTERY by Louise Ulmer provides an interesting mystery for middle grade readers. Appropriate for both boys and girls, Holly's mystery will keep the pages turning. Fans of THE FOUR O'CLOCK MYSTERY will also enjoy THE GLOBSTER OF GLASSY BEACH. Highly recommended.	2001-02-03
2116829:US	49693975	R2RFPZSPAJ3QZZ	0962455520	268514620	Lunar Encounter	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Recommended for the eclectic reader	H.W.G. Allen, in LUNAR ENCOUNTER, blends science fiction, cosmology and philosophy to both entertain and to provoke thought in his reader. Allen's revolutionary cosmological concepts blend with science fiction in a unique and original literary endeavor. <br />Set late in the 21st Century, LUNAR ENCOUNTER focuses upon a mysterious disappearance of two lunar geologists while on a routine exploration of the moon. The resulting saga threatens to undermine many of mankind's cherished beliefs and change the very course of Earth society. The discovery of an alien outpost on the Moon introduces the &quot;New Cosmology&quot; of Harold W. Allen. The complex combination of physics, astronomy, sociology, religious studies and economics blends into a science fiction novel, that is at once daring and philosophically intense. As aliens, known as Matusians, expound upon their philosophies, the resulting panic by those whose wealth and power are threatened is easy to conceive, thereby making the novel quite plausible. <br />The enlightened Matusians have been secretly observing how well human civilization handles the transition to the Atomic Age. The battle over the human race is reduced to survival of the old ways, which will destroy earth, or embracing the new as presented by the Matusians. As with most philosophical novels, LUNAR ENCOUNTER at times reads like a philosophical treatise rather than an entertaining novel. The purpose of the dialogue seems to be to develop ideas rather than reveal character. Indeed, characters are all introduced by their first and last names, with their height and weight occasionally included. <br />Unfortunately, the Matusian principles seem almost as aggressive as the humans who are determined to remain in control of their money and power. For example, the Matusian's method of eliminating obnoxious and dangerous political leaders on Earth is to use &quot;batteries of powerful stun beam projectors and gas launchers, which can temporarily paralyze thepopulation of entire cities, thus facilitating the prompt removal from office of those deemed to be a threat to world peace.&quot; <br />While the dialogue is at times stilted, thereby impeding the flow of the narrative, the novel sufficiently engaging to overlook its flaws. The fast-paced and socially concerned narrative keeps the story flowing, all the while challenging the reader's prejudices, beliefs and mores. Intended to inspire thought into the nature and purpose of the universe, LUNAR ENCOUTNER will have an universal appeal to a wide audience of readers. Recommended.	2001-02-03
2116844:US	49693975	R1KAMZZ8XYP0KA	1892520222	172354847	The Promise of Kierna 'Rhoan	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Highly recommended	A dangerous triangle of mistrust, deception and death lurks. Accused of being a terrorist, harboring Shifters and breaking the law, Kira dedicates her life to saving Shifters, that is, sentient beings that can shape shift. Her ex-husband, Eain Ennoren intends to prosecute her for treason and conspiracy to commit treason against the planetary government, if he doesn't kill her first. Ennoren would go to great lengths to put Kira under his control again, or break her.<br />David's loyalties are obviously divided because, he works for Ennoren, but when Kira must take him with her in order to save his life, he quickly learns more than he bargained for. Indeed, she has to hold David until there's no longer a chance he can lead Ennoren to them. Kira compromises both her people and her mission to bring David there rather than wiping his memory and tossing him in the streets because she will not risk the damage to his mind.<br />A leader not by choice but by necessity, Kira believes she will start taking time for her own feelings when she has the time. Helpless and impatient, she knows she has too much to do and all of it a race against time against Ennoren. She is determined to save the lives of at least some of the Shifters. But she feels guilty that she can't be everything, do everything for everyone.<br />It would have been easier if David could believe that Kira was ruthless or heartless. Instead, he realizes that she has honor. That realization soon sweeps into a passionate love that will span planets.<br />Three powerful characters, Shifters capable of communicating via telepathy, dangerous bars, star travel, this novel has it all. In addition to the extraordinary plot and vivid characterization, however, this is also a love story on several different levels. THE PROMISE OF KIERNA'RHOAN is the story of love gone wrong-and right, between humans and between species. The novel is also a delicate lesson in trust and acceptance. I highly recommend THE PROMISE OF KIERNA'RHOAN.'RHOAN.	2001-02-03
2116846:US	49693975	R1J0K29ZCDVQO2	0671025341	899138358	A Rage To Kill and Other True Cases: Anne Rule's Crime Files, Vol. 6	Books	4	6	6	N	N	highly recommended	In A RAGE TO KILL, former policewoman Ann Rule empties her files of short cases she just can't forget. Some of the stories are from her early years of writing, before serial killers like Ted Bundy made headlines -- before they made the horrific not only believable but also common place. <br />Other stories are more recent. Some of the killers were brilliant; others captured because of their stupidity. One death isn't solved. Yet each of the stories has one element in common -- a rage to kill. <br />Each of the stories is haunting in a different way. Whether it's a tale of a killer kidnapping beautiful young women from shopping malls, or of the young woman who saw death coming at the hands of the father of her children and was powerless to prevent her own murder, each story is written with chilling detail. All of the stories illustrates the ability of irrational violence to strike without warning, taking a life in moments. <br />When I read other reviews of this collection, I encountered many reviewers expressing disappointment based on other work they had read by this same author. <br />Perhaps because I haven't read many true crime novels, and my judgement system is a little different, or perhaps because I do enjoy Ann's writing style and inquisitive nature -- clearly demonstrated even with these shorter tales -- I thoroughly enjoyed A RAGE TO KILL. I heartily recommend it to all fans of true crime.	2001-02-03
2116859:US	49693975	R3GEDTF3M5GL1E	0821766422	890060506	Night Winds	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Very highly recommended	In only five days the lives of Shae Rowan and Phillip Payton will be forever changed. During those short, tumultuous days, they will confront their past, who they believe themselves to be, and determine their futures; that is, if they live long enough. For the greatest forces of nature have their own will in lives destined to be changed forever.<br />Her mother Glennis disappeared when Shae was only fifteen. Her father and aunt claimed Glennis had forsaken her family for another man, running off with only the precious jewelry created by her husband. Shae never understood how her mother could leave, without even a goodbye, when she had kept the secret of her mother's infidelities as promised. Perhaps, Shae believed, she was to blame for her mother's departure. To save Shae from making her mother's mistakes, her father and aunt kept very close tabs on her, closely controlling her life. But Shae's rebellious and spirited nature was not to be quashed. <br />While seeking refuge from her own engagement party, Shae meets the mysterious Phillip Payton on the beach. There, in the sand and the surf, they both seek answers to questions not yet confronted. Phillip had given up his dream of being a doctor at his father's deathbed to head the family business. A man of honor, he vows to keep his word no matter the cost. Even when subsequent business decisions lead to threats on his life, Phillip maintains his decision. But his chance encounter with Shae also captures his heart and his imagination, as he can't help being drawn to the beautiful young woman. <br />Together Shae and Phillip must find the answers to her past as well as his future. To be happy, Phillip must learn when a man of honor keeps his word, and when that keeping of the word is a mistake. Life is, indeed, a delicate balance between following one's heart and still fulfilling one's responsibility. <br />Gwyneth Atlee's tale will sweep the reader away on a tidal wave of intrigue, romance, and mystery. Be careful when you begin NIGHT WINDS, because it's impossible to put down and will keep you up well past bedtime. Shae's spirit and strength are remarkable, as are the growth and profound changes in Phillip. Even the secondary characters are remarkably well developed, created with the brushstroke of a master and living in the imagination long after finishing the book. These strengths, combined with an intriguing plot, lead me to very highly recommend NIGHT WINDS.	2001-02-03
2116866:US	49693975	R2U1BM05OL1Y8L	1584950668	374922499	Formosa Straits	Books	4	0	1	N	N	recommended	While the world watches from the comfort of their living rooms, Premier Xiao-ying Tien, &quot;The Smiling Man&quot;, masterminds an invasion of Taiwan. Thousands of planes attack Taiwan, while millions of troops take the beaches after crossing Formosa Straights. Even as the valiant efforts of the Taiwanese spirit goes unnoticed by the world, the people of Taiwan struggle all the harder. FORMOSA STRAIGHTS is a terrifying look at a possible future, all the more startling for its real-life possibility. <br />Taiwanese President Chiu Wong Chen and General Kai valiantly lead their people to oppose in the encroaching communists. But they are crippled by a mixture of modern and obsolete weapons and the large numbers of invaders as they struggle to save the lives of a billion and a half people. <br />Between snatches of the political powers which govern both sides of the war, the reader also is privy to the viewpoints of others: The American reporter, Mike Shannon, finds himself swept away by the extraordinary people of Taiwan. American pilots lend their skills to the &quot;Flying Tigers,&quot; providing invaluable aid in the air. Veteran Marshal Zhou's wish to save a family member leads to incredible deception. Party Chairman Lap Wo Lam, the Marxist fanatic, greatly underestimates China's new capitalists. Zheng Yi Kwan and his grandfather lead their Party Militia in a deadly game they underestimates and cannot control. <br />As the islands of Quemoy and Matsu fall into the hands of the Communists, the bloody carnage reflects the destruction of the land. Naval and air battles rage around the embattled islands, in the command centers and meeting rooms where the fate of nations are determined, on battlefields where thousands die for the dreams of their nations. <br />Perhaps my lack of knowledge of weaponry and military tactical understanding interfered with my enjoyment of FORMOSA STRAIGHTS. But the weakness that truly prevented me from becoming fully involved in the narrative was the fact that the novel is so plot bound. Certainly the genre is not to blame as I have read quite a lot of &quot;war lit&quot; that I have thoroughly enjoyed even without an understanding of weaponry, because of the human element. With FORMOSA STRAIGHTS, however, the flashes of characterization piqued my interested but didn't last long enough, or delve deep enough, to fulfill the promise. <br />Nevertheless, T.J. McFadden certainly brings the skill and precision of a master craftsman who knows war and the battles contained therein, both on the battlefield and in the command center. He starkly brings to life the hell of the destruction of a people in a world where nobody can be bothered to notice. Moving deftly between common soldiers and world powers, Americans and Taiwanese, living and dying, FORMOSA STRAIGHTS presents a profound vision of the deadly cost of ignoring the destruction of a small country.	2001-02-03
2116872:US	49693975	R2DTQCPFKCP4MC	0373243561	158910970	Stranger In A Small Town (Special Edition, 1356)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Highly recommended	Several miles from the small town of Flatville, Indiana lies acreage and a house built almost a hundred years ago that has passed through the generations down to Alison O'Hara. That Clint Strong walked on foot up to that ancient house was startling enough. That he arrived just as Alison posted her hand lettered Room for Rent sign was even more startling.<br />Clint left his broken down truck somewhere down the road hoping to find a tow truck and a place to spend the night. Somehow a scrawny dog had attached itself to Clint between the truck and Alison's home. As she spoke to him, Alison couldn't help staring at the ugly red scars that crisscrossed the backs of Clint's hands, hinting at a painful past.<br />There aren't many jobs in Flatville, Indiana. In fact, with Millie's restaurant closed down for remodeling, there aren't any jobs at all. Alison had resigned herself to selling the antique furniture in her house after her meager savings account ran out. So when the mysterious boarder appears with the scrawny dog, Alison is eager to make them both welcome. She needed the rent money for food and necessities, not to mention a bank note that, in a month, will cost her the house and land. Further, though she doesn't know it yet, Alison will need Clint for more than his rent money.<br />Clint doesn't want to be needed. He views himself as useless and has the scars to prove it. Even as the overwhelming attraction pulls him to Alison and her beautiful five year old daughter, Clint is determined to hold himself aloof, distancing himself from that which he has tragically lost.<br />STRANGER IN A SMALL TOWN by Ann Roth will certainly delight romance lovers. This first novel is excellent, providing dramatic flair that is understated, well-designed, and satisfying. Set in the southern Indiana hills resplendent with the steamy heat, the rich characterization will leave readers eager for more from this author's talented pen. Ann Roth possesses a romantic finesse that bears watching.	2001-02-03
2116904:US	49693975	R3V0OYDPK56INR	1930364024	33673879	The Phoenix Quilt	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very highly recommended	Once again, Aliske Webb has used the quilting metaphor to record life experiences in THE FRAGILE THREAD. Echoing traditional heroic journeys of Greek legend, Aliske acknowledges the journey that all women share in their individual threads that weave life's tapestry. <br />While drawing on lessons and metaphors familiar to all lovers of literature, however, Aliske gives THE PHOENIX QUILT a fresh philosophical twist guaranteed to provoke thought and refresh one's spirit at the same time. <br />The center of creativity and the heart of the novel is Grandma's Quilt Shop, recently opened by Aggie who, in her own questto begin life anew, has located in the small town of Clareville, in the middle of the west row around the town square. Excited by her new prospects, Aggie begins a quilt designed to record her new life. Each square represents the important events, including family, change, fear and success. The sampler reflects the patterns common to the journey all women share; yet the sharp uniqueness of fabric emphasizes Aggie's unique impressions.<br />Having found a spiritual home in her new quilt shop, Aggie is stunned to learn of the town's plans to replace the Town Square with a parking lot and a strip mall. The mayor's son, &quot;Little Al Jr,&quot; spearheads the development project, and he has already purchased the block where Aggie lives over her quilt shop. Soon Aggie finds herself becoming a part of the women's business community fighting to preserve the heritage of the city's park and historical buildings.<br />Like the heroes of Greek legend, Aggie finds each of her challenges is accompanied by encouragement from unexpected places -- including the spirit of her deceased grandmother, the mysterious and boisterous Jo, and the sexy fireman with a love of fabric.<br />Surrounded by her daughters and the women of the community, Aggie records her challenges and successes within the sampler quilt, preserving the lessons of love and strength.<br />For those who foundthemselves enraptured by THE PHOENIX QUILT, as well as new fans of Aliske Webb, this marvelous novel will provide a refreshing view of life and the spiritual journey we all share. I thoroughly enjoyed the novel, and eagerly look forward to journeying into more of Aliske's work.	2001-02-03
2116907:US	49693975	R3BZH5WZSEKT4I	1929613954	962389356	Electronic Publishing : The Definitive Guide	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Very highly recommended	Karen S. Wiesner succulently captures all the &quot;need to know information&quot; for authors interested in epublishing in ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING: The Definitive Guide. Written as a friendly, informative source for novice and experienced authors, this resource will prove itself to be invaluable. <br />The first section consists of the ins-and-outs of electronic publishing. With her characteristic frank style, Wiesner compares epublishing several years ago to today, including changing reader opinion, reviewers, and contests. Perhaps the most insightful material is her own personal experience when Wiesner compares paper versus electronic acceptance. Formats, copyrights and distribution are also discussed. Furthermore, as a staunch proponent for ebook readers, I was delighted to discover Mary Z. Wolf's insight regarding technology, which also proves most illuminating. <br />The second section consists of a comprehensive list of epublishers and publishing groups. The following topics are addressed: web site, submission guidelines, royalties, advances, contract terms, submission address, formats, and forms. In addition, the interviews provide even more detailed information about each publisher. A wide variety of opinions, philosophies, and experiences reveal the diversity of these publishers thereby helping the author to target their submissions.<br />The third section consists of practical advice for authors considering epublishing. Inspiration and encouragement blend with web pages and live chats. Additionally, advise regarding contest and promotion will also encourage the author in this new direction. Filled with Web sites, lists of ideas and more, this section alone makes the purchase of the book worthwhile.<br />As a lover of interactive text, I heartily recommend readers to use this book with access to the Web. The resources allow the reader to explore independently while leading to excellent publishers, reviewers and other necessary resources. As the Senior Editorfor WordWeaving, the most frequently asked questions that I am asked are certainly answered here. Very highly recommended!	2001-02-03
2116934:US	49693975	R3H7U5NTJ1TV78	0595094368	805893353	Listen to the Shadows	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Very highly recommended	Written with the finesse and grace of a master, Joan Hall Hovey's first novel, LISTEN To THE SHADOWS, is an engrossing tale of fear and danger certain to keep the reader awake, turning pages long after bed time, and listening carefully to everything around them.<br />A man without a conscious stalks artist Katie Summers. She hasn't seen him, but she senses his presence. A tingling on the back of the neck, a flicker out of the corner of the eye, and an instinctual awareness of danger are her only warnings. <br />Stood up by her date late one night, Katie leaves the restaurant alone to drive through a storm to her remote country home. She doesn't notice the headlights following her. But when she does glance in the rearview mirror, the sight of a dead man's sightless blue eyes staring back at her results in a nearly fatal accident. She doesn't know, as she lies unconscious and bleeding, with her car crushed by a telephone pole, that her stalker lurks close by, watching.<br />After four days in a coma, Katie awakens in the hospital. There she meets Dr Johnathan Shea, a sexy, vibrant, man carrying a heavy load of guilt over the loss of a young patient. A romantic interest develops, spiced by fierce attraction, sexy intrigue and danger. But the question remains as to whether he will be enough to protect Katie from a madman.<br />Joan is a powerful new voice in the world of suspense and mystery. Her tight plot, well-developed characters and originality will satisfy the reader's craving for tension and danger. I certainly look forward to more novels by the promising author with great eagerness.	2001-02-03
2116936:US	49693975	R45LABBY9MBUN	1930364369	924495039	Mama Tried to Raise a Lady	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very highly recommended	Childhood adventure and misadventure take on a humorous tone not soon to be forgotten in MAMA STORIES by RD Larson. Put your feet up and stay awhile in the mirth of life in the Pacific Northwest where billy-goats and silk slips become the substance of memorable entertainment.<br />Mama is a transplanted southern lady, determined to implant her genteel manners in her daughter. Although they live on a working farm, Mama dislikes the animals, and loves preparing fancy cakes on &quot;Pea Knuckle&quot; day and wearing fancy silk slips. But RD (Rose, Baby Rose) Darlington Berry sees herself not as a hothouse flower, but as a warrior woman, ready to take on the world. Unafraid of playing sick to stay home, throwing herself into the think of a fight between cousins, or climbing to the top of the tallest tree, RD keeps her Mama's hands full.<br />The characterization of each of each person within the book is incredible. The love between her parents strikes the young RD as ridiculous, as she gripes about them kissing more than in the movies. <br />RD's best friend, and their plan to prevent a horrendous fairy birthday party guaranteed to mortify any forth grader will have you in stitches. Indeed, RD's &quot;noodle&quot; brother Boy and her manipulations to avoid cleaning the hen house is guaranteed a good laugh.<br />Written as series of short stories, Larson's storytelling will have both children and adults laughing till the end, from the &quot;string divorce&quot; to the child RD's amazing transformation from wise man to elf in a school play. RD's artistic, tumultuous nature, complete with a strong rebellious streak, kept this reviewer chuckling. Thank you, Ms Larson.	2001-02-03
2116954:US	49693975	R3JS5GQBLC266U	0373259158	563216117	Simply Sensual (The Simply Series, Book 3)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Highly recommended	Ben Callahan readily accepted the offer from Emma Montgomery. As a private investigator, he is more accustomed to clients who tried to weasel their way around expenses and final pay, rather than Emma's generous offer.  He not only needs to cover his own bills, but also the cost of the independent living community where he has placed his mother. Emma's job is also intriguing. Emma believes her granddaughter is &quot;in the process of finding herself and she needs a keeper.&quot;<br />The first moment Ben sees the picture of Emma's granddaughter, he's hooked. Just looking at Grace Montgomery's picture is enough to rev up his libido. So Ben travels to New York City, taking the apartment across the hall from Grace. When he sees Grace in person, his reaction is equally instant and intensive. <br />The sight of Ben in her hall sends Grace's adrenaline pumping. She has escaped to New York to experience life and discover her self-identity. A treat like Ben is just one of the perks of living away from home, even if she mostly watches from a distance. Ben adds spark and zing simply with his presence. Grace has had enough of men who wine and dine her for her connections and family money. She believes Ben to be different. He seems to let her know up front just who he is and what he wants. Little does Grace suspect Ben's connection to her grandmother.<br />Carly Phillips presents a highly seductive novel in SIMPLY SENSUAL. Her heroine lends the novel a marvelous sparkle with her spirit and spunk. Phillips also lends comic relief with Emma Montgomery, who is charming, refreshing, and addictive. I would love to see her matchmaking skills reoccur in another of Phillips' delightful romances! Highly recommended.	2001-02-03
2116963:US	49693975	R1RKVFCZI85YZP	1930756690	421597220	The Globster of Glassy Beach	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Highly recommended	Jimmy becomes a living legend when a giant &quot;blob&quot; or &quot;globster&quot; washes up on the shimmering black sands of Glassy Beach, Maine. The globster looks like a beached whale, from a distance, but doesn't have a head. It does have gills. <br />Jimmy stands guard over his discovery while his sister Ashley runs home to his parents' bed and breakfast to get their Dad. Soon people begin to wander up, asking what the object is. Some folks think it's part of a dead whale or maybe a a giant oyster without a shell.  Jimmy's dad has other ideas: &quot;If it's what I think it is,&quot; Dad said, &quot;it's loaded with microscopic sea life and bacteria.&quot;<br />The globster is considered one of the &quot;great unsolved mysteries of the world.&quot; Lots of people want to see it, including a magazine reporter, fake and real scientists, and tourists. Jimmy finds himself camping on the beach to protect his discovery. But there are some things he can't protect the globster from.<br />THE GLOBSTER OF GLASSY BEACH provides a very interesting read for children ages 8-12. Based on fact, THE GLOBSTER presents a fascinating mystery from the sea, as well as insight, on this age level, into the origin of myth. Indeed, this book confronts the origin of myth and how science displaces myth when scientific answers become available. Yet THE GLOBSTER maintains a tone of wonder, filled with deep respect for the mystery and the magic of a new discovery, thereby honoring the Creator. While including biblical overtones, they are subtle and nicely appropriate. Highly recommended.	2001-02-03
2116982:US	49693975	RBP21XNM3CYIF	037324360X	556004724	Bridal Quest (Here Come the Brides)  (Silhouette Special Edition, No 1360)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Very highly recommended	In this second book of a series about triplets separated at birth, Jennifer Mikels presents THE BRIDAL QUEST. Readers will find this extraordinary tale of love and independence highly entertaining. <br />Mystery lady Jessica Walker couldn't help attracting the attention of small town Sheriff Sam Dawson. First he finds her staring into the darkened window of the diner staring at a help wanted sign. Then she is evasive in answering his questions about her identity and where is she staying.<br />Jessica gets the job as waitress at the diner, but her ability to charm dignitaries and CEO's scarcely prepared her for carrying plates and keeping orders straight. When Sam arrives with his nanny and two young daughters for lunch, Jessica finds herself serving his table. While the sheriff steps away for a moment, Jessica realizes the nanny is having a heart attack. Warning the sheriff of the problem, she efficiently distracts the girls, winning their hearts and the sheriff's gratitude. <br />That evening Jessica unfortunately finds herself once more unemployed after spilling a plate of spaghetti on the mayor's wife's lap. Despite her discouragement, however, Jessica is cheered by an unexpected encounter with the sheriff's daughters. Soon she finds herself taking the ill nanny's position.<br />Pink socks don't keep Jessica from learning the skills of housework and child care. She tackles each new challenge with great success; fortunately, Sam never mentions the pink socks. It doesn't take long for the growing attraction between Jessica and Sam to complicate their situation, compounded by the fact that Jessica obviously is keeping secrets about her past. When she laughingly tells Sam that she is an heiress, he underestimates how correct she was.<br />Family secrets, love, and devastated children create a remarkable story. Mikels creates memorable characters from the young child with the mysterious red purse to the reunion of sisters parted at birth. With charm and skill, THE BRIDAL QUEST will delight romance fans. Indeed, I was so entranced with this second book of a three part series that I immediately went to the shelf to find the first sister's story. Very highly recommended.	2001-02-03
2116986:US	49693975	R3UBGCM8MHZWO2	1928670377	662260181	The Hollow	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very highly recommended	Life's paths move in circles, and within those circles lies a hollow that may be a home where people live connected to what is important, &quot;who they are, where they come from.&quot; Or some may go to the hollow &quot;to hide, to cover themselves up and never live.. We all live in a hollow, a place of our own making.&quot;<br />Life's paths have brought Cathleen McCaffrey full circle when she is compelled to return to her beloved grandmother's deathbed. As she holds her dying grandmother's hand, Cathleen can't help wondering why Elijah Landerville is there, &quot;How important could one old white woman be to the chief of an Indian reservation.&quot; The answers will change her life forever.<br />Denying her heritage, denying the very substance of who she is, has left Cathleen dying from the inside out. Baffled by the Ojibway people of White Earth Minnesota's response to her grandmother's passing, Cathleen seeks answers in an old trunk with a brittle lock and a leather bound journal. The journal and the relics found in the trunk recount the history of Cathleen's ancestors in a vivid tale that changes Cathleen's perception of who she is and lends her life purpose and love. As Cathleen discovers her sacred path, the reader joins her journey, and the journey of the women who have come before her, in a sacred dance that spans generations to provide healing and closure to a damaged people.<br />Rather than a mournful tale of loss of a defeated people, McCarthy blends profound lessons of identity and heredity evenly with love and self-acceptance in a joyful reflection of lives seeking their sacred paths. McCarthy's deep understanding of the challenges of Native Americans and love of the world they inhabit reaches beyond a simple romantic tale to embrace the deeper issues of life. Her profound respect for the land and spirituality of the Native Americans brings to mind one of my personal favorite pieces of literature: William Least Heat-Moon's PRAIRYERTH. If you love Native American backgrounds, a deep respect for the earth and the people that inhabit it, or if you enjoy journeys of self-discovery, I can't recommend this novel enough.	2001-02-03
2116995:US	49693975	R1I1H6GA05PC51	1930364083	402246789	The Fragile Thread	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Very highly recommended	Once again Aliske Webb has used the quilting metaphor to record life experiences in THE FRAGILE THREAD. Echoing traditional heroic journeys of Greek legend, Aliske acknowledges the journey that all women share in their individual threads that weave life's tapestry. While drawing on lessons and metaphors familiar to all lovers of literature, however, Aliske gives THE FRAGILE THREAD a fresh philosophical twist guaranteed to provoke thought and refresh one's spirit at the same time. <br />The center of creativity and the heart of the novel, Grandma's Quilt Shop, recently opened by Aggie who, in her own quest begin life anew, has located in the small town of Clareville, in the middle of the west row around the town square. Excited by her new prospects, Aggie begins a quilt designed to record her new life. Each square represents the import events of her life, including family, change, fear, and success. The sampler reflects the common pattern to the journey all women share; yet the sharp uniqueness of fabric emphasizes Aggie's unique impressions. <br />Having found her spiritual home in her new quilt shop, Aggie is stunned to learn of the town's plans to replace the Town Square with a parking lot and a strip mall. The mayor's son, &quot;Little Al Jr&quot; spearheads the development project, and has already purchased half of the block where Aggie lives over her quilt shop. Aggie finds herself becoming a part of the women's business community to preserve the heritage of the city's park and historical buildings. <br />Like the heroes of Greek legend, each of Aggie's challenges is accompanied by encouragement from unexpected places, including the spirit of her deceased Grandmother, the mysterious and boisterous Jo, and the sexy fireman with a love of fabric. Surrounded by her daughters and the women of the community, Aggie records her challenges and successes within the sampler quilt, preserving the lessons of love and of strength. <br />For those who found themselves enraptured by THE PHOENIX QUILT, as well as new fans of Aliske Webb, this marvelous novel will provide a refreshing view of life and the spiritual journey we all share. I thoroughly enjoyed the novel, and eagerly look forward to journeying into more of Aliske's work.	2001-02-03
2117001:US	49693975	R27LDBRB3FIUCB	0373259069	233107678	Million Dollar Baby	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Highly recommended	A heroic act results in a million-dollar reward for Dean Kettering. He despises the notoriety that follows in the wake of saving lives, preferring a life of quiet and solitude. Further, while Dean could use the money himself to keep his boat afloat and food in his belly, he prefers to give it away. Dean hopes to use the money to make amends to Laura Sweeney, the widow of his best friend. When Laura's husband died in his arms, Dean had sworn a vow to see that Laura lacked nothing. But a night of passion, followed by intense guilt, forced Dean to leave her for six long years.<br />During the many years Dean and Laura had known one another, only an occasional glance acknowledged the link between them. She had truly loved her husband, and when Dean was the best man, the closest he ever came to revealing his feelings was when he whispered that he was trying to be happy for her. When her husband died, it was Dean who returned the personal effects to Laura. That was the only time control slipped and they made love. But Dean left in the night, and when Laura learned of her pregnancy, she couldn't locate him. Eventually she gave up trying.<br />Now Dean is back in her life, and Laura dares not accept his unexpected gift. If she does accept his money then she feel honor bound to tell him the secret she's kept for so long. She prefers not to tell this unreliable, wandering soul because she doesn't believe he'll stay; rather, he'll break both her and her daughter's hearts.<br />MILLION DOLLAR BABY by Patricia Ryan presents an age-old dilemma of love in a rather unique light. It's hard to not laugh when two people fight over not keeping a million dollars! Yet the tension of old love and the sparkle of new attraction weave an enrapturing tale that romance lovers will find quite enduring. A perfect afternoon's pleasure read, MILLION DOLLAR BABY, also captures a five-year-old's voice and wisdom perfectly, making this fun tale even more delightful. Highly recommended.	2001-02-03
2117004:US	49693975	R3DP0SKN2EMBVV	0373168594	256056862	Have Gown, Need Groom (The Hartwell Hope Chest)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Very highly recommended	Ever since Dr. Hannah Hartwell received the hope chest from her grandmother, her life has been turned upside down. Determined to outlive the family reputation for flamboyance, Hannah chose to marry Seth, in a very business-like merger guaranteed to provide stability. Seth would make her a Broadhurst, a member of one of the most prominent families in Sugar Hill, finally freeing her of the Hartwell image. Hannah blames her flamboyant father's ridiculous used car ads for her mother's decision to walk out on her ninth birthday. Despite her father's successful business, Hannah strives to maintain a quite, refined presence befitting a doctor. <br />In the hope chest are several gifts. A stone to remind Hannah not to let her man weigh her down. A doll to add to the collection that Hannah abandoned when she was nine. And most importantly, a pearl ring. The ring bears a family legend that if a woman wears the ring to bed the night before her wedding, she'll dream about the man she's meant to marry. She had the dream all right. And the man she dreams of is not Seth, but a mysterious stranger with a small crescent-shaped quarter-moon birthmark on his hip.<br />Dressed in her wedding gown, moments before the ceremony, Hannah calls off the wedding. Fleeing to the only place that can offer her refuge, Hannah goes to the emergency room. Embarrassed at having created another Hartwell spectacle, Hannah wants to loose herself in her work. There she meets Jake, who works for her father at the used car lot. He was shot in the derriere when someone tried to steal a car off the lot. When Hannah sees his birthmark, she realizes she knows him...intimately. He's the man from her dreams. <br />For the first time, Jake hopes this suspect turns out to be as innocent as she appears. He needs to use Hannah to prove that her father's used car lot is central to a car-theft ring. But a red rose, a handmade Christmas ornament, and suddenly the simple gestures suffuse him with emotion. He can't riskentanglement with Hannah; he's not meant for that kind of life. That's why he accepted the position with the special Atlanta task force that placed undercover detectives in hotbeds of crime. <br />She knows they can't have a future together. He's a self-proclaimed drifter who has no desire for ties, for family, for permanence. She wants all those things, a family practice and the town's respect. She couldn't tell him that she cancelled her wedding after dreaming about him. She'd promised to marry Seth because he was safe, stable, and Jake is none of those things.<br />I can't help but love a Grandma that sends a male stripper to her granddaughter's bachelorette party! And this family legend surrounding the ring promises two more stories in this miniseries. If they are as lively, sexy, and fun as this one, then they are all destined for my keeper shelf. Rita Herron's combination of passion and humor is wonderful, and comes Very highly recommended.	2001-02-03
2117007:US	49693975	RVHF568EQY5PJ	1930364555	806937587	Old Mother, Little Cat	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very highly recommended	&quot;What use is a life like this?&quot; asks her mother as she lies in a nursing home connected to a feeding tube, unable to get out of bed or use one of her arms. Gerber responds to her mother, &quot;Maybe because you have to have this experience (and I am having it, in my way, too), we are both making something valuable from it.&quot; Gerber not only shares the experience of watching her mother deteriorate, but she also shares life affirmations in the guise of a tiny kitten who brings joy in the midst of sorrow.<br />Busily planning her day, Gerber stands at her back door when she hears a small, desperate cry. Following the sound, she finds a kitten beneath the crawl space of her house. Luring the kitten out with food takes days, but brings a renewed energy and purpose to the act of living. The kitten touches the lives of each of her family members, even her mother who names it Maximilian because it's the closest any of the them will ever come to having a million.<br />In parallel stories, OLD MOTHER, LITTLE CAT describes the antics of a young life and the fading purpose of an old one. Despite the bleakness of the landscape of a death without dignity, Maxie, the kitten, becomes a shimmering ray of hope in the midst of desolation. Acknowledging the inevitability of old age and the battles that age brings, at times humorous, at times pathetic, Gerber's book remains cheerfully optimistic in its life affirming message.<br />Writing with stately grace and beauty, Gerber reveals the pain that our seniors and their families must endure. Despite the pain, Maxie becomes a metaphor for living life in the moment, for appreciating the immediate gifts offered by each day. OLD MOTHER, LITTLE CAT is a powerful, touching book. In fact, it's one of the remarkable novels I remember months after reading it, even though I review around 40 books a month. I heartily recommend it.	2001-02-03
2117011:US	49693975	R1M0URB27P2SY3	0373709390	151520735	Snow Baby: 9 Months Later (Harlequin Superromance No. 939)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Very highly recommend	Chantel Miller found herself unprepared for the narrow, two-lane in a late spring snowstorm. Nevertheless, she refused to allow a storm to deter her from reconciliation with her sister. They had not spoken for ten years until Chantel left behind the boyfriend she had stolen all those years ago, Wade, and her high fashion modeling career in New York to start over alone with a clerical job to a politician. Stacy wanted to believe that Chantel had changed. Further, Chantel desperately wanted to prove herself to her only living relative. But when she rear-ended an SUV who suddenly braked, life took an unexpected twist.<br />Dillion Broderick left the beautiful woman who rear-ended his SUV without expecting to see her again. When her tentative call came saying she was lost, he felt compelled to retrace his path and find her. Fearing Chantel would freeze to death, stuck at the side of the road, he searched for two hours, finding her after the police had even given up the search until morning. Determined to get her warm, he took her into his SUV where they spent the dark hours in extraordinary intimacy. That night was so much more than a one nightstand -- it was a shattering experience that left them both hungry for more time together.<br />Promising to get together soon, Chantel continued to her sister's rented cabin. Stacy was also waiting for her friend to arrive; hoping that this time her sister wouldn't steal her boyfriend. When her friend arrives, Stacy introduces them; little realizing that Chantel and Dillion had shared more than a fender bender. Chantel would rather loose Dillion, however, than loose her sister again, however painful the consequences. Soon the impossible happens, and Chantel learns that she is pregnant.<br />Brenda Novak creates a compelling tale of love, not only between a man and a woman, but also between sisters in SNOW BABY. Her powerful story-telling voice sweeps the reader through a stormy past and a painful present, providing the novel withdepth seldom matched in this genre. Indeed, the subplot, the story of Wade, the man who split the sisters, and the ongoing challenges he creates are both entertaining and remarkably created. If you read only once romance this year, I very highly recommend that you read SNOW BABY.	2001-02-03
2117012:US	49693975	R2T2Z8U046YNEN	0373243588	174948233	The Rancher Next Door : Lone Star Canyon (Silhouette Special Edition, 1358)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Very highly recommended	Darbys and Fitzgeralds have been feuding as long as Texas has been a state. Nevertheless, Katie thought Jake was nice, especially after he taught her how to ride a bike. That incident resulted in her brother and friends beating Jake soundly, before her father joined the fray. Nevertheless, their young attraction blossomed into love before Katie graduated from high school when Katie promised to love Jack forever. <br />When Katie had gone away to college she had begged Jack to join her. Jack refused, and in less than a year Katie married, had a child and divorced. Eleven years later Katie has moved her son Shane back to her home town to open her business as a physical therapist. One of her first patients is Hattie Darby, Jack's mother. <br />Jake couldn't leave his family's ranch. Leaving would make Jake like his father, who abandoned his mother and seven children. Instead, he set out to provide well for his family and his forays into oil and horse breeding assured his mother of a comfortable, modern home. Jake had given up the idea of marriage and family, even if he can't squelch his attraction to Katie. Even if their attraction feels just like eleven years ago when they were young and in love and &quot;close to dying if they didn't kiss one more time.&quot;<br />Katie's father provides tension to the story, presenting a harsh and abrasive character. Not only does he keep the ancient feud alive between the Darbys and Fitzgeralds, but he also expresses his displeasure with his grandson Shane's masculinity. Shane is terrified of his grandfather, preferring computers to cattle. Katie and Shane's temporary new home with Aaron was supposed to bring the family closer together while their own home was being built. Instead, the plan seems to be a miserable failure. Yet Katie loves her father, despite his rough edges and old-fashioned ways. <br />THE RANCHER NEXT DOOR by Susan Mallery is a terrific read. I admit to enjoying Mallery's language choices, such as when she describes Katie as &quot;a gallon of trouble in a pint-sized container.&quot; In addition to a fantastic hero and heroine, the secondary casts of characters are remarkably vivid with their individual defining characteristics. No character feels gratuitous, rather, each character adds to the spice of the whole, lending the novel a lovely complexity and depth. I especially love Hattie, whose zest for living led to a barrel racing accident, neatly providing Katie with her link to her lost love. Highly recommended.	2001-02-03
2117014:US	49693975	R21FPA2NL4IR0R	1929034393	403653997	Return of the Goddess Trilogy (Leave the Prince to Me, The Great Pretenders, & The Goddess Returns)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Highly recommended	Rather than reviewing each part of THE RETURN OF THE GODDESS TRILOGY by JoEllen Conger separately, I have chosen to review it as a single work. Sold as a single book, that is also how I read it, and how would encourage others to read it as well. <br />In the first book, LEANE THE PRINCE TO ME, Princess Iona prepares for her sixteenth birthday when she becomes an adult. A pampered, slightly spoiled child, she must mature quickly when her cousin Prince Sweetbriar arrives and demands that she marry him. Prince Swetbriar casts Iona into a castle tower denying her all comforts due her station until she agrees to the marriage. Much like a classic fairy tale, Iona states she cannot marry without braiding her ankle length hair, and completing other detailed preparations. Forced to braid to do all things for herself, the spoiled princess learns the value of the people who serve her. But the greatest growth of this princess begins when an enormous mirror is brought to the tower. This magical mirror leads to the another world, where she discovers Princess Anora, a warrior princess who lacks the social graces embodied by Iona. Betrothed to Realmsman Blackhawk, she has little use for his poetry and music. Anora attempts to teach Iona about the Dragon power they share.<br />In the second book, THE GREAT PRETENDERS, Iona's passivity is left behind as she discovers the warrior woman within herself. Gifted with as Equestedorian stallion that communicates with her telepathically, and a magical sword, she learns the necessity of fighting. When the stallion first meets Iona, he declares that she has no Dragon power or battle skills. Iona convinces the stallion that she must save Otherworld from the Great Chaos, and he accepts her as mistress. The sword also communicates telepathically and the arguments between it and the stallion provide delightful comic relief. Together, the three-fold power of the stallion, the sword and Iona, they give power to the will of the Dragoness. Meanwhile,Anora gains the loyalty of those who sought to overthrow her. Prince Sweetbriar quickly comes to realize the warrior woman isn't the same meek child he carried to the tower months ago, but little does he suspect how right he is. As the clouds of Chaos grow, the princesses seek to join the power of the White Dragoness and the power of the Black Dragoness to save both worlds.<br />In the third book, THE GODESS RETURNS, Iona must pass through the mountain belonging to Dwarves. There she meets a prophetess, who reveals the spell that will bind the White Dragoness and the Black Dragoness. She also must recover her sword's mate, which has been captured by an evil sorcerer. Meanwhile, Anora must find the king, who has been kidnapped by the sorcerer. Indeed, only when the Dragon power of black and white unites can both worlds be saved the sorcerer defeated. At risk of revealing too much, I'll stop there.<br />THE GODESS RETURNS is an uneven work, in that the tone of first book sounds like a fairy tale rather than a powerful return of a Goddess. However, with the second book, as the characters mature, so does the writing until I found myself swept away in the battle against Chaos. Perhaps the most delightful element that unites all three books is the marvelous character, Kuscus, a furry, talkative animal that is like a cross between a cat and a monkey. Kuscus travels freely between the worlds, and his antics keeps the reader delightfully entertained. Indeed, the mythical elements of enchanted stones, mystical creatures and magical elements are wonderful, making this book Highly recommended.	2001-02-03
2117036:US	49693975	R1WKC75XGDXYGI	073883646X	530060244	Children of Rhatlan	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Dream Realms Awards finalist	Duals are twins of an unusual nature. For one to be present, the other vanishes. So while Garum and Vayin have two bodies, they share one life, one place in the world. Living in a world that hates duals, Garum and Vayin must lead a very sheltered existence on their family's farm. So when an opportunity arrives that allows them time in the city, both were grateful. <br />Unfortunately, to secure lodging and food, they must steal a bauble that will pay their way. When Vayin slips away from a jeweler with the ring, she is quickly caught. A stranger, however, saves her from the dangerous situation. <br />Jevya makes it her life mission to save duals. Teaching them magic, Jevya gives duals the magical spells that allow them to live safely in the everyday world. Vayin is startled by Jevya's determination to bring her safely home. Garum and Vayin don't understand why Jevya insists upon helping them. <br />Soon they learn, however, that her brother Paterun, a powerful wizard, poses real danger to them. In possession of the magical &quot;The Claws of Rhatlan.&quot; the wizard gains not only the life and those whom he kills with the claws, but also their very souls. Consequently, their voices haunt him. But becoming a dual, Paterun hopes to regain the stillness of a quiet mind. <br />Wizards, duals, and magic combine in the CHILDREN OF RHATLAN by Jonathan Fismire to create an unforgettable tale of fantasy. As the judge for the recent Dream Awards contest, I admit to having great difficulty choosing only book for the first place, particularly considering the quality of the top five entries that included CHILDREN OF RHATLAN. The tight weave of the tale, the past pace, and the ingenuity displayed reveal a master story teller in the making. I certainly hope that Fismire intends to continue where left off, leading these marvelous duals into more adventure and perhaps finding a happy resolution for Vayin.	2001-02-03
2117044:US	49693975	R215T7ZNP2YVZR	1588203204	691877971	Funds for Writers: The Book	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Very highly recommended	All writers hear tales about &quot;free money&quot; out there going unused. But how many of us actually know where to find the money and how to apply for it? Hope Clark answers these dilemmas in FUNDS FOR WRITERS: THE BOOK. As a veteran of government service with a unique insight into the growing funds available, Clark educates writers on where to find sources that meet individual needs.<br />FUNDS FOR WRITERS: THE BOOK defines the funds available, including grants, fellowships, awards and contests. But it doesn't limit itself to the easy definitions; instead, it tackles such topics as nonprofits, partners, charities, and schools. In addition, Clark relates success stories, sources, and &quot;free stuff.&quot;<br />An indispensable source with a wealth of information, in FUNDS FOR WRITERS: THE BOOK has something for everyone. Written in a clear, succinct style with a dash of humor, in FUNDS FOR WRITERS: THE BOOK is the perfect stocking stuffer. The book is dedicated to the late K.D. McIntosh, author and journalist--I feel certain that she would be delighted with the material presented, as am I. Very highly recommended.	2001-02-03
2117055:US	49693975	R3VOWAPRBUO5S3	1929034210	100343508	The Plausible Prince : Part One of the Urrathe Wars Trilogy	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Very highly recommended!	THE PLAUSIBLE PRINCE by K. G. McAbee is not to be missed. Written with a tone that contains a delightful, tongue-in-check quality that is cheerfully determined to poke fun of genre fantasy, THE PLAUSIBLE PRINCE provides one of those rarely wonderful books that refuses to take itself too seriously. Be ready for a lot of fun with this novel!<br />A simple college professor, Matt Southers doesn't really believe the two strange men, Verene and Imre, who make him an incredible offer to take him to another world where he must take the the place of a deceased prince and save the world. Matt's world has previously consisted of studies of alchemy and magic, certainly not the real thing. <br />Our unlikely hero is beset with allergies, dripping nose and all, when he arrives at the new world where he still retains his all too human flaws of drinking too much and falling in love with the wrong woman. Ria Hawkmoon, the commander of Prince Methos' guard, loves the dead prince, but scorns the imitator. <br />As Matt becomes accustomed to the role of prince, he increasingly would rather retain silks and friends rather than return to the world of teaching Remedial English and Literature. Pretending to be a dead man at least allows him to be close the elusive Ria, and fills his fantasies built by role-playing games where his chamber walls are filled &quot;with shields and banners, lances and pikes, swords and daggers and spears, oh my.&quot; <br />Thrust into a world where he must fight a mighty wizard by mimicking a dead prince, Matt faces incredible challenges with a unique humor and grace that mark McAbee's fine writing style. This quick moving, lighthearted tale makes a fabulous read that I wouldn't hesitate to recommend to any fantasy lover. Be prepared to giggle your way through the adventure, and then pick of the next treasure from McAbee--THE PLAUSABLE PRINCE comes as double CD with AN UNWELCOME LEGACY.	2001-02-03
2117059:US	49693975	RKJY03UVC731O	1584950684	518393158	An Irish Lullaby	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Recommended	An overly enthusiastic gesture, a cup of coffee, and Maeve finds herself in the focus of every eye in the student union. Of course she spilled the blistering liquid on the sexiest, most popular professor on campus, Sean O'Flynn. As his Irish brogue makes light of the accident and leaves her knees weak, Maeve finds herself wildly attracted to the Irishman, even after he leaves her feeling humiliated. Determined to even the score, she pulls the greatest practical joke she's ever managed with her &quot;Plan Revenge.&quot; But when Sean gives a whole new meaning to &quot;stiff shirt,&quot; the joke's on Maeve!<br />The counterbalance to humor, dark memories plague both Maeve and Sean, as fire and pain haunt each. Maeve only allows Puss, her gray cat, hear her inner secrets. On the other hand, Sean is like his poetry--a mix of beauty and ugly, carrying eternal memories of Ireland's violence and wonder. Adept at keeping others at bay, both Maeve and Sean are inexplicably drawn to one another. But miscommunication and self-recriminations threaten their tentative relationship and, unless they can learn to share their pasts, they can never share a future.<br />Smart, sexy, and sassy! IRISH LULLABY by Leta Nolan Childers challenges the searing memories of the past while igniting the erotic flames of the present. The smell of lavender, the touch of rose petals and the sight of flaming red hair bring this novel vividly alive. Combining this Irish poet with a flaming red head results in a passionate, memorable tale.	2001-02-03
2117081:US	49693975	RLCWVW5ST0B5A	1929034911	834224612	Earth Magic	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Highly recommended	Acting on a dare, twelve-year-old Jenna Douglas, her older brother Cal, and her cousin Annie investigate the much-whispered about Hill House. Jenna suspected something strange goes on there, and she is determined to ferret out the house's secrets. Unexpectedly, Jenna finds herself transported to a parallel universe complete with magic, sorcerers and talking cats. <br />Transported to an alternative universe, Jenna meets Nigel, Master Sorcerer of Earth One, his young friend, Rob Hathaway, and Rob's adopted brother, Victor, a telepathic feline. Victor, the oversized feline who acts as Rob's guide dog, but seems to think he is human. <br />Jenna must find a way home, and when her cousin is inadvertently transported from earth, find her as well. Otherwise, Remus, a sorcerer from Earth Two that is another parallel universe, will gather enough magic to Cross Over into her world. Soon Jenna learns of her own ability for magic in these alternative worlds, and finds she must pit her newfound abilities against the very dangerous elements which threaten her own universe. <br />EARTH MAGIC is a snappy adventure certain to entertain young adults and the young at heart. Written in an irreverent, delightfully humorous tone, EARTH MAGIC transports the reader from a world of the mundane into a world of magic. Be careful when you start EARTH MAGIC, for it's a page turning adventure that's impossible to put down. This reviewer certainly hopes for a sequel to EARTH MAGIC from Paula Gorgas.	2001-02-03
2117085:US	49693975	RKINLPX77EM26	1930756836	214661297	Loving Marie	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very highly recommended!	LOVING MARIE by Dawn Reno recounts rebuilding a life alone after divorce. Krista Bordon-Hathaway moved from Hartford, Connecticut to Morrison, Colorado to find answers. Her best friend Marie Alonzo had died when Krista needed her most. Now she must learn who she is, and who she wishes to be. <br />Years of Marie's letters filled Krista's life with beauty. Marie wrote of her &quot;perfect&quot; life and her love for her Colorado home. But an accidental discovery of Marie's journal reveals the pain and joy concealed behind that perfect life. Her journal reveals the emptiness of a marriage gone wrong, the joy watching a child mature, and the guilt of stolen love. <br />As she begins rebuilding her life, Krista meets Peter Goddard, the man Marie had once loved. Her own growing feelings are tainted by the insecurity of knowing her beloved friend had loved Peter, too. Further, Krista feels torn, having left her daughter with her grandmother when she came to Colorado. <br />Desperately trying to raise enough money to bring her teenage daughter to Colorado, Krista can't do it fast enough to prevent her abusive ex-husband and her own mother from taking custody of her daughter. The ensuing battle for her daughter lends a depth to the novel not to be missed. <br />LOVING MARIE is of those gentle, thoughtful stories that touches the heart without devolving into sentimentality. Indeed, LOVING MARIE combines the quest for self identity with a love story, both with love between man and woman, but also with love between mother daughter, thereby touching three generations and revealing the true depth of emotion concealed beneath the surface. While the quest to regain her daughter takes Krista into the deepest realms of the heart, the pain and the passion doesn't overshadow the quest for self-identity, lending the novel a unique balance seldom achieved in mainstream fiction. This is one of the year's must reads, and an absolute keeper. Very highly recommended.	2001-02-03
2117087:US	49693975	R28ZJYS8GDKG44	1930364725	81530448	Mostly Max	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very highly recommended	MOSTLY MAX by Marianne E. Alexander provides a delightfully humorous, beautifully written account of being adopted by a pug. When Marianne and her daughter decide they want a dog, they are scarcely prepared for their lives to be taken over completely.<br />When Marianne's daughter Laura came to adopt a pet, she decided that nothing but a pug would do. Together mother and daughter carefully research the breed, agreeing to share pet responsibilities. Eventually, they adopt Max, and the great adventure begins. Because of work responsibilities, Marianne becomes primarily responsible for Max, and Max certainly finds ways to joyfully share most every aspect of her life from going to the bank to visiting friends.<br />Marianne offers tremendously insightful information, not just about sharing one's life with a pet, but also penetrating some of the mystique of dog shows and a lifestyle many pet owners never explore. Filled with love, tempered by common sense, MOSTLY MAX entertains and informs with flare and originality. And the &quot;Glossary of Little Known Terms that Relate to a Pug&quot; at the end left this reviewer laughing out loud.<br />MOSTLY MAX is not just for those who are considering being adopted by a pug; indeed, it is for everyone who's been adopted by any pet. All pet lovers will identify with the love and challenges that go with having small creatures in the house. With a household that currently includes 21 various pets, I find myself reading many pet related books. And of all the pet stories I've read, I must confess that MOSTLY MAX is now at the top of my reading list.	2001-02-03
2117107:US	49693975	R1YTR3FV3BAKA7	0966820932	449689524	BloodWind	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very highly recommended	BLOODWIND by Charlotte Compo-Boyett is a science fiction thriller that strikes at both the heart and gut. This tragic story of people intent upon a path to self-destruction, as well as the tragic manipulation of a couple brought together for political purposes, holds power over both the imagination and the heart.<br />Men like Captain Kamerone Cree, called Reapers, cause fear in the population. Women are kept safely locked away, and men remain likewise concealed when Reapers can be seen. There are only six other men like Cree, carefully trained, conditioned, genetically manipulated, deadly, and capable of dangerous transformation.<br />Cree, highest-ranking warrior in the Ministry of Acquisitions, thought himself immune to mundane things like emotions, until the Tribunal decided to make an example of him. Ordered to the Ministry of Behavioral Modification to be treated by Active Reinforcement, Cree finds himself tortured and brainwashed. But his tormentors are not just the Tribunal members of the Rysalian government. There is another power at work within those subliminal messages.<br />Cree blames the Resistance for his torture at the Ministry Behavioral Modification. Indeed, the Resistance holds far more power over him than he imagines. So when their plot to insinuate the beautiful Dr. Bridget Dunne into his life succeeds, their goals move one step closer to fruition. They aim to stop the import of earth women to replace the complete loss of Rysalian women. They want equality and freedom for the women of the planet. And they want to stop the deaths of all female infants. While their goals are noble, there's a dangerous corruption within that threatens the wellbeing of the entire planet.<br />BLOODWIND's themes of revenge and love will captivate science fiction lovers. The vicious manipulations and vivid characterizations bring this story to life with extraordinary intensity. Vicious creatures seeking blood, DNA manipulated blood, and the shedding of the blood of innocents creates a story of remarkable depth. BLOODWIND is scheduled to followed by DARKWIND, the continuing story of Cree, and EVILWIND, the story of his son. This reviewer eagerly looks forward to the sequels!	2001-02-03
2117111:US	49693975	RJJHVB8YQTDPH	0965384632	480797501	An Hour to Kill: A True Story of Love, Murder, and Justice in a Small Southern Town	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Very highly recommended	Authors Dale Hudson and Billy Hills unmask the forces that lay concealed beneath the small town of Conway, South Carolina when Crystal Fay Todd--a lovely high school senior -- is brutally murdered. This riveting account will hold the reader spellbound right through the surprising evidence in the sentencing hearing. <br />Three and a half months of investigation left law enforcers stumped; but in their dogged determination to solve this horrific crime, they request blood tests of community members. <br />Ken Register, friend of the family and neighbor, comforts the victim's mother, offering support until he's requested to take a blood test. Suddenly, Ken is convinced he's going to be framed for Crystal's murder. His fear of being arrested is certainly well founded, since Ken's DNA was found in the victim's body cavities. <br />Authors Hudson and Hills have resolutely researched thousands of pages of court documents, interviews and other sources to present this account of South Carolina's most brutal murder. While many questions remain unanswered, as indeed many questions were unanswered by the trial, the authors have constructed a viable account of the truth and the pain resulting to all involved. <br />The narrative form allows the readers to experience the shock of the crime and the impact of the investigation that ripped this small town apart, dividing loyalties and forever destroying lives. For lovers of true crime, AN HOUR TO KILL is a must read!	2001-02-03
2119703:US	49693975	R2JAR0AXD6PSTJ	0553580477	843615396	The Outlaw Bride	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very highly recommended	When the Sioux Indian sights the black-and-white horse on the mountain ridge, a feeling of doom passes through Bear Claw. His people associate the sighting of the horse with death. Nevertheless, Bear Claw delivers Sims Callahan to Josie Miller, whose knowledge of the law is matched by her knowledge of medicine. <br />Josie thinks that Sims looks like &quot;a dark angel who'd been shot out of the sky.&quot; Fiercely protective of her charge, Josie refuses to allow him to be carried to town and to jail. Despite what others believe, Josie believes that Sims is no outlaw. The daughter of a prostitute, Josie knows plenty about what men and women do together, and hold no desire to ever allow a man to cause her to loose control. But she smells of soap and sunshine, and despite his best intentions, Sims cannot resist the spitfire of a woman who's determined to provide legal representation. <br />Sims and his brother Ben disappeared along with a saddlebag of money that was supposed to pay for a herd of cattle. When Bear Claw found Sims, he was near death. Ben wasn't found at all. If Ben doesn't turn up and the money for the cattle is gone, they will loose the ranch. Without the new cattle or the money they had contributed to buy them, all the ranchers that contributed will be foreclosed upon. Further, those ranchers will want to lynch Sims despite Josie's lawyering skills. <br />As a new comer to Sandra Chastain's work, I find THE OUTLAW BRIDE delightful. The spunky heroine counterbalanced by the dangerous hero provides highly entertaining reading. Josie doesn't believe she's a lady any more than Sims believes that he's a gentleman. But together they are provocative, feisty, and great fun! Very highly recommended.	2001-01-31
2119772:US	49693975	R29J4JXM6PUSKR	0786013125	392822507	The Summoning	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Highly recommended!	Originally published in 1993, THE SUMMONING by Bentley Little went out of print. Now, luckily for horror fans, THE SUMMONING returns to print, providing an eerie glimpse into evil when Rio Verde, Arizona becomes the focal point of a depravity older than time. <br />A vision of Jesus Christ inspires Pastor Dan Wheeler to build the Church of the Living Christ. As hammering, sawing and nailing continues through the late night and early morning hours, volunteers build the church of Wheeler's dreams. A church like no other, its black walls towering in the desert landscape. Wheeler knows he lacks the charisma of television evangelists. Nevertheless, the influence of the being Wheeler calls Christ enriches his influence on these around him. Wheeler believes Jesus' favorite color is black. He gathers weapons in preparation of the Lord's work. The Christ figure tells him that he has forty days to prepare for the Second Coming. <br />Bodies of humans, animals, and insects, are found drained of all fluids. Brad Woods, a local coroner, has performed autopsies on a lot of bodies, and none has ever scared him until now. Never has he seen a body so completely drained of fluids. Worse, he finds bite marks on the neck. Now seven citizens of Rio Verde must hunt down the vampire before their town is decimated. <br />Little creates a vampire unlike any other. Rather than conforming to the characteristic vampire myths, he follows Chinese legend. For example, instead of fearing holy water and crosses, this vampire fears jade. Rather than the dapper European gentleman vampire, or the young punk/rocker vampire, or the sexy misunderstood vampire, Little boldly creates a creature of immense evil replacing attraction with stark terror. Combined with a rich cast of characters, each uniquely sketched and vividly realized, THE SUMMONING is a macabre tale that comes Highly recommended.	2001-01-31
2119831:US	49693975	R2J60Y9J3VGCEJ	050552399X	247343344	Of Midnight Born	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Highly recommended	A woman in England during the 1350s didn't have a lot of options to ensure her longevity. Serena Clerebold had to find a husband. The Plague had killed most of her family as well as decimating the population surrounding her family's keep. With winter coming, no one to help harvest food, and inadequate knowledge of farming, Serena was desperate. Unfortunately, her plan to marry ended in her own death, leaving her a ghost at what become known as Maiden Castle. <br />Serena had worked hard to chase away the previous occupants, and was equally determined to rid herself of Alex Woding as well. After five hundred years, she believed she had earned the castle with her blood and determination. She hated living people. Especially this man who makes her long for flesh again, and the opportunity to experience the passion always denied her. Soon she will discovery how much she underestimates Alex. <br />Alex rented Maiden Castle for the view. An astronomer, it was the perfect place for him to study the night sky. He staffs the castle with only men, having had enough of female influence with his sisters and deceased wife. Little does he realize how profoundly his life will be changed by another female -- one not even living. <br />OF MIDNIGHT BORN proves itself both delightful and whimsical. Lisa Cach manages to bring the impossible to life making suspension of disbelief very easy for the reader. Indeed, Cach succeeds in bringing remarkable emotional depth to these characters, thereby creating a tale of love that will capture the reader's heart. Original and memorable, I highly recommend OF MIDNIGHT BORN.	2001-01-31
2119863:US	49693975	RGEE1N12EJN2A	0821767631	888627723	Apache Angel (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Highly recommended!	The daughter of a saloonkeeper, Anna Alexander knows no one will ever believe that she killed the man in self-defense. She flees, carefully concealing her tracks, hoping to begin somewhere anew. When Anna runs out of money in the New Mexico Territory, she finding a place to live in Mrs. Harrington's boarding house. Despite the kindness of Mrs. Harrington, Anna plans to stay only long enough to earn enough money to be on her way again.<br />A walk in the mountains results in Anna saving Storme Warwick's life. He claims he owes her a life debt, and honor demands that he repay it kind. The last time Anna was alone with a man, it resulted in trouble with the law. Therefore, despite her immediate attraction to Storme, she doesn't dare encourage his attention. Especially when she learns that he's a bounty hunter. Nevertheless, the past soon catches up to Anna as danger threatens.<br />Storme left Pleasant Grove because he believes his presence resulted in his father's murder. As a bounty hunter and half Apache, he has many enemies, and he knows that the bullet wasn't meant for his father, but was meant for him. His brother Ben's request for help brings him back to Pleasant Grove to track the rustlers who decimate their stock. As damage escalates, Storme soon realizes that the rustlers want more cattle; they want revenge. As he valiantly endeavors to protect Anna and his brother from danger, Storme learns that love is more important than life itself.<br />APACHE ANGEL by Jackie Stephens is a sexy western that beautifully captures the atmosphere that makes historical romance entertaining. Not only are the hero and heroine passionate and believable, but the secondary characters also bring a richness to the tale. I wouldn't mind hearing more of Mrs. Harrington's past, as well as more of the girls who live with her. Filled with intrigue, twists and turns, APACHE ANGEL keeps the pages turning. Highly recommended.	2001-01-31
2119935:US	49693975	R10VI0NT69CHKM	0373709595	383869505	The Marriage Contract (Marriage of Inconvenience #9, Harlequin Superromance #959)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very highly recommended	When Senator Jeff Dylan passes away, Nick finds himself mourning not the memory of his father, but the knowledge of his father's lifelong disappointment in him, as well as the relationship they never had. Although he'd never been the son his mother wanted either, Nick still finds himself drawn to her side when he hears reports of brandy and sleeping pills. He moves back into his father's house to care for his mother, who had never gotten the fact that she was Jeff's housemaid until he got her pregnant. Then Nick learns that Jeff's will demands that his son marry for love within a year and live in the family home for the first year of the marriage.<br />The sight of the Atherton house at foot of his family's estate always produces pangs of helpless guilt in Nick. Derelict and forgotten, the Federation era house once known as The Oaks slowly decays. Jeff only bought the mortgage and closed on it to wound the Arthertons. It was Jeff's way to take vengeance on the man who'd married Sylvia Atherton, the only woman he had ever loved. Nick sees Sylvia's daughter at the way to right the past. In return for marriage, he'll give The Oaks back to Clair. <br />Their family history seems an insurmountable barrier between them. His father the Senator defines Nick's identity to their small town, and no one seems to understand that his name has nothing to do with who he really is. They can't talk about the things that really matter without inflicting pain. Coming from a loving family, Clair Atherton can't possibly understand how his existence embarrassed his mother Leota and father Jeff. Yet their shared pain in the past seems to connect Nick and Clair in the most unlikely way.<br />Leota and Clair are both strong, but neither seems to be able to use it to benefit others without Nick's delicate influence. His delicate determination to love them offers a bright future if only both women will accept themselves and the love he offers. Instead, it seems Leota is determined to get lostin her jealousy of the younger woman, to destroy rather than to build a future. She becomes a mother on a mission, determined to free her son from the Atherton woman. Nothing would hurt her more than to let Sylvia Artherton's daughter win.<br />Anna Adams skillfully writes in a distinctly crisp, sharp tone that uniquely reflects the tension between her characters, at times relaxing into a softer prose that reflects the emotions beneath the tension. The brittle tension periodically allows the glow of passion and love to shine through like sunlight on a cloudy day, lending Adams' prose a polish and sophistication quite rare in genre romance. Very highly recommended.	2001-01-31
2119993:US	49693975	RTTKMA1BZ91SF	0373259123	928032463	Love'S Funny That Way (The Wedding Ring)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Very highly recommended!	The four women have been best friends since kindergarten. When they graduated from high school, they formed THE WEDDING RING CLUB, agreeing to find each other husbands if any of them are still single at age thirty. Little did they suspect just how complicated that agreement would become twelve years later.<br />When Raven Muldoon's friends introduce her to Brent Radley, the pact is set into motion. Sexy, attentive, eager Brent wants to find the right woman and get married. Raven has promised, as part of her pact, to date the chosen man for three months, much to her heart's dismay. Because when Raven meets Brent's younger brother Hunter, she immediately knows she's dating the wrong brother!<br />As a hypotherapist, Raven reaches tremendous conflict when Hunter becomes one of her clients. Despite her suspicions regarding the validity of Hunter's phobia, Raven proceeds in a professional manner, attempting to maintain appropriate distance. Nevertheless, her heart won't let her off the hook--nor will her oddball matchmakers.<br />Seeking to overcome her own phobia, speaking in front of large groups of people, Raven finds herself appearing at Hunter's comedy club. Soon Raven realizes that she has a real knack for stand up comedy. Yet her new boyfriend Brent is obviously absent during these midweek engagements, leaving Raven with his brother. Issues of family loyalty and morals leave both Raven and Hunter shaken.<br />This series has a fun, marvelously troublesome premise. Matchmaking notoriously goes wrong, and yet in these cases, that wrong makes such a terrific right! In January, I DO, BUT HERE'S THE CATCH will lead to the second matchmaking when Charlie enters a marriage of convenience. In February Sunny's story appears in ONE EAGER BRIDE TO GO, and twice divorced Amanda finds love in March with FIANCÉ FOR HIRE. As wonderful as this story is, I can hardly wait for the rest!	2001-01-31
2120027:US	49693975	RFXUZZTBZXA4H	0515129712	175484378	On Thin Ice	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very highly recommended	Taking a year off law school to clerk in the DA's office, Ellie Kramer uses the opportunity to investigate her father's case. New Year's Eve all those years ago, she and her father stayed up making popcorn to welcome the New Year. Then he was arrested, and four months later her father was sent away for a crime he didn't commit. The lawyers didn't even let Ellie testify, because no one believes a twelve-year-old. Her father died in prison, but Ellie still believes she can prove his innocence. She believes one of the two investigating cops, Michael Callas, or Finn Rasmussen, committed the brutal crime that put her father in prison.<br />Ellie is a chameleon. She has the marvelous ability to fit in, whatever her surroundings, whatever lie she must tell. When Michael meets her, he immediately recognizes her ability to fit her surroundings, and yet he also recognizes how she remains guarded, concealing secrets she refuses to reveal. When Finn Rasmussen sees her for the first time, even spread out in the snow from a fall, she still seemed natural in her surroundings. Ellie possesses a radiance that pulls both men to her. She doesn't know which one is guilty, or even if one of them is. Maybe she's spent all these years on a useless quest.<br />It was easy to catch Michael's attention. She had only to be young, fresh, open, and show him a little warmth. His kisses leave her feeling vulnerable, making her want him. Finn is much more difficult. Wealthy, attractive, he can have anything money can buy, and any woman who wishes to be associated with his exotic playboy aura.<br />The dark, brooding detective wanted to tell her what he feels, but keeps those words locked away in the place he keeps all his hopes and fear and questions. He knows Ellie isn't what she seems. There's something more than a simple law student clerking for the DA. Michael wants to know her secrets. But when he realizes why Ellie seemed interested in him, Michael feels that he's fallen victim to the ultimate betrayal. Oh how she must be laughing he believes. She had searched him out, chosen him, set out to get him, but he can't figure out why. <br />Her common sense warns her that Finn Rasmussen could be dangerous, but her heart won't believe it. The more time she spends with this security systems entrepreneur, the more difficult it is to imagine him as a mad, calculating killer. Finn doesn't want a woman like Ellie in his life. He doesn't need some law student cluttering up his well-ordered existence. He equates her with trouble. Yet he can't stay away, no matter how he tries.<br />Lynn Erickson creates a masterful suspense with ON THIN ICE. While she reveals the killer fairly early, she also slowly peals away the layers of these fascinating characters, bringing them vividly to life and making them frightening real. As the tension builds and the pages turn faster and faster, the reader will be swept away in a dangerous world where Ellie steps very carefully ON THIN ICE. Very highly recommended.	2001-01-31
2120139:US	49693975	R36FB5JET4T5HL	0373259093	321719877	Ms. Taken (The Personal Touch!)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very highly recommended!	Tidy, precise, inhibited Jane Dobson lived very deliberately, from her seven cashew lunch to her skirts that rode up her thigh so much and no more. While she held the position of ad secretary for Charles Warren, Jane is actually a dreamer, who lives most of her life lost in fantasy. She carefully disguises her inner sensuality until one day a two pound plaster Cupid falls on her head. <br />In the emergency room, Jane struggles to remember her identity. Rather that her own, she latches onto the first name that comes to mind; that is, Jane Dobson claims to be Holly Baskin. The name comes from a personal ad her boss asked her to place in a magazine. Charles believes it's time to marry and assure an heir to the family business. He doesn't quite recall why he and Holly broke up, but he does recall liking her no nonsense approach to life. So when Jane waltzes into his board room, calling herself Holly and blithely announcing their engagement to everyone present, amidst some very heated kissing, Charles is stunned. But no more stunned than by his best friend's advice to go along with this new &quot;Holly&quot; for a while. The question remains as to whether these two lost souls can heal -- together. <br />When one woman's fantasy romance becomes an unlikely reality, Jo Leigh's MS. TAKEN provides one of the most improbably, highly delightful romances I have ever read. Leigh combines the outrageous with the humorous to create a wonderfully light heart romance filled with possibilities. Indeed, MS. TAKEN has brilliant characters that come to life in this splendid, sexy romance. I found myself completely swept away, sneaking by book in my pocket during breaks at work because I had to know what happens next. Imagine my very sober office mates as I burst out in uninhibited laughter! Very highly recommended.	2001-01-31
2120466:US	49693975	R2NZV9BAJNOEXM	0373259115	251968805	Seduced (Blaze)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very highly recommended!	Since the moment a year ago when lawyer Ryan Matthews first laid eyes on the beautiful Jessica Newman, he has wanted her. Despite her disparaging lawyer jokes, Ryan finds himself inexplicably drawn to Jessica when she actually seeks him out. Never mind she wants to use his house to throw a surprise party for friends who hadn't had a reception when they had gotten married. Planning the party for New Year's Eve, Jessica plans to catch them by surprise, but she needs Ryan's help.<br />Jessica has no tolerance for lawyers, particularly divorce lawyers. A divorce lawyer had made life extremely difficult for her mother when she was a child, and she questions the ethics of all divorce lawyers now. Yet she finds that she has little defense against Ryan's brand of lazy seduction and hypnotic patience. And she's certainly never before felt such instantaneous and wild passion. Yet she fights that passion, believing that his whole profession contradicts everything she believes in and wants for herself--&quot;love, marriage and family.&quot;<br />Being a bachelor suits Ryan. He likes single-mindedly pursuing his career goals without the distraction of a serious relationship. At least his cat doesn't object to his sometimes grueling schedule and late nights. Nevertheless, he enjoys the time he spends with Jessica because he finds her so arousing. <br />Delightfully fast paced, SEDUCED will heat the coldest winter night. Reminiscent of the movie NINE AND A HALF WEEKS, with its marked sensuality and passion, SEDUCED contains alluring characters and passionate love scenes that will delight romance readers. A first class seductive read, SEDUCED is Very highly recommended.	2001-01-31
2120492:US	49693975	R3VSMROUZSDW7	0821766678	579792127	Bachelors Inc.: Marrying Owen (Zebra Bouquet Romances)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very highly recommended!	The first of the Bachelors Inc. miniseries, MARRYING OWEN by veteran author Colleen Faulkner delights readers with the story of an estranged couple forced into close quarters by an unexpected storm, proving love finds a way despite profound opposition. <br />When the three friends of the GAG club (Girls are Gross) return to Land's End to go into business together, they rename their association Bachelors Inc. and plan to restore old buildings to their past glory. All three men swear off women, just as they had when they were ten, promising to support one another in their efforts to avoid women; that is, until Owen's ex-wife comes back to town. Owen Thomas fell for Abby Maconnal when they were ten years old, despite his agreement with his buddies to stay away from girls. Even when the friends formed the GAG club, Owen couldn't help liking the pretty girl with freckles. Some things just don't change, despite hurt feelings and divorce. <br />Ten years of marriage ended not with a bang, but with a whimper. Too many hours in the office, too many late dinners, and too many postponements of current pleasure for the promise of something better later left Abbey alone, empty and disillusioned. She and Owen didn't fight, didn't raise their voices, didn't disagree. They simply, quietly drifted apart until the day Owen came home to an empty home. A quiet, polite divorce seemed to settle it. <br />An editor, Abbey saved until she could take a year off to devote to her own novel. On the way to her rented home in Florida, she stops by Owen's to pick up some precious keepsakes from the past. She didn't check the weather before leaving Boston, and finds herself forced to seek shelter with Owen rather than continuing to Florida due to a hurricane. Then an unexpected illness keeps her there even longer. Besides, Abbey finds she doesn't want to leave, nor does Owen want to let her go. But trusting feelings in the wake of a divorce proves to be daunting and difficult, at best. <br />The concept of Bachelor's Inc. left this reviewer in stitches. The harder these guys protest against women, the harder the reader knows they are bound to fall. Moreover, Faulkner writes with a passion that brings these delightful characters to life. Even Max, the father of one of the bachelors, captures the imagination as he tools through town on his riding lawn mower. I have a weakness for well created miniseries because they allow the reader to linger in the world just a bit longer, lending the series a depth unequalled by stand-alone books. Although this novel certainly could be read alone, it exemplifies the best qualities presented by miniseries and comes Very highly recommended.	2001-01-31
2120508:US	49693975	R2AR7QK8KYSX6C	0373259034	904912259	Intimate Stranger (Blaze)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Very highly recommended	Seven years ago she disappeared without a trace. For every moment of those years, Trev Montgomery has desperately missed Diana. Now the courts have declared her legally dead. Throwing his gold ring into the waves of the ocean, Trev vows to return to the world of the living. Then he sees a woman who claims to be a &quot;working girl&quot; but looks and laughs strikingly like Diana. He doesn't want to believe that Jen is a prostitute; that she could charge her for the passionate moments they share. Further, he must have more of her. He can't walk away.<br />Jennifer Hannah didn't want to leave he after husband of four months. Surely one last night together wouldn't matter after seven years. She'll just have to leave and start over again, just like she's done so many times before. Nevertheless, Jennifer knows she inflicted the pain she sees in Trev's eyes, and determines that she will provide him with a moment's healing, even if she must lie about being a prostitute to be able to provide that relief.<br />In a surreal moment, a journey out of reality, two people who once loved with incredible passion meet and love again. But the moment must pass. If Jennifer is recognized, she could be killed, as could any of her loved ones. But when Trev demands two days and three nights with Jennifer, and promises to let her walk away if she won't accept his help, Jennifer finds herself unable to resist. <br />So begins a quick paced tale of romance and danger that will hold the reader enthralled to the last moment. With the special grace, Donna Sterling creates a memorable romance that readers will find to be a real keeper. The vivid characterization and convincing plot line will remain with the reader long after the last page is turned. Very highly recommended!	2001-01-31
2120513:US	49693975	RUS5P967FS04K	082176778X	466899844	Seeing Stars (Zebra Bouquet)	Books	5	46	49	N	N	Highly recommended!	Claire would have preferred to skip her high school reunion, but her best friend Jennifer substitutes romance novels for the astronomy journals Clair packed. Insisting that it's time to shake Claire out of her pleasant rut of stars and solitude, she also sneaks a too-tight red dress into Claire's suitcase. Much against her better judgment, Claire finds herself returning to Port Townsend, Washington.<br />When she finds herself alone with Blake, the man she'd had a crush on during high school, fantasy hits high gear. Claire longs for a wildly improbable affair with the man she'd once watched wistfully from the high school halls, intending to take sensations and memories back to her mountain top retreat with the stars. Sharing her passion with Blake makes everything in her life feel, better, sharper, more real. She can't stay away from this man who's eyes fill with challenge and speculation.<br />Blake promises a week of passion and fantasy in exchange for Claire's assistance with a troubled young man. He tells Claire that they are safe -- that there is no danger of falling in love. Blake doesn't have time for a serious relationship. He is too busy working overtime, taking on too many jobs to pay his sister's university tuition. He is already stretched to the limit with the shipyard, his aid to troubled boys, and his family. Blake has a passion for hard work, fast boats, and rough kids. Any woman who enters his life must be strictly temporary.<br />Soon, however, he won't long be able to deny that he fell in love with Claire when his eyes found her across the crowded banquet room. The years had erased the painfully shy girl, leaving a vibrant, fascinating woman. He can't walk away from this woman with intense blue eyes and passion boiling just beneath the surface. But persuading her to stay may be impossible.<br />Clair dreams of running her own observatory and finding comets; she's already had her first discovery named after her. Claire also fears the lust that makesher loose herself with Blake. With him filling her life, she's afraid there will be no room for the world of stars, of comets, that she'll cease to be herself and won't know who she is. Nevertheless, Claire and Blake find something that leaves them both open and vulnerable -- not just passion but something far more shattering -- fulfillment.<br />SEEING STARS becomes a wonderful blend of mistakes and compromise, of dreams and promises. As both Claire and Blake struggle with priorities and self-identity, they learn lessons of love. SEEING STARS balances the heart, career and family with grace. Vanessa Grant has a real feel for modern challenges of career, distances, and the heart. SEEING STARS is Highly Recommended.	2001-01-31
2120533:US	49693975	R247MN6YGNKT4X	0373259018	425824088	Reckless	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Very highly recommended!	Readers who enjoyed NOBODY DOES IT BETTER will delight in this new romance by author Julie Kenner. The same warm, flowing style and light hearted humor that marks this wonderful author's prose shines through with dazzling intensity in RECKLESS. <br />For ten years Rachel has built a new life creating an image of strength and powerful sexuality. The mask had become to convincing, in fact, that she even fooled herself into believing the Belinda Rachel of her childhood bad been banished forever. Now she plans to attend her high school reunion to taunt, tease and leaving hanging the three men she blames most for her miserable childhood. She left her small town of Braemer a fat, shy girl. She returns a svelte sex kitten. Those who were responsible for voting her &quot;Most Likely to Die a Virgin&quot; would be panting for her attention. <br />In her new life in New York, Rachel always maintained the upper hand, never letting anyone too close. Typically, when a man started to get even remotely close, she dumped him. The one man she dated for a month soon say through her tough veneer and quickly departed rather than live with the vulnerability beneath her exterior. Therefore, she was ill prepared for her reaction to the charismatic, sexy man who rescues her at the side of road. <br />Garrett was immediately enamoured with the beautiful woman standing over the wounded black lab at the side of the road. Amazed by her resourcefulness, Garrett admired the way she used her pantyhose as an emergency bandage, and quickly put his veterinarian skills to work helping with the hurt dog. When Rachel mistakes him for her high school nemesis, Garrett doesn't volunteer that he's not Carl, but Carl's elder brother. The dazzling woman before him conceals vulnerability that touches his heart, and from the first moment he sees her, Garrett determines to make her a part of his life. Even if he has to help her with her plans of revenge. <br />RECKLESS will delight romance lovers with his enticing plot and vivid characterization. Kenner has a knack for creating characters that really pull the reader into the story. Walking a bit on the wild side, RECKLESS combines the wanton and the wild with the vulnerable and the shy to create a remarkable tale of love. RECKLESS is very highly recommened!	2001-01-31
2120547:US	49693975	R2P5YF1I0Z0JIN	0515129747	705257604	Prince of Charming (Magical Love)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Very highly recommended!	Kate Carmichael no longer believes in magic after her father left on a quest for fairy gold twelve years ago. Her father promised to return for her, but now is presumed dead. Now her guardian Nana has passed away, and the will promising her the Victorian house has gone missing. Adam, Kate's guardian and only living relative, put economics ahead of his grandmother after his father dies. Making money became more important than an aging grandmother, especially after Adam marries. Without the will, Adam inherits the house and immediately dispossess Kate. Kate's loss runs deeper than the simple loss of the property. The house has been the only security in her life since her father's abandonment. <br />When Kate lifts the portrait and peers at the back, her fairy sight picks up on a mysterious name. When she reads the name Robin Goodfellow aloud, a charming, sexy man suddenly appears before her. Two hundred years of banishment into a portrait at the hands of the Queen of the Fae left Robin Goodfellow with only the ability to watch and listen. He's watched Kate grow and mature, and cares for her deeply. Now Kate has a week to move, and must cope with this man with a gift of charm, as well. <br />Robin doesn't stay long wit mortal women, as a rule. But Kate is different. He enjoys her friendship, and is wildly attracted to her Rubenesque figure. Robin's magic, a gift for charm, has always provided whatever he wants or needs, but when he finds himself needing Kate, true magic begins. Of course, the fact that he can't get further than fifty feet away, without magically reappearing at her side, has it's own attraction! <br />This whimsical tale will delight the heart of romance readers who believe in magic. The light humor and depths of passion prove to be quite delightful. Moreover, I find it refreshing for other reasons, as well. Not only does PRINCE OF CHARMING blend fairly lore and marvelous archetypes, but the heroine is quite remarkable-a sexy, tall, full figured woman,to be precise. Watching Kate's metamorphosis into self acceptance and full womanhood is wonderful! This novel is a marvelous read! Very highly recommended.	2001-01-31
2120582:US	49693975	R29I7QDHYDZB8L	0671785885	980408671	Brown-Eyed Girl	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wow! Very highly recommended	Mariah Stewart has quite a talent for mixing romance and suspense into a hot, spine-tingling blend guaranteed to satisfy the most demanding reader. BROWN-EYED GIRL has definitely won a new fan with this reviewer. <br />Seven years ago, Melissa disappeared without a trace. Leah McDevitt hasn't given up on finding her beloved younger sister, despite the lack of information. After her appearance on a program featuring long missing siblings, someone at last responds to Leah's promise of reward. <br />While her cousin Catherine holds the position of editor-in-chief for Trends, the family-owned magazine, Leah's wanderlust and free spirit finds an outlet as the lead of the Features department. When the first letter arrived from convicted serial killer Raymond Lambert, Leah was out of the country. <br />When Leah rushes to the prison where Lambert is held before his execution, she's appalled by the serial killer with the cherubic face. As Lambert tortures her with his words, she decides to leave. However, a cryptic question arrests her departure, when he asks, &quot;Why do you suppose your sister wore brown contact lenses?&quot; In answer, she promises half the reward; the other half due when her sister's body is recovered. <br />Unfortunately, a fellow prisoner murders Lambert before Leah learns the remaining information. The only lead left is the author of the book about the convicted serial killer. Ethan Sanger has his own pain to endure, and Leah will find it very difficult to secure his help. MoreMoreover they delve into Melissa's murder, they will also find that someone else has secrets to keep. <br />While the romance lends BROWN-EYED GIRL a tasty sizzle, the suspenseful tale blew me away. From the first page I was hooked -- right through the surprise ending. My sympathy for the hero and heroine's tragic losses, however, did not override the delight in their blossoming love. Further, while the love story provides interest, it does not overshadow the suspense; instead, the love story and suspense achieve a fascinating balance rarely achieved by most authors. I look forward to reading more of this author's work. Very highly recommended.	2001-01-31
2120787:US	49693975	RDTCSORJPM5M2	0373258682	72259719	Baring It All (Sweet Talkin' Guys)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Very highly recommended	If you missed last year's release of Sandra Chastain's Harlequin Temptation release, BARING IT ALL, call your book seller now and order it. You won't be disappointed!<br />The moment she entered The Palace of Sin, reporter Sunny Clary captures Ryan Malone's attention. Ryan's stunned by his reaction, after all, this kind of reaction should happen to the women in his audience not the performer. Although he quit performing five years ago, tonight's show would mark the end of Lord Sin's career as the most successful stripper in history. Tonight as Lord Sin, Ryan gives his best performance ever and, with the microphone discretely concealed in the candle on her table, to Sunny alone. He intends for her to leave The Palace of Sin aching for desire, just as he aches for her.<br />No one knows Lord Sin's true identity, but if Sunny can reveal the man behind the mask, she'll earn her opportunity for the kind of stories she wants to be reporting. Covering this Valentine's Day charity fund-raiser was not the investigative reporting she wanted for an assignment. Sunny believes in reporting the truth, and has already risked her career once when she refused to back away from political wrongdoing. Now she must reestablish herself in a new city with a new job. And instinct tells her that Ryan Malone can lead her to revealing Lord Sin's identity. Little does she suspect that business tycoon Ryan Malone is Lord Sin.<br />Sandra Chastain creates a hot, sensuous romance that adds sizzle to an evening's reading. Chastain's prose moves with the heat and flavor of the city in which she sets this delectable tale--Atlanta. Those of us who live here will recognize the Peachtree streets, roads, circles and boulevards that ensnarl tourists and add zest to the setting. Very highly recommended.	2001-01-31
2120822:US	49693975	RC95GGWPVQ625	0679763309	251642252	An Unquiet Mind: A Memoir of Moods and Madness	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Excellent resource for anyone dealing with bipolar disorder	Professor of Psychiatry at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine and co-author of the standard medical text, Dr. Kay Redfield Jamison is more than a widely recognized expert in the field of manic-depressive illness; she lives it. In AN UNQUIET MIND, Jamison shares the pain and pleasure of depression and mania in a poignant, honest account of living with mental illness. <br />Manic depression kills tens of thousands of people every year, and profoundly touches thousands more. Jamison describes manic depression as &quot;seductively complicated, a distillation both of what is finest in our natures, and of what is most dangerous.&quot; <br />While biological in origin, manic depression manifests itself as mental illness, undermining the very foundations of one's existence; yet manic depression can also become the impetus of the greatest creative energy. Indeed, Jamison explains that these creative, manic phases that present themselves as seductive, discouraging treatment for fear of loss of energy, inventiveness and insight. Certainly, gentle intensity brings tremendous reward, but out of control it leads to frenetic episodes and eventual insanity. <br />With medication, manic depression is frequently a controllable illness. Despite this fact, Jamison examines her own reluctance to take medication that inhibits one's energy levels and creativity. Further, she examines the process of accepting the illness and the necessity of treatment, particularly from the viewpoint of one that offers help, but does not wish to receive it. <br />Jamison writes with a unique viewpoint, as that of a healer and as a patient. In often times lyrical language, she exposes the world of mental illness complete with the fear and insecurity that accompanies it. In addition, she offers her experience as a message of hope. Despite periods of psychotic episodes, deep depressions, and a suicide attempt, Jamison is a highly successful woman with a life in academia and a full, loving personal life. Ina world filled with books about mental illness, Jamison offers stronger hope, based on fact, than any other author that I have yet encountered. Very highly recommended.	2001-01-31
2120847:US	49693975	R4370ETCIRO8G	0821766937	341637144	After Dark (Zebra romantic suspense)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Highly recommended	In her first romantic suspense novel, Beverly Barton tells the story of Johnny Mack Cahill, a redeemable bad boy in AFTER DARK. Set in the small town of Noble's Crossing, the streets roll up after dark leaving a quiet, sleeping town. Nothing wild goes on -- at least in public. Indeed, Noble's Crossing's secrets go on behind closed doors and mostly after dark.<br />Everyone in town knew that Johnny Mack Cahill was John Graham's illegitimate son, making him Kent Graham's half-brother. Fifteen years ago Kent hated his half-brother with a passion only matched by his determination to marry Lane Noble. When Kent found out about Lane's crush on Johnny Mack, he arranged for his half-brother's murder. Beaten nearly to death by Sheriff Buddy Lawler and his thugs, Johnny Mack was thrown into the cold waters of the Chickasaw River. Only Lane's discovery of his nearly dead body on the river's shore saved his life.<br />Johnny Mack returns to Noble's Crossing when an anonymous letter arrives stating that he has a son. He's stayed away from Noble's Crossing for fifteen years, but learning that he has son and that Lane stands accused of Kent's murder brings him back. Johnny Mack quickly discovers that fourteen year-old Will's life has been formed by lies, one stacked neatly on top of the next.<br />A dying woman's letter to adopted father Kent tore Will's world to shreds, revealing not only his adoption, but that his birth father is none other than Johnny Mack. Kent couldn't forgive the boy for being Johnny Mack's son. Nor could he forgive Lane for orchestrating the adoption of Johnny Mack's child.<br />Johnny Mack can't be scared off. He can't be run off. And he can't be bought off. He doesn't play by the rules and these days he's the one who always wins. Four years of college and eight years of sharing a compassionate man's home had polished Johnny Mack's rough edges, giving him the ability to pass himself off as a gentleman.<br />Edith runs Noble's Crossing, declaring that it isher town, her county and her state. Johnny Mack may be a big shot in Texas, but in Noble's Crossing he's still white trash with money. When her son Kent has been dead for two weeks, Edith persuades the DA to take the case to the grand jury. Further, she demands that the DA get a capital murder indictment against Lane. Edith wants Lane punished for her son's murder, she wants Will protected, and she wants Johnny Mack to learn that she still rules Noble's Crossing.<br />AFTER DARK present a chilling account of small town intrigue. Beverly Barton presents the hidden motivations of each character with precision, creating a twisting plot line that keeps the pages turning. Indeed, the characters are multi-dimensional and realistic while acting in a believable and consistent manner....	2001-01-31
2151511:US	49693975	R2JLN81YAX54L8	0373243642	711321855	Mccaffertys: Thorne (The Mccaffertys)	Books	5	12	15	N	N	a terrific read	Jackson starts this miniseries with a tremendously powerful hook. The plot flows beautifully, piquing the reader's interest and delivering a first rate tale of love. Randi's accident ties all three books together in an originally unique method that both resolves the love story, yet leaves the larger purpose unanswered in THE MCCAFFERTYS: THORNE. I eagerly look forward to the next installment of the series! Highly recommended.	2001-01-05
2151590:US	49693975	R28AD821EN2Y0N	082176733X	458496098	Taming Ben (Bachelors Inc.:) (Zebra Bouquet Romances, 73)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	delightful entertainment!	Ben contracted Sayer and Sons to paint his living room, but the poor quality work and the painters drinking on the job lead to his complaining to the owner of the company. Little did he suspect the owner of Sayer and Sons is a woman. Nor does he realize that the forthright, intriguing woman in front of him is a woman from his past. <br />Mackenzie finds herself infuriated. Ben broke her heart twenty years ago, and didn't even remember her. She had been too tall, too fat and too quite to garner the attention of a jock like him. So his attraction now, while not unwanted, still disconcerts her. Granted, Mackenzie's thinner, blonder, and wears contacts, but she's never let go of the fat girl within. Besides, Ben turned her down for the prom. He's nothing but a playboy now, and she's determined that either she's not going to play, or she's going to play for keeps. <br />TAMING BEN provides delightful entertainment. Colleen Faulkner tackles difficult issues within the bounds of traditional, sensual romance. Ben's bewilderment sharply contrasts Mackenzie's frustration, humorously contrasting male and female viewpoints, resulting in a pleasing romance. This warm, funny romance is a definite keeper. Very highly recommended.	2001-01-05
2151710:US	49693975	R24EL83Z1SUG3A	0373243650	287846780	The Cowboy's Gift-Wrapped Bride (Silhouette Special Edition No. 1365) (A Ranching Family series)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	sexy, lively read	During one of the worst blizzards Wyoming has ever seen, Matt McDermot stops alongside a small, beige sedan to finds a woman with her head bloody against the windshield. When she comes to, Jenn Johnson only knows her name from the driver's license presented by her rescuer, yet she seems to inexplicably know the identity of all of the members of the McDermot's family.<br />In the wrong hands, the theme of amnesia threatens to grow dangerously tired as romance authors frequently use is as a plot devise. In the hands of Victoria Pade, however, this theme takes on a new dimension as she teases the reader with selective information and the growing heat between the heroine and hero. THE COWBOY'S GIFT-WRAPPED BRIDE is a sexy, lively read perfect to keep the blood hot on a cold winter afternoon. Highly recommended.	2001-01-05
2151851:US	49693975	R1MC1Q2MD7GH64	0373243685	209899817	Expectant Bride-To-Be (Here Comes The Brides) (Silhouette Special Edition, No 1368)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Warm, humorous, and delightful	Nikki Benjamin wraps up the Here Comes the Bride series with this heart warming tale in EXPECTANT BRIDE-TO-BE.<br />Abby Summers returns to her hometown to spend Christmas with her mother and grandparents. Amazingly, her mother actually stuck around until the afternoon of Christmas day, until her customary restlessness sent her off in quest of greener pastures. Unfortunately, this time Larissa got in the car with the wrong man, and an accident claimed her life. Following the funeral, Abby found herself at the park, contemplating her mother's wild life choices. There she encounters her childhood sweetheart, Jack Randall.<br />Jack had been the star quarterback of the high school football team and son of the wealthy Randall family. Four years after the death of his wife, he finds himself in the park reflecting on his looses. But those looses are at last put aside when he sees Abby.<br />Jack later attempts to make things right lead to a &quot;pretend&quot; engagement and the opening of hearts in this delightful romance. EXPECTANT BRIDE-TO-BE ties together all the loose ends of the previous two novels, yet it stands alone as an excellent read. Warm, humorous, and delightful, I highly recommend it!	2001-01-05
2151893:US	49693975	RCO69LBIV3ALE	0373243669	278836486	Lara'S Lover (Rumor Has It...)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	a worthwhile read	I confess to not enjoying LARA'S LOVER nearly as much as the first book of the miniseries. Richard's plot line feels overblown, and crosses from something entertaining into reading soap opera. I'm from just the spot in Arkansas that the fictional town Lewiston is located. While Richards definitely captures the small town mentality, the good ol' boy system, and gossip with cleverness, sometimes passages of truth don't blend well in a fictional context. She was far more successful handling both plot and gossip, reigning in before going overboard, with SOPHIE'S SCANDAL, which I thoroughly enjoyed. Nevertheless, LARA'S LOVER is worth perusing, if only because it's one of the rare romances daring enough to make the hero an ex-con. And I can't wait to read the third piece of this miniseries. Recommended.	2001-01-05
2152005:US	49693975	R17DPKV2VARXML	0962368814	606185979	The Sons of Lazarus	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wow! Stunning!	Civil Warfields park offers plenty of ways for tourists to view the war between the states. More than reenactment, unbeknownst to the public, the wounds and causalities are real. When a corporal shouts to the pickup that mike that the wounds are real, remote security personnel drown out his words. The true purpose, however, of Civil Warfields is not the accurate representation of the War Between the States, nor financial; indeed, the true purpose of the park is to test a new devise on humans. A tiny implant nestled in the abdomen emits chemicals to keep the wounded in stasis until regeneration can be triggered.<br />The Confederate Commanding General Calvin Sutton is a megalomaniac, intent upon the South's victory in the reenactment of the Civil War. Recruitment for Civil Warfields was done indirectly. Men who had need of redemption, money, a second chance at life, or who crave dangerous thrills were put through rigorous testing. Then they were given a &quot;pill&quot; that was actually an implant during orientation; this implant can snatch them away from death. He promises tremendous rewards to the men who survive, but doesn't tell them of those men whose implants are beyond recovery range.<br />Carson creates a gristly novel that holds the reader's attention rapt. It's impossible to put the novel down as the action escalates, sweeping the reader into a world that is all too real. Combining the futuristic aspects with the historical accuracy, the novel provides not only excellent entertainment, but is a telling comment regarding the violence found within our society where reports of gang violence and video games that become &quot;realer and realer&quot; make us immune to death. With remarkable clarity and vision, Carson creates a must read novel that no one should miss. Very highly recommended.	2001-01-05
2152099:US	49693975	R3IWAKGDFEFK68	0373243677	855414334	Mother In A Moment	Books	5	8	9	N	N	charmed by five kids	If Garrett Cullem refuses to take custody of his deceased sister's five children, they will immediately be placed in foster care until their grandfather can be reached. Garrett has never been married, nor does he have children, believing he's incapable of love, so he scarcely knows what to do with his new family of Regan, age four, Reid age three, and the triplets at age nine months. <br />As the day care worker that witnessed the accident stands before him, Garrett finds not only a new family, but also an odd attraction to the woman who brings the children to him. When he convinces Darby to give up her day care job and accept the position as nanny to the fearsome five, he soon realizes she's running from her past.<br />MOTHER IN A MOMENT proves remarkable with its inclusion of five children. Rarely do authors capture the flavor and nuance appropriate to young children. While I doubt anyone would be able to maintain Darby's energy levels for long, the genre is, after all, fiction. Therefore, despite her never ending energy that copes with five children and still manages to be sexy and flirtatious, I can't help being charmed by the children and entranced by the possibility of love. The characters are both fierce and vulnerable, making MOTHER IN A MOMENT in a terrific read. Highly recommended.	2001-01-05
2152255:US	49693975	R29GOYDKX7RCCU	0505522101	662511653	Somewhere My Love (Futuristic Romance)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	fantastic book!	Sha'Nara has been having mysterious, seductive dreams. However, she does not want a man in her life, despite the compelling dreams. She has &quot;her career, her goals, and her father's expectations to keep her busy.&quot; <br />The day she was kidnapped should have been the longest, most boring day of her life. The assignment was to accompany the Director's General's daughter Jera to her wedding on another planet. By the time the women realized they had been kidnapped, they were far from their original destination. <br />Karen Fox weaves a fascinating tale of complexity and originality in SOMEWHERE MY LOVE. Although billed as a futuristic romance, it is considerably more than the typical genre romance. Fox brings an intriguing science fiction background to the tale, creating a powerful backdrop for the fast paced plot. Further characters are all vividly portrayed, drawing the reader deeply into the story. Very highly recommended.	2001-01-05
2152298:US	49693975	R3I9AEH93EWI4	0966602145	652749482	Full Moon-Bloody Moon	Books	5	4	4	N	N	a marvelous combination of mystery, fantasy, and horror	S. D. Tooley affectionately refers to her alter ego, Lee Driver, as her dark side. Dark side certainly describes the evil that walks the streets of Cedar Points, and the imagination of the author who creates such horror. With a knack for the unusual, Driver again creates a masterpiece of the macabre and the fantastic in FULL MOON_BLOODY MOON. Her secondary characters are fully realized creations of originality reflecting the fantastic elements of the story. This skillful author continues to fulfill my exceptions for the unexpected, and I look forward to the next. As an aside, while I keep hoping Chase and Sara get together, the delightful dodging of the issue certainly helps to add tension to the novel. Very highly recommended!	2001-01-05
2152512:US	49693975	R1LVL54SREDIHX	0821767313	698176903	The First Time: The Mounties (Ballad Romances)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	delightfully fresh romance	In the new series called The Mounties from Kathryn Fox, THE FIRST TIME is set in 1874 in the Canadian wilderness. The miniseries will span the stories of three men who are loyal, brave and true. They will fight for justice, whatever the cost to themselves or their hearts. In this first novel, a physician turned Northwest Mounted Police will be out to capture a bootlegger's heart. <br />THE FIRST TIME is a delightfully fresh romance that will fascinate romance lovers who enjoy strong, forceful women who question the social amenities of civilization. While Maggie's brazen comments seem a bit obtuse at times, her spirit and energy overcome her flaws. Indeed, a lighter hand would make her character a bit more convincing, yet the Canadian background and the depth of Colin's passion bring this romance a tingle and tension that rescues THE FIRST TIME from the stereotyped conventions often found in the romantic genre. Recommended.	2001-01-05
2179625:US	49693975	R3I6YPXHR6A1SI	0312975651	251671300	Our Husband	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Highly recommended by WordWeaving	Raymond Carmichael married three women living in three different states. He spent every other weekend with his socialite wife Beatrix, a woman ten years older than himself. The other weekends belonged to his lovely thirty-five-year-old wife, small town doctor Natalie. During the week Raymond resided with stripper Ruby in their trailer. <br />Three women betrayed by one man. Each left financially bereft when they converge on the hospital following Ray's car accident and he dies of a heart attack. Beatrix stands to loose her social standing and the one thing she always counted on even during Ray's frequent absences, her family's money. Natalie not only finds herself financially devastated, but risks bankruptcy when gossip ensures the loss of her private practice. Ruby faces pregnancy alone and raising her child alone.<br />Readers of genre romance will recognize Stephanie Bond's fun loving, quirky voice shining through with her stylistic humor. OUR HUSBAND, however, is more than a romance; indeed, it includes a love story in the subplot thereby earning its classification on the binding. But OUR HUSBAND demonstrates Bond's extraordinary narrative depth as she captures the shifting voices of three women. Highly recommended.	2000-12-11
2179626:US	49693975	R3AHUW5UDQFMFH	0373709552	612631876	Baby Business: 9 Months Later (Harlequin Superromance No. 955)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent!	The intrepid Macy will do anything to save her daughter's life. Her daughter Haley has cancer, and the only chance of saving the five-year-old's life means raising enough money to pay for a bone marrow transplant. Despite her misgivings, Macy agrees to be the surrogate mother to Thad's child. Sadly, if the bone marrow transplant doesn't work, she won't loose one child but two, because she'll be expected to relinquish the baby right on the heels of loosing Haley.<br />BABY BUSINESS is an entertaining contemporary romance confronting some of life's most tangled issues. Macy is willing to pay the highest form of payment; that is, giving Thad one baby to save another. Having lost my own loved one to leukemia, I'm impressed with Novak's handling of Haley's disease, confronting it realistically and lending the child joy even in the midst of great pain. Novak scores high marks with this extraordinary and poignant reading experience.	2000-12-11
2179649:US	49693975	R36DGNWK95JPCH	0821767356	68259680	Hearts At Risk (Zebra Bouquet Romances)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Highly recommended by WordWeaving	It will take more than a letter from a pushy attorney to get April Fairchild off of Tom McKittrick's estate. She signed a lease with his grandfather giving her years longer; besides, she has no where else to go. The caretaker's cottage and the surrounding gardens have become home over the last six years and also is the only place she has ever found peace. This place also provides April's livelihood. Her roses are prizewinners, and she sells sachets and potpourri at the local farmer's market.<br />Suzanne Barrett has a flair for story telling, gently weaving her romantic plot with a healthy dose of conflict and attraction. The vivid characterizations draw the reader into the story; to the point you can smell the lavender and see the dirt caked on Tom's shoes. Even her secondary characters are vividly fun, especially the long hair physics teacher who inspires jealously in Tom's unwilling heart. HEART AT RISK is a delightful afternoon's read; I highly recommend it.	2000-12-11
2179768:US	49693975	R2AL92OEEQPTMG	0373243618	764021541	Baby Of Convenience (Stork Express) (Special Edition, 1361)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very highly recommended by WordWeaving	Laura Michaels believes the wealthy are &quot;a breed unto themselves. Contemptuous, self-indulgent. Cruel. But when her mama cat Maggie takes up residence in her neighbor's wine cellar, she has no choice to knock at the door, baby on hip, to reclaim her erring beast. <br />The richest, most powerful man in town, Royce Burton owns and operates Burton Enterprises. When he learns of Laura's living conditions--unexpected unemployment, living with a friend in crowded trailer, escalating lawyer fees and potential bankruptcy--he can't help feeling compassion. <br />Any book with a baby, a mama cat, and five kittens is a sure fire hit with this reviewer. It takes great courage to track that many characters, especially when the author gives each kitten their own roguish personality! Further, Whitney presents credible, fun characters with flair, carefully balancing Laura's misgivings of those who are wealthy with Royce's fears of losing power and status. Consequently, BABY OF CONVENIENCE is a keeper, with enough laughs to keep the most jaded romance reader happy.	2000-12-11
2180143:US	49693975	R2N9XKZ4U9IJ10	0373271042	502759665	Her Secret Weapon (Silhouette Intimate Moments #1034) (A Year of Loving Dangerously)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Highly recommended by WordWeaving.com	When his eyes focused on her, Callie Severin frozen, even when her instincts instructed her to run. Burke Lonigan's gaze held her hypnotized. Soon she found herself at his table, with the enduring questions asked if she'd like to be his friend, if only for the night. The night of searing passion and naked vulnerability resulted in a child she named Seamus, after Burke's father.<br />Callie had refused to go to Burke and tell him that he was a father. He'd been drunk that night, and hadn't even known her name. On the other hand, she was cold sober, and willing to take full responsibility for her actions. Yet she did apply for, and accept, the job as a personal assistant when the position came open, in order to learn more about the man who fathered her baby. Callie hoped the rumors that he was as illegal arms dealer were false. She was sadly mistaken. Or was she?<br />Through this masterful author's pen, an improbable story weaves its way into the reader's heart, becoming a plausible tale of romance and danger. All of the characters are vibrant, as even the child and cousin become interwoven into the tapestry of intrigue. Genre fiction at its best, HER SECRET WEAPON provides excellent escapist fiction for the romance lover. Highly recommended.	2000-12-11
2180539:US	49693975	R16YO0W9JZ53KP	0373243596	148687016	Sophie'S Scandal (Rumor Has It...) (Special Edition, 1359)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Highly recommended by WordWeaving.com	According to all the rumors, Sophie Delaney slept around and that was the reason Reed Hardisty asked her out. The rumors were wrong. Certainly, she gave in to Reed easily enough on their third date. But she also said that she loved him. She also said she'd never regret what they had done. It was a statment they both would think about over the following seventeen years.<br />Donovan hadn't protected his little sister Sophie from their father's flying fists, she would have been the one dead on the floor. When Hutch Delaney realized his sixteen year old daughter would not have an abortion, but planned to have her baby, he intended his fists to force a miscarriage. A moment's decision to protect his little sister changed both of their lives forever. Donovan insisted on taking the blame and serving the jail time for their father's death. He also insisted that Sophie take the money provided by Reed's father to start a new life for herself and the baby somewhere else. <br />Sophie's Scandal by Penny Richards is an extraoridinarly insightful account of lost love and hidden secrets. With a deft pen, Richards creates memorable characters and a strong plot line. In addition, Richards creates a wonderful cast of secondary characters that we will see more of. Highly recommended.	2000-12-11
2180780:US	49693975	R2V8BWUAK3JC69	0373243626	616795601	Just Eight Months Old... (Special Edition)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very highly recommended by WordWeaving.com	Even when Hannah McGee was a NYC police officer, she'd never liked carrying a revolver. As a bounty hunter, Hannah only carries a stun gun she calls The Equalizer and a small canister of pepper spray tucked inside her waistband. Now she plans to trade her bounty hunter title for that of a private investigator; that is, until her boss persuades her to take one more case as a personal favor to him. Unfortunately, that last job requires working with Chad Hogan, the man who walked out of her life fifteen months ago without a second glance. The man she loved and wanted to marry. The man who, unknowingly, is the father of her eight month old child, Bonnie.<br />Tori Carrington is actually the psedudonym of husand-and-wife writing team Lori and Tony Karayianni, writers of extraordinary talent that blend sophisticated prose and fast paced action. They have an unusual ability of capturing the reader's heart and imagination with their depth of plot line and vivid characterization. Indeed, In JUST EIGHT MONTHS OLD, Tori Carrington's creative energy and engaging story line most heartily satisfy the romance reader's desire for a fullfilling reading experience. Very highly recommended.	2000-12-11
2447409:US	49693975	R6XIHKZQXFQ7C	0821763466	137736653	Golden Fire	Books	5	5	5	N	N	WordWeaving loves Golden Fire	After reading the terrific novels DESTINY'S LADY and FOREVER AND BEYOND by Susan Grace, this reviewer sought out the previously released GOLDEN FIRE. Released before the tales of the pirate Lady Cat, GOLDEN FIRE tells the  story of Catherine's son James and the lady whom the people of India call  Golden Fire. My effort was well rewarded with this marvelous tale in which  east meets west in a clash of culture and mysticism.<br />Born in India,  Miranda Collins loves India. With an empathic gift that sets her apart from  everyone, she believes she will only find acceptance in a land steeped in  mysticism and never plans to return to her father's birth land. But when  her father is murdered and her own life repeatedly threatened, she finds  herself aboard Lord James Grayson's ship, and married to the man, though  she knows little about him.<br />Theirs is a marriage of convenience, meant to  save Randy from a madman and a murder as well as to uncover the identity of  her stalker. Neither partner wants to admit the depth of their feelings, or  their hopes for this arranged union. With complex plotting and intricate  details, GOLDEN FIRE moves from the exotic lands of India to the deceitful  drawing rooms of England, weaving a rich tapestry of intrigue and love. As  danger continues to persue Randy, only James' steadfast love will save her  life, not once, but three times as prophesied.<br />Susan Grace possesses an  astonishing talent for blending murder, history and romance in a mix  uniquely her own. With the very grace and beauty of a master, Grace creates  a delightfully vivacious tale that will satisfy the historical romance fan  even while creating an appetite for more. This reviewer has fallen in love  with her powerful heroines and the heroes that love them, and eagerly  awaits more unorthodox tales of adventure from this talented author.	2000-06-02
