4243:US	50592435	R16NRZU30GJMCO	0465046754	692787574	The Republican War on Science	Books	4	15	86	N	N	Darwinian pseudo-science	I found this to be an eloquent but flawed indictment of the ways in which conservatives are doing an endrun around science to promote their various agendas. But as a science supporter, but a Darwin critic, I was a little alarmed by the bad advice the author received from the very peer review bodies he promotes. The problem is that, for example, global warming, about which the book is excellent, and evolution, the most confusing of the issues, are not really in the same category. We can demand science on the issue of global warming, and expose conservative fraud, but if we demand science on evolution, then we should subject the current reign of Darwinian theory to scrutiny, there to find that, as theory, its scientific status is open to question. The behavior of creationists is a very distracting noise here, because it drives science defenders further into dogma, and into a hole. The author shows how relying on the standard sources of science advice, like the NCSE, will simply fill your head with the Darwinian boilerplate syndrome, which, whatever else their failings, the rightwing critics are well aware of. Having studied Darwinian theory carefully from the suppressed science critics they realize that they can trump the wrongly educated Dawkins/science generation. It seemed impossible ten years ago, now it's happening. Time to wake up on Darwin's theory, which means accepting the reality of evolution, but looking critically on the theory of natural selection. Science journalists ought to learn to be skeptical of the failed peer review system in biology and evolution. It's going to be the undoing of science, and one dreads to think what the next ten years will bring.<br /><br />Beyond that, many of the other issues raised make for an insightful expose, it is a pity the author is suckered into the Darwin trap.	2005-10-11
5405:US	50592435	R38YGE5SPE8ROB	0393035158	2927274	The End of Faith: Religion, Terror, and the Future of Reason	Books	5	7	20	N	N	Ambiguity of 'faith'	Given the inertia of faith theology it is an uphill road to even discuss, let alone challenge, the 'faith myths' that are really exploitations of human belief psychology. Doctrinal or dogmatic injunctions to have faith cripple the rational powers of those who are just on the threshold of 'true religion/philosophy' in the mechanization of thought processes. This gets called 'religion' or the 'sacred'. So this nervy challenge to the whole game is quite on the ball, and in the current cultural/political atmosphere courageously to the point. That said, the discourses of 'faith' have a number of dimensions, and a simple change of terminology can help where genuine issues of faith have a philosophical, if not dogmatic, significance. And it should be pointed out in passing that Mr. Harris' readers might be fairly charged with a new kind of faith, in the Darwinian religion, this not being the place to go into that. Faith is not only an issue of divinity, but potentially also of questions of 'soul' or 'free will', in the Kantian perspective. There the question of what constitutes 'self' or 'moral agency' is confronted by the noumenal and the limits of our representations, likely to condemn us to a platonic cave of reduced self-consciousness. There the issue of faith in something more than oneself can arise as challenge to 'know oneself'. But of course the misuse of the term 'faith' in such a context is all too likely, and one should simply proceed to a new conceptual recasting: one should consider one's 'hunch' (not faith) as to a 'deeper self' more than mere imagination, proceeding with a dialectially skeptical 'faith' that this deeper reality might exist at one's psychological limits. There are many such issues in that vein, which point to original and lost meanings of 'faith', a term that deserves Mr. Harris' challenges, and which should be retired from discourse, short of suffering the tortoise effect of excessively dumbed down materialistic metaphysics.	2005-10-11
6555:US	50592435	R3NKBCPFB464XY	0700613900	607046461	Breach of Trust: How the Warren Commission Failed the Nation And Why	Books	5	53	59	N	N	Two conspiracies	Too many books on the JFK assassination get sidetracked by the many false leads there to tempt sober analysis. This remarkable addition to the literature is unique for its restraint, refusal to indulge in speculation, and careful focus on what can be documented, and no more. There were really two conspiracies, that of the Warren commision, and the conspiracy they stumbled on half-consciously but refused to pursue. Since their agenda was fixed in advance, making the 'lone nut' interpretation a foregone conclusion, the whole investigation was bogus. Many previous writers have gotten this far and confused this with the indirect, but very strong evidence of the other conspiracy. But as the author notes there is no smoking gun, only the many discrepancies in the evidence, and the transparnt deceptions in the way the initial investigation was carried out. The author's slow but steady pursuit of the basic deception of the Commission is convincing and manages to avoid the traps that have claimed too many previous efforts in this field. Everytime you think this field has reached its limits another book reopens the whole can of worms. Well done.	2005-10-10
40934:US	50592435	R3L0O9GJJ8XPOM	076792066X	457307841	The Universe in a Single Atom: The Convergence of Science and Spirituality	Books	5	7	26	N	N	Buddhism, Science and Darwinism	This is a compelling discussion of Buddhism and Science by the Dalai Lama, with some cogent insights on quantum mechanics, cosmology, and evolution. Although under suspicion of being a PR front for stealth Lamaism and its hidden agendas, making it problematical whether he says what he means, or means what he says, the Dalai Lama presents an engaging appreciation of modern science, and his encounters with figures like David Bohm, and Karl Popper.<br /><br />But Buddhism has always been far more intelligent in its discourses than the monotheistic religions, and its reserve toward metaphysical speculation strongly resembles and anticipates closely the thinking of Kant. But it's been said philosophy destroyed Buddhism, although the charge is unfair to the great legacy of Buddhist thought, as philosophy without apology, but it can be a distraction from its exploration of consciousness. And yet the tendency to find a connection between doctrines of the Void and modern physics wishes to collate entirely different discourses of reason. Perhaps there is something to it, but the notion of the Void is as much the gateway to a shadowy realm where all is not well in the great decline and sprawl of the Sangha. It is in any case quite pointless to fully judge Buddhism on the basis of what it says, when what it does can be done without words, or philosophies. A good example is the great dialectic over `anatta' and `atman' and the attempts by some to see this as a kind of Humean anticipation, or a means to collate the reductionist view of self in science with the teachings of Gautama. In fact, beyond the words, the Kantian antinomy on self stands out here in a classic instance, and the deeper unity of Upanishadism and Buddhism is closer to the truth.<br /><br />The Dalai Lama worries in the introduction about science being the `killer' of religion. That's mostly a fantasy in the minds of scientists themselves. But the current popularity of Buddhism should not blind us to the misleading character of populist dharma, and this is the generation that has exposed the dark side of the force, occult crime, voodoo fascism, and the hidden assault on modernity and freedom. Buddhism has been its own worst enemy. Minds trained in reductionist science betray a psychology totally impoverished, that leaves its adherents sitting ducks in the guru wars, and theosophical shenanigans, of the current Old Age movement masquerading as a New Age movement. If science wishes to inaugurate the real `new age', it needs to do better than it is doing currently.<br /><br />The science gang just doesn't get it. Thus, despite this more than ample appreciation here of science, it is still short of bowing and scraping, and already the groupie science gang is after the Lama, as M. Shermer of the Skeptics, licks his chops over one quote, \\"If scientific analysis were conclusively to demonstrate certain claims in Buddhism to be false, then we must accept the findings of science and abandon those claims,\\" he writes. It won't work. Shall Buddhists abandon insights into reincarnation, however confused and too often decayed, because monistic reductionists play pope on the issue? No, they won't.<br /><br />Next we have George Johnson from the Times, \\"Though he professes to accept evolutionary theory, he recoils at one of its most basic tenets: that the mutations that provide the raw material for natural selection occur at random. Look deeply enough, he suggests, and the randomness will turn out to be complexity in disguise - \\"hidden causality,\\" the Buddha's smile. There you have it, Eastern religion's version of intelligent design. He also opposes physical explanations for consciousness, invoking instead the existence of some kind of irreducible mind stuff, an idea rejected long ago by mainstream science.\\"<br /><br />In fact, as noted in the book, the Dalai Lama describes befriending Francisco Varela, at the fount of Postdarwinian complexity theory, as he moves to found an institute inIndia for dialogue on issues of religion and science. It seems the Dalai Lama is better informed than the brainwashed victims of current Darwin propaganda. Mr. Johnson, associated with S. Kauffman's At Home in the Universe, if not the ghostwriter, must have done more than play human spellchecker, and surely be aware of precisely the type of criticism the Dalai Lama quite justifiably brings from the scientific critics of Darwinism. So, after his handshaking with science, he finds Darwinian natural selection to be lacking as Science. Scientists, it seems, will be the last to know, a severe failing in those proclaiming themselves the arbiters of all knowledge.<br /><br />Although theories of consciousness, let alone its evolution, produced by New Age thinkers tend to excess, inviting the scorn of those committed to hard science, the fact remains that the current scientific obsession with the most reductionist version of brain-mind issues is an equal and opposite extreme, the eternal Cartesian muddle of the human mind. Science has not liberated us from our subjection to that enigma. And it is remarkable also that despite the depth of its psychological explorations, the legacy of enlightened Buddhas has shown no decided insight into the nature of evolution, even as the New Age versions of spiritual evolution confuse the usage of the term. The reason is perhaps visible in the data of the Axial Age, where Buddhism and monotheism, and indeed science, emerge in parallel. That should tell us there is a something deeper than the forms of religion, about which we should hope to enquire in some new science of the future.ue on issues of religion and science. It seems the Dalai Lama is better informed than the brainwashed victims of current Darwin propaganda. Mr. Johnson, associated with S. Kauffman's At Home in the Universe, if not the ghostwriter, must have done more than play human spellchecker, and surely be aware of precisely the type of criticism the Dalai Lama quite justifiably brings from the scientific critics of Darwinism. So, after his handshaking with science, he finds Darwinian natural selection to be lacking as Science. Scientists, it seems, will be the last to know, a severe failing in those proclaiming themselves the arbiters of all knowledge.  <br />Although theories of consciousness, let alone its evolution, produced by New Age thinkers tend to excess, inviting the scorn of those committed to hard science, the fact remains that the current scientific obsession with the most reductionist version of brain-mind issues is an equal and opposite extreme, the eternal Cartesian muddle of the human mind. Science has not liberated us from our subjection to that enigma. And it is remarkable also that despite the depth of its psychological explorations, the legacy of enlightened Buddhas has shown no decided insight into the nature of evolution, even as the New Age versions of spiritual evolution confuse the usage of the term. The reason is perhaps visible in the data of the Axial Age, where Buddhism and monotheism, and indeed science, emerge in parallel. That should tell us there is a something deeper than the forms of religion, about which we should hope to enquire in some new science of the future.     <br /> <br />	2005-09-21
50597:US	50592435	R1EH2HUWQSSN6W	1582432805	197806267	The Breaking Point: Hemingway, Dos Passos, and the Murder of Jose Robles	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Idealism in the vise of Stalinism/Fascism	Although perhaps treading on the corns of some by its directness in giving the 'behind the scenes' of the Spanish Civil War, this account of it, braided with the bios of Dos Passos and Hemingway, is compellingly frank and makes clear the way idealism turned into entanglement. Zeroing in on the way two novelists experienced the conflict effectively penetrates the labyrinth of mystifications and corrects the record on the abonimable treatment of Dos Passos who was sacrificed on the altar of Stalinist cynicism. At a critical point in an important history, audacious slimeballs and vipers appear out of the woodwork pursuing their obscure agendas. Although a minor cameo appearance by Orwell is all the narrative permits, his transformation during the Civil War becomes clear.<br /><br />Quite an exciting read, no doubt not the final view, but the tale is better than fiction.	2005-09-16
50635:US	50592435	R3NWG7IAD4187S	0520206894	969453681	Emerson: The Mind on Fire (Centennial Books)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Perennial Philosophy in the Key of Americana	Robust account of one of the seminal figures of early America, one attempting the creation of an indigenous culture cast in a more universal mode than that of the provincial Christianity of his roots. The courage to give up his secure life as a minister for the uncertainties of exploration and creative renewal marks Emerson's trail through a pioneer's psychological American wilderntess, to touch on and integrate everything from the post-Kantians, to the Buddhists/Hindus to the Persians and Sufis. That Emerson evolved into a near firebrand abolitionist is an aspect of his life unsufficiently told, and this part of his later career runs clear in this book. All in all, a first rate pioneer story of another kind.	2005-09-16
85008:US	50592435	R11PD08QJADNQ	046503828X	501807553	A Different Universe: Reinventing Physics from the Bottom Down	Books	5	11	21	N	N	Emergence	One of the paradoxes of current science is the way it gets more and more brilliant about one aspect of reality, but leaves mostly everything out. Then that part is used to bludgeon everyone else into submission to a limited perspective that makes no sense of other fields. This limited vision is especially evident in biology as the enigma of life stands out as somehow an anomaly (?!), and yet it is the main event. The author's effort to give a lift to current suspicions/speculations about emergent phenomena hopefully is a bellwether for a turning point in science beyond the legacy of reductionism. He also takes a potshot at the current reign of Darwin's 'antitheory' that might be helpful in the current frenzy of the Darwin debate.	2005-08-29
91812:US	50592435	R1QYGDX4E9UQF6	0375508651	766707835	The First Emancipator: The Forgotten Story of Robert Carter, the Founding Father Who Freed His Slaves	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Slaveholder as abolitionist	American history has a series of standard excuses for the delay in emancipation, but this fascinating account of Robert Carter shows up that myth for what it is. Nothing prevented the founding fathers from extricating themselves from their entanglement in slavery. Stories of the heroes of the American Revolution are too often forced to package them in glory, but without the need for that strategy the story of Carter's time and experiences spotlights what it was really like for planters and their slave holdings, a story with some vivid and grim details. Strangest of all is the way one of the true heroes of abolition has been entirely forgotten. Hopefully this work will make Carter's life and legacy better known.	2005-08-25
98834:US	50592435	R29R9J7CV8KGND	1893554961	196878441	Red Star Over Hollywood: The Film Colonys Long Romance with the Left	Books	4	7	30	N	N	Conservative rewrite, but pointedly interesting	This book touches on one of the touchiest and nerve-wracked controversies of the last sixty years. Precisely because of a tendency to close ranks around the defense of semi-myths one needs to zero in from two angles. Here we get the clear effort to indulge in what many would think revisionist propaganda. But despite an obvious bias built in to the account, the tale told is of interest from the conservative angle and sticks to the parts everyone should know, but might not, after the shouting matches over McCarthyism. I really think this book provokes the need for still another book to correct the correction, but in the meantime the information is interesting enough to be quite worth reading. Conservatives get fainting spells about commies in the movie business, but you can read around the lurid conservative passages (not so bad) for some useful corrections of the record, and no doubt much left out.	2005-08-22
98966:US	50592435	R2LZ85FK4S26YC	1585424269	12361462	How America Lost Iraq	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Lost opportunities	This short impressionistic account of Iraq and the war seems to close the case on a bungled job. As the United States went to war amidst a massive protest movement, the appearance of imperialistic motive seemed apparent to most. But as the author tells it, he arrived in Iraq to find many relieved to see the American miliatry shuck off the burdern of Saddam. Thence, from this window of opportunity we see the rapid progression to its opposite, and the swift disillusion of Iraquis with the leaden American initiative, obviously unable from the beginning to keep its crypto-imperialistic obsessions in tow. The result is the now dismal endgame of what might have actually given substance to the initial rhetoric of liberators.	2005-08-22
119649:US	50592435	R1AX7OYUETTSDT	0312335873	156956875	Who Murdered Chaucer? A Medieval Mystery	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Poor Richard's Chronicle	Although the central thesis of the book is completely up in the air, the resulting historical portrait that emerges of the period of Chaucer in the reign of Richard II makes this book very good reading.  The result is an almost revisionist look behind the standard accounts which omit the anomlies hidden in Chaucer's sudden disappearance from the record. One tends to do a Shakespearean plug-in here, with the plays on Richard and Henry IV somehow stealing the show. But the portrait here of Henry is a disconcerting expose of his propaganda successfully rewriting history. Compelling read, and a nicely done book.	2005-08-10
120814:US	50592435	R2TV3E2GWP0AIX	1403968950	844266103	Enlightening the World: Encyclopedia, The Book That Changed the Course of History	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Before the Wikipedia...	At a time when postmodern critiques of the Enlightenment downplay its significance it is useful to look at the phenomenon beyond abstraction in its particulars and vivid detail. Here the history of Diderot and his Encyclopedia brings the moment to life, and is a reminder of what the philosophes wrought in world still dominated by Church and King. The immense task of the work against the perils of censorship is close to a working miracle, and the tribulations of Diderot from the first lettre du cachet that put him in Vincennes prison are heroic. Diderot's dissatisfaction with his labors seem irrelevant now since this world-historical contribution to the Information Revolution is his great legacy.	2005-08-10
128121:US	50592435	R21U0NA5STCK5R	080507791X	885396602	Becoming Justice Blackmun: Harry Blackmun's Supreme Court Journey	Books	5	1	6	N	N	Greenhouse effects	This short but to the point account of Justice Blackmun gives a good cameo of his evolution into a liberal judge along with some detail of the murky workings of the Supreme Court, people behind the public scripts. One of the oddities of the tale is the long prior friendship of Burger and Blackmun, with their slow but inevitable falling out in the years on the bench. I take it that the Greenhouse effect, amply in evidence it seems with Blackmun, is named after the author, unless there is some other Greenhouse I am not aware of. Appointed by Nixon but never the one devoutly conspired to conservatize the court, Blackmun grows into his real legal persona and leaves his starting point in the dust, becoming associated with his decision on Roe versus Wade, and enduring hate mail, and worse. That's a big hint for unnamed persons about to enter the Court from the political fray.	2005-08-05
131000:US	50592435	R2HFZR5ZRJXML1	1590170377	288397045	Shelley: The Pursuit (New York Review Books)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Unacknowledged legislators	After reading Miranda Seymour's biography of Mary Shelley  I looked around for an account of P. B. Shelley and found this excellent biography of the poet. The whole generation and family from Mary Wollstonecraft onwards makes a dynastic epic, and a good history of the social politics of a radical generation living through the Restoration. There the ethereal Shelley myth is corrected by a portrait of a radical who had the courage and will to attempt to extract himself form his aristocratic family and class to pursue a radical dream in the unforgiving world of the reactionary wake of the French Revolution. Literary portraits of Shelley still suffer the fate of the poet's work after his death when his reputation was crippled by the conservative age against he revolted. It reminds one of the fate of the Sixties in the minds of the (current) powers that be. It is significant, and mostly forgotten, that the early Queen Mab that so shocked the establishments of the times passed into the bloodstream of the left via the radical underground press, thence to influence the early labor movements and Chartists. Meanwhile the image of Shelley was sanctified by several packs of lies as the quality of genius forced its way into anthological immortality.	2005-08-04
131007:US	50592435	R1IS87MSW41SX4	0802139485	92284093	Mary Shelley	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A radical generation	After reading _Vindication_, the recent biography of Mary Wollstonecraft, the flow of the greater tale naturally leads to the lives of Godwin, his/her daughter and Shelley, and this account of the life of Wollstonecraft's daughter makes excellent continued reading, in the process giving a snapshot of the extraordinary dual careers of the Romantic poet and authoress of Frankenstein. Subjects now seen through the lenses of literary discourse also make a good study of the radical generation suffering the Restoration and its reactionary politics. Indeed the book is a study in class, and associated struggles, especially Shelley's voluntary abandonment of his aristocratic background. The end of Mary Shelley's life is one of the awful constrictions placed on her by Shelley's dreadful family after his death, and the seeming asphyxiation of her earlier radicalism. The magic moment of the birth of Frankenstein is that of the genre of prophecy rightly conceived, although we tend to project our later concerns (e.g. genetic enginering) on what was quite a different psychology and symbolism at work in the genesis of the extraordinary myth.	2005-08-04
139689:US	50592435	RXQQYRPRJNAMS	080908970X	765881207	Thomas Paine and the Promise of America	Books	5	28	47	N	N	Age of Paine	The dynamics of the American Revolution can be confusing, at least in the standard accounts. Many of its leaders, viz. John Adams, were not even convinced democrats,and hated Pain, and their influence is still all too visible in the way American government functions. That the revolution became more than it might have reamined is due to the influence of the powerful tide of real democracy seen in the sudden appearance of figures like Tom Paine,almost a one miracle of successful agitation and rhetorical inspiration. Three home grnd slams in a row, Common Sense, Rights of Man, and Age of Reason,the rest is history, which almost left Paine behind finally in the outrageous succession to his world historical tour de force: concocted amnesia and near oblivion in the nineteenth century, an outrageous fate which we can hope to be still correcting. Part of the reason was The Age of Reason confronting the sudden resurgence of religious culture in the post-revolutionary period. Yet his influence was an underground stream, Abraham Lincoln being one covertly influenced by the reading of his books. In a way the later left got its brains rotted by Hegelian pastiche and bad theory and jacknifed against the revolutionary impulse visible in figures like Paine, and the sloganized denunciation of the bourgeois revolutionary displaced the man who is quite the equal of Marx, and the voice of the working class loud and clear. And he was a revolutionary, notwithstanding his odd popularity among certain conservatives now.	2005-07-31
141026:US	50592435	R25NKJARNR3HRP	0374292884	377846531	The World Is Flat: A Brief History of the Twenty-first Century	Books	4	2	6	N	N	Flatlanders of the world reunite?	The jargon of globalization has become so over sold it is starting to peter out into soundbite prose verbose enough to stun the average liberal into becoming a neo-liberal which is actually less neo than dinosauric. Suddenly conventional wisdom the shibboleths of the new flat earth are hard to challenge. Reviewed by John Gray, no radical, in the NY Review of Books, Friedman's book, we are told, plies a theme essentially found in Marx's Manifesto ('all that is solid melts into air\\") minus the warnings about catch 22's. The point is obvious in one way, and Marx's prophecies were brilliant, and apt, but everyone who disowns him tends to inherit nonetheless the 'economic interpretation of historical dynamics' that pervades his thinking. And it is false, yet the source of one and the same sense of historical inevitability that grips the capitalist technomania rampant today.<br /> Friedman is a smart fellow but he could be mistaken for one of the ideologists of the ruling class Marx warns us of, dressing up promo in nonexistent Basic Theory, like bad guys like Ricardo et al. Let Friedman have his basic reportage on the supposed phase three, and the latest technological widget rss feeds, but then we are still asking what is globalization? Friedman's three waves of this implosion forget the longer view. The American continent was first globalized by the American Indians, their fate in the grips of what must have been the 'creative destruction' wrought by pilgrims and cowboys leaving one to wonder at the next round, fearfully. Globalization has been going on for millennia, where it will all end? That's the problem, the economic view is all too flat, and sells itself on teleological propaganda, but the end is never there.  Globalization is a fact of life, the problem is the fake theory used to cover the problems in the concealed teleological propaganda, the deadly consequences unspoken, from the destruction of the Indian, to the Congo tragedy, to the destabilization of the nineteenth century phase in the First World War. Globalization is simply a process, we have to live with it, it is the theory that we can change: we don't have to pretend that there is a teleology to it, or bow down to the economic myths of historical change. One phase comes,then another, and it always seems like the end of history. But then remember the fate of those early globalization champions, the American Indians, and hope that when the music stops you will still be around.eenth century phase in the First World War. Globalization is simply a process, we have to live with it, it is the theory that we can change: we don't have to pretend that there is a teleology to it, or bow down to the economic myths of historical change. One phase comes,then another, and it always seems like the end of history. But then remember the fate of those early globalization champions, the American Indians, and hope that when the music stops you will still be around.	2005-07-30
157303:US	50592435	R2PCGAVR90P0XN	0060198028	850704314	Vindication: A Life of Mary Wollstonecraft	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A Revolutionary Life	It was the philosopher Hegel who first saw the enigmatic significnce of the generation of the French Revolution, calling it a birth time. Something new was coming into existence, something more than the failed revolutions that rode the tide. For reasons that almost demand the insights of the philosophy of history, that generation was one of the most innovative in world history, and the case of Mary Wollstonecraft is a perfect example of the sudden appearance of a creative individual steeping into history to break the frozen mould of mechanical culture. Thus, almost two centuries before its time, we see the prophetic birth of feminism and the gestating protest against the place of women in society. This short biography is an excellent snapshot of someone appearing as if from nowhere, not unlike Thomas Paine, to proclaim the new age of women. The portrait of the life of Wollstonecraft, from the early sufferings and explotations in a patriarchal family, to her involvement as an oberver of the French Revolution, concluding with her brief life with Godwin(and this account concludes with some material on her later descendants) is crisply told, and leaves one wondering at the symphony of effects that so suddenly gave birth to modern freedoms. We see that while feminism seems to exist currently in a postmodern context, its primordial onset is deeply braided with the dawn of modernity.	2005-07-20
167680:US	50592435	RGE7KFBU6SOTO	006083465X	492849034	The Plot Against Social Security: How the Bush Plan Is Endangering Our Financial Future	Books	5	11	17	N	N	Surviving disinformation on Social Security.	Having read/reviewed a number of 'scary Social Security scenario' books (and been thrown out of whack, factually speaking), I found this book invaluable as an antidote  to the disorientation induced by the pervasive smoke and mirrors disinformation rife in this debate. It should have been obvious from the start that this was another boobytraped quagmire for which a rightwing agenda and the thinktanks thereto conjoined were busy confusing everyone for nefarious reasons. The author goes through the whole history, and we see that none of this is at all new, having started almost from the moment FDR created the program. This is not to say that there are not problems with Social Security, but the privatization proposals of Bush are exposed for what they are, close to frauds from conservatives obsessed with Big Government.  Also useful here were the various editorials of Paul Krugman in the Times, but putting out the whole argument in book form is essential since we can be sure this isn't the last effort to sink the Social Security program. Vigilance--and the facts!	2005-07-13
195083:US	50592435	R4HNG3JSYGPVB	0066210895	88903667	The Queen's Slave Trader: John Hawkyns, Elizabeth I, and the Trafficking in Human Souls	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Sliding into the slave trade.	Attempts to analyze the historical sociology of capitalism and slavery too often deal in abstractions. And the morality of power politics, and economic globalization, as with Marx, tends to be sublimated into the account by value-free laws of history, etc,... All well and good, but. This account of a one vignette of the early gestation of the Atlantic slave trade, in England, speaks more eloquently by its plain account of actual people, at the moment of the crystallization of a dreadful circumstance. Significant is the detail of Queen Elizabeth, quoted early on as denouncing the traffic in human beings, succumbing to royal patronage once the immense profits possible became clear. While one can practically hear the ghost of Marx snorting with contempt, the plain fact of the matter is that there is an ethical history possible, and there was nothing inevitable in the way slavery, almost extinct in Europe, made a comeback in the early modern period. It is not utopian, as this portrait makes clear, to consider that politicians, instead of being untrustworthyfrom the word go, might actually not succumb to terrible temptations and enter in league with poor devils like the Hawkins portrayed here, basically a capitalist thug, soon a courtier.  The portrait of John Hawkins gives a fine-grain series of images of one of the great and classic failures of economic globalization, and the terrible legacy and bitterness that it led to.	2005-06-22
201296:US	50592435	R2FPCXAAUPIBBB	083082314X	808954524	Intelligent Design: The Bridge Between Science & Theology	Books	3	8	20	N	Y	Design arguments as a postmodern Trojan horse	This summary of Dembski's design arguments comes mixed with a revealingly confused discussion of modernism, the course of modern theology, and a futile effort to resurrect the category of the miraculous. Who will save us from Kant but his epigone Schleiermacher? A confused plug for some kind of postmodern revival of the premodern struggles with the author's advanced mathematics to find resolution in the hopeless muddle of methodology created. It is very difficult to see how anyone can change gears between advanced statistics and a naive acceptance of Old Testament literalism. Is the author totally unacquainted with several centuries of Biblical Criticism starting with the very Spinoza he finds so objectionable? This kind of treatment of cultural history shows why the Intelligent Design initiative is all too likely to sow confusion rather than clarity about the limits of Darwinism. In any case, the Intelligent Design theorists apparently expect us to take their technical arguments seriously but leave criticism aside when it comes to Biblical history. To that, in the spirit of Philip Johnson's Darwin on Trial we should add the Bible on Trial, and be clear that consistent discussion may as well start with a debriefing of Christian mythology. This isn't backup for design uncertainties wavering on the borderline of misplaced faith. This treatment shows what would happen if the design movement ever took over the schools, the result would be a truly contradictory muddle of techical education encapsulated in theological conditioning.	2005-06-17
203014:US	50592435	RM15KCF63SWCB	0830823751	929100490	The Design Revolution: Answering the Toughest Questions About Intelligent Design	Books	3	7	36	N	N	Design Counterrevolution	The introduction by the noted miscreant of the Nixonian gang, Charles Colson, gives the game away with a remark on Kant and the 'fact versus faith' dichotomy. I wasn't aware of such a dichotomy (maybe he means the phenomenon/noumenon duality), and it would seem the ID proponents are worried about the Kantian challenge to the argument by design. Most who follow this wing of the Darwin debate are being treated to a deceptive pseudo-version of the 'argument by design'. But since the famous Kantian and other refutations of these proofs puts that out of the competition but are unknown to the crowd being 'reconditioned' if not brainwashed, it is touch and go, and the tactics of the now crystallized ID propaganda machine must proceed with caution lest anyone figure out the strategy (although I am sure Dembski is sincere, but wonder if he grasps how he is being used). I am not proponent of Darwinism or the Darwin propaganda machine, and can only look on disgruntled at the way the classic critiques of Darwin's theory of natural selection have been coopted by the religious right. Dembski's clever arguments matched with the likes of the Charles Colson's are not a trustworthy form of discourse and we now see the real cultural strategy of the right wing in action. This book is divided into piece pointman blurbs defending the new dogmas in a style that seems to court the boilerplate needs of the faithful.	2005-06-15
211431:US	50592435	R1P28NGCO6WSW3	0375411887	304654150	John Brown, Abolitionist: The Man Who Killed Slavery, Sparked the Civil War, and Seeded Civil Rights	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Turning the tide of abolitionism	John Brown has suffered too long from the orchestrated neglect that biased history has imposed on him. Little more than a detail in passing in most histories of the Civil War, zooming in on the facts, as here in this excellent account, brings out his great importance in changing, and polarizing, the public perceptions of slavery just prior to the onset of the Civil War. We don't need to hide his contradictions, such as his violence in Kansas, to appreciate the remarkable complexity and depth to the man, despite the vagaries of his life and career. As one of the first truly non-racist abolitionists he deserves a major place in the cultural histories of racism. But most of all is his significance in turning the tide of pacifism predominant among abolitionists of his time, facing up to the reality the proslavery position implied. We may demur, but the American system was diseased at this stage, and what Brown did created a turning point at the ugly moment when the great democratic republic was effectively paralyzed by useless politicians stuck in their compromises, as with the Fugitive slave law, Dred Scott, and the racist hooliganism in Kansas (which drove Brown over the edge). Clearly political leadership at the moment of crisis was bankrupt and we see the forces of change emerging from figures such as John Brown.	2005-06-08
211705:US	50592435	R2SCV7PKEIN4PW	061834151X	808706533	Empire of the Stars: Obsession, Friendship, and Betrayal in the Quest for Black Holes	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Sleepwalkers	This is a telling history of the discovery of black holes, starting with the work of Eddington and Chandrasekhar, and the conflict between the two, and the human side of the scientific cultural politics of research. Eddington's unexpected rejection of Chandra's paper was responsible in part for the long delay in the acceptance of these at first unacceptable consequences of Einsteinian cosmology.What is strange is that Eddington himself had stumbled on the idea in the twenties, but was unable to stomach the consequences of imploding stars vanishing into a singularity. In part the fact that this finding was inconsistent with his effort to produce a general theory, undermining his life work, was responsible for his opposition, but the result seems to have ended by discrediting him. The course of Chandara's career is a fascinating one, as is the portrait of an Indian scientist of great brilliance.<br />One thinks of Koestler's _Sleepwalkers_, stepping backwards into a new discovery of black holes	2005-06-08
222292:US	50592435	R3EFX1TK1BC8DC	0674016874	55275137	The Evolution-Creation Struggle	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Blindmen and the Elephant	The histories of evolutionary theory by Darwinists are forever biased, because noone really wants to do without the agendas that require confusing the issue. And the scientific/academic community is simply incapable of critiquing the limits of Darwinism, so the job has to be done by someone else. It's overdue. Ruse's effort here produces a strikingly one-sided perspective. The illusion that Darwin alone got it right with his theory of natural selection is the source of one form of the blindness. It reminds one of the tale of the blind men and the elephant. Many in the early nineteenth century had a part of it, but noone, certainly not the Darwinists, can see the whole. Ruse, author of some several histories of evolution (cf. The Darwinian Revolution) here produces an unexpectedly propagandistic account of the history of evolution, with all the spotlight on the great scientific labors of Darwin, everyone else is somehow an 'evolutionist', even T. H. Huxley.<br /><br />The current 'fundamentalism' on natural selection distorts the whole history of the subject. Looking at the history plainly shows a scattershot effect, in which different perspectives each have an insight the others lack. Hegel would be ridiculed now, but he saw that without an account of the evolution of consciousness you have nothing, and should even bother to claim a theory at all.<br /><br />Ruse's attempted distinction of the science of evolution and 'evolutionism' is  misleading, since it assumes that Darwin's theory solves the paradox of evolutionary progress. To dismiss everything before Darwin as pseudo-science, and set up Huxley as the St. Paul to Darwin is to narrow the field of vision. Withoug Huxley's reserve of skepticism about natural selection Darwin's work might have fared badly. Darwin's clever but finally inadequate exposition of his own theory subtracts greatly from the misleading claims for his scientific heroism. The Transcendentalists hardly deserve to be been so totally dismissed. The rubric includes the teleomechanists, springing from Kant, who saw the metaphysical dilemma in evolutionary theories, something beyond the capacities of a dunce like Darwin with his 'science'. They sensed the limits of scientific methodology with its reductionist prejudice, and inability, clearly analyzed in Kant, to deal correctly with teleology. The result is clear from the record where all parties swing back and forth between different erroneous attempts at the idea of evolutionary progress. The embryologists before Darwin clearly foresaw something now resurfacing in genetic research, and the current evo-devo makes one hope everyone might press the reset button and start over. Many of the early critics had a problem with Darwin because his theory was all too obviously wrong, and seemed almost silly. We have been so reconditioned by bad histories of Darwinism we have lost common sense. As the dialectic now tries to swing to other extreme with the Intelligent Design faction, one can only throw up one's hands.<br /><br />Still, Ruse is quite right that the 'religion' of secular evolution distorts public understanding of scientific research. That springs from Darwin's own 'evolutionism', and can't be fobbed off on the others, like Spencer. Two kinds of 'fundamentalists', religious and Darwinian, confront each other. The style of discourse all too obvious among many Darwin fanatics resembles a form of intolerance. The educational system takes on the look of a Jesuitical school of indoctrination. Sociobiology plies its obvious ideology, and in the main disguised Social Darwinism reigns as before. Ruse somewhat outrageously tries to let Darwin off the hook on Social Darwinism. Blaming it all on Spencer doesn't cut the ice anymore. Any theory of natural selection will automatically provoke a kind of Social Darwinist confusion. Time to face facts.<br /><br />The dismissal of the earlier generation before Darwin is unacceptable anymore. The confusions over the idea ofprogress, as in figures such as Erasmus Darwin, are notably open to critique, but surely Darwin is as confused as the rest. A figure such as Lamarck, if we can bypass his confused theory of adaptation, and the silliness over giraffes' necks, clearly saw the way in which two levels are at work, and must enter any theory. Darwin collapsed these two levels into a monistic selectionism, to the unending confusion of the whole subject. The point is clear in figures such as Gould who try to reinvent the second level, but can't let go of selectionism.<br /><br />The current morass of evolutionary theories is a phenomenon clearly, although indirectly, indicated by a figure such as Kant who practically prophesies the intractable Darwin debate. The dilemma of scientific, ethical, aesthetic, and teleological issues has to be recast altogether into something more than just scientific reductionism. Until that day the Darwin debate will tick over without end, and leave one with the impression that a technological society that can put a man on the moon can't produce a true theory of evolution. Thus the term 'evolution-creation' struggle is misleading. The problem is Darwin's theory. The question of creationism is nonsense at the fringe, but threatening to hijack the debate from the domain of scientists and philosophers where it belongs.figures such as Erasmus Darwin, are notably open to critique, but surely Darwin is as confused as the rest. A figure such as Lamarck, if we can bypass his confused theory of adaptation, and the silliness over giraffes' necks, clearly saw the way in which two levels are at work, and must enter any theory. Darwin collapsed these two levels into a monistic selectionism, to the unending confusion of the whole subject. The point is clear in figures such as Gould who try to reinvent the second level, but can't let go of selectionism.  <br />The current morass of evolutionary theories is a phenomenon clearly, although indirectly, indicated by a figure such as Kant who practically prophesies the intractable Darwin debate. The dilemma of scientific, ethical, aesthetic, and teleological issues has to be recast altogether into something more than just scientific reductionism. Until that day the Darwin debate will tick over without end, and leave one with the impression that a technological society that can put a man on the moon can't produce a true theory of evolution. Thus the term 'evolution-creation' struggle is misleading. The problem is Darwin's theory. The question of creationism is nonsense at the fringe, but threatening to hijack the debate from the domain of scientists and philosophers where it belongs.  <br />	2005-05-31
231117:US	50592435	R14709M5KNFDZ3	B0006DXE5E	926951409	Kant's concept of teleology	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Kant, biology, and teleology	One of the relatively few books on this subject in English. Kant had insights here that have been lost in current standard science, and this is reflected in the current Darwin debate, among other things. This and many other books in this field deserve to be republished and better known.	2005-05-23
241310:US	50592435	R28Y138585L64S	0375412026	352974810	American Prometheus: The Triumph and Tragedy of J. Robert Oppenheimer	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Physics and militarism	This biography of Oppenheimer cuts to the quick of the militarization of physics in the life and career of the man at the center of the action. From the glories of Quantum Mechanics, and the colorful squad at its center, to the tragic entanglement in weapons research and politics the tale is seen through the brilliant allegories of Oppenheimer's embrace and the protest at the tragedy unfolding. Will physics claim the title of 'dismal science' from economics? Oppenheimer was in many ways the perfect man for the job he did, because he at least tried to bring some perspective on what was unfolding. The incomprehension of political factions to grasp their position can be seen in Truman's boneheaded dismisal of Oppenheimer as a 'crybaby' for his concerns about Hiroshima. The final loss of security clearance has to be one of the most bitter fruits of the McCarthy period and is a reminder that the final phase now shows the state domination of science, where the beginning shows us the intellectual breadth and social awareness of the brief period of the foundations of the atomic sciences.	2005-05-14
241395:US	50592435	R2A9GSKEKX7HR0	0375506322	170819182	Stalin and His Hangmen: The Tyrant and Those Who Killed for Him	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Dark lords	Views of the Russian Revolution and its course have been transformed by the archival research opened up in the wake of the fall of the Bolshevik era, and the results are transforming our views of the Stalin period. This exceedingly blunt portrait of the henchmen of Stalin fairly well completes in the small the large scale picture seen in books like the _Black Book of Communism_. The closely focused detail of the criminality of the whole enterprise, especially the almost surreal world of the secret police chiefs, from Dzierzhinsky to Beria, makes for compelling reading. Explaining the resulting portrait of evil actually becomes harder, because it seems almost incomprehensible. Why by any standard would Stalin plot to exterminate the Kulaks? Is this merely stupidity mixed with psychopathic sadism? It almost seems like a will to fail. As in this instance the whole revolution foundered almost immediately as the untested shibboleths of ideology all failed at the first step, driving its perpetrators to extremes in the expectation of making it work.  In the midst of this we find Stalin to be an intelligent bookworm and student of literature reading five hundred pages a day, and interested in the fate of Russian poetry. His psychology remains to be understood.<br /><br />On the one hand we have the catastrophe of ambitious and ruthless men coming to power. But there is another side that shows much of the violence already present very early on, in lesser doses, even in the pre-Revolutionary years. All the principals seem to arrive at the critical Leninistic phase with their values set, falling into the traps of the confused ideologies of the Second Internationale, ready to provoke terror, the rules of the game already jelled. The result had little to do with Communism and more with the resurfacing legacy of the very world the revolutionaries said they were overthrowing. The point is clear from odd and chilling details, e.g. Stalin's inspiration from Ivan the Terrible. The book's conclusion suggests these latent strains are still at work, resurfacing in the current Russian exit phase, as if to turn around and move back into the nightmare. We should hope not! The disinformation of the Stalin 'mystique' in Russia itself apparently still operates, but all these new accounts will hopefully contribute to a better awareness of just what transpired.conclusion suggests these latent strains are still at work, resurfacing in the current Russian exit phase, as if to turn around and move back into the nightmare. We should hope not! The disinformation of the Stalin 'mystique' in Russia itself apparently still operates, but all these new accounts will hopefully contribute to a better awareness of just what transpired.  <br />	2005-05-14
246787:US	50592435	R3IL8EV4YFKTSD	0066210720	81957535	One Matchless Time: A Life of William Faulkner	Books	5	4	4	N	N	One matchless eternity	This briskly paced biography of Faulkner summons the image of the man very well, and brings some resonance to the extraordinary period from 1928 to the nineteen forties when the inspiration to create a mysterious world in a series of masterworks overtook this shambling southerner breaking out of the initial conditions of his birth. The gestation of the first novels then sudden appearance of Sound and the Fury is one of the great literary tales of the twentieth century, and the extant vision is of the Golgotha of a lost and passing world, no sentimentality needed for this tragic view, of the peculiar and flawed society of the South after the Civil War and Reconstruction. Faulkner's work echoes this ominous mood in his matchless evocation and cathartic cutting to the core of the unconscious of that world and summons, next to Moby Dick, the tragic genre to the telling of the tale of the American Dream.	2005-05-09
246789:US	50592435	R2GOFT657OIEOR	1591020026	237437969	Karl Jaspers on Philosophy of History and History of Philosophy	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Philosophy and the Axial Age	Most works on Jaspers fail to even mention his seminal work on the Axial Age in his _Origin and Goal of History_. This work explores Jaspers' philosophy of history (& history of philosophy) and in the process corrects the neglected side of his oeuvre. Jaspers in many ways, perhaps unconsciously, provides a correction on the Eurocentric philosophy of history in the Hegelian vein, and explores the fuller dimension of world philosophy from Confucius, Lao Tse, to Nagarjuna, and others. This fuller view is latent in the implications of the Axial period's mysterious globalizing integration of transculture.<br /><br /> The work on the Axial Age brings together the observations of a whole century of historians and is one of the most important historical discoveries of modern times--yet one passed over in silence in a scientific culture that can't handle the obvious suggestions about the universal history of man.<br /><br />Interesting book, filling a gap in the record.	2005-05-09
246904:US	50592435	R3CM0B6PESO8A9	0300103611	980957606	FitzRoy: The Remarkable Story of Darwins Captain and the Invention of the Weather Forecast	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Voyages of the Beagle	The figure of Fitzroy lurks in the background of the Darwin saga and it is actually quite refreshing to draw him out on this score, both because of the interest in his life and work on its own terms and also for the light it throws on Darwin's early explorations in biology. Fitzroy's achievements in weather forecasting are little known, and his contribution to Darwin's education no doubt proceeds indirectly from the context of disciplined and meticulous scientific work in the Beagle's prime mission.	2005-05-09
247983:US	50592435	R3EAVU9F7KYOGC	047167186X	168106425	Banking on Baghdad: Inside Iraq's 7,000-Year History of War, Profit, and Conflict	Books	5	2	8	N	N	Millennial traumas of instability and war	Although it covers a fairly immense amount of ground beginning with the Sumerians and the empires of Middle Eastern antiquity, this snapshot history of the Middle East from the author of IBM and the Holocaust gives an unwittingly cogent portrait of the reason for the chronic difficulties of Islamic socities: too much war and conquest, going on too long, with no let up, for what is now thousands of years. At some point it needed to just stop, but never did, and no sooner has one phase completed in the jihads of Islam than another starts with the absolutely destructive Mongols, followed in short order by the Turks.<br /><br />The book only briefly dwells on the total destruction of the brief flowering of the vibrant culture of Islamic Iraq and the failure to recover from that. In many ways the liberation from the Ottoman yoke should have initiated a new era, but a new set of predators rapidly appears in the form of the oil hyenas, bringing the tale of plunder up to its current phase.	2005-05-09
253301:US	50592435	R1SCZ9TALKWCT3	0719014921	416178032	Under the Banner of Science: Erasmus Darwin and His Age (History of Science Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Evolution at the dawn of industrialism	The figure of Erasmus Darwin in the history of evolutionary thought should be a more conspicuous one, since, along with Lamarck, he is really one of the true founders of evolutionary theory. This fascinating biography of a colorful figure shows the many-sided genius of the man in his times, and it seems right and proper that a great idea should find its heroic beginnings in poetry. The early idea of evolution was, and would remain, ambiguously associated with the parallel theme of progress and the generation of Erasmus Darwin was that of the first stage of the Industrial Revolution, and its attendant (revolutionary) philosophy of social change, and the possibility of change. The counterattack was swift in such figures as Malthus, and the discredit thrown on such as Erasmus D. would last a generation, and delay public acceptance of the idea of evolution. The famous Lunar Society, with which E. Darwin was associated, is the first bright side of the great industrial transformation just beginning to take place, and it is no accident that Charles Darwin's later theory would still carry the signs and symptoms of the signature ideology of the age.	2005-05-04
253581:US	50592435	R3D8UIY4VP647M	0520058305	376679860	The Age of Lamarck: Evolutionary Theories in France 1790-1830 (English and Italian Edition)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Credit where credit is due	Despite his fame and authorial fortune, the place of Darwin in the history of evolutionary thought is an anomalous one, and the standard histories tend to reinforce this imbalance. The real birth of the idea of evolution was at the end of the eighteenth century, with Lamarck in many ways the first great theorist on the subject, with a definite plus in the camp of Erasmus Darwin, Charles Darwin's grandfather. Lamarck is too often taken in terms of his more well known, but less successful idea of adaptation, but this is a secondary question. In the depiction of Soren Lovtrup in _Darwinism: Refutation of a Myth_ Lamarck really produced several theories of evolution, among them that of the fact of evolution, as opposed to theories of the mechanism. Darwin ended up taking credit for what was really Lamarck's breakthrough, in part because the times were ripe, and because of the changes in social thought by the mid-nineteenth century. The idea of evolution was born and then passed under the spectre of Jacobinism, and the period of Restoration created a long delay in the idea's acceptance. We can still see that nervous reluctance to even broach the topic in Darwin himself.<br /><br />Many of the first to assess Darwin's theory saw immediately that Darwin was really proposing Lamarck's first theory and grafting natural selection onto that, and they could see a problem there at once, undoubtedly one of the factors in the onset of debate and the confusion over evolution as fact and theory that became associated with Darwin's formulation. If the record could ever be set straight, this book might help.	2005-05-04
253977:US	50592435	RLUE8NTY5451P	0846215535	320381066	Hungry Generations: The Nineteenth Century Case Against Malthusianism	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Rise and fall of the Malthusian ideology	Nice to see this work now available, for this is an old gem of a history of the impact of Malthus and the resulting debate which lasted for two generations in great acrimony and much political back and forth. Malthus' rejection of the new claims for progressive amelioration and the possibility of social progress, timed with his appearance in the reaction to the French Revolution made him a pivot of conservative propaganda. Drawing almost all the major figures of cultural life from Godwin onward into its orbit the debate seems hard to take seriously now,one winces at some of the absurdities here, but makes positive definite as a test case the process of ideological propaganda. The brief victory of Malthus in the period of the Reform Bill proved in fact his gradual undoing, and yet his influence conditioned even Darwin's theory of evolution and the issues remain thus concealed in in less blatant or better disguised forms even to this day (witness George Bush on Social Secuarity).	2005-05-03
259758:US	50592435	R24YO7E977IK77	023112662X	243958679	Chaos and Life: Complexity and Order in Evolution and Thought	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Critique of Neo-Darwinism	This fascinating voyage braiding evolutionary thinking with chaos theory starts with a cogent critique of current Neo-Darwinism in a fashion reminiscent of Robert Wesson's _Beyond Natural Selection_. Students of evolution are seldom aware of the criticisms of Darwin springing from scientists themselves, or of the attempts to really grapple with the problems without the distractions of the current Darwin debate, which is mostly propaganda.	2005-04-29
263107:US	50592435	R7UMDH5VS01OX	0060524308	400007646	Bound for Canaan: The Underground Railroad and the War for the Soul of America	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An American Epic	The story of the underground railroad is one of the real sagas of the American Epic, as much so as the better studied episodes of nationalistic self-glorification. This highly readable study makes this neglected history to life with a remarkable amount of exciting narrative detail, bringing home the difficulties suffered by runaway slaves, even for those near the Mason-Dixon line. The chances for those in the deep South were by comparison almost nil, to start. Because of the slavery laws the only safe haven was Canada, and yet communities of free blacks emerged from the period of the revolutionary war. The plight of free blacks even in the North shows the dark side of pre-Civil War American culture and the staggering damage done to a republic at birth by the temptations of constitutional compromise.	2005-04-26
266615:US	50592435	RZBG69UOQTE1E	0814740057	511166289	Marks of the Beast: The Left Behind Novels and the Struggle for Evangelical Identity	Books	5	10	16	N	N	Instant mythologies of evangelical right	This study of the history and effect of the apocalyptic Left Behind novels takes the temperature of the contemporary religious right and the evangelical movement with its conservative ideologies dressed up in eschatology and the right wing politics of anti-modernism. The author traces the genre, and its earlier phases in the seventies, and its first success in Hal Lindsay's The Late Great Planet Earth. The unexpected success of the Left Behind series, reaching seventy million books sold, suggests commercial exploitation as much as spiritual fervor, and the portrait of the evangelicalism in its current incarnation seems a far cry from Wesleyanism, going a long way toward explaining the cultural depth or tenacity of this new major pawn in the political landscape.	2005-04-23
267309:US	50592435	R3QPIP15P83FKS	0889462755	906165820	Kant's Critique of Teleology in Biological Explanation: Antimony and Teleology (Studies in the History of Philosophy)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Biology, teleology, and the nature of the organism	The current Darwin debate is fixated in a species of dialectical seesaw, metaphysical in essence, in a fashion that blights both scientists and their religious opponents. The study of eighteenth century biology would seem an unpromising venue, but this study of Kant, the dialectic of teleology and the Critique of Judgment, in the context of the early stages of this science, with its imminent discovery of evolution, summons up the key issues that haunts the subject to this day. The Darwin debate can be a source of bewilderment but students of Kant often stumble on the reason for it, and the meticulous effort in this text to trace the distinctions of constitutive and regulative judgements in Kant's early and late works does just that. Kant had a fine sense of the complexity of the organism and, despite his orientation to the legacy of Newton, brought a disconcerting double perspective to his critical system, yet one that cogently highlights the dilemma of scientific methodologies attempting to unify biological understanding, but always with a basic contradiction in tow. Thus the current debate over design versus reductionist selectionism is not so surprising in this context, as the basic difficulty pointed to by Kant resurfaces at once in scientific and public discourse, as if revolving around the 'antinomy of teleological judgment'.	2005-04-23
267768:US	50592435	R2ICSJQ6JTOBNN	0809085143	326852785	Second Founding: New York City, Reconstruction, and the Making of American Democracy	Books	5	1	1	N	N	New York and the legacy of racism	We naturally associate the Mason-Dixon line with the obvious divisions of ideology, and yet the case of none other than New York City is not so simple. This history of New York during the Civil War and Reconstruction shows a side we easily forget, from the infamous Draft riots to the age of Tilden and the end of reconstruction. In fact the struggle for racial tolerance nearly failed as the tide of Reconstruction past and the anti-democratic elites of the Gilded Age created the status quo that endured until the twentieth century.	2005-04-22
274879:US	50592435	R1FJIBXAFT8U3G	0393060160	675244523	Endless Forms Most Beautiful: The New Science of Evo Devo	Books	4	20	50	N	N	From Geoffrey St. Hilaire to hox genes.	This is a fascinating book, very much worth reading, but I knocked off one star for the outrageous way in which the history of biology is distorted, whether deliberately or because of the misleading if not mendacious histories of biology that disgrace the subject and confuse even specialists and authors.  Looking at the index one finds no reference to the developmentalists, such as Geoffrey St. Hilaire or Von Baer. Darwin meanwhile is made over into a precursor!! It is not nice that the history is this outrageous, one must conclude that modern biology, certainly its history, is a subject without integrity. Surely the history of biology shows that the embryologists in the first half of the nineteenth century anticipated modern breakthroughs of the last generation, but that Darwin and the Darwinists clipped this early research with their incorrect and limited microevolutionary obsession with natural selection. Many critics of Darwin, including many of his first reviewers, could not accept Darwin's thesis because they were aware of the implications of embryology. Even Huxley we forget supported Darwin but demurred on his mechanism because he was aware of the discrepancies.<br /><br />Obviously the paradigm has to get fixed without anyone being the wiser, and Darwin has to remain the icon here, and to sell books the subject has to be fixed.<br /><br />Beyond that, and the book would have been better simply presenting the basics of the new developmental genetics, this is a compelling read and a good fast intro to the new world of the remarkable hox genes and their implications for biology. Since Darwin did _not_ know of all this and assumed that natural selection would do the job of hox genes, any reasonable presentation ought to point out that Darwin was wrong and that we are moving in a new direction. Further, now that we see so much developmental structure we should suspect that something more is involved in macroevolution than natural selection. We should at least demand some better proof.<br /><br />In any case, read skeptically this is a fascinating book, but let's hope we don't get railroaded into a new phoney synthesis here.<br /><br />It is worth reading Soren Lovtrup's _Darwinism: Refutation of a Myth_ to get from the old embryological underground the real history of biology in relation to developmental issues.and some better proof.  <br />In any case, read skeptically this is a fascinating book, but let's hope we don't get railroaded into a new phoney synthesis here.  <br />It is worth reading Soren Lovtrup's _Darwinism: Refutation of a Myth_ to get from the old embryological underground the real history of biology in relation to developmental issues.	2005-04-17
276527:US	50592435	R2KXG5MSAN73SR	0226471837	509331226	The Strategy of Life: Teleology and Mechanics in Nineteenth-Century German Biology	Books	5	10	14	N	N	The forgotten legacy of the teleomechanists	This is a very important work in the history of biology, more or less ignored in the current paradigm trance, and it is good to see it in paperback. If you are baffled by the current design debate this book will show you how one resolution of the issues emerged at the beginning of the nineteenth century. The onset of Darwinism closes a veil on the generation prior to 1859, save for the direct line of those leading up to Darwin, in the standardized histories that are very selective. The rest is ignored or else dismissed as the wrong conceptions of (German Romantic) Nature Philosophy. But the real picture is more complex and this includes the truly significant and fascinating world of the teleomechanists, springing from the legacy of Kant and his great critiques, especially his third, where the intractable concepts of teleology in relation to causality and Newtonian physics are treated in a very profound way. Most students of modern science could not distinguish Hegel from Kant in any significant way, dismissed as idealists. This fails to see the place of Kant in the history of science, rather than philosphy. At a time when the design arguments of natural theology are being pressed on reductionist Darwinians this potentially far more sophisticated approach deserves a new hearing. The teleomechanists, due to Kant's influence did not allow themselves the pitfalls of the design propagandists. Lenoir's text properly balances the depth of Kant's thinking with the history of the research program this spawned and an appreciation for Darwin. The sudden reaction visible in figures such as Helmholtz, originally a member of this school, has set the tone, indeed the pseudo-antimetaphysical jargon, of the current world of science. One wonders at this battle of the schools of 1848, in the collapse of Hegelianism, Feuerbach, and the onset of Comtean positivism. The successes of this tide of reductionist research, among them those of the Darwinians, have blinded us to the limits correctly predicted by the teleomechanists, and now visible in the inexorable dialectic over natural selection. Lenoir covers the whole ground and concludes with the critique of Von Baer of Darwin's theory of natural selection in the 1870's. Nothing much changes here, and it is significant that Kant virtually prophesies the fate of Darwinism before it even came into existence.<br /><br />See also the commentary on the teleomechanists in The Cosmological Anthropic Principle, by Barrow and Tiplerectly predicted by the teleomechanists, and now visible in the inexorable dialectic over natural selection. Lenoir covers the whole ground and concludes with the critique of Von Baer of Darwin's theory of natural selection in the 1870's. Nothing much changes here, and it is significant that Kant virtually prophesies the fate of Darwinism before it even came into existence.  <br />See also the commentary on the teleomechanists in The Cosmological Anthropic Principle, by Barrow and Tipler	2005-04-15
279474:US	50592435	R2D7SCR127SE7F	0226684733	259883493	Sewall Wright and Evolutionary Biology (Science and Its Conceptual Foundations series)	Books	5	5	13	N	N	Formation of the Synthesis	This is a superb history both of Sewall Wright and of the emergence of the neo-Darwinian synthesis, although, being an intellectual biography of Wright, it is not a complete picture of the development of that synthesis. Although I am critical of Darwinism, the fact remains that this is a compelling subject, if only the hype factor were subtracted from later accounts that make the mathematical version of post-Darwinism appear like the triumphs of physics. That is definitely misleading.<br /> Starting out biographically, the second half of the book details the complex history of evolutonary theory as it appeared in the twenties, thirties and forties, at the hands of Wright, Haldane, and Fisher. That the 'synthesis' was really a two or three headed beast, and that Fisher and Wright had a falling out and produced different versions of basic theory is not always obvious from the slick texts on population genetics now promoting what seems like a finished subject. The issue of genetic drift, from Wright's early ideas, consistently misprotraryed, to the contribution of Kimura, is especially valuable. I was dumbfounded to learn that Provine, in his discussions with Wright as he researched his book, finds the ubiquitous use of fitness landscape graphs to be incoherent!  The account makes clear just how difficult it is to produce a theory of evolution, and the overconfidence of promoters proceeds in apparent ignorance of what's going on in their subject, so soon rendered over into a packaged paradigm by Dobzhansky et al. Quite apart from anything else, Wright insisted on the complex interactions of gene complexes, and yet his and Fisher's work proceeds with the standard (over-)simplifications of very restricted subsets and loci. The complexities remain undiscovered country and were present from the beginning, starting with Moritz Wagner of the 1870's with his observations about non-adapative speciation. Peter Bowler in The Eclipse of Darwinism describes the state of evolutionary theory at the beginning of the twentieth century, the world of Bateson, De Vries, and Morgan. This is the context of Sewall Wright's gestating contribution to the marriage of Mendelism and the selectionism of Darwin. With all due respect one has to wonder how anyone could have produced such a dogmatic paradigm from such uncertain findings and formulations. Obviously the public must take the experts at their word. But the reality shows that the neo-Darwinian synthesis is a falling out and quarrel of Wright and Fisher, followed by the Pauline ministrations of Dobzhansky who couldn't understand the math. Whatever the case, this has to be one of the best books on evolution going.heory at the beginning of the twentieth century, the world of Bateson, De Vries, and Morgan. This is the context of Sewall Wright's gestating contribution to the marriage of Mendelism and the selectionism of Darwin. With all due respect one has to wonder how anyone could have produced such a dogmatic paradigm from such uncertain findings and formulations. Obviously the public must take the experts at their word. But the reality shows that the neo-Darwinian synthesis is a falling out and quarrel of Wright and Fisher, followed by the Pauline ministrations of Dobzhansky who couldn't understand the math. Whatever the case, this has to be one of the best books on evolution going.	2005-04-13
280253:US	50592435	R3DAI3XMDOZWD8	0748617418	983116592	Eastern Influences on Western Philosophy: A Reader	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Before the New Age movements...	This is an excellent compendium of essays dealing with the influence of Oreintal, especially Indian, religion on Western philosophy in the generation of the Romantics, and after. Although the influence since the Renaissance is clear, the generation of Herder, Schlegel, Hegel, and Schopenhauer shows an especially close recognition of the significance of the Indian classics. The essays stretch for Malebranche to Martin Buber, with the studies of Schopenhauer being of especial interest to this reviewer, along with the documentation of Nietzsche's contact with the (infamous) Code of Manu.<br /><br />After the Theosophical movement the flood of crackpots, shady gurus, bald wonders and occult fascists makes the question of these Oriential influences into a near quagmire, and the New Age movement(s) are almost a disservice to the reality. The earlier, almost innocent, investigations of the philosophers during first contact are refreshing for that reason. German philosophy in its profundity spawned a 'latent Upanishad', so to speak, in its great ruminations, a point clear from the case of Schopenhauer, where the connection suddely becomes clear.	2005-04-12
280688:US	50592435	R8PA8S80Q5IT2	0826306098	745767630	Evolution without evidence: Charles Darwin and The origin of species	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Gestation of Darwin's Origin	This is actually one of the better studies of the gestation of Darwin's theory from his early travels and researches from the 1840's to the publication of Origin. The author brings out the way in which Darwin's thinking crystallized before he had the foundations of knowledge to put forth his thesis, and his hesitations, doubts, and uncertainties are clear from the record. In fact, the lack of evidence for his thesis was central to his difficulties. He was forced to argue not so much for the correct theory as the least objectionable one. And in fact, among other reasons due to the prodding of his sudden competitor Wallace he was forced to publish too soon. Lots of interesting details from Darwin's notebooks, a useful and cogent study.	2005-04-12
282057:US	50592435	RH7DMRPKVJKCW	080184391X	76535333	The Eclipse of Darwinism: Anti-Darwinian Evolution Theories in the Decades around 1900	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Behind the triumph of Darwin's theory	We tend to think of the monolithic triumph of Darwinism in the wake of the publication of _Origin_, but as Bowler shows the theory of Darwin was under assault by the end of the nineteenth century, before the rise of the neo-Darwinian synthesis. In fact, the acceptance of the fact of evolution--and the rapid conversion of most scientists--was not matched by a similar assent to natural selection. Further, the absence of a genetic argument and the treatment of inheritance in terms of blending was a major problem. By the time of the sixth edition Darwin's claims bordered on incoherence, as a strain of Lamarckianism reentered Darwin's thinking. This was only the beginning, and by the beginning of the twentieth century claims for theistic evolution, orthogenesis, Lamarckianism flourished even as the rediscovery of Mendel produced genetics and the mutation theory. It would be some time before the real triumph of Darwinism occurred, by the middle of the twentieth century, and yet one wonders if a similar cycle must greet the harderning of the paradigm that we now see.	2005-04-11
282387:US	50592435	R3PIC6Y13XXT95	0520083938	931780132	The Creationists: The Evolution of Scientific Creationism	Books	5	11	20	N	N	The complex legacy of creationism	This is an excellent history of the emergence of Creationism in America. It is actually a somewhat complicated subject, no doubt the reason its critics and Darwinists tend to underestimate its force. It is interesting to see how the tenor of religious challenges to Darwin changed near the beginning of the twentieth century. Many religious critics of Darwin in the nineteenth, such as Agassiz and Mivart where not so unreasonable compared to the fundamentalists to come, in the triumph of crackpot theories. In fact Darwinism itself went into 'eclipse' toward the end of the century, and somewhere in this interlude the new strains of creationism emerge. The legacy of William Jennings Bryan remains of great interest, and he is rarely understood. In some fashion his conviction that the First World War was connected to Darwinism energized his opposition, and this long second phase of the Creationists. This is connection is often denied, but the we discover that Mencken in the Scopes trial period was promoting his Nietzschean selectionism Social Darwinism,rubbing salt into these wounds. So the picture is complex, and one wonders to what degree the rigidity of biologists isn't feeding their own nemesis.	2005-04-10
283834:US	50592435	R1271NJ55RUU8P	0809029561	605787101	Beyond Oil: The View from Hubbert's Peak	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Running on empty	Famous for his accurate prediction of the peaking of American oil reseves in the seventies, Hubbert went on to make a similar prediction for global oil--the year 2000. In this compelling jeremaiad on the passing of the age of oil, the author revises Hubbert's peak to late 2005, which makes this the annus horribilis. Whatever the accuracy of this particular figure, the basic point is clear, as is the narrow vision of the American powers that be who have consistently refused to face the obvious, and prepare for the transition that is inevitable.<br /><br />Here is a sobering quote from the book, for those gadding about in their SUV's<br /><br />\\"Fifteen years ago, we should have started investing heavily in alternative energy strategies. That opportunity is now lost. There is no time left for scholarly research. There is no time left for engineers to develop new machinery. We have to face the next five years with the equipment designs that are already in production. It's not going to be easy.\\"	2005-04-09
285053:US	50592435	R2UCYOARMXBORV	0813530369	134257196	The Evolution Wars: A Guide to the Debates	Books	5	2	16	N	N	Still no theory of evolution?	This series of snapshots of the Great Darwin debate (which actually begins in the generation before Darwin) proceeds from the period of Cuvier/Lamarck to Gould/Dawkins, and episodically covers the key incidents of the development of Darwinism. Less detailed than the author's older, but still useful, The Darwinian Revolution, this account poses the question of why there is such a long debate. The reason must be the weakness of the theory proposed by Darwin. To that we should add the misleading scientism of the Synthesis appearing from Dobzhansky et al, and the book gives a revealing glimpse of paradigm formation in action. The problem is the public cannot see behind the math to the limits of population genetics, hence the limits of the theory itself. It seems that Gould is consciously or not trying to overthrow illusions here, yet still remains mired in the basic assumptions of the basic belief system.	2005-04-08
285278:US	50592435	R210VJ01MSMRJU	0070320489	756237955	Apes, angels, and Victorians;: The story of Darwin, Huxley, and evolution	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Darwin epic	Although out of date and superceded by a considerable number of later scholarly works, this account of Darwin and Huxley and the generation of the Origin is still interesting, and profitably read, although some of the views (e.g. the account of the Huxley/Wilberforce debate) have undergone severe revisions.	2005-04-08
286290:US	50592435	RRQCYJOD63TW2	0312875150	500167304	Reading the Enemy's Mind: Inside Star Gate: America's Psychic Espionage Program	Books	5	2	14	N	N	Remote possibilities	This is an interesting, and surprising, history of the government's involvement in pscyhic phenomena--as far as one can tell. Who knows, maybe it's merely propaganda, and the government isn't letting on. In a culture where Big Science enforces dogmas about the human mind, and normal human experiences in this field are dismissed as those of 'flaky new agers', it is almost odd to be reading this, an almost matter of fact account. It is actually helped by a dose of skepticism, and unlike the usual 'trash' peddled in this field. Actually, psychic powers and military motives/research is an unwholesome combination and our 'flaky new ager' is as likely as not to discover the facts of the case here by avoiding it (?!) As with the warnings in the celebrated Patanjali, some stumble into this on the way to something else. Best to pass on. Good that it be so. But if so-called spiritual types exploit these domains for nefarious purposes under the cover of saintliness, we can hardly begrudge dot.gov the wish to protect themselves. Who knows what spyware is lurking in Bush's brain. The disaster of governmental bodies 'controlled' by an invisible cadre here is nothing to be written off, consider Tibetan history and the hypocrisy of deceptions there, and for their next assignment they might penetrate the sufi mafia or the Tibetan gang. Those raised in scientific culture enter this realm blind, can get eaten alive by the 'bad guys' and would do well indeed to be wary of the dangers. Current scientific thinking here is about as far off the mark as you can get.	2005-04-07
291659:US	50592435	R1BGYPBTGLA7TP	0805077227	122983488	Hell Riders: The True Story of the Charge of the Light Brigade	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Brittannia rule the waves	I found this hard to put down, that plus the  background detail for the Crimean War, nineteenth century England, and the inefficiency of armies, makes for an interesting book. I had been an unknowing receiver of the Tennysonian myth created by his famous poem written shortly after the famous charge, and it is actually quite illuminating to check the mental phantom of the saga against the facts. With imperial overtones, the Crimean War begins as gunboat diplomacy. The depiction of the officer class is a snapshot of the British class system, and the defunct policy of allowing the aristocracy to purchase offer commissions. With the resulting sadsacks in charge the misteps towards the famous cavalry charge are set. The ambiguity lies in the blunder mixed with Tennysonian echoes (triggered by the reports of the famous Times journalist William Russell). The minute by minute account of the dread seven minutes of the fatal attack is almost cinematic, and fairly well wraps up the tale.	2005-04-03
292060:US	50592435	R5MAVJMBXAN8M	0060393556	938605832	The Mind and the Brain: Neuroplasticity and the Power of Mental Force	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Software versus hardware	The conventional wisdom/paradigm in the current era of scientism disallows the independence of mind from brain processes. Here in this remarkably deft account the place of mind is declared independent, in a brass tacks grounding in neural processes, without the philosophic distractions that impinge on the metaphysical. With a touch of Buddhist meditation lore, the phenomenon of OCD (obsessive-compulsive disorder)is explored, with the discovery that a therapy resembling mindfulness can engage an unknown potential of neuropasticity. The authors also explore the connections with quantum mechanics, and the interprettion of the work of Stapp. The behaviourism of current researches forces many to reinvent the wheel, and here the authors proceed to a practical demonstration in action of the classic gestures of the Kantian Third Antinomy (no doubt they don't think of it that way), and the ambiguity of 'will' emerges spontaneously in the consideration of the ambiguous neural labyrinth. That 'mind' can influence and change brain activity is, in the end, the most natural interpretation of the facts of the case, and the current inability of most scientists to grapple with the basic contradiction in their methods is like a form of methodological exile. The point should be clear from the simplest consideration of computer software. Nothing in the consideration of hardware can deprive us of the potential of the software. The 'freedom' to use the software cannot be mechanized away by considerations of hardware, for that would miss the point entirely, depriving us of a mode of activity that requires the 'will to use' not explained by any isolated causal sequence in the hardware. Insightful book, with a practical twist that makes its points stand out in the midst of the odd complexities of brain function.	2005-04-02
292277:US	50592435	R1Y9Z19D2OSYJS	1592476422	766661722	Explaining Postmodernism: Skepticism and Socialism from Rousseau to Foucault	Books	5	7	17	N	N	Navigating the postmodern labyrinth	The confusions of modern philosophy can be daunting, especially the realm of postmodern thought. Postmodernism seems to create a decisive break with the past, and yet a deeper continuity is present. This is also true of Nietzsche who echoes some of the themes of German philosphy and Fichte in a disguised resurgence. This work seems to wish to take the bull by the horns and reduce everything to a schematic unity, from Rousseau/Kant to Derrida, Foucault,... In that it is partially successful,and certainly interesting and useful. You would think Kant some sort of archaic monstrosity after Nietzsche and his subsequent admirers. Yet one of thematics of the whole discourse of postmodernity arises from Kant himself. Yet Kant is not rightly seen as a postmodernist.<br /><br />Taking a bird's eye view in this fashion is a delicious treat, but does such complexity really reduce in such handy fashion? Since Kant is fundamental, and a turning point in all of philosophy, putting him in the grab bag of the Counter-Enlightenment is all well and good, almost a standard tactic for some, and yet he defies that easy categorization. The account seems to have a packaged view of the Enlightenment (who does not?), by which German philosophy is mechanically attempting a revolt, perhaps to rescue religion. Yet it is fairly hard to deprive Kant of the status of almost supreme Enlightenment figure. We must broaden the Enlightenment to include some of its own oppositions, and indeed Kant almost foresees the coming contractions of scientism and moves, not to retrograde religiousness, but to a possible synthesis that can embrace Netwon, yet move beyond him.<br /><br />Anyway, the tempting reduction of such a vast terrain is a momentary and enjoyable exercise in clarity, apres ca, encore le deluge...	2005-04-02
293016:US	50592435	R1EDBCEYHLHX15	0299202801	889695519	Blood Libel: The Damascus Affair of 1840	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Deadly strains of the anti-semitic virus	This remarkable short history of the Damascus affair of 1840 is an eye-opening snapshot of the dynamics of archaic anti-semitism resurfacing unexpectedly in the world of the moribund Ottoman empire.Despite its Middle Eastern context, it is almost as much about Europe and the story is really of the spread of a European strain of anti-semitism to a susceptible environment. The publication, then republication, for example, of a toxic 'blood libel' tract in the early nineteenth century, is one of the factors in the outbreak in the closed, almost archaic world of Jews, Christians and Moslems in old Damascus.<br /><br />The story is told well, and crisply covers all the majors incidents, and the tale is an important incident in the emergence of the anti-semitism of the later nineteenth century.	2005-04-01
295904:US	50592435	R1J4HVU42CF0JW	0807044261	593523108	Un-Making Law: The Conservative Campaign to Roll Back the Common Law	Books	5	12	18	N	N	Distortions of legal philosophy	Keeping an eye on all the fronts of the conservative attempts to destroy liberal America is not always easy, and this excellent account of the 'un-making' of law is a warning, and a reminder that changes are occurring beyond the threshold level of awareness of non-specialists. Here the issues of contract, property, and personal injury law and the rightwing effort to rewrite a century of legal writ are given a detailed look, and the result, in this very readably scholarly study, is especially insightful in the context of legal history: once again the story begins in the Gilded Age with its highly biased versions of common law, which a century of lawyers were able to critique. Now the conservatives are genuinely 'reactionary' and wish to erase all of the gains. Useful and important book for anyone who is not a legal specialist, but is concerned or confused by the current propaganda, e.g. about the issue of tort lae, about which alarmist scenarios are flushed through the media. So if you fell for the story about the lady winning a case for spilling coffee at MacDonald's (she suffered third degree burns...) this is the book to start with.	2005-03-30
296563:US	50592435	R2SJLSEVDD89KJ	0670033707	802570237	The Dominion of War: Empire and Liberty in North America, 1500-2000	Books	5	15	19	N	N	Imperialism and ideology	This is a very insightful account of American history in the chord of imperial expansion, telling the story that doesn't quite appear in standard accounts. We are so habituated to the American narrative that we forget the terrible legacy of expansionism, and its endless betrayals and ethnic cleansing. One useful feature of the account is to start in the sixteenth century, and show the change that came over the relations of settlers and Native Indians. A further key is to include the complexities of the Seven Years War to that of the American Revolution, showing their direct connection (the same for the Mexican-American War and the Civil War). The story of William Penn and his pacifism and good relations with the Indians is like a forgotten echo, and, as with this case, it is important to see how much of our history is a story of the defeat of good intentions as the lowest common denominator of imperial conquest seems to take over. The case of Penn and Pennsylvannia is a reminder of what might/should/could have been, leaving no excuse for the teleological fallacies of the great American narrative.	2005-03-30
298897:US	50592435	R3BBQQWTZ8CJC8	0300080794	11072691	Secrecy: The American Experience	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Eroding the open society	This is an important documentation and history of the blight of screcy overtaking the American Government in the wake of the Second World War, especially in the context of the Cold War. Moynihan is especially critical of the way in which the gestation of classified information supporting fallacious conclusions (e.g. the Missile Gap)thwared proper open discussion and review of wrong policies. Moynihan makes a sound case for the excessive use of classification, to the point of absurdity. This erosion of the open society requires an active correction, although it is hard to see how this usurpation of power can be stopped in the short term. In any case, the threat to 'government by the people' is direct and ominous.	2005-03-28
299415:US	50592435	R1MYZMD24JGDE	1400061199	987690167	The Eloquent President: A Portrait of Lincoln Through His Words	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The living word	This is a highly interesting history of the emergence of Lincoln's great rhetorical career during the civil war, starting with his railroad tour on the way to Washington after his election. Tracing the particulars and varied drafts of these gestating classics, the author puts each of the classic speeches in its context, especially the Gettesburg Address. The resulting fine-grain context for Lincoln's great masterpieces of eloquence is highly enjoyable and highlights the tenous edge they gave to his threatened passage as president through the trials of the Civil War.	2005-03-28
300065:US	50592435	R1HLZQK5LVS9I2	0963784625	71160616	Blood, Money & Power: How L.B.J. Killed J.F.K.	Books	4	18	21	N	N	The endless whodunit solved?	I withold one star on the grounds that I can't properly evaluate the claims made in this book, but... It is an important addition to the investigation. Having read many books on the Kennedy assassination, reserving judgment (due in part to their tendency to cancel each other out) I had gotten a bit tired of the genre and skipped reading this one, but then after reading (and reviewing)the  (quite excellent) _Judgment Days_ on Johnson and Martin Luther King felt nonetheless something awry, and ended up reading this almost by accident, as if drawn to see behind Johnson's mask. The result completely erased much previous reading on the subject with an account that, if not fully adequate, seems to break a deadlock in these endless queries into Kennedy's murder. One problem is the author's tendency to fill gaps with what he calls 'faction' or journalistic novelization. That would seem damning, but disregarding that aspect, the overall outline is quite convincing in the way it tells the story of Texas politics (at its worst) and  Johnson's early political career (not a pretty picture at all). Much of this earlier detail would be of great interest even if the book hadn't dealt with the assassination. As a portrait of politics, especially the Texan brand, the book is quite an eye opener, and obviously a lot of this historical material is routinely sanitized in presidential historiography. If you have read a lot of Kennedy conspiracy books, it is important to consider this one, since it dispenses with much of the red herring baggage and distraction of previous efforts. One thing about this approach is that the broad outlines (despite the speculative details) are not something one would invent (although I could be wrong) and seems to roughly fit the evidence, tying up some loose threads.<br /><br />In any case, this mystery won't go away, and this material seems to put the issue into a more falsifiable mode, unfortunately short of full success on that score. And there is the question of the remarkable fingerprint evidence left at the Texas depository.on of the remarkable fingerprint evidence left at the Texas depository.	2005-03-27
300975:US	50592435	R2TUYUCRS4UMW5	052183368X	409757186	Isaiah Berlin: Letters 1928-1946 (v. 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Hedgehog, fox	\\"Life is not worth living unless one can be indiscrete to intimate friends', opines the remarkable Berlin in this collection of his early letters. Isaiah Berlin is one of the most engaging figures of twentieth century letters, and this early first volume stretches from his school years, through to his classic work on Marx, thence the war, and subsequent Cold War. Berlin the witty conversationalist manifests in these epistolations, with their colorful background amidst ominous political events of high drama.	2005-03-26
301077:US	50592435	R2SK4S5NDEMEOO	0739101048	689153098	What's Left of Liberalism?: An Interpretation and Defense of Justice as Fairness	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Stealing a march on Marx	The work of Rawls is a thriving academic specialty,but his reputation in the broader spectrum of liberal or other opinion is problematical, with too many negative verdicts of various kinds pronounced on his work by archaic liberal fanatics and others. In one way this is merely a sign of conservative ideology, but from another direction the left has proven incapable of cutting through its own jargon long enough to appreciate the rich explorations initiated by Theory of Justice. This very cogent exposition of the major themes of Rawls' seminal work speaks to the left's recalcitrance and embarks on a detailed look at the major themes,ending with a challenge to postmodern meanderings and its inability to produce a viable liberal or any other coherent view of political philosophy. Cheerful and engaging work, that might poke leftist prejudice a bit. The first book I read was the critique of Wolff, a fascinating work, but it left me complacently critical. This book jolts you into seeing that while many sermonize on utopian themes, Rawls actually rolled up his sleeves and tried to repair basic Enlightenment liberalism with a brilliant descendant of the long lost contract theories.	2005-03-26
301078:US	50592435	R3DYG3IESVFTC8	0060797460	733354591	Bad News: The Decline of Reporting, the Business of News, and the Danger to Us All	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Decline and still falling...	We learn from this critique of the news media that Cronkite no longer watches the evening news. Surprise? Fenton's acute, but not shrill, expose of the decline and continuing fall of televised non-news has the feel of one who knows the ropes and the inside dry-rot that set in during the nineties: from public service to corporate cash cow operations. It is a peculiar version of censorship amidst the paeans on the free press and the American way. We are rapidly becoming a completely uninformed public, awash in streaming media dayglow, it had best not the final verdict	2005-03-26
302901:US	50592435	R1W069FTSCKEDZ	0275935930	192614968	Marxism and Philosophy in the Twentieth Century: A Defense of Vulgar Marxism	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Marxist theory as an archaeological site	Marxism has been declared dead so many times to the point each new declaration seems increasingly feeble. Like the religion of the undeground Christians it seems to pass on as an underground stream of sacred gibberish. One problem with that is the inability of the spectrum of lefts to disentangle themselves from the fragments of theory that haunt all progressive ideas of change with the resulting paralysis of initiative. The irony is that in an age of rightwing revanche the prophet whose prophecies were declared wrong correctly predicted the kind of mess we see in Washington today.<br /><br />This book gives a good twist on the history of the various Marxisms, with a no doubt slightly ironic take on a 'defense of vulgar marxism', the flotsam of the underground stream. The idea is that current analytic Marxism shares with the Second Internationale a similar perspective and tone, e.g. in the rejection of dialectic, the emphasis on a scientific formulation. Whatever the status of this view, the resulting history is actually very useful, with a recursion on the various stages, from Kautsky and Bernstein, to the Western Marxists, to the current stage of spastic fecklessness in a score of global listserves. Marx has affected you whether you think so or not, and even if you wished to prevent that you would have to study the way the layers of the theory dissolve and recombine. At the price indicated the book should be expropriated to the public domain.	2005-03-24
304562:US	50592435	RBOM28UXK6YOW	0060775599	332045650	Players: The Mysterious Identity of William Shakespeare	Books	5	10	18	N	N	The mystery playwright and the players	The question of the real Shakespeare is one that won't go away. Every time the issue is declared solved/dissolved, it resurrects, and this amusing summary of the evidence concerning the identity of the playwright of the plays versus the man from Stratford is provocative and hard to rebut. As proof of this I tried to avoid the book, and to leave the matter to rest in my mind, but curiousity got the better of me, with skeptical consequences. Perhaps it will pass, but... The problem starts with the attempts to go further and speculate about someone other than the Shakespeare we know, so-called. The question is dismissed at insane, puerile or crackpot, but the standard history faces some serious anomalies, of dates, composition, ability, education, knowledge exhibited in the plays, especially of overseas places such as Italy. Once this evidence is collated in reasonable fashion sans the standard crank-headedness of many such works, the total is unsettling. Many things don't add up, starting with the facts of the known Shakespeare's early circumstances and education, the speed of composition, and ending with his wills and the complete absence of commentary on his death. This peculiar situation of authorship bathed in semi-anonymity, where most contemporaries left biographical detail and records of passage, doesn't make any sense on its own terms, but doesn't prove anything certain either. But the suggestion remains of a mystery person unaccounted for, to resolve the contradictions staring out from the facts. But it seems, then, the mission was accomplished, that we may never know.<br /><br />Unlike many treatments of this subject, this one tends toward presenting the difficult facts, and letting them rest, and the result tweaks the enigma the more.	2005-03-23
309299:US	50592435	R1408YICPS9I45	1573929727	325985161	Into the Buzzsaw: Leading Journalists Expose the Myth of a Free Press	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Censorship in action	The worst censorship is the one you don't see, or even suspect, and this volume of exposes covers the terrain with admirable panache-and facts. The deadening mechanics of media manipulation leaves us scratching at newsprint or staring into the tube at monopoly in action. That the owners and operators of all this have no standard of truth that isn't hypocritically violated at a moment's notice is by now obvious on one level, yet requires the case made in detail by journalists struggling with the actual cases in newsrooms. We should hardly scapegoat struggling news orgs or exempt government bodies, and the account by Palast of the stolen election in Florida is a case in point, the brazen tactics of the various politicians, and the total inability of the media nexus to report the story.	2005-03-19
309694:US	50592435	R37T1LCUF0ZTS7	0618088253	144453019	Judgment Days: Lyndon Baines Johnson, Martin Luther King, Jr., and the Laws That Changed America (.)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A new reconstruction	Johnson became so excoriated during the Vietnam period that history sometimes forgets his heroic moment, with Martin Luther King as his uneasy ally, of passing the greatest civil rights legislation since Reconstruction. Notz' excellent account brings out the suspense in Johnson's shrewd handling of the legislative arcana required to defeat the racist politicians entrenched in Washington (still there to this day). Moving rapidly in the wake of the Kennedy assassination, Johnson and King seem briefly in tune until their ways diverge in the deepening of the Vietnam fiasco. In the background is the insidious J. Edgar Hoover trying to sabotage King and manipulate Johnson. Even now these revolutionary gains seem like a near miracle, and we could obviously make the mistake of thinking racism has gone away or that the forces of racist reaction have been permanently defeated. Johnson in this portrait comes across as a flawed hero, seizing the moment, contradicting his own past, to wrench the stuck system toward its desperately delayed promises of equality.	2005-03-19
311750:US	50592435	R3OCZQFXERBXS8	0684827255	861374931	The HUMAN CHRIST: THE SEARCH FOR THE HISTORICAL JESUS	Books	5	14	37	N	N	Quest for an historical phantom	This is a useful and entertaining history of the quest for the historical Jesus, a quest whose roots stretch back to the Reformation, but especially to the dawn of the Enlightenment in the seventeenth century. It is remarkable how many of the constant strains in this history surfaced at the beginning, and yet the quest has suffered from the inability of secular thinkers to pin down the mythical figure without projecting their own viewpoint onto a phantom historical void. The legacy of the Christian myth protects itself by keeping all parties guessing, and never quite bringing anything into sharp focus.  This account touches the major bases, the material on the period of Strauss and the Left Hegelians, then of Renan being of interest still. It is remarkable how much of the material gets recycled in every generation. One realizes that this isn't a scholarship problem as much as a propaganda problem, and theological disinformation constantly puts the secular critics back at square one.	2005-03-17
312212:US	50592435	R2ZSEV6H951A4H	0805071458	391582870	Arc of Justice: A Saga of Race, Civil Rights, and Murder in the Jazz Age	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The cancer of racism	This history of race in the twenties shows the way that racist prejudice almost became endemic in the North in the wake of the Great Migration. The gripping story of Ossian Sweet, determined to escape ghettoization, and the trial for murder that resulted from the encounter with a mob trying to drive him out of a white neighborhood, shows a side of America that we have forgotten, and yet whose underground strains still haunt us. Around this incident the author weaves the details of the era of the massive emigration from the south to the industrial belt of the North, and the resulting tide of prejudice fed by the (northern) Klu Klux Klan. The trial of Sweet, defended by Darrow, created a partial counterreaction to the tragic collision, in the first intimations of the Civil Rights movement a generation later. But as the author points out the malformation of American cities under the shadow of disguised segregation still endures with a legacy inherited from this period. This important vignette gives a dose of reality, and is a reminder of some of the hidden sides to the cancer of racism in American society.	2005-03-17
315475:US	50592435	R1CM8Q90P7T3R7	0465027571	255540976	Command Of Office: How War, Secrecy and Deception Transformed the Presidency, from Theodore Roosevelt to George W. Bush	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Too much Machiavelli	This is a unique history of the twentieth century presidency. The author plays no favorites, and the rogue's gallery in the lineup is comprehensive. Although the effect of the world wars on the presidency is decisive, the story really begins with the assassination of McKinley and the subsequent era of T. Roosevelt, the beginnings of empire and globalization. Thence to Clinton and George W. Bush the acerbic account continues, and it is the very considerable increments of telling detail that makes the book work, and the altered perspective on standard accounts refreshingly bleached. We get so much hagiographic flak that we lose sight of the mediocrities, failures, and lost opportunities of the White House occupants, who are too often ill-prepared to do the job right. Too much of the history here is passed over. This book throws out a lot of hype, and might seem too much were it not good reading, and profitable at that. One's view of American presidents won't be same ever again.	2005-03-14
317844:US	50592435	R3A0UXUAVKK5IR	0878401474	626172043	Reaganism and the Death of Representative Democracy	Books	5	12	25	N	N	Shaping a plutocracy	This history/critique of the last generation of American politics makes central the shift in public institutions since the onset of the era of Reaganism. The drift toward the right and the systematic attack on the New Deal obviously have their roots earlier, but it is the interval of Reagan ascendancy that reshaped the American governmental system in a decisive, and destructive manner. The creation of a plutocracy using all the tools of propaganda to make that seem a populist initiative is the most insidious aspect of the operation. Trenchant analysis, and unafraid to face the facts.	2005-03-12
321208:US	50592435	R2IBSQBEQFA6ZI	0195103262	874448279	Karl Marx: His Life and Environment	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A classic account of Marx	Rereading the fourth edition of this classic short intellectual biography of Marx, one finds it as interesting as on the first occasion, and the result is a crisp portrait of one of the most misunderstood figures of philosphical history. Marx lived in what was not only a rapidly changing social environment,but one in which the social ideologies of modernity where themselves undergoing shifts of paradigm. From the electric world of the now almost unimaginable period of the Hegelian tide, via Feuerbach and the Left Hegelians, we pass to the age of post-Comptean positivism, and the post-Darwinian world view. This divide is reflected in Marx's philosophic development itself, one of the reasons he is almost never properly understood. Berlin's deft account proceeds through this obscurities with a sure touch.	2005-03-09
322119:US	50592435	R24ADMMPR6QL1	0765606070	493417558	History of Economic Thought: A Critical Perspective	Books	5	18	23	N	N	Debriefing economic theories	Histories of economics are generally crippled by one or another ideological vice, or else misunderstandings of the development of theory, almost an arcane pursuit. This comprehensive history of economic thought gives a critical look at the mainline, the development from Smith to the the marginalists, with everything else draped around that, and the result is refreshingly clear, though charges of bias are inevitable. One problem is that economic theory is beset with cleverly complicated fictions, and those who believe them become confused experts. The slightly distanced perspective here is usefully insightful, taken as a broad canvas.	2005-03-09
324307:US	50592435	R3DMS7WGC9QQV2	0805077553	691582920	The World of Christopher Marlowe	Books	5	18	20	N	N	The play's the thing	This is a very absorbing, sometimes astonishing, short bio of the playwright Christopher Marlowe, with a lot of detail of the time and place. The harshness of the times, the austere educational system that Marlowe survived all the way to an MA, his mysterious activities as a spy, all make for an exotic picture of a world that seems, for all its lingering barbarism, more attuned to poetry that our own. This has to be one of the most seminal eras of history, soon to produce the rarest of the rare periods of tragic drama. In that emerging sequence, Marlowe stands out for his bold embrace of the iambic pentameter, the at first poor cousin of the Latin hexameter, yet soon to shine in Shakesperean glory. Marlowe's short but brilliant career ends ambiguously, his murder more than what appears on the surface, perhaps a government assassination. The image of Faust.	2005-03-07
325274:US	50592435	R2J3BZEO091RCH	0814797040	298001355	The Rape of Belgium: The Untold Story of World War I	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Facts behind the propaganda	The propaganda wars in the First World War produced a strong reaction against the distortions on both sides. But, as the author shows, the result in the case of Belgium was to forget the reality of the German invasion and occupation, which in many ways was the first episode of the twentieth century savagery of warfare against civilian populations. The term 'totalitarian' had not yet entered the language, but the war system created to plunder and repress the Belgians was in many ways the first instance of the type. Sixth place in the ranks of industrialized nations, Belgium was plundered of its industrial capital and infrastructure. This history was a premonition of the tactics of the Nazis to come. Sets the record straight in an area where it is difficult, short of the archival research provided, to maintain objective judgments.	2005-03-06
325441:US	50592435	R267RNSGDLCB9M	1591581397	643857066	Refuge of a Scoundrel: The Patriot Act in Libraries	Books	5	2	3	N	N	'Totalitarian'= 'total control of your reading habits'	This is a thorough history and expose of the fine print in the Patriot Act, with the consequences for libraries, librarians and students in universities. The author details the history of the earlier attempts in this line, such as the FBI's Library Awareness Program, which were shot down, but obviously 9/11 gave some people the green light to try again.	2005-03-06
326590:US	50592435	R3EBH6MF85JTNU	0062515020	590515841	The Conscious Universe: The Scientific Truth of Psychic Phenomena	Books	5	11	18	N	N	Man's unknown potential	This is a rare book in the sense that exploitative or New Age accounts muddy the field and seem to leave nothing but skepticism as an option: but Radin is wise to these wrong approachs and actually succeeds in making a case for the existence of psi phenomena. The current dogmas of reductionism, while they set the baseline of skeptical inquiry, filter out a whole side of man. One problem is the way a scientific approach tend to reify into a set of crystallized concepts, e.g. 'esp', and these are defined as abstractions, which are then subject to misleading tests and/or fantastic claims. But the realms of these supposed phenomena don't follow the rules of standard definition. This is an important book because the current mythologies of the age of Big Science are provoking an immense reaction by those who simply won't submit to definition of man proposed. It is unrealistic.	2005-03-05
326838:US	50592435	RGIMELTQFJDGW	0231096658	517374090	From Hegel to Marx: Studies in the Intellectual Development of Karl Marx (Morningside Book)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	The world of the Young Hegelians	This is still one of the most interesting treatments of the development of German classical philosophy from Hegel to Marx via the world of the Young Hegelians in the generation after the death of Hegel up to the revolutions of 1848. The string of remarkable figures, Strauss, Bauer, Ruge, Stirner, Hess, and Feuerbach, with whom Marx interacted needs a careful account from someone like Hook, although there have been a number of more recent accounts.	2005-03-05
326859:US	50592435	RR8JG16JJ0P6L	041509500X	470509309	Imperialism and Biblical Prophecy: 750-500 BCE	Books	5	1	1	N	N	In an age of empire	The mythology of the Old Testament tends to create a barrier to the right perspective needed to understand its context in the age of the Assyrian Empire. It is strangely ironic that the religious aura here given by traditon makes us take the facts in the wrong way, and we fail to realize what a remarkable period this way, and the equally remarkable string of prophets who arose in this age of empire and transtion. It almost seems like a 'secular' account is the better one to do the job! This short but incisive portrayal of the period leading up to the Exile is thus refreshing and might help to put the current association of the American religious right(llied with a new empire!)with this tradition in some perspective. They cannot do justice to what is one of the great flowerings of the Axial Age.	2005-03-05
327115:US	50592435	R13KPQLGQGBM7P	0231134282	840647838	Kuhn vs. Popper: The Struggle for the Soul of Science (Revolutions in Science)	Books	5	8	16	N	N	The Kuhn paradigm, among other paradigms	This is a very good, and somehow hilarious, account of the debate between Popper and Kuhn, with its resemblance to another well-known debate, that between Popper and Wittgenstein. The author of a recent intellectual biography of Kuhn returns to the fray here, with a somewhat acidic critique of Kuhn's influence on the methodology of science. Fuller seems to side with Popper here, up to a point, and exposes the confusing and not always healthy influence of Kuhn's thinking on a whole generation of thinkers who never quite understood who Kuhn was, or the ambiguities of his background.	2005-03-05
328747:US	50592435	R1OMFE2ZM4DS7T	1560005769	605174504	Oswald Spengler: A Critical Estimate	Books	5	5	20	N	N	Prophet of Decline	After all these years this is still one of the best short accounts of the work of Spengler, whose theories, or better concoctions, never added up to anything truly coherent, despite their continuing popularity. Spengler's basic idea tends to persist because you can't go wrong by predicting decline, and in a regular progression the postmodernizing mood, perhaps now passing, tends to echo that pessimism. Spengler would be charming if it weren't for the really vicious strain lurking in his muddle-headed stew of Nietzschean farce.	2005-03-03
329062:US	50592435	R3KR51K4L65QLW	B0006D5SUI	644619944	Hegel's Political Philosophy	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Hegel Riddle	This older text on Hegel's political philosophy is still fresh and relevant due to its indirect commentary on the Fukuyama propagandas and reprints two debates, one in the 1940's in Philosophy magazine, and the other in Encounter in the 1960's. Included also is Kaufmann's essay, _The Hegel Myth and its Method_.Sidney Hook appears in both debates, on the attack with respect to Hegel, and in response Shlomo Avineri springs to the defense. Perhaps Avineri gets the better of the issues, but Hook's critique is still of interest (at least, in conjunction with rebuttal). After a long period of a bad reputation the pendulum has swung to the other extreme, and a reminder of who Hegel was is important, since all the defenses seem to forget that Hegel is now once again a source of conservative legitimation. But Hegel's political views are very hard to get straight, and the field is littered with confused scholarship. Was Hegel a liberal, conservative, reactionary, Prussian and Restoration apologist, nationalist, proto-totalitarian? Hegel needs defense from some of the off-the-wall attacks to which he has been subjected, but the case for the liberal Hegel is also problematic.	2005-03-03
331012:US	50592435	R37KMGJKFOND0F	0195085574	86651291	American Holocaust: The Conquest of the New World	Books	5	7	17	N	N	In the wake of Columbus	Graphic history of the genocidal consequences of the discovery of the New World, along with the catastrophic effects of spreading of new diseases. The latter are sometimes used to cover the former, and the picture portrayed by the author is altogether horrifying, and a challenge to the systematic amnesia constructed around the facts, which certainly outstrip the Nazi Holocaust by an order of magnitude.	2005-03-02
332741:US	50592435	R178XPSA98TQW4	0679454438	148918425	The Road to Reality : A Complete Guide to the Laws of the Universe	Books	5	34	47	N	N	Breaking new ground for mathematics books	This monumental exploration of the fundamental mathematics for modern science breaks new ground for popular science texts, and does a superb job at giving a terrain survey of some recondite subjects. A prodigious number of topics are included in the text, from Riemanian manifolds and fiber bundles to tensors and differential geometry. Astonishing to see this material presented in a book for the general public. There is more than one way to do popular science and math. A great many students sandbank somewhere near a calculus course and never manage, mostly due to lack of time or occasion, to pursue the avenues this opens up, like an unused tool. But there is a great deal that can be studied profitably if the right literature existed for that purpose. Much of the material of this type is stoked away in specialized texts, and it is remarkable to see it recast for the general science reader. Such readers will hear of exotic yet not altogether difficult subject matter for the first time. Penrose's strategy is the right one here, and we can be glad he had the nerve to include technical details. The text reads well enough that one can even skip the formulae. Covering the immense ground of modern science is a permanent crisis of public information and needs new experiments in exposition. We can be grateful for this audacious venture.	2005-02-28
336298:US	50592435	RYXZ994GC3RIJ	0521841143	986021769	What Makes Biology Unique?: Considerations on the Autonomy of a Scientific Discipline	Books	4	5	14	N	N	Physics, biology, and teleology.	This is a very clear summary of the state of Darwinian theory from one of the founders of the Neo-Darwinian Synthesis. Mayr's career stretches almost the full century of the emergence of the second phase of Darwinism after its eclipse in the generation after Darwin. Despite the excellent summary of the overall terrain Mayr's account brings home the limits of current biological and evolutionary thought. For even as he insists, rightly I think, on the autonomy of biology with respect to physics, the key issue in that regard, teleology, is rejected in the name of the very physicalism he criticizes. Mayr's several critical references to Kant and his well-known third Critique of Judgment show a defensive quality, and it is ironically just there that the key to the methodology Mayr is seeking might be found. It is true that Kantian thinking tends to refect the stage before modern biology when the science of Newton was dominant. But this Newtonian side to Kant is matched with precisely that critique of the limits of physics that Mayr is struggling with. The whole point of Kant's critique was to explore the terra incognita of the 'organism' as opposed to the physical object. In general there is an irony to Darwinism. It proceeds dialectically against teleological thinking, only to be forced to rediscover it sooner or later, in a form shorn of the metaphysical baggage that has obscured the breakdown to a sound biological methodology. Otherwise,a useful and interesting work.	2005-02-25
336573:US	50592435	R2N32Q78HFCRVZ	0738203688	743635577	Dark Hero of the Information Age: In Search Of Norbert Wiener--Father of Cybernetics	Books	5	9	13	N	N	The original Cybernaut	Charming biography of the founder of cybernetics. Norbert Weiner had a curiously unique life, as a child prodigy and then mathematician at the birth of the new information sciences. The so-called Von Neuman computer is really the Weiner-Von Neuman computer, and the book describes the eclectic birth of modern computation (Weiner was himself a considerable 'computer' in the old-fashioned sense of the term)in the tribulations of warfare research in the second world war. Weiner had a unique concern for the implications of technology, and his _Human Use of Human Beings_ is a classic of its type. The birth of Cybernetics and Information theory projected its own future, but events moved in a slightly different direction. However, as we look back the significance of this period, and of Weiner's work, is resurfacing once again, and we can see the labored birth of our digital generation in the prophecies of such as Weiner.	2005-02-25
339527:US	50592435	R393WUHJV88DW1	159030098X	200075149	Chogyam Trungpa: His Life and Vision	Books	4	33	54	N	N	A flawed teacher	Although of considerable interest for its details this biographical history of one facet of the spread of Tibetan Buddhism to America is far too hagiographical. The account of the founding of Trungpa's school and the details of the literature and rituals is interesting and informative, but the account of the man falls short. The author cannot quite find the mode to narrate this story, veering between the usual adoration of gurus and the limp admission at the end the enlightened guru died of alcoholism. No mention is made at all of the systematic sexual exploitation of his female students. All in all the account comes off as false and dissembling. The final absurdity is the parading of Trungpa's anti-democratic views, draped in calls for the need for an enlightened society. Trungpa's views on politics aren't even second rate, and the implications for his teaching, that the authoritarian traditions of Tibetan/Buddhist guruism, are a higher authority Westerners ought to submit to, deserves a Bronx cheer.<br /><br />Trungpa is undoubtedly an interesting figure, but the 'tradition' he instantly created deserves to be challenged at once, because it hides a latent campaign to create a antiquated spiritual culture that is not adapted to modern psychologies.	2005-02-23
340500:US	50592435	R3G3C2X3L4KMGA	0374148368	129507717	An End to Suffering: The Buddha in the World	Books	4	23	35	N	N	The ruins of Buddhism	This is a charming history of the life and times of Gautama and the emergence of Buddhism in its Axial Age context. That much of the book is illuminating and tells a story now the object of great interest in the West. However the account is marred by an admixture of the author's views on Nietzsche, drawing some conclusions that don't fit the tale. Mixing the themes of Nietzschenism with Buddhism is liable to create a toxic poison of mixed modes. It is simply false and unhelpful to describe Buddha as a kind of 'superman' in the vein of Nietzsche. The New Age has shown us a considerable number of Buddha exemplars, and they are pretty ordinary people, they don't match the term at all. The comparison is spurious and leads to the rogue Buddha phenomenon. Fans in the cafe smart set with their endless apologia for Nietzsche might do well to read the fine print in his works, to consider what he said, from anti-democracy, nihilistic extremism, to assertions about the extremination of the unfit. To ascribe this even indirectly to the classic Buddhas and Bodhisattvas sets a jarring tone. In fact the damage has long since been done, and the wreckage of Buddhism on the shoals of such corruptions has left little for those whose trust in the truths of compassion sets them in the direct path of a religion in ruins. Be forewarned. The Nietzschean pseudo-Buddhas are afield and one might recall Gautama's injunction: Be ye Lamps unto yourselves.	2005-02-22
341750:US	50592435	R86RF8NKU81K1	1566565812	185502430	Hijacking Catastrophe: 9/11, Fear And The Selling Of American Empire	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Exploiting 9/11	This is an excellent collection of interviews on the subject of the neoconservative counterrevolution in Washington, and the strategies surrounding 9/11 and the war in Iraq. Behind the public statements of the administration lie the deeper motives of the operation: control of dwindling resources, intimidation with a display of military strength, and a neoconservative philosophy promoting an explicit imperialism. Exploiting the anxieties of the 9/11 catastrophe is the crux of the propaganda game. The text includes interviews with Tariq Ali, Chomsky, Benjamin Barber, Chalmers Johnson, and Shadia Drury who provides an interesting commentary on the hidden Straussianism of the neoconservative clique.	2005-02-21
342346:US	50592435	R1PD3MKP6KGHVD	0826512631	111397605	Rorty and Pragmatism: The Philosopher Responds to His Critics (The Vanderbilt Library of American Philosophy)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Pragmatism as naturalized Hegelianism?	This useful set of essays gives a thorough pro/con perspective on the revival of pragmatism and the place of Rorty in that revival. Each essay has a reply by Rorty. One of the essays aptly depicts the strain of 'naturalized Hegelianism' that pervades the pragmatic enterprise in the wake of Dewey whose seminal influence and early study of Hegel has come to set the tone of everything that followed. Indeed, the first essay by Rorty himself examines 'Dewey between Hegel and Darwin'. Ay, there's the rub. The influence of Darwin on Dewey is arguably the point where the whole subject was led astray into a new metaphysics, in the name of escaping it. Behind this lies the consistent prejudice against Plato and Kant, a puzzling stance, and one that haunts the whole school of pragmatists with a charge of presiding over dissolution with non-philosophy.	2005-02-21
342475:US	50592435	R3M6SF93Q0D2IQ	0521534313	575675138	Democracy Defended (Contemporary Political Theory)	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Suspect sociology of democracy	This is an important challenge to the various writings of Arrow and his social choice theorems on democracy. And it is long overdue. The material is not easily accessible save by someone in the field and this compendium is invaluable for a relative outsider aware of this scholarship but unable to proceed into the details.  As the author notes, one can only wonder at the influence of the views of Arrow and his followers on a whole generation of students now global executives, stewards of industry, and diplomats. The apparent rigor of this kind of mathematicized sociology hides the often spurious character of these exercises in ideology (with Neo-Classical eonomics the champ in this deceptive vein). The behind the scenes influence of this kind of thinking needs an alertness to its actual effects, which aren't speculative, e.g. the Chinese propaganda system is known to exploit this thinking for its legitimation purposes.	2005-02-21
343686:US	50592435	RDPO72912OM95	0471646652	859015112	The Eagle Triumphant: How America Took Over the British Empire	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Stealth empire	Although Americans tend to not see the American Empire, its reality and pervasiveness becomes clear once the problem is seen in a different way. This book provides that perspective via an account of the way the United States created its Empire by taking over the British. In fact, the process is clearly underway from the time of Theodore Roosevelt, but the significant transition occurs in the period of the two world wars.Vivid and anectodal, moving fast from seleced key incidents, this history is invaluable for showing how, as it were, the American version of imperialism come into being without the explict trappings of Britain's overseas colonialism.	2005-02-20
344468:US	50592435	R1EMN1Y1E982MC	0465083323	392545945	The Second Bill Of Rights: FDR's UNfinished Revolution-- And Why We Need It More Than Ever	Books	5	36	61	N	N	FDR's vision	The idea of the Second Bill of Rights appeared in the classic State of the Union address by Franklin Roosevelt in 1944, and is an underground current of American culture. It was also in part the inspiration for the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. That this speech, and the real FDR, is so little known tells us something of the times, but the birth of an idea foretells perhaps its future return. The powers that be don't wish that we realize the incomplete nature of our democracy, and the history of this speech mostly explains the apoplexy of the resurgent right wing. This book explores the history and legal background, and the way this second bill almost became a part of the American system in the 1960's. Everything was in place, and then the election of Nixon stopped the momentum as four new conservative judges were placed on the Supreme Court. The conservative tide after that is the story of our generation and the incoherence, reactionary destruction, and inequality it has spawned. An idea whose time has long since come, and whose second coming we can certainly hope and work for.	2005-02-19
345032:US	50592435	R1YJVY1OBCG8YN	0835608409	875379018	In Search of P. D. Ouspensky: The Genius in the Shadow of Gurdjieff	Books	5	15	23	N	N	The Ouspensky enigma	Update: 2016<br />The question of Ouspensky remains unsolved even as the stock of the Gurdjieff system begins to nosedive. The animus toward Ouspensky forgets that he sensed at once something wrong with the Gurdjieff system, although he could not still see through to the problems. The whole hype over the 'system' forgets the nonsense of the enneagram, and the muddled cosmology made out of what is suspiciously a version of Samkhya. The system of Gurdjieff has proven barren and unable to produce any real exemplars: that's because its real operators are mostly crooks, like Gurdjieff, playing with the suckers fielded by the Ouspenskies. It is time to move on and to see how out of time the original system was as a reactionary antimodernism.<br /><br />See Debriefing Gurdjieffianity ASIN: B01CNZJE5G<br />and the blog nemonemini.info<br />--------------------<br />This study of the philosopher-mystic Ouspensky breaks new ground, and also dares to challenge the Gurdjieff mystique, with a refreshing look at the author of Tertium Organon, the man before meeting the sufi shark, who wrecked his natural development and left a broken man in his place. Hopefully this book can help many to stand back and not get mesmerized by the 'fourth way' game. Almost everyone susceptible to these writings at all lacks the ability extricate themselves from the entanglement or move on to something more useful. I never met anyone who was ever helped by thrashing through this spiritual way, it simply leaves people confused and, ironically, more mechanical than before. It is hard not to suspect the whole game wasn't even intended to help the people it snared, and even a superficial acquaintance with sufis tells one that's no exaggeration.  The whole issue of the Work, and the relationship of Ouspensky and Gurdjieff has gone on far too long, become rancid, with no productive result, and in the process has confused too many people, thousands in fact who need to be released from what was all too obvious a flypaper 'spiritual path' never designed to really help anyone. Such deceptive people are sadly part of the Sufi world and its shadowy mafia,it's no big mystery anymore and it is time people had the courage to stand up to the obsessive domination tactics concocted by such dishonest people.never designed to really help anyone. Such deceptive people are sadly part of the Sufi world and its shadowy mafia,it's no big mystery anymore and it is time people had the courage to stand up to the obsessive domination tactics concocted by such dishonest people.	2005-02-18
345182:US	50592435	R1V46JTHBW9967	0252065034	553384222	LENIN HEGEL & WESTERN MARXISM: A CRITICAL STUDY	Books	5	5	7	N	N	The legacy of dialectics	After reading a biography of Pol Pot I was struck by the need to grapple with the thinking of revolutionaries at the time of their crucial decision making periods, an obvious point in one way, yet crucial to any consideration of social change. There have been one too many disasters here, and the reason is defunct or dysfunctional theory. This work throws a good deal of light on the Lenin sequence, in the period just before he became such a powerful, and unexpectedly ruthless, leader.<br /><br />A strong case can be made that the dialectic inherited from Hegel was the theoretical 'tragic flaw' of the Marxist left, such is the unending confusion over its usage, meaning, and significance. Correctly grasping Hegel is one thing, assessing Marx's version another, the rendition of Engels still further complicates the question. The dialectic of subjectivity versus the dialectic as natural process in Engels generates confused discourse that goes on an on. In this context Lenin is ambiguous, and the story retold here of his sudden interest in Hegel's Logic in the Swiss exile period is an important tale, for anyone trying to get to the bottom of his views, which underwent a sudden metamorphosis visible in his notes, which were not published until much later. The book makes the strong claim that Lenin was really the first of the Western Marxists, which is quite a revision of standard accounts. In any case, this history is important documentation of this quagmire subject, where a sense of profundity mixed with rank idiocy has too often vitiated leftist praxis. To posit dialectical negation in relation to revolution, with 'dialectical leaps' thrown in to give the subject a naturalistic or evolutionary justification, has always been dubious theory. This history, whatever its limits, fills an important gap in the record, although it is good to proceed with caution in this field, for there is a good chance the whole subject needs to be written off as terminal philosophic muddle.	2005-02-18
345819:US	50592435	R2LPOGMS1TZFWS	1571815422	150997293	Sartre Against Stalinism (Berghahn Monographs in French Studies)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Sartrean dialectic	The reputation of Sartre has fallen on hard times due to the ambiguities of his relationship to Stalinism. He has been the frequent object of the standard attacks from conservative point men. And yet the reality is a bit more complex, and he surely at least deserves a fair trial on the evidence. This work attempts to set the record straight, and in the process shows the complexity of Sartre's views, which were very much embedded in the cultural politics of his time. Sartre's views are distorted and he is the source of quotes for things he never said. Thus the well known, endlessly repeated, \\"Il ne faut pas desesperer Billancourt\\" [We must not make (the workers at the Renault car factory)Billancourt despair], was never said by Sartre!  From an apolitical stance in the thirties Sartre was injected into the politics of the left in a content of French Communism, while he always distrusted Stalinism, and was repelled by the Communist party, even though he felt strongly about its essential theme.	2005-02-18
348181:US	50592435	R31RT84QPVNA0N	0385500580	569055645	The God Gene: How Faith is Hardwired into our Genes	Books	4	0	3	N	N	The God Gene hype?	Although the study of the genetics of psychological states, some of them 'mystical', is of great interest, the whole subject, as in this book, verges on incoherence. Questions of religion and spirituality are hopelessly vague because the words themselves have no simple meaning. To say that 'faith' represents religion in the sense of monotheism simply restricts the definition altogether excluding those who protest that 'faith' is a substitute for 'gnosis'. To equate or even compare this then with the enlightenment of the Buddhist, certainly not a proponent of faith, reverses the entire discourse, still under the rubric of religion. Enlightenment for the Buddhist is release from the round of rebirths, certainly something different from a psycho-genetic state. And so the confusions mount up in Hamer's account. In fact, the confusion was present in E.O. Wilson's early attempts as sociobiology to fix 'religion' as a construct of evolutionary biology. It won't work because 'religion', and the evolution of religion, are something altogether different from adaptational evolution. Such a statement can be made entirely from a secular viewpoint. Has noone considered the implications of the Axial Age? We see how religions evolve, and that has nothing to do with genetic. There's a story of a sufi teacher beating a student over the head, \\"Aren't you sick of mystical states--yet\\". These mystical highs, thus, to some are merely the rubbish at the doorstep.<br /><br />Back to the drawing board on this one.	2005-02-16
348649:US	50592435	R31XSEYWIBHCF6	1576753018	331881073	Confessions of an Economic Hit Man	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Stealth imperialism	The United States has never had the external trappings of imperialism so visible in the classic exemplars. But as the author makes obvious from his account that surface appearance is misleading, and the portrait is of a new kind of empire, almost insidious in its career of subtle economic domination. People making charges of imperialism are often stridently ideological, thus this 'insider' account is the more convincing for that reason. Keeping track of the manifold of the American system is hard to do, and to research, and the result is to succumb to propaganda. Even someone who suspects is hard put to really get to the bottom of what is going on. Thus the accounts here of the cases of Ecuador, Panama, Colombia, and Saudi Arabia are especially enlightening. Important reading, and a reminder of the level of deception taken as normal.	2005-02-15
351118:US	50592435	R24TVX4E2X7Y7L	0805066624	585238237	Pol Pot: Anatomy of a Nightmare (John MacRae Books)	Books	5	8	14	N	N	The Khmer Rouge crimes against humanity	This gripping history of Pol Pot and the Kmer Rouge is a good entry point to the historical riddle of the catastrophe brought on Cambodhia by the revolutionary cadres of this last phase of Communism. Perhaps the term 'last phase of mutant Communism'would be better , since isses of ideology hardly enter the account (at least in this one), save for a few of the standard and fatal shibboleths inherited from Stalinist practice (there is a poignant bit about a meeting with Mao just before the cataclysm, with almost cautionary hints of the dangers and the advice to get the complete works of Karl Marx! The Khmer Rouge leadership strikes one as being absolutely fourth rate, ideological automatons). Any Marxist would have to wince at the incongrous outcome of so many inspired treatises finding their final graveyard in the sheer mechanical mediocrity of an experiment sliding into ultimate evil. One can see the roots of the outcome early on, both in the biography of the young Saloth Sar (the future Pol Pot)with his desultory educational years in France, and in the 'initial conditions' of Cambodhian society which was simply not a candidate in any fashion for such a Communist experiment. No good light shines on the imperialist wolves in the background, and the American intersection shows no moments of intelligence or compasssion, but the final horror must be charged to the Kmer Rouge themselves. The author discounts the effect of the Nixon era bombings, but one wonders, all the same at that egregious other horror, to say nothing of the paranoid reactions to the mass murder of 300,000 Communists in Indonesia.<br />Altogether a good account, although the final answers seem to elude this telling, not surprising perhaps. No glib answers are easily had, and the slow accumulation of the facts of the case is the best way to tackle this mystery.	2005-02-13
353372:US	50592435	R34AEQXI7FJPQE	0374281688	751823984	John Kenneth Galbraith: His Life, His Politics, His Economics	Books	5	50	64	N	N	The high tide of the Keynesian era	This colorful and anecdotal biography of Galbraith stretches  across almost the whole of the twentieth century and in the telling leaves behind a cogent history of economics and American government, stretching from the Keynsian revolution to the breaking up of the classic liberalism of the Roosevelt era beginning with Nixon. Galbraith's life puts a lens to the fine grain of virtually all the significant developments since the decade of the thirties and the Depression and leaves behind a lot of insightful asides about the interaction of economists with politicians. The record of clear-headed advice given, but not always taken, has some grimmer moments, such as the repeated cautions and warnings from Galbraith about Vietnam, even as Kennedy was overtaken by events. The picture of the high-tide of Keynesianism is refreshing after two decades of economic sophistry from the post-Reagan generation. You would think that Republicans could manage economies, but the record shows a great fall, as the crackpots with their fancy models and the rest of the looters took over. We could use some the common sense and economic basics that Galbraith once provided (and he wasn't a kneejerk Keynsian). Instead we may be undone by the voodoo artists and their laffer curves, nothing to laugh at anymore as the American public gets swindled one more time. Superb double history, the man, and the American scene.	2005-02-11
354010:US	50592435	R2HW2JHZ9SCVUL	088706387X	962292116	The Crisis of Liberal Democracy: A Straussian Perspective (Suny Series in Political Theory: Contemporary Issues)	Books	5	5	16	N	N	The crisis of Straussian Neocons	This collection of essays is not quite tuned to my views but contains a lot of interesting material as it penetrates to some degree the eccentric, possibly deceptive realm of Leo Strauss' political thought, and might throw some light on the current mindset of the Vulcans and neocons acting out at fifth remove some influence of this controversial thinker, the mentor of many suspicious characters now creating havoc with the American liberal system. This point could be overstated, for it is doubtful if anything more than a distant echo of Strauss remains in any overt viewpoint of this gang whose minds are mostly PR boilerplate, and vaulting ambition. It could be that a mess of Straussian pottage is the real influence. Strauss is a difficult thinker to pin down, and yet his obsessive (interior)Battle of the Ancients and Moderns, equivocation between Nietzsche and Socrates, and the rest, is a surefire recipe for corrupting young neocons, in a play of Machiavellian masks, and the strains often seem recognizable in the watered down crypto-antidemocratic behavior of the current regime, so strong on its democratic rhetoric. The essays are quite balanced and there are also a number of critiques in the mix.	2005-02-10
355865:US	50592435	R1VCG33031XY2Z	0521786142	485631963	Kant and the Fate of Autonomy: Problems in the Appropriation of the Critical Philosophy (Modern European Philosophy)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	The fate of Kant's critical system	The appearance of Kant's great critiques initiated a revolution in philosophy, and yet for many he is beyond reach, as if contained and reformed by his successors, and their transformations of his starting point. Beginning with Rheinhold and Fichte this process began, and within Kant's own lifetime the core of his system was being overshadowed. Their contributions, ending with Hegel, are, of course, of great interest, and yet a subtle process of taking Kant as superceded has been their legacy, and it is quite misleading. This has tremendous ramifications even in our own time, for we can see that even post-Deweyan pragmatism with its 'naturalized hegelianism' is built on this secondary strain (to say nothing of this in Marxism). Ameriks thus produces a very interesting review of Kant's 'modest system' and its remorphed descendants wherein the resurrected phoenix of metaphysical absolutes produces its spectacles. Kant is accused of foundationalism now, and yet his 'modest system' in Ameriks' phrase is actually the original of most of this later attacks.	2005-02-09
357580:US	50592435	RY6GGPS447UUZ	0195168402	981139746	America Right or Wrong: An Anatomy of American Nationalism	Books	5	17	23	N	N	The shadow side of American nationalism	Nationalism was always a volative mixture, witness its history, yet the American variety was granted the good fortune of benign realizations in a civic creed that might show an example to the world in a mood of universalism. Yet as the author of this cogent diagnosis of current ills notes there is a shadow side to the American brand, and this has been evoked into the open by the precipitous and unthinking actions of the new century. And the result has been the opposite of what was intended as the squandered reputation of a flagship democracy is denounced almost universally for its imperialism. This acute diagnostic history also broaches the soured relationship of this to the American-Israeli nexus where the tone of ethnic nationalism doubly braided in both has soured altogether the prospect of America's world leadership. In the tradition of French commentators since Tocqueville, Lieven proceeds with tact to try to wake the situation up, and the result is better than the usual op-ed fare. A wake-up call.<br /><br />Cf. NY Review of Books revoew, Feb 2005	2005-02-08
359022:US	50592435	R196N3IX80STP8	1402204000	958084475	Slave Nation: How Slavery United The Colonies And Sparked The American Revolution	Books	5	39	42	N	N	The influence of the Sommerset case on the Revolution	Studying the American Revolution in isolation can be misleading, and it is important to see the overall context, especially the English one. This book expands this context, and is an entirely remarkable new perspective on the role of slavery in the American Revolution and it is remarkable also that the recently published 'Though the Heavens May Fall' by Steven Wise about the Sommerset case in England seems the perfect introduction to this account (howver, this book amply summarizes the key issues). One could recommend the two together. This case and its pivotal trial resulted in the de facto emancipation of slaves in England. Few histories of the American Revolution properly delineate the sequence of events in the American colonies following this case which in effect established a precedent that sooner or later would effect the status of slavery in colonial America. The cruel irony is that these developments were a crucial factor influencing the Southern slaveholders in their support of the Revolutionary War, not quite the standard version of how it all happened. This interpretation is obvious once pointed out, and requires rethinking almost everything one has read here.	2005-02-06
359631:US	50592435	R255DFSE3NL0EW	0812693906	127294983	The Ayn Rand Cult	Books	5	20	41	N	N	Early sources of the current  rightist reaction	After betting stunned to learn Alan Greenspan was once an Ayn Rand disciple, egad!!, I went in search of some background and this work amply foots the bill. Some reviewers here find the book too harsh, but I think not, since it pinpricks this strange fantasy world created by the apostle of selfishness. However, given the influence on a whole generation, it might be the leftish liberal who could ponder this oddball cult with all the markings of standard cults. The frequent comparisons with the Rajneesh cult are certainly fair game and yet that was something very different in its own way. I was struck by the strange combination of puerile philosophy and commercial success of Rand's career, and the historical interest of her bio starting in early twentieth century Russia. Rand was one of the first to react to the Bolshevik fiasco, and was actually present in Russia at the onset of early Stalinization. That goes away toward explaining, if not excusing, the extreme we find in her writings such as Atlas Shrugged, a book I was never able to read more than a few pages, such is its sheer fixated monomania and gross stupidity. The book interestingly traces the style and tenor of her writings to the business literature of the twenties, homing in on the sources of this early manifestation of the resurgent right we now see. That and much else of interest animates this quite compelling portrait of the piedpiper from the generation of Hayek and the proto-neocons. Rand was a truly special case as 'idiots' go, and this book does it on this topic.	2005-02-06
361529:US	50592435	R3EUKD49DBLAXQ	0521853249	450845566	The Torture Papers: The Road to Abu Ghraib	Books	5	50	56	N	N	The slide into a rightist nightmare	This exceedingly important book documents the incremental slide into justifying the use of torture by the United States government and is a shocking depiction of just how easily and swiftly the downfall can occur. The various lawyers are shown being pumped for the legal grounds, in case of exposure. The assault on the Geneva Convention is depicted, and it seems the figures involved can't grasp the ominous implications, and don't want to. Their minds are made up. The dates of the various key memos begin shortly after 9/11 and show the onset and then its downhill all the way. It seems that with this administration it was an accident waiting to happen, and the excuse of 9/11 triggered a monster lurking in the predispositions of the Bush regime. This is a massive tome of nearly a thousand pages large size, but is extremely well done, and clear for all its detail.  The record now speaks for itself and we have ample proof of the mindset of the Bush gang in action.	2005-02-04
363610:US	50592435	R2LRLA5678DGRT	0393059863	174130715	Histories Of The Hanged: The Dirty War In Kenya And The End Of Empire	Books	5	42	52	N	N	Shadow of empire	This expose of the English colonial history of Kenya does a good job setting the record straight on some key issues, and brings to light the suppressed shadow side of the endgme during the period of the Mau Mau. The infamous reputation of the Mau Mau always deflected attention from the totally inept and repressive nature of the last hurrah of the colonialists in the sunset of the British Empire. The colonialization of Kenya was ill-conceived and predatory from the start, and the whole history was a riddled with a set of contradictions, such as the artificial creation of the exploitative white settler culture  dooming Kenyan development from the first. You cannot let loose such a gang of people such as the white settler crowd, poor white trash in a true sense,  without the rapid appearance of a malignant culture and infrastructure. This account brings to light what was quickly downplayed, the massive repression of the Kikuyu during the Emergency, with the creation of acutal Gulags. The depiction of many of the judicial processes of the period, including the trial of Jomo Kenyatta, is of a mockery of justice. The Kenyan style colony was really an instance of the Empire in decline from its nineteenth century peak and at least the British had the sense after Suez not to prolong the inevitable. See also _Imperial Reckoning_, by Elkins	2005-02-02
365412:US	50592435	RXBI0QZ5DZ6HR	156584839X	639993649	The New Victorians: Poverty, Politics, and Propaganda in Two Gilded Ages	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Dismal recurrence of the robber baron assault on the poor	This study of the similarity of the current neo-liberal resurgence to the Gilded Age gets down to cases with more than superficial resemblances and echoes by showing how the same strategies (of subtle class warfare)are at work in both cases, with respect to questions of public welfare. In both cases an assault on public intervention was a deliberate strategy to erase the gains of the poor. The concordances seem almost uncanny, and the result is a possible lesson the current regime could learn from, if they could learn. The main point is to pierce through the strategy of propaganda against public relief systems, alert to their faults, to see the class interest involved in the attacks on the poor, e.g. the relationship to wage structures, and the desire to eliminate any softlanding against market mechanics.	2005-02-01
366911:US	50592435	RDGBKZZTK5RSQ	0385504543	56058939	Critical Condition: How Health Care in America Became Big Business--and Bad Medicine	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Terminal condition?	It's good that someone can protest the current health care hell, since the forty-five million with no voice or medical insurance are never heard. This depiction of the deteriorating scenario of free-market capitalism applied to the distribution of medical services is pretty shocking, something we already know or sense but put from our minds--the plight of those suffering maximu neglect as they finally reach the emergency, and many other horrors in the lottery of this immense swindle worthy of a banana republic. Almost pitiful is the picture of the way those with the least resources are often stuck with massive hospital bills, far greater than the norm for providers. That's unbelievable, as if the way the regime has made it seem normal. Now what do we do about it?	2005-01-31
373743:US	50592435	R3EBI445V016KV	0195097785	658086754	Race: The History of an Idea in America (Race and American Culture)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A seminal analysis of racism	This reprint of a classic study of racism is one of the most important on the subject in the last fifty years, and significant for being the source of much later scholarly work. The place of racial pseudo-science in American history, indeed, American scholarship was once alarmingly strong, and the picture since the changes wrought in the sixties onwards tend to make one forget the insidious extent of the racist confusions. The book is quite comprehensive, and covers the issue of racism from the early modern onward, from the time of Las Casas and the Puritans to the time of Nazism, with interesting material on slavery, the treatment of the Indian, Reconstruction and afterward, Social Darwism, race in literature, and much more. As a teacher of English rather than a specialist the tone is precise yet informal, yet highly readable, and as the authors of the Forward to the new edition note, the text was an inspiration to many scholars of the time of the first printing.	2005-01-25
375201:US	50592435	R2OLBDTWXUJJ3A	0520240154	392776288	American Scream: Allen Ginsberg's Howl and the Making of the Beat Generation	Books	5	2	5	N	N	The beat goes on	This vignette of the poetic birth of the now classic _Howl_ by Allen Ginsberg puts those radical years in cameo and also provides biographical wherewithall leading up to the seminal moment, the same moment as that of the beats, thence the brouhaha of the sixties generation, so dearly beloved of current cultural conservatives, now gone to the dogs and deserving all howling echoes still reverberating. Interesting is the early Ginsberg, and the discombobulation of his neuroses maturing into a creative tide.	2005-01-24
375279:US	50592435	R22PKX28IBU1KM	0415239087	650638995	Political Investigations: Hegel, Marx and Arendt	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Critique of Right	One of the great moments of modern politics occurred when Marx took on Hegel's philosophy of Right, whatever one's views the matter. This treatment of the subject proceeds through the whole debate, and the shifts in interpretation, of Hegel, then Marx, against the backdrop of the legacy of natural rights. It also caps the study with an interpretation of Kantian cosmopolitanism and Arendt's views on totalitarianism.	2005-01-24
380606:US	50592435	RRCAVEU7UPZZE	0618104690	546978147	Bury the Chains: Prophets and Rebels in the Fight to Free an Empire's Slaves	Books	5	10	11	N	N	The moment of truth	The curse of slavery had haunted civilization for thousands of years, even the moderate gains of the medieval period seemingly eroded by the rise of the modern economy in the exploitation of Caribbean sugar capitalism, and yet within a generation the rise of abolitionism triggered the final end of the institution. This account of the birth of the abolitionist advocacy, in mysterious synchrony with the American French Revolutions,tells the tale of twelve men who created one of the first effective grassroots movements in history. It is a tale with many episodes, among them many failures, but an outstanding moral: don't give up. Well done, from the author of King Leopolds'Ghost. See also, Though the Heavens May Fall, from Stephen Wise.	2005-01-20
383847:US	50592435	R36KTND6N93TAV	0060198400	917355240	The Burning Tigris: The Armenian Genocide and America's Response	Books	5	22	30	N	N	Amnesia and genocide	This excellent account of the whole history of the Armenian genocide perhaps spells the turning of the tide on the organized amnesia that has haunted this subject since the 1920's. And yet it wasn't always so. An immense awareness of and publicity effort about the ongoing genocide is a part of American history from the first period in the 1890's onward. Balakian's account is an indispensable guide, with fresh research, through the three main waves of the Holocaust, the term was first used for the Armenian instance, from Sultan Hamid to the Young Turks to the Kemalists. Exhaustion of the War, the failure of Wilson's initiatives, the influence of oil interests, and the systematic denial of the Turkish nationalists, to say nothing of the latter Cold War alliance with Turkey, induced the amnesia that has persisted to this day. Eerie premonitions of the later Nazi Holocaust pervade this tale, and the direct influence of the Armenian tragedy on the politics of proto-fascism suddenly comes to light.	2005-01-17
384817:US	50592435	R1X6K6ZNIR6VAX	0375422870	751438850	From Oslo to Iraq and the Road Map: Essays	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Lonely Voice	These short essays mostly written for such Arab news outlets such as Al Ahram are an eloquent conclusion to Said's long journey of critique and expose. Critical of both sides in the perennial Arab/Israel conflict, these short but pointed pieces are jolting in their descriptions of what's really going on in the Occupied territories, putting American journalists to shame for their silence and coopted partisanship to the propaganda reign in the mass media. Said's unique perspective will be greatly missed and these short takes on the field of madness make short work of the usual cowering editorials on the collision of Israel and the Palestinians. Said's skepticism from the beginning on the Oslo swindle now seems especially prescient.	2005-01-17
384960:US	50592435	R304SXQ2LWOMFE	0738206954	604714841	Though the Heavens May Fall: The Landmark Trial That Led to the End of Human Slavery	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Abolition and a butterfly effect	This well-researched and highly readable account of the Somerset case in the gestation period of the Abolitionist movement brings home just how close to us in time is the phenomenon of slavery and the stark contradictions of social justice and the abysmal conditions of class struggle, mostly sanitized in standard histories. The rescue of James Somerset from certain death in the sugar plantations of the Caribbean and the process of his trial in the labyrinthine system of the British courts is almost a suspence drama. The saga occurs just at the turning point on the question of bondage and freedom and the next generation will struggle on to achieve the result, but this moment shows the breeze picking up before the storm, like a butterfly effect from small changes to massive transformations. Well done account	2005-01-17
402539:US	50592435	R2NXFW89KR8X5H	0786713518	210257276	Churchill's Folly: How Winston Churchill Created Modern Iraq	Books	5	23	31	N	N	Karmic histories, once and future Iraqs	Whether there is psychological karma I do not know, but there surely is political karma, and this book traces the peculiar imperialistic origins and desinies of the Iraq triangulation and later geopolitical nervous breakdown to its roots, and perpetrators. It is a small world and who should have presided over this but Churchhill (I should have known that), not yet the wise fox of World War II heroism, but a younger and more reckless politico, in the midst of a mess in the making. The opinions in this book are reasonable, but even if further study could show problems and revised opinions, the amount of fresh information makes it an interesting read, if a bit ersatz. Usefully informative, and a way station to still further revelations, no doubt.	2005-01-03
402854:US	50592435	R19X0LVBJRPU6E	0226027961	479649200	Camus and Sartre: The Story of a Friendship and the Quarrel that Ended It	Books	5	12	16	N	N	Reflections in a Cold War mirror	The friendship and then the falling out between Sartre and Camus is more than biography and tells the story of the Cold War in story book dialectical form. This account brings this self-reflective history to light, beginning with the period of the War, the Vichy regime and the Resistance, then the postwar euphorias of both authors as they become public intellectuals par excellence. Their friendship and vanguard solidarity conceals hidden differences, and as the Cold War gets into gear the divergence of 'lefts' finds its exemplars. It would seem sad in one way, and yet this encounter and division produced the dialectic needed to confront the legacy of Communism and capitalism in collision, as if a fated broil. Within a few years all the issues, later the stuff of endless discourse, were tabled, and the stakes clear til the end in 1989.	2005-01-03
404718:US	50592435	R2A4DBB78GWJIA	1403965021	546723822	From Darwin to Hitler: Evolutionary Ethics, Eugenics and Racism in Germany	Books	5	39	71	N	N	The suppressed shadow of Darwinism	This is an important study of a subject that is insufficiently addressed by mainstream Darwinian theorists: the disastrous effects of Darwin's theory of natural selection on views of ethics and morality, whether religous or secularist Enlightenment. There is something monumentally awry in the whole foundation of Darwin's theory, and yet it seems noone in the standard scholarly fields sees fit, or has the nerve, to say so. The subject is cleverly shunted aside under the rubric of Social Darwinism, as attention is deflected from the seminal influence of none other than Darwin. Darwin's theory is not able to explicate the subject of morality, a point lost in the surge of positivism that influenced Darwin and his generation. This important study takes up the slack where mainstream scholars are silent, devious, and/or too intimidated by the Paradigm to realize or point to the obvious, Darwin's disastrous influence on figures such as Hitler. Those who dislike the Discovery Institute will probably disregard this book. But the scandal won't go away. Not even Holocaust scholars seem able to face the reality here.	2005-01-02
409243:US	50592435	R7A7ZZ2N95NR8	0465092934	908962599	A World Without Time: The Forgotten Legacy Of Godel And Einstein	Books	5	38	43	N	N	Two of a kind--with a difference	Terrific vignette history, heretofore little known, of the friendship and mutual discourse of Goedel and Einstein after their exile from the Germany of the thirties to the Institute for Advanced Study. Interspersed with biographical data not found elsewhere is a tale of two eccentrics, and of the philosophical asides and unpublic views of this duet, from Kant, and idealism, to much else. The central story is of Goedel's work on relativity and the discovery of solutions to the general equations that opened up the possibility of time travel and the illusion of time. This finding, unwelcome in mainstream physics, and the object of a posited 'chronology postulate' by Hawking to rule out its implications for cosmology, had lurked in the underground of physics history--until now, perhaps.<br /><br />This is not only important info on the state of physics but scuttlebutt of the highest order. Be sure to check it out...	2004-12-29
419744:US	50592435	RQSMO9W20KYQT	0521812305	624165857	Nietzsche, Biology and Metaphor	Books	5	3	8	N	N	Nietzsche and the nineteenth century Darwin muddle	The confusion over Darwinian theory is almost endless, and in many ways Nietzsche was one of the Darwin casualties. However, he was also an acute critic of Darwin's theory of natural selection, even as he seems to embrace the broader implications of evolutionism, but very much in the context of his times, and the milieu of the end of the nineteenth century with its theories of degenerationism, Social Darwinism, eugenics. Here Nietzsche is given, but should not be, a free ride, which he doesn't deserve.<br /><br />This work is thus in one way a superb study of this context, and in another itself a casualty of Darwinian theory. However, the book escapes without too much harm and constitutes a thorough examination of much that never enters most accounts of Darwinism. It is the fate, and not altogether an inappropriate one, of a thesis from this perspective to assume tacit Darwinism to rebuke, let us say, the mishmash of 'post-Hegelianizing nature philosophy', celebrating Darwin's advance. This fails to see that this dualism of nature philosophy and positivism is a false dilemma--neither side got it right, although Darwin's theory carried the day, in part because it matured as a research project for naturalists who could use Darwin's theory as an operational hypothesis under the rubric of the 'Darwin faith'.<br /><br />In this massive confusion, one would wish to criticize Nietzsche on many grounds, but the grounds chosen ends up the one thing he got right, the limits of selectionism!! This is said by someone who is no fan of Nietzche. These fans should be made aware of Nietzsche's remarks on extermination of the unfit.<br /><br />The current scientific paradigm here is apparently too far gone to get the issue straight it seems, although it is understandable to resist vigorously the vitalist nosedive visible in the period on the part of Darwin critics. But denouncing nature philosophy is good as far as it goes, but maybe they at least saw that reductionist nonsense such as Darwin's was a non-starter, as dozens of commentators desperately pointed out. A confusion arises here because the Kantian version of all this (cf. the teleomechanists) is far more tuned to science than the Hegelian. Kant demonstrated the clear steps between Newtonian thinking and teleology/esthetics/morality that the age of Darwin was busy unlearning. Now they get to fight the fundamentalists in the Bible Belt, which won't prove helpful.<br /><br />However this fascinating study manages to bully through this upside down situation with some indispensable discussions, and references to the literature now nearly inaccessible to the laymen.The amount of useful material that survives here is astonishing, and completely changes one view of the superficial Nietzsche now current.was a non-starter, as dozens of commentators desperately pointed out. A confusion arises here because the Kantian version of all this (cf. the teleomechanists) is far more tuned to science than the Hegelian. Kant demonstrated the clear steps between Newtonian thinking and teleology/esthetics/morality that the age of Darwin was busy unlearning. Now they get to fight the fundamentalists in the Bible Belt, which won't prove helpful.  <br />However this fascinating study manages to bully through this upside down situation with some indispensable discussions, and references to the literature now nearly inaccessible to the laymen.The amount of useful material that survives here is astonishing, and completely changes one view of the superficial Nietzsche now current.  <br /> <br />	2004-12-18
420129:US	50592435	R2Y5X9EO399C4X	0312293046	663820563	Cultures of Taste/Theories of Appetite: Eating Romanticism	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Diet Studies 101	This is my first book in 'diet studies', a subject I didn't know existed, and this will be 'le texte' for me in this field. A curiously charming descant that could be read with \\"The McDonaldization of Society\\" by George Ritzer. I was surprised to learn that it was not Marie Antoinette, but Rousseau, who said, 'Let them eat cake\\" (\\"Qu'ils mange la brioche\\", Confessions, Chapter 6). The book is a mine of curious information. Although the hilarious print of James Gilray, _Germans Eating Sour Krout_ (sic) (1803) fairly well summarizes most aspects of the issues of the postmodern deconstruction of eating habits , the text upscales very well to Kantian issues of taste, esthetics, Hegel's 'consuming totality of the Concept', and the 'carnivorous virity of philosophy'. It is hard to summarize this book, but the portions are of reasonable bite size as snapshots of the Romantic period, \\"Let them eat Romanticism\\".	2004-12-17
420317:US	50592435	R381XS6HK2U6FM	0761986286	559567711	The McDonaldization of Society	Books	5	1	7	N	N	Weberian disenchantment and the hamburger--yuk!	Expanded reprint of a classic sociological study of the reign of hamburger madness sweeping the planet. The basic idea is the study of the Weberian rationalization of cuts of beef followed by the Taylorization of the rationalized portions to mass consumption zones, the great American grossout, soon planetary in scope. The signature mechanics of this ritual is then the clue to much else in late capitalism, as the body itself, in the epidemic of weight problems, becomes the object of exploitations.	2004-12-17
420449:US	50592435	R1FXXGO1OB7TN6	0195044797	612469929	Forging Democracy: The History of the Left in Europe, 1850-2000	Books	5	4	18	N	N	Synonym/antonym: Socialism and Democracy	We are so conditioned to the fix put on the left by the Leninist tradition that we forget the crucial role of the left in the 'forging of democracy' as recounted in this history in a 'slow but steady' account that accumulates telling detail. Once there were liberals who weren't democrats and then the left, in the wake of the failures of 1848, proceeded to the course corrections we now take for granted, no thanks to the liberals who weren't democrats, now democrats, by name at least, denouncing socialism by a Leninist standard where the term was a demand for real democracy.	2004-12-17
420521:US	50592435	R2Z8AYCPS4B068	1573927589	314669665	Deconstructing Jesus	Books	5	16	27	N	N	Request for the historical Jesus	In the vein of Burton Mack's _Who wrote the Old Testament?_ Robert Price's strong dose of Biblical Criticism pursues the phantom to deeper depths, resulting in something close to final skepticism about the Christ figure. The contructivist literature here that Price exposes is confusing in the extreme to anyone in the mainstream churches who is not a determined researcher or student of the literature. So many centuries after Spinoza, and the original deconstructions of Bauer of the Left Hegelians the disinformation game goes on and on, and on.	2004-12-17
420845:US	50592435	RP7XGQJD39B0G	0684129744	729408119	Red '48ers: Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The crux of modern politics	This account of the year 1848 and the two denizens of the failed revolutions of that year is vivid, useful, and fair if not enthusiastic, and gives us a snapshot of Marx and Engels as they actually went about their business. We can see the dilemma's of revolution and reformism born here, in a period that set the tone for a whole civilization--news editorials have never changed since, all you need to do is fill in the blanks.	2004-12-17
421897:US	50592435	R4C4VJ4JN31KJ	0631233946	762578336	Ancient Greek Democracy: Readings and Sources	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The riddle of the birth of democracy	This is an excellent resource for the study of Greek democracy, because of/despite the course textbook format, which doesn't intrude at all. With selections from ancient Greek writers, and essays, recent or classic, by scholars in the field it gives acomprehensive update on a subject that is too little studied or known. Especially useful is the detailed bibliographical essays on the recent scholarly books on the subject which non-specialists would never have heard of or can't locate.<br /><br />That democracy was a broader Greek phenomenon that the Athenian, and its persistence somewhat latter than one thought (many of the city states of Alexanders empire became 'democracies' of a sort)is brought out in the text, that and much else from recent research. It is important to see and understand the history of democracy (and empire) for obvious contemporary reasons, especially as we see the Roman juggernaut slowly overtaking this unique and not long enduring birth.<br /><br /> Great resource.	2004-12-16
423605:US	50592435	R1R3OYHN226NBJ	1859844529	464024356	Debating Empire (New Left Review Debates)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Mainstreaming Hardt and Negri?	The reviews of Empire in the mainstream press, when it first appeared, were so harsh that few, apart from the 'Seattle left' and jargon savvy postmodernists, ever made contact with it. But after four years of Bush, and a spate of books on empire, the mood changes, enough to at least consider their text. And in fact these interesting essays are the reverse of the mainstream debunking jobs, critiques in the light of old leftist, or Marxist, viewpoints. Thus it is ironic to find this hard left critical of the placid Jeffersonian strain in Hardt and Negri's analysis. None of these need be endorsement of their views. But much of the hysterical diatribe against their redefinitions passes into what is now a certain obviousness in their effort to point to Empire.<br /><br />One effect of the book is to jar loose the domination of stale Marxist theory which makes efforts to organize action difficult, as the Right knows all to well, being able to squelch anything but hemming and hawing among those confronted by the avalanche from the right. The whole thing needs more work, no doubt, but interesting.	2004-12-14
427435:US	50592435	R1ESBS4LUB8DQQ	1565847881	599880903	The Origins of Nazi Violence	Books	5	12	15	N	N	The Holocaust riddle	The short commentary on this book notes, \\"A leading social scientist's depiction of the Holocaust as the culmination of liberal, European modernization.\\" That's a little misleading and this very interesting analysis of the Holocaust is not as such a postmodern indictment of modernity, but an attempt to see some of the precursors of the tragedy in the deviations from true modernity such as imperialism, colonialism, instrumental rationality, etc... In all the theoretical endeavors here, amid the demands for honesty on this question, few authors dare even mention the place of Darwinism (yes, Darwinism, and not just Social Darwinism)in the picture, yet the echoes are direct once some of the real statements of Darwin and Wallace on extermination, imperialism, primitive peoples are brought out of mothballs (easier to do in France). These and many other useful insights make for a very cogent book, whether or not this is the final or best approach.	2004-12-11
434933:US	50592435	R3I7PL5YU4HEG3	1566565529	462605189	The New Pearl Harbor: Disturbing Questions About the Bush Administration and 9/11	Books	5	18	22	N	N	Under suspicion/smoking guns, and those caught in WTC collapse deceptions	Reviewer Update: this book by Griffin has been revised and now amplified with others: teh companion book The New Pearl Harbor Revisited is now out; life is getting hard for those charging conspiracy theories. In addition a whole series of other books by Griffin have greatly consolidated his case.<br />I refrain from stating certainties or beliefs, and merely recommend a look at this literature which is alarming to the degree of presenting finally a series of smoking guns.<br />As an example, whatever you think of 9/11 theories, the attempts by establishment defenders to explain the causes of the WTC collapse are too obviously pseudo-science to be believable, leaving even the skeptic non-plussed by the sudden appearance of obvious propaganda. Why?<br />I think it is time for many to examine the evidence as it now stands in the works of Griffin and others. December 2009<br />--------------------------- Older review from 2004<br />Even a critic of the Bush administration would be reluctant to credit conspiracy theories in the wake of 9/11, and yet something strangely nagging always stood in the background: this was too good to be true for what turned out to be the major beneficiaries, the government itself. Given the flood of Internet confusion on this score, however, one soon dismissed the thought. Yet now a reputable author comes up with a documented, if still inconclusive, summary of the main evidence of 'suspected complicity', a term the author carefully analyzes for its spectrum of meanings. Even if you disagree you should agree to the need for an open file here, an investigation to get to the bottom of the current discrepancies of evidence. Personally, I can take it no further than that, since the resources and means to pursue such an issue are considerable.<br />And as the author points out this kind of situation is by no means unprecedented. Not by a long shot. We have the known record of the Spanish-American war, the case of Pearl Harbor, the Tonkin Gulf resolution, and other episodes of stealth deception at the absolute rock bottom criminal level on the part of the American government.<br />So the case is tabled.des of stealth deception at the absolute rock bottom criminal level on the part of the American government.   So the case is tabled.	2004-12-04
442508:US	50592435	R1JGNRI1RI31R	0231084897	131984954	Up from Communism: Conservative Odysses in American Intellectual Development	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Tracing the New Right	There have been a number of recent efforts to trace the New Right. Here Diggins, in the seventies, produced one of first in the genre, and traces the issues back another generation in what is an interesting account of several 'god that failed' figures, the most interesting of which is Max Eastman (before even Sidney Hook), in the most interesting figure of the book.	2004-11-28
459991:US	50592435	R7DIBXXXJGYNT	0743261275	243709653	The Folly of Empire: What George W. Bush Could Learn from Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson	Books	5	6	13	N	N	Imperial amnesia	This sounding against American Empire shows the remarkable, and unsettling, resemblance of the current Bush escapade to the first brush with empire in the period of McKinley onward. The Cuban venture, of Rough Rider fame, and especially,the Philippine quagmire show the same sequence of intoxicating military escape followed by quicksand colonial ambitions. Many are accused of forgetting history. Bush couldn't have forgotten anything--he doesn't read history.	2004-11-11
461421:US	50592435	R3G49TJTROGRK1	081170100X	8211908	American Counterrevolution: A Retreat from Liberty, 1783-1800	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Revolution and reaction	As Eugene Genovese notes in a blurb on the jacket you might disagree with some details or even the viewpoint overall, but this novel approach to the history of the American Revolution is compellingly apt and has a novel twist--detecting the counterrevolution in the revolution, and finding the signs of that quite early on. A lot of things don't quite add up in standard accounts, as certain figures turn into someone else, Jefferson being a prime example, shown up for what he was finally, the fixer on race. The reputation of Thomas Paine is a telling clue, and by the time he returns home he is a radical outcast. The author's 'bon idee' produces much novel forgotten data and little known facts, and best of all mixes in the history of the French Revolution, to which everyone is reacting in one way or the other as the period of the Declaration turns into that of the Constitution, a more conservative document.	2004-11-10
464561:US	50592435	R1XPKZK1KS3DAO	1565847644	920356289	The Condor Years: How Pinochet and His Allies Brought Terrorism to Three Continents	Books	5	16	19	N	N	The legacy of collusion and proxy state terrorism	After all the 'moral values' chatter that erupted after the recent American election, a dose of reality can remind one of just how hypocritical the game is, and this excellent account of the Pinochet years, and the actions of the American government to that sordid history, can serve up the facts of the case, to wit, what Americans are capable of, on the record. Since it takes decades to get the facts, we should be wondering what's going on now in this second round of the 'war on terror' and who the successors to Kissinger are. The need for vigilance is crucial as the surge toward the right provokes all the standard systems of rights abuses, the 'mandate' for torture we won't read too much about, except for goofs like Abu Gharib.<br /><br />The documented history here is first rate journalism and documents in chilling fashion the state terror set in motion to exterminate the leftists in South America. Espcially sordid is the picture of Kissinger colluding here even as he appears to be promoting rights issues, breathtaking hypocrisy.<br /><br />Know what your government is capable of and fear it isn't getting worse.	2004-11-07
476621:US	50592435	R3UDBACDRCCTV8	0521829496	318974310	Debating Design: From Darwin to DNA	Books	5	43	71	N	N	A closed debate?	This is a very useful collection of essays on the design debate, with a good mix of viewpoints. But, unfortunately, a strange thing has happened, Darwinists and Intelligent Design proponents have learned to coexist and remain deaf, caught up in their separate agendas. Part of the reason, no doubt, is that the field of debate has been monopolized by the two parties that have social clout, with little chance of really breaking the deadlock with fresh ideas. It is not hard to clarify the issue of evolution, but the people with the means to do this don't have ad budgets. So we are stuck with the dreary Darwin boilerplate and now the legerdemain of the ID faction. The Darwinists are frozen, and the ID people, after a burst of useful criticisms of Darwinism, have also become fronzen.<br /><br />One part of the problem is that ID folk have gone a bridge too far. As a critique of natural selection, Darwin doubt is one thing. But to go over the threshold to a new and complex metaphysics in disguise via the rehashed hopes for the argument by design simply drives the dialectic in reverse gear. That gives Darwinists their excuse to not listen to criticisms of their position. It is getting very tiresome to hear still the useless claims that Darwin's theory resolves issues of complexity, teleology, and the rest. Will they never learn?<br /><br />We need a third new perspective, not connected with theology in the background, and capable of both using the insights of the new complexity sciences, without their hype, to produce a self-critique of natural selection. Once that's accomplished, then perhaps a new methodology can be devised. The essays of Davies and Kaufmann show hints in that direction, but are still stuck in the wrong science mindset.<br /><br />A ways to go here. The Darwin defenders are notably without insight into the weaknesses of their position, and the fixation on Darwin's theory goes on and on.	2004-10-26
481403:US	50592435	R25UZGNT5F6TG1	1932236317	524292565	Uncommon Dissent: Intellectuals Who Find Darwinism Unconvincing	Books	5	61	91	N	N	What dissent?	This collection of essays suggests a wish rather than a reality, but points to the reason for the problem: the uncommonly strong hold of the Darwin paradigm on the intellectual public. Worth the price of the book is the reprint of the Berlinski critique from Commentary magazine. An essay by Edward Sisson pinpoints the way in which the defenders of the Darwinian paradigm adopt a legalizing party-line mentality that preempts doubt. Frank Tipler reviews the way in which the peer review system freezes dissent, and constitutes a form of de facto censorship. Whatever one's views on Intelligent Design these analyses are an alarming indication of the unique social conditioning factor that has beset the era of Big Science. Dembski's collection here is valuable but doesn't find too many dissenters beyond the range of the ID movement regulars. That's both alarming and sad, and a grim reminder of the totalizing ideology at work in the promotion of Darwin's theory.	2004-10-22
481696:US	50592435	R23N7VUFBRED4V	0765805103	634617894	Metapolitics: From Wagner and the German Romantics to Hitler	Books	5	7	12	N	N	Sources of Nazism, the case Wagner	This transaction reprint from 1941 is a classic chestnut and still reads well as one of the first analyses of the sources of fascist ideology. The case against the Romantics, and such as Fichte, is always important, although it is open to challenge. We can find the earlier sources, but no simple causal sequence--and yet...<br /><br />As Nietzsche well knew Wagner's spiritual odyssey was a strange one and we see the attempt at high tragedy itself turning into a tragedy, irony indeed.<br /><br />One of those books... Significant and lively reading with a 'genealogy' on the mark.	2004-10-22
481726:US	50592435	R2MMQVI6WYUF8Q	0520242866	348312664	Veering Right: How the Bush Administration Subverts the Law for Conservative Causes	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Subversion traced to whitehouse.gov	There have been quite a lot of books this year attempting to breach the Bush battlements, but this one, by its calm and meticulous depiction and documentation, does the job in low key but chilling fashion. No screaming salvos, simply a quiet indictment that adds up by the end of the book to a funereal snapshot of the stealth right, the Bush agenda in the shadows, and the peril for the future given the current conservative momentum. The effect is made steady handed by the depth of the authors experience in government, and the result is a verdict, more than an Op Ed soundbite attack. One of the best of the bunch, and a good antidote to such other similarly themed books such as The Right Nation.	2004-10-22
481842:US	50592435	R25AOPQPRVAY5V	1560256230	997449003	The Truth About Camp David: The Untold Story About the Collapse of the Middle East Peace Process (Nation Books)	Books	5	81	101	N	N	Peace process--a crossexamination	I was reading Dennis Ross' always interesting Missing Peace on Camp David 2000 finding myself with the uncomfortable feeling I would never figure out what did happen. These lingering suspicions drove me to find the lowdown somewhere else, and presto here it is. I cannot finally vouch for anyone' statements in this quagmire of diplomatic Machiavellians, but Swisher's account makes clear how we were probably fooled by the spin coming out of the Clinton-Barak camp after the collapse of the talks. So that's how they did it!<br /><br />This is a key book on the discrepancy between the propaganda and the facts, with Arafat's taking the blame shown up for what it is.	2004-10-22
484083:US	50592435	RH3G08LHXSXBG	0742527573	822045586	The Collapse of Liberalism: Why America Needs a New Left (Polemics)	Books	5	1	7	N	N	Liberal Phoenix?	As social commentators struggle to reinvent the wheel, one might forget that the ultimate and primordial diagnosis of the ills of liberalism came into being quite some time ago (from an unmentionable source, constantly plagiarized). As the left is discredited, all their predictions seem to come true and this critique/review of the conservative nosedive since the seventies has a clearer take on the events than much of the liberal commentary, too close to its leveraged issues to maintain clarity. Without the usual leftist shibboleths, this version of 'leftis lite' moves pst cross-eyed 'tactics liberalisms' floundering in the tide of engineered reaction now flooding the civil space.	2004-10-20
509506:US	50592435	RPA53J4BH8OYJ	0374252874	48810266	Running on Empty: How the Democratic and Republican Parties Are Bankrupting Our Future and What Americans Can Do About It	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A Republic, if you can keep it	I once knew a panhandler, good at it, who taught me his methods, sitting on a park bench. Destined for more upscale pursuits, I never used the lesson, but reading this book the instruction may come in handy some time soon. A devastating breakdown of the rampant confusions of budget, taxes, social security, it ends with a reminder that our founding fathers warned of two things, political parties (factions) and deficit spending. Although a conservative viewpoint shows itself, albeit marginally, in its depiction of the New Deal, the overall discussion fairly well lambasts both parties to the immensity of the budget tragedy underway and the worst of it is the way our political discourse environment can't even discuss the issues. They simply fester in the background. We have a responsibility therefore to get the facts outside of the media system of politicians, and this book is essential reading on that score.	2004-09-26
509573:US	50592435	R2YU5BPKL2V1BD	0195153472	628563862	Mr. Jefferson's Lost Cause: Land, Farmers, Slavery, and the Louisiana Purchase	Books	5	2	11	N	N	Jeckyl/Hyde Jeffersonians	The truth comes out sooner or later, we hope. Here the record speaks for itself, deflating the strains of Yankee Doodle with some 'historical materialist' analysis of the facts of the case re the schizophrenia of our revered founder, Tom Jefferson, a man of fine words and a spastic record on the issue of slavery. 'What might have been' competes with the indictment of the lost opportunity to prevent the spread of the plantation system into the new territories of the emerging American system, especially in the wake of the Louisiana Purchase.<br /><br />Between the Declaration and the Gettysberg Address we find too much American history sawdust.<br /><br />Excellent piece of research behind the myth machines operating on a July Fourth schedule, 'whole cloth', like the commodity of empire in the British cotton kingdom that rapidly survived the blunder of losing its fiefdom in the soon reconquered South.<br /><br />Yeoman farmers? Come on. My leg is pulled out of joint.	2004-09-26
513742:US	50592435	R236UJP8LD4Q95	0393040984	513752605	It Didn't Happen Here: Why Socialism Failed in the United States	Books	5	8	27	N	N	Bedtime reading for Bonzo--and the Sean Hannity's	Americans do a lot of talking about their world historical destiny but a close look at the video tape shows they are missing some major marbles in the democracy check list, as this old chestnut makes clear. Karl Marx minus his ravings about revolution spent the dog years after 1848 doing class struggle 101 in the labor movement, and the results speak for themselves in the social democracies of most advanced industrial nations, and the lack of results in the USA, now beset with the dismal swindle underway in this land of the brave. Among multiple aspects recounted in this highly instructive history is the ironic way universal suffrage appeared very early in the Americas, but only appeared in the European systems as a result of leftist agitation. That and many other factors might explain the facts of the case to anyone suddenly puzzled at why he is losing his shirt in the botched American system. With the passing of the left it was only a matter of time before the whole pack of thieves came out in force.	2004-09-22
519719:US	50592435	RLSAR2OFO5N0L	1570270430	550254865	The Mother of God	Books	5	12	15	N	Y	Annals of the ratpack of satsang gurus	This work is unique and left me almsot non-plussed. Anyone who has endured attack from the current ratpat of satsang gurus needs to study the ground carefully and this work is interesting in showing what we usually don't see, the tactics of guru manufacture. I won't comment on Cohen, but one might note that considerable procession of duds appearing in the West--can't Maharsi get his act together?<br />But their demands for spiritual authority are at no point an obligation on anyone, despite the immense weight of tradition here.<br />The guru phenomenon in this form is an out of date hangover from the Hindu middle ages and counterproductive at this point. A new approach is needed.	2004-09-16
519808:US	50592435	R3OVQH7E0I5AJD	1883319005	315215170	The Guru Papers: Masks of Authoritarian Power	Books	5	15	23	N	Y	Conspiracies against autonomy	This sensitive counsel on the dangers of the guru phenomenon is a key text and good as far it goes, but in the wake of the New Age generation we need more detailed information on the nature ofthe problem. A work such as this quite naturally picks up the case of Jim Jones and his cult, and while that is both understandable and appropriate, is that case really the crux of the problem? It is so extreme that it deflects attention from the more insidious types that prey on their cultic disciples with sufficient cunning to never get caught. One problem is that many who fall into guru traps are aware of a dimension straight deprogramming texts filter out and the warning never registers. Those confronting the legacy of Indic guruism spreading globally need someone to level with them on the terms of that world in itself, instead of the usual cliches about cults. Cults are a side issue. The real issue is the unstated denial of freedom in the great traditions of Christianity and Buddhism, and the occult conspiracies that back these up. We are fighting all over again the battle remembered in Kant's essay, What is Enlightenment? a text every New Ager should read before they sign their life away to Shri so and so or some sufi shark.<br /><br />Platitudes about authoritarianism aren't enough. These gurus are mixed in a strange mafia we never see. Gurus are always careful to coach 'surrender'. NEVER agree to anything, and proceed at your own risk. Steal a buddhist sutra and work alone in your basement. Check out Rudranandra' Spiritual Cannibalism to start figuring out why noone is much interested in your liberation and very interested in your surrender.	2004-09-16
520052:US	50592435	RO2MYAFERCGED	0805074007	932608591	Hegemony or Survival: America's Quest for Global Dominance (The American Empire Project)	Books	5	7	15	N	N	Hegemon and empire	I had a problem with the first paragraph of the book which threw me off for a bit--the issue of Darwinism and the descent of man. But, trying again, I found this book one of Chomsky's most cogent, the usual acerbic demasking of the elite system, and the Bush regime in particular. From the recent revelations about the near nuclear confration over Cuba in the sixties to the recent National Security paper on 'preventive war' (not preemptive war)we get Chomsky at his best and the shabby truth behind democratic sloganizing.<br /><br />The first paragraph is a very reasonable plea for sanity in relation to survival, but the quote from Ernst Mayr seems out of place in Chomsky's expose. Would somebody please tell the leftist bourgeoisie that the current Darwinian regime's theory of evolution is still another elite domination myth, and that its aggravating of tensions are one very serious factor in the conflicts that threaten us.<br /><br /> Important reading.	2004-09-16
527012:US	50592435	R1WDFPPFG57YHG	0231130104	126670859	The Heretic in Darwin’s Court: The Life of Alfred Russel Wallace	Books	5	7	17	N	N	Wallace's breakthrough...followed by Darwin	The place of Wallace in the rise of modern evolutionary theory and its confusions is always a contentious one, and the record shows the persistent, but let us hope, not permament distortion of the facts of the case. The record should show that Wallace produced the first version of what Darwin later got credit for. It's that simple, and any honest profession would move to correct the injustice. But not here, the stakes are too high, and the agenda too ambitious to allow that to happen.<br /><br />The facts speak for themselves and all biographers tend to 'fumble' the ball here. No fumble at all, it is a fixed necessity of compromise with the Darwin propaganda machine. Let us grant the excesses of some claims that Darwin plagiarized Wallace. Even so the sleight of hand pulled off by Darwin and his gang as to the Ternate paper should be a minimum charge against the paradigm dogmatists here.<br /><br />This useful and always interesting new biography of Wallace, in a recent slew of such, manages reasonably well to navigate the fudge that occurs here in all cases except those in the wake of Brackman's A Delicate Arrangement which attempted an expose of the great cover story here.<br /><br />In many ways, this issue of Darwin's rigged priority apart, this is one of the best of the genre and fills in a lot of gaps, especially as to the later Wallace with his ventures into spiritualism. Current scientism finds spiritualism silly superstition. No doubt this is the case, but the false reductionism of Darwinism in action is no less silly and totally fails to grapple with the far greater complexity of man known for millennia. It dawned on Wallace that the methodology emerging couldn't possibly constitute a theory of man's evolution and the way it has totally amputated its subject matter in the regime of brainwashing that has taken over the subject. In a context where to even mention a Buddhist sutra is to be called an irrationalist the true 'evolutionary psychology' of man has become almost a taboo subject. These tactics will come to a bad end sooner or later, and at that point the dissent of Wallace on the evolutionary emergence of man will come into its own again against the false reputation of that iconic imposter, Charles Darwin frantic for his priority at the receipt of the Ternate letter.e almost a taboo subject. These tactics will come to a bad end sooner or later, and at that point the dissent of Wallace on the evolutionary emergence of man will come into its own again against the false reputation of that iconic imposter, Charles Darwin frantic for his priority at the receipt of the Ternate letter.  <br />	2004-09-09
531932:US	50592435	RFMG3LV1H2ODB	046502761X	354042306	Boiling Point: How Politicians, Big Oil and Coal, Journalists, and Activists Have Fueled a Climate Crisis -- And What We Can Do to Avert Disaster	Books	5	33	37	N	N	In case you thought there was no ecological crisis...	You may have noticed climate changes in your cubby hole area. They should have warned you through 'normal channels' but they seemed to have all been wiped out. They used to say the crisis of the environment was only a matter of time, now the time has come and this book should be essential reading for anyone glued to standard sources of (dis)information. You know the time has come when Bush starts hemming and hawing on this issue. It's not a prearranged signal, but it's alarmingly indicative. In another decade they may change their story. Meanwhile, all the important measures are starting to spike and major lifestyle changes are on the table.<br /><br />Very important reading.	2004-09-05
532497:US	50592435	R2A3ICOB5RRNE4	1594200203	809431414	The Right Nation: Conservative Power in America	Books	5	9	41	N	N	left, right, left,...hup two three	Some interesting 'stiff upper brit' from two 'union jacks' at the Economist, to wit, an analyis of the slow retrograde shift to the right visible as the American system reverts to its shadowy 'alternate history'. This ominous portrayal of the trend taking many liberals by surprise is reasonably described by the suspected conservatives, the authors, and in another way unreasonably pitched toward making one think this is as it should be. What should be is clocked in more than presidential cycles, and takes us back to basics, such hoary years and ages as those of the French Revolution and the birth of the left in its Babouvian wake. The point being that a shift to the right might seem normal to some, yankee doodle from fans of American nationalism, but the stakes are higher than that, and a post-liberal American system doing empire in its spare time is of no use to anyone and will soon shipwreck. Thus, any complacency is misplaced indeed. To say as the authors suggest that the 'real' America is conservative is nothing new. These flagwrapped klutzes took half a centure to figure out that slavery wasn't democractic, so any signs of reverting to type should be the occasion for some alarm. The American experiment in democracy has two alternatives only, a progressive destiny beyond conservative inertia. The second alternative, who knows? May be time to bring back in the A team from the far left. Americans were cheated out of a social democractic alternative, standard for all advanced industrial nations, and unless it can make the grade better than what it's doing now, the verdict is grim. I recently heard a friend, a talented fellow, lot's to contribute, but no chance ever to do that, mutter that he'd be better off emigrating to get his teeth fixed. How many centuries do you think you have to produce decent health care?  That's a warning you only get so much time to do your 'world historical number', else you will be replaced.<br /><br />Useful survey anyway. I had thought everyone at the Economist 'bonkers'. Maybe not.yone at the Economist 'bonkers'. Maybe not.	2004-09-04
535128:US	50592435	R33ZQJKE7R89LK	0060582510	541105320	Deliver Us from Evil: Defeating Terrorism, Despotism, and Liberalism	Books	2	20	48	N	N	Rover barks for empire	Comrade Hannity's list of three bad guys might have missed one, guess who? But the evidence has been so filtered in the patriotic mind control system that most Fox News fans wouldn't have read a bit of Chomsky on the evils of the number four, which has managed better than the others by keeping despotism invisible to the naked eye.<br /><br />This curiously trashy piece from the right wind talk show machine is an unpatriotic pastiche attempting the conservative impossible: preaching democracy to undermine it. Take a bit of moth eaten Magna Carta and regurgitated Tocqueville with harps playing on Liberty versus liberalism and the impossible turns a trick.<br /><br />From now on conservatives who denounce liberalism should be considered too stupid to read a bibliography on the subject or else be suspected of borderline fascism. This fellow bears watching. He could go through a red light and cross the threshold.	2004-09-02
551905:US	50592435	R2HQRGK1IT2QNF	0061075582	455836514	Moscow 1812: Napoleon's Fatal March	Books	5	7	17	N	N	World spirit on horseback shot out of the saddle	Napoleon's final campaign is strangely relevant to the world he live in. Beset on all sides from reactionaries, the French Revolution graduates to the Napoleonic mode spreading the Revolution even as it apes its enemies.  Fastforward to Jena 1806 and Hegel is putting the postage on his tome as the great Legion arrives in town, that Kojevian moment. One can read of the great battles of the early Napoleon with distate, yet see the meaning of this era better from the tale of the collosal fiasco of the invastion of Russia. For we see what the stakes were and what ensued, a generation of reaction, the age of Metternich and the Tsar Alexander.<br /><br />I read this account with in second guessing mode: What Napoleon should have done is degree the liberation of the serfs as he crossed the Niemen, and he might well have scored not only a complete success, but rid the world of the subsequent era of troubles that leads directly into our own times.  One has but to see the outcome of Hegelian hopes in the world of Marx and the '48's.<br /><br />Very cinematic, popcorn optional. This is your book on this subject.	2004-08-18
560872:US	50592435	R2A4N5BXJLVRCQ	0312329113	524499669	Mullahs, Merchants, and Militants: The Economic Collapse of the Arab World	Books	5	8	12	N	N	A question of economics	Although a journalist for the Wall Street Journal wouldn't pass as an historical materialist, a stethoscope put to the economic malaise of the Arab world fairly threatens to uncover the prime mover of its current troubles. With a series of vignettes hopscotching through Lebanon, Syria, Palestine, Iraq, and Egypt, the author produces a significant diagnosis, with an emphasis on capitalist fundamentals that isn't market mania. Indeed, there is an ambiguity here. For all the emphasis on democratic capitalism by the West you have to wonder if these crocodile idealists with a nasty penchant for imperialism could havew done a better job crippling Arab economies if they had set out to do so deliberately. And the crippling of the economic potential of Palestine ranks as a bit of glaring contradiction to stated objectives.With so much money at stake in the status quo, it's better to blame Arafat.<br /><br />Beyond that, the social mix of dictators and elites in the Middle East as portrayed is not a nice picture, and the degree of incompetence shown gets the silver metal after the Western powers for sheer botch.<br /><br />The destruction of the Iraqi economy is especially depressing, as is the current American initiative amounting to considerable propaganda and the inability to restrain one's Halliburton compulsions. As the author notes, the systematic exclusion of Iraqi's from their own reconstruction fairly well shows the game in action, behind the market hype. The Iraqis had the electrical grid up and running in a few weeks after the first Gulf War.<br /><br />Briskly informative and useful account.	2004-08-09
561880:US	50592435	R2SZZAXDY5OCGA	1400048753	386400734	The Republican Noise Machine: Right-Wing Media and How It Corrupts Democracy	Books	5	21	26	N	N	Propaganda machine in high gear	I was initially put off by this book, not knowing the author had fallen out with his rightist buddies, but found the result once reoriented in my mind surprisingly cogent and useful. It takes research these days to watch the telly talk shows, and a bit of background/serious gossip can help.The assault from the right is so pervasive and sly that we are all practically Manchurian candidates gaping at the tube output from Hardball to Crossfire. The author has a lot of particulars in file and it is good to find him in sackcloth mode spilling the beans. Comprehensive, with details on all the media, television to publishers, and the background from Goldwater onwards to the rightist attempts to overcome their anti-democratic disadvantage with pseudo-populist dirty info wars.<br /><br />Good supplement to Alterman's 'What Liberal Media'.	2004-08-08
561975:US	50592435	RPIXEOEMGE0E5	0674078306	298513217	The Bolsheviks: The Intellectual and Political History of the Triumph of Communism in Russia	Books	5	7	7	N	N	First the Decembrists...	There are many more recent books on this subject but rereading this one was interesting for the way it properly places the beginning of the subject in the nineteenth century beginning with the mutiny of the Decembrists in the 1820's. The history of Russian Communism told in a void is misleading in some ways. The whole tragedy begins with the extreme reaction of the Russian system (before and)after the repression of the Decembrists and the poisoning of the faintest indications of emerging liberal culture. This forced the issue from the beginning and virtually manufactured the extreme explosion that finally came. All this also puts the Bolshevik era in direct descent from the era of the French Revolution and the period of the Restoration in the era of the abortive birth of the bourgeois culture. All of a piece. The rest follows.	2004-08-08
562168:US	50592435	R2AEIZE7YYU3V	0393050831	70730083	Jacob's Ladder: The History of the Human Genome	Books	4	3	22	N	N	In search of the evolution of evolutionism	Modern science has put a man on the moon, but for some reason it is incapable of a decent history of the development of evolutionary thinking. The author of \\"In Search of Deep Time\\" seems to wish to grapple with this problem and gives us some interesting background to the period before Darwin. But the problem is that in any such account of the history of biology the place of Darwin has to be left intact due to his iconic status and in the age of the genome that becomes difficult. With the discovery of the complexity of developmental evolution, we should have had a paradigm shift, a review of the limits of Darwinism. In fact this has occurred among specialists in the know. But the Darwin propaganda machine proceeds by Newton's first law. In fact, instead of this paradigm change we got the generation of Dawkins fundamentalism, a sort of paradigmatic hysteria attempting to forestall the inevitable. Gee seems to be hinting at this, and the interesting last half of the book quietly debunks population genetics calling for a theory of networks to deal with genomics.<br /><br />The record might show that the generation of Geoffrey St. Hilaire was on the threshold of what has resurfaced in current research, and that Darwin's theory simply doesn't hold up well in this new world.<br /><br />The whole field should be indicted for propaganda, and faulted for turning out an entire generation of wrongly educated students with closed minds.	2004-08-08
570535:US	50592435	R2PHR6E3CINLDS	0805073396	564190816	What's the Matter with Kansas? How Conservatives Won the Heart of America	Books	5	14	40	N	N	What's the matter with liberal class analysis?	With one caveat this is a superb piece of social analysis, and an expose of the real dangers of mind control propaganda being perfected by the conservative resurgence. It's a long way from the hope of the mighty working class banding together in its own interest to check the powers of capital. The influence of ideology as legitimation could not be more clear from this study. However, a dark cloud looms over the horizon for any liberal complacency on the culture war front. Since this Kansas was once, as the author explores it, a hotbed of Progressive politics from yesteryear, we should recall one of its favorite sons, William Jennings Bryan, whose later fate in the famour Scopes Trials makes us forget that he was a fighter on the class warfare front in the era of the Robber Barons. And he saw Darwin's theory of evolution as rank Social Darwinist legitimation. This view has been so thoroughly buried in liberal revisionism that we can forget that our Kansans, with their ill-advised susceptibility now to the Intelligent Design tampering with the school system, remember one part of their own history better than secularists. The point should remind us of why the liberal/left view is not going to suceed by insinuating that these people are stupid. They got one thing right. The Darwinian world view was foisted on liberal culture in the same fashion as that we see in Kansas. The title of 'stupid' sits uncomfortably on both shoulders.<br /><br />After the fall of the left, the liberal/left needs a whole new vision of history, evolution, and culture that isn't pervaded by the leftist mistakes of the past, the ideology of Social Darwinism brainwashing liberals everywhere being a case in point. The liberal view can't grasp where it is going wrong here.<br /><br />In general, however, this book is excellent reading.	2004-07-31
572291:US	50592435	R3UZ6OOI54SWZK	8420621889	51903956	Kant (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Critique	One of the shortest and best summaries of the thinking of the philosopher Kant, and it is a pity it is out of print.	2004-07-29
572426:US	50592435	R11H5R10MC7AKA	041511909X	100393913	Routledge Philosophy GuideBook to Kant and the Critique of Pure Reason (Routledge Philosophy GuideBooks)	Books	5	19	20	N	Y	Penetrating the labyrinth.	Correctly assessing the argument in Kant's first Critique is one of the most difficult exercises in philosophy and often overly stylized summaries induce illusions of clarity, when the real argument is in the background, almost too arcane to be grasped, and leaving one in the distressing condition of realizing one hasn't understood a thing. This account has to be the best of the lot, attempting without compromises to survey the whole majestic range. Good job.	2004-07-29
573150:US	50592435	R30FEJE8SZ0166	0521663814	589394841	German Philosophy 1760-1860: The Legacy of Idealism	Books	5	11	13	N	N	A Philosophical Apex	The sudden flowering of German classical philosophy in the generation of Kant and the aftermath of the French Revolution is one of the enigmas of world history. Gestating in Kant and then taking off in the 1780's and 90's this exploration and journey took philosophy to a height it has since lost to the vagaries of prgmatism and analytic philosphy. The author of the recent excellent biography of Hegel surveys the whole terrain up to the time of Schopenhauer, the last thunderclap of this storm. It is hard to cover this difficult and vast terrain, and if one is a student of Hegel, or else Kant, one will end up with half or less of the extraordinarily difficult totality in motion. The author has no Hegelian agenda to color the account and the result is a superb short summary.	2004-07-29
573188:US	50592435	R1H8TV81W87JE0	1573921378	103922759	Influence of Darwin on Philosophy and Other Essays (Great Books in Philosophy)	Books	4	4	23	N	N	Casualties of Darwinism	Whatever one's views of Dewey one has to wonder if the confusing influence of Darwinism is partly responsible for the inability of pragmatism to generate any real philosphical lift. Dewey's work seems to clock the approximate point at which everyone fell for the new Darwinian foundationalism, unless it was Nietzsche, or else Marx/Engles, who was the first. Does it never occur to anyone that philosophy should produce a critique of Darwin? The onset of idiocy here goes a long way toward explaining the decline of twentieth century philosophy.	2004-07-29
574207:US	50592435	R3TJZ9CMF029QH	0231131089	16222530	The Fall of the House of Roosevelt: Brokers of Ideas and Power from FDR to LBJ (Columbia Studies in Contemporary American History)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Help wanted: brain trust?	In the middle of the disorganization of liberal politics (the word itself is under attack), the portrait of the New Deal and the history of its major players makes this a book for the times, and a refresher on both the fate of Roosevelt's legacy and the neo-conservative reaction that flooded into the vacuum. The direct line of descent all the way into the period of Lyndon Johnson is a useful reminder of the exact point of chaotification.	2004-07-28
603971:US	50592435	R22V4J0E59V8W4	1403963681	657786037	Terrorism and Tyranny: Trampling Freedom, Justice and Peace to Rid the World of Evil	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Libertarian bloodhound	Critiques from the left sometimes fall on deaf ears and this fully exposed portrait of the exploitations of the war on terror by a libertarian is compellinng and doesn't sound much of a conservative note. Starting the account in the eighties with Reagan's first war on terror (which finished off his presidency in the Iran-Contra affair) provides some of the keys to understanding the current reaction to 9/11 with its pressed flesh density of spin doctors. No mystery the champions of liberty  found themselves crossing the line into the realm of torture from the assault on rights, privacy, email, with connections to the drug wars, opium in Afghanistan, and the hush up over the slaughter in Chechnya. This foe of big government that notes while the casaulties of terror number in the thousands, the casualties of government number in the millions. The book concludes with a history of the treatment of terror in Israel since the 1967 war, with its ultimate provocation and seeding of the tension leading to Middle Eastern terrorism. Thence to the phoney excuse in context for the Iraq war. After this fine performance it would be nice if the author were deprived of the label and booted out of the conservative movement--he sounds like Chomsky at some points. Lots of useful info.	2004-07-04
627051:US	50592435	R2EZ9VHHBITW84	1578051096	36557091	Strategic Ignorance: Why the Bush Administration Is Recklessly Destroying a Century of Environmental Progress	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Stooge of the robber barons, Mr. President	I'd thought the worst of it was that the Bushwhackwers intended to undo the New Deal era. But there's more, as this work documents: they want to scotch the entire environmental legacy beginning with T. Roosevelt's pioneering conservation activism, and his challenge to the Social Darwinism of the age of the robber barons and laissez faire. And why are we not all fired up? Because dubious Dubya is a brazen liar/manipulator, along with his media crew, and all the slogans are designed to paralyze the public long enough to get the stealth jobs done. The number of rollbacks on the environment listed in this book is staggering, plus other record breaking audacities, like suppressing the environmental reports of the 9/11 aftermath.<br />The author has a good epitaph for this presidency: laissez faire (caveat emptor) as to regulation, now, in the death throes of the Clean Air Act, laissez spiror, let the breather beware. What's a little asthma in a million children. It's the economy, Dubya.	2004-06-16
633411:US	50592435	RMHLONLP16IJF	1402202520	936823164	Fraud: The Strategy Behind the Bush Lies and Why the Media Didn't Tell You	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Wipe that smirk off your face.	The only way the conservative mindset can fake democracy is through fraud and Waldman's portrait exposes the game plan in action with the relevant details on Bushocracy. Bush seems to have discovered being stupid could play to his advantage as a cover for the deceptions necessary. In fact, behind this stealth operation lies a well-organized political machine with all the dirty tricks reduced to a new reactionary political science, a major piece of the con being the neutralization of the media. I was wondering what had happened to that smirk. Someone figured out it was bad PR. It's gone.	2004-06-11
649464:US	50592435	R1HI9Y2ZFISFG1	0745321178	645433331	Modern Jihad: Tracing the Dollars Behind the Terror Networks	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Globalization and the Swiss bank accounts of its discontents	Behind the headline portrait of terrorism lies a more complex picture of the underground economy of its exemplars in the shadows of globalization and finance hybridized with organized crime and the backwash of the old left. This alarming reality with its ability to exploit stunningly large resources is acutely portrayed in this well-researched and eye-opening depiction of the 'state shell' phenomenon created by these interlocked combinations from Columbian guerillas to the IRA to the PLO and Islamist groups of the Middle East and beyond. Although we can and must indict these consequences of capitalist and colonialist social Darwinism (and state terrorism) we find no Robin Hoods or religious mystics in these cynical gangs gripped by the phantom of jihad and their ample investment portfolios.	2004-05-30
649789:US	50592435	R1QJHZD417MPX4	1400050669	951260070	The Lies of George W. Bush: Mastering the Politics of Deception	Books	5	20	34	N	N	Coup d'etat	At least with Kissinger you have the shifty eyed looks telling you to watch out for a Machiavellian  cutpurse in action. With George II the whipped margerine style actually fooled me and the public through dumb sincerity and disingenuous mumbling of disinformation. The issue is clearcut: elected at best to bridge a polarized nation (with corrupt help from the Supremes) our valiant made in Texas proceeded to abuse state apparatus for the destruction of democratic gains, with a pack of lies well organized from the start and well dissected in this book, which is lowkey compared to Franken and other exposes, but highly effective and useful.	2004-05-30
658194:US	50592435	R317FN4AXIJF6C	1563382172	668308955	Paul and Empire: Religion and Power in Roman Imperial Society	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Genesis of a world religion	This book presents a series of essays on Paul in relation the Roman imperial world in which he moved and the result is a refreshingly different view of the onset of 'Christianity', something that didn't really exist yet at the point of discussion. The supposedly 'a-political' Paul focussed on the transcendent is suddenly living and surviving in highly stressed world of the Romans where the response to need, the revolution that is impossible, is met by rising 'ekklesia', which doesn't yet mean church, of the not yet 'Christians'. In the words of the editor, Christianity was a product of empire, but what became the established church of the empire started as an anti-imperial movement.	2004-05-23
664291:US	50592435	R24QFIRSMS0M00	0805074422	871647100	Freethinkers: A History of American Secularism	Books	5	6	23	N	N	A choice of fundamentalisms	Gordon Wood's The Radicalism of the American Revolution describes the way the attitudes toward religion of the Founders were confronted almost immediately by a resurgence of religion in the early republic, witness the experience of Paine. This brief launch window should make secularists feel fortunate indeed in their history.<br />Jacoby's fascinating account of freethinkers is an important history in this vein, but it leaves itself vulnerable to the question, what really do we mean by 'secularist'? If 'secularism' is on the wane (I doubt it, over the long term) it is in part because of the current narrowness of its meaning, almost as if it had been highjacked by a set of scientific fundamentalists and ultra-Darwinists trying to enforce an impossible view of reality on everyone else.<br /> A few curve ball questions can illustrate the problem: Was Luther a secularist? Then, same question, was Kant, and, finally, Hegel a secularist? Then try that again, with Buddhists. The term 'secular' is ambiguous, and refers to the rise of the modern and/or the triumph of freethought. But these are not the same. Agree or not, figures like Kant were trying to defend human autonomy in relation to religion without moving to an opposite metaphysical extreme that is as dogmatic as religion. We cannot try to enforce any single 'ism' to go along with 'secularism', as a triumph of pluralism, but that is what is currently happening, and confusing the debate with the obsessions of its proponents. This is especially true of the Darwin debate where secularists have placed all their metaphysical hopes on an unsound foundation and declared everyone else non-secular, a virtual gift to fundamentalist reaction which took off after Darwin, we should note. The sad fact is that secularism could be live and well if it were not in the process of being wrecked by its own fanatics trying to create a religion of their own.<br />In any case, a very good and useful history.	2004-05-18
665885:US	50592435	R3IB568MAO7QE5	0312308574	686715097	Paris Between Empires: Monarchy and Revolution 1814-1852	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Paris between Revolutions	Good costume drama history of the period from Napoleon first 'as tragedy' to Napoleon finally 'as farce', a better division being the colorful innings of the royalist hasbeens in flashback hallucinations between the French Revolution and the fiasco of 1848. Undoubtedly a period of creative ferment, many artists, and the beginnings of France's industrial revolution, one nonetheless begins to get the feeling, all this trouble just to get a republic on its feet, and then another Napoleon. Cap this read by checking out Marx's two books of journalism for this period, or at least its ending. Unexpectedly, no doubt far beyond the author's intent, the structure of Marxism comes alive as a response to this era. Industrialization and take-off, workers starving in the streets, class struggle with pistols, and the classic snapshots of the bourgeoisie beginning their glorious career, stock market statism. After so much trouble trying to float a real republic it is small wonder radicals started to see 'red'.	2004-05-16
666538:US	50592435	RU3M3VD3XMWON	0670032646	621157776	American Dynasty: Aristocracy, Fortune, and the Politics of Deceit in the House of Bush	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Dangerous symptoms, dangerous prognosis	Philipps' book, which goes well with his previous Wealth and Democracy, sounds an ominous note with its portrayal of the oligarchic symptoms besetting the republic. Althought the term 'dynasty' more than fits the insidious thing here is the cover, front, and appearance, which manipulates the tokens of democracy without the substance, the Machiavellian moment.	2004-05-16
666696:US	50592435	RWKBNIAYW7TH9	0375714499	38005795	Manufacturing Consent: The Political Economy of the Mass Media	Books	5	10	16	N	N	Critique of Economic Media	Ever since the term 'ideology' appears in the wake of the French Revolution its implications have haunted modernity (although an equal case could be made that it springs from the beginnings of civilization and/or religion, consider Constatantine's manufacture of consent), on the left as much as on the right. This book superbly carries the discussion into the present with its acute Propaganda Model and case studies thereof. The law of propaganda is too transparent in the totalitarian legacy, and leaves one unsuspecting of the subtler forms of media manipulation alive and well in the economy of late capitalism.<br />But it might also help to consider the legacy of leftist manufacture of consent, and before that the Hegelian candidate as it courted the Prussian world of the Restoration, leading into the stand up/sit down dialectic over ideology in the generation of Marx, at once exposing capitalist mystification, then crystallizing into 'late Hegelian' economism. The issue is important since the left is too often mesmerized by the remaining bits and pieces of the Second Internationale 'ideology' that so cleverly animated the 'myth' of Marxism. This legacy tends inject cliched sloganeering into social commentary, making it useless to progressives, and preempting clear commentary. In fact the discourse of Chomsky is well aware of this effect and successfully revives the essential critiques of the Left Hegelian era in a practical form.<br />The book has a fascinating bit on the early leftist print media of the early nineteenth century, a thriving industry, that slowly but surely succumbed to the new model of free market journalism. And it is interesting that(as pointed out in Desmond and Moore's bio of Darwin)that these newspapers were hot on 'evolution' in its radical phase. Then, of course, the estab Darwin came along and 'fixed' the idea of evolution with his ideological selectionism and Social Darwinism, and the greatest episode of 'manufactured consent' began in the field of biology. The problem is that they manufactured the consent of the left here, and by the time of Engels and after the confusions of theory and ideology were built into Marxism. Chomsky is (or was) one of the few Darwin critics left, let's hope they don't manufacture his consent here.<br />Great book.ld of biology. The problem is that they manufactured the consent of the left here, and by the time of Engels and after the confusions of theory and ideology were built into Marxism. Chomsky is (or was) one of the few Darwin critics left, let's hope they don't manufacture his consent here. <BR>Great book.	2004-05-16
667383:US	50592435	R1YY7BFWLFW8AL	0804744041	705610857	Leaving Marxism: Studies in the Dissolution of an Ideology	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Plight of a theory	Leaving Marxism? For what, one thinks? Market mania ideology? One problem is that capitalist ideology has become crypto-Marxist in its 'stage of history' inevibility thinking about the market order. So one should leave all of it, no? Another Fukuyama clone? One could exit 'theory' back to the dynamics of the early Marx, whose acute insights have outlasted the fiasco of the Second Internationale junk science.<br />This is a well-done set of case studies of three passages through and from Marxism, (Henri) de Man, Horkheimer, and Kowalkolsky of 'Main Currents' fame, and as always the critic and reverse ideologist has details not found elsewhere. One of the reasons for the failure of Marxism lay in the inability of its proponents to remember their own history, with the resulting loss of realism. It is unnerving to think that all or most of the criticisms of theory dated from very early on, almost from the 1890's.<br /> The book also has a chapter on the insidious and perversely effective influence of Nietzsche on the beginnings of the early demise, and one discovers in some surprise the connection of this to revisionism, Lenin's tract on the Machists, to say nothing of Mussolini and Sorel. We cannot blame that aspect on Marx. It is sad to watch this sordid aspect of Nietzsche, no longer fashionably seen as the reactionary he was, by the fashionable postmode devotees who can't seem to grasp the problem here.<br />It is good to leave Marxism in short order, so as to be able to see the real critique of ideology with which the subject began, before its critics stole the accusation, and reversed the charges.	2004-05-15
667868:US	50592435	R1JWXO2OTW71Q3	1573929948	620144151	The Science Wars: Debating Scientific Knowledge and Technology (Contemporary Issues)	Books	5	5	15	N	N	What science wars?	This is a useful collection of articles on the science wars, although it seems like the thesis has been set up for easy challenge by antithesis, and science emerges victorious once again, leviathan, heat pump, and the rest.<br />It seems the constructivist critique of science got off on the wrong foot and lost a sense of perspective, making the retort of science fundamentalists all too easy.<br />The point, or what should have been the point, is that current science cannot resolve all issues of reality, yet claims hegemony over all forms of knowledge. The science wars never go around to the main event. And it is interesting through the whole debate Darwinism remained untouched.  In fact, that angle seems to have been left to the ID critics, and we have Philip Johnson's essay on science, from Reason in Balance. But a critique of scientific methodology in that form is inadequate. So one can only regret the lack of 'guts' in the progression of critics from Kuhn, to Popper, Feyerbend, and the rest. Interesting enough collection	2004-05-15
674754:US	50592435	R1SNVSBGT22MMD	0226465551	138482462	Everything for Sale: The Virtues and Limits of Markets	Books	5	4	13	N	N	Marginal theory	This insightful, hilarious actually, treatment of free market mania and economics is important reading since there are few books around that can stand up to the legitimation tactics (Foucault stuff, if you recall) of the current theories. There are two questions, markets, and the theories that justify them, and/or make them worse than they need be because of theoretical obsessions that are really ideologies. Looking at the complex arcana in most economic treatises would leave most silenced in awe by the triumphs of reason, little suspecting that most  of it is paper airplane category pulp fiction.<br />At least economists manage to allow some critique of their subject (delusions can cost real money). The field of evolutionary theory needs a book like this, but unfortunately the domination of the paradigm there is so total as to allow no dissent at all in normal channels and it in fact costs no one anything since it all happened long ago and good for the dog eat dog economy anyway (real money) to be deluded in that case.	2004-05-09
674826:US	50592435	R2YKT0N5PFJX10	1403963541	123342960	The Future of Iraq: Dictatorship, Democracy or Division?	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Triangulated chaos	This work is like being dumped over the head with a bucket of cold water. Invading Iraq wasn't my idea, but if it had been I would have read this book first, I hope. Clearly the Vulcans at the White House with their videogame bravura who concocted their strategy were quite unaware of what they faced on the ground. After a good history of Iraq showing the sources of the problems in the ad hoc decisions of British imperialists, the book outlines the horrible options facing those attempting to unify and democratize Iraq. None of the options are good and the triangle of confusion between the Kurds, Shia, and Sunnis is a boobytrap that will require some hard thinking. The authors conclude with an idea for partitioning the country into these basic blocks in a federated system. It is not the least of the confusion that the possibly best option is barely an option at all.	2004-05-09
674919:US	50592435	ROVHBOWDB767W	0631146180	900686395	The Rise and Decline of Western Liberalism	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The L word	At a time when the term 'liberal' is being savaged by rightwingers (certainly liberals in the classical sense)it is useful to go over the history of the term and the subject and this book, which should be in paperback, is one of the clearest introductory accounts available, marred only by stopping just on the threshold of the Reagan era.	2004-05-09
675299:US	50592435	R3ME2WQ7FJVWOT	0553340824	123925451	Order out of chaos: Man's new dialogue with nature	Books	5	45	47	N	N	A classic on self-organization	This work is one of the classics of the breakthrough period of chaos theory, complex systems, and self-organization theories. Mixing two modes and two cultures it stretches its bow between the nitty-gritty details of dissipative systems, and the history of the relations of the human and natural sciences, from the age of the emergence of thermodynamics to the present. The book has something now routinely filtered from discussion, the early critiques of the Newtonian mindset as it was starting to become dominant. The material on the history of the two cultures would seem to fall on deaf ears these days, and gives the book at depth not often seen in works of this type. Very much worth reading.	2004-05-09
676213:US	50592435	R3Q94SZA5D2BMK	1893554260	746580538	Who Killed Homer: The Demise of Classical Education and the Recovery of Greek Wisdom	Books	5	33	35	N	N	Elegy for Hellas	Having majored in 'penniless student of Greek' in college I was surprised to read here that I was in what could be the last generation of this tradition. Although much of the diagnosis is open to debate, perhaps faulty on several points, the controversy has perhaps obscured the basically accurate point the authors seem to be making, that of the passage of a great tradition of learning. The author's indictment of the method of teaching certainly rings true. I arrived with a lot of advanced placement and my knowledge of classics peaked the first week of my freshman year as I ended in a permanent huff over pedantic Wilamowitz style philology and disappointed that that was all there was going to be. So university was at least an opportunity to educate myself in the Western tradition by ignoring the professors. Majoring in classics was a big risk, what a waste.<br /> This is such a provocative and interesting book that one need not agree at all points to find it important reading. And it is strange and sad a high tech civilization seems both unaware and indifferent to the disappearance of this form of education. Part of the problem is that for all its science modern society has no coherent view of history and the authors attempt to rescue the study of Greece from faddish theory is convincing. Their 'utopian' proposal to remedy the university graduate scene is radical indeed, small wonder irate colleagues counterattacked.<br />This book raises questions beyond its basic thesis. We need a new type of university educational system, that's for sure.	2004-05-08
676383:US	50592435	R3FWUDHWG26EC1	1591021766	380374679	Bush League Diplomacy: How the Neoconservatives Are Putting the World at Risk	Books	5	23	27	N	N	Cowboy politics	In almost every category the Bush administration seems to be involved in a srew-up resulting from arrogance mixed with muddleheadedness. This gang is radically disruptive and prepared to tear up even normal standards as political givens. This book recounts this brashness in the realm of foreign policy, and especially in the lead up to the Iraq war with the alienation of its own allies by this tough guy administration of PR imperialists.	2004-05-08
677448:US	50592435	R2IVRCDJJ64E5L	0375408908	612091253	The Working Poor: Invisible in America	Books	5	6	13	N	N	When work doesn't work	Admirable class analysis of the state of the working poor, beyond the slogans of the market miracle: the facts of the case two centuries after the Industrial Revolution. It seems that the American system will burn a hole in the Ozone before it solves its basic problem, one deteriorating in the 'years gone by' of the neo-liberal degeneration generation. One problem is that the Captains of Industry just don't get it, and after a while I get suspicious: they want it that way. I told you so, saith the Big M.	2004-05-07
685204:US	50592435	R1MJETLQPEUS2U	0226470911	145131450	Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire: A Visionary Naturalist	Books	5	2	5	N	N	The real history of evolutionism	The history of biology and evolutionary theory is rarely told properly or in full and the myths surrounding Darwin tend to drive out the complex development of the idea of evolution beginning in the eighteenth century. Beside Lamarck there is also the figure of Geoffroy Saint- Hilaire whose early intimations of embryological themes is only now being confirmed in the age of the genome and homeobox genes. This detailed history of the period of the early nineteenth century, including the account of the debate with Cuvier, should hopefully induce the writing of more accurate histories of the development of evolutionary biology. Perhaps someday it will dawn on someone that Darwin's theory was, if anything, a reductionist oversimplification that most biologists were too savvy to fall for.	2004-05-01
685241:US	50592435	R2UR541FG0K2TF	0393019683	647103011	Re-Enchantment: Tibetan Buddhism Comes to the West	Books	5	3	16	N	N	Too bad, bewitched again	We need good histories of Buddhism and Hinduism, and this work is another incremental bit added to the literature, worth reading. Tibetan Buddhists have reached Hollywood finally but have a nasty habit of getting chased out of one country only to invade another using their 'standard operating procedures', black magic and other nice tactics that leave their fans not knowing what hit them. You can almost spot the game if you study the Lobsang Rampa swindle in motion. It was the guru Rajneeesh who let loose the bombshell of the occult fascism of the Buddhist sangha back when and a lot of Buddhists I know are distinctly 'ex' and permanently paranoid.<br />What is the status of this religion, then? Setting up the usual exoteric museum piece in the middle of American culture is an expensive use of devoted followers who might find liberation in a less devious spiritual path.	2004-05-01
686671:US	50592435	R2PBTN260JRBUX	1560255560	282559023	Secrets and Lies: Operation Iraqi Freedom and After: A Prelude to the Fall of U.S. Power in the Middle East?	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Bottoming out at the bottom line	This book is good background to the current unraveling going on in Iraq and essentially prophesies what is happening. The equivalent of compressed news coverage with editorial critique it takes up a year's worth of  file copy minus the noise factor and disinformation that makes it hard to see what is going on. Tonic for the propaganda barrage.	2004-04-30
689457:US	50592435	R2K1U9UG6J5ZBQ	0465030254	824883567	History of the Idea of Progress	Books	5	8	13	N	N	An Idea in exile	This Transaction reprint of Nisbet's book is well worth reading although it is not the most classic treatment of the idea of progress, for which see a work such as J.B. Bury's Idea of Progress. Nisbet's book has an ironic history, having been written with a sudden conservative slant just as the postmodern critiques of the idea were in the ascendant. It left the author wondering in the second edition preface why rotten tomatoes were sailing overhead.<br />The obsessive rant by Darwinians against evolutionary progress is another factor in the twilight of view of history, more likely the twilight of the culture that can no longer handle such a foundational discourse whose lineage stretches back to the Battle of the Ancients and Moderns, or indeed, as the work by Edelstein cited by Nisbet suggests, the Ancient Greeks. Here the conservative rewrite of the idea of progress shows through Nisbet's treatment as he tries to bring in an Augustinian claim on the idea for the Middle Ages. That misses the point that the idea of progress gained strength as an affirmation of creative modernity, able finally to surpass the ancients. Despite a slight wiseacring thus Nisbet's book is always interesting and points to the immense literature on the subject, a la Bury, that has been unjustly sent into exile.	2004-04-28
692803:US	50592435	R36UITI8HJLBE7	0393323617	992492893	The Liar's Tale: A History of Falsehood	Books	4	2	17	N	N	Truth in exile and the Darwin deception	After so many books on politics and lies this season, this book seems to stage front the topic du jour, and the nice cover adds value to the book with what I guess is the Owl of Minerva swooping at dusk on Pinoccio in a dark alley near some shady characters. As to the main argument, it is interesting enough,caveat lector, but what struck me is that there is a problem with the author's treatment of Darwinism. Beside some precipice of disillusion the author proceeds, as one presumes, to tell the truth about lying,usefully brisk, but one fears that judgments here reflect the later history of those in the cul de sac--going, going, gone to the dogs. We live in strange philosophic times, if the status of truth is at such low ebb. Here, modern culture is at risk of being worthless, because it blocks development, contrary to the author's associations with evolution. We used to live in villages as yokels, but now the endless environment of deception is unavoidable and the resulsts are abnormal. With the rise of modern communications and the spectacle of endless politicians clawing for the mike live and on television for the right to fib  we see couch potato totalitarianism in action as the brains of whole populations turn into mush. It's not a normal situation, folks, and however lost a lost cause it remains to point it out the fact remains Machiavelli didn't get it right. Turn off the television, you are on your own.<br />But the main problem is the treatment of Darwin. The author of 'Grammatical Man' which was anti-Darwinian is now plying sociobiology and the relationship of evolution to deception. Surely this is a complete red herring for the plain fact of the matter is that there is a problem with this theory and it persists, we suspect, because too many of its proponents promote it as a deception, if not an outright lie. This is a good example of the damage done by Darwinism: it deceived the author, assuming he is being truthful. The author was right the first time, and in any case science, at least, has to be about truth, otherwise it is not science.in any case science, at least, has to be about truth, otherwise it is not science.	2004-04-25
695930:US	50592435	R3I339LKVQP2JM	1594200084	832726979	Occidentalism: The West in the Eyes of Its Enemies	Books	5	4	16	N	N	What went wrong?	One thinks of Bernard Lewis' book, What went wrong?, but applying its title to the West, instead of to Islam. Why would anyone oppose the great benefits of Westernization and concoct a thesis of Occidentalism? What would be the result if opposition to modernization disappeared? The results might be a catastrophe. Thus (perhaps)a kind of dialectic or play of opposites is at work.<br />\\"What went wrong?\\" is after all the question asked by Marx who tried to mediate the issue here in his classic fashion.<br />Then again, Rousseau, a seminal living contradiction mediating a critique of the Enlightenment and its realization as revolution, produced the core paradox, 'forcing freedom', and what went wrong with that is well known.<br />In any case, agree or not, this book fills a strange vacuum left by the very important book it echoes, Said's Orientalism. But the now classic Orientalism of Westerners toward, say, India has passed into a triumph of East over West, in one way, millions of Buddhists in America. And there a misleading postmodern strategy to completely undermine the whole basis of modernity as some phantom historical deviation. The pendulum swings and this text tokens one part of a vast discourse that might bring some sense to the play of opposites here.	2004-04-22
696423:US	50592435	R37QLM5W8Y1C16	074325547X	828250107	Plan of Attack	Books	4	13	18	N	N	Liberator or warmonger?	This wasn't the book I thought it would be, expecting another stick to beat Bushies over the head with. There is plenty of material for that, but the tone is generally favorable to Bush, with a sort of sly ambiguity beyond my tea leaves assessments.<br /> But after changing in my mind the reason for reading the book at all, it turned out to be an interesting documentation of something always top priority, why a so and so, president no less, decided to go to war, speaking to history, here caught in the act. And there, while Woodward gives us a good piece of documentation, of great value in and of itself, the mystery of what's going on remains. It seems this war was planned years ago and is somehow the fruit of a secret government we never see. One's paraonia remains. Here the book is less successful. But the account is very acute as far as it goes and somewhat unnerving in its portrait of the cavalier Alfred E. Neuman playing Machiavelli, with its strains of behind the soapy idealism, from small foibles and secret agendas great consequences may spring. It remains to be seen what the outcome will be.	2004-04-22
701839:US	50592435	R26SQYKQ88NMVJ	0060128291	114457943	Karl Marx: his life and thought	Books	5	6	9	N	N	A tragedy of theory	Although there have been more recent biographies of Marx this one still endures with its combination of simple narrative spiced with acute observations and comment. The lives and work of Marx and Engels constitutes one the great tales of world history and one is surprised noone has seen the Hollywood movie (seriously) in the extraordinary period leading up to 1848, and beyond. In fact, this early period, clearer to us now, shows a side of Marx and his thinking that was not properly understood as the Communist tragedy unfolded on the basis of the later Marxism, whose theoretical constructs bore the seeds of great confusion. Sometimes this is pinned on Engels and the crystallization of doctrine that arose in the time of Kautsky and Bernstein. But the problems finally stand at Marx's doorstep and looking at his life as a whole one sees the incoherence of his basic project, mixing Hegel and economic theory, catching up with him. The obsessive endless 'extra study in depth', writer's block and nervous delay, the inability to complete Capital, are a puzzle of the later Marx after the brilliant period of the forties and the Left Hegelians. It is therefore frustrating to see how his contribution has been effectively lost, and nearly impossible to get straight. It is worth remembering that at the time of Marx's starting point the American political system looked like it would never be able to abolish slavery, and that without the intervention of the left economic society as we know it now would never have happened. And as the post-Communist era has dawned we can see exactly what happens as the pigheaded rightwing bougreoisie gets free reign without opposition in the neo-liberalism running amok that we see in the American system. So the future of this corpus of Marx remains always in the background as a wild card of social theory, and unfortunately the dangers of bad theories leading to opposite results.	2004-04-18
701987:US	50592435	R3B87O0OTIR55D	0709941536	614731675	Darwinism : The Refutation of a Myth	Books	5	10	15	N	N	A classic Darwin critique	This little known work is one of the best critiques of Darwinism ever written. While the Darwin bestseller trade harps the standard line to ensure sales, this work x-rays the subject without compromise. It is regrettable that it should be out of print and available only in large libraries. Tracing the history of evolutionary thinking and the confusions of the debate and the Neo-Darwinist synthesis this is one of the clearest treatments of the issues that covers the technical details with competence and without an agenda. The author was a developmental biologist, which had its share of skeptics on Darwin's theory. This book appeared as the DNA revolution was starting to rediscover this perspective, yet keep the Darwinian twist on the subject. Small wonder the ID people took up the slack, but it didn't have to be that way. The author has no religious agenda.	2004-04-18
702005:US	50592435	RKQRIXZJVIZGZ	0786711922	926935315	The Real Eve: Modern Man's Journey Out of Africa	Books	5	8	29	N	Y	Upgrading &quot;Out of Africa&quot; theory	As a critic of Darwinian theory I always get frustrated by the presumption that current biology has a correct theory of the descent of humans. At one and the same time research is proceeding rapidly and the amount of new data appearing is amazing, as this highly readable book testifies. Challenging current orthodoxy the author proposes a new version of the single exodus theory, based on the tidal wave of new knowledge of mitochondrial dna. While assessing all the fine details of the author's account is not  easy for a non-specialist, the overall thesis is highly cogent, interesting, a sort of must-read as the debate between the multi-regionalists and the &quot;Out of Africa&quot; proponents takes a quantum leap in favor of the latter.<br />Something doesn't add up in Darwinian theory, and I am always brain-fatigued by having to compensate for wrong thinking in action as one gets new data filtered through the Darwin mindset. That's not so hard in this case, but one is left wondering at the greater implications of these findings. We don't really see the evolution of man in his diasporas, instead a whole new set of humans keeps appearing ready to go from somewhere in Africa. What's really going on here? The evolution of man is still the mystery it always was, but this book manages to move the subject into some new terrain and is well worth reading.	2004-04-18
702305:US	50592435	RSIYWHGYY7UBD	0679442529	861058090	Nonzero: The Logic of Human Destiny	Books	2	6	21	N	Y	Selectionism and directionality	Reprinted from reviewer's private reviews, Jan 2000<br />... Kauffman's At Home in the Universe is careful thus to distinguish his different processes. The fanstastic use of the theory of games is not evidence, but hypothetical speculation. We have no evidence whatever that genes for altruism arose through natural selection.(David Stowe, Darwinian Fairytales),and the theory of games, as a mathematical toy, however interesting, will not resolve the issue and is too lightweight to be a candidate for the 'logic of destiny'! This book is the second this year on evolutionary directionality to cite Kant's seldom cited essay Idea for a Universal History with a Cosmopolitan Purpose. It is not clear if he is responding to this other book (by John Landon, World History and the Eonic Effect)which answers Kant's challenge to find 'nature's hidden plan' directly through periodization and shows the only simple way to infer directionality as this can be taken in world history, data that springs from observations beginning in the nineteenth century. Evolution in history shows a clear global character with long range sequential and parallel evolution, a far cry from anything in Darwinism. And we see that the 'evolution of ethics' is presented to us directly in history if we can see it. No theory of history can omit this data. Wright's misleading treatment of the theme of 'asocial sociability' might seem plausible to some in Kant's at first puzzling essay, but fails to consider the background of his famous Critiques and also that this is not given as a solution but a problem to be solved. Kant cannot be made a Darwinian and was wise to the fallacy of mechanical explanations of ethical will long before the onset of sociobiology (although he would seem to have supported 'evolution').Along with this we find the obligatory citation of Isaiah Berlin and Karl Popper on historicism. Wright actually claims he will bypass their objections and find a novel escape from their strictures, but it is hard to see his answer. The total confusion of directionality and teleology is evident everywhere. The problem of historical laws is connected to the famous Kantian antinomies, the third of freedom and causality being the ultimate source of Berlin and Popper's views. To attempt a hybrid between natural selection and teleology via the theory of games is notably confusing and won't stand. The point is that there is no 'theory' that is causal unless you renounce 'freedom', this and a host of variants that were prominent in the golden age of Universal History. Evolutionists make fun of this and promptly fall into all the traps. In Kant's wake dealing with the evolution of freedom in explicit terms we find such as Hegel, lately Fukuyama. Sociobiologists are noted for their blundering in this area with conservative renditions of liberalism and fail to consider that one of the proper themes of historical evolution is just this 'evolution of freedom', which cannot be made scientific (and prone no doubt to whiggish confusion). The philosophers of history were at least clear about their subject. Wright's argument summons all the old phantoms of historicism and hardly passes muster beside Popper's critique of the original leftist versions.is hard to see his answer. The total confusion of directionality and teleology is evident everywhere. The problem of historical laws is connected to the famous Kantian antinomies, the third of freedom and causality being the ultimate source of Berlin and Popper's views. To attempt a hybrid between natural selection and teleology via the theory of games is notably confusing and won't stand. The point is that there is no 'theory' that is causal unless you renounce 'freedom', this and a host of variants that were prominent in the golden age of Universal History. Evolutionists make fun of this and promptly fall into all the traps. In Kant's wake dealing with the evolution of freedom in explicit terms we find such as Hegel, lately Fukuyama. Sociobiologists are noted for their blundering in this area with conservative renditions of liberalism and fail to consider that one of the proper themes of historical evolution is just this 'evolution of freedom', which cannot be made scientific (and prone no doubt to whiggish confusion). The philosophers of history were at least clear about their subject. Wright's argument summons all the old phantoms of historicism and hardly passes muster beside Popper's critique of the original leftist versions.	2004-04-18
704228:US	50592435	R3L14N7716ORS6	0765806444	536624620	Philosophy and Myth in Karl Marx	Books	4	4	10	N	N	Philosophy and Myth In Marx Critics	One of the strange secrets of Marx is that you can often learn more about him from his critics than from his defenders. Then ironically Marx's critiques, if not his theories which get in the way, often spring to life again. This Transaction reprint is like walking past an old canon on a battlefield and induces one to reopen old battles in one's mind to the point of rubbing salt in old wounds. One thinks of the Prussian official inviting Schelling back to the Universities to 'uproot the dragon seed of Hegelianism'. This approach to Marx critique wishes to uproot the whole of German philosophy starting with Kant (armed with Karen Horney's view on psychoanalysis, it seems) and that's both its weakness and curious eccentric interest. It's instructive to watch someone who has the nerve, almost naivete, to try. Hegel has a few dangerous themes in his work, and this strain entered Marx. Without agreeing, one can consider an 'expose' of a side of Hegel that is factored out of all treatments by his fans. But Kant, Hegel and Marx can't be lumped together in such a cavalier fashion. It seems at points like the book's real villain is Hegel. That approach, way before Fukuyama and his 'end of history' pastiche, would be rejected out of hand now that Hegel is back in the propaganda business, and it has to be admitted the author is perhaps off the mark on every other page. But every _other_ page is curiously apt.<br />The way in which Hegel influenced Marx and Marxists is a philosophical tragedy in itself as teleological thinking and potential violence come into conjuncition. To pin that on Marx and use Hegel for justifying capitalism as 'cunning of reason' is a bit stinkpotish.  Great confusion resulted from the attempts to graft Hegel onto a social-economic critique and a century of leftists have never figured it out. I doubt if this book does either, but if you want to survive at home plate you have to figure all the curve balls from different pitchers. If you are just looking for talking points against Marx here, you would do well to be wary of this book. The age of Freud on Kant has passed and these old fashioned potshots look absurd now. But it is a work every Marxist ought to read. And this book is and remains interesting, no matter that Hegel is now back in the mystification business and Marx said to be discredited.r talking points against Marx here, you would do well to be wary of this book. The age of Freud on Kant has passed and these old fashioned potshots look absurd now. But it is a work every Marxist ought to read. And this book is and remains interesting, no matter that Hegel is now back in the mystification business and Marx said to be discredited.	2004-04-16
709201:US	50592435	RYTNLRUYQJ008	031600023X	827119224	Worse Than Watergate: The Secret Presidency of George W. Bush	Books	5	98	123	N	N	Lie detectors	There is severe Machiavellian chill coming from this new book by John Dean. Beyond the actual facts a sense of dread haunts an author who certainly has some experience with the phenomenon of governmental deception. And really that's what the book is, a sense of the ominous about this government, important information by itself. As the author notes, those who exhude the atmosphere of public deception are those with something to hide and those with something hide are most probably about some business against the best interests of the public.<br />A warning.	2004-04-12
711501:US	50592435	R27V0YQQOWAXUO	074325337X	760100886	House of Bush, House of Saud: The Secret Relationship Between the World's Two Most Powerful Dynasties	Books	5	17	24	N	N	The Big Puzzle--and the missing piece	Into the middle of all the confusions, deceptions and disinformations of the war on terror, and Middle East affairs and commentary generally, comes the coup de grace: hidden connections between the House of Saud and the Bush cohort. The term 'fleabed' comes to mind. It seems less than surprising all at once that with such Byzantine minds something is awry with the overall strategy of the war on terror as the book ends with a conclusion close to what Richard Clarke has been saying. The account here contains a complement, and a missing piece, to K. Philipps' American Dynasty. After all the books exposing the Bush shadows, it was hard to be shocked any more. One goes limp and sits in a chair staring at the wall. But this book did it, and back to normal indignation.	2004-04-11
717614:US	50592435	R3QEL7FYATNR2E	0679443991	136864709	Reds: McCarthyism in Twentieth-Century America	Books	5	6	18	N	N	Roots of McCarthyism	Although the basic point of view is not always in focus, the result is perhaps for that reason a distanced if not neutral perspective, and otherwise a very good and helpful history of the era of McCarthyism, and the sources leading up to it. The aberration of McCarthyism is clearer in context starting with the Red Scare period after the First World War and onward, with Edgar J. always in the background. It's odd but true that by the time of McCarthy the era of Communists in America was already on the wane,and the tactics of the senator were mostly rank political exploitation. Extremely fascinating in its detail from the attempted 'regime change' of Wilson in the Bolshevik revolution to the Communist phase in Hollywood. The book was being completed in the leadup to the Iraq war, and the comparison of the post 9/11 neo-McCarthist tactics of the Bush administration seems an apt reminder the red-scare tactics can be adapted to circumstance.	2004-04-06
726199:US	50592435	R390H3I5EX16BF	1859846874	805633321	Science, Seeds, and Cyborgs: Biotechnology and the Appropriation of Life	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Mechanization of the world picture	In the wake of Fukuyama and Stock comes this low-key yet quite barbed critique of biotechnology, and, agree or not, it is a useful exploration of the issues in mid controversy. Although the anti-technology attitude of much biotechnology criticism is often beset by a peculiar lack of realism, in fact the issues remain controversial not so much because of the hallucinations of potential dangers, although these are likely to be all too real, but because of the false methodology and flawed foundation of contemporary science. Sorry, but it's that simple, or complex. We live in a strange civilization where the breakthroughs of physics made the smartest people stupid about man, and incapable of a viable anthropology. With this as a given we enter the danger zone of the most complex questions of man, human nature, and society with a cadre stuck on the basics, rigid thinking on genetic fundamentalism, reductionism, self, soul, and evolution. The basic incoherence of the whole gestalt is not seen for what it is. That makes this cautionary treatment the more interesting. Accused by one reviewer of Bolshie tendencies, it should be said that the charge is unfair, and the critique of market driven technologies through such dangerous terrain summons precisely that original critique of economy that gave birth to the original left. We are having our commons taken away from us once again, and replaced with capital markets, as the self and nature of man is being given the most pedestrian mechanized definition by those who mixing science and profit.<br />A valuable sweep of the whole field and worth study.	2004-03-30
730708:US	50592435	R3A3D9RGLBH0G3	1873797370	984333905	The First Darwinian Left: Socialism and Darwinism 1859-1914	Books	5	2	7	N	N	Guard dogs that didn't  bark	This interesting history of the 'first Darwinian left' fills a gap in the literature and is a challenge to the attempted 'sociobiologization' of the left by Peter Singer in his book on Darwinism and the left. The author rightly points out the problems with Singer's false jeremaid about leftist views on evolution. Unfortunately the left has always been confused about Darwin's theory (they aren't the only ones!) and the result has been a consistent confusion on the subject. The author here is careful to assert his allegiance to the Neo-Darwinian synthesis, and the selectionist theory, which isn't surprising, and the text takes its place in the standard critique of evolutionary psychology typical in Gould, Rose, and Lewontin. The problem is that this approach doesn't wash, and yields the debate to the ideologists. Attempts to set the record straight, as here, never succeed, because they bite on the hook of Darwin's theory, whose selectionist holy writ _is_ the source of the ideology the left should have exposed from the start. In fact, Marx did expose it, but his views on the subject never really clarified themselves, and the Engels and Second Internationale mania for Darwin ended up dogma.<br />In any case, the book has a lot of interesting material on late nineteenth century thinking absorbing Darwinism. It wasn't all 'Social Darwinism', or at least that's the author's take. The point should be granted within limits, but the overall argument fails, I think, because the original Darwinism was flawed. Let it be noted as long as you think natural selection is a valid explanation you will never see the ideology in action in the theory. The left has always fumbled the ball here, and Marx is on record (with his brief interest in Tremaux's weird theory) as expressing his doubts about natural selection. Naturally that fact is shunted aside. So, Marx quietly had it right, at one point, and post-Hegelian that he was, he was the last with a sense of 'universal history' to alert him to the fallacy in Darwin's theory. But the Engels infatuation swept the field and we are left with a left that is a laughing stock, the defenders of last resort of an ideology, guard dogs that didn't bark.<br />Anyway, the author's swipe at Singer is well justified, and rubbing the left's nose in sociobiology as a gesture to destroy socialist thinking was a reprehensible deed. Bravo, for that.him to the fallacy in Darwin's theory. But the Engels infatuation swept the field and we are left with a left that is a laughing stock, the defenders of last resort of an ideology, guard dogs that didn't bark. <BR>Anyway, the author's swipe at Singer is well justified, and rubbing the left's nose in sociobiology as a gesture to destroy socialist thinking was a reprehensible deed. Bravo, for that.	2004-03-26
733860:US	50592435	R27CLP5ZUGHCH6	0670031410	978709002	Thieves in High Places: They've Stolen Our Country--And It's Time to Take It Back	Books	5	8	13	N	N	Kleptocrats and other dot.gov maniacs	It's just at that point when you realized you've been robbed, and your first impulse is to contact the authorities. But if there's any truth to this book that's the wrong approach--it's the authorities, stupid. Moral: Ashcroft heads the vice squad (meaning the opposite of what its says).<br />Hightowers' breezy blast against BushCo is about the liveliest of the counterslaught underway against (HOWL!) and joins Franken's Lies Etc as left hook to right jab.  Get the message.	2004-03-24
734011:US	50592435	R2PGRC4NI1PQCC	0631231900	813299075	Marx After Marxism: The Philosophy of Karl Marx	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Ideology, theory, and the lefts	Even if you consider Marxism some phantom of evil it would be appropriate to get to the bottom of the theoretical problem case of its history and endgame. The reason is that the bits and pieces run through the blood stream of progressive groups attempting change as a series of half-understood fallacies which hamper correct thinking.<br />Rockmore's treatment of Marx here is therefore an interesting effort to return to the source and differentiate that from what came later.<br />That is useful up to a point, and it is true that Engels seems to be the source of a series of misunderstandings culminating in the doctrines of the Second Internationale. But it is not so easy to get Marx off the hook with Engels as the fall guy. The inuendo of smart Marx and dumb Engels gets a bit tiresome. All the problems with Marxism spring from errors in Marx's reasoning and the incoherent bits of Hegel. Figures of the Second Internationale have been dealt a bum rap in one way, since they were buried by Leninism. Who remembers that Plekhanov and Kautsky were appalled by Bolshevism or the several books of Kausky trying to expose Lenin. So, despite their confusions of theory, some figures in the Second Internationale were on the ball to some degree. We have been brainwashed to think Marxists were unable to critique their own ideology.<br />But the main focus of Rockmore's interesting text is on the complexities of Marx's development, seen as a philsopher in the vein of Hegel as much as an economist and historical materialist. The relationship to Hegel is a very elusive subject and it is here that the whole screwup begins. It never happens that anyone gets the 'dialectic' straight in its relationship to ideas of historical law or freedom and necessity. The whole mix is probably the number one best way to completely confuse disciples. Is it possible to ever get it straight, or at least free the left from the constant repetition of errors?<br />A very interesting study.	2004-03-24
740002:US	50592435	RIQUUBCWDAZ8C	156025128X	651596159	Without Honor: Crimes of Camelot and the Impeachment of Richard Nixon	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Still deciphering Watergate	The material here has been hinted at in several histories of Watergate, but this book makes it plain, that Nixon impeachment became embroiled in fear of exposing the Camelot shadows.  Whether the conspiracy to produce a sham enquiry was real, one can well imagine Nixon and gang sabotaging the attempt to close in on him by threatening to break any public judicial action wide open with reverse finger wagging about Kennedy's _worse_ actions, up to and including political murder.<br />Make my day? Done.	2004-03-19
741151:US	50592435	RTG6JOSR3AZ40	1887128840	969948196	Fortunate Son: George W. Bush and the Making of an American President	Books	5	20	24	N	N	Wheel of fortune	Expecting a full blast attack on Bush this biography turned out to be almost low key compared with the second generation of exposes now on the bestseller lists, and perhaps triggered the genre. Kevin Phillips' American Dynasty rather lands a forward pass from somewhere here. Proceeding from grandfather to father to 'Junior' every stage seems to leave behind a problem zone, mess, or blot on the record. The book is effective in simply telling the story without hysteria as the details mount up to a portrait that is unsettling, almost unnerving, with its question in the background--how did the system work to put his man in power? Even with its broad hints the book merely indicates the surface rustling in the bushes we don't see. After prolonged mental strain, I was reduced to hazarding a guess--Texas oil money? This guy is your employee, check his resume.	2004-03-18
742323:US	50592435	R2NG84H1Z6JQ0T	0553378449	61356254	Einstein in Berlin	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Einstein, scientist and pacifist, against a canvas of war	Focussed on the Berlin years this biography of Einstein has a lot of detail that moves in a broader dimension than the tale of the mythical scientist we see in most accounts. While the public 'story' is by and large accurate, a closer focus reveals some refreshing details, to say nothing of yielding some insights into how science is done, at least how science is done Einstein-style. From the discovery of relativity to the completion of the general theory a slightly different picture from the usual one emerges, as we see Einstein the intuitive problem solver more than Einstein the mathematician, a triumph of breakthrough synthesis. He complains about Minkowski's mathematical rendition, and behind General Relativity lurks Grossman. Einstein seems to be thinking on a different plane and summons the math to assist the gedanken experiment in his own mind.<br />Most of all we trace his path through the years of the first world war, Weimar, the hyperinflation, the coming of the Nazis, up to his final departure as Hitler takes control, interleaved with  his interactions with the physics and physicists of his time.<br />A bad period for a pacifist, and Einstein was in the frontlines for almost the entire period.	2004-03-17
747699:US	50592435	RQN43RL1A59F6	0765604388	436417068	Slavery and the Founders: Race and Liberty in the Age of Jefferson	Books	5	13	22	N	N	Thomas Jefferson, slave master, slave trader	Biographers of Jefferson and historians of the American Revolution have a dilemma, resulting in the inspirational dayglow treatment of their subject. Why should should anyone in pursuit of the facts have a dilemma, the facts speak for themselves? This is an invaluable portrait in greyer hues and contains the delete button data in its two chapters on Jefferson beside a detailed and very interesting history of the slavery debate in the period of the Constitution. Since Jefferson was a man of his time and yet also a man in an extraordinary time almost out of time, the paradox finds what we might expect, a man blocked and buffered in a semi-conscious state of contradiction. Skip Nietzsche, here's the dull reality: in a strange way the realization Jefferson was 'multi-phrenic' rescues Jeckyll here. Yet this makes Jefferson interesting in a different way, in a very useful book (that won't make the bestseller lists). Good piece, fascinating. Ironically rescued Jefferson from my nervous disbelief in many yankee doodle treatments. Makes him fascinating all over again.	2004-03-13
749587:US	50592435	R1YNCNPCMT8KQA	0385503024	417958158	World on Fire: How Exporting Free Market Democracy Breeds Ethnic Hatred and Global Instability	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Another view of globalization	We hear so much back and forth on globalization, pro and con, propaganda or otherwise, that we tend to think in generalities. This useful work gets down to particulars, and in particular the problem of 'dominant minorities' and their effect on lopsided development. It is easy to forget to form an abstract image of far away economic triumphs described statistically. Looking at the actual outcome in terms of cultural conflict shows a different picture and is quite unsettling. The author documents the extensiveness, globally, of this issue, as the account fairly well globe-trots the planet. Must read as an adjunct to any discussion of globalization.	2004-03-11
749754:US	50592435	R3H0PKEISR0U2Q	0312315600	636970772	Big Lies: The Right-Wing Propaganda Machine and How It Distorts the Truth	Books	5	64	83	N	N	...in proportion to Pinocchial proboscis	Next to Franken and Corn's books Conason's Big Lies makes up the third big blaster in the phalanx exposing the truth problem suffered by the current Bush admin as it fronts for fraud. Did these guys go into a huddle, or what? The exposure of organized mendacity is going into Red Zone alert. And none too soon. Let's hope the Right is caught by surprise this time, after a generation of repackaging Barry Goldwater in gumdrop forms that can fool the public some of the time--ending soon. Using the tactics of the Big Lie requires a series of carefully managed Big Lies and these are the only recourse for conservatives who have to survive democracy via befuddlement. I was reminded of an earlier work, The L-word, attempting to rescue the term liberal from the list of prime targets for the Big Lie. The attack on liberals is a puzzle of these neo-liberals--has the world forgotten the word's history? To attack liberals sets the crypto-fascist inuendo meter ticking. Be worried.	2004-03-11
756402:US	50592435	R2QRSPRP77RZNG	1930722222	780077173	Biocosm: The New Scientific Theory of Evolution: Intelligent Life Is the Architect of the Universe	Books	4	11	30	N	N	Cosmic Biocomics	This collage of theoretical explorations is as fascinating as it is (apparently) incoherent and gives a progress report on the current state of evolutionary speculation, driven by the unadmitted breakdown of the Darwinian viewpoint, a reality that can't be acknowledged in public. And that's the problem here. You can't have it both ways. It seems the ID people have Darwinists spooked and on the run, and while the elements of a new approach to evolution are certainly appearing over the horizon noone can summon up the presence of mind to ditch natural selection. Contradictory hybrids come into existence in a sort of frolic of wild notions. Now we have cosmic selection theories and Dawkins' selfish gene projected onto cosmology. Far be it from me to throw cold water on all these shenigans, especially since I find it all luridly fascinating and the book entertaining. One thing the author has done is to place the pieces of the puzzle, au courant, onto the table. Perhaps one can somehow fit them together, Darwin, selectionism, ID, anthropics, baby universes, exobilogical exhuberance, and finally a bit of Kant. I was alarmed to see the author confused by Robert Wright's directionality thesis from Non Zero with its total confusion and cooptation of Kant's essay on history. For, whatever we make of the cosmological foundations of biological theory the question of history remains inscrutable as far as current Darwinism is concerned, and Kant's essay points the way to the right question, and provides elements of the right methodology.(Cf. the reviewer's material on this issue of Kant) Current science simply cannot handle any of that,it seems. You can't hybridize Kant and Darwin. As long as the delusion persists that the descent of man was the result of natural selection the basic incoherence will persist. In fact, human history is completely beyond the reach of current science. It's not even in the right ball park and has degenerated from the insights of the Enlightenment. The result is a lot of confused physicists who are too smart to realize they are acting stupidly.<br />All this said, I enjoyed the somewhat disordered collation of theoretical ideas. The bits and pieces keep flying out of nowhere and I couldn't quite keep track of it all, and the standard appearance of the nonsense about sociobiological ethics mars the result. The overall picture however is highly intriguing, as an idea for the revision of current views around a theme/theory of cosmic life processes. But it is difficult to proceed without a theory of the evolution of consciousness, and there current science hasn't a clue.<br />Guess what! Modern science doesn't have a coherent theory of evolution. The author unwittingly lets the cat out of the bag. No wonder they have peer review.result is a lot of confused physicists who are too smart to realize they are acting stupidly.<br />All this said, I enjoyed the somewhat disordered collation of theoretical ideas. The bits and pieces keep flying out of nowhere and I couldn't quite keep track of it all, and the standard appearance of the nonsense about sociobiological ethics mars the result. The overall picture however is highly intriguing, as an idea for the revision of current views around a theme/theory of cosmic life processes. But it is difficult to proceed without a theory of the evolution of consciousness, and there current science hasn't a clue.<br />Guess what! Modern science doesn't have a coherent theory of evolution. The author unwittingly lets the cat out of the bag. No wonder they have peer review.	2004-03-07
764870:US	50592435	R1T536EOBO0AM3	0195161092	230133665	Nature Loves to Hide: Quantum Physics and Reality, a Western Perspective	Books	5	5	12	N	N	Seek and go hide	Quantum physicists are shifty-eyed blokes,with a tendency to talk from the side of the mouth. Studying their public communications I often get the impression they aren't telling us the full story, or else are simply talking rot. They must be hiding something, or else forced to fit a round peg into a square hole, or perhaps their subject is in hiding and they are struck dumb but continue with grammatical sentences. This charmer of a exposition of QM exposes this pyschology and brings out the unsaid 'scandals' of the subject with its trek through the possibilities of Whiteheadean philosophy used to resolve quantum paradox. Many might slam their shutters shut at that, but the treatment shows such restraint and grasp of the issues as to seem effortless. There are many ways to botch such a thesis, with Plotinus brought into the picture, but the account survives and thrives. After a clear exposition of the basic Bohr-Einstein-Bell difficulties, it embarks on a quite exotic tour of the Platonic aspects of the subject clearly present in the musings of Heisenberg,but filtered out of the current harebrained treatments. The problem, by the author's testimony, is the removal of the subject of cognizance from the domain of explanation, the principle of objectification. Next we look at Whitehead's notion that concrete facts are experiences rather than objects. Then this is used to reexamine the 'collapse of quantum states' and we are in the realm of the idea of the potential becoming actual. Now it's clear, a case of the phenomenal and noumenal. Current physics is in transition to a new paradigm, and this one is an aberration.  He ends with a quote from Einstein to Heisenberg about his allegiance to Mach, &quot;Possibly I did use this kind of reasoning, but it is nonsense all the same&quot;. And so evidently with QM, on its way. I will credit my suspicions from now on. You see the problem, how speak about this in the current environment? Better to go into hiding, or speak through the side of the mouth.the side of the mouth.	2004-02-29
765137:US	50592435	R11CJ3V3HVSSCZ	0520003276	605163014	The Greeks and the Irrational (Sather Classical Lectures)	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Greek Enlightenments	Surprised to see this old classic still in print, one can certainly recommend it, though with a list of debating points. Written in the Age of Freud the viewpoint is a trifle dated, yet not so, and wears well, despite the slight 'Greek on the couch' tone. It should not surprise us that the Age of Reason coursing through the Greeks should coexist with a great deal of Hyperborean tribal lore among some quite rude and saucy fellows, with their epic tales, animal sacrifices, Olympian divinities and iron weapons. Further, we overselect the 'Ionian Enlightenment' from a world far richer in content, one where Pythagoras sounds echoes of Indian religion, reincarnation was associated with the classic cultic mysteries, and the polytheism denatured by later monotheism flowered for the last time as the first version of the 'aesthetic state' so doted upon by Hegel, Wagner, and Nietzsche. The latter, after all, blames Euripides for 'rationalizing' the rich masterchords of the world of Greek tragedy. Dodds worries along with Gilbert Murray over this aspect of the Greek 'irrational' but we seldom realize that Indian culture and Greek culture in the Axial Age resembled each other more than we think.<br /> But more than that, it is our own conception of rationality that might be at fault. After all, between the high Enlightenment, Kant and Hegel on reason in history, then the instrumental reason critiqued by Adorno, we have no good stable definition of what rationality we are talking about. Homer's nod! What is the boundary of the 'irrational'? In an age of scientism, that boundary is miscast, and the Greeks remain to be discovered as a people with a balance we may well have lost! Always a fascinating piece of work.	2004-02-29
765734:US	50592435	R1K5QE8GYSMV4D	0670032735	748219420	The Book on Bush: How George W. (Mis)leads America	Books	5	46	51	N	N	The Goods on Bush	While paper airplanes fly overhead re: the case Bush, in the considerable literature exposing the administration, this collation of data takes the issues to a more detailed level and puts substance behind the charges with a detailed reckoning citing particulars from the budget to the war on Iraq. Good backup for the books of Franken, Corn, et al. at the crucial point where the election cycle is starting to take off.	2004-02-29
767018:US	50592435	R3LELEF7PVBISR	1591020646	282930042	Science and Religion: Are They Compatible?	Books	4	14	70	N	N	We have the power to brainwash, but which propaganda?	This is an interesting set of blow by blow essays (at least for a Martian anthropologist studying earth science), supposedly on science and religion, but really on the Darwin debate, with the inspiration of Galileo in the background. It also includes an essay by the ID theorist William Dembski who informs us he volunteered to join M. Shermer's Skeptic to be the resident skeptic on evolution. Since Mr. Dembski is quite unacceptable (one of those people who believe weird things) for this, I should volunteer myself, think of all the free snacks.<br />The book opens with the standard metanarrative of science's triumph over superstition from Galileo forth, in the raised eyebrow condescending mode (&quot;aren't we smart, why do all these people resist?&quot;). But somehow it has never sunk in that modern science is a failure in its mission and derailed with Darwin as it entered the field of naturalistic metaphysics.<br />In some ways, the tone here is fine. Scientists, after all, armed with four forces for a theory of everything are now beset with a fifth, the Templeton Prize money, which has lead to so many books with the word 'god' in the title, big business.<br />The refusal to compromise here is admirable, but the problem is not religion, but bad science, and the mystery of why the science world view cannot deal with even the ID initiative.<br />My next door neighbour is a Buddhist, and I showed him the book: Yep! 'religion' means Christianity. He is a physics student but said he was fed up with being classified as 'crazy' by a legitimating science world view. One would have thought Foucault had sunk in here. Science should know better than to let 'religion' mean monotheism.<br />Good book anyway, with material by Gould on the magisteria that aren't supposed to overlap, Dawkins, Dennett, Lovelock, and Arthur C. Clarke, plus essays by the ediotr Paul Kurtz from Skeptical Enquirer.<br />Modern science is a failure and has turned the best and brightest into idiots, run roughshod over the human sciences with the result that we are given two flavors, scientism and fundamentalism. That would seem inexplicable, until you realize that corresponds to the two largest budgets for propaganda around.<br />The moral is that there are many ways around the science/religion divide, but both sides are satisfied with this status quo 'debate'.hod over the human sciences with the result that we are given two flavors, scientism and fundamentalism. That would seem inexplicable, until you realize that corresponds to the two largest budgets for propaganda around. <BR>The moral is that there are many ways around the science/religion divide, but both sides are satisfied with this status quo 'debate'.	2004-02-28
770943:US	50592435	R2FR2AX46UYO17	8120816269	64242450	In Search of the Cradle of Civilization: New Light on Ancient India	Books	4	7	16	N	N	From Eurocentrism to Hindu-centrism	This is a very interesting thesis, and one to reckon with, but one has to remain suspicious of the basic reasoning given the difficulty of correctly assessing the evidence as rival agendas work it over. The older view of the Aryan invasion certainly deserved a challenge, but the desire to Aryanize the Indus civilization suggests a wish to cover up the long suspected possibility that the great yogas have nothing to do with Vedism, or Indo-Europeans. And the idea of a Saraswati civilization on a larger scale than Sumer and Egypt is again not reliably demonstrated as yet. The whole of the Neolithic period was more advanced than we think, but nothing compared with the structural,if not purely cultural, scale of the fist great mega-civilizations. It is an issue of scale, not simply content.<br />In fact, one of the great obstacles to studying yoga is the entanglement in its Hindu context and history, where, despite its great charm and endless interest, the study of the Vedas simply confuses the issue. As the Buddhists attempted to make clear the core teaching needs to be extracted from the syncretism.<br />These are still open questions. It may well be there is some truth to this new perspective, in the earlier prescence of Aryans of India, but it still doesn't follow that the world of Patanjali evolves from Vedism. And the telltale signature of layers is clearly evident in later Hinduism, with its traces of the Siva cult.<br />Another (speculative) version of all this simply sees the Aryan appearance earlier than thought, but still finding an indigenous culture going as far back as the early Neolithic with religious elements that are pre-Vedic. In fact, Danielou in his History of India suggests something like this. The strange combination of advanced spiritual teaching (perhaps older still) and a Neolithic culture context with its cults of Siva makes as much sense.<br />Anyway, this provocative book is an important study, taken in neutral without the claims it has already been proven.been proven.<BR>	2004-02-25
773535:US	50592435	RIRSQMVKM4PH7	0060097728	508502036	Doubt: A History: The Great Doubters and Their Legacy of Innovation from Socrates and Jesus to Thomas Jefferson and Emily Dickinson	Books	5	7	19	N	N	Dubito...	Doubt resurfacing in modern times hath wrought more in the way of liberating the human mind that millennia of faith--that much is clear, and this sea-breeze account of its history will leave the faithful gnawed at, if they read it. From the Charvakas of India in the time of Buddha, to current post-7/11 Ibn Warraq and his skepticism about Islam, the legacy endures, but is truly born in the modern period, the early modern in fact. One problem for the skeptical mind is the dialectical crisis he might provoke for himself, if his doubts are the horn of a dilemma too liable to whiplash as it reaches its limit and returns toward the opposite of the opposite. And the atheist's doubt is subject to its antagonist's definition of what is to be doubted, the fatal embrace. The dilemma itself is the next problem for the pilgrim doubter. Kant lurks in the shadows here, codifying the mind's mental mechanics ('dialectic of illusion')as it 'Ideas of Reason' sing their siren calls. In the era of doubt, the doubts about something like Darwin's theory are repressed and the non-doubted attempts his comeback. But the outstanding laundry list of beliefs open to doubt remains long. Even now the foul or fair disease produces a symptomology in the world of Islam.<br />Lots of interesting detail, and an abbreviated world history to boot.	2004-02-23
774148:US	50592435	R1SDANM10O92ZC	0874777305	562307193	The Future of the Body: Explorations Into the Further Evolution Of Human Nature	Books	4	11	38	N	N	Who is the subject of evolution?	With some reservations I found this compendium of disparate information a useful survey and a flying question mark about the meaning of the term 'evolution', a term long since fallen into a ditch whence it stumbles forth into still more confusion, with a black eye from the brain-dead Darwin debate. The number of wild pitches (the phantom index in most such books being high)is not out of hand. The New Age attempts to define the term 'evolution' are at their best as an indirect comment on Darwinian versions, but fail as soon as they attempt to remap its meaning in 'spiritual' terms. Nevertheless this text indicates the only avenue of approach, which is to map out just what creature it is that we are supposed to be explaining. And the answer is that we don't know. The temporary ongoing 'conclusion' is that we can't produce a theory of evolution because we haven't the foggiest what man's 'evolutionary psychology' really is. But one thing is clear, Darwinism is very far off the mark, and the current ostrich style of pontificating the subtle side of man out of existence in the name of Darwin's phoney theory can't go on forever. Or maybe it can. Scientists simply don't respond to suggestions that they don't have a grip on man, and who man is.<br />The standard problem with books like this (and this one is much better than most)is the 'passing of bad pennies', sudden passages of garbage in, garbage out. That is, metaphysical versions of occult or other 'spiritual' phenomena. The road is long and hard here, but, taken with reserve, we have grounds for protest at the amputation of man being enforced in an age of Big Science dogma.<br />One problem is that New Age thinking has spawned a category of 'self-evolution' and this has become the favorite of many gurus, and others. This attempt to appropriate the word 'evolution' adds still more confusion. The problem is that 'evolution' is confused with 'self-realization', the evolution of that self being unknown, a mystery of the descent of humans in the Paleolithic. Sometimes evolution and involution are confused or braided together. It is not true that realized men have a better understanding of evolution. Indeed, the legacy of gurus show they can't reckon their own history,let alone the large scale development of the species man. It is worth noting the legacy of German classical philosophy, as this suggests, prior to such figures as Hegel, the 'noumenal' aspect of the conscious subject. That insight might be helpful in putting the labyrinth in perspective, for the New Age field is littered with metaphysical zoo items mixed with the genuine insights into the sheer complexity of human nature that make the 'sociobiology crammed down our throats' an episode of primitive hi-tech cavemen. The implications of the Axial Age concept and data give one hint of the scale of 'macro evolution' that transcends even the insights of the Enlightened, for there we see the 'generated' aspect of world religion, acting beyond the realm of the oblivious yogi, what to say of the mechanized monotheist.<br />Usefully provoking book, taken with considerable caution.ent of humans in the Paleolithic. Sometimes evolution and involution are confused or braided together. It is not true that realized men have a better understanding of evolution. Indeed, the legacy of gurus show they can't reckon their own history,let alone the large scale development of the species man. It is worth noting the legacy of German classical philosophy, as this suggests, prior to such figures as Hegel, the 'noumenal' aspect of the conscious subject. That insight might be helpful in putting the labyrinth in perspective, for the New Age field is littered with metaphysical zoo items mixed with the genuine insights into the sheer complexity of human nature that make the 'sociobiology crammed down our throats' an episode of primitive hi-tech cavemen. The implications of the Axial Age concept and data give one hint of the scale of 'macro evolution' that transcends even the insights of the Enlightened, for there we see the 'generated' aspect of world religion, acting beyond the realm of the oblivious yogi, what to say of the mechanized monotheist. <BR>Usefully provoking book, taken with considerable caution.	2004-02-23
775214:US	50592435	R2RWMM353TSVFJ	0345391691	920269539	The Battle for God	Books	3	9	26	N	N	No second Axial Age	Different perspectives lead to different sets of facts, and this account of fundamentalism couldn't have be written by a secularist. Of value then to a secularist student of the puzzle of resurgent religion at a time when the forces of modernity are under assault by postmodern initiatives--or fantasies. Armstrong's history makes good reading then as an exercise to reroute perception, at least momentarily, toward the complexities of modern religious culture filtered out of standard historiography. A useful history for that reason and yet the author's attitude is ambiguous and seems quite sly in its unstated 'egging on' the whole phenomenon.<br />At a time when the author is promoting the idea of a second 'Axial Age' we are left to wonder. The point is relevant to the frequent out of focus references to this idea of Karl Jaspers, here at the beginning of the text.It is worth considering what Jaspers said, and then looking at the phenomenon of the Axial period to ask what the phenomenon was, and what it means. To say that the Axial period is associated with the emergence of some idea of transcendence in relation to religion is misleading and finally false. The Axial Age produced two religions, one theistic, and one atheistic, a great deal of philosophy, Chinese, Indian, and Greek, the first stage of the scientific revolution, and the Ionian Enlightenment, along with the world's first democracy. It is thus incorrect to say the phenomenon has an intrinsic relation to religion at all. Therefore the suggestion that fundamentalism might somehow be evidence of a postmodern second Axial Age is far off the mark. In general the resurgence of fundamentalism shows that the only real candidate for a 'second Axial Age' is the rise of modernity itself, one that is being countered by retrograde social forces, a point that should be obvious from the facts of the case, albeit obvious to a secularist. This consideration shows a wrong analysis of Armstrong's own data. We can see the problem in here statements about logos and mythos, which are mostly sophistical, if not malarky. Collating logos and mythos in conjunction is a recipe only for dismantling clear thinking and indulging in religious propaganda (mythos). In general the wrong idea of the Axial period is vitiating all Armstrong's histories, time to focus on the original usage of Jaspers, which unfortunately is itself flawed, but which is at least the source of the idea. Cf. also the reviewer's material.em in here statements about logos and mythos, which are mostly sophistical, if not malarky. Collating logos and mythos in conjunction is a recipe only for dismantling clear thinking and indulging in religious propaganda (mythos). In general the wrong idea of the Axial period is vitiating all Armstrong's histories, time to focus on the original usage of Jaspers, which unfortunately is itself flawed, but which is at least the source of the idea. Cf. also the reviewer's material.	2004-02-22
778713:US	50592435	RTCQSHNYW4QKJ	1859843824	583999917	Late Victorian Holocausts: El Niño Famines and the Making of the Third World	Books	5	16	21	N	Y	For the record	Marxists are routinely (and not surprisingly) confronted with the effects of their acts and theories. Yet the market system is never confronted with the facts of the case, nor are these allowed to impinge with any critique of ideology. Anyone with reveries intact here should read this book, a very well done account of the interaction of global climate (the El Nino phenomenon in action, by hypothesis), colonialism, and imperialism. A sort of Black Book of capitalism. Add fifty million to King Leopold's ten and we are not far short of the Bolshevik world record. The vignettes and detail here are excellent, a gripping tour into archival amnesia.	2004-02-19
781206:US	50592435	R1QS7PIU2HQECF	1573920878	125362965	But Is It Science?: The Philosophical Question in the Creation/Evolution Controversy (Frontiers of Philosophy)	Books	4	6	22	N	N	But is it ideology?	Even for a Darwin skeptic this is a useful collection of pieces dealing with Darwinism, and also includes material on Karl Popper, along with the philosopher of science Laudan on Judge Overton. The essays by Laudan and Popper are a reminder that when you actually check the particulars of evolutionary theory things don't really add up. Popper clearly pointed to the problem. But given the ideological fixation, and the infrastruture of sophistries to back that up, mere epistemological difficulties don't even register on the reality meter, long since switched off by Darwinists.	2004-02-17
787271:US	50592435	R22WXKTP1BPKAZ	0226293742	823183999	Charles Darwin and the Problem of Creation	Books	5	3	9	N	N	Charles Darwin and the Creation of a Problem	Pegged around the twin themes of Foucault's epistemes and Kuhn's paradigms this cameo history places Darwin in the context of the Paley generation yielding to an age of positivism. This is a tale which is difficult to tell since the science bard chanting the mythical saga of the foundational moment seldom gets any further than epic mode in the stages of knowledge given by the Positivist Comte. Comte's stages, which people apparently took seriously, are highly misleading and don't correspond to a real picture of knowledge evolution. How speak of positivism if the result is a new myth for an age of science?<br />But this is a good history of Darwin's period and the naive triumph of Darwin's too limited theory, whose main effect was simply to a banishing ritual for the design argument.<br />That the division by episteme is oversimplified should be seen from the loss of substance in the period from Kant via Lamarck and Chambers to Darwin. The epistemic spectrum is reduced to the paltry pseudo-dialectic of the propagandists Darwin and Paley. Trying to overcome purposive explanation via natural selection was an imaginary triumph.<br />The attempt to judge the issue of Kuhn is virtually impossible for one immersed in such. If ever there was a Kuhnian transition followed by frozen brain syndrome it was the Darwinian Revolution (with all due respect to Bowler's Darwinian Non-Revolution). In a word the positivist methodology was inadequate for the job.<br />This is a good historical account in any case.	2004-02-13
789162:US	50592435	R35DN49HO2VUIF	0791445283	845824063	Spiritual Titanism: Indian, Chinese, and Western Perspectives (SUNY series in Constructive Postmodern Thought)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Watch out, New Age godmen in a traffic jam	I don't think this book is the last word on a complex subject,but after a generation of the New Age movement it is time to have a time out on godmen, for some hard data of what's what here. The issue of titanism and Indian religion is no academic issue, indeed almost a life and death matter for some, who cannot asses the claims, powers, and dangers of these types, their character, symptoms, crimes and exploitations. Be wary indeed of those proceeding in this vein. So this book is at least a compass reading toward the literature, traditions and and pitfalls. If someone on your block tries to pull rank with a claim to be a godman, remember you have the right to puke on sight.<br />That said, the view of the Christian 'well flogged slave' who is programmed to find claims of divinity arch-hybristic is not the full picture. Perhaps there is a lot of truth to that, but the issue is not properly assessed by monotheistic religions.  In any case this is an interesting book, good show.	2004-02-11
789567:US	50592435	R12L2PWD7MA769	0822314703	766930457	The Unvarnished Doctrine: Locke, Liberalism, and the American Revolution	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Deciphering the American Revolution--and its historiography	A useful summary and critique of the changing paradigms of the historiography of the American Revolution as it shifts ground between the Lockean interpretations and the more recent revisionist accounts based on the issues of civic republicanism<br />proposed by Pocock in his Machiavellian Moment. Another work similar to this is Diggins' The Lost Soul of American Politics (and also On Hallowed Ground). The view of Locke from the left (entirely useful up to a point) has long created a kind of mental block as to this seminal figure, but it was hard to disown him from his seminal place in the generation of modern liberalism, and it is just as hard to see how Machiavellian republicanism can be taken as a substitute. But then that's the debate, and a review of the different perspectives is well served by this reflective account, among others.	2004-02-11
796196:US	50592435	R1365TWEQ2AX5W	1572305916	624062218	Eight Eurocentric Historians	Books	5	5	14	N	N	Failure of a genre	Despite the problems with Jim Blaut's own methodology, his critical expose of the genre of 'rise of the modern' theory is actually indispensable reading for anyone exploring the field, and for theorists in this area, who probably wouldn't condescend to bother with him. One needs to figure out the secret of Blaut's success behind his own questionable alternative thesis which isn't actually the reason for the acute insights of his eight successful critiques, one after another.<br />It seems to me that Blaut succeeds for a reason evident in his other book, on the 'European Miracle', where he skewers Eric Jones, but with a cryptic sense that he is dealing with a problem in evolutionary discontinuity. That insight, and not only the exploitation thesis of World System theory, is what leads him so remarkably to spot the flaws in so many 'sophisticated' tracts from different scholarly viewpoints. This statement would require more elaboration than is possible here, but the issue is to consider the rightness of Blaut's criticisms without necessarily agreeing to all the other premises of his perspective. This is, for the 'pros' in this field, a 'no kidding' mongoose in action. Blaut's mentor, A. Frank, hit on another aspect of the problem, in his book on world history and systems theory applied to the last five thousand years. Minus the economic materialism, we can see that the 'rise of the West' requires a radically altered viewpoint, that of universal history. But that's another story, and Blaut's book is a significant, if also flawed, way station on the way to some new way of thinking about history.	2004-02-06
799644:US	50592435	R376076OCHCZY9	0877229236	13939923	How Holocausts Happen: The United States in Central America	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Moral indifference	This very acute work tells two tales, that of the Holocaust, and of the imperialism of the United States in Central America. Although some might disagree with the author's Holocaust interpretation it is well reasoned and documented. But his basic point is unsettling: We say 'never again' to the Holocaust, yet we barely register what has happened in Guatemala, El Salvador in the past generation. If we wonder at the reason Germans were passive during the era of Hitler, we should find an example in our own behavior.	2004-02-03
801958:US	50592435	R1CB9M8APQ9C03	000686225X	395034261	There to Here: Ideas of Political Society, John Locke and his Influence on 300 Years of Political Theory	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Locke, Levelers and ur-Liberals	Handy little history of the influence of Locke on the history of political philosophy, with as good snapshots of those downstream in his influence, up to Hegel and Marx. \\"Locke's significance has slipped into some pavement in history and become lost\\". Perhaps, but as a principal source of ideology he thrives in the background, yet isn't quite the figure we think. We take Locke in soundbites or Marxist burial services, and live in the cocoon created in the nineteenth century, as philosophy declined in the coming of scientism. Ideology apart, one is struck by the loss of clarity in later debates, in part because the loss of the natural rights tradition, and the 'stammering' that overtakes discussion of its key presence in certain vital documents, the Declaration. Despite the Hegel renaissance it is nice to hear an old-fashioned potshot at Hegel, who mesmerized entire cadres, including Marx. Thence, the cocoon is spun with Enlightenment materialism, and the generation of Comte. The treatment of Marx, Weber, Durkheim at the end is 'old-fashioned' but interesting. The secrets of Marx are apparently known only to his (intelligent) critics. One moral is the inadequate character of the resulting 'social science'. Everyone has a bad 'theory', often influenced, or thrown off track, by evolutionary pseudo-explanation. It is unsettling (ideological questions apart)to see how these seminal figures had a better set of thought elements to solve problems that the social science that came later.	2004-02-02
803356:US	50592435	R1P5QY0Q4ZYZHZ	0674530179	751827374	Liberalism and Its Discontents	Books	5	1	16	N	N	People of the 'L' word	Tracing the archaeology of liberalism the tale of its discontents is the autobiography of the primordial lockean and his pilgrim's progress since Roosevelt onwards. Like deviations around the mean, the grumblers and near party linears receive a series of shaggy dog stories for their spicy 'deviations'. I went to library looking for Ruggiero's History of Liberalism but came home with this instead, more fun. Lately, the number of shaggy dogs is increasing exponentially given the Bush regime and the discontents could mutate into malcontents. Meanwhile liberalism lumbers ever onward, an ism that has taken more torpedoes than most, yet without sinking.	2004-01-31
803443:US	50592435	R2ZJ031D6CLCUM	1568582366	243232758	The Spinster and the Prophet: H.G. Wells, Florence Deeks, and the Case of the Plagiarized Text	Books	5	0	7	N	N	Palimpsest with a difference	H.G.Wells' Outline of History rings more than one bell from some forgotten toddler era of one's paidaia and it comes as a shock to discover this complot behind the original bestseller, and still for many in small town public libraries their intro to world history. It is therefore significant to have record set straight. The author revives the nearly misplaced story of Florence Deeks and her manuscript's fate at the hands of her publishers and presents the convincing case for Wells' use of the text as an 'outline' prefab and accelerant for his otherwise unaccountable haste in producing his very long work. There is a curious sort of last judgment at least--the facts of the case resurface to expose the deed to history and memory. Well done sherlocking.	2004-01-31
811566:US	50592435	R17Z2L56FR6WR8	0226493113	344275957	Prisoners of Shangri-La: Tibetan Buddhism and the West	Books	5	6	16	N	N	Lost horizons	Refreshing and insightful take on the coming of the Buddha circus to the West, with a knuckle ball twist attempting to 'deconstruct' the perceptions of Westerners on Tibet. The sudden surge of Buddhism in the Americas, with outstanding issues like, should we cede the Rockies to the Tibetans? is an historical surprise and also a puzzle of New Ages, old ages inside these New Ages, and what _is_ the New Age? In the meantime the recreation of Tibetan religion inside American culture is preposterous, yet apt, although one wonders if these forms can survive the passage. Nothing much constitutes a bed of roses and where the Buddhas point to the moon, the dark side of the force can't be far behind. As a mere trifle in this regard, the amusing out in front history of the Lobsang Rampa story/fraud, and the curiously timely appearance of this series of Instant Tibet Myths just as a public was needed for the travelling circus, makes good sixties nostalgia reading. Most kids on my block had their roller skates on with this one back when. Lobsand Rampa would have been a giveaway if it hadn't been a decoy--right? In the meantime the cultural history of the blend of Buddhism and Tibetan religion is a first class anthropological mystery story, and this survey of many of the issues is good reading. The problem is that someone decided they had to divide a subject into exoteric and esoteric versions of one and the same version, with the result that sitting ducks won't know what hit them when the time came. In the meantime the Chinese treatment of Tibet remains an outrage and one can only hope the author's strategy of demystifying Tibet to induce realism will prove successful. Interesting book with lots of good notes and leads.	2004-01-25
811851:US	50592435	R378OYR6O0PPGY	0521387086	725607848	Kant's Theory of Freedom	Books	5	19	23	N	N	What is man?	The Kantian treatment of the idea of freedom, and its relation to Kantian morality and the theme of practical reason, is one of the great moments in both world philosophy and world history, but is virtually banished from discourse now as Darwinism, pragmatism, analytic philosophy, or pop freudianism recycled rule the waves. The subject as seen here seems a lost treasure hunt story for an outsider, standard fare of course for this field, and very well done, linking together different stages of Kant's development where too many discussions finesse one part in isolation. Allison's restatement of something like the original Kantian view taken straight, after the analytic era and the modified Kantianism of commentators like Strawson, is as interesting as it is complicated, yet starkly clear in outline, if not always easy to follow. The broad outlines are majestic, even if we thought the result unsuccessful. Who was successful? The thicket of problems is so difficult most philosophy simply gives up and takes to a simplified myth,often dressed in science jargon. The subject needs a trail guide steeped in the literature of the two great critiques, to connect them together, and the author does a good job digesting this legacy, much of it in German, stretching over two centuries. The book starts with Kant's Third Antinomy and proceeds through the whole terrain, including a discussion of radical evil.<br />It is worth noting how E.O. Wilson in Consilience decided sociobiology is going to have to start a holy war for science and Darwinism against books like this, with their keynote of transcendental freedom, the noumenal and phenomenal aspect of agency, self, and freedom. Why anyone would be dumb enough to wish such a fight is hard to comprehend. Even in the midst of the obvious difficulties of the now classic Kantian approach it stands like the Himalayas beyond the pretenses of later philosophy with its curious claims to have progressed beyond this point, when in fact they have mostly forgotten their own tradition, content with the pragmatism of the couch potato.mostly forgotten their own tradition, content with the pragmatism of the couch potato.	2004-01-25
814160:US	50592435	RB90DZHD5APZ4	1887208046	965977626	When Corporations Rule the World	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Pulling the props from under the propaganda	This very succinct and very clear account of global capitalism run wild does the job where most leftist accounts of their subject too often suffer addled brain syndrome due to Hegelian brain rot. All it takes is a few pokes. Gosh, I had no idea the limited liability joint stock corporation was a problem, like the now passe institution of monarchy. The regime of mass media is so constant in its effect that we are already filled with sound bite refutations of the obvious facts of the case. And conventional economists are usually in recovery from their neo-classical college degree. At first sight the treatment appears lightweight and the text doesn't seem to amount to much, but within a few pages the relatively loose argument does its job. Take as a vitamin supplement for couch potato syndrome, or the daily newsspeak. Nice.	2004-01-23
836739:US	50592435	R555TT9QLLRPO	0691115168	445145795	Enlightenment against Empire	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Global modernities	We are so beset with Enlightenment critiques that we can fail to look closely at the depth of its defining events. In this engaging book, and surprise find, we discover a veiled side to the Enlightenment in its broad spectrum of seminal anthropology and philosophy of history, as in Kant, Herder. A mysterious balance is built in, witness the counterpoints of Kant and Herder, and the very themes we bring against the period are often born in that period. And that would seem to be the case with the very Eurocentrism brought in evidence against modernity. That a critique of empire emerged at the very moment of expansive imperialism is an important history, and this work exhumes a brighter corner of that. Excellent job.	2004-01-07
836746:US	50592435	R2TLQR54R2U3WI	1583670122	96036158	Marx's Ecology: Materialism and Nature	Books	4	1	7	N	N	Capital ecologies	I was reading somewhere that Marx had been refuted, but you never know, the way the Bush gang is acting up it's only a matter of time before the classic challenge of Marx and Engels will see its stock rise as the Ann Coulter traitors realize she meant it. But will the corpus of ideas stand up? It seemed fitting to check out the cultural fire equipment--I appointed myself for the job. This book is a nice and a breezy, well done exploration of the mainline with an interesting twist on ecology. A bit after the fact, perhaps, since the legacy of known historical Marxism in action was not good here. But the relevance of Marx to ecological questions is not a hard rabbit to pull out of a hat. As interesting was the review of the Marxist viewpoint for which one fears there are no second chances in its current form which is lodged in a series of confusions through which the author takes us unwittingly, flawed material presented as 'store items'. Yet the tradition has infinite potential if anyone can extricate the material from its Hegelian, Darwinian confusions, and regrettable fallacies of (economic) theory.<br /> One nice part of the book is the review of Marx's materialism, and the relation to his early studies of Epicurus. Thence the Hegelian sources of Marx and a history of Marx and Engels on Darwin. The problem with Marx's materialism is that it is, despite the obvious enrichment of the Greek source, too nineteenth century, and too obsessed as contra-Hegel. To transcend bourgeois society seems to ask for a philosophy that transcends the whole (bourgeois) philosophic tradition. But didn't Hegel steal on march on that question? To pick materialism against idealism was a strategic limitation. Hegel is too clever to outwit with  materialist boilerplate from the age of scientism and water cooler jargon from hallways at Nasa. One is a Marxist anti-Hegelian yet armed with pilferred Hegelian material--the result is seen in the author's discussion of Hegel on Kant, a point on which Marxists tend to toe the line, like pragmatists with their 'naturalized Hegelianism'. Marx was brilliant but Marxism was outwitted by Hegel. Why not backtrack to Kant then, a gesture the author points to without intending it in, surprisingly, Engels whose reputation sits badly with his dialectics of nature, but the book shows thinking much more cogently in private with the Kantian third critique.<br />The most useful part of the book is the discussion of Marxism and Darwin. But here total confusion has always reigned in the 'over the falls' embrace of Darwin. And I was fascinated to read the author's giving the game away on Marx's obvious reluctance to let selectionist theory pass. For that we must admire Marx's instincts, for he smelt a rat, but the tide turned against him reservations. I think the Darwinist embrace produced by the Seond Internationale was a great failure of Marxism, as the 'critique of evolutionary economy' failed to make it into the tradition, in part because of the agenda on materialism. In a word, our fire equipment is not ready, for this and other reasons. Interesting little book anyway.ich Marxists tend to toe the line, like pragmatists with their 'naturalized Hegelianism'. Marx was brilliant but Marxism was outwitted by Hegel. Why not backtrack to Kant then, a gesture the author points to without intending it in, surprisingly, Engels whose reputation sits badly with his dialectics of nature, but the book shows thinking much more cogently in private with the Kantian third critique. <BR>The most useful part of the book is the discussion of Marxism and Darwin. But here total confusion has always reigned in the 'over the falls' embrace of Darwin. And I was fascinated to read the author's giving the game away on Marx's obvious reluctance to let selectionist theory pass. For that we must admire Marx's instincts, for he smelt a rat, but the tide turned against him reservations. I think the Darwinist embrace produced by the Seond Internationale was a great failure of Marxism, as the 'critique of evolutionary economy' failed to make it into the tradition, in part because of the agenda on materialism. In a word, our fire equipment is not ready, for this and other reasons. Interesting little book anyway.	2004-01-07
838219:US	50592435	R2WIOCUBH7H55I	047146502X	312680518	The Case for Israel	Books	4	9	29	N	N	Babylonian captivities of the mind	After reading reviewing _Wrestling with Zion_ and _The Politics of Antisemitism_ I did a dialectical zigzag in this direction to see what's what. I have no further stake in the question of Israel and look on in sadness at the whole issue. I found Mr. Dershowitz'book interesting, provocative, useful, but inadequate. The case for Israel started with Herzl, and if the case isn't closed, one might ask what the problem is. The author's case looks good at all points for a non-specialist, but, as so often here, one is condemned to another six months fact checking in some other set of books. The material on Camp David is not convincing, and, while Arafat is open to criticism, the argument vilifying him all over again isn't concordant with all the facts. Nonetheless, I find this layout of point issues useful and was more than happy to take this as a challenge to research.<br />I think however those defending Israel are descending into a lack of realism. What is the core problem haunting this hundred year fiasco that has left Jewish culture politically corrupt, eroded the integrity of the American government with the plausibly deniable really existing Jewish lobby, and produced untold suffering on another people? Without denying Israel's right to exist, a legal issue, one must point to Dershowitz' impassioned statement at the start about the absolute right to the Jewish homeland, etc...Speaking not legally (and the question legally is one I grant)but in terms of historical insight, what right is this? What of the right of the Cherokee Indians to their historic homeland?<br />The philosopher Spinoza, one of the great Jewish (Marrano) thinkers, exposed the game four centuries ago, and said 'enough', to Jews and Christians both. In an age of Biblical Criticism, and a debriefing of the Old Testament, an ancient and dangerous myth has been exposed, yet now is resurgent, and armed with nuclear weapons. We can see that the whole mess is setting itself up to challenge the momentum of history, and thus slowly but surely the great Zionist beginning passes into the confusion we now see. It is to be hoped the complete fantasy of the Old Testament can be exposed and scrapped so something can be rescued from disaster. Herzl said as much.Perhaps its hopeless.<br />Dershowitz' case looks good on the surface, but it is not enough. And in any case we suspect these arguments simply buy time and front for some other intent behind the scenes. Sorry, I can respect the author, but not trust him. In any case, the book was useful and interesting.istory, and thus slowly but surely the great Zionist beginning passes into the confusion we now see. It is to be hoped the complete fantasy of the Old Testament can be exposed and scrapped so something can be rescued from disaster. Herzl said as much.Perhaps its hopeless. <BR>Dershowitz' case looks good on the surface, but it is not enough. And in any case we suspect these arguments simply buy time and front for some other intent behind the scenes. Sorry, I can respect the author, but not trust him. In any case, the book was useful and interesting.	2004-01-06
840072:US	50592435	R3RPF12EPV98RM	1902593774	83100355	The Politics of Anti-Semitism	Books	5	44	69	N	N	&quot;News to me&quot; --print that	Useful collection of essays at high chili pepper rating on the issues of 'anti-semitism' and the nature of public criticism in light of that frequent charge. There is not all that much to read in this field that isn't panic-striken shifty eyed journalese, and the material from Counterpunch certainly deserves close reading. The left is the only group left with nothing to lose in pointing to obvious absurdities here. All the majors in Congress are cowering grovelers: The existence of the Jewish lobby is like the tales of sasquatches in the mainstream media, and the articles here contain solid evidence of sightings of this phantom. I was a bit shocked to see Congress compared to the Vichy government. C'mon guys, that's trespassing on treason. Somebody tell Ann Coulter. And the recount of the Liberty affair is genuinely mind-boggling. The later incident of the American government selling its own troops down the river ought to have been a turning point, but at such high levels of cynicism the Machiavellian hyena of both the American and Israeli govs went on without an eyeblink.	2004-01-05
841816:US	50592435	RKVJ4QYGTU16H	0333986466	996375016	What Is History Now?	Books	5	6	14	N	N	Once and future historiographies	This interesting and topical upgrade to/commentary on Carr's classic _What is History?_ recaps the historiographical history of the sudden 'postmodern turn' that occurred in the wake of that book with its rapid proliferation of distinct new methodologies, or anti-methodologies. Thrown in relief by Carr's original question these gestures seem to be coming full circle at a moment when the nature of historical writing is once again under examination, as the 'now' in the title suggests. But historical theory is bedouin traveller, never content with itself. One might confound the triumph of the anti-theorists by contro-posing another question, What is evolution? The current paradigmatic has, in part, enforced the wrong answer to question, in the process enforcing the 'must remain muddled' regime of historical explanation. What is evolution and what is history and are the two questions the same and if not when did evolution become history?<br />These questions remain unanswered in a Darwinian age.	2004-01-04
842381:US	50592435	R2C0HNHGUFD8JR	0802140157	896752080	Wrestling with Zion: Progressive Jewish-American Responses to the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict	Books	5	24	47	N	N	Beginning with Herzl...	This important series of essays probes the situation of Israel, Zionism, and the crisis of the Jewish state. Non-Jewish voices have been either been silenced, or tossed in the towel in a hopelessly vexed situation where mere grumbling out loud can be called antisemitic. It is hard to to match the discourse of Jews themselves. Getting to the facts is almost a full time job, especially with the flying fortress amicus curiae stuff of people like Dershowitz in 'The Case for Israel'. Among many essays one probes the current post-Camp David 'cover story', 'Arafat's fault'...<br />One essay about Constantinian Judaism is especially insightful and the slow progression from ethical culture to power state is unnervingly on the mark. Jews are supposed to be smart people, but apparently not enough to grasp the slow but steady political destruction of the Jewish idea, too fragile to withstand the corrosive treatment of Machiavellian in Old Testament Hollywood applied to Palestinians.<br /> Worth reading, agree or not, in a twisted news environment.	2004-01-04
850117:US	50592435	R357OZPA6KER3Q	0446532231	628954405	Dude, Where's My Country?	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Mission control, we have a problem...	I wasn't sure what a dude was, maybe a saddletramp from a John Wayne movie. But it sounds right for George II (not King George). I share the author's bafflement that such a halfwitted dimwit and all around mumbler could hold elective office in a major industrial nation without crony intervention. It would merely be embarrassing if the dude in question and not in quotation marks weren't a frontman for even worse dude-types pulling strings to undermine democracy, roll back generations of social advance, bankrupt the nation, ensure mass death by lack of health insurance, among other major and minor gaffes and goofs. Where's the voting booth?	2003-12-29
851183:US	50592435	R22EO2L0YK6RB1	0684818868	458361116	Lies My Teacher Told Me : Everything Your American History Textbook Got Wrong	Books	5	8	14	N	N	On the case of ideology	This is a superb little study of the distortions in our knowledge of history using as a benchmark the analysis and comparison of a series of textbooks. The study of ideology is too often too arcane, jargon-ridden, or a leftist pose or exercise in rhetoric. We can tune out from critique entirely! Getting down to cases helps, and this book produces results. I usually think myself reasonably well informed, but this text surprised me over and over and uncovers a host of 'lost' data, beside the howlers that lard history textbooks used in schools. The study of history is crucial, absolutely vital, yet the subject languishes, and the ignorance of students, and the public, is abysmal. Part of the reason perhaps is unconscious ideological deafness in the face of distorted views. Students tune out. Beyond that the surface of history is too easily made the object of distortions and the result is boilerplate ad infinitum. From Wilson's rank racism, to the mythology of Columbus, and through to the Vietnam war and a host of other 'mendacity zones', the author uncovers a very considerable list of startling facts, and one wishes that this level of common sense brought to ideological expose without the jargon were more common, standard. Good show.	2003-12-28
851465:US	50592435	R1TS088WS54CQ0	0837189837	70645701	The Origin and Goal of History	Books	5	18	27	N	N	The Axial Age--The Cover Up	This is one of the most significant works of the twentieth century yet it is not even in print. Deep sixed from the word go. Remarkable! Even books detailing the intellectual biography of Jaspers omit mention of it. The various efforts to subject the issues to scholarly study distort the original observations. What's going on? The reason is not hard to find. It contains the first crystallization of something current science and religion don't want to face, the phenomenon of synchronous parallel evolution, global in scale, and operating in a fashion that flagrantly contradicts received dogmas of religious, scientific and economic history. Check out the reviewer's World History and the Eonic Effect for a discussion of this text. Meanwhile it should be reissued and the public deserves to know the existence of this line of historical evidence going back to the nineteenth century. It makes mincemeat of Darwinian thinking. Aha! Now we know why they deep sixed the book.	2003-12-28
852002:US	50592435	R1R1OTQJ504XBE	0520220579	684018913	Hannah Arendt in Jerusalem	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A prophecy of the Israel/Palestine conflict	Hannah Arendt's reputation in Israel (according to this book) has suffered the consequences of her controversial views, but these are now becoming more openly discussed, witness the conference on her thought at the source of this book. This set of essays is a highly useful (and balanced) treatment of the 'banality of evil' controversy, and much else, including Arendt's prophetic cassandra warnings about what was to come in the hopeless muddle of the Israel/Palestine conflict.	2003-12-27
853780:US	50592435	RAX5WNXPAHUT1	0767905342	421292455	Wealth and Democracy: A Political History of the American Rich	Books	5	46	49	N	N	A Re-Gilded Age	It would be hard to write a clearer indictment of the dynamics of politics and money that this history-expose. It covers not only in American history, but the entire sequence of cutting edge economies-empires, from sixteenth century Spain, seventeenth century Holland, nineteenth century England, and finally twentieth century North America. Laid out in a series the Faustian game of prosperous nations finally declining is grim, and the entire question ends off key with the case of the American economy and what it has been up to in the last twenty-five years. It's hard to resist the conclusion, given the facts, that the business class left to its devices is a menace to living populations of citizens, who they leave in the lurch after the cresting of the tide. Let us hope that current crop of economic hyenas can be stopped in time so that the great American democracy might survive into the next century. In the meantime, by the reckoning of the author, the dry rot was more than begun to set in. At least, given the clear history, we can learn, and react to the fleecing going on even now.<br />Filled with a lot of good data, and historical snapshots from the entire era of the modern, this book is well worth reading for its convincing portrait in slow motion of the economic plight of nations.	2003-12-25
854243:US	50592435	RA4D398U56669	0393058506	904288157	The Great Unraveling: Losing Our Way in the New Century	Books	5	15	19	N	N	Calling all cars--heist in progress	With a series of Op-Ed editorials from the Times in which it slowly dawns on the author what the Bush gang is up to, this book is a major wake-up call for those knocked senseless as couch potatoes about to be cashiered from a democracy society.<br />So what's going on? What's this gang at dot.gov.whitehouse up to?<br />As Krugman puts it:<br />Put it this way: Suppose that you actually liked a caste society, and you were seeking ways to use your control of the government to further entrench the advantages of the haves against the have-nots. What would you do?<br />One thing you would definitely do is get rid of the estate tax, so that large fortunes can be passed on to the next generation. More broadly, you would seek to reduce tax rates both on corporate profits and on unearned income such as dividends and capital gains, so that those with large accumulated or inherited wealth could more easily accumulate even more. You'd also try to create tax shelters mainly useful for the rich. And more broadly still, you'd try to reduce tax rates on people with high incomes, shifting the burden to the payroll tax and other revenue sources that bear most heavily on people with lower incomes.<br />Meanwhile, on the spending side, you'd cut back on healthcare for the poor, on the quality of public education and on state aid for higher education. This would make it more difficult for people with low incomes to climb out of their difficulties and acquire the education essential to upward mobility in the modern economy.<br />And just to close off as many routes to upward mobility as possible, you'd do everything possible to break the power of unions, and you'd privatize government functions so that well-paid civil servants could be replaced with poorly paid private employees.<br />It all sounds sort of familiar, doesn't it?<br />Where is this taking us? Thomas Piketty, whose work with Saez has transformed our understanding of income distribution, warns that current policies will eventually create &quot;a class of rentiers in the U.S., whereby a small group of wealthy but untalented children controls vast segments of the US economy and penniless, talented children simply can't compete.&quot; If he's right--and I fear that he is--we will end up suffering not only from injustice, but from a vast waste of human potential.<br />Goodbye, Horatio Alger. And goodbye, American Dream.reate &quot;a class of rentiers in the U.S., whereby a small group of wealthy but untalented children controls vast segments of the US economy and penniless, talented children simply can't compete.&quot; If he's right--and I fear that he is--we will end up suffering not only from injustice, but from a vast waste of human potential. <BR>Goodbye, Horatio Alger. And goodbye, American Dream.	2003-12-25
855611:US	50592435	R2G0PZXS3XEWPB	0962190160	712440651	Gurdjieff: Making a New World (Spiritual Classics)	Books	3	5	28	N	N	A captive mind	J.G. Bennett had a Gurdjieff problem, and one has to wonder how someone could have sacrificed his many talents promoting the pack of lies promoted by this shadowy figure. Gurdjieff had a knack for mesmerizing smart mathematicians and landed two of them, to give some glitz to his bizarre and second rate 'system'.<br />In this work the dangerous nature of these ideas comes through, and we see the reactionary strategy: reinvent the great chain of being, complete with food chain (!) and man some pitiful sacrifice in that. Give me a break already!<br />Whence these notions? Not even esoteric sufis, needs to be super special hidden masters. This time the unsupported rumor about the 'Kwajagan masters', the real thing behind the real thing, we suppose. Has anyone ever documented any of these faiytales?<br />The very nature of the account suggests this are deviant traditions if they ever that, and in anything to do that wolf Gurdjieff we can easily figure the dishonest angle of what is really afoot here.<br />All this is typical of the whole mindset of the Gurdjieffians, and the vein of untruth that laces everything sadly corrupted Bennett to the point where nothing is believable.<br />Be wary of these people, you have a right to be skeptical. These people have absolutely no authority, whatever they say. They have a bad habit of making things up as they go along, and Gurdjieff, please note, finally admitted as much, that he just made these dangerous ideas up.	2003-12-23
856156:US	50592435	R17ES6TU18LK6W	1859841953	348831162	The Making of New World Slavery: From the Baroque to the Modern 1492-1800	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The original sins of economic man	The rise of the modern world is beset by a contradiction: even as the institutions of a new freedom were emerging in a core area the cancer of slavery began to recur its periphery. We should conclude that we have a laboratory study of the nature of economic man in relation to the genuine self-consciousness able to create a new culture, and determined to be finished with the curse of history. This book contains some graphic portraiture of this faultline in modernity, and opens with a gripping depiction of the slavers arriving in the ancient Congo.<br />Superb work.	2003-12-23
858846:US	50592435	RJX1Z6XME3VEK	0521827043	601821853	Life's Solution: Inevitable Humans in a Lonely Universe	Books	5	8	15	N	N	An overdue challenge to dogmas	Thumbs up indeed, despite reservations. This book at least makes clear Morris' debate with Gould who should be rolling over in his grave. Without fulling agreeing it must be said this perspective is both very much needed, and overdue. Non-specialists can read the tiresome literature here and feel a sense of 'dis-ease'--one is not getting the full picture. The literature is filled with contempt for the reader, for they cannot easily figure out what's been left out. Someone like Morris clearly confirms one's not quite coherent suspicions by pointing to the 'obvious' with some hard data to back it up. And this is quite apart from his take on theological issues, which seems unnecessary to the argument.<br />At one and the same time, finding convergence, directinality, is not as such the same as finding teleology, although it may constitute indirect evidence. Also, it is important to distinguish natural and supernatural teleology, a distinction actually once present in biological thought--thirty years before Darwin, whose theory caused a declien in theory.<br />Good show, let's hope the facade cracks once and for all. Important read, though a bit technical (fortunately).	2003-12-20
859404:US	50592435	REFHIPVE1H7LD	1859846335	632062349	The Velvet Coup: The Constitution, the Supreme Court and the Decline of American Democracy	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Frozen constitution?	I had read the author's The Frozen Constitution, but had no idea he had adddressed the 2000 election issue in another book. I came across this inadvertantly. Although the author's view of the constitution will raise hackles on some, his view is well-informed and definitely worth study if for no other reason than that it flushes out some stubborn factual history that doesn't play in the same key as the usual Yankee Doodle. It can be unnerving to confront the _actual_ history of the highest court in the nineteenth century and up to the time of FDR. It is hard to make the case the Supreme Court had a serious connection to the arbitration of justice. The author's idiosyncratic view gives you a run for your money on the actual mechanics of the American system, and it is important to remember that the current regime would like nothing more than to restore the kind of court system that reigned throughout America history.<br />The current crop of bedtime bonzos at court that stole the election in 2000 is an appetizer for the future, if that's what you are going to vote for.	2003-12-19
863977:US	50592435	R20VNZL31578A1	0393325253	704157984	Of Moths and Men: An Evolutionary Tale: The Untold Story of Science and the Peppered Moth	Books	5	12	26	N	N	It's the paradigm...Who needs evidence?	This is a very well done account of the peppered moth story, with a useful history of the emergence of the Synthesis in the background. Darwin's theory was always beset with the question of evidence, and this fact has distorted the thinking of all scientists in the field who act as if this situation is normal. The case of the peppered moth is especially telling. The one case of something like evidence turns out to be completely flawed, even as the entire science community seems almost paralyzed and incapable of dealing with the issue. The final unraveling of this claim for some sort of evidence should have led a major examination of the status of Darwinism, but no such luck. The whole system simply proceeds without it.<br />The author makes a revealing remark toward the end, that she was accused of giving aid to the enemy, creationists. But is that the point? In any case, we see that this regime of silence is in effect, even if one author is motivated to expose what's going on, up to a point. This dialectic of monotheism is getting pretty tiresome for the rest of the world, who don't buy into this duel of extremes. We need to know, and from reliable sources, the status of Darwin's theory, from _real_ scientists. We need to know, and can expect the truth, and not beating around the bush, as herein portrayed. Clearly such science does not exist in the field of evolution. Isn't this ridiculous. This is a reasonably simple case. If biologists can't get this straight, what of their ambitious claims (without a shred of evidence) to rewrite all the social sciences.<br />Frauds, not scientists.	2003-12-15
867322:US	50592435	R6RT2GA6Z1YUA	0060924276	613388895	Sound and Fury: The Washington Punditocracy and the Collapse of American Politics	Books	5	3	3	N	N	From Lippmandom to punditocracy	In looking up the author's What Liberal Media I came acroos this interesting piece, from the hyperborean age of emerging punditocracy. Omit the last chapter and the book still works very well as commentary for the age of Bush II. Beginning in the nineteenth century (or else the pamphleteering of the American Revolution)with the appropriation of the Hindu term 'pandit', the book recounts the saga of the first great pundit, Lippman, thence to the age of the Reagan pundit wars. Good starting point for the current media debriefing going on in the reaction to the Bush era.	2003-12-12
867567:US	50592435	RV3FVNSR1GS2Z	0231051441	115170997	The Myths of Human Evolution	Books	5	4	8	N	N	The birth of an idea	The idea of punctuated equilibrium was one of those theoretical 'bon idees' whose subsequent fate was something like 'dog ate the paper', as it was savaged by excessive misuse and incoherent debate. This book shows one aspect of what must have been some of the original insights on the issue and gives a very plain and unstressed critique of Darwinism applied to the descent of man, by mainstream biologists. Later works here are on the defensive and/or muddled by efforts to defend the idea from the virtual assault and battery of the talk.origns style.<br />Very useful look at the limits of the Darwinian account. Before everyone in the field dived into a foxhole due, among other things, to the Intelligent Design movement, the problems with Darwin on man were coming to a head. Then confusion returned. Worth reading still.	2003-12-12
867681:US	50592435	R187E2TBK4R5S1	0465001769	492085239	What Liberal Media?: The Truth About Bias and the News	Books	5	11	20	N	N	The Big Fix	Anyone who hasn't followed the TV/Print media from the seventies on just might buy into the notion peddled by conservatives that there is something called liberal bias in their dailies. That the truth is totally the reverse is obvious to anyone who has watched  said/same liberal media seem to bite the dust. The public has been knocked senseless by this propaganda tide. Alterman does a very good job of skewering this Big Lie and exposing the Big Fix that has been going on, especially since the Reagan years when the really vicious streak and lowball vulgarity began its ominous career. Let's hope there is still a chance for a comeback. I think there is because it can't get any worse unless it turns fascist.	2003-12-12
869274:US	50592435	R2RFIMTXA4I9PX	1862075123	781416342	Straw Dogs: Thoughts on Humans and Other Animals	Books	3	5	20	N	N	Down in flames--Mayday!	Having read a number of Gray's other books on liberalism and found them, despite aggravated differences of perspective, crisply interesting at least in an acerbic sort of way, I found this latest piece a case of going down in flames. What happened to the poor fellow? Is it a nervous breakdown? We even get a dash of bad Schopenhauer, an entirely uncalled for swipe at Kant, etc...<br /> This book is smoking gun evidence of the confusing and pernicious influence of Darwinian thinking on the social sciences. We even have, with Gray, the full before and after evidence of the wrong influence exerted.<br />Nietzsche was one of the first, and Gray, one fears,will probably not be the last, to go haywire under the influence of Darwin. E.0. Wilson and the sociobiologists are getting their wish, take over the social sciences. (A little unfair, a lot of Gould here too, on progress). And the results are evident in the sudden deterioration of classical subjects.<br />I am puzzled that noone in the establishment warned the author that Darwinian theory is a propaganda routine and anyone dumb enough to rewrite liberal theory on the basis has no business writing a book in the field at all. Didn' the author figure out this was a legitimation tactic, the economy stupid, and not to take it so seriously? Just because most of academia has been silenced here doesn't mean the bigwigs don't know how to bluff it.<br />Thus we find Mr. Grey a casualty.<br />The material on Kant and Schopenhauer makes no sense, nor does the diatribe on progress add up to anything but a bit of rehashed Gould. Darwin's theory is a fake and the conclusions about progress are therefore up in the air.<br />For the record, Gould has pompously done more harm by his seeming leftist viewpoint buttressing Darwin than all the sociobiologists, who are at least more transparently ideological. The results are escalating confusion.<br />Still, this book was interesting in a lurid sort of way. But, I would say, to any other liberal theorists out there, don't get suckered into this kind of sociobiological 'take over' mode that all too clearly got one confused convert here.  If you peddle propaganda for Dawkins' groupies, you have to remember which part was truth, which fiction. Else, poor will try to rewrite basics in this cancerated vein.ral theorists out there, don't get suckered into this kind of sociobiological 'take over' mode that all too clearly got one confused convert here.   If you peddle propaganda for Dawkins' groupies, you have to remember which part was truth, which fiction. Else, poor will try to rewrite basics in this cancerated vein.	2003-12-10
870858:US	50592435	R30MBJOC75XF95	1893554643	317649445	By Design: Science and the Search for God	Books	5	17	25	N	N	...by design, and arguments thereof...	I am not a member of this fan club but I snoop on the Intelligent Design movement, and this book came with the territory. As an independently funded Darwin critic I found this book interesting reading and, whatever one's views, the history of an attempt to assault the Darwinian paradigm bastions is a lesson of its own in the nature of knowledge, and the strange case of contemporary science. From the Templeton foundation to Philip Johnson and the crystallization of the ID movement the tale is brisk and insightful. The book also has an insider/outsider take with some details not normally promulgated in official circles. The sad part is that that secular culture cannot manage any such critique, and that the ID movement probably, despite considerable effort, still cannot penetrate the marionette minds of those fixated by Darwinism. I was interested in one quote from P. Johnson, who notes the way science and academia are able to make their own rules, and break those who don't conform. And they know full well there is a problem. That's the best way to stiffle debate. Exude faint cynicism, 'you are wasting your breath'. It is getting to be a silly business that will end in the great embarassment in the history of science, as the obsession continues to attempt to invade all fields like a plague of locusts. But I think sometime soon someone will start to realize they are sacrificing the intelligence of their dumbed-down meritocracy. Then perhaps finally panic will set in.	2003-12-09
872100:US	50592435	R1I9OC28KZ8FJZ	0674008375	867284825	Economic Sentiments: Adam Smith, Condorcet, and the Enlightenment	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Invisible sleights of hand	This is a nicely done zoom level retrieval of the real Adam Smith (or one of them) before conservative ideologists appropriated his name and theories, resulting in amnesiac palpitations and the fulminations of Karl Marx. Adam Smith is an historically ambiguated figure whose reputation fluctuated very quickly between the era leading up and throughout the French Revolution and the era thereafter. We blame Rousseau for wicked deeds, in a snort at the Revolution, but similar 'misgivings' attended the radical Smith. This is a well done account, with a good critical history of the 'invisible hand' scenario, and a reminder of the dangers of historical hallucination curable only by hard labor at the historical record.	2003-12-08
873491:US	50592435	R1LKPP7UR3WBQ3	0553061747	959749263	The End Of Science: Facing The Limits Of Knowledge In The Twilight Of The Scientific Age	Books	4	2	10	N	N	The ends of science	Must read book, good to the last penny but I must knock off one star for authorial insolence.<br />This was a well placed 'potshot' at the pretensions of Big Science, and better barbed than the original Spengler version which was a bit of a 'cheapshot', or overly hysterical, or too neo-barbarous. It would seem the problem is not the end of science but (the question of the 'ends' of science apart) correctly hoping for its true beginning, and in any case cutting out the fat in (very) major areas where science has produced filler instead of knowledge. Science has 1. never escaped Descartes, 2. cold shouldered Kant's critiques 3. produced a bogus theory of evolution 4. never resolved issues of free will, soul, or divinity, and yet claims to have a lockon for absolute truth, 5.forgotten all the warnings that this was happening starting in the generation after Newton.<br />Thus, the 'end' of science actually happened at the end of the eighteenth century and into the early nineteenth, but noone quite got the message as the emergence of a host of semi-sciences cluttered the minds of the intellectual masses with massive amounts of junk thinking. A good example is Darwin's theory of selectionist evolution taken as a total theory to bootstrap the pretense evidentally of 'full take over and control' for the Age of Science. Such a theory is the one thing needed to achieve a breakthrough in the human sciences (control again), so it is a good question, did they fake it?<br /> Until science can backtrack and correct its mistakes and account for its inability to backtrack and correct its mistakes issues of the end of science are a bit like asking why Beetlebomb the racehorse never finished the race and was found munching in pasture near the track. In the meantime because science is good at technics (dig those Big Bombs) the mystique and arrogance of the nerdish nitwits has proven sufficient for mindshare/mindcontrol.<br />The question of the end of science thus hardly arises. The issue is the 'end of fantasy science', the irrationalism of 'scientific rationalism', etc...is the 'end of fantasy science', the irrationalism of 'scientific rationalism', etc...	2003-12-07
876567:US	50592435	R15VAWZAQK9Z45	0847693643	123798919	Disciplined Minds: A Critical Look at Salaried Professionals and the Soul-battering System That Shap	Books	5	12	18	N	N	Operant conditioning for groupthink.	I found this work fascinating, though my take is different. Observing the Darwin debate over time as a secular critic I was always struck by the way the Intelligent Design movement (which I don't agree with)was able to simply skewer the standard scientific position, even despite their own confusions, as all the bigwigs in science and education were reduced to reiterated press release stuff from the kneejerk Darwin paradigm. How was it possible, I thought, that the entire cadre of scientific experts could not properly defend their own subject or see the clear problems pointed to?<br />The answer became clear in interactions with some grad students, nervously retreating in genuine fear, knowing full well they had to bite the bullet and lie.<br />Baffled, since I know little about the academic context, I found this book hit the spot very well in showing how that could be possible.<br />Very interesting book, although I think some of the examples the author gives don't quite match his very well laid out thesis at the beginning. That's not surprising, his thesis is very intangible, and it is sometimes hard to put one's finger on the actual way it happens.	2003-12-05
878981:US	50592435	R18HL2U604FN2R	0786712813	111671991	The Looting of Social Security: How the Government is Draining America's Retirement Account	Books	5	21	27	N	N	A history of economic malpractice	It is very difficult to navigate toward clarity on economic issues based on the information given in the media. Books recounting the full picture in slow motion have an advantage over the soundbite versions that clearly don't sink in. Disinformation tends to succeed, and as the author points out, basic economic education being a scarce commodity, even journalists and politicians themselves are confused, an important point to remember. It's a fact of life that even a well-educated person must reckon with his proneness to being disinformed and this appalling short account of history of the Social Security crisis since 1983 is a more than useful expose of the sorry history here.<br />Beyond that tale which has been told before, mostly in vain, it is also a cutting expose of the current monumental swindle going on with the Bush manipulations of the budget and deficit, also with a clear fingerpointing at the blunder/lie behind Clinton's myth of the budget surplus that handed the Bush gang a golden opportunity to front their conservative sabotage. Clinton's dose of sanity rescuing the system from the Reagon/Bush disaster got frittered away in one stroke by the new round of the voodoo artists, right in front of our eyes. The sheer impudent and premeditated brazenness of the tactics takes one's breath away, and it is no surprise we have been treated to near flood of books about the Bush Lies. The saddest thing is that voters can't grasp their own self-interest.<br />It is good that while partisan in one way the author clearly traces the onset of 'voodoo economics' as far back as the Johnson presidency, and in telling the whole history of this and Reaganomics he brings out something we don't always notice, that competent economists have documented in some alarm every stage of the whole business, only to be shunted aside by presidents listening only to their political advisers.<br />The portrait of the future of Social Security and the future deficit is very alarming and one is left baffled at these politicians in their malevolence. A contract with America ought to read 'a contract on America' as in mafia hit language.<br />The book is slightly repetitive, perhaps written in a hurry, but very much worth reading. In most fields malpractice is an indictable offense. Apparently presidents are to be an exception. Enough's enough.eft baffled at these politicians in their malevolence. A contract with America ought to read 'a contract on America' as in mafia hit language. <BR>The book is slightly repetitive, perhaps written in a hurry, but very much worth reading. In most fields malpractice is an indictable offense. Apparently presidents are to be an exception. Enough's enough. <BR>	2003-12-03
879826:US	50592435	R37O1ZXSY8JI1Z	3893380086	198343339	Zarathustra: The Laughing Prophet v. 2: Talks on Friedrich Nietzsche's "Thus Spake Zarathustra"	Books	4	1	10	N	N	Buddhist panopticon	Reviewing a book on Wagner and Hitler (Kohler's Wagner's Hitler, and Magee's The Tristan Chord) one feels stymied. The discourse is crippled by the inability to make unsupportaed charges, even as New Age underground rumour passes the non-facts. I looked at this again in search of Rajneesh's little known or forgotten bombshell on Buddhists and Nazism in his hundreds of books. Unfortunately, it wasn't this one (books hard to get!)but it is an interesting piece, an historical first (almost, consider Aurobindo)by a Buddha on Nietzsche in a polite musing on his overman/underdog theme with a suggestion so and so's get packed off to Zen monasteries in such dire straits. Nietzsche was like a greenhorn waltzing into a saloon twirling his sixshooter with a 'Hey dudes, here I am'.  That's ok if that's the way you want to go. But humility, however insincere, can be learned to some degree via cowardice, and some knowledge of the competition--fairly outmatched one thinks. In the fact there is none: There are no overmen, only wannabe's and samsaric has-beens. In nature's economy, the 'overman' goes through an 'it's all over' termination phase, over and out.In fact, these two resemble each other, in coming to a bad end. That flaw in Nietzsche's game seems to belie the genius in overdrive fantasy. Art, evil, and Zarathustra is a potent mix. Meanwhile one reviews the videotape on Wagner trying to find the clues in the planted tidbits on Buddhism, the distorted Schopenhauer strain, and the appearance of the disastrous point of no return plot against the Jews. Somewhere there was the perfect crime. We need a new kind of private eye to sort all this out, now, before the end times.	2003-12-02
883149:US	50592435	RQ0YRJIH5PGDE	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	11	18	N	N	Fox flunkies and others flunking the lie detector test	There has been such a rash of books exposing lies, damn lies and the deficit statistics to match in the Bushwacked dot.gov recently that one wonders if they should require politicians to wear lie detectors whenever they speak in public. It wouldn't be hard to invent such a device. A baseball cap with electrodes that twirled a propeller when the pol crossed from white lies to major fibbin. Next to Corn's The Lies of George Bush, Big Lies by Conason, and Alterman's What Liberal Media, Franken's fullback charge seems like an episode from the 'incredible hulk', but more controlled, and better researched. It's time, although I hope the author didn't rip his shirt. This could be close to the point of no return in the basic drift toward the far right that has overtaken the public sphere with results that will prove less than fun, and hopefully not irreversible if we can hope the public sees through these apocalyptic saboteurs in the monopoly media such as Fox News. So cut to the facts, good job.	2003-11-30
883394:US	50592435	R34Z8B62DHWWL5	080282126X	473721681	What Did the Biblical Writers Know and When Did They Know It?: What Archeology Can Tell Us About the Reality of Ancient Israel	Books	5	5	20	N	N	Biblegate	Correctly putting the history of the Old Testament in focus is like Dr. Magoo trying to read street signs. The genre proceeds from Spinoza to the present--no Zarathustra's end times--in a series of dialectical reversals now seen in the battle over the minimalists.<br />The beautiful enigma (for a secularist)of the Old Testament's creation lies in its skewed compression around the exile plus or minus, for reasons that are not clear from either the text or the history but which become obvious from seeing the history by comparison with the riddle's (partial) solution, the era of the Axial age.<br />This book neatly recounts the way in which the debate goes back and forth over the early or late composition of the text. This work tries to put the extreme versions in their place, and the author has a point. We can, without reintroducing myths, produce the significant historical account the minimalists wish to dispose of, etc... A reasonable version lies in The Bible Unearthed, by Finkelstein and Silberman, or Freedman's Who Wrote the Bible.<br />Noone, religious or secular,sees the remarkable nature of the tale once the myth has been taken out, and there the Axial context produces a new mystery, one that thrives as well with the corrected minimalist account found here as with the religious one.	2003-11-30
884186:US	50592435	R33IM8HZEXSUQ7	0195148304	704635275	In Darwin's Shadow: The Life and Science of Alfred Russel Wallace: A Biographical Study on the Psychology of History	Books	3	5	26	N	N	Darwin forever under a cloud....	After reading a review in NY review of books of Shermer's book I snapped out of my previous opinion and decided to revise my previous review here. Distracted by the issues raised in A. Brackman's book, A Delicate Arrangement, 'rebutted' by Shermer, I wavered wrongly in my original view at what appears now as a clever whitewash of Darwin.<br />Putting Brackman's arguments to one side for the nonce, the plain fact of the matter is that Darwin was, and has been ever since, engineered by Big Science propaganda into the exclusive icon for the discovery of evolution. And is Shermer just the fellow for this displacement job on Wallace. Wallace confuses people because they think that Darwin on the descent of man is established science, when the reality is that an immense con job has always finessed the fact that science has no conclusive theory here, and Wallace honestly pointed it out. Period.<br />As to the rest of Shermer's arguments in his book, viz. on the 'science' of history, they are without merit and constitute another of the 'bilge and balderdash' necessary to cover up the fact that there is no science of history, also.<br />The whole Darwin field is addicted to a pack of lies and it seems all parties have lost the ability to distinguish truth from distortion. Reviewing the details of the Ternate affair, we seem to see the ambitious Darwin concerned to rescue his priority, after years of so doubting his theory he couldn't publish it, and getting his priority by rigging the priority list and rushing into print. We have spent over a century beholden to this farce. Time for a little skepticism.	2003-11-29
885927:US	50592435	R1KNOGNGQJBWCU	0745627102	749154367	Wagner's Hitler: The Prophet and His Disciple	Books	4	3	8	N	N	The marching music...	I read this together with Magee's recent The Tristan Chord and the two together create a funny dissonance, if not a blown gasket, but the twice over left a few question marks next to Kohler's book. This does not subtract from the book's remarkable interest and I would recommend Wagner defenders 'face the music' here to the extent of at least not ignoring it. Wagner wasn't your garden variety shmuck.<br />However, I felt as if I were left hanging by a text that was poorly documented, and found myself suddenly distanced from the text with some of the speculative takes cut into the footage. No footnotes, no deal, and the question is on hold since tracking down this data is not an afternoon's work. That's a pity since I doubt if this objection will deflect the author's basic point. The interleaving of Hitler bits with Wagner bits was confusing also, better to have simply laid out the sequence. Then it might be clearer that, while Wagner probably cannot be easily absolved here, it is also doubtful if we can establish a full or correct chain of consequence. Finally, blaming all this on the Romantic movement doesn't quite wash, and the fact is, as the Magee book shows, that we are dealing with a very complex figure in Wagner (as Nietzsche well knew)and a very tangled social question involving the sources of fascism in the rightist reaction of the nineteenth century. Indeed, it is sad to see the hothead of 1848 turning into the cultural derelict pursuing the 'aesthetic state', with such a bone crushing opposite result. Important, but sad book. Needs further commentary, however, with some historical backup.	2003-11-27
887456:US	50592435	R1UH93Q0I3U9P	006019247X	173288464	Human Accomplishment: The Pursuit of Excellence in the Arts and Sciences, 800 B.C. to 1950	Books	1	7	68	N	N	Corporate funded Eurocentrism.	The author of the Bell Curve is at it again, this time with a thesis that misinterprets the data of world history very badly. The rise of modernity was not the creation of the people who now run thinktanks, all that is left is for conservatives to spoil its potential. Another gift to postmodern disillusion.	2003-11-26
890646:US	50592435	R2LBVBKIMYJRAZ	0805067884	607359357	The Tristan Chord: Wagner and Philosophy	Books	5	3	10	N	N	Aesthetic states...	I read this at the same time as J. Kholer's Wagner's Hitler (q.v.) and the result was partial dialectical collision. It is difficult to know how to take Wagner in the midst of so much revisionist detective work. But Magee's book is, in the realm of pure Wagner limbo, a splendidly done piece which shows Wagner to be one of the most complex and significant figures of the nineteenth century. This is not the same as the usual oulala about genius since Wagner and Nietzsche both did a lot of bungled work, among them fixing culturally inadequate views of tragedy. They both failed their own tests, and if you can't figure out the essence of Greek tragedy you can end up in the middle of one yourself. Worth keeping in mind in the tiresome eulogies of these two failures of genius. What a waste.<br /> As a musical peon in the Verdi bleachers with the old rotten cabbage in reserve I can do without hagiographies of this period, but find the subject interesting in a different way. With the Marx brothers A Night At The Opera under one's belt maybe the right methodology to deal with all this is at hand: this complete shambles is important!<br />Thus it is worth looking at a book such as Josef Chytry's The Aesthetic State for a history of the context of attempts to produce a tragic theatre, and/or the Gesantkuntswerk that Wagner so heroically pursued. But in the context of the overall history which starts with the ancient Greeks the question (which haunted Hegel) is why modern society simply can't match that great other chord of the 'aesthetic state' proceeding from Homer to Euripides. Here Wagner, good or bad, fails his own test, but is the most remarkable self-appointed guinea pig putting the whole issue to a test. It is hard to believe a man of such talents and heroic endeavors could be so unlucky as to fall into the whole occult shebant leading into the emergence of the lunatic far right.  Watching him fail is significant in itself, especially next to the stupefying things he manage to accomplish in the process.<br />But in the final analysis, Wagner was coopted by the society he was and we see a great success in the middle of a great fiasco.<br /> Anyway, Magee's book is a really good snapshot of Wagner. It is good to see the bright side first in trying to get the riddle of Wagner straight.o accomplish in the process. <BR>But in the final analysis, Wagner was coopted by the society he was and we see a great success in the middle of a great fiasco.<BR> Anyway, Magee's book is a really good snapshot of Wagner. It is good to see the bright side first in trying to get the riddle of Wagner straight.	2003-11-23
891465:US	50592435	R1KFVRCIH5A5AT	0415144906	536375044	The French Revolution: Recent Debates and New Controversies (Rewriting Histories)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Theories of revolution, revolutions of theory	J.M.Roberts notes in another book called &quot;The French Revolution&quot;, &quot;In one comprehensible sense the French Revolution is no longer a historical subject, for it can no longer be understood and explained as a unified and cohesive whole even by specialists. Scholars must specialize within the events we call `the Revolution' and even then they will find it hard to keep up with the flood of relevant publications.&quot;<br />To make matters worse the issue of interpreting the French Revolution, and the history thereof, is almost as complicated as the events themselves. It is close to unsafe for innocent minds to venture here without a bird's eye view of the history of interpretations. These, once exposed to view, clearly follow a depressing ideological sequence in lockstep with the politics of the twentieth century through the Cold War. This book is a useful guide to the main stages of the debate from Mathiez to Furet, and the conservative and neo-liberal restorations filled with much smirking over the sansculottes and hints the Revolution should never have happened. Now a new more liberal vein is making a comeback. In any case, this is a handy text for getting oriented in a literature of unreasonable size and much sophistry.	2003-11-22
894701:US	50592435	R15V4PG50ZM18Q	0520063902	60215219	The Aesthetic State: A Quest in Modern German Thought	Books	5	7	7	N	N	From Homer to the aesthetic state	Fascinating work that should be in print connecting a host of subjects from Homer to Wagner, with a lot in between. Understanding the issue of the aesthetic state and its history as a thematic is one way down the cultural mainline of modern cultural history. Also, there is a recent work on this issue in the Third Reich.<br />&quot;The idea an esthetic state traces back to the impression conveyed primarily by one Hellenic `city-state' or polis, the Athens of 480-429 B.C., that its political and social institutions were ruled by an agglomerate of forces for which the closes modern parallels belong to the esthetic sphere. The ultimate reason for this impression is the ubiquity of Homer for the culture formations of classica Athens, directly through the influence of his example on Athenian creative life from tragedy to dialectic. Homer deserves to be called the unique poetic `prophet' for the religions of the Athenians, and, to this degree, their religion is a Kunstreligion or `religion of art' because it stemmed from a legislation made possible primarily through a `poetic' mind. ...The Athenian experiment in an esthetic state was defeated by various factors...Only as late as the civic humanism of early Renaissance Florence was its basic principle retrieved.&quot;	2003-11-19
895109:US	50592435	RAM28VM4WE54J	0521794609	855343176	Natural Law and Modern Moral Philosophy	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Darwinian natural right?	This interesting collection of essays contains \\"Thomistic Natural Law as Darwinian Natural Right\\" which is a provocative attempt to connect the natural law tradition to Darwinism. It is an engaging thesis and one of the few by Darwinists that is even worth looking at (statement by a Darwin critic). The problem here is that all the ironies of 'legitimation' lurk in the assumptions about Darwinian theory, this as a means to prop up natural right theory. Also, one might criticize Darwin's note on Kant as failing to grasp the distinction between a spiritual versus material explanation and a noumenal/phenomenal thematic vis a vis ethics. In a word, we need some better justification of Darwin's theory before we use that to prop up natural right. Interesting in any case.<br />This argument assumes that microevolution resolves macroevolution, an issue settled by paradigmatics, not science. What of natural right if we accept punctuated equilibrium as a macroevolutionary version of the theory. How about the right to revolution by punctuated equilibrial right? Imagine making that argument in front of the judge. If that's true, then what grounds does the judge have to favor Darwin's theory, Darwinian natural right? What lawyer could produce smoking gun evidence for natural selection? Back to the drawing board here.<br />Any way Aquinas believed in 'souls'. How do these evolve?	2003-11-19
897313:US	50592435	R2ZVEETU446QYN	0226752178	679751963	The Embodiment of Reason: Kant on Spirit, Generation, and Community	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Descant and counterpoint--awakening of reason	The life of Kant is too little considered in modern thought, indeed in the history of science. If science boasts that it has left him, and philosophy, behind, it is because science has derailed. We divide science from 'everything else' now, as philosophy seems to suffer the fate of marginalization, and scientism rules the waves, quite metaphysically. It might help to see the early Kant and the later Newton in one chord. There, and this account is rich in detail, we see the descant of Kant, others to come,reflecting on the 'orbit of science' and its latent crystallization of a basic error. Kant's ethical thought seems strange to many now, but its context shows the soundness of the gesture as the response to the time, a model to match Newton's. This semi-biographical philosophic history wonderfully blocks out the major stages, from the first attempt at a universal history, to the 'dreams of a spirit seer',and the discovery of Rousseau, to the onset of the critical system. Like the 'throw and catch'interrupt in a piece of software, the gesture emerges almost at once in the wake of Newton and chases the rapidly escaping sciences on their way to Plato's Cave For All. It is like a prophecy of what the first 'evolutionist' will show the 'last evolutionist', and the text contains a fascinating discussion on Kant's views of esthetics and the organism. Darwinists will catch up to him sooner or later.	2003-11-17
897948:US	50592435	RIFEHQDJSJXLM	0375507523	644345297	Bushwhacked: Life in George W. Bush's America	Books	5	61	86	N	N	Strings attached	Wasn't it Karl Marx who said government gets infested by the ruling ideas from the ruling booboisie? I thought he had been refuted, but the folks in Washington may yet succeed in turning him back into a prophet. here we go again. According to the author the wacky Bushies are highwaymen on the Beltway--the evidence is mounting, folks, from the Texas dress rehearsal to Washington shoe size.<br />One would have thought that with the fall of Communism the captains of industry might have learned a sobering lesson, proceeded chastened to show that a democracy can work, welcome all its 'citizens' into society, and proceed with caution to not navigate backwards. Instead in record time, one generation every cliche of nineteenth century sloganeering is coming to pass, and after three quarters of a hilarious book I tend to agree with one reviewer here, it's funny til you realize its true.	2003-11-17
898388:US	50592435	R1WTF9LBATKLSL	081269547X	521884179	The Great Zapruder Film Hoax: Deceit and Deception in the Death of JFK	Books	5	15	24	N	N	The final cut...	Important adjunct and successor to the author's Murder in Dealey Plaza demonstrating the faking of the Zapruder film. Very technical, yet clear, but one might wish to start with the author's first book Assassination science. The argument here is very strong, despite a few speculations that appear on the sidelines. It is difficult to maintain the discipline of sticking to what one can know or prove and the author's approach succeeds where so many books on the subject pursue phantoms.	2003-11-17
905196:US	50592435	R23E7Y9KWJ0ZOW	079142328X	340714837	Nietzsche and the Modern Crisis of the Humanities	Books	5	3	11	N	N	Nietzsche as intelligent devil	Nietzsche is a clever sort of 'poor devil', efficient. Graduate from retail demonic to the wholesale of cultural sabotage with an exoteric doctrine of 'eternal return' and the 'will to power', as a good baited hook for frustrated esthetes, last men, and those suddenly rendered guilty they show a moral sense.  Recruit them for the bad guys. Nietzsche is worth a thousand Al Quaeda.<br />This useful work produces from a hum drum starting point an illuminating x-ray of Nietzsche, his milieu,and his successors, from Heidegger to Strauss and Derrida. Along the way is an illuminating portrait of Nietzsche's early years and education, the episode with Wilamowtiz-Mollendorff, and his critique of The Birth of Tragedy. Quite alarming is the depiction of Strauss as an 'esoteric' Nietzschean behind his polished gems of cultural reaction. Since he is now the closet guru of the current Washington set I would be geunuinely worried if we had a 'exoteric' Nietzschean gang in, or in the shadows near, the White House. They made need a debriefing on the 'will to power'.	2003-11-11
908399:US	50592435	R1D6NGV74CIN15	1591020654	841523584	The Vatican Exposed: Money, Murder, and the Mafia	Books	5	18	37	N	N	A slight problem with 'image'	Genuinely shocking book if you are not up on the literature in this nook and cranny, dark and ominous--coreleonic. Beyond questions of shadow finance lies the sherlockian big one. It is hard to grasp how media manipulation can succeed here. It is a sad exploitation of innocent believers. At least enter the undeground by acquainting yourself with the facts.	2003-11-08
908469:US	50592435	RGV546Y2A6I6W	0300035187	837155439	Rousseau: Dreamer of Democracy	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Rousseau at the birth of democracy	From the text, \\"Before Rousseau, democracy was, at best, an admirable but obsolete pure form of government, generally of interest only to students of jurisprudence. After him, it became a name for popular sovereignty, extending to all the promise of a personally fulfilling freedom, exercised in cooperation with others.\\"<br />A very nicely done study of Rousseau who suffers chronic mishandling by misinterpreters. As the author notes three potential forms of 'democracy' struggled for the name in the generation after Rousseau, representative democracy, direct democracy, and totalitarian democracy. As we look backwards armed with the definition of the winner, the first in the list, we tend to misinterpret the history, as did the actors in the drama of emergence, due to our already settled assumptions. The historical resolution and judgment requires careful scholarly balance, and here we find it.	2003-11-08
910009:US	50592435	R3C6821Z4THKH3	0226467228	295706945	The One Culture?: A Conversation about Science	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One, two or three cultures?	This is a good compendium of essays trying to recover from the mess of the Sokal affair and seems to be a sort of peace pipe conference of Science Warrriors. Between the two cultures of Snow and the much hyped 'Third Culture' of Brockman we might indeed aspire to the 'one culture', but that keeps getting turned into the two cultures all over again. It is worth going back to the last century to see the more sophisticated version of this debate to see that the current version is a hot house plant inside Big Science. We need the _real_ Science Wars, not between antagonists, but in the minds of the scientists themselves.	2003-11-07
910171:US	50592435	R3GVISIU1RST2B	0801857074	647051713	Higher Superstition: The Academic Left and Its Quarrels with Science	Books	4	13	83	N	N	Lower sub-stition	When I first read this book I found it hilarious and in so far as I don't ride with postmodern appropriations of science I thought it merely odd. But with the passing of the Sokal episode and its trivia the basic issues have resurfaced and the harm done by this book suddenly came home to me. Let's face it, the book is more stupid than what it critiques. Science is failing. Period. It has failed on the theory of evolution, and given us reductionist views on man the average Buddhist finds embarrassing. Whatever the sins of the postmodernists they at least sensed the problem.<br />The most pathetic bit in this forgettable book is the excoriation of Jeremy Rifkin's Algeny, admittedly a book hard to take, and one that caused palpitations in Gould who reviewed it. I actually tracked the book down and discovered a very acute critique of Darwinian theory. It is no great shakes as a book, but at least the author could see the problem.<br />That's the point where this science arrogance is so ill-advised and misleading, the tactics those of the Big Science bullies preening with their positivistic idiocy.<br />For a history of the science wars, cf. The One Culture? J. Labinger, ed	2003-11-07
913000:US	50592435	R21ME3DUEN85KW	0520077113	82583158	On Heidegger's Nazism and Philosophy	Books	5	2	10	N	N	Genre tragical	Much discourse on Heidegger finds seeming grounds to separate the man from the philosophy, but Rockmore, in reviewing the crucial parts and pieces of the case, makes a strong case for the intrinsic connection of the Heideggerian philosophy to the philosopher's Nazism. The point should be obvious from the context of the times, Heidegger's conservative demeanour and the latent confusions of anti-liberal culture already effecting Nietzsche. The book focus on a detailed analysis of the famour Rector address, then follow the trail through to the attempt by Heidegger to disengage himself from his prior affirmations. One can waste a lot of time on sophistries here, and, while the value of the philosophy might endures in a question, the fixation of the typical discourse here deserves this careful review of the prosecutor.	2003-11-05
919785:US	50592435	R1CM52GAXSDQ4S	0312290225	927996908	The American Axis: Henry Ford, Charles Lindbergh, and the Rise of the Third Reich	Books	5	13	25	N	N	Nazi/fascist incubation period	After reading 'Wheels for the World', a biography of Ford, it seemed indicated to zoom in on the Antisemitic period, and this recent book came to light after a brief search: more than enough material at the right zoom level on Ford's, and also Linbergh's, misteps in the incubation period of Nazism, with detailed accounts of their shadowy confusions on the growing tide of fascism. It is hard to credit the hagiographical amnesia in these two cases, (...). But the facts speak for themselves, and one is left with two to join Watson (see IBM and the Holocaust) in a dismal pick of shattered hero histories.	2003-10-30
928028:US	50592435	R3RBUU57D5E7O2	0618118128	78970097	Darwin's Blind Spot: Evolution Beyond Natural Selection	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Evolution beyond natural selection	The tenacity of Darwinian fundamentalism is such that even well-documented phenomena that don't tune with the paradigm tend to be factored out of the public literature. This book braves the uphill battle here on the theme of symbiogenesis, and is a good companion to the recent Acquiring Genomes from Sagan &amp; Margoulis. Judging from some of the reviews of this book, the Darwin estab remains in standard form and really dislikes someone pointing out that symbiosis is a factor in evolution. That means such authors need to be taught a lesson, and most 'authors' will learn fast to reach the Darwin market.<br />My problem with this approach is that it doesn't go far enough, and seems to be merely testing the waters with a relatively safe vein of counterevidence to standard Darwinism. But this much is still a good indirect critique of the obsessive focus on the competition factor in theories of natural selection. Bit by bit, it will sink in.	2003-10-24
933890:US	50592435	R21XNC1LQDZEWI	0465043917	818554815	Acquiring Genomes: A Theory Of The Origins Of Species	Books	5	17	39	N	N	A crumbling synthesis	Darwinists often seem to defend their theory on the grounds that they have nothing better, 'leave us alone,our minds are frozen, it's the paradigm, stupid'). Since there is nothing better apparently, the current theory is operational and 'beyond reproach' although everyone apparently knows it to be wrong, but alright since it's the paradigm. It can help therefore to at least think you have something better: it makes the flaws in the original theory stand out. The main flaw is that, despite the title of Darwin's book, biologists have never managed to explain the Origin of the Species. This work by Margoulis 1 and 2 produces an important implicit critique of Neo-Darwinism (distinguished in the book from Darwinism per se)and delivers a solid body blow to the claims for mutation/variation current. The authors convincingly demonstrate the place of symbiogenesis in the evolutionary record, although it is not convincing in the end that this itself a full explanation for speciation. But, whatever the case, this is a critical 'lost perspective' of working biologists and the account is essential reading for anyone trying to get past the press release/text book mode of the great Dilapidation known as the 'Synthesis'. It need hardly be pointed out that Darwinists were frustrated propagandists for the economic order and allergic to the horrifying implications of cooperative evoluton in the idea of symbiogenesis.<br />Very lively, seminal, and important reading. The preface by Mayr left me head scratching, as it both endorses and challenges the book's claims. Are we getting a secret message from one of the elves of Darwinian theory, a green light for paradigm passage?<br />In any case, at worst, thinking one has a new theory works nicely, now we know we have no theory yet at all. Good work.	2003-10-20
935296:US	50592435	R1LPT9LTW7TLEG	0312042094	326759090	The Political Ideas of Leo Strauss	Books	5	16	34	N	N	Eminence grise--(i.e. hidden consultants of dot.gov, etc...)	This book should be back in print, soon. Many of the puzzles of the current regime change (Washington, not Bhagdad) might be illuminated by a read of this text, since Leo Strauss seems to be the object of a neo-conservative fan club. Shocked?<br />Bush is a poor liar, but he has cripped enough notes on Machiavelli from Straussian staff, no doubt, to fool enough of the people enough of the time.<br />Strauss' intellectual legacy is highly sophisticated,oulala stuff, but too eccentrically dangerous for governmental morons. In the hands of saddle tramps from the Texas bourgeoisie--uh oh!	2003-10-18
937565:US	50592435	R1F23TTUFT9DOD	1563383497	236919638	An Evolving Dialogue: Theological and Scientific Perspectives on Evolution	Books	5	3	9	N	N	An unpunctuated dialogue in equilibrium?	A useful set of essays on the current deadlocked Darwin debate, now with the design folks somehow absorbed into a beggar's gift of a chapter or two. Darwinists had a problem with the design debate so now a new form of smothering thought is needed. Beyond that this is a reasonable overall compendium, although I think that the Darwin debate is clearly doomed to never get anywhere.	2003-10-16
938141:US	50592435	R23YZ88SLI9I1W	0691007101	337998515	Nietzsche, Godfather of Fascism?: On the Uses and Abuses of a Philosophy	Books	5	4	14	N	N	The Nietzsche Enigma	The Nietzsche mystique is one of the puzzles of modern philosophy. He is a hard man to understand, which too often leaves the obvious facts of shadowy side invisible in plain sight. Does anyone actually believe what he says. This series of essays is a useful critical series neither in a debunking nor a booby prize mode, many essays simply examining the parts that conflict with celebrity myth--facing reality: Nietzsche is bound up in the fascist tragedy.	2003-10-16
946552:US	50592435	R133MA9TJLG5SV	0760745293	797199170	The New Humanists: Science at the Edge	Books	5	23	120	N	N	Humanists or humanoids?	It is sad but true that modern scientific culture is incapable of producing a genuine humanism. Between scientific reductionism and the confusions of Darwinism the era of science prospers in physics, but produces idiotic accounts of man, his nature and psychology. What's worse, these issues are very old and systematically studied in the generations after Newton where the limits of his achievement were quickly foreseen. All this has been forgotten in the current paradigm milieu where resurgent positivistic fundamentlism has decided to make all the old mistakes all over again. The educational system reinforces this mindset, and the worst of it is that intelligent technically inclined students are conditioned to a one dimensional view that is blind to the basic fact that science cannot in its current form stand as a foundationalism for the totality of human knowledge.<br />This otherwise interesting selection of essays rounds up the wannabe candidates for another round of Frankenstein humanism that won't amount to anything.	2003-10-09
952403:US	50592435	R35QD6UB44R8K3	0684859750	682557686	A Fierce Discontent : The Rise and Fall of the Progressive Movement in America, 1870-1920	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Ambiguities of reform	This well-done account of the rise of the Progressive Movement is as good on the history of the period, and is studded with many interesting details about the Victorian period in the gestation of the great challenge to the world of big business. Notable, and what makes the book out of the ordinary, is depiction of the limits of the movement seen in the account of the movement's attitudes toward segregation. This was also the era of consolidated Jim Crow, where were the Reformer? The book is food for thought indeed given the strange similarity to our own era of politics, or lack of it.	2003-10-04
953100:US	50592435	R3508YA67B0RY	0813365813	818345757	Matisse and Picasso: The Story of their Rivalry and Friendship	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Esthetic in braid	If this be gossip, then it is the best kind. Engaging account of the rivalry/synergy of Matisse and Picasso and the interactions over half a century, with a Gertrude Stein introit at the beginning. This competition is fairly lightweight stuff as far as I can see although throwing rubber suction darts at a Matisse painting gets close to borderline rascalian--Picasso probably loses points on adolescent misdemeanours, but the art of both leaves us unable to judge, save that a third here could not be found.	2003-10-04
953410:US	50592435	R3KK2KE86RKKD1	0895560461	649491125	The Human Biological Machine As a Transformational Apparatus	Books	2	13	35	N	N	Wake up! This guy's a shark	Completely worthless piece of incoherent trash with the author's mixture of adolescent science fiction, rehashed Ouspensky, and the usual Gurdjieff pastiche. If the author were at least sincere, his faults would be one thing. Gold is either too far gone to write a book in this field, or else he doesn't care and is about the business of his flypaper routine to keep the newbies flowing with a la carte mystic junk. Remember these Gurdjieff people are no enlightened. Such people have to ply the 'Wake up' theme in ambiguous fashion at the lesser level of getting high on self-consciousness, your natural state. You may be an idiot, but you are already awake in this sense. Settle for nothing less than the real thing, which doesn't require these sufi hustlers.<br />This fellow is one of the cruelest and sadistic of the dog and pony trick occultists that fight over the Gurdjieff non-legacy in a sordid monopoly game in the last farce of the sufis. Give him a wide berth.	2003-10-03
953412:US	50592435	R27KH30S004HRW	0895560038	782023283	The Joy of Sacrifice: Secrets of the Sufi Way	Books	2	5	28	N	N	From aztec altars to the sufi big mac syndrome	I wasn't aware that 'sacrifice' was a sufi teaching, and Mr. Gold's Crowley routine should have told him 'sacrifice' is a phoney spirituality. But then Crowley sacrificed a frog. What's Mr. Gold's game here? The public has a right to know. Hohum,the 'work' of fleecing the multitude must go on.<br />We need more information here. Sacrifice is the wilful of destruction of human beings, more sophisticated spiritual interpretations notwithstanding. How does this work out in practice with Mr. Gold's 'groupies'?  We need a new kind of private eye to track the fate of the victimes here. These sufis are clever. You will never catch them on the ordinary police beat.<br /><br />Capiche? There really is a sufi mafia, you know.	2003-10-03
955633:US	50592435	R1QSM70FWBZY51	0691020795	699666500	002: Spinoza and Other Heretics, Volume 2: The Adventures of Immanence	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Invisible Man	Spinoza has suffered a strange fate. He is the invisible man of modern philosophy. Resolving his riddle as it is concealed in the later work of modern philosophy requires some detective work and Yovel's account, the second volume of his series, acutely traces the underground stream of influence through Kant, Hegel, Marx, Nietzche, Freud, and others. The first volume on the Marrano's and Spinoza's background is the author's intriguing starting point. Much modern philosophy hardly makes sense without putting putting a tracer on some key notions, they lead back to Spinoza, a point all too clear to Hegel, who is otherwise incomprehensible. Modern science can handly him, yet he prophesies its limitations. The book has a brisk pace, and is a surefooted guide to a field that requires a great deal of legwork. This digest of such a huge field is a fascinating study of a puzzle most seem to wish unsolved.	2003-10-01
956052:US	50592435	R27CYQ80KGUEI2	0226148785	194203678	The Promise of Pragmatism: Modernism and the Crisis of Knowledge and Authority	Books	5	8	20	N	N	Venture into the interior	I was recently informed that Philosophy was assaulted by something like pragmatism at the end of the nineteenth century. And after seeing a Kantian accused of mental derangement for his views it behooved me to prepare a reconaissance expedition into this unfamiliar country. This book more than foots the bill and is a rich vein of information and history on all aspects of this curiously sly descant on the great philosophic tradition. I think its riddle can be lost after excessive familiarity or formalization, and the crux of its mordant bite is best seen at its threshold in the period also recounted in Menand's The Metaphysical Club. This text also brings in a rare insight into Neibuhr, and his interaction with it all. It is no fault of the book that the subject makes me nervous, one needs a quaint disguise to veil 'old fashioned' interest in Kant. One could be put in a straighjacket, you know.<br />I think Dewey's essay on Darwin tells us something about the subject. Did philosophy really need to be rewritten to Darwin's standard?<br />Anyway, while long compared with Menand's The Metaphysical Club, this work was compelling every step of the way. I am ready to write up my field notes on the natives. Good show.	2003-10-01
956337:US	50592435	R22KI6LB0X9SC3	0312304005	507818134	Before the Flood: The Biblical Flood as a Real Event and How It Changed the Course of Civilization	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Decoding a myth	This is a good upgrade/progress report on the work of Ryan and Pittman attempting to find the historical source of the long tradition of myths of the Flood in the Black Sea rise in the sixth millennium. To what degree the thesis is still mixed with speculation is still not entirely clear, but, taken with caution, the case overall is convincing, and extremely interesting. Worth checking out.	2003-10-01
956504:US	50592435	R3VNWPHV95WN9N	0393051447	550346223	Khrushchev: The Man and His Era	Books	5	0	6	N	N	Alienation, a stranger to oneself	Quite the fool, Khrushchev is a survivor thus,a Stalin favorite, and finally his nemesis. This is a fascinating political chronicle of a world through the prism of the contradictory and devious Khrushchev and also an unwitting depiction of the extreme alienation of repressed conscience in self-deception of the actors of the Stalin tragedy. Although he maintained a remarkable degree of common sense throughout, enough to 'come to' and initiate the exodus from the catastrophe, the man at the end never quite had the anagnorisis or insight into what had befallen him. We should not do what he rivals did, which is to underestimate him, always the peasant as party hack. At the end, from the great Kremlin speech to the approval of Solzhenitsyn's Ivan Denisovitch, we have a telling psychological portrait of a ruined being, yet a long distance runner cunning enough in his cunning to lead his world a major way toward the light at the end of the tunnel.	2003-10-01
956543:US	50592435	R3E1O2Z5T9X0TX	1856192490	807024415	A Most Dangerous Method	Books	5	17	35	N	N	In dubious triumph	Perhaps they were victims of their own unconscious. Certainly Freud and Jung were pioneers in dangerous terrain. Has hysteria ever been explicated. They found a key, but it seems to have frozen in the lock. But the portrait here is less than heroic, and is also very important history for anyone trying to debrief oneself on the legacy of psychoanalysis, whose paradigm grip on cultural mindset up to the seventies almost required an intellectual rebirth to escape from. Had one but known the quirky, almost sordid,details of the hyped promotion of a new research tradition one would have been spared a lot of mental spinning wheels.<br />This history is remarkable in many ways, and goes through the details of the emergence of the theories, followed by their ossification after the episodes of the Freud-Jung collision and the hapless but fascinating Speilrein.	2003-10-01
956860:US	50592435	R2HUDJBWK3IQL6	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	2	2	3	N	N	You guessed it--what else is new?	This is the most brilliant contribution to political economy since Marx's Critique of Hegel's Philosophy of Right. Indeed, a strange thing happened on the way to government by the bourgeoisie, government of the bourgeoisie, government by the bourgeoisie--far too many, if not most by a long shot, were left without musical chairs, and were only included in order to be excluded. It is a strange system of schizophrenia, has been ever since. Heavens, at last count forty three million without health insurance are traitors, they should know better, drop dead as patriots. If the Bush admin keeping beating around the bush like this, it could end badly, a majority of traitors. Brilliant analysis. Good self-help book for liberals having an identity crisis--get it straight, finally. We can close with the words of the drunken porter in Macbeth,'Knock, knock, ...forsooth'.	2003-10-01
961714:US	50592435	R16OKCE27UMNQW	0312314868	561001789	God's Bestseller: William Tyndale, Thomas More, and the Writing of the English Bible---A Story of Martyrdom and Betrayal	Books	5	38	45	N	N	A Religious Revolutionary	After reading the recent God's Secretaries by A. Nicolson (q.v.) where it is pointed out that the King James version of the Bible was already using the archaic language of the sixteenth century, I picked up this new life of Tyndale to find the clarification--as the author here points out, \\"A complete analysis of the Authorised Version, known to generaion as the 'AV' or 'the King James', was made in 1998. It shows that Tyndales' words account for 84 per cent of the New Testament, and for 75.8 per cent of the Old Testament books that he translated'. So, it is the beautifully 'clear as mountain brook water' English of Tyndale that echoes in our minds when we wonder at the language of the AV.<br />This is a crisp and exciting short life of the remarkable but too little known Tyndale and his nemesis the now saintly Thomas More, who pursued him with a vengeful fury, resulting in his being burned at the stake. The beginnings of modern democracy lie in the Reformation Bible translations of Luther, then Tyndale, and others. Bringing the text of the Bible to the people was a genuinely revolutionary gesture Church and State tried mightily to prevent. Anyone who read the Bible for the first time in that era in his own language would notice the absence of mention of much that constituted medieval authority, from the Popes themselves, to the issues of celibacy, or transubstantiation.<br />Let's hope Tyndale will retrieve his place in history past the one paragraph at most that we are used to. Well done.	2003-09-26
964233:US	50592435	RFMHV8S80WUC0	3893380728	235430952	Communism and Zen Fire Zen Wind	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Communist Buddhas	This book is one many would like to forget, but should be remembered as the only known case of an Enlightened Buddha speaking from the far left.<br />It is a mad book, and I don't endorse its views, but a tide is afoot (nothing new) to conservatize the image of the guru, New Age spirituality, and promote the myth of the conservative views of the 'truly spiritual'. This book makes mincemeat of that.	2003-09-24
966208:US	50592435	R3C3ZUB07Q5861	0060185163	725298314	God's Secretaries: The Making of the King James Bible	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Peoples of the book	Intriguing history of the emergence by committee of the King James Version of the Bible in the reign of said King, in the time of the passing of Elizabethan times. This version is finally a mystery that isn't explained, although the overall collation of detail poses the enigma well. There are a few details one hadn't realized--that the language was itself somewhat archaic even for its own times, sixteenth century language already old-fashioned, and that the popularity of the book, after its initial poor showing, really began after the Civil War.	2003-09-23
966271:US	50592435	R80F5N6VBWSZD	0700612513	148752654	Watergate: The Presidential Scandal That Shook America	Books	5	7	13	N	N	Den of ...	Taut summary account of the Watergate tale. This era remains in memory as a series of journalistic fragments and television images half-remembered. It is useful to redo the tape to assemble a fully coherent image and this work is an excellent short history and analysis, from the Plumbers to Deep Throat to nervous breakdown and resignation, exeunt omnes, quite a few, save but one, with no get out of jail free card. The book brings in a theme by way of diagnosis in terms of the corrosive effect of the 'imperial presidency' and the covert perversions of 'presidential will' proceeding in Cold War prerogative as progressive Machiavellian disease to the Nixonesque fatal dosage. As a mere peon here not fooled for once, one is struck by the curious impudence of incompetent villainy, and the strange fortune that a picture of rank dishonesty starting as routine business as usual as if this were all presumed is what finally led to exposure. One gets the bad feeling the other smiling faces in the photo ops are less incompetent, no proof of virtue.	2003-09-23
966696:US	50592435	R1ONS1J26AXAN9	0140192522	887678950	The Way of the Sufi (Compass)	Books	3	10	37	N	N	Chasing the mystic phantom	Noting still another news report about a wave of interest in the West over 'Sufism' it is worth both endorsing the study of such things, e.g. via Idries Shah, and sounding a word of caution, if not a warning. Shah's works are all worth reading, and then setting aside, because they will leave you stranded. The world of Islamic Sufism is obscure to a westerner, and he takes the surface, and that surface is worthless. It is also obscure to a Moslem in the labyrinth of mystifications. Get some groovy music, and whirl around all night with some friends. It will definitely change your view of things, so what?  Is it worth the endless effort of find the 'real' thing? I would bet that not one Islamic 'sufi' in a hundred thousand ever encounters the 'real' thing. Is there such? Note that texts on Sufism never say anything directly about anything, its all covered over. You can go a lot farther these days in a New Age bookshop.<br />This system is not a democracy, and the few celebrity cases strewn over a millennium does not add up to a way of transformation. The touching portrait of the underground sufi is misleading. The real establishment of Islam has a surprising secret and the escape valve sufism peddled to moslems and westerners alike deserves an Foucauldian expose. Face it, 'mysticism' is cheaper than hashish, and has no overhead,  a substitute for the real business of understanding the issue of one's self-consciousness. That doesn't happen through systems designed to dish out mystic pablum. Thus, there are better documened ways to do that without getting inducted into the sufi wild goose chase, with its cynical and elusive promotions.<br />.<br />In any case, Shah's works often give a glimpse of an interesting historical world, but give no real indication of anything practical and are too obviously baited hooks for the unwary.	2003-09-22
968978:US	50592435	RIYBKSRH3BGVK	0691016690	171809690	Art of the Modern Age: Philosophy of Art From Kant to Heidegger	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Tumble of the avant gardes	This surprising work on the history of modern aesthetics unexpectedly diagnoses the 'state of the art' for various patients 'etherized on a table' and traces much of what animates as its Idea modern art with lepidopteric precision. Theory would seem irrelevant to the case of the inspiration but life is not that simple, and the way the author traces the 'speculative theory' of art through its confusing incarnations back to the Romantics, thence to the generation of Schlegel, Schiller, and others, thence again to Kant, is highly illuminating, suddenly an indespensible key to the dynamics of avantgardism.	2003-09-20
969589:US	50592435	R2IPWHENMAXDS2	067003181X	697396730	Wheels for the World: Henry Ford, His Company, and a Century of Progress	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Mechanization of the world picture	As the author notes the history of corporations is often neglected. This account of the primordial emergence of Ford and his 'jalopy', man and corporation, tells the history of an age, and is worth following in slow motion even if we know the gist already. Ford himself is a puzzle, and the contradictions seen in the later shadowy side visible in the cockeyed stupidity of his antisemitism leave a mystery figure for the record. The younger Ford with his audacious $5/day seems a man of uncommon sense and this belies the image of the cliched capitalist and it is sad to see how the System closes in on him in the end. A classic saga well told.	2003-09-20
969610:US	50592435	R36F9Z8VPP5JOK	0385467990	333535268	The Physics of Immortality: Modern Cosmology, God and the Resurrection of the Dead	Books	5	16	27	N	N	For once a mad scientist with  a  working method	Highly mentation-boggling work that left me gaping between the patent absurdities strewn through the text at the lurking consequences, not yet science, but potentially profound, of modern physics. In fact, I had no idea what to do with this book except enjoy it and found the account in action of the Omega Point theory, even if this take is wrong,from Barrow and Tippler's book on the Anthropic principle, to be awesome, almost sublime. At times the smoke seems to be coming out of Tippler's ears, a top physics brain overheating, but the experience is worth it. Better than science fiction (assuming it is not such). Have fun with this one.	2003-09-20
971112:US	50592435	R2MBGEWL08IOYG	0312198264	704608032	Alexander Solzhenitsyn	Books	5	0	0	N	N	World history and the Russian novel	The Russian novel is an historical mystery, the last act of which gives us the great ones of Solzhenitsyn, whose life is told here briskly and well without hagiography and it adds up just as well to a snapshot version of Russian history that is to the point and acute in its indirect analysis of a suffering and quite mad civilization given a knockout blow by the novelist's exposure of the Gulags. The anti-modernism of Solzhenitsyn weighs in to the measure of the effect, but it would seem merely Dostoeyevskian liability at this point. Hits the mark.	2003-09-18
971561:US	50592435	RZI18VFBVPA4B	009132100X	311492350	Janus: A Summing Up	Books	5	4	10	N	N	From the archives of the Darwin debate	Koestler was an acute critic of the Darwinian theory and this work is still worth reading for its short story at the end about Ali, related to Wallace's problems finally with the account of the descent of man given by Darwin. Against this theory as an adaptationist scenario lies the reality that human software is a latent aspect of man that he can barely learn how to use. This suggests that it emerges as a complete potential very early in man's real and different evolution. Where and when this version upgrade that noone can master occurred is a mystery, but the facts, completely obvious to any student of the yogic sutras, don't speak well to a selectionist scenario of adaptive traits.	2003-09-18
976520:US	50592435	R27UKUSAKOS5YZ	0226268969	350265448	Thomas Kuhn: A Philosophical History for Our Times	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Inertial Bodies	One learns to cruise the groves of academe discoursing gladly in Kuhn pidgin talk about paradigm shifts and gestalt switches and picking up this book seemed to forebode some fan club grok on the profundity of the 'paradigm' paradigm. Quite a high dosage of shock treatment then to face head on a virtual mastiff's attack against current Kuhnification. Taken aback, I recovered by midbook and thought, Ok you convinced me. In fact, this book, at any level of agreement or not, is an invaluable tour through many regions of science studies untravelled by most due to either the lack of time for specialized literature or more likely the outcast status of anything less than science worship. Comprehensive to almost arcane at points, the account succeeds through sheer overkill and in the process fills in the background to Kuhn's achievement, from the influence of Conant, to the legacy of Big Science served in a trick play on the normal science chloroform that is our daily bread. At the end one is cured of facile use of Kuhnian terminology, although I see no reason why one couldn't indulge a revised usage of the concept once it is clear that the implied mechanics of scientific change does not quite really follow Kuhn's model, and remains to be discovered. I read this next to the recent 'Doubts about Darwin' by T. Woodward with its depiction of the Intelligent Design folks closing on their foes with some Kuhn, clamoring for a paradigm shift in evolutionary biology. Not so simple, as Fuller's book makes clear.<br />Such a rich discourse requires a bit of study, but if you still plan to speak Kuhn pidgin,you might consider this inside track on the Kuhn paradigm. Quiet ferocity, but very much worth reading.	2003-09-14
994417:US	50592435	RYD4S623Q7MB8	1568582587	345430994	War Against the Weak Eugenics and America's Campaign to Create a Master Race	Books	5	107	123	N	N	From Eugenics to Newgenics	You learn something new everyday, here in an important book: the history of the American eugenics movement and its influence on the perpetrators of the Nazi version leading to the Holocaust. Sanitized or amnesiac history has forgotten the details here, and they are grisly, the more so being American data of record, deep in the many archives the author and his team researched. The details include the involvement of many of the foundations, Carnegie, Rockerfeller, et. al. The eugenics era is routinely denounced, but the facts are diffused from discussion and this book is eminently worth reading carefully to see how it actually happened. The account has eye-popping details on every second page,viz. the actual episodes of tracking down hill billies for enforced sterilization. That's right, in the US of A.<br />The cheerleading of the Eugenics movement for the Nazis continued right up through the beginning of World War II in certain scientific journals. After that eugenics became genetics, and the author explores at the end the implications of all this as we enter the age of the genome under the banner of genetic fundamentalism.<br />I would get this book under your belt asap, and it is also an indirect contribution to the legacy of historical Mendelism/Darwinism/Social Darwinism as these generated the milieu for this phase of Americana Goes Haywire. It can happen here. So watch it.	2003-08-29
999173:US	50592435	RIL82UY0RRLCO	0801064430	458637354	Doubts About Darwin: A History of Intelligent Design	Books	5	5	18	N	N	In the grip of the paradigm	The recent Intelligent Design movement and its controversies are producing their own history--and historians. This work gives an insider's take on this the latest episodic series of the great debate, with extended vignettes beginning with Denton's watershed Evolution: A Theory in Crisis.<br />What makes the book the more interesting is the perspective on Thomas Kuhn's study of paradigms brought, most appropriately, into the discussion. This was prefigured in Denton's asides in his Evolution: A Theory in Crisis where he throws up his hands and starts quoting Feyerbend, concluding with a swipe at the 'priority of the paradigm'. Whatever one thinks of the religious issues brought into the question of evolution (and the design issue is detached from that, at least on the surface, by the Intelligent Design group), we have a case of those outside the system of belief portrayed as trying to break down the hypnotic hold of the scientific ideology. It is a sad commentary on science.<br />Related to these Kuhnian issues is an extended discussion of the 'rhetoric of science' and its relationship to the discourses of both scientists and their critics. This added twist gives the book an extra depth.<br />Whatever one's views, the book is well worth reading. The Intelligent Design folk seem to be wishfully thinking they can induce a paradigm shift. Maybe.<br />But I fear it that more than Kuhnian paradigm mechanics is involved in the Medusa'd 'stone cold and out it' blank of the Top Dollar Science Regiment on Darwin. Paradigms are earnest beliefs deludedly held. One may see the light and snap out of it. But people who brazenly deceive don't undergo paradigm shifts. They tote up their media control, and otherwise don't 'give a darn'. (Most scientists don't fall in that category). The Darwin situation is much broader than the state of a theory stuck in 'normal science'. It is Top Dog propaganda for a whole style of civilization, with the Captains of Industry at risk. Hey, wall street could collapse if Darwin were found wrong. It has not so much to do with Science?! No way we will get a paradigm change. Fibs are not paradigms.<br />Very interesting work, however one feels about the current design discourse.ld collapse if Darwin were found wrong. It has not so much to do with Science?! No way we will get a paradigm change. Fibs are not paradigms.<BR>Very interesting work, however one feels about the current design discourse.	2003-08-26
1019013:US	50592435	R3E4T64TY4V7V2	067400387X	471307403	Martin Luther: The Christian between God and Death	Books	5	3	8	N	N	Dawn of a New Era	This work caught my attention from a phrase in the introduction concerning the issue of violence in the Reformation, French and Russian Revolutions. It seemed to echo the grumbling slant of Schama's 'Citizens', perhaps a conservative gesture of revisionism. Is Luther in the same category as Lenin? The history of the sixteenth century through the Thirty Years War will speak for itself perhaps. But,there is little further in this vein in the book, but the provocation makes for a most interesting perspective on Luther, whatever one's possible disagreements on the way. The opening pitch is about right for a critical review of the subject, and the portrait of the period and the man is gripping. We speak of the 'Reformation', but the author's take highlights the obvious, that this was the first modern revolution, albeit a conservatizing one, with the fascinating figure of Muntzer brought into the account. Luther is an ambiguous hero of--yes--modernity, and seems completely understandable given the grim world against which he rebelled, a sort of terminal zone of religious confusion, ignorance, and papal politics. We can and must 'moralize' about what might have been (did Luther provoke much of the violence of the Thirty Years War?), but history in motion seems to be like that, and the transition was not a question of nice people. A great figure is not beyond judgement.<br />The book omits none of the darker sides of Luther, his antisemitism, his compromise with the princes, his democratic impulses manque.<br />One comes away from a useful snapshot still askance at the author's eccentric but fertile starting point.	2003-08-08
1024949:US	50592435	R1GQJDPZL50ON1	0674931858	332257632	Utopian Thought in the Western World (Belknap Press)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Virtual Reality	This massive volume is one of the best on the subject of utopian themes and literature. The discredit foisted on the genre in the wake of Communism makes us forget the rich literature of the early modern, beginning with More, and proceeding through such figures as Harrington and many others. The rich detail of this history is beautifully summoned from its cultural archive, and the best critique of this art-form is not the obsessive &quot;I'm alright Jack&quot; of conservatives but the actual exploration of the history.	2003-08-03
1024980:US	50592435	R2MISNG57C48SW	0674763262	777343675	A Requiem for Karl Marx	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Great Caesar's Ghost	Marx makes better sense from his critics and having proceeded through all I could find in the JC series in the stacks I came across this one. Not bad, although a few cliches are crusting around the edges, this from the author of the fine mega-volume, Utopia in Western Thought. This title might go well with Derrida's Spectre of Marx. The problem is that people have been refuting him since the end of the nineteenth century, and many of these first critics were the most acute. Marx as a self-hating jew is a canard, although his tract on the Jewish Question is seen now rightly as a tale of unintended consequences. The strangeness of Marx lingers in the combination of brilliance and shoddiness that left his work bound in its mystique, one that loses the obvious insights of the 1840's journalist. All in all however this is worth reading.  Like a rubber duck, Marx always seems to reflotate, and the journalist of the 1840's still haunts modernity.	2003-08-03
1025155:US	50592435	R3BBXFNP559CFZ	0486669807	4092643	On Formally Undecidable Propositions of Principia Mathematica and Related Systems	Books	5	17	22	N	N	From the horse's mouth, 'le text'	Speaking not as a math specialist but one disposed to read a number of the popular explications of Godel's famous proof I can say that it was Godel's original text that did it for me. The reason is that it is the proof and not a lot of verbiage about the proof. And it is short and sweet. One problem is that the more common Turing Machine approach is actually 'easier', where Godel's approach is that of recursive functions which are more obscure, or at least less often discussed. If you can sort of glare at the recursive function issue and proceed with the basics of the proof it will stand out suddenly better than many of the popularizations. At least give it a try.	2003-08-03
1025416:US	50592435	R2N9I33WJNWWZQ	0801487005	635154238	Age of Contradiction: American Thought and Culture in the 1960s	Books	5	1	6	N	N	Last hurrahs	Evocative and also useful history of the sixties, more especially as to cultural thought at its sources than as chronicle history. Well documented and with more insight from hindsight that was actually present at the time, maybe. It's also true the conservatives nearly died of fright and the reaction set in, which also explains the eighties and nineties. As the authors note in closing, one of the spinoffs here for conservatives was the rapid emergence of sociobiology, hereditary traits drummed up to explain inequality, etc...<br />Worth reading, and as reference.	2003-08-03
1026780:US	50592435	ROJUY30L4WG9N	0631155104	56768454	Ideology and the Ideologists (Explorations in Interpretative Sociology)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Red Seas and Exiles	If you read ten books on the subject of ideology, this ought to be one of them. Taken alone it seems to miss mark, although its insights are many in the midst of a wrongheaded take on the subject. I picked it up again after reading Podheretz' The Prophets, and was left to wonder. The reason, Feuer traces the issues to the Old Testament itself. The last turn of the screw	2003-08-01
1026941:US	50592435	R8V30TRO48KQC	0195128745	21975060	The Worst Enemy of Science?: Essays in Memory of Paul Feyerabend	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Method in that madness	This series of essays reanimates the real Feyerbend, too often associated with a series of much denounced one-liners, such as the 'anything goes' pronouncement. In fact, Feyerbend rides the dialectical red zone in hairpin turns near the unexplored terrain where science fans, groupies, Darwin fanatics, and the 'anally overtrained' fear to tread, lest their weltanschaung be seen as Romantic poets once saw it. As a science fan myself, I can only watch in wonder and some sadness the 'social construction', in the age of Big Science, of something more sophisticated than, but not altogether different from, what the Church Fathers concocted from thin air, thereby freezing the minds of the many for millennia. It can't happen again, but it can attempt to happen again. That's the nice thing about science, you will lose all your paradigms, sooner better than later.	2003-08-01
1027185:US	50592435	R1EK9MORUF4SH8	0743219279	903312425	The Prophets: Who They Were, What They Are	Books	3	6	38	N	N	Old Testament as ideology	My first reaction to this book was moderate outrage, kneejerk politics, mind you, followed by grim satisfaction, the author should cap his conservative ministrations with re-entanglement with the altogether radical prophets of yore. The last embers of the once (and future) hothead still glimmering.<br />Need one indulge in the obvious observation that this proves an old charge, that the OT is ideology, a sentiment reminding one of Lewis Feuer's Ideology and Ideologists, a work so irate on the subject that it outstripped its anti-marxist tirade enough to find the source of the genre in the realm of the ancient Israelites.<br />The prophets are indeed remarkable by any reckoning in the mystery of the Axial Age, and science has not understood them. But the progression of Biblical Criticism has delivered the subject to a new world, and we are left with something almost more interesting than the 'last chance' efforts in a neo-conservative vein to keep American mentation in line and money flowing. Cf. The Bible Unearthed, by Silberman and Finkelstein.	2003-08-01
1027666:US	50592435	R34TOJ3XGYM7MU	0751202940	581020997	Science, Revolution and Discontinuity (Modern Revivals in Philosophy Series)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Scientific Revolutions	Long before the eruption of the science wars, which were more heat than light,and before the confusing associations of 'postmodernism', the 'critique of scientific reason', so to speak, proceeded apace in the post-Kuhnian dlliberations on science and methodology. This work travels lightly through the thought of the Big Four, Popper, Kuhn, Lakatos, and Feyerbend in brisk fashion. The issue of discontinuity tends to remain irresolvable, and yet the idea of a scientific revolution in the seventeenth century endures despite the many confusions of the idea.	2003-08-01
1029200:US	50592435	R2UU5L6KO3C234	0375408835	497600540	Parting the Desert: The Creation of the Suez Canal	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Globalization	This story of the construction of the Suez Canal tells us the dilemmas of globalization are nothing new. A very brisk telling of that monumental task and the historical background behind it. Like a magnet energizing filings the history of the Canal animates multiple strains of nineteenth century history in concert, from Napoleon in Egypt, to nineteenth century industrialization, the rise of imperialism, the modernization of Egypt, or the era of Napoleon 3. The protagonists are de Lessep, whose determination to get the job done is heroic, and Mohammed and Said Pasha, attempting defensive modernization of Egypt, finally Ismail Pasha, whose misteps lead to the debacle of the British taking over Egypt.<br />This tale is topical, for the Eurocentric exhortations to modernization tend to forget how an almost stronger willingness in the nineteenth century got burned in the attempt by the Mephistopheles of global finance. Very vivid history, and essential background for the current cultural politics of westernization.	2003-07-30
1031704:US	50592435	R13SRTQ9IH7OHI	0375415289	486101271	In Search of Zarathustra: The First Prophet and the Ideas That Changed the World	Books	5	3	4	N	N	End times and mysterious beginnings	This book does indeed go in search of Zarathustra, starting in the present and going backwards. Perhaps the real Zarathustra can never be found, for we see him through a host of shimmering filters, the last of which is Nietzsche, who composed his theme with decided variations just in the period in which this the most ancient of prophets was being resurrected by nineteenth century scholarship.<br />Backwards...Islam, the gnostic world, the Persian Exile, then...When did Zarathustra really live? We still don't know, and we should suspect that we still don't really understand the core of his message, since it is always cast in the key of what came later.<br />His teaching sprang from a world just recently separated linguistically from the Vedic, and it is interesting that 'deava' and its cognates crystallize on the one hand as 'god' and on the other as 'devil'. There you have it. Polytheism turning monotheism, and reaching by logical musical chairs to a duality. It is should be courteously pointed out that monotheism was never invented, for these reasons, as Nietzsche suspected, even as he went completely haywire.<br />One might also read N. Cohn's Cosmos and Chaos here, and the discussion of the 'Aryan combat myth'.<br />This book is nice, in search of Zarathustra indeed. Hits the spot. More should be known about this tradition. It is pervasive in disguise in all later monotheism and all the basic elements are Zoroastrian.	2003-07-28
1031850:US	50592435	R2MUOLZF8STRBJ	0880502002	480908130	The Rajneesh Bible, Vol. 1	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Aha, the buddhas, another specimen	Not being a follower of Rajneesh, and mindful of the confusing legacy of his movement of which I was an early critic, all of which I find tragic, I nonetheless will always recall the eerie flood of books he produced starting in the mid seventies. Strange times, I hated the man, but as a speed reader zipped through two hundred of his books, beautiful first editions from Bombay, now disappearing. Whatever your take on the man, he was nothing if not interesting, and he produced a universe of discourse that is of historical value, and it is a pity to see the original texts start to disappear. The sugar coated reprints are a distortion to say the least.<br />This series called the Rajneesh Bible is one of the most monumental critiques of organized religion ever penned, and is a reminder that founders of religion and the religions history leaves us don't get along at all. It is unbelievable really, a level of savage anger that is stunning, and it just goes on and on for three volumes of caustic comment.<br />Rajneesh said somewhere (his commentaries on Patanjali)that the 'Buddha phenomenon' needs to be studied, and that's true. The New Age movement has produced such a long list of casualties here that the whole thing seems less than what the sutras tell us of Gautama (probably distorted). Figuring out where this man went wrong in the middle of getting something right is a case study in a special world of madmen ordinary life can't handle. They'll make sure you forget him.	2003-07-28
1031910:US	50592435	R3H20RQSV997R	0395759242	966326914	King Leopold's Ghost: A Story of Greed, Terror, and Heroism in Colonial Africa	Books	5	1	1	N	N	To Flood His Deeds With Day	&quot;I knew almost nothing abour the history of the Congo until a few years ago, when I noticed a footnote in a book I happened to be reading...&quot; So the author recounts the beginnings of his book.<BR>This experience in one form another is frequent in this area, it seems. <BR>The abstractions of discourse over imperiaism are often counterproductive. There is nothing like getting down to cases. This work on King Leopold in the Congo is truly outstanding as history and the uncovering of the distortion of history, the 'great forgetting' as the author calls it, that occurred at the end of Leopold's 'holocaust' of millions when the archives were systematically destroyed. The book opens appropriately with the arrival of the slavers in the sixteenth century in the ancient Kongo whose very intellignet king Affonso attempted to forestall the beginnings of what was to be the coming centuries of European barbarism. Henry Stanley also fares poorly and the lead up and biographical portraits of the explorer and of Leopold set the stage for the entry into the account of Moret, the shipping clerk who noticed the anomalies in the company records, slavery was the only conclusion. <BR>Even now, this saga of modern history too seldom receives mention in the accounts of Bolshevism, Nazism, and subsequent genocides. And yet the shadow of the 'revenge drama' stalks all accounts, for this period and its dreadful horrors saw the onset of the counterreaction in the double tragedy. One can almost feel Lenin's blood coming to a boil, reading this excellent account of the generation that made that revolutionary's revenge come true.<BR>Mistah Kurtz, he dead.	2003-07-28
1031971:US	50592435	R3R2DUOF7J0VRM	014027541X	727745356	The Fabric of Reality: The Science of Parallel Universes--and Its Implications	Books	5	5	14	N	N	Rent fabric	In the spectrum of quantum interpretations the parallel universe version has a beguiling science fiction charm, but seems to suffer the same fate as the intimations of 'platonic ideas': they seem to be there, but what is 'existence'? Til mathematicians decide, rogue physics can define no boundary to its abstractions and we find this phantom of the multiverse tricking us into borderline reality. Out in left field then, we suspect.<br />A very interesting book, which outstripped my competence, but which also struck me in another way, due to its fond wish for the higher coherence of physics, evolution, epistemology, and computation, taken into some unity.<br />I am often baffled by a genuine puzzle, why so many brilliant physicists can't see the flaws in Darwin's theory. This book unwittingly shows the reason, the projected 'consilience' of subjects, the ambition to complete the foundations for a Total World View, veil the transition of brilliant physics to Darwinian muddle, in the name of reductionism. It doesn't add up, and the wished for plug in unit in the ascent on complexity needs more than Dawkins' genetic 'evolutionary particle'. From genius to idiot.<br />The funny thing is the brilliant intuition of parallel worlds, however that is to be taken. For we see in historical evolution a mysterious parallel effect, in the so-called 'Axial Age', as historical evolution branches into a synchronous phase. So maybe all this is onto something.<br />The big puzzle: why are all the world's best physicists confused about Darwinism?	2003-07-28
1032470:US	50592435	R37DMFG81S1XNX	0671492632	752943787	Evolution from Space	Books	5	9	20	N	N	A classic Darwin critique	Noone realizes it but this work is a classic on the issue of Darwinism. It has been 'refuted' so many times and still survives one must wonder if it doesn't scare Darwinists. One doesn't have to accept their perspective to see that the statistical difficulties of the original Darwinian theory were fatal, and should have been seen all along.<br />Attempts to deal with statistics in the Darwinian field have left a generation confused on the subject. The paradigm, to survive, has to keep the troops muddled.	2003-07-28
1032657:US	50592435	R1230FI67O9N9P	0395759242	966326914	King Leopold's Ghost: A Story of Greed, Terror, and Heroism in Colonial Africa	Books	5	2	3	N	N	To Flood His Deeds With Day	&quot;I knew almost nothing abour the history of the Congo until a few years ago, when I noticed a footnote in a book I happened to be reading...&quot; So the author recounts the beginnings of his book.<br />This experience in one form another is frequent in this area, it seems.<br />The abstractions of discourse over imperiaism are often counterproductive. There is nothing like getting down to cases. This work on King Leopold in the Congo is truly outstanding as history and the uncovering of the distortion of history, the 'great forgetting' as the author calls it, that occurred at the end of Leopold's 'holocaust' of millions when the archives were systematically destroyed. The book opens appropriately with the arrival of the slavers in the sixteenth century in the ancient Kongo whose very intellignet king Affonso attempted to forestall the beginnings of what was to be the coming centuries of European barbarism. Henry Stanley also fares poorly and the lead up and biographical portraits of the explorer and of Leopold set the stage for the entry into the account of Moret, the shipping clerk who noticed the anomalies in the company records, slavery was the only conclusion.<br />Even now, this saga of modern history too seldom receives mention in the accounts of Bolshevism, Nazism, and subsequent genocides. And yet the shadow of the 'revenge drama' stalks all accounts, for this period and its dreadful horrors saw the onset of the counterreaction in the double tragedy. One can almost feel Lenin's blood coming to a boil, reading this excellent account of the generation that made that revolutionary's revenge come true.<br />Mistah Kurtz, he dead.	2003-07-28
1033292:US	50592435	R1EZX0R39227HJ	0060936649	302174200	Wittgenstein's Poker: The Story of a Ten-Minute Argument Between Two Great Philosophers	Books	5	0	5	N	N	Logical and dialectical positivism	This tale must be the proof, there's a dialectic, after all, and a counterexample to the idea that philosophy should be without a history. This charming diversion highlights the saga of twentieth century quite precisely and deftly touches all bases. Of as much interest is the background of Vienna in the age still of Jewish assimilation, the coming of the war, and the tales of refugee philosophers. It is also a question, stoking the fire with something like Wittgenstein's poker, where is philosophy going? Perhaps it is turning in gyre, in a virtual mode that seems out of season in a chaotic age so well-organized on the surface.<br />No problem with gossip, good starting point for a study of modern philosphy!	2003-07-27
1034167:US	50592435	R3GQZOE1DZU879	0691009139	329934345	A Century of Genocide: Utopias of Race and Nation	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Holocausts	Interesting analytical comparative history of genocide in the twentieth century, in Russia, Germany, Cambodia, and Serbia. After invoking the case of Armenia the author shows the common core of these four in the light of the nineteenth century tide of race and nationalism. The emergence of race as a concept is demonized now, but the legacy of Darwinism tends to be underplayed, although the account makes clear the mood of Social Darwinist confusion leading up to the First World War and its coarsening of spirits (and Armenian overture) resulting in the walpurgisnacht to come. The concept of genocide was arguably miscast, since it applies too technically to racial issues. (Cf.The emergence of the term and the Genocide treaty, along with the life of its inventor Lemkin in A Problem from Hell. Also the case of Rwanda should be included, cf. A People Betrayed, by L. R. Melvern)	2003-07-26
1035029:US	50592435	R253KVO7MW4RSG	185649831X	586628128	A People Betrayed: The Role of the West in Rwanda's Genocide	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Fine words that counted for nothing	After all the fine words and 'never agains' the truth is out. Genocide will slip right in front of major organs of news and nothing happens to stop it.<br />This short but detailed account of the Rwanda genocide 1994 is both low-key and shocking and needs examination.	2003-07-25
1039237:US	50592435	R3GHV4A7HS22W0	0385127103	88680534	Early Man and the Ocean: A Search for the Beginnings of Navigation and Seaborne Civilizations	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Riddles of diffusion	Although I do not agree with all of Heyerdahl's perspectives or theories (some of which are being tested in the negative with new DNA tracing techniques) this book is still worth reading in part because of one of the most acute studies of the isolationist-diffusionist controversy, especially with respect to the Atlantic side of the debate, where the riddle of the Olmecs and the New World civilizations get consistently incorrect histories. Hopefully this side of the author's legacy after judicious sifting and updating won't be lost. For various reasons, among them the insistence, due to incorrect Darwinian views, on independent cultural evolution, and the speculations of crank theorists, the fairly simple facts of the case are rarely presented.<br />There are very few historians willing to consider the issues here, Cyrus Gordon in Before Columbus, being one. This is one of those areas where establshed scholarship is determined to not get it right, and the careful arguments in the book are classic and pretty well ignored.	2003-07-22
1042888:US	50592435	R2VYDHCW2CQKTA	0805070966	428081766	Enough: Staying Human in an Engineered Age	Books	5	2	10	N	N	Born again robot	Gregory Stock's Resdesigning Humans left me wondering if I had bitten on the hook, and this work screwed up my courage to realize I have been sifting disinfo here. The point: can one trust what one reads on this subject?<br />I cannot cross the line to completely opposing genetic futurism but it seems out of control already and something appears to be going awry in the early innings down in the Frankenstone crypt, thus McKibben's book shows the right stuff as indifference to currently-being-manufactured opinion. His case of the Amish seems wrong, the simplest case of restraint, if it could be called that, of nuclear proliferation, right. It is possible to take the hard road. Thus, the author points out how the theme of twist-your-arm inevitability of technological 'whatever we scientists please'enforces the 'rule of passivity' from our 'expert betters'. Time to take a stance, and call a hitech ayn rand fanatic grokking on The Age of Spiritual Machines a hitech idiot. The fact has to be faced that science currently has no sound definition of man, no theory of evolution to explain him, classifies dissenters as kooks or cranks (Buddhists) and does not tell the truth in scientific media about what it knows or doesn't know. Fortunately, the 'noumenal' side of man must be unknowable, so our geneticists must be in the business of Halloween costumes, cosmetic 'bawds' and 'body suits'.<br />The book is quite convincing in a practical way, and goes through the absurd scenarios of athletic, IQ, and other assorted genetic arms races, and makes its case without moral posturing. Important red light warning. Recommended.	2003-07-19
1045529:US	50592435	R1PUSXFXLZCTKE	0679429328	701258128	Charles Darwin:The Power of Place	Books	5	10	22	N	N	The Origins of 'My' Theory	As a Darwin critic, I had passed this book by nose in the air, a full scale boycott, but a new biography of Darwin proved too hard to resist and I broke down and read the book, fortunately, since it turned out to be hard to put down, in a time-out on the Darwin debate. This is the second volume, but is fine taken alone, and opens with the arrival of the famous Ternate letter of Wallace. I was eagle-eyed at once, since this is the 'gulch' of Darwin biographica where the mystery of the origin of 'Origin' is beset with myth, coverup and suspicion. This treatment finesses the question slightly, but is a good depiction of how Darwinians actually see this strange moment of the priority dispute. From there it is plain sailing in a history best told by a Darwin fan, no doubt, and I found the accumulation of tidbits excellent, and a compelling read. One also has the Moore & Desmond account, with its clearer focus on the ideological dimension, but, in fact, this account cogently shows the world of nineteenth century cultural establishments in action at close hand, and the place of Darwin in that context--there is no mystery to the successful promotion of his views, given this picture. This is just about the 'baseline' Darwin biography and superb on its own turf.<br />Back to the Darwin debate.	2003-07-17
1049692:US	50592435	R1AT8M78HXT7IZ	0765809184	112172483	Consciousness and Society	Books	5	13	18	N	N	Positivistic Influences	This is an important book that is deservedly back in print and well worth reading at a time when we seem to be reliving the mistakes of the positivistic surge at the end of the nineteenth century, deja vu all over again. The crash of the Hegelian movement and the reversal of thought in the post-Hegelian generation saw many influenced by the (quite metaphysical) Comtean positivism, among them none other than Charles Darwin. The effect is practically cast in granite in the works of Marx who unwittinlgy signatures the trend. The tide of positivism carrying its distinct set of hidden metaphysical premises and limits was fairly well exposed at the time, but in the age of dominant Darwinism it has made a comeback in disguise. Hughes goes through the whole development tracing the stream of influences and gives us an significant portrait of intellectual history we seemed doomed to relive none the wiser. (Reviewed from memory, I think I got it right)	2003-07-14
1058442:US	50592435	R141HHYA1JK8B	0805059644	423554558	The Pity of It All: A History of the Jews in Germany, 1743-1933	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Pity--and terror	Perhaps the two Aristotelian emotions of the tragic are relevant, pity--and terror.<br />Some of the great cultural advances come through the blending of differences. Human tribalism notwithstanding, nature seems to have done this trick on the divide of Christians and Jews, starting in the period of the Enlightenement, and then at a floodtide in the post-Napoleonic era of the liberation. This book demonstrates such a flowering--and then its unreasonable destruction just at the point where Jews/Christians were set to escape from a terrible legacy. It is a story with many fascinating vignettes, starting with Moses Mendelssohn's early youth, and many vital characters, from Maimon, who appears from nowhere to expound on Kant, to Heine and his ambivalent poetics, to, of course, Marx, said to be the self-hating jew, but not so different from type in this strange and brief generation of 'conversions'. Whence this tragedy, whose collosal waste has deprived a civilization of its own fruits? As the finale approaches the answer seems to recede from the conventional issues of anti-semitism to the mysteries of radical evil.<br />But I think nature benign, and the future should ask for the original path once on its way to its splendid flowering and mutual enrichment.	2003-07-07
1063750:US	50592435	RZITC6GHS75CI	0375501568	81872394	Beyond Belief: The Secret Gospel of Thomas	Books	5	4	9	N	Y	Organized religion--and disorganized	This continuation of Pagels' The Gnostic Gospels is a first-rate portrait of the early development of Christianity from its mysterious sources to its Constantinian phase of 'deep freeze'. The Gnostic roots, or else, echoes, in Christianity should have been an obvious truth of history, but history buried it, to the diminishing of the final result. Pagel's account is liberating and a quiet expose. The history of early Christianity is probably impossible to really tell, as is the 'real' history of 'gnosticism', whose Zoroastrian, Indian, or other influences lurk forever veiled behind the figure of Jesus himself. Although it is true that the later orthodoxy destroyed the diversity of the early church, our age has seen a flood of 'gnostics live' in the many New Age movements, and the mystique of the subject is now subject to the lifeguard's warning that the sharks are in a new feeding frenzy, the gurus are all available to supply the new demand. Watch out. Islam with it sufism, and India with its gurus has had plenty of gnostic touches, but it would seem ironic that the West was more able to express, at last, a culture of human autonomy than the rest. So the picture of the dilemma of the Church is not a simple question.<br />But Pagels' account is a book for the times, and a wake up call for the creative renewal of creative religious culture.	2003-07-02
1064215:US	50592435	R2AKAS799AGHE4	0140092501	887185706	Chaos: Making a New Science	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Strange attractors	This is good coda and accompaniement to Gleick's recent book on Isaac Newton and is a classic chestnut in this subject, the 'later career' of the mechanics, born to such exactitude and the solid hopes of hard-wired physical law. The troubles began in the eighteenth/nineteenth century as the new analytical mechanics began to reckon with the Newtonian implications of the three body problem, and Poincare, the real discoverer of chaos, takes it from there. His prodigious powers of visualization of the problem short of the real instruments, before the days of computers, to calculate the details is practically a myth of the ancient giants. Resurfacing in the age of the brainy digit crunchers, physics will never be the same, even subtracting the hype that tends to mystify the onrush of complexity theory.	2003-07-02
1067483:US	50592435	R2HPQFLSUK01LS	0375422331	168525794	Isaac Newton	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Mechanization of the world picture	A fascinating snapshot portrait of the great and beguiling Newton who stands in a paradoxical relationship to his progenies, successors, epigones. There are several much longer and more detailed bios, but this one is to the point with quick takes on the major episodes, from Newton's youth in the Shire, his entry to the Cambridge world, the great years of his discovery of the calculus, his professorship years and the publication of Principia, all ending in the escapade of the Royal Mint.<br />Still a creature in some medieval world, Newton seems to spawn his great science as an afterthought to his obcure alchemical investigations, and the stubborn quirkiness of his mind is endearing and seems to monkey's uncle his straight and true succession in the coming era of reductionist flatfooters.<br />The author muses that Newton liberated physics from philosophy, and worries this physics was _too_ succesful,with an aside on the arch opponent Blake. I think too many modern physicists suffer amnesia on the history here, and the dialectical convulsion that was more than resistance to the inevitable. The attempted course correction of Kant is forgotten, the Romantic movement excoriated, the attempted distinctions of geistewissenshaft and naturwissenschaft rereduced to the 'Two Cultures' diatribe....The list goes on in the history of reactions to the philosophic quagmire into which Newtonianism led general culture, even as the method itself goes on to many triumphs, in the realm of physics.<br />In a word the legacy of Newton is a false view of man, Blake's nightmare come true, and it seems that his work produced a race of the smart idiots who can't see the limits of his method, a triumph of cultural stupidity, not the least was the bungled job of Darwinian theory which fails as it tries to ape the universal natural law, Newton's realm. The final legacy is the positivistic obsessions of the sociobiologists. Good read, and one can backtrack to the next episode, in the author's book on Chaos theory.k on Chaos theory.	2003-06-30
1080628:US	50592435	R285BNKP6NJP2N	0525946802	871755808	Picasso's War	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Guernica-- et la Guerre	Brisk biography of a great apparition, Picasso's meditation on war, and the atrocity of the bombing of the Basques. Detached,almost remote from politics Picasso is suddenly drawn into a protest against the fascist tide in the period of the Spanish Civil War, the outcome the masterpiece one once saw many times at Moma--the author recounts the return of this orphaned msterpice to Spain after its long years of exile and rejection by Franco's spain. Well told, important story.	2003-06-20
1092276:US	50592435	R1VI970HHVBXHV	0201959879	221499150	Huxley: From Devil's Disciple To Evolution's High Priest (Helix Books)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Theory, ideology and paradigm mechanization	This is one of the best bios of Huxley ever written (cf. also the more theoretical work of Shellie Lyons) and seems a natural companion to Moore & Desmond's work, Darwin: The Tormented Evolutionist.<br />The new style of Darwin studies takes the legacy of such as John Greene and others and zeroes in on the social context of the emergence of the theory as ideologically charged.<br />In Huxley's case one sees the generational change breaking the Anglican monopoly of the Paley-ites, but in the process creating a new establishment in the conservative revolution of Darwin's theory.<br />What is remarkable is that Darwin's bulldog had an initial clarity that drove him to defend Darwin on evolution, but demur on natural selection. How ironic. Le plus ca change!<br />It is hard to impossible to take theories of evolution in complete seriousness as pure science when we see the almost outrageous social darwinist cast to the whole operation. Huxley, to his credit, saw things differently toward the end in his final classic Evolution and Ethics. Would that the generations springing from his first great defense of the theory could come to his final regrets. Nice work.	2003-06-11
1110788:US	50592435	R2DH9LOND2DK2J	0195150457	574334927	Where Darwin Meets the Bible: Creationists and Evolutionists in America	Books	5	15	27	N	N	One long argument	This is an invaluable, and balanced, account of the Darwin debate, with particular attention to the Creationist initiatives of the last generation, climaxing in the Intelligent Design movement with its battle for the schools. The many interviews include vignettes of most of the major players, and help to fill in the behind-the-scenes dynamics of the two camps in ways partisans do not. The period starting with Philip Johnson's Darwin on Trial is especially well covered.<br />Despite rooting for the science camp, I was struck by the rigidity of the scientific camp and the clear feeling one gets that this is an artificially created culture war that results from the disastrous legacy of reductionist theories promoted ambitiously to rewrite culture from top to bottom. The gang of crackpots that has made evolution service their atheist obsessions has distorted its whole development. That's not a statement in favor of theism in evolution, but of deceptive science used to promote an agenda based on bogus proofs by natural selection. The integrity of science is at risk. The metaphysics of atheism is as severe as the theistic. This has distorted the exposure of the flaws in the theory, all along.<br />It could never have succeeded and we see the growth of resistance.<br />What seems surprising and sad is how little the broader spectrum of culture beyond the Creationist niche is aware of or involved in the issues. This abdication of the field by mainstream culture is a puzzle, for the problems with Darwin's theory are not so hard to uncover. One reason is the clear disinformation of overly promoted and under-examined scientism. Part if the reason is the savage attack on the 'two cultures' which were put there to cooperate by constructively opposites perspectives. Now noone would dare think aloud lest they get mauled by the mad horde in the Dawkins jihad.<br />Since much of the debate is about schools one is struck by the tenacity of scientific obtuseness on evolution, and one must conclude that specialized education is to blame. Scientists tend to be very good about technical subjects but unable to see the broader implications of Darwinism and the harm done by positivistic thinking made general in the name of science. This has nothing to do with religion versus science, as such, and indicates the one dimensional attitude that science in general explains everything, and Darwinism in particular is the great world historical breakthrough that is was not.<br />This is a very thorough book, and recommended for coming to grips with the cultural politics of evolution.<br />We need a debriefing of Darwin sometime soon. But the Darwin establishment as this book indicates is so entrenched that this seems unlikely.<br />It is a scandal that fundamentalists have been the principal party to perform this task. Since I dislike Creationism, that is saying something!conclude that specialized education is to blame. Scientists tend to be very good about technical subjects but unable to see the broader implications of Darwinism and the harm done by positivistic thinking made general in the name of science. This has nothing to do with religion versus science, as such, and indicates the one dimensional attitude that science in general explains everything, and Darwinism in particular is the great world historical breakthrough that is was not. <BR>This is a very thorough book, and recommended for coming to grips with the cultural politics of evolution. <BR>We need a debriefing of Darwin sometime soon. But the Darwin establishment as this book indicates is so entrenched that this seems unlikely. <BR>It is a scandal that fundamentalists have been the principal party to perform this task. Since I dislike Creationism, that is saying something!	2003-05-26
1121305:US	50592435	R1X7ASVMY241UC	1859846955	586172298	An Act of State: The Execution of Martin Luther King	Books	5	36	42	N	N	News fit to print, but...	This is the account of King lawyer William Pepper's pursuit of the facts in the King assassination, and his denouement of the evidence, centering on the successful civil suit of Lloyd Jowers, a local resident with a business across the street from the motel murder site and with a connection to the murder, which led to the unraveling. The credentials of the ringleaders and perpetrates are very impressive indeed and include J. Edgar ('the' J. Edgar),the CIA, FBI, Memphis Police Department and assorted sordid Mob hoodlums. That's quite a team. But then the motive appears to have centered on the decision by Martin Luther King to bring the focus of his movement on poverty and the Vietnam War. It took the jury one hour to decide that:<br />1. Yes--Lloyd Jowers participated in a conspiracy to do harm to Martin Luther King<br />2. Yes--Others including governmental agencies were parties to this conspiracy as alleged by the defendant.<br />This should have been headline news, but the story never survived, and it wasn't news to me until I stumbled on the book in the library, and I read a lot of books.<br />I hope you find out too.	2003-05-17
1131878:US	50592435	R312IRZY53A1OO	0226443396	997655698	The Unsteady March: The Rise and Decline of Racial Equality in America	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Up the down escalator	Highly interesting and useful book with a simple but effective history: put the whole history of civil rights struggle in one line, since the Revolutionary war. The result shows immediately the tiding of the struggle for racial equality, and the correlation of eras of advance with the periods of major war, the Revolutionary, Civil, and Second World Wars to be exact. Too often we see the efforts of abolitionists in the generation before the Civil War without seeing the similar history during the Revolutionary period, and then the falling away of advance into retrogression in the early nineteenth century. And then again after Reconstruction. The rise of the Civil Rights movement after the Second World War, next also to the need to repair the image of the American system in the Cold War, falls into place therefore as the next incremental advance in an undertow of resistance, backsliding and the Jim Crow curse. We seem to be, or have entered, another of the doldrum eras, and the prospect seems alarming, although each period of advance maintains some portion of its gains. At a period of neo-liberal machinations made in Texas we need hardly bother to wonder why affirmative action is under attack, etc...<br />One has to wonder, finally, at the botched legacy of the Constitutional era. It seems less than fully convincing all at once that the founders were unable to resist compromise. The results have been a horrendous series of obstructions.<br />As the dot.gov goes into action in Iraq, it is worth wondering if they are qualified. American history shows one way to blow it. Vigilance.	2003-05-07
1135096:US	50592435	R1EZGERSTR3NKE	0271009357	549301548	Marx's Fate: The Shape of a Life	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A man for the times? The experience of defeat	This is one of the most useful and interesting of the Marx biographies and shows us another Marx, behind the man of fiction who was a later invention. Christopher Hill in _The Experience of Defeat_ details a host of figures in the English Civil War, from the Levellers to the Fifth Monarchists, who were written out of history, and who had to live with failed revolutionary lifetimes. We forget the actual experience of Marx, the experience of defeat after 1848, and his persistence nonetheless without illusions documenting the capitalism of his time and era. After the grotesquerie of the twentieth century Communists it is significant to remember this other Marx.<br />This is surely the experience of the current left, and one might expect it to end as forgotten as the defeated figures from Munzer onward--save that the right will not rest, and will reinvent slavery or worse if left to their devices, while the current left fantasies a series of leftist fictions, among them about Marx.<br />It might help to look at the failure of Marxist theory, the experience of defeat, behind the unique brilliance of Marx, and at least know the history, starting with Marx's challenge to Hegel's philosophy of right. This work shows the problems that Marx experienced in his theoretical struggles, and shows, for example, the inability of Marx to complete his life's project, Capital. This aspect of the book is compelling, and often quietly filtered out. Marxists have rarely known what they are talking about, but, like the Levellers, will always accompany the definition of modernism.<br />Very acute biography.	2003-05-05
1143030:US	50592435	R191Q7JGOBAH25	0520207432	474980498	The Myth of Continents: A Critique of Metageography	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Continental divides	This stimulating challenge to conventional geography should be an essential ingredient to your next upgrade of your metageographical basics, world history as one for a change. The book is a nice debriefing of the several myths that distort that history. One of the main culprits is the East-West divide, whose illusory divide as to culture obsesses too many, butis one of the chief offenders, along with the notion of a 'western civilization' whose boundaries, content and latent ethnocentricism deserve a reminder that the East was always built into the West and vice versa. The Greek myth of Europa was always misleading, no? and isn't the realm of the Israelites the East, then?<br />One of the liabilities of Toynbean style analysis into 'civilizations' has been the failure to see the inherent unity of one 'Civilization' emerging in a series of partially diffentiated versions, rendering the many distinctions misleading, and quite tribalistic. A good example is the case of Japan which modernized sooner than much of Europe, it is a question of 'information', not of continents.<br /> Fascinating take on 'metageography' and a good rolfing of some archaic concepts we take for granted.	2003-04-28
1144176:US	50592435	R3K6VF3OMJM56X	081292861X	3719303	Bombshell : The Secret Story of America's Unknown Atomic Spy Conspiracy	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The hidden Los Alamos mole at the onset of proliferation	Beyond Fuchs et al, there had always been suspicions of an extra spy. Now we know. This is the gripping account of Ted Hall,code name Mlad, a teenage whiz kid who suddenly found himself at Los Alamos, savy enough to be at the dead center of bomb calculations, and deciding for idealistic reasons, refusing all payment, to share the secret of the atomic weapon with the Russians. Soon the a virtually complete description of how to construct a weapon is in the hands of the Communists. It is interesting that the original communication was decoded in the late forties, and that he was almost caught, but simply slipped through, until the opening of the archives after 1989.	2003-04-26
1144597:US	50592435	R38WB2HR3JG240	0231104839	494333380	Israel and the Bomb	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Israel's nuclear opacity	Interesting account of the secret development of the Israeli atomic bomb, starting in the fifties with the decision of Ben Gurion, and his persistence. One can hardly exempt Israel from the general charges against proliferation, but at least in this instance there is a certain discipline to the endeavor, and, so far, no mad bomber routines. To be sure, Israel is a special case, the factor of deterrence has surely been more than abstraction. And one can only cheer at the destruction of the Iraq reactor.<br />But this work is interesting for the description of the insidious tactics of 'opacity' in the public discourse of Israel on the subject, that is, the engineered lack of discourse. We invade Iraq to nix the nukes, while Israel simply slipped into half-invisible mode. That is changing now, and the author ponders the future here. Quo vadis?	2003-04-26
1144622:US	50592435	RSEG5P1G0CH35	0671748955	490460143	Critical Mass: The Dangerous Race for Superweapons in a Fragmenting World	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Mutual Assured Dementia	Although slightly displaced by developments in Iraq, this book remains of interest and contains a good brief madman portrait of Hussein's atomic bomb attempts, in the context of the greater history of nuclear proliferation since the American opening of Pandora's box, now seen in its consequences a generation later. The brief snapshots of the sordid history are effective,  India, Pakistan, China, Israel, the Osirak reactor, to the bit players and their arms merchants and the underworld of financial hoodlums, e.g.BCCI. One is struck by the sheer and immense waste of resources, especially in the case of Hussein, enough money to have turned Iraq into a highly developed nation, instead... Unfortunately the USA had a choice, and made that choice, to use the bomb. Right or wrong? The problem is obvious, noone in the political nuthouse will ever listen again to the dangers of proliferation, in the scramble for national 'safety'.	2003-04-26
1148159:US	50592435	R5CQNC06BI9OU	067401023X	235261394	Darwin and Design: Does Evolution Have a Purpose?	Books	4	16	31	N	N	The infinite loop of the Darwin debate	The sense of design in nature, and evolution, is an issue that might prosper better anywhere but in a monotheistic and/or a Darwinian culture. For the debate over design, which has gone on too long and is really a stalemate, is more a battle over religious or secular foundations of culture, in which misleading or specious arguments on both sides constantly confuse the issue. The 'design sense', if not the argument by design, is a primordial intuition, impossible to avoid, clearly evident in Heraclitus, who wasn't a Southern Baptist, and not yet stultified by the sophistries on both sides of this question. The point is that Heraclitus clearly groped for the middle ground beyond Zeus, something like 'logos', he was fishing for words.<br />Would we were still so fresh in our perceptions. There is no escape from this 'design sense', for example, as we examine the stupendous complexity and developmental subtlety of biochemical structures. Couldn't the profession at least stop deceiving students to the degree of admitting this might be the result of a complex system, a point made by such as Kauffman in At Home in the Universe? Too much to hope for.<br />This interesting but self-limiting new work by M. Ruse,which is a useful read,  reviewing the history of the issue from the ancients to Darwin and successors, declares early on, as proven, its stubborn allegiance to the bone of contention, the efficacy of natural selection as the mechanism of evolution. That freezes the argument from the beginning, and illustrates the concealed metaphysical derivation at work in most biological thought on evolution, where the final desired conclusion is made the first assumption. I fear the result is to go around in circles, even though the tale of the nineteenth century development of biology remains interesting. One can understand the care, and not a little defensiveness, Darwinists wish to bring to their heritage of revolt against the world of Paley, but it should be a simple matter to acknowledge the limitations of natural selection, acknowledge the 'design sense' without exploiting it as the 'argument by design' and proceeding with no more than a partial claim to the nature of evolution. But no such luck.<br />I think Ruse unwittingly shows the difficulty early on in the book where he lumps the philosopher Kant together with Paley. But Kant has no business being given this treatment, and in many ways went to the heart of the problem in the progression of his thought from a 'critique of reason' to a 'critique of teleological (and esthetic) judgement'. The Darwin debate, as his work prophetically foretells, is stuck in the loop of the 'antinomy of teleological judgement', and this dialectical infinite loop has gone since the beginnning, and is the one thing that even brilliant scientists might get wrong, in case we fall for the claim that so many Nobel prizers can't be wrong.<br />It is a pity Kant has been sidelined here. And a scandal. The Kant profession is so intimidated that no reply to this nonsense will be forthcoming, Darwinian philosophers simply get a free hand. The point is that Kant shows the way to distinguishing divinity from nature, and a cautious way to deal with teleological questions in nature, without bringing in theology. And the early nineteenth century biologists before Darwin had a thriving research tradition in this vein, one that Darwin did not truly rebut.<br />Anyway, the book is breezily interesting in its own way, and has a summary of the recent 'intelligent design'movement brouhaha. But the intelligent design wing is too sneaky to be trusted, ditto the Darwinists. Perhaps the subject should be exported to a non-Christian country that has never heard of Darwin, then we might get somewhere. Tierra Del Fuego?cknowledge the limitations of natural selection, acknowledge the 'design sense' without exploiting it as the 'argument by design' and proceeding with no more than a partial claim to the nature of evolution. But no such luck. <br />I think Ruse unwittingly shows the difficulty early on in the book where he lumps the philosopher Kant together with Paley. But Kant has no business being given this treatment, and in many ways went to the heart of the problem in the progression of his thought from a 'critique of reason' to a 'critique of teleological (and esthetic) judgement'. The Darwin debate, as his work prophetically foretells, is stuck in the loop of the 'antinomy of teleological judgement', and this dialectical infinite loop has gone since the beginnning, and is the one thing that even brilliant scientists might get wrong, in case we fall for the claim that so many Nobel prizers can't be wrong. <BR>It is a pity Kant has been sidelined here. And a scandal. The Kant profession is so intimidated that no reply to this nonsense will be forthcoming, Darwinian philosophers simply get a free hand. The point is that Kant shows the way to distinguishing divinity from nature, and a cautious way to deal with teleological questions in nature, without bringing in theology. And the early nineteenth century biologists before Darwin had a thriving research tradition in this vein, one that Darwin did not truly rebut.  <BR>Anyway, the book is breezily interesting in its own way, and has a summary of the recent 'intelligent design'movement brouhaha. But the intelligent design wing is too sneaky to be trusted, ditto the Darwinists. Perhaps the subject should be exported to a non-Christian country that has never heard of Darwin, then we might get somewhere. Tierra Del Fuego?	2003-04-23
1152137:US	50592435	RQH50G4ZKZXE6	0393047644	510021043	The Future of Freedom: Illiberal Democracy at Home and Abroad	Books	4	4	11	N	N	Great cover--Liberty leading the people	Whenever I see Delacroix' Liberty Leading The People on the jacket of a book, I freeze--must read, more than repressed orality, genuine revolutionary fervor. But then again, I read somewhere most of the hotheads in the picture went to become stock brokers. Hmm, Marx's bourgeois revolutionaries. We should hope at least Dr. Fareek is right up there on the barricades. However, noticing Gress' From Plato to Nato in his bibliography, I suspect a 'fix' on democracy courtesy of the neo-conservative thinktanks. Don't be fooled by such nonsense. Did they fool Dr. Fareed, or is he one of them?<br /> Democracy arose, was revived, because such as Rousseau focussed on equality. That's that. Sometimes it takes, sometimes the form misfires.<br />If the author is referring to the need to find ways to implement democracy, that is one thing. But in the American case he seems to blame the public for the triumph of the special interests who have gutted real democracy. Blaming the victim.<br />Gress' book seems the source of this book's sophistical conservatizing distinction of democracy and liberty, from the attempt in Gress' book to cashier the Greeks and find the birth of freedom in the Romans, Germanics, and the Christian tradition. All this in the critique of the 'Grand Narrative' purloined from the postmoderns. One feels little gratitude for postmodernists finally, as we find the Pakistani dictator Musharaaf endorsed in the nagging against 'too much democracy'. A bit convenient. Noone quite has the nerve to advocate oligarchy by declaring freedom a modernist metarnarrative delusion, the Grand Narrative. But this book seems to come close. I hope that is not unfair.<br /> In any case, this work is challenging to think through the issues, and makes a number of useful points on the flaws of 'democratic institutions', but is threatened by incoherence, in the middle of a series of otherwise useful discussions. It is interesting at least for demonstrating that our terms of political philosophy can indeed go into free fall, and start wandering from their moorings in the hustling fixes of 'interested' parties. We cannot make complacent use of these terms, and need to study their history carefully indeed. There is no magic, as the far left obviously discovered most disastrously, in invoking a term, and the realizations of democracy require creative history. That said, a spade is a spade.<br />The historical emergence of democracy requires a general concept of universal history, and this modern thought has lost, as it huddles near the very few classic realizatons of the form, confounded by its inability to replicate that evolution. Then we can perhaps distinguish the differences of Rome and Greece that confuse the analysis. But to praise Romanism for its liberty in a dismissal of the Greeks,a la Gress, seems to me unhelpful, though nice work by the neo-conservatives with their conceptual minefields designed to confuse the next generation.<br />Perhaps that is Dr. Fareed's real point, and excuses the fearful manipulations of concepts that foretell only a reluctance toward its own theme. Either one trusts the people or one does not, and without democracy it is sheer distortion to speak of liberty.<br />But this issue of 'liberty' in the book is reasonable enough up to a point, if we consider the foundational republicanism required for democracy to emerge. The parallel emergence of republicanism and democracy (contrast, Jefferson, Madison, Tom Paine, then the Jacksonian era)is indeed the potential sore point for those who come later and attempt to follow the natural evolution of history with the unthinking imitations. But in the final analysis, democracy means what it says, and to put off doing things right until some magic moment arrives after the blessed tutelage of reactionaries makes no sense, and reminds one of the ironically similar confusion in Marx's term 'dictatorship of the proletariat': democracy, but not just yet.<br />There is a lot more to this book than this.<br />One thinks of a work such as Miller's Rousseau, Dreamer of Democracy, recording the moment when the term 'democracy' was up in the air, before its crystallizaton in electoral form.<br />Consider the irony of the conservative attacks on Rousseau for latent totalitarianism. The wheel turns, comes full circle.ok than this.<BR>One thinks of a work such as Miller's Rousseau, Dreamer of Democracy, recording the moment when the term 'democracy' was up in the air, before its crystallizaton in electoral form. <BR>Consider the irony of the conservative attacks on Rousseau for latent totalitarianism. The wheel turns, comes full circle.	2003-04-20
1155127:US	50592435	R1GUQSM6B5YA3	0312252439	859125624	Do What Thou Wilt: A Life of Aleister Crowley	Books	5	5	11	N	N	Faix ce que veult	There is a mystery to the end of the nineteenth century in the sudden appearance of figures such as Nietzsche, Gurdjieff, and Crowley, out of the blue, trying to rewrite the rules of various games, and in each case with a vicious sadistic streak. We fail to see the connection, or suspect one, but with Crowley we have a clue, albeit a misleading one, almost like a decoy. And then we see the Hitler phenomenon. With Crowley we see the explicit connection between autonomy pursued and autonomy occulted, as Nietzsche suddenly becomes transparent, thrasing around, he never knew what hit him. Your move, beware of reaching in the cookie jar here. Do you have potential Faustian propensities? If you have gotten this far, I'd be worried. Click on Paton's The Categorical Imperative for the Kantian take on will. Much better, first rate, when Crowley is second rate, though interesting, and pitiable. He would be of no importance were it not for his 'book of the law' and 'new aeon' swindle, which nonetheless expresses, and distorts, an important thematic that needs to be salvaged from the occult altogether, to be seen in its true form.<br />This is a useful biography of Crowley whom the author understandably wishes to defend, at least to the degree of a biography, given the rote excoriations, which are inevitable, and in the end deserved. Crowley's 'magic' is a waste of time, but one meets enough idiots in this field to require some leery investigation. A man of many talents, the colorful self-realization of his 'career' is something you could never imitate so beware of trying. A good poker player folds often, very dull. A bad one reaches into the cookie jar. With Crowley, fold, I would say, just observe.<br />A useful account.	2003-04-17
1158422:US	50592435	R656LYI9FD0TC	0812694228	257533174	Murder in Dealey Plaza:  What We Know Now that We Didn't Know Then	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Historians' Responsibility	This a follow up to Fetzer's Assassination Science, and the case seems to get stronger all the time for a conspiracy in the Kennedy Assassination. Much that was murky or uncertain is suddenly being seen in a new light, now that certain key breakthroughs leave the subject on the other side of a threshold of evidence, namely, the clear tampering of the medical records, the expose of the Zapruder film, and much else.<br />But will anything change the inertia here of public opinion?<br /> Here is a quote from one of the essays in the book.<br />From \\"The Silence of the Historians\\", David Mantik p.373<br />For nearly four decades, historians have chosen to hide from the thorny issues posed by the JFK assassination. Their silence--actually a near abdication--has permitted the media to set the agenda for one of the major events of the twentieth century. When forced to offer an opinion on the matter, historians have chosen, with few exceptions, to recite the Warren Commission version at face value. Given the straight-jacket, they have therefore assumed that Oswald did it. That era of innocence has been dying for some time. jpwever, and by any reasonable measure is now irrevocably moribund.<br />Historians are faced with a troubling new challenge--how to write an accurate and responsible history of 22 November 1963, one that takes into account a great deal of new evidence....The historians' fear of ridicule has surely been the dominant motive for their silence....Regarding this fear of ridicule, Thomas Spencer Jerome has cptured the problem exceptionally well:<br />[The historian] finds further more that there are various sorts of obligations laid upon him to refrain from truth-telling under divers penalties. He is a member of a state, a church, a party, a class, a clique, a family and in all these relations he is virtually obliged to see things as they are not, and to speak that which is false, under penalties varying from execution down to mere inaritculate upopularity, most difficult to be borne. (\\"The Case of the Eyewitnesses\\" in Robin Winks, editor, The Historian as Detective, 1968, p190)ficult to be borne. (\\"The Case of the Eyewitnesses\\" in Robin Winks, editor, The Historian as Detective, 1968, p190)	2003-04-15
1158888:US	50592435	R25B0IVB5PDAHW	0312156480	244559280	The Secret War Against the Jews: How Western Espionage Betrayed The Jewish People	Books	5	50	63	N	N	It's the Oil, Stupid	This is a withering expose, almost unintended and beyond its basic purpose of documenting the 'secret war against the Jews', of the most unintelligent aspect of government a la Machiavel, the Intelligence factor lurking in the shadows. The problem, of course, is that the facts of unnamed 'sources' from the 'old spies' are not fully trustworthy and the whole book is no doubt plausibly deniable. The material requires cautious reading therefore because of the danger of still further disinformation. What a portrait starting with Jack Philby, Ibn Saud, and the Oil Companies, of sordid politicians and their obscure affairs, starring notably the infamous Allen Dulles! The book outstrips its theme in many ways, and while I am all ears to any case for the behind-the-scenes espionage against the Jews (the evidence is certainly convincing), the implications move beyond this question to how we are to take our politics at all, given this degree of dishonesty by all parties, up to and including Bush 41, the object it appears of Syrian blackmail. If one cannot take all the claims as established, one can certainly take the warning to beware of politicians once and for all as beyond redemption.	2003-04-14
1168471:US	50592435	R326FYYA3VUQA6	1883536162	687985046	The Teachers of Gurdjieff	Books	4	3	9	N	N	Manufacturing credentials	Although it is hardly surprising or even noteworthy that a figure such as Gurdjieff should have some 'sufi' influences in his background, those offered here in evidence constitute a fabrication, if not a plain 'pack of lies'. This apparently pseudonymous work, said to have been written by Idries Shah, is therefore without merit as an indication of anything to do with Gurdjieff's all too obviously shady background, which included some illegal activity. A telling sign in any false or deceiving teacher is the reluctance to show his true biography. And that left the field for this [sham]. Times change. At one point the sufi background of Gurdjieff seemed a point to advertise. A later generation knows better, and would take it as a warning about sufistic tactics. The 'sufis' might soon change their story and disown him, and in general the legacy of disinformation connected with sufism has accumulated to the point where only a fool would trust this path. In any case, there is an irony here, Gurdjieff as expose of the sufi mafia. So, this is the way these folks do business. What else are they up to? Trogoautoegocratic sacrifices?<br />Watch out! Take it from the veterans. Find another path.	2003-04-06
1183953:US	50592435	R1DM0EXAEI9EQD	0618060278	695032446	Rational Mysticism: Dispatches from the Border Between Science and Spirituality	Books	3	2	12	N	N	Foghorns in the mist	In over a century all the world's scientists taken together in toto are apparently unable to read a plain Buddhist sutra. The artificially created mystery exists because science has to play dumb, and because it must, in the age of Big Science, play dumb to control psyches and to control psyches they must be prevented from the chance of Enlightenment, thence to perish unfulfilled. That's the unfunny part.<br />I found this a science funny account of science playing dumb in a trek through the New Age woods, in search of the solution to the riddle of mysticism. The question of the mystical tends to revolve around a misnomer, 'what is that, mysticism?'. One could argue there is actually no state that is not mystical, so the point must be all of them, thence basic consciousness.<br />Further, mysticism tends to be the substitute spirituality that arose in the contact of the yogas with monotheism, dispense with it. It will only confuse.<br /> Horgan's safari begins with Huston Smith who, like the energizer battery, is still going since the seventies, always inspiring. Most scientific study of mysticism seems to wish to graft scientism onto Buddhism, and we are treated to the 'brainwaves of meditators' circuit and much else in an always interesting tale. But one must express a hope that these scientists of spirit are not as dumb as they look, else we will really be at the end of science as far as mysticism is concerned. Still this gesture is of great importance and Horgan seems well positioned to this vein, although the results, one should think, are lowball to hiball.<br />Neurotheology no doubt holds great promise, and I find the possibility fascinating, but the prospect of mechanized mystical states as hitech brain musak seems to be a contradiction in terms. Mechanical states of mind even mystical are in fact the main thing on the radar, one must merely disperse the fog with attention.<br />Still, the idea is compelling, if only there were a sense, that Wallace had but Darwin did not, of the need for a theory of evolution that can do justice to the 'emergent sofware' of the brain, software first, its hardware implications next.<br />Thus one feels disconcerted at the acount of Blackmore determined to rewrite a Darwinian Buddhism. Buddhists were not Darwinists, and the combination will be the end of it. Buddhists seem to speak of 'anatta', but (as Wilber points out, quoted by Horgan)that is a small hope for those who wish to become converts to a reductionist Buddhism.<br />In all one's searches for the mystical there is a rational vein of this that is not mystical at all quite close at home in the testimony of western philosophy! For without trying Kant, Hegel, Schopenhauer et al. unwittingly travel just past the whole terrain. This wasn't mysticism at all,but the exploration of the history, even evolution, of Reason, and if the results are too arcane as philosophy to be practical they nonetheless foretell the basic problem that defeats most here, issues of knowability, representaion, and the noumenal. Can we as Hegel claim penetrate the fog with an absolute knowledge? Better beware! Don't forget Schopenhauer then, who, but for his distracting pessimism, might also help those who navigate the semantic desert between the self and no-self dilemmas and belief systems. The point is that the 'software' manual of human consciousness will almost always be garbled on the issue of 'will'.Is the self known at all?<br />There's one key in plain sight then to the many sophistical texts that tend to mislead us because (as their proponents warn, sometimes)words won't do.<br />Man's problem is that he doesn't have a software manual for his basic equipment, keeps getting stuck on the junk, and doesn't know how to release his potential, because he doesn't know how he works, so to speak, a sort of brainware linux newbie with no FAQ. The issue is not mysticism, but simple self-understanding, as consciousness, self-consciousness, basic attention, the'will' or lack of it, the 'self-noself', and so on. You have to construct that software manual, and that is not easy. Horgan is right to wish to take this in some rational manner, but what does that mean?<br /> Sliding off into mystic states isn't really the point. But endless skeptical doubt about irrelevant occult questions seems to haunt the gateway. Who cares? Bypass these stupid issues with plain vanilla focus on ordinary consciousness.<br />The book finally has an interesting take on the psychedelic world, although one thought that long gone by now, and the experiment with ayahuasca generates a sense of flashback to the lost world of the shaman, and his place in man's early evolution. Nonetheless, the chemical experience is only a gateway, and the road from there unclear. The ancient tradition of gurus was supposed to have helped here, but apparently didn't, and after the hopeless traffic of such in the past generation one must respect Horgan's seeming decision to travel alone. Then at least find the 'standard not so bad' software manuals, which describe what is known? Working alone is always possible, but like learning calculus alone that requires some doing.<br />The question of mysticism and reason saves the title from its contradiction, but it is worth considering the issue in the original Enlightenment terms, via Kant, for example. Nature is sly, and the 'way' is embedded deeply in the modern, who needs oriental middle men? It's a funny joke, actually. Let's hope the joke isn't on the scientist.lack of it, the 'self-noself', and so on. You have to construct that software manual, and that is not easy. Horgan is right to wish to take this in some rational manner, but what does that mean?<BR> Sliding off into mystic states isn't really the point. But endless skeptical doubt about irrelevant occult questions seems to haunt the gateway. Who cares? Bypass these stupid issues with plain vanilla focus on ordinary consciousness. <BR>The book finally has an interesting take on the psychedelic world, although one thought that long gone by now, and the experiment with ayahuasca generates a sense of flashback to the lost world of the shaman, and his place in man's early evolution. Nonetheless, the chemical experience is only a gateway, and the road from there unclear. The ancient tradition of gurus was supposed to have helped here, but apparently didn't, and after the hopeless traffic of such in the past generation one must respect Horgan's seeming decision to travel alone. Then at least find the 'standard not so bad' software manuals, which describe what is known? Working alone is always possible, but like learning calculus alone that requires some doing. <BR>The question of mysticism and reason saves the title from its contradiction, but it is worth considering the issue in the original Enlightenment terms, via Kant, for example. Nature is sly, and the 'way' is embedded deeply in the modern, who needs oriental middle men? It's a funny joke, actually. Let's hope the joke isn't on the scientist.	2003-03-23
1184294:US	50592435	R108BCQGHKZPE2	0394716728	204557370	The Fourth Way: An Arrangement by Subject of Verbatim Extracts from the Records of Ouspensky's Meetings in London and New York, 1921-46	Books	3	55	93	N	N	Bootleg baraka	This is one of the dumbest books on spirituality ever written, though it might have been one of the best, if Gurdjieff had been an honest broker of the matters concocted as esoteric teachings. But like old chess games, this nonsense has confused so many people you almost have to study it to be wary of it. And it has wrecked the understanding of too many. In fairness, the responsibility lies with this Gurdjieff who seems to have made this up from whole cloth, for reasons of his own. Ouspensky broke with Gurdjieff because he discovered he was dishonest, but ended up a frontman for this 'enterprise'. He was not aware of the later 'Beelzebub' game. What a way to treat an author. A really tremendous injustice. Keep in mind then the author of this book was fooled, and a fool. Gurdjieff was a wolf indeed. The harm done to endless numbers who become snared in this baited trap of false conceptions is considerable and this operator seems indifferent to this fact. It has gone on for almost a century and operates like a gresham's law.<br />Ouspensky faithfully reports the material he was given, which shows signs here of becoming a mechanical rendition. But this fantastic scheme of the law of three and seven, cosmic hydrogens, and the rest, is surely complete nonsense of no use to anyone. Did Gurdjieff even care? The real problem is Gurdjieff then, and the fabrication of a system by an occultist ambitious it seems to corral a revolving door of those scared into thinking they have missed the main chance, an esoteric school. These people are sharks in the worst shadows of the sufi world.The division into exoteric and esoteric is based on deception, and could never be spiritual.<br />This system is nonsense, and one can only throw up one's hands at the most obvious tactic of using mumbojumbo to create followers.<br />In all fairness, the idea of a 'fourth way' can easily be derived from general principles and corresponds to the factor of 'will'. The last answer in the world is to surrender this 'will' to the wolf. Don't do it. You don't suspect what this G is up to.<br />The result here of the 'fourth way' idea is a sterile series of psychological concepts that seem intriguing but lead nowhere and are belied by the standard and true simplicites of meditation. Watch out for these tactics, the motive of such should be obvious upon reflection, but never seems to strike those who fall under the spell of this sufism. The technique of self-remembering is very ancient. To mint this in a copyrighted version such as this simply spoils an idea.<br />Its codification here in such a species of poppycock about cosmic hydrogens and a hierarchy in a spiritual food chain is grotesque, and trying to figure one's cosmic hydrogens in order to be conscious is breathtakingly stupid and leaves most so confused they can never meditate again until they simply puke it our and pass on.<br />The fourth way schools described by Ouspensky never existed, as you can tell from the place suggested in history. Gurdjieff seems deep, but his confusion about history was great, and the account of great achievements in history which he ascribes to some esoteric process such as a fourth way school is baloney.<br />Gurdjieff seems to have succeeded in his tactics, use moonshine to trojan horse a mini-tradition of confused instant converts. That, if you see the sly man, is a valuable asset. Don't be a victim. Remember, Gurdjieff never speaks of enlightenment. Only of the work. You never get lucky with this man. Don't be a slave. Everything essential you need is in the public domain. Don't get suckered in.ender this 'will' to the wolf. Don't do it. You don't suspect what this G is up to. <BR>The result here of the 'fourth way' idea is a sterile series of psychological concepts that seem intriguing but lead nowhere and are belied by the standard and true simplicites of meditation. Watch out for these tactics, the motive of such should be obvious upon reflection, but never seems to strike those who fall under the spell of this sufism. The technique of self-remembering is very ancient. To mint this in a copyrighted version such as this simply spoils an idea. <BR>Its codification here in such a species of poppycock about cosmic hydrogens and a hierarchy in a spiritual food chain is grotesque, and trying to figure one's cosmic hydrogens in order to be conscious is breathtakingly stupid and leaves most so confused they can never meditate again until they simply puke it our and pass on. <BR>The fourth way schools described by Ouspensky never existed, as you can tell from the place suggested in history. Gurdjieff seems deep, but his confusion about history was great, and the account of great achievements in history which he ascribes to some esoteric process such as a fourth way school is baloney. <BR>Gurdjieff seems to have succeeded in his tactics, use moonshine to trojan horse a mini-tradition of confused instant converts. That, if you see the sly man, is a valuable asset. Don't be a victim. Remember, Gurdjieff never speaks of enlightenment. Only of the work. You never get lucky with this man. Don't be a slave. Everything essential you need is in the public domain. Don't get suckered in.	2003-03-23
1186155:US	50592435	R1IERH1SGKARL7	0192821474	698097005	The Anthropic Cosmological Principle (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A physics of observers	This is _the_ classic on the Anthropic Principle, and is a massive elucidation on the diverse aspects of the subject plus a compendium of additional info of encyclopedic proportions. The Anthropic Principle is and remains controversial with a complex literature subsequent to this book, but whatever the current status of the issues this book remains solidly relevant. The footnotes alone are worth the price of the book, and are a useful source of study leads and information on everything from information theory to the teleomechanists of the nineteenth century. One of the side issues explored, for example, is the place of teleological principles in the history of science, and their careful consideration by many in the great generation of physicists in the wake of Newton. The ending of the book deals with the spectacular vistas of theories of the future of the universe and contains a nice treatment of Penrose's space-time diagram with its 'achieved infinity' of the Omega Point.	2003-03-21
1190232:US	50592435	R36WCYFNCXQ4IB	0300076401	815088499	Nietzsche and Wagner: A Lesson in Subjugation	Books	5	2	12	N	N	Esthetic monstrosities	The author of _Zarathustra's secret_ takes us through the period encounter between Nietzsche and Wagner in a quite graphic tale of one of the first of the modern celebrity farces, that of Wagnerian ego and its hangers on. Although the account is well done, I should wonder if a clever cutpurse like Nietzsche was ever really subjugated and whether he didn't, despite an series of emotional shocks, achieve the net equivalent of going undercover as a Wagner disciple, to his profit or loss in unclear. For all the background music of the philosophic, more than musical, leitmotiv (Schopenhauer gave it away with fake hint, the 'will') this account of artistic overdrive twice over is a remarkable tale of psychological helplessness, in Wagner and Nietzsche. Anyway, worth reading.	2003-03-17
1190360:US	50592435	R3SGTXO58TUKEA	0271017945	553466759	Dark Riddle: Hegel, Nietzsche, and the Jews	Books	5	3	11	N	N	Monotheism, Enlightenment, Autonomy	After a series of works on the Enlightenment and the Jews, this work by Y. Yovel, author of a work on Kant's philosophy of history, and on Spinoza, is to be welcomed for a more sophisticated, if debatable, view of these matters, which, however, seem to elude simple explication. Due to the legacy of the Holocaust, all parties seem to have jitters on these issues, and more than arguably seek the reasons for that monumental tragedy in the wrong place.<br />Covering a wide range of topics, and fascinating at each point, this book is highly readable, but I nonetheless felt the 'dark riddle' yield to another series of problems. The account of Hegel's views on the Jews (indeed of Kant's), then those of Nietzsche, gives a misleading impression, does it not, for Nietzsche's advice to the Jews (behind some solid appreciation) would seem the worst they ever got, while the tradition of autonomy emerging in a figure such as Kant would better fulfill the hope of Spinoza for a real Judaic modernism.<br />Throughout, the ambiguity of the term 'antisemitism' tends to complicate discussion, and some might be left to conclude that atheism, Biblical Criticism, secular culture, were all antisemitic. Yovel leads us past these dangers by and large with a consideration overdue, but still not quite right, perhaps, of these subjects.<br />The stolid Hegel's views here would seem less than surprising, the more so as he was able to revise his thinking. In any case, there is an irony here, for the rise of the modern and the era of the Prophets, have a deep resemblance to each other, and to the era of the Greek and Indian Enlightenment. We need to look at them all without prejudice, and somehow rescue the modern instance from the plight to which it is now being unfairly subjected. Engaging work, with some fascinating moments.	2003-03-17
1192020:US	50592435	R233ELUX4T8533	0813122414	434689477	When Slavery Was Called Freedom: Evangelicalism, Proslavery, and the Causes of the Civil War (Religion in the South)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Doublethink	This interesting snapshot of pre-bellum Southern evangelicalism struck me as less controversial than advertised and, in any case, a telling portrait of the 'actuals' of religion in American history. The parallel appearance of abolitionism and pro-slavery evangelical apologia is a difficult dialectic to reconcile, and the historical image refresh rate is essential for an archaeologist of ideology. One need not undergo a paradigm shift to find this a useful angle on a multidimensional subject, and a shadowy one at that.	2003-03-16
1193270:US	50592435	R2ZCZO7VB9WP6K	0684827913	387700070	The Idea of Decline in Western History	Books	5	23	29	N	N	Prophets of doom	The viewpoint of Spengler on the decline of the West is an insidious thesis whose continued popularity and beguiling appeal endures notwithstanding the severe flaws that emerge on closer examination. The same could be said for Toynbee's elaboration of the idea of the West's inevitable decline. Herman here joins the ranks of the critics and, despite a prickly bias in his viewpoint, makes a good case for the fallacy of the prophets of doom. And this via the history, e.g. such works as Nordau's Degeneration, of the constellation of ideas behind these first of the 'postmoderns'. In some ways the view of the classical liberal is an appropriate response to the cockeyed conservatism of Spengler, and here we have the correct suggestion the rise of the modern is a creative era in world history, and not the tail end of some Faustian civilization beginning in the year 1000 AD.<br />Still, the issue of decline won't go away, if only because nothing lasts forever. But the latter is not an historical thesis or theory, and it is false to say that decline is inevitable, let alone that some invigorating barbarism will renew our esthetics. So far from being an aberration the Enlightenment brought into being a new age of history, and to foresee decline, and this unconsciously willed as some perverse progress, bespeaks only the idiotic epigone of Nietzche. Herman makes this basic point in a fashion that might not sit well with the mystique of the Spenglerian horde. As for Toynbee, his mechanics of history simply cannot deal with the facts of the rise of the West or its significance in any intelligent way, as if the author stepped from some medieval monastery to be appalled at the end times in the birth of freedom. Let's hope we don't go down fighting against this tide of willed self-destruction which seems attractive to the enemies of the Enlightenment. A bit 'thinktankish', but a useful work.	2003-03-15
1200617:US	50592435	R2CU0J4MJDUNMV	0745629547	43544512	Radical Evil: A Philosophical Interrogation	Books	5	9	20	N	N	The history of the term 'radical evil'	Much discussion of the Holocaust, perhaps influenced in part by Hannah Arendt, invokes the phrase 'radical evil'. But the term springing from Kant, in his Religion Within the Limits of Reason Alone, speaks what seems a different almost technical language of the will, in the context of the critique of practical reason. There the surface complexity of the lore of Kant's distinction of Wille and Wilkur seem to obscure the analyis, although Kant, too out of fashion, and bespeaks the question with underhanded profundity. One needs perhaps to get the knack of noting, if not understanding, the implications of these abstractions blind before the noumenal dragon's lair--of what do we speak, if of the 'will'??! As Arendt seems to suggest, Kant was not quite letting on.<br /> This work is an invaluable history and compendium to any discussion of 'radical evil', and of the passage of the them via Kant through Hegel and Schelling to Nietzsche and Freud, concluding with the post-Holocaust thinkers Levinas, Johas, Arendt. This history should be better known in an age when the discussion is either positivistic discussion of the next robot advance in value free science or some mythical strain from the spiritual Hollywoods of too long ago. After Kant, 'at war with himself'(the point is debatable),the author critiques Hegel's great system with the sure fate of this question in a tighly conceived teleology, and then the surprisingly refreshing views of the less well known Schelling. It is hard to take the analysis of the inscrutable beyond these seminal sources (in my view,I find Nietzsche less profound that his reputation would suggest), but the remaining discussions are compelling none the less as the question explodes from its airy quality in the context of the twentieth century. Very fine study, although one might have thought Marx/anti-Marx a pole of this history. The question of 'radical evil' in relation to Hannah Arendt is also considered in the author's Hannah Arendt and the Jewish question.wish question.	2003-03-09
1206059:US	50592435	R3BIF9B7GDFMM5	0670031860	846648040	Freedom Evolves	Books	3	3	13	N	N	Robots of the world unite...	In an age of science worship, philosophy is supposed to play the 'underlaborer' and keep a reverent tone. It would seem we live at a time when the needs of a technocratic age require a source myth of a mechanical man (easier to control), stripped of 'soul'(too metaphysical), and a cover story about his freedom (have your cake and eat it too). A dangerous idea, as a theory of evolution, is needed,for an ethics of competition, justified by science (better for the economy, full of 'free' agents). Darwinism foots the bill, but it is short the cover story on freedom. Introit Mr. Dennett?<br />Is Mr. Dennett guilty of all this in filling the gap? What a slander, no? Actually, I found this book both interesting and useful even if the human author guilty as charged. But it all seems like the effort to produce that cover story, compatibilist Darth Vader in action. Let's face it. Darwinian positivism is allergic to ideas of freedom.<br />In fact the dialectic of freedom to use a Kantian, if not an Hegelian, term, goes on and on and in the process kicks up dust, but never resolves the issue of free will, for reasons the 'critique of reason' made clear long ago, and in response to the Laplacean Newton.<br />At least this attempt was useful and worth reading, but I think most readers, deflected by Darwinian assumptions, might check out a full bodied philosophy of freedom, Kant style. Look what you have given up, in the Darwin milieu. This full bodied theory of freedom brings us at best into a consideration neither spiritual nor material, transcendentally ideal,of the _two sides_ of the debate Dennett compellingly stages, which is an irresolvable antinomy.<br />That perhaps is the danger of compatibilist kludging, we fail to see that understanding comes from exploiting the irresolvability of the contradiction, for the idea of freedom is an 'Idea of reason'.<br />In any case, the title here is 'freedom evolves' and, since I am no Darwinian, I should point out that the evolution of freedom via natural selection is such an incoherent idea that we must demand further field evidence, have we ever observed this? For otherwise we have merely juggled ideas to make them Darwin compatible. The evolution of freedom explained as an adapationist scenario is a very ad hoc notion and beggars the rich philosophic legacy of this idea.om via natural selection is such an incoherent idea that we must demand further field evidence, have we ever observed this? For otherwise we have merely juggled ideas to make them Darwin compatible. The evolution of freedom explained as an adapationist scenario is a very ad hoc notion and beggars the rich philosophic legacy of this idea.	2003-03-05
1215045:US	50592435	R3QAYZNCH31MHQ	0877228671	561762411	Irrationalism: Lukacs and the Marxist View of Reason	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Red Alert	This work is an illuminating exposition of the sources and legacy of G. Lukacs whose History and Class Consciousness appeared like a kind of red alert on the reds at the time of the Bolshevik revolution. As Marxism began to crystallize as an incoherent dogma called 'dialectical materialism' one the few great works of Marxist philosophy appeared, and then sank from view, living an underground existence and giving birth to so-called Western Marxism.<br />One need not be a Marxist to profit from seeing a truly slick mind at work, and from Rockmore's history of the ideas coursing through Lukacs brain as he produced this almost enigmatic work that almost cunningly blends Neo-Kantianism, Hegelianism, and a non-Engelsian historical materialism. The tactics are so brilliant, standard debunkers of Marx have seldom bothered to critique the argument, which is no doubt beset with its own problems. What I found interesting was the connection with the Neo-Kantians (and the influence of figures such as Lask and Rikert on Lukacs, this being invisible behind his reputation for &quot;Hegelian Marxism&quot;. If nothing else it is a reminder the legacy of German philosophy is so tricky that to build a revolution on it is a recipe for disaster, nobody will know what they are talking about.	2003-02-25
1216723:US	50592435	R23OP792HFZLC1	0520226100	466194479	The Myth of the Noble Savage	Books	5	29	35	N	N	Myth of the Myth of the Noble Savage	This engaging history of the Noble Savage theme, purportedly the creation of Rousseau, traces the source, history, and misuse of the myth of this curious being, absolving Rousseau in large measure of the dastardly deed of fiction. At a time when this myth is being recycled by sociobiologists, a.k.a. 'evolutionary psychologists' (cf. Pinker's The Blank Slate) for reasons some have tsktsked as ideological, this book hits the spot for comprehensive debriefing of the entire lore, starting with the real inventor here, Lescarbot in his Histoire de la Nouvelle France, written in 1609: because all Mi'kmaq men practiced hunting, enjoying a right that was restricted by law to the nobility in Europe, Lescarbot drew the comparative conclusion that 'the Savages are truely Noble'. There you have it. The author notes, &quot;...the title refers to a living, contemporary myth that most of us accept as fact, and because the myth itslef deceives us by claiming to critique and offer an expose of another 'myth', the existence of Savages who were really Noble. The purported critique typically examines ethnographic or theoretical writings on 'savage' peoples to problematise any potential claims to their 'nobility'. The supposed expose asserts that the 'myth' of savage nobility was created in the nineteenth century by Jean-Jacques Rousseau...the real myth, in other words, is what we have been deceived into thinking is the reality behind the myth...&quot;<BR>Excellent and detailed study, very useful from many aspects, with many vignettes of early racist anthropologists, and much else. <BR>Jean-Jacques lives...	2003-02-24
1220233:US	50592435	R2C2CQ9EWP5J1V	0813336937	110627306	The Fateful Hoaxing Of Margaret Mead: A Historical Analysis Of Her Samoan Research	Books	5	19	23	N	N	Innings in the nature/nurture debate	Although this book smacks of comeuppance in the nature/nurture wars,with Freeman somewhat preditorily showing an excessive ... factor with his prey, it is interesting reading nonetheless, as it shows indirectly the whole dilemma of fieldwork, with its question mark, how observe another culture at all. The account of the genesis of Coming of Age in Samoa is convincing, although the issue of the hoaxing of Mead as to the actual facts of this coming of age remains slightly ambiguous. But the overall account suggests that the entire project was a bit thin in substance, of excessively short duration, and a prime example of prior assumptions influencing results. It is also a story of how our theories end up influencing our present, which is a challenge to our claims on science. The influence of this book on general culture is therefore a considerable irony. I think Freeman is on guard, hence his account stands up fairly well, but I would also check the challengers here, to this, and to the previous work on this subject by the author. In fact, what is the basis for any claim to observe another culture? Not via tourist photography, in any case.	2003-02-21
1220556:US	50592435	RAKRCIS6IHX3D	0195047788	692498583	Down and Out, on the Road: The Homeless in American History	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Down and out from Tucson to Wenatchee	Is the open society no more than a brief era of open spaces? West of the Mississipi a man without a society can and always has survived handily in the interstices of the system,freely availing himself of the services of major railroads, there to wander the open spaces of a civil arrangement in which he was never included. One of the strange subworlds of the Great American Economy has been the realm of that curious gremlin of the reserve army of the unemployed, the hobo and rider of the rails. If you pass by a freight yard, and wait long enough, you will see the phenomenon, briefly, as departure and arrival is not announced, and the passengers will appear from out of the bushes. Much of this is tacitly condoned due to the need for cheap labor in the agricultural circuit, from Arizona to Washington, and the lines are almost the official transportation for the labor force at some times of the year.<br />This work is a charming, and well documented, account of the whole history, not only of the hobo, but of the homeless in American history, and also gives an interesting chronicle of the skidrow world as it flourished and then passed away after the second world war.  If you are ever unemployed, don't panic. Get west of the Mississipi, find a railroad yard,and wait. People will appear who can explain the ropes. May or may not be an open society. But there are still a lot of open spaces.	2003-02-21
1221364:US	50592435	R1UBSGA55IPZOB	0300092784	79250507	Zarathustra's Secret	Books	5	6	18	N	N	Borderlands of nightmare	Charged with some degree of speculation, this work is nonetheless a significant perspective on Nietzsche that any student of the subject ought to consider. Isn't the author's point, despite a near animus toward his subject, rather clear from the data examined? We need not finalize opinion to be grateful for an examination of a man who lived the discovery of the unconscious, without jargon or theories. You can be genuinely confused by Nietzsche, and the strange riddle of his philosophy deserves a bit of demystification. This was a dangerous subject that routinely confuses all discussion of social equality, 'good and evil', to say nothing of the complex history of Zarathustra, from a starting point that misconceived the nature of Greek tragedy.<br />With Nietzsche style triumphs over the stark danger of intoxicated encounter with the fringe-border world of the noumenal,and the fragments of the explosion are strewn across a modern philosophical wasteland. I think the author unsufficiently consider this point, the wreckage of a true genius on the shoals of psychological confusions and ambiguity. It takes more than genius to resolve the philosophical heritage Nietzsche encounters, and the result shows the burnout of a facile Schopenhaurian rockstar type, which almost makes the man more interesting. In any case, this was a compelling, somewhat chilling account, that made Nietzsche interesting in a new way. One need not agree with Freud's theories, which their own such legacy, to suddenly see why his efforts to 'lance the wound' of the Victorian psyche made such sense for its time. Fascinating work, if a bit cold for Nietzsche fan clubs.	2003-02-20
1231526:US	50592435	R1EQOMO9YIZ002	0226978559	785457814	The Genesis of Kant's Critique of Judgment	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Dialectic of teleological judgement	This fine work reviews one of the most important periods of philosophic history. The progression of Kant's three critiques is a mystery unto itself, and one with unknown or forgotten but exceedingly important consequences for nineteenth century ideology, politics and historicism. This was the starting point for many with respect to the Kantian revolution, for better or for worse.<br /> In so far as this conclusion to Kant's critical system became the truncated starting point, as it were, for an entirely different consideration of Kantian questions, this turning point would seem mysterious. If we consider the collision and explosion of the left with its teleogical core reflecting the Hegelian treatment of these questions, and if we consider the horrific endgame here, then the issue of the 'dialectic of teleological judgement' would indeed appear to be the name of the game indeed, and the quite horrific plot of the 'metanarrative'.<br />Zammito's book clocks this 'dialectical drama' in slow motion, and is a fascinating history of the palimpsest effect in the composition of Kant's critique, illuminating its relation to the culture of the time, from eighteenth century biology (which wasn't as confused as we might think) to the rivalry with Herder.  Richly detailed and fascinating study. I would only dissent slightly with the 'giddy up' mood that seems to effect even the author at the end of the book as he describes the slipping away from Kantian rigor in the madrush to a sort of grand Hegelian destination. Back to the drawing board.<br />Moral: beware of ideologies that do have teleological implications, and especially of those, like Darwinism, that don't. Note how Kant implicitly foresaw the whole game and its omens.	2003-02-12
1234417:US	50592435	R1G2ZXSTS093I9	0262134195	629561985	Origination of Organismal Form: Beyond the Gene in Developmental and Evolutionary Biology (Vienna Series in Theoretical Biology)	Books	5	30	34	N	N	In Search of a Theory of Evolution	The public Darwin debate doesn't really match the progress of biological research. And experts in the field seem reticent to point to the limits of the standard theories. Here we are told plainly,  Darwinism has no theory of the generative. And the breakthroughs in developmental genetics fail to explicate the sources of organismic form. The text acknowledges that concern with the gene has overshadowed all other aspects of the discussion.<br /> This highly interesting, not too technical, work explores the work being done on evolutionary innovation. A theory of evolution should explicate both innovation and diversification.But natural selection can only explain how what already exists is maintained or transformed in the process of ecological survival. The standard explanations of variation and natural selection do not really explain this '<br />source of form' aspect of evolution, and we are presented with ambiguous statements about an evolutionary toolkit, in the developmental version, whose origins could not spring from the processes described in the Neo-Darwinian Synthesis. It seems an advance that a technical work by experts in the field would point this out. This is a very useful glimpse of the real work needed in biology, and should prove a useful refuge from the confusing public discourse on evolution that is generally less than helpful.	2003-02-09
1235711:US	50592435	R12SLZK8QIK0FG	0471252522	718856168	The Dawn of Human Culture	Books	5	7	9	N	N	The Big Bang of Human Consciousness	This book, along with The Human Career by the same author, is one of the clearest and most detailed accounts of the evolution of man, and points directly to the insufficiently appreciated suddenness of the human transition to behaviorally modern man (as opposed to anatomically modern man). While I don't find it convincing to think this the result of some sudden mutation, the presentation of the facts is very balanced, and the result suggests something more than the usual Darwinian account, which seems implausible when confronted with the clear picture of sudden origins. The result seems more like punctuated equilibrium than the standard paradigm. An important book.<br />John Landon<br />author of<br />World History And The Eonic Effect (Amazon)<br />(with a discussion of the issues raised by Klein)	2003-02-08
1236415:US	50592435	R1HOIDSAC0V4C8	0521795389	488902368	Esau's Tears: Modern Anti-Semitism and the Rise of the Jews	Books	5	12	17	N	N	Esau and Jacob	This is an extremely informative, indeed illuminating, agree or not, perspective on the history, and modern version, of antisemitism that would go well with a series of other accounts and points of view. This area tends to be written about by writers in a state of shock over the Holocaust, sometimes the analysis is a series of abstractions, too frequently incorrect generalizations. The problem is never understood, a genuine curse on two religions, and finally a whole civilization, western history's catastrophe. Here the author takes us from the early Jews in Alexandria in Ptolematic times, to the often fact-poor tale of the nineteenth century antisemitic complexities. Some might not appreciate this point of view, but I think it is one that is a dose of realism.	2003-02-08
1242984:US	50592435	R1SEAX38WGWQMO	0872200272	571243433	Kantian Ethics and Socialism	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Kingdom of ends	Interesting work, back in print. The political perspective of Kantianism tends to reflect the legacy of classical liberalism(e.g. the Kantian Hayek), revolutionary for its time, but the inherent dialectic of the Kantian ethics proceeds to its universality as a social conundrum, which produced a most significant commentary on the socialist idea in the period of the 'back to Kant' movement at the end of the nineteenth century. This fascinating work reviews the logic and tells the history of this period and initiative, and its outcome in the era of Social Democracy leading up to the period of the Weimar collapse. These Kantians, e.g. Cohen, Vorlander, and the Marburg school,are of great historical interest still, as we forget that many of the critiques of the original Marxism now brandished by conservatives found their source in these Kantians. If only the history had been different! This corner of history was eliminated in the later stages of madness (the twenties, Eisner was assinated by early Nazis). The book is filled with all sorts of curious discussions, e.g. a critique of Hegelian teleology, Rawlsian implications, etc. It should be of interest as it will keep both left and right honest, on their, your, toes.<br />See also Willey's Back to Kant	2003-02-03
1243849:US	50592435	R1JORFA7F2U5YC	188392927X	189846269	In Defense of the Guru Principle	Books	4	12	22	N	N	Legacies of guruism	I do not know anything about A. Cohen and, although I do not approve of the guru principle, will leave judgement in neutral, since I read the book, and do in fact find a book with this title provocative and interesting. Instead of the usual cavil of the alarmist deprogrammer circuit, I would simply point to the recent of history of gurus, and the remarkable wreckage, from Gurdjieff, to Rajneesh, Muktananda, Da Free John, and more. A unique series of failures. What's going on? Something is wrong. The Upanishads clearly warn of what can go wrong. Don't be on the wrong end of that.<br />I notice in all defenses of the principles of yoga, gurus and the New Age India phenomenon (which I don't reject out of hand)nothing is said about the history. Not surprising, but disingenuous. That history should be there. It is a truly frightening history for anyone about to surrender their will to a stranger. To excise that history is prima facie evidence the guru phenomenon is for the sake of the guru, not the disciple.<br />A 'guru' in this vein tends to be in the line of post-Buddhist neo_Brahmanistical line, after the savagery of internecine 'guru wars', the extermination of Buddhists, the restoration of Vedic and caste, etc... A work such as Prem Nath Bazaz _The Role of the Bhagavad Gita in Indian History_ gives one type of chilling account of the forever suppressed history, which includes the confusions built even into the Gita.<br />So what is what here?<br />Study the history. And keep in mind that the West was the last place on this planet, as of 1500, that had no guru domination principle. Sooner or later they will find you. Be prepared. Be informed, and not by those promoting these subjects. Study the history. Know the dangers, which in some cases are considerable. Whatever the guru principle is, it has no sancrosanct character whatever and threatens to complicate the realization of one's autonomy.<br />To try revive the tradition of the 'godmen' of this reactionary tradition in the modern age is the useless confusion. It is not sufficient to claim ignorance of this history.<br />Perhaps Mr. Cohen would care to comment on the 'spiritual alavery' theme of Mr. Lee Lozowick,or the dangerous tactics of Mr. E.J. Gold before he recommends gurus for us.in the modern age is the useless confusion. It is not sufficient to claim ignorance of this history.<BR>Perhaps Mr. Cohen would care to comment on the 'spiritual alavery' theme of Mr. Lee Lozowick,or the dangerous tactics of Mr. E.J. Gold before he recommends gurus for us.	2003-02-02
1248687:US	50592435	RUI2UPEPAZGSV	1879514907	633192727	Voices in the Dark: Esoteric, Occult & Secular Voices in Nazi-Occupied Paris, 1940-44	Books	3	2	18	N	N	Whispers in the gloom	It is useful to compare the fate of Heidegger, the philosopher of Being, with that of the shadowy Gurdjieff, with his mysticism of Being, during the era of Nazism and the Holocaust. As much as one might detest the reactionary nature of his thinking, and the abuse of the mystic tradition for occult purposes, every man is innocent until proven guilty, notwithstanding the incontestable rumours, indeed outright Gurdjieff fascists one meets. As this work shows (though hardly in any conclusive fashion) these years are probably accounted for.<br />In fact his critics have perhaps missed the point in their undeground whispers, which is that a man like Gurdjieff was much too smart to make the mistakes of Heidegger or get caught at anything. The point can be seen in a Spengler, whose own reactionary works such as Prussianism and Socialism certainly influenced the catastrophe, although their author was himself taken by surprise. And this different criticism is and remains the point, for the impulse is of such extreme cultural anti-modernism and the implaccable emnity to liberal societies dressed up in spirituality.<br />Mr. Patterson's account is useful, interesting, but too doggedly devoted to a teaching he seems incapable of grasping in its full set of omens, which include the powers of occultists in these dark times, and low and behold a quite innocent case who gave sweets to children, an occultist in sufi trappings. Cleared of all charges. Case dismissed. Great spiritual sage. Tremendously inspiring force for the great spiritual restoration.<br />In any case Patterson's work is quite incomplete, but a useful addition to the documentation of this dangerous man. You wish the author would wake up a bit.	2003-01-29
1249527:US	50592435	RSN51VCTQ36RL	0674387104	230983022	Martin Heidegger: Between Good and Evil	Books	5	3	10	N	N	The gale that blows through Heidegger...	The epigram at the front of this brisk and efficient biography of Heidegger opens with an epigram from Arendt, 'The gale that blows through Heidegger...is not of our century...'. This is true, and evocative of the mysteries of philosophic history and origins, and yet the observation poignantly reveals the mystique that swept through the culture of the times and brought too many to a fool's ruin, among them students of Heidegger.  One reviews the question ad infinitum reluctant to pass judgement on a philosophic genius, and yet the facts of the history show just this, a long grace period, viz. the postwar French devotion to this philosophy, now followed by a renewed offensive at the harsh reality of the facts of the case, and the difficulty of separating any longer the philosopher in politics from his philosophy. Hellishness beckons.<br />This biography is very dry, neat, but includes the assessement of the case in the light of the work of Ott and Farias. Much was clear even before the rectorship speech, the influence of Junger, Spengler, then one gets unlucky, if one is mesmerized.<br />How can one judge? Is there a choice? One looks at the wreckage in a hurricane and moves on.	2003-01-28
1256701:US	50592435	R1WE2DEC32KD9	0312276699	374132639	War Without End: Israelis, Palestinians, and the Struggle for a Promised Land	Books	5	0	3	N	N	100 years war	This is a sobering account of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, with a background history of Zionism and the rise of Arab nationalism, and their destiny of collision. Although there are many far more detailed accounts, the mood here bespeaks a novel sense of reserve from erstwhile supporters, as the implications of the current hopeless situation sink in. The situation need not be hopeless, but wrong expectations will certainly be so. Thus part of the problem can be seen from the title itself, with the phrase, a promised land. What promise was this? The self betrayal by mythology has brought nearly to oblivion the situation of realistic thinking clearly visible in Herzl, who had no such illusions.	2003-01-22
1259447:US	50592435	R27ZI1XNAQC1R0	0801438721	585993535	Hegel and the Hermetic Tradition	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Sphinx in a time machine	This beguiling work opens with the statement, &quot;Hegel is not a philosopher&quot;. As we go further we see this is to mean that Hegel is expressing the perspective of Absolute Knowledge, in the echoes of the Hermetic tradition. This book is a bit of a tour de force, although perhaps unsettling to those who inherit the Hegel reshaped in the nineteenth century by the Young Hegelians and others, indeed by the reticent stance of Hegel himself whose interest in Bohme and Eckhart, and early contacts with Rosicrucianism, the Masons, and study of a host of occult and theosophical subjects, tends to be factored out of his biographies. This component of Hegel's philosophic odyssey might never meet the approval of an age of science, yet the context is important to an understanding of Hegel's sources and development, and also on the grounds that much that is obscure clarifies at once if seen in this light. In fact this analysis hits the spot. Too much logical bandwidth is wasted on a sort of logical positivist recoil at the glyphic Hegel. Seen in this light, he is another man entirely and can be taken on his own terms, and with a proper caution that the seeker with a mystic triangle argument stands in ghostly shadows near the dialectician hoping to explicate a law of history (read Left Hegelian, Marxist). It is important to know what you were up to!<br />Very well documented text, with good historical snapshots of this side of Reformation history, made to disappear from most philosophic treatments of Hegelian subjects.	2003-01-20
1264731:US	50592435	R3VENG71VJ3AYD	0792365852	853531164	Schopenhauer’s Broken World-View: Colours and Ethics between Kant and Goethe (Science and Philosophy)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	World in the head, head in the world?	As it came to pass (once upon a time) there was a scientific revolution. then from the woodwork crept gremlin Romantic poets in a sturm and drang amid which German philosophy grappled with science's broken world view. Schopenhauer, in the midst of this commotion, is seen as both an instance and exemplar, and a man armed with a transcending insight, inherited via Kant, yet with Fichtean echoes. This work very nicely recounts the fascinating subplot of the interaction of Schopenhauer and Goethe, with his theory of colors to which Schopenhauer contributed, but which did not detain him long, as he went on to complete his great opus. Schopenhauer's attempt to refocus on the A edition of Kant's Critique of Reason is the starting point for a critique of the Schopenhauer's distinct 'metaphysical' idealism of the will, bringing him closer to Berkeley, perhaps. Very interesting work<br />I was always wondering about Schopenhauer and Darwinism. I noted the critical comment cited of Schopenhauer on the earlier Lamarck (the real founder of evolutionary theory)in the generation of the early developmentalists (of which the philosopher was aware), and the 'obvious' sudden realization that the Darwin debate is foundering over the 'noumenal' aspect of the 'will', that is, the missing component indirectly visible as evolutionary directionality (of which Lamarck was still aware, before the Darwinists constructed their own 'metaphysical naturalism').  So much for Darwin. (Darwinists will grumble in vain, so much for Schopenhauer).<br />Excellent book, if you can afford it.	2003-01-16
1275964:US	50592435	RJIW1ISPOC5U5	0226293483	671647152	Nihilism Before Nietzsche (Phoenix Poets (Paperback))	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Dark Night of the Noumenal I	This work challenges Nietzsche's claim on the term and concept of 'nihilism'.<br />Hegel's notion of the history of philosophy in relation to a philosophy of history seems as obscure as the core of (his)philosophy itself, yet the history of philosophy is closely cousin to the dynamics of the modern, and we see Hegel's point better than he in the strange way the rise of modernity transforms a complex series of thoughts, streaming in from the medieval, evoked and tuned by Descartes, climaxing in the period of Kant,and his successors, the relation of Fichte to Kant being crucial, yet with an echo of Descartes. It is all too arcane, and proceeds in disguises. Like particles in an atom smasher the breakdown products stream across the nineteenth century and beyond. The point is that anything succeeding the period of early transformation has a poor chance of escaping the comprehensive nature of the 'history' as 'philosophy'.<br />Nietzsche cries out to be seen as entirely original, progressing beyond this peak,in some ways he is, yet we should wonder at his place in this sequence. Sure enough, as this work shows, the connection is direct. The relation to Schopenhauer is the obvious clue, but in this fascinating and quite compelling account Gillespie digs deeper to find the direct relationship to Fichte, and his response to the achievement of Kant. Fichte is the fall guy, forever excoriated, yet the man who is the key to what comes later. Here the words 'will', 'absolute I', and 'god' are the verbal chimeras of Fichte's entry into the noumenal realm, a venture denounced with his last breath by Kant. From there the explanation is suddenly clear, almost too clear perhaps, and proceeds through the Romantics, Hegel, the Left Hegelians, the Russian nihilists, and finally Nietzsche and his Dionysus.<br />Nietzscheans should tighten their seatbelts here, but the ride is worth it. Fascinating piece.	2003-01-08
1279305:US	50592435	R3KU8Z5T14SYUI	006095339X	497867283	Explaining Hitler	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Crime scene, missing evidence, no Sherlock	A highly stimulating series of perspectives in the attempts to 'explain Hitler', at the end of which we still, no doubt,are without the explanation, a point made by the author with his epigram of Emile Fackenheim at the beginning of the book. One might note the danger of being distracted by details, when the probably impossible-to-obtain explanation is both ordinary yet unknowable, as we gaze on a crime scene, assessing clues. There is a danger of becoming metaphysical in the wrong way, notwithstanding the need to consider the nature of radical evil.<br />There are a series of obvious explanations, none of which can be confirmed, but which emanate from the occult stench and dark muddled rumours of this episode of history, and many leadup and synchronous episodes completely disconnected with the historical context, which also includes 'explaining Nietzsche', not easy to do. That genre of explanation tends uniformly toward the crackpot and doesn't explain anything either, but that aspect of the evidence is always missing (and was surpressed at Nuremberg)<br />This is a very informative account, dealing with the whole history, starting with Trevor-Roper and Alan Bullock, to Goldhagen. Especially gripping was the account of the journalists of the Munich Post battling Hitler from the early twenties in the gangster world from which he emerged, to the final accession to power, when they were all wiped out.	2003-01-06
1291684:US	50592435	R32LE7TFWR21XK	1581152035	679546231	The Shape of Ancient Thought: Comparative Studies in Greek and Indian Philosophies	Books	5	19	24	N	N	The riddle of world history	In spite of the advances in archaeology our knowledge of world history is really a terra incognita and this work bravely sets sail into some of its most notable uncharted waters. In the process the author brings a degree of critical acumen to a subject where mistakes of understanding are probable due to the complete absence of a proper methodology for such a venture. Our image of Greece and the Greek Enlightenment too often filters out the significance of such as Pythagoras and Orphism, the taboo issue of reincarnation, indeed the mysterious strains in Plato, and the clear echoes of the world of Indian philosophy and yoga. The sheer scale of the endeavor is impressive and this work is an instant addition to one's resources on world history, which is not a full endorsement of the results as such. The work is such a compedium of interesting problems and research puzzles. Questions of diffusion haunt all efforts to assess the enigma of antiquity, and not the least problem is the very definition of 'philosophy' as this stretches between the terrain of rationalism to the domain of the Indian sutras, beside the charvakas, materialist monism, and secular humanism of the full spectrum of post-Upanishadic tradition. The author deals tactfully with the gnarled issue of Sumerian versus Indic diffusion, in a context of near Occidentalism overtaking Orientalism in the modern world's ironic recursion of one and the same mix of New Age mystics and rationalist philosophers. The verdict of the cylinder seals is a fascinating part of the argument. The great riddle of the source of the great yogas seems increasingly to find some evidence of a source in the Sumerian milieu, a point many would protest in a period of claims for India as the source of all civilizations. Once might cross Arabia twice on a camel and never see a sufi, let alone his unity with the yogi, and in the same way the exteriorization of the Indian spiritualities does not necessarily entail a visible diffusion of like to like. Thus the riddle remains most probably in some unseen aspect of the Sumerian world that also spawned a myth of Abraham.<br />This work breaks new ground in areas where crackpot thinking would be all too likely. I would, however, consider the lack of any consideration of a still more intractable riddle, that of the Axial Age, which might clarify the inability of diffusionist arguments to fully succeed here. More is going on than simple diffusion of 'ideas'. In general, proof of diffusion still falls short of explanation, and in a simpler case, Greek Archaic sculpture shows obvious affinities to the Egyptian, yet this does not explain the timing or later development.  In the same way we must wonder if the effects to be explained proceed as 'thoughts of a philosopher' as much as the 'self-consciousness' of the 'philo-sophist' or 'man of consciousness'. In Heraclitus we see the spectrum in mid range, half yogi, half philosopher, and the Indian echo, however mysterious still, is somehow transparent.<br />Fascinating book in a treacherous field. One might disagree but the focus on these problems is essential, however difficult their answers.to like. Thus the riddle remains most probably in some unseen aspect of the Sumerian world that also spawned a myth of Abraham. <BR>This work breaks new ground in areas where crackpot thinking would be all too likely. I would, however, consider the lack of any consideration of a still more intractable riddle, that of the Axial Age, which might clarify the inability of diffusionist arguments to fully succeed here. More is going on than simple diffusion of 'ideas'. In general, proof of diffusion still falls short of explanation, and in a simpler case, Greek Archaic sculpture shows obvious affinities to the Egyptian, yet this does not explain the timing or later development.  In the same way we must wonder if the effects to be explained proceed as 'thoughts of a philosopher' as much as the 'self-consciousness' of the 'philo-sophist' or 'man of consciousness'. In Heraclitus we see the spectrum in mid range, half yogi, half philosopher, and the Indian echo, however mysterious still, is somehow transparent. <BR>Fascinating book in a treacherous field. One might disagree but the focus on these problems is essential, however difficult their answers.	2002-12-27
1296772:US	50592435	R1HF4Z8PT03A60	0691050503	575054771	Reenchanted Science	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Holistic horror shows	This is a very useful overview of the history and legacy of holism in German Science concluding in the period of Uexhull, Driesch and also the gestalt psychologists, with particular attention to the fiasco of Weimar period, which gave the subject a bad name indeed. The book thus traces, in part, the roots of this tradition back to the generation before Darwin, in the era of the first developmentalists, following Schelling, Kant and Goethe. Even as Darwinian reductionism begins to generate its own limitations, the counter tradition begins to fall into an abyss where the confused 'profundities' of well-meaning (perhaps) thinkers suddenly find themselves in the cultural quagmire of Nazism. The book opens with an account of Weber's famous speech on 'disenchantment'. The reenchantment was a bit of a walpurgisnacht.	2002-12-22
1296962:US	50592435	RGYAQF2DQSHXE	0571199828	648157982	The Emperor and the Wolf: The Lives and Films of Akira Kurosawa and Toshiro Mifune	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Zen lenses	I found this bio-history of Japanese cinematography in general and Mifune and Kurosawa in particular to be highly illuminating, and an evocation of the lived memories of the these films appearances over the last generation, including finally seeing the full version of Seven Samurai. The fill-in background for the production of Rashomon, Ikuru, and Seven Samurai was especially interesting, in relation to Kurosawa's early years in the Japanese film industry, from the thirties through the war.I was intrigued to read of the influence of Hidden Fortress on Star Wars. Leave the sophisto literary analysis to Godzilla. These three films are inexplicable in context,  simply mysteriously appearing as three of the greatest films ever made.	2002-12-21
1302257:US	50592435	RY77RLZHGDQWD	0895560518	966127064	American Book of the Dead	Books	2	22	42	N	N	Sufistic deceptions	The status of the classic, fascinating Tibetan Book of the Dead, despite its reputation, remains vexed and it is finally an apocryphal and late text in the Buddhist tradition. Travel light and stick to basics.And beware of the associated abuses.<br />This work by the notorious Gold, a cloned wannabe in this vein, is essentially a pointless text, whose core meaning might become clear if you have read the last paragraph of Gurdjieff's All and Everything. Be forewarned! The 'work' is a false concept, and doesn't mean 'liberation', beware of what you agree to. Don't be caught in the clutches of these operators. It is one thing to groove on Sufi sayings like 'die before you die', quite another to take it as a form of spiritual practice at the hands of those with lunatic thinking in this field. I read an early version of this book years ago while interviewing a few of Mr. Gold's victims in a state of shock (he has plenty of groupies however), whose tales bespeak a singularly nutty versions of Gurdjieff-Sufism mishmashed. I was struck by the especial viciousness of the goings on in this regard, and the symbolic manipulation of the 'book of the dead' archetype. Sometimes posing as a Indian style guru, sometimes the Sufi sheik and/or 'successor' to Gurdjieff, this man with no stated credentials whatsoever, save the clear hints of being no guru at all but a Crowley style occultist, has let loose some stunning and dangerous howlers in this field, and I would recommend staying well beyond his influence. Period. The question of the Gurdjieff 'school'is hopeless at this point. There is no such thing as the 'fourth way' and the ersatz ashram in tricky combinations has drifted down history ad infinitum and this is no exception. You are under no obligation to spiritual obedience to these entrepreneurs. None whatever. Wake up and watch your step.	2002-12-17
1303143:US	50592435	R2M4SI7XK8LH30	1560001186	885964995	Toward a New Enlightenment: Philosophy of Paul Kurtz	Books	5	1	9	N	N	What is Enlightenment?	This aptly titled work carries an idea (all thy titles thou hast given away), and an implied challenge. In a period when a postmodern traffic jam of formerly modern millies and New Age bedouins and their high-priced gurus have changed the course of history in favor of more exciting Spenglerian fare, the gesture of invoking a renewed project, toward a new Enlightenment, represents a brave effort to go down fighting, or else simply stand and watch the frittering away of a significant heritage, suddenly defenseless against the triumph of new obscurantisms. But then the Enlightenment proposed would hope to bypass the splitting dialectic in the original project, well indicated in the original query of Kant. One need not agree with the actual proposals of this viewpoint then to see the cogency of the idea. Nor does a now defenseless rationalist need to feel put upon in an environment of pompously 'enlightened' New Age pied pipers, for the issue of the Enlightenment remains to haunt its wiseacres. And of course a dozen meanings certainly not intended by the author have already been three-card monte-ed onto the term, and the question of Kant. Like the sufi tale of the crows and the sweet pie, the very notion is almost stolen merchandise. One problem is, how would we initiate social change along these lines? Wasn't Marx a dabbler in this field? Seize the bull by the horns and start a social movement-no, the New Agers have filled the void.<br />More directly, I found the essays in this book to be a useful and ironic commentary on the past generation's confusion, and the amnesia about modernism its detractors need to repropose a new social conditioning. While I would find the skeptical humanism proposed not quite to my taste and too limited to withstand the predestigators now at work, and a bit underpowered in the flood of substitute sugars flooding the market, its basic gist confronts the postmodern entropies with quite a direct dialectical 'quo vadis'.	2002-12-16
1305790:US	50592435	R1K1GA4TDAAGZG	0767903439	900427094	The Marriage of Sense and Soul: Integrating Science and Religion	Books	4	0	13	N	N	Yogis, philosophers	In the globalization of the world's religions the inexorable collision of the great Indian yogas, or rather their disorganized traditions, and the 'western' heritage of both philosophy and science requires some kind of intelligent mediation and this work deserves mention hands down on that basis, without any particular agreement as such with the views taken. In fact, its clear insight into the limitations of western pyschologies is very much to the point, although something the fans of Indian traditions forever enjoy pointing out. I found problems however from the first, although it is more an issue of the New Age wasteland than of Wilbur's reasonable clarifications. Philosophy evokes contempt in yogis, but these paths fail to see the logic of history, where filling a postmodern void with theosophical noise will in the end wreck the modern project. Is that redemptive?<br /> It is clear that we have a Darwin problem, and it is clear that scientism, and the 'it-science' Wilber skewers, is susceptible to this one-dimensional thinking, may as well toss in the towel here, but can we justifiably reinvent the Grain Chain of Being to resolve these questions, as a new science? Who is the intermediary here, save a new priesthood?<br />The trap, and here Wilber, unlike many New Agers, shows a surprisingly cogent interest, was in fact seen by the great phase of German philosophy, at least in its Kantian version. Face it, the New Age is a metaphysical wasteland of borderline concepts, a dash of Kant might help. This Western wildflower 'Upanishadic' vein, is really a cousin, and should be of interest at the point where nine out of ten Buddhists spend forever deciphering the meaning of 'anatta'. Wilber's insight here suddenly becomes cavalier, and we are 'de-Kantianized' quite cleverly for the usual rerun of metaphysical mischief, with Fichte now to meditate out of his difficulties (head tied in knots by Kant), and the whole failure is now postmodern symptomology, etc... (Wilber is too smart, one hopes, to produce postmodern excesses, but he tends to harp on this issue, and to hope the New Age will fill some illusory postmodern void suggests these initiatives have a poor sense of history). If the Western tradition spawns philosophy instead of meditation, there is a reason, and if this did not bring us Patanjali, it is also true they worked hard to create a society that welcomes the 'autonomy' of the true yogi, something the history of guruism was unable to accomplish. Soul, divinity, and 'free will/freedom/causality' in the Kantian triple spawns three civilization for each one, and the 'yoga' of the west is concealed in these philosophies too many New Agers contemptuously dismiss.<br /> In fact, it is the Western critical attitude that now tells us the original Gita wasn't even theistic, which drives one to examine Wilber's 'post-Kantian' cleverness on this issue, here we go again. In general, the legacy of spiritual movements of this type is one of unique cultural degradation, whence this excessive confidence in the deliverance of the 'postmodern' West with these methods?<br />All in all this work is much better than so many New Age treatments of the issues, that I should note this cavil is partly pro forma. Interesting book, and some time behind 'enemy' lines. I could hardly judge, and note the way these yogas adapt to new environments, now the American.<br />For the seeker after meditation these are quibbles, perhaps, and this approach of Wilbur's might help more than philosophy! Since he means to pied piper children (Fichtes!) away from philosophy (understanding) we can gloat that he steps into Kantian flypaper.oo smart, one hopes, to produce postmodern excesses, but he tends to harp on this issue, and to hope the New Age will fill some illusory postmodern void suggests these initiatives have a poor sense of history). If the Western tradition spawns philosophy instead of meditation, there is a reason, and if this did not bring us Patanjali, it is also true they worked hard to create a society that welcomes the 'autonomy' of the true yogi, something the history of guruism was unable to accomplish. Soul, divinity, and 'free will/freedom/causality' in the Kantian triple spawns three civilization for each one, and the 'yoga' of the west is concealed in these philosophies too many New Agers contemptuously dismiss.<BR> In fact, it is the Western critical attitude that now tells us the original Gita wasn't even theistic, which drives one to examine Wilber's 'post-Kantian' cleverness on this issue, here we go again. In general, the legacy of spiritual movements of this type is one of unique cultural degradation, whence this excessive confidence in the deliverance of the 'postmodern' West with these methods? <BR>All in all this work is much better than so many New Age treatments of the issues, that I should note this cavil is partly pro forma. Interesting book, and some time behind 'enemy' lines. I could hardly judge, and note the way these yogas adapt to new environments, now the American. <BR>For the seeker after meditation these are quibbles, perhaps, and this approach of Wilbur's might help more than philosophy! Since he means to pied piper children (Fichtes!) away from philosophy (understanding) we can gloat that he steps into Kantian flypaper.	2002-12-13
1308211:US	50592435	R3EV0K3Z77RAH5	1859846521	854529265	Infinite Tropics: An Alfred Russel Wallace Anthology	Books	5	17	20	N	N	On the Origin of a Theory	This excellent collection of Wallace's writings, interspersed with commentary and vignettes by the editor, is very well done and a welcome addition to the literature about/by Wallace. The relationship, or 'delicate arrangement', between Wallace and Darwin, and the triggering of Darwin's book by the Ternate paper, is one of the strange and scandalous mysteries of the evolution of science, and a tale seldom told straight, in a tradition too many wish to fix with their own agendas and unable to quite handle the unconforming Wallace (cf. Brackman's A Delicate Arrangement). The Darwinians simply don't get it. The text contains a selection of Wallace's spiritualist views, and while these are caught up in the confusions of the first discredited 'new age' and theosophical movements of the nineteenth century and helped to discredit him, they do register Wallace's deeper insight finally than Darwin's into the problems in evolutionary theory, taken as a thesis about natural selection.  Noone seems to grasp that Wallace not only co-discovered selectionist evolution, but was able to see the catch in the resulting account of the descent of man, which is the emergence of potential, not explicable in terms of adaptation. Someday the world will catch up with Wallace.<br />This fine book is slightly marred with Gould's tendentious remarks about Wallace in a short preface. If Wallace's reputation suffers it is partly because the Darwinian establishment keeps him in a box, witness this preface with its polite sideswiping. I hope it will increase sales with Gould's name and that readers will skip the preface for the book. Gould was quietly nervous about this aspect of his Darwin obsessiveness.<br />It is a mystery if ever there was one.<br />Stand back and consider the remarkable set of facts involved in the duo, starting with Darwin's early paper, Wallace coming from behind, the unnecessary sending of the paper to Darwin (he could have had the credit, the overall constellation of events and the resulting dialectical spread of views, something quite different from one man producing a theory. Does it not strike one as quite odd? To the Darwinian reinventors of Plato's Cave, it won't seem odd at all, they are too far gone.<br />I hope this is the beginning of a new proper account of biological theory, Wallace to the fore.  Darwin's delay, and the missing letters, and the rigging of the Linean Society papers, do not bode well for the always-propped-up reputation of the Great Founder beside the real one, depicted here. Excellent book.nd the resulting dialectical spread of views, something quite different from one man producing a theory. Does it not strike one as quite odd? To the Darwinian reinventors of Plato's Cave, it won't seem odd at all, they are too far gone. <BR>I hope this is the beginning of a new proper account of biological theory, Wallace to the fore.  Darwin's delay, and the missing letters, and the rigging of the Linean Society papers, do not bode well for the always-propped-up reputation of the Great Founder beside the real one, depicted here. Excellent book.	2002-12-12
1309971:US	50592435	RJ31GFBAFLGU7	0226763501	412491680	Hegel's Critique of Liberalism: Rights in Context	Books	5	7	14	N	N	Rechsstaat, Geist, and governance	The reputation of Hegel has been so besmirched in the minds of many by the perils of statism gone awry that it is remarkable to see a book actually rescue him from charges of these evils, and others, and actually make some sense of his political philosophy. I think, however, that getting Hegel right is one thing in theory, and another in practice, and the chaotification of this seven course Hegelian dinner in its Marxist version has been tragic. We cannot simply say that all these people got Hegel wrong and issue a new 'the real Hegel', for such things rarely get second chances. But it behooves any Marxist to consider the scrambled version of this going on unconsciously, in some Feuerbachian pidgin translation. Brought out into the light, the full scope of Hegel's view are eloquent, rich, and powerful, as this book illustrates very easily. That does not mean one should agree. But if anything this formal challenge to the natural rights tradition can illuminate the limits of the mechanized political liberalism of the first stage of the modernist social revolution. After this exceptionally clear, and reasonably short, survey of all the issues, one realizes that the problem was not really Hegel, but the inexorably arising misinterpretations of his decidedly difficult works.<br />One should note that such a clear exposition as this can actually make one think this is an easy subject and Hegel's views here are the object of many controversies and has many critics, consider Isaiah Berlin's Freedom and Its Betrayal, or Tucker's Philosophy and Myth in Karl Marx.<br />One might also be sure to start at square one and consider the views Hegel reacts against, among them Kant's, cf. Patrick O'Reilly's Kant's Political Philosophy.	2002-12-10
1310873:US	50592435	R2HJNGFA0BUOBJ	0312229674	943071577	Freedom in Chains: The Rise of the State and the Demise of the Citizen	Books	4	16	32	N	N	Statism as a state of mind	Doggedly dialectical I picked this book up as I was reading Steven Smith's 'Hegel's Critique of Liberalism' and found reading it against a backdrop of Hegel refreshingly contradictory at high voltage. The contrast was so stark the book lept to life. Indeed, its diatribes against Rousseau and Hegel nearly brand the book as a specimen according to type, and curiosuly compelling for that reason. Taken alone, I fear (and I would be accused of being the enemy by the author, if not run out of town), the book shortcircuits in a libertarianism so extreme that its core insight is lost. What Hayekian fancy finds welfare an evil of statism in the same class as Stalinist statist apocalypse (Hayek actually endorsed a 'safety net')? The author seems unaware of the danger he will vitiate an important argument in the catastrophic collapse of the left in stalinoid muddle. Still, I read on without passing judgement (which speaks poorly for a 'review' a such) and found it enlightening in its oddity, cogency and wrongheadedness all scrambled together, and in a way that almost negates its own strain of neoliberal ideology: and who are these people meddling in government then? The problem is that the 'state' pace Marx is ambiguous, and if I do a search and replace, so to speak, with 'multinational corporations' on the word 'state', I could end up with a variant of Marx's argument here. All this lopsided dialectical combinations simply chase the dog's tail in circles, and it was Rousseau who tried to combine all of them in a conceptual unity, and Marx who started his career critiquing Hegel on the state. Further, the author's charge of 'idealism' in this strain of statism seemingly visible in Hegel forgets the classic classical liberalism of Kant, a point clear from the writings of Hayek. In any case, freedom from state is a state of mind, and one can be as enslaved a state without bureaucratic domination as with. In any case, Marx's point simply resurfaces here, for the 'state' is ambiguously implied and as enforced behind the disconnect of government functionality and randomly dispersed 'market corporation' which wish to be free from state control, yet enforce its domination with libertarian abstractions. Control and domination haunts the mind of the 'sovereign individual' seeking his freedom therein and not achieving it.<br />Strange to say, however, I felt a chord of curious agreement with this perspective, even after awarding myself points for tearing the arguments to pieces.ously implied and as enforced behind the disconnect of government functionality and randomly dispersed 'market corporation' which wish to be free from state control, yet enforce its domination with libertarian abstractions. Control and domination haunts the mind of the 'sovereign individual' seeking his freedom therein and not achieving it. <BR>Strange to say, however, I felt a chord of curious agreement with this perspective, even after awarding myself points for tearing the arguments to pieces.	2002-12-10
1311754:US	50592435	R3W57YACJAZP8I	1555911595	584263535	Evolution, Creationism, and Other Modern Myths: A Critical Inquiry	Books	5	28	48	N	N	The Darwin Origins Myth	This is an interesting and reasonable assessment of the Darwin debate from a most interesting and different perspective, and one that is unususual for seeing the Darwin debate as a whole, and the subtle dialectical collusion of the two parties to the dispute, Creationists and scientists. We become so mesmerized by the details of opposing viewpoints that we fail to see the real battle, which is over normative fixations of belief, and the displacement of the middle ground.  The author here simply steps past both viewpoints, taking, howevr, a somewhat warmer stance toward the Intelligent Design thinkers, rightly seeing that this perspective, beyond it trappings, can go either way. Time to hear from the shaman contingent.<br />One of the great oddities of the development of evolutionism is the reductionist cast that cannot make hide nor hare of the clear, and unmistakable traces of early man's 'spirituality' and evolution, so visible in the late descendants of the great Spirit and shaman traditions. While it is absolutely difficult to reconstruct what this might have been like in truly primordial stages of human evolution, we must be suspicious that some such cultural form was intrinsically connected to the core cultural evolution of early man.<br />Agree or not, this is a balanced critique of the embarassingly obvious mindset of the one-dimensional Darwinians.	2002-12-09
1312662:US	50592435	R67X3J8K6LNQQ	0812693663	863707707	Assassination Science : Experts Speak Out on the Death of JFK	Books	5	12	19	N	N	The 'case closed' forever reopened	One tends to drift through books on the Kennedy assassination, forever suspicious, never satisfied, as hypotheses tend to come and go,cancelling each other out, leaving one the luxury of 'interesting, but doubtful' by way of non-conclusion. This book scotches that in its tracks. With this treatment by a series of qualified investigators a new standard is set, and the result is a fixation of facts that, to use the philosophic terminology of one contributor, thresholds issues of Popperian falsifiability, to say nothing of Foucauldian analyses of truth and power.<br />A compilation of experts, for once, the book focuses less on the speculative exotica of the Assassination Legend, and fairly well settles the quest of the authenticity of the Xrays, the diagrams of Kennedy's brain, and the Zapruder film. Especially the latter is, contrary to initial intuition, suddenly seen as altogether suspect in an exacting series of analyses, as the tampering seems to become transparent, starting with the gross violations of the 'chain of evidence' procedures normal in such cases. It is therefore a close shave indeed for the 'lone gun man' theory.<br />As to who the whodunit are I will leave anyone interested to the theory of Evelyn Lincoln, Kennedy's secretary, quoted in the text. Another perfect crime by somewho's associated with the higher functions of the Yankee Doodle system, maybe. But probably not a lone gunman.	2002-12-08
1316355:US	50592435	R39EHNPFL38UZ8	1890132128	698199166	Global Spin: The Corporate Assault on Environmentalism	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Sharks in a think-tank	Very good expose, naming details, of the campaign to discredit environmentalism by the various conservative business groups at risk from public awareness of the issues. From the use of fronts, to the thinktanks to the public relations industry, the account shows how public opinion, which favors some kind of action on these crucial issues, has been consistently thwarted by the massive onslaught of opinion-manipulation.	2002-12-05
1320135:US	50592435	R11Q0BVMWNXEDJ	0199254567	36136688	Radical Enlightenment: Philosophy and the Making of Modernity 1650-1750	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Modernity's seminal emergence	We see the climactic moment of the Enlightenment,and the explosion at the end of the eighteenth century generating a new age and world, yet we often fail, save in the clearer case of science, to see the crucial lead-up to this passage. And behind many of the major figures there is a precursor, thus Petty before Adam Smith. The emergence of feminism, yes here the signs. And the list continues. This work systematically explores this aspect of modernity and the Enlightenment by tracing its roots back to the Radical Enlightenment of the seventeenth century, as Europe emerges from the chaos of the Thirty Years War. There Spinoza, beside a host of lesser known figures, and contrary to reputation, is a major underground influence, besides Newton and Descartes. Intimated by Hazard in his older La Crise de la conscience Europeene, this thesis is stretched backwards further from the 1680's by Israel, with a broader sweep transcending nationalism, even as he throws light on the insufficiently appreciated place of the Dutch culture in the rise of the modern. Especially striking in a fullsome banquet of historical detail is the portrait and treatment of the axial figure of Spinoza, and his relation to the birth of liberalism, Biblical criticism, and the characteristic philosophy of immanence that will echo all way through the chorus of modern philosophy. This book will remain a steady companion to the study of the Enlightenment. Tops.	2002-12-02
1321052:US	50592435	R3M2UKBPPSNE01	0674006712	431315804	Empire	Books	4	7	23	N	Y	Halflife of a republic...?	This riddling work has been the target of so many direct hits and the howls-of-protests of liberal political-sci mandarins that the only thing left (in a postmodern vein, 'these fragments have we from our ruins')is to review is the footnote on page 31, \\"...the thesis that the decline of Rome began with Caesar was continually reproposed throughout the historiography of the age of the Enlightenment...\\" That about says it. These critics must ask who gets the last laugh. The books sifts the leftist omens of capital demise with the correct foreboding, but not prophecy: It is easy to protest postmodern pastiche, but history shows every chance republics decay into empires, and their decadence begins not with the barbarians invading but with the appearance of Ceasars. Have the Caesars appeared? They may have upgraded their act, and after so much expertise with Madison-Ad you'll never know what hit you.<br />The question seems taken for granted in the book, but its crypto-Spenglerianism with a Foucauldian postmodern face seems unsure, or else ambivalent, or else licking it chops, if by a change of labels this decadence might do the job of failed revolution.<br />What an odd book. I read it twice, but was unable to get with the program, but then saw their point, better the leftist Caesars??? 'We will make you a better offer'.<br />In fact, the riddle of the book is solved by taking it in fragments, a puzzle to be solved, with many pieces disassembled, from Descartes to Derrida. Leftist thought is fatigued, and gets a good rolfing with a change of associations to shatter dead brain mass. Anything but more Second Internationale cliches.<br /> However, there is no postmodern escape. The postmodern provokes the an awesome task the Russian revolution too obviously failed to resolve, actually understanding the modern so you can surpass it! That's the catch in this type of argument. You are back to the grind with schoolboy lessons ('discipline and punish') in the 'regles du jeu', with or without a Voltaire wig. The postmodern simply jacknifes against its modernism, and becomes its next outcome.<br />Fascinating, unnerving book. But the solution to the revolutionary problem requires a republic...or without a Voltaire wig. The postmodern simply jacknifes against its modernism, and becomes its next outcome. <BR>Fascinating, unnerving book. But the solution to the revolutionary problem requires a republic...	2002-12-02
1327269:US	50592435	R6TTE2JG0IYUE	082481746X	269216029	Rude Awakenings: Zen, the Kyoto School, & the Question of Nationalism (Nanzan Library of Asian Religion and Culture)	Books	5	14	23	N	N	Prisoners of Time	This is a well-done study of an important question, the legacy of Zen and its political colorations, most tragically during the World War era of this century, that in the process provokes a deeper series of questions about religion, the histories of such, and their relations to social states. If Zen wishes us to escape time then the times and places to do this might end by preventing this, being timebound, reaching nowhere, as a destination. In the end some must have slipped away, but the form of the religion succumbs to history, with the ambiguous or sad ending here described. The Chinese-Japanese legacy of Buddhism is a brilliant creation, unique beyond anything in the more ideological monotheistic religions, but in the end the preemption of Zen by the Nationalist state during the twentieth century requires careful study, not only by historians, but by students of religion. For there is a point after which religions, intended to help people, cease to help them. As the book details the control of Zen by the state began very early, and as with the Constantinian version of Christianity we have an ambiguous cultural entity, distancing itself from the forest renunciations of the original Buddhism.<br />The studies in this book are invaluable food for thought, and very scholarly snapshots, with an interesting essay on Daisetz Suzuki, the Zen missionary to America. He seems to have sensed the whole problem, and in his detachment slipped away with the treasure to the land of the disorderly and too zany Americans, the next to try their luck with this religion.<br />It may not be meditation to read this book, but it is worth reading anyway, for it is clear that the history of a religion is not a spiritual reality. One hitchhikes on the form, to slip away in the end...<br />There is of course a dialectical antithesis: Buddhism, beginning in a forest, became in short order the Indian State...How so?<br />Perhaps the state might need protection from this other state...	2002-11-26
1329332:US	50592435	RQBU6X2BVV979	0889467870	184457594	The Philosophy of Schopenhauer in Its Intellectual Context: Thinker Against the Tide (Studies in German Thought and History, Vol 11)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Portrait of the great generation of German Idealism	Surprisingly, this charming biographical scenery of the generation of Schopenhauer and the German Idealists and Romantics is actally available and in print (price??!!).<br />Facscimile typescript in the edition I have seen. It is a very interesting picture with a curious assortment of vignettes of the young Schopenhauer and the influences on his early development, including his relation with Goethe. Also now available a biography of Schopenhauer by Safaranski.	2002-11-24
1333563:US	50592435	R22PB39UMPZAMS	0805070893	702232531	Why People Believe Weird Things: Pseudoscience, Superstition, and Other Confusions of Our Time	Books	4	6	17	N	N	The ambiguity of skepticism	Looking at the confusions of the New Age movement, in a long list of occult and superstitious confusions, the perspective of the skeptic as presented by Shermer would seem a fundamental discipline of thought--and yet... The problem is that the stance of positivistic scientism, armed with an incomplete theory of evolution, has gone into reverse and produced a view of man that is unrealistic, and not concordant with a greater tradition of human self-enquiry, however vexed that might be at its fringes and in its degenerations. It is always the same double whammy that Kant points to at the beginning of his great Critique, the double bind of the metaphysical and the narrow empiricist. The influence of Darwinism has been especially confusing here in underwhelming at the crucial point and producing an account of man that is reduced to something history contradicts. It is a point Wallace sensed, and as Arthur Koestler reviews that in his Janus man has an 'evolutionary' potential that he is almost spastically incapable of understanding, but which seems to have emerged early in his evolution, and certainly not as adaptation.<br />Modern Darwinism has thrown the skeptic off course here. What is the point of categorical rejection of telepathy? Everyone senses it, but noone can ever get it straight. It is a subject about which one is condemned to know nothing, and yet whose denial is likely to prove false. The great Indian sutras suggest the right approach, more practical, without the baggage of reductionist metaphysics. Target the essential, awareness and its development. Then, if the zone of occult noise arises, note it and pass on, without getting caught in these demented sideshows of the magical madmen.<br />All this said, the track record of this Shermer-style skepticism, however problematic, is actually quite good in practice. Conmen are rife here. The endless exploitations of human suggestibility have produced a wretchedly confused generation of New Age groupies, and the ambulance service of the \\"Skeptics\\" is an important approach. The problem is that people believe weird things because they are distorted versions of rather less than weird intimations of man's enigmatic nature. One might do better with a razzle-dazzle approach combining the spiritual discipline of a genuine and rigorous yogic psychology, a Kantian style metaphysical reserve, next to the all-important, but flawed, methodology of the developing sciences. But it is important to realize that Darwin will play you false here. Darwin just won't do it on the real 'evolutionary psychology' of man.bulance service of the \\"Skeptics\\" is an important approach. The problem is that people believe weird things because they are distorted versions of rather less than weird intimations of man's enigmatic nature. One might do better with a razzle-dazzle approach combining the spiritual discipline of a genuine and rigorous yogic psychology, a Kantian style metaphysical reserve, next to the all-important, but flawed, methodology of the developing sciences. But it is important to realize that Darwin will play you false here. Darwin just won't do it on the real 'evolutionary psychology' of man. <BR>	2002-11-20
1336780:US	50592435	R23DVXWMUPK97M	0712679359	420849603	The Jew of Linz: Wittgenstein, Hitler and Their Secret Battle for the Mind	Books	4	1	6	N	N	Why people don't believe weird things...	Pursuing some foundational history of analytic philosophy, I thought a biographical window into Wittgenstein might help, and read this book which was like a sock in the jaw. I was left staring at the wall, are the author's theses true, verifiable, falsifiable? A somewhat ironic question since the toughest of analytical standards suddenly lands itself in both historical and occult deep water. I must then withdraw endorsement whatsoever of the conclusions, yet note, what an interesting book for reasons the author didn't quite intend. Beyond the question of Wittgenstein and Hitler, and Wittgenstein and Communism, the author braves the most dangerous (epistemologically and otherwise) of questions, the occult stench surrounding Hitler, a factor frequently noted, and as frequently factored out as crackpot. The account here is borderline, but not crackpot, and in fact one of the few accounts able to state some facts.  My point is that to state them in the context of the toughest epistemological critics is an interesting exercise beside the wild books in this genre. Wittgenstein is not quite the man we thought, with the heritage of Schopenhauer lurking in the background. And the book reminds us that Schopenhauer had a viable, almost unknown, consideration of the occult, a lost thread of modern philosophy he alone had the epistemology to handle, distinguishing spiritual magic and superstition from so-called 'idealist magic' (almost as bad to think about), that is, the unknown fringe psychology of the noumenal, where scientific psychology also simply fumbles the ball. This can be useful for entering this dangerous field of the unknown Hitler without the suggestible hallucinations that corrupt most accounts, or the absolute skepticism that also misses the point. The real crooks here never got caught, and it is finally hopeless to try occult analysis of Hitler. Nothing ever succeeds here. It is a question that noone has ever clarified, and where a host of shadowy figures pursue their dementias. One can simply file away the author's theories and find this account of Wittgenstein and his milieu as an exotic glimpse of an enigmatic philosopher.their dementias. One can simply file away the author's theories and find this account of Wittgenstein and his milieu as an exotic glimpse of an enigmatic philosopher.	2002-11-17
1337416:US	50592435	R1M69OXFBOOQXF	0810118092	934827072	Time in the Ditch: American Philosophy and the McCarthy Era	Books	5	8	15	N	N	Timeless truths of bourgeois ideology?	In search of histories of recent (analytic) philosophy I came on this book, which pursues the alarming thesis that McCarthyism and analytic philosophy are somehow circumstantially evidenced, a thesis that left me non-plussed, and muttering, 'must be something to Marx's charges'.  One often has the feeling one is crossing a desert in this branch of philosophy, but then the same has been said of reading Kant's critiques. But philosophers need not apologize for being bedouins, and this work actually spiked my interest here, not only because it raises the toughest of questions, echoing since the days of the Left Hegelian charges against Hegel with his 'absolute science'.<br />Interesting, and somewhat unnerving book.	2002-11-17
1340815:US	50592435	R39NC4D9QUB45B	0198250037	72682355	Self and World in Schopenhauer's Philosophy	Books	5	9	15	N	N	Self seen, self unseen	The appearance of Kant's critiques resulted very swiftly in what some thought a series of contradictions, as in the famous problem of double affection. The swiftly moving stream passes via Fichte to Hegel as the core distinction of the noumenal and phenomenal is factored into a nearly opposite result. As if standing by to watch this current and respond with a gesture of the original vision, Schopenhauer with brilliant insight attempts to assess these reactions with a streamlined recursion of the Kantian perspective. Janaway's cogent summary and critique is surprising in its acumen, and a trifle cold in its assessement of Schopenhauer's quirky yet solid version of 'transcendental idealism'. But then the fan of Schopenhauer tends to linger in a vision whose logical complexities are actually well served by this unsentimental analysis. One is put to work on the strange paradoxes of self and appearance in the context of one who braves these dangerous waters that later analytical philosophy would be so determined to rid us of. Schopenhauer's corpus is either ignored or made into a belief system, here we see a way via critique that it might be exercised to its limits and understood, unless the severity of the analyis of what is always a brittle philosophy pointing to a deeper noumenal reality is taken as some final reduction of the 'fallacy' of the whole endeavor. The irony is that Kant and Schopenhauer always seem to survive their critics, here they are both, I should think, well served by one such.<br />Challenging work for anyone alert to this irascible campanion of the great period of German philosophy.	2002-11-14
1340971:US	50592435	R2EHWDJDD6IBZJ	1859733301	929782651	Animal Revolution: Changing Attitudes Towards Speciesism	Books	5	4	6	N	N	The coming of vegetarian civilization	This is a fascinating and useful account of man's philosophic and religious mindsets toward the animal world, and rides the tide of the animal rights movement, with a history of same since the resurgence of activism in the sixties onward. A good companion to Singer's Animal Liberation, the book shares with it what I would consider an excessively solicitous attitude toward Darwinism, although the latter provides indirectly the characteristically openended injunction to see the continuum of man and animal brethren. In fact, how account for the evolution of this emergentist trend in history toward the post-carnivorous human? This apart, the splendid portrait in detail of the confusion over man-animal relations fills the void in one's awareness of this issue, and one senses the onset of a one-way valve here: there is no going back. The last excuses for the passage have fallen away in an age of scientific genetics and nutritional research. The man in the business devouring the flesh of animals is a morbid spectacle of an extinct 'species', goodbye to all that.	2002-11-14
1344891:US	50592435	R13RFM1555XO7G	0060011572	345099793	Animal Liberation	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Human/animal liberation	I reread this again after a Times article on the issues and found this book as good as it ever was, clear to the point, and as such one of the most important books of the last generation, albeit with potential philosophic flaws. Since the author's argument has been entirely successful in its influence, he must be doing something right, and one might hesitate to critique its minor flaws. The basic issue Singer raises is so fundamental, as one surveys the maleficent beef culture that has swept the planet, and turned American culture into an orgy of Big Mac goons in the frivolous marketizaton of carnivore snacking. One can only shake one's head at the damage accelerating since the first appearance of this book, and the movement associated with it. What's wrong with people? Jain saddhus were vegetarian (supervegetarians) millennia ago, before even Gautama Buddha. Vegetarianism is an apsect of man's true evolutionary psychology, and no apology to Darwinists is required there. That raises one point I might reconsider(in my own use of this book, respecting the different perspectives here)in the thrust of Singer's thesis, his overreliance on Darwinism. The influence of Darwin in showing the natural continuity of man and animal is so greatly to be welcomed that one hesitates to point out that speciesism rebutted in the name of Darwin doesn't completely answer the question as to the nature of man, or his real evolution, as the example of the ancient Jains might make clear. Can't modern thought ever recover the 'real knowledge of man' now lost to winds?<br />In any case, this work is must reading. What to say of animals, liberate the man-animal, klutz and homo non-sapiens bigmacensis.	2002-11-11
1348027:US	50592435	R3SV4BYNUS1GUC	0877225664	704769307	Social Darwinism: Science and Myth in Anglo-American Social Thought (American Civilization)	Books	5	10	30	N	N	Darwin's Dangerous Idea	This is an important text in the study of Social Darwinism, written partly in response to Hofstadter's classic work on the subject. Somewhat revisionist it challenges some of the findings in that earlier work. It is a useful exercise to read both works, and one might in addition read a recent essay on the history of Hofstadter's work leading into Bannister's in an essay in Eric Foner's Who Owns History. Although I would recommend Bannister's work as essential reading here, I think the question of &quot;Social Darwinism&quot; is often misinterpreted depending on our prior and assumed views of Darwin's theory. If we are 'Darwinists' and accept his theory of selectionism in any strong form as a full theory we will inexorably become tacit 'social Darwinists', for the simple reason that we believe the rigors of natural selection will produce the highest evolved complexity. Therefore more of the same, etc... This obstinate fallacy springs from the failure to see that theories have temporal domains, and that a true theory of evolution must separate the past, present and futre, something Darwinian thinking is too clubfooted to do. The results are historically disatrous. Thus we are automatically likely to miscalculate our place in an historical context. Mimicking natural selection in social history is a nobrainer and will not produce further evolution in man, and yet we tend unconsciously to think so. And, despite Bannister's pointing to the thinness of the actual references to the term 'Social Darwinism', the fact is that vast numbers of people quietly and without much public discourse feel obligated to act in a social Darwinist manner.<br />In fact, because of this confusion over theory, it should be said that Darwin, always defended from the charge usually pinned on Spencer, is really a clear 'Social Darwinist', by the very nature of the case. So analysis here stands or falls on the status of Darwin's theory, and there the point is precisely that we lack the full proof of that natural selection is the real answer in toto for man's descent. It is a disastrous confusion, and one that mars this otherwise interesting complement to the literature.<br />In a broader context, the calamitous influence of Darwin cannot be explained away so easily by focussing solely on the concepts of something called 'Social Darwinism'. Its effect on the First World War generation and later can't be explained away so easily, nor the overall influence absolved.<br />The main point is to see that Darwin's actual selectionist theory is probably false, and then research here can start all over.f that natural selection is the real answer in toto for man's descent. It is a disastrous confusion, and one that mars this otherwise interesting complement to the literature.<br />In a broader context, the calamitous influence of Darwin cannot be explained away so easily by focussing solely on the concepts of something called 'Social Darwinism'. Its effect on the First World War generation and later can't be explained away so easily, nor the overall influence absolved.<br />The main point is to see that Darwin's actual selectionist theory is probably false, and then research here can start all over.	2002-11-07
1353385:US	50592435	RTKH7R6XHVBT9	0670031518	879167194	The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of Human Nature	Books	3	5	18	N	N	Confusing history and evolution	A basic confusion in most evolutionary theories lies in their tacit mixing of domains, and their inability to either unify or contrast history and evolution. The result is the chronic ideological factor, left and right, in the collation of historical and evolutionary theory. All parties seem oblivious to the absurdity of political point arguments using assumptions of Darwinian adaptationism, and selectionist speculation. Pinker's new work on evolutionary psychology is remarkable in its direct and yet, remarkably, unwitting muddle of these domains. The weak position of the typical 'blank slate' position which Pinker nimbly criticizes distracts attention from the sheer audacity of the clearly conservatizing gesture, in the lineage of E.O. Wilson.<br />Let us breathe a sign of relief. It is highly unlikely there is or could be a 'science' of human nature. Thus our only problem is to wake up the proponents of each new brand of scientism in this regard.  Controlling by definition or science the nature of 'human nature' is a dangerous business. We might well recall the short work the original Rousseau made of such nonsense (granting the equal nonsense sometimes made of his own views).<br /> We need a theory that can show how man's actions in history evolve in relation to values, and this in relation to possible scenarios of the Paleolithic. Darwin's theory is stillborn and unable to provid that transitional mixture and nosedives into its 'slow change' conservatism applied to modern politics (the left is often no better). It is obsessed with its improperly verified selectionist claims.<br />Such things ought to be embarassing but instead they pass as science. Darwinism especially suffers this problem as the 'mechanism of natural selection' as emergentist process is misapplied to value issues, speculation restated as fact, and the result is the bedlam of ideological entanglement in the 'blank slate/human nature' debate as this betrays its ideological character at every point, starting with the now archetypical 'Rousseau bashing' of the sociobiologists who have missed the point about the Noble Savage. The genetic revolution, however, is still a work in progress, so what's in fact is the point?<br />But one can only say good riddance to such an extreme view as the Blank Slate in its straw man version, and shrug at the suggestion that something like a 'human nature' has a genetic component, mindful that for all its flaws the blank slate stance was a justified caution near the catastrophic abuse of Darwinian racism characteristic of this century. This field is dangerous, and has a criminal record, and Pinker's indignation at our caution is not really justified. Having declared in part for human nature, we should ask who can define it, and how, and how did its definition become outright political football? The basic issue is the inadequacy of Darwin's theory of natural selection. Without that mechanism, reask the question, What is human nature, please? Millennia of men, for example, have held beliefs in the soul, and the technocratic definition of man,which Rousseau foresaw with dread, and speaking oneself as a secularist, is simply presumptuous in the extreme if it thinks that Darwinian selectionism can settle this issue in the negative. The crackpot secularism thinking it has Darwinian grounds to outlaw these 'superstitions' will end in a collision. The question is not even spiritual in its Buddhist version, the material soul being an aspect of quite another 'evolutionary psychology', fully atheist and materialist, as seen in the ancient Jainism. By the way, how and when did such commonsensical evolutionary psychologies evolve themselves, to be visible at such an early date? The point is that we know virtually nothing about the full scope of the true version of the Descent of Man. These are the fatal limits of Darwinism. We should not be confusing the theory of how things evolved, especially if their evidence is inadequate, with how things should be now and in the future, or the result is the flaunting of wretched whiggery so evident in Pinker's denial of ideology, with its standard debunking of the 'utopian nonsense'. Reviewing books on evolution can become repetitive: it is always the same problem, natural selection run riot as an explanatory device of theory. Thus it is tempting to join the fray on particulars, but this results in chaotification of discourse, a characteristic of the Blank Slate proponents, now in retreat, seemingly, in the genetic revolution. Since the technocratic redefinition of man has succeeded in imposing this Darwinian belief system, with insufficient evidence, one feels a sense of helplessness in joining the fray. One can only say, be wary. The nature of man, and his human nature, cannot be determined properly with Darwin's theory. Since this point can no longer be defended properly in public, one simply goes underground like a Buddhist.<br /> In general, the assault on ethical evolution with reductionist methods, as with group or kin selection models, are continually presented and promoted as 'fait accompli', already proven, when in fact they are simply speculative extensions trying to save basic Darwinian assumptions. Student in broader humanistic fields are not under any obligation to take them as established. These confusions are as old as the nineteenth century, and the legacy of positivism. They spring from a refusal or blindness near the limits of theory. Their complexity is mesmerizing, and that makes their flaws difficult to see. Don't be fooled into thinking such things are really science. They serve an agenda. It is very doubtful if there is a `science' of human nature. Beware of those who claim such, left or right.should be now and in the future, or the result is the flaunting of wretched whiggery so evident in Pinker's denial of ideology, with its standard debunking of the 'utopian nonsense'. Reviewing books on evolution can become repetitive: it is always the same problem, natural selection run riot as an explanatory device of theory. Thus it is tempting to join the fray on particulars, but this results in chaotification of discourse, a characteristic of the Blank Slate proponents, now in retreat, seemingly, in the genetic revolution. Since the technocratic redefinition of man has succeeded in imposing this Darwinian belief system, with insufficient evidence, one feels a sense of helplessness in joining the fray. One can only say, be wary. The nature of man, and his human nature, cannot be determined properly with Darwin's theory. Since this point can no longer be defended properly in public, one simply goes underground like a Buddhist.<BR> In general, the assault on ethical evolution with reductionist methods, as with group or kin selection models, are continually presented and promoted as 'fait accompli', already proven, when in fact they are simply speculative extensions trying to save basic Darwinian assumptions. Student in broader humanistic fields are not under any obligation to take them as established. These confusions are as old as the nineteenth century, and the legacy of positivism. They spring from a refusal or blindness near the limits of theory. Their complexity is mesmerizing, and that makes their flaws difficult to see. Don't be fooled into thinking such things are really science. They serve an agenda. It is very doubtful if there is a `science' of human nature. Beware of those who claim such, left or right.	2002-11-03
1354392:US	50592435	RSX9A4BCP4WG0	0786868767	964050438	Koba the Dread	Books	5	7	15	N	N	Circles of Hell	In the vein of Robert Conquest's The Great Terror, and The Black Book Of Communism, this penetrating snapshot of Stalin at his most grotesque is another of the 'delayed reactions', going into shock in the wake of 1989, that ask us to take stock also of the slogans and ideologies of so many, and the inability of leftist intellectuals to see the obvious. The book has a photograph of a poster from 1931 clearly warning of the rising sense of the Stalin problem. It is not as if noone was able to arrive at the facts, or be alert to emerging disaster amidst the tactics of propaganda. However, the composers of the more thorough Black Book of Communism were leftists. This perspective threatens to become a witchhunt of every intellectual even moderately confused here, including Edmund Wilson. While most leftist intellectuals might well beat themselves over the head for stupidity here, as the author seems to suggest, I think one should beware at this point, short of a reactionary exploitation of this horror, whose insanity proceeds seamlessly into the realities of capitalist convulsion, Social Darwinism, nineteenth century imperialism, and the First World War. We are all co-responsible. Globalization drives men to insanity as the musical chairs effect makes them wake up to their coming statistical destruction. To this day, we fail to note the obvious and analogous ideological blindness clearly present in the legacy of Darwinism, and the ceaseless promotion of concealed Social Darwinism. And our kneejerk defense, \\"This is science\\", is the image of the core delusion. The problem stretches across ideological boundaries.<br />That said, this is a gripping account in some ways more effective than the others, with the author shouting in your ear, where this particular history in hell is uniquely Dante-esque, almost unbelievable in this skewering blast of contempt.	2002-11-02
1360541:US	50592435	R1K107EY6914NX	0742511669	671581481	Karl Marx: The Burden of Reason (Why Marx Rejected Politics and the Market)	Books	5	6	12	N	N	Embedded rationality, Spinozistic immanence	This is a surprise book, an A1 treatment of the Marx legacy from multiple perspectives by a critic. Just as Darwin's theory shows its flaws better to a skeptical critic, so here we are well served by a non-marxist who is nonetheless both sympathetic and well-versed in multiple confusing aspects of the sprawling traditon. Worth the price of the book (and the book would be worth reading even for a rabid Hayekian) is the treatment of the sources of Marx's dialectic, beside Marx's slender reading, actually, of Hegel's texts. The author tracts down the significant importance of the lesser known text, The History of Philosophy (not The Philosophy of History). The confusion over dialectic, and other matters, has gone on ad infinitum, one hopes to reach closure finally on this waste of mental energy that has made a demented muddle of the entire history of the left. This is but one of the many issues thoroughly researched, viz. the question of Marx on markets, and property. But the opening theme invokes one of the subtlest aspects of the Marx corpus, the issue of 'embedded rationality', as this passes via Hegel, with roots in Spinoza, in a gesture toward the historical enigma now filtered out of our understanding by postivitistic Darwinism. The great irony in such a skeptical treatment is the very clarity of this presentation surprisingly shows us something that has endured in Marx, which is, precisely this 'instinct' for the 'embedded rationality' of historical evolution. Such a statement is heresy in the age of Darwin, but the plain fact of the matter is that Marx's version of this Spinozistic theme has been lost to our contemporary understanding, a point unwittingly exposed by the exceptional clear treatment of the subject. We can see why Marx balked at Darwin, but was unable to quite resist the coming tide of Darwinian false thinking. Later Marxism simply lost this component of Marx's insight as it embraced Darwinian thinking, which is entirely antagonistic to themes of this sort, witness the diatribes, and confusion of S.J.Gould. But surely here Marx has a deeper insight, yet even his followers have lost him and are not even make use of their own tradition. Students of Marx<br />should certainly profit from this fascinating book.this sort, witness the diatribes, and confusion of S.J.Gould. But surely here Marx has a deeper insight, yet even his followers have lost him and are not even make use of their own tradition. Students of Marx <BR>should certainly profit from this fascinating book.	2002-10-28
1360659:US	50592435	R1UQG1R44Z4LYX	1581152582	762635208	The Tragedy of Zionism: How Its Revolutionary Past Haunts Israeli Democracy	Books	5	9	18	N	N	Zionism and Democracy	This a reprint with a new introduction of the 1985 book with its eloquent and penetrating discussion of Zionism and a democratic Israel, as topical now as it was when printed. Tracing the source of the current collisions, especially with respect to 1967, the account attempts to define a democratic context in relation to the extraordinary circumstance of Israel, and to point to the limitations of the Zionist revolutionary idea in this regard. Such a controversial subject is--your move. Nothing changes, and nothing seems to improve, and we see in one generation the poison well of a great tradition, the American government paralyzed, and critics classified as anti-semites. A tragedy includes its endgame, or finale. That has not happened yet. In fact, the tragic hero, wringing his hands in aesthetic torment, stands to reap a windfall, a most profitable comedy.<br />Exeunt omnes.	2002-10-28
1368577:US	50592435	R15XI477021GFB	0375414061	993648498	The Vanishing Voter: Public Involvement in an Age of Uncertainty	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Invisible Men?	This is a good book to read on its own terms, and after _The Right to Vote_ by A. Keyssar. The disastrous slippage of voter participations, after so much struggle to achieve political power, needs the point by point of social analysis given here, and also the context of its overall history. The author explores many factors in the problem, media bias, primaries, the excessive length of campaign process, along with negative tactics by candidates. A southpaw cynic will surely be suspicious there is always some invisible factor of, yes, 'class struggle' in such an outcome, although it is not quite clear how the dynamics operate in this instance. Part of the problem is impotence, hence indifference to the impotence of statistical gestures. Another is the passivity with respect to 'net information' available to the statistical citizen: how many citizesn even know how their system functions? And how many educational systems really convey to citizens this 'how'?<br />Still, the question reamins up in the air, and is in part a function of a greater history. The great experiment in representative democracy is barely two centuries old, and systematically tried for the first time in that regard. Therefore, our stance should be one of studying an outcome in the experiment of democracy rather than its instant creation by a constitution. We may only be in the first stages of this evolution. This work is eloquent on all the issues, and a manual of operations, or at least worry, with respect to a looming crisis of human political freedom.	2002-10-21
1368804:US	50592435	R1Q7OIY6KV7CSS	046502968X	245330332	The Right To Vote: The Contested History Of Democracy In The United States	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Coming of Democracy?	This is a very good history of the right to vote over the course of American history, with some surprises that shouldn't be for those left teary-eyed by the Fourth of July speeches concerning such matters. Democracy has evolved since the beginning of the American experiment, and we should hope that it will continue to do so, to earn its title. Created as a republic in the old-fashioned sense,with conditions of property for eligibility, the slow progression toward 'democracy' begins in the generations after the American Revolution, proceeding briskly yet with severe delimitations, the Civil, Reconstruction, the Second Reconstruction, and the woman's suffrage movement being important by-stations. This account does the job very well of refloatating the shadowy history, ending with a plaintive inspection of the steady retreat of voters from the voting booths. This book could be a useful introduction to the just published book, The Vanishing Voter, and is also, quite apart from its significance for the study of American history, a good companion to the study of the post-Civil War Reconstruction, where the general trend toward democratization actually reversed itself.	2002-10-21
1370626:US	50592435	RJJS1M5RGVK09	0807845574	118212805	Speak Now Against the Day: The Generation Before the Civil Rights Movement in the South (Chapel Hill Books)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Turning Point in the Civil Rights Struggle	A recent work by MacPherson on the battle of Antietam attempts to locate the turning point in the Civil War. Reading this work one wonders if the whole history of abolition is not a series of endless turning points against eternal delays. This very cogent work by someone acquainted with the facts is an invaluable expose of how politics actually works in that scarface Uncle Sam's 'democracy' of equals. Giving the history and gritty details of post-Reconstruction politics dominated by the Bourbon elites, it is essential reading for anyone attempting to decipher the legacy of the Civil Rights movement this period prefigures, and starts to anticipate. Histories of Roosevelt's presidency don't always make clear what was going on, and the obstacles he faced. Nor do we quite assess the effect of the Second World War on the economic context behind Jim Crow in its ad infinitum history of domination, political manipulation, and class and racial struggle. We can see the great tide turning in the thirties and forties, as the struggle begins just to recoup the ground lost in the 1870's and after, Lyndon Johnson's voting rights bill a resurrection of the same failed bill of the Redemption era. Out of many issues in this very useful book is a reminder of how Lyndon Johnson, extremely adept in this Lost Cause dominion, was deftly able at the right moment to get the job done, if it has been done. With this history, keep your eyes peeled. We could be far short of 'done'.	2002-10-19
1370629:US	50592435	R31BLNYAW9YHNY	0195135210	436402699	Crossroads of Freedom: Antietam (Pivotal Moments in American History)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Turning Point in Slow Motion	This short work on the battle of Antietam by the author of Battle Cry of Freedom gives a new twist on the mysterious dynamics of the Civil War in terms of ideas of contingency, (including a short reference to such ideas in the biology S.J.Gould). This thesis raises an interesting question, perhaps an undecidable debate, but doesn't interfere with the crisp treatment of this 'turning point' in the great series of losing battles of the North slowing turning into a winning war. Contingency is indeed one aspect of the matter, yet with this great travail in the history of freedom one always sees finally something of an enigma. The whole Civil War, indeed the entire history of abolition, seems like one large turning point waiting on the contingencies of actually getting the job done. The judgement is one of scale. In any case, this account is brief, well-done, and to the point. We find that the conception of the war transforming just here from 'saving the Union' to Emancipation in the emergence as if from a crysallis of the greatly to be hoped for Republic of equals.	2002-10-19
1370658:US	50592435	RWANVRKA7JSLB	0521274354	659521287	Never at Rest: A Biography of Isaac Newton (Cambridge Paperback Library)	Books	5	34	37	N	N	Pebbles on a shore	There are a fair number of Newton biographies, this one is the most comprehensive and thorough, with a full treatment of the development of Newton's scientific and mathematical thought. What is remarkable is how rapidly Newton mastered the essentials of the techniques of his contemporaries, quietly reaching the forefront of knowledge, this in a few years, and without much prior training before his arrival in the world of Cambridge, where he flowered at once despite the almost defunct educational status of this university. The myth, however, of the annus mirabilis needs replacement with the reality of the anni mirabili, next to the near abandonment of mathematics for some years as Newton's concerns passed to encompass something broader than pure physics and his deskdrawer 'calculus' still embedded in geometrical formalisms. The final composition of the Principia in the wake of the coaxing forth of De Motu is grounds for thunderous applause for Halley who had the presence of mind to grasp who he was dealing with and the politic manner needed to communicate/negotiate with the reclusive prime mover of theory. His great work complete Newton is off to rescue the coinage at the Royal Mint,thence to the forgettable episodes of the priority quarrel with Leibniz. This work is slow but superb on all aspects of Newton's life.	2002-10-19
1370965:US	50592435	R1QRTPMY2SVK5G	0671867423	534494015	Lincoln at Gettysburg: The Words That Remade America	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The moment of reckoning	This work is a fascinating compendium and sideline to any study of the Civil War in general and the outcome of battle of Gettysburg in particular, with some background on the full event behind Lincoln's celebrated address: a very short speech by Lincoln followed the very long oration by Everett, one of the most famous orators of his day, and a scholar steeped in the classics of rhetoric. The ironic symmetry of the moment, as Lincoln caps a two hour speech, with a few paragraphs piercing to the heart of the matter at hand, has a rugged elegance and seems to confer on the scene a Demosthenean grandeur.<br />The book includes the full text of Everett's oration beside the various versions of the Lincoln's address.	2002-10-19
1378507:US	50592435	R1Z9W9E27CI6K0	048661879X	309947972	Introduction to Vector and Tensor Analysis (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Einstein also needed a tensor analysis coach	This non-descript chestnut from Dover books is actually a good amateur's 'alibaba' entry to Tensor Analysis, with a short exposition of General Relavity at the end. Don't be put off by Experts, one reviewer suggests Spivak on Differential Manifolds. Please! sneak into the subject armed with a sharp pencil, a sheaf of paper, and write out the tensors sans the summation convention. Tensors look humungous, and Christoffel tensors _are_ humungous, but the subject will yield to a few weeks of concentrated scratchpad figuring. The book actually requires the basics of vector analysis, a la the stuff in most electro-mag texts. From there you can take a flying leap into this neverneverland where there were supposed to be only twelve people who understood the subject. Not actually that bad. The grand finale shows us the grand spacetime metric, which looks a bit like ye olde Pythagorean Theorem all over again, this time in grand style. Fun book to rummage through. Save Spivak and differential geometry for dessert.	2002-10-13
1386538:US	50592435	RZNQO8A52I21N	073820143X	589019468	Isaac Newton: The Last Sorcerer (Helix Books)	Books	5	1	4	N	N	The Philosopher 's Pebble (? Hint,  calculus= pebble)	This is a a well-done and brisk short account of the Newton saga, whose title suggests, beside the account of the scientist, the man rediscovered by Keynes, the 'obsessive driven mystic', the alchemist who shouldn't be the great founder of material science, but was, midst the curious incidents, never elucidated, of the Rosicrucians of those times and days. One must doubt if Newton is the last sorcerer, at least among those attempting this occult quagmire, whose mysteries are either no mysteries at all, or else mysteries even more muddled by the esotericists, than the scientists, whose probably correct response is no doubt simple rejection. The problem is that we are victims of Newton's great success, and are rationally incapable of either understanding the real source of our science, or else prone to the driven mysticism so many New Age movements have regurgitated in response to Newtonian scientism and its bogus psychologism, or else the Darwin joke about man's evolution.<br />The mysterious irony is that Newton was not a party to what he is the source of. It is virtually hopeless thus for the scientific mind to grapple with their prime founder who never confused his theory of physics with suchwise delusions as pass for the current account of man, or Man, alchemist or not. Perhaps this irascible wonder, more steeped in theology and the occult than in his tossed-off method of fluxions (which he could barely bring himself to make public), had a premonition of what was to come. It is right for modern science to press the reset button attempt a fast getaway from the confusions of hermeticism. They do, as with Newton, create obsessive mystic delusions. Yet we must pause in wonder that, of all people, Newton was the most wary, and that the result of his science was to be the notably false and limited conception of man to come in an age of behavioristic scientism. It is a mysterious sermon, and one the Romantic poets, Rousseau, Kant, and others, heard as the undercurrent of this prodigious mechanization of the world picture, whose final outcome will be postmodernist or postpostmodernist revolt. What therefore is the 'source' of this clever mystery (please don't say 'hermetic esotericism', even the Pharaohs thought it nonsense). Remember old Socrates, 'these natural scientists keep claiming to know what they don't know, and the modern robot seeks his 'source-ery' once again, til the last sorcerer.<br />Good balanced account.this prodigious mechanization of the world picture, whose final outcome will be postmodernist or postpostmodernist revolt. What therefore is the 'source' of this clever mystery (please don't say 'hermetic esotericism', even the Pharaohs thought it nonsense). Remember old Socrates, 'these natural scientists keep claiming to know what they don't know, and the modern robot seeks his 'source-ery' once again, til the last sorcerer.<BR>Good balanced account.	2002-10-06
1386936:US	50592435	R2DIK51W1PAPJU	0738203408	337159473	Drawing the Line: Science and the Case for Animal Rights	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Drawing the line, Is 'man' yet Man?	The argument in this book, and in accompaniement with the author's earlier Rattling the Cage, is of tremendous importance and deserves heartfelt endorsement at step one before examining some possible difficulties in the probing analysis of man--as much as the animal. To become human, ironically, requires the compassion of real men, and more the understanding of what constitutes man's will, and therefore the earliest signs and prophecies of man in the animal realm, where the same dilemma is shown by author to confront the chimpanzee, and other threshold creatures. There the mirror of our autonomy, or lack of it, challenges the mystery of the animal in ourselves. This work breaks new ground in the sense that it explores the narrower realm of the grey zone between autonomy and true self-consciousness as the ground of right, beside the broader argument proposed by such as Singer where the basic issue is simply the question, 'do animals suffer'.<br />The definition of human autonomy is a dangerous precipice that might exclude man, and thence we should in some wonder and caution see the plight of creatures as much in ourselves. It is a critical point since the Nietzschean theme concealed behind social politics is far stronger in history than we suspect, with the consequence that man has himself suffered the condemnation and peril that his is still animalistic.<br />If I have one problem here with the argument it is that the author's assumptions about Darwinism confuse the issue,perhaps. Evolution, as an idea, has taught us to see the continuum between man and animal. And that is to be applauded next to the confusions of some aspects of the Christian tradition with its arrogance about man. But as a theory, more restricted than the perception of evolution, Darwinism cannot establish the nature of man's consciousness or autonomy in a zone beyond the reductionist, and ascribes the very cruelties of nature to the mechanism of evolution, a proposition that has become dogma and yet is probably false. We must renew the question, how did man evolve, and how will he bring forth his latent autonomy. Then the plight of 'mere creatures' will become transparent. Since this is also a legal question, in the life and death matter of drawing the line, we should ask if Darwinist thinking as to selectionist will stand up in court. We cannot make this excuse for conflictual extinction exempt from examination, in such legal discourse.<br />What is the basis for establishing right at all in the competition of species, if natural selection is taken in such confused fashion as the source of ethical or conscious advance. The argument here in the book tends to collate two realms of discourse. Otherwise a superb effort.<br />I recommend wrestling with this argument, beside the more general stance of the compassionate embrace of all forms of sentient life as one. The author's novelties are both ambitious and fruitful.<br />Simply doing that much, will 'throw light' on the obscurity of our thinking in this travail of all sentient life. That causes change, slowly but surely.t is probably false. We must renew the question, how did man evolve, and how will he bring forth his latent autonomy. Then the plight of 'mere creatures' will become transparent. Since this is also a legal question, in the life and death matter of drawing the line, we should ask if Darwinist thinking as to selectionist will stand up in court. We cannot make this excuse for conflictual extinction exempt from examination, in such legal discourse. <BR>What is the basis for establishing right at all in the competition of species, if natural selection is taken in such confused fashion as the source of ethical or conscious advance. The argument here in the book tends to collate two realms of discourse. Otherwise a superb effort. <BR>I recommend wrestling with this argument, beside the more general stance of the compassionate embrace of all forms of sentient life as one. The author's novelties are both ambitious and fruitful. <BR>Simply doing that much, will 'throw light' on the obscurity of our thinking in this travail of all sentient life. That causes change, slowly but surely.	2002-10-05
1388739:US	50592435	R2H4AFV8XESVW5	0029051908	112977941	In the Presence of the Creator: Isaac Newton and His Times	Books	5	1	2	N	N	By the method of fluxions...	Although not very detailed on the scientific aspects of Newton's work, this biography places him very well in his historic period, where we find a tadpole spectacle-between two worlds--of an age in transition, and the arch-innovator, shaking the foundations. That said, and the tale makes it clear, Newton was still very much a man of another age, if not another world, and we can also forget his discretion towards what he had achieved, never mistaking it for a complete metaphysical system. The theologian competes with the tinkerer turned blazingly sharp intuiter of the method of fluxions. The issue is important because the monumental genius of his deed tends to induce imitation in the sciences to come, but this never suceeds, for a reason Newton might have found obvious as he expended a majority of his labors poring over theological and alchemical treatises. I shan't further, as is my wont, crack jokes about 'mad scientists'. Newton was the real McCoy, and so much more compellingly fascinating than the caricature. We might learn his system of the world, but never grasp the 'system' of his mind, where sanity and madness integrate as a mystery. The depiction in the book of the world of Newton's England, Cambridge, and in the period of a classic political passage, leaves only wonder at the pinnacle of accomplishment starting from such rough-scrabble beginnings.	2002-10-03
1396465:US	50592435	R3AJEIGMQZGJD8	0195037332	182608272	Slavery and Human Progress (Galaxy Books)	Books	5	9	16	N	N	The Enigma of Abolition	This work could be taken as a reflection on and/or conclusion to the author's previous two well-known classic works on slavery and poses the paradox lurking in all ideas of progress applied to historical analysis. The book shows history's answer, one that historians perhaps fail to see. The place of the slavery is human history is so endemic that we are left with the question of why toward the end of the eighteenth century forces for its abolition appeared and within several generations more or less succeeded in its overcoming. It is not a question we should leave to the Hegels of this world, come on Historians.<br />This book cogently addrresses the core issue and orbits around it, and would make a good ending to a perusal of the author's lead-up texts, along with some of the literature cited on the slavery debate, which the book reviews, to some extent. The idea of progress is out of fashion, which makes the issue seem less significant to postmodern indifference, yet the ambiguity here lingers as a challenge to our notions of 'what drives history'.<br />In part, the paradoxes of historical progress springs from the inadequacy of our historiography which is either some teleological historicism or some derivative of the anti-progressivism of Darwinian evolution. In that context, the puzzle of slavery and abolition remains stubbornly mysterious. This work gives us a 'good question' whose answer would constitute a true 'universal history'.	2002-09-26
1402037:US	50592435	R3PRZ7OTCMQYP4	0312253672	492425611	All on Fire: William Lloyd Garrison and the Abolition of Slavery	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Union and the coming of disunion	This excellent biography of Garrison seems to unlock one of the enigmas of both abolition and the Civil War, where the attempt to preserve the Union led to the abolition of slavery. But we might backtrack to the generation of the heroic abolitionists, among them the completely consistent and unwavering Garrison whose platform on disunion is one of the key steps in the mystery of opposites here.<br />The tale is told in fine grain of a very remarkable one-pointed focus by one who did not compromise and yet outlasted all those who did. From his humble beginnings as an apprentice printer til the suspension of the Liberator after eighteen hundred issues in 1865 we have the portrait of one who brought about real social change, yet was almost marginalized near the end, as the harvest of his labours was achieved.<br />Even if we are secularists, we should tip our hats to these agitator Christians who had the presence of mind to see the obvious in a culture where everyohne else was out in left field and even the Northern states were racist and seened to resist every step of the way.	2002-09-21
1404113:US	50592435	R2SM8C4CP8ELNB	0684835657	44281687	The SLAVE TRADE: THE STORY OF THE ATLANTIC SLAVE TRADE: 1440 - 1870	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Let history begin	The record of civilization is haunted by the dread percentage: the largest percentage of its overall duration saw the domination of slavery. Its seemingly endless persistence and relatively sudden abolition reminds us that the 'way things are' is not an argument for the 'way things should be', and that injustice persists in part because our thinking is flawed Thomas' work is a very well-researched account of modern slavery from the fifteen century until its final overthrow in the nineteenth. Although much of Northern Europe was close to seeing salvery dying out in the medieval period its endemic existence as a constant and sudden last phase in the rise of capitalism can be traced backwards via the Portuguese voyages of discovery, as this initiated the last centuries of the disastrous and maleficent Atlantic trade to the Americas. This work is quite comprehensive as to the facts, without commentary. The suddenness of the abolition period is sometimes ascribe to the emergence of the capitalist system, yet there seems to be something missing in that account. Did Rousseau denunciation spring from questions of economic efficiency. The history of slavery seems always an account of men mesmerized by their worlds, finding its evils the basis of phantom normality, men without a history as automatons in their blindness. We inherit the labors of those who woke up to history to let it at last begin. Very useful account at nine hundred pages.	2002-09-19
1405464:US	50592435	R2YV3DMNIGJ2M1	1573929107	623754891	Heidegger and the Ideology of War: Community, Death, and the West	Books	5	4	9	N	N	Kultur vs Zivilization?	Doing justice to Heidegger can be difficult, but this book would not be rough justice, as it zooms into the context of the World War as this produced not just a war but the mobilization of ideologies. Here the fate of the classic discourse of culture and civilization seems funerary, at best. But it is a sophisticated philosophical funeral. 'War fever' is a simpler term for the psychology. The tragic irony of the reversal of the terms 'culture' and 'civilization', in all the Splengerian idiocies of 'culture as tough talk' given the original moral intent of the distinction, is transparent, yet a enigma in a philosopher such as Heidegger who describes this reification even as he succumbs to it. This book provides an important snapshot for anyone textually focussed wishing to desmerize, where the plight of metaphysical profundity turning into the quagmire de profundis. Oswald Spengler seems better adapted to these lurid falls. But the evidence speaks for itself.	2002-09-18
1409666:US	50592435	RQ6NE3ZIF76R	0226852571	354844773	Being after Rousseau: Philosophy and Culture in Question	Books	5	4	13	N	Y	Descent of humans	As I picked up this book, I thought of having read an account of pirates on the river Euphrates in Sumerian times, and the constant disruption of the new agriculture with its immense potential, the crisis of the Neolithic giving birth to the State Yet this beginning as a breakthrough to 'freedom in the State', dread phrase, the incident of middle passage from some unknown 'state of nature', is ambiguous, for its recursions, as middle passage, the 'births of the state', produce the phenomenon of Empire, the Assyrian endgame. It is counterpoint to a next 'beginning', the great Axial age of religion, science, philosophy born, notably the birth from renewed republics of democracy in the Greek world, beside the implicit `freedom from history and empire' in the  parallel Judaic, at the fringes of empires spawned in the original Mesopotamian field. And the rising tide of slavery, like a progressive disease, coexists with these births of `civilization' unable to check its force.  If the figure of Rousseau is controversial, the source of contradictory gestures, it is because he grapples with the new beginning of the modern in terms of its true inherited contradictions, two opposites taken at once, in some version of a dialectic, the opposite chords of the word 'freedom', in a age about to bifurcate into libertarian and collectivist extremes.<br />No mystery then that Rousseau should protest something amiss in the progressions of the state. It long term `evolution' toward mechanization interrupted with new beginnings of freedom is a riddle to confound our `noble savage'. Even in his generation a great birth, or rebirth, of ideas of freedom is occurring, and his tussle with the real concepts before they become slogans is both the signature of his creative genius, and the source of the many wild pitches that have haunted his reputation, even now the object of attack.  Nor is it surprising that this duality should give rise to some sort of distinction between civilization and culture, which is the starting point of Richard Velkley's most interesting and very acute Being After Rousseau. This distinction, after Nietzsche, Spengler, and Heidegger, seems almost unrecognizable, but invokes the realm of ... freedom in the individual bound in his civilization. The book opens with two questions: What is the being called the \\"philosopher\\"? What is the relation of the philosopher to something called \\"culture\\"? And there is a challenge to the foundations of both. And his epigram to the Introduction quotes from The Social Contract, \\"The great soul of the Lawgiver is the true miracle which must prove his mission\\". Beside our late philosopher-king we have the individualist and citizen vagrant of the early discourses whose challenge to the Enlightenment is a counterpoint, to deepen it. If Rousseau is the Newton of the mind, perhaps Newton is the Rousseau of physics, for we forget that he exempts the human will from his system of laws. This gesture indicates an understanding the coming scientism will lose, and the problem of human self, wholeness, and purpose Rousseau senses, Kant elaborates, and which German philosophy from Fichte to Heidegger will attempt to resolve.  The ambiguity of some transcendental order confounds the need to find the true beginning of culture in the spontaneity of human freedom and creativity, the inner `lawgiver'. The echo in Kant transforms the question, and reaches a peak in the challenge to the transcendent and the metaphysics of self, in the mystery of the ground of its own being, as the logic and categories and their condition in the \\"I\\" of apperception. And Kant will find beyond the enigma of the `...self' the connection to the realm of art, and the teleological, in the antinomies of the causal. Beside his conservative critics, Rousseau is now challenged by the sociobiologists in a notable attempt to recast man's emergence with theories of evolution. But at the point where the ethical is to be reduced to the mechanism of natural selection, Rousseau remains stubbornly relevant to the core issue of historical evolution in the descent of man, for the standard Darwinian account resumes the deadlock before the somesuch distinction of civilization and culture. The terms might confuse here, for the distinction of man as creature and man as `civilized' at all would be but an earlier version of this search for the component of culture. And that puts Rousseau into the ring with Darwin very directly. Rousseau is an early evolutionist, what more can be said. The component of evolution, as history, is however the missing dilemma of the whole question, although Kant in his brilliant series of Critiques arrives in his third at the issue of teleology, whose component once again is both social or historical and individual. The question of history is thus unresolved, even as repeatedly addressed,  although Kant with his `idea for a universal history' provides the rubric or question to see the resolution as the very preoccupation with `new beginnings' in the `middle passage', the rise of the modern being one of its most recent incidents, and these `poets' its implicit lawgivers. `What is Enlightenment' is both a psychological and an historical question. Indeed the discourse peaks with Kant, and we see in Heidegger, strange golum finding the hidden ring, a looking backward, and an extreme version with one deep insight, the connection to the moment of the birth of philosophy, and the beginningless Being. His complaint that we reify these `gifts' of nature provokes the need for this universal history, and the missing chard Schelling so wishes to elicit from a new metaphysics. Will this be our fate, as we discard the metanarrative of these lawgivers, and their tour de force?<br />This is a highly challenging and valuable work, and braves the impossible of such differing thinkers seen in sequence. One could only complain of the incompletion of the more Herculean effort to treat Hegel, Schopenhauer, and the full scope of this philosophic mystery. One can only be thankful what is offered.tural selection, Rousseau remains stubbornly relevant to the core issue of historical evolution in the descent of man, for the standard Darwinian account resumes the deadlock before the somesuch distinction of civilization and culture. The terms might confuse here, for the distinction of man as creature and man as `civilized' at all would be but an earlier version of this search for the component of culture. And that puts Rousseau into the ring with Darwin very directly. Rousseau is an early evolutionist, what more can be said. The component of evolution, as history, is however the missing dilemma of the whole question, although Kant in his brilliant series of Critiques arrives in his third at the issue of teleology, whose component once again is both social or historical and individual. The question of history is thus unresolved, even as repeatedly addressed,  although Kant with his `idea for a universal history' provides the rubric or question to see the resolution as the very preoccupation with `new beginnings' in the `middle passage', the rise of the modern being one of its most recent incidents, and these `poets' its implicit lawgivers. `What is Enlightenment' is both a psychological and an historical question. Indeed the discourse peaks with Kant, and we see in Heidegger, strange golum finding the hidden ring, a looking backward, and an extreme version with one deep insight, the connection to the moment of the birth of philosophy, and the beginningless Being. His complaint that we reify these `gifts' of nature provokes the need for this universal history, and the missing chard Schelling so wishes to elicit from a new metaphysics. Will this be our fate, as we discard the metanarrative of these lawgivers, and their tour de force? <BR>This is a highly challenging and valuable work, and braves the impossible of such differing thinkers seen in sequence. One could only complain of the incompletion of the more Herculean effort to treat Hegel, Schopenhauer, and the full scope of this philosophic mystery. One can only be thankful what is offered.	2002-09-14
1411958:US	50592435	RYFH7JDWD1EAV	0815410433	689629132	Occupation: The Ordeal of France 1940-1944	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Road from Verdun	This work by the author of the recent Road to Verdun is in someways a natural continuation of that account, as is Alex Horne's To Lose a Battle next to The Price of Glory, also about Verdun. It is one tale, German and French, from the Franco-Prussian War to the period of the Occupation. The book details the ironic reversals of strategic expectation, the impact of the new mobile technology, the swift defeat of France and the onset of the somber hellishness of the German occupation with its unexpectedly barbarous Hitlerian cast that perverted even further the tragedy of defeat.	2002-09-11
1412537:US	50592435	R3AV2QAJFK5AFO	0786705108	937039882	Faust's Metropolis: A History of Berlin	Books	5	3	9	N	N	Let the man go, purgatory for Faust	This is a swashbuckling whole shebang account of moden Germany in a Berlin track-mind, long, yet fast, and is a good backdrop to the military history of the World Wars. The good detail piles up and the book gets better towards the second half, and was especially interesting from the inter-war period onward, with short but to the point snapshot accounts of the rise of Hitler after the cultural overdrive of the Twenties. It is good to zoom in for close detail, and then zoom out to keep the pace moving, given such a long range. That the book does. And that detail tells it best, sometimes in chilling fashion.  Goethe or Marlowe's Faust. You be the judge.	2002-09-11
1414355:US	50592435	RK5B91AAK13IQ	0684853396	977410269	Day of Deceit: The Truth About FDR and Pearl Harbor	Books	5	19	35	N	N	Decades of disinformation	It would seem the rumours on this issue are now settled by this important book whose evidence of prior knowldege, more deliberative use of that knowledge, of the preparations and finally attack of the Japanese on Pearl Harbor is hard to question. I think the mind of the reader and the mind of the politician may fail to intersect properly, therefore a simple reading of the data is indicated, prior to jumping to conclusions about Roosevelt and Churchill. Condemnation and/or justification are too glib in both cases.<br />I am none the less struck by the powers of propaganda of the American system. It succeeds where ruthless tyrants become textbook cases of ideological brainwashing.<br />Important and essential info.	2002-09-09
1424375:US	50592435	R3RHAB7VMKMJXQ	067976285X	999389113	The Decision to Use the Atomic Bomb	Books	5	19	36	N	N	The Momentum of Martial Logic	Although the issue remains controversial it is important to consider the historical background given here for the decision to drop the bomb. After the account here it is impossible to take conventional wisdom for granted here. 'What might have been' has been rendered implausible by a series of mental images of the 'fanatic homeland defense' scenario, which was never tested and under suspicion of being wrong. Indeed, the available facts show that diplomats at the time expected Japanese surrender without the atomic option. To say nothing of the reservations of the scientists involved. If Admiral Leahy and Eisenhower saw fit to break ranks here in the years after the war, we can be sure something is awry here. This book amply shows the what's what. Very important case, and the manipulation of the 'myth' is as upsetting as the details of the emergence of the decision.	2002-08-30
1426537:US	50592435	R1J2IY2G0R2F99	067119030X	224273411	Dare Call It Treason	Books	5	9	9	N	N	&quot;A Bas La Guerre!&quot; -- Mutiny in the trenches	One might or might not agree on the author's take, reasonable in any case, on politics here, but this work is a good account of France during World War I (and before) with a blunt perspective and some of the facts that don't make it into story book accounts. The description of the mutiny in the trenches by the French soldiers is especially interesting, and, while no doubt not the last word, does actually mention this quite important subject! It is significant the left often bypasses this material, perhaps because of the history of the Kronstadt mutiny. It is not coincidence the Bolshevik revolution was one wildcard in the situation.<br />It is also clear that this 'mutiny', like a strike, did accomplish, to some degree, its purpose, and the efforts of Petain to restore order more than yielded on many of the key issues. A host of fascinating details, such as the drunken stupor pervading trench warfare, as an ingredient of acquiescence, to say nothing of the mutiny itself, where this backfired, to say the least. The 'poilus' could see what the generals simply could not see, the obvious absurdity of the 'over the top' strategies.<br />Acerbic and well worth adding to a list of books in this field.	2002-08-28
1427476:US	50592435	R1R82IKA8IW92B	1840222077	755689307	Passchendaele (Wordsworth Military Library)	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Missing in action, no dog tags	This is an older account of this famous, or infamous, battle and acute in its description of this classic ultimate as a quagmire, beyond even Verdun, but more so in its indirect critique, from a military historian, hang the stiff upper lip. Perhaps this is the most horrendous action of them all, in the major league of battles in the wasteland, World War I style. What I find remarkable is the picture of the English numero uno general Haig, known to me from picture book photographs, but not known to me as a general, and a most flawed one, whose tactics betray the core obtuseness of the military tacticians of this era, with a studied indifference or inability to grasp, or even visit to see, the hell they created in abstractions. Even Lloyd George, stuck with him, had become restive at his gallant notions of cavalry charges applied to this inferno of the artillery, where a hundred thousand ended up 'missing', no dog tags for the archaeologists of mud. All that was gained, a few kilometers, was lost, or regained and lost again, and two thirds of the way through I found my normal sense of loyalty yielding to innovations in political philsophy, the 'right' of mutiny, perhaps the right and duty, for indifferent generals in luxurious castles, adding the forces of attack deserve no such battles, til finally, by the end, I was browsing the maps, what route might a deserter take from all this? Of course, as the author notes, this battle was, in a final note of its unforgiving nature, the evidence for much pacifism, even during the coming of the Thirties rearmaments, converging toward another war.	2002-08-27
1427694:US	50592435	R37R3TY4S8G06K	0385503938	17381091	The Road to Verdun: World War I's Most Momentous Battle and the Folly of Nationalism	Books	5	15	20	N	N	Moonscape of the patriots	This new account of the battle of Verdun (cf. Alistair Horne's The Price of Glory) and its place in the warfare of World War I is not comprehensively detailed in its battlefield account (perhaps usefully so) but extremely good at the overall context, history since the era of 1870 and the Franco-Prussian war, and the mood, general tenor, and nationalistic mystique that mesmerized the defense of the great fort. It is disconcerting to consider abandoning Verdun in a step backward to the nearby rear terrain might have proven a better vantage and have saved lives. But the reflex to defend the 'symbol' at all costs, and a very steep cost at that, was overwhelming, and finally successful--in winning back some few squares miles of cratered moonscape. The strange character of this battle is its lack of definition, beginning with the ambiguous lack of direct objectives of the German Falkenhayn whose tactic seems to have been to send men over the top, merely to bleed the enemy through attrition. The author also brings out the issue of the Social Darwinism of the times, although, as all too often, letting Darwin's theory off the hook. There is little distinction between 'Social Darwinism' and 'Darwinism' in its shadowy background influence on the tenor of a whole generation. The description of the troops on the march returning meeting the troops arriving, along the Voie Sacree, tells the tale, the ghosts of the trenches, in a Verdun book of the dead.	2002-08-27
1439096:US	50592435	R39HHK8NPSFIXW	0140170413	803838595	The Price of Glory: Verdun 1916	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The ends of history, to the last man	I read this by happenstance, not realizing that it was something of a classic. But I thought it must be after reading it, and after reading the author's The Fall of Paris, advertised on the backjacket, about the end of Napoleon III's regime, and the Commune. One could recommend the two books together, as the legacy of the first Franco-Prussian war is too obviously echoed in the First World War, and the tenacity of the French, particularly as seen at Verdun. It is hard to grasp the logic of these First World War generals, now, and the tale here shows the inability of them all to ever really achieve insight into the stalemated circumstances they found themselves in. Perhaps, in the light of later technology, that is too easy a judgement. Fortunately someone offstage was about to invent the tank. The account is effective for zooming in on one battle series, a better first snapshot of this war than the high level accounts, which don't quite touch the poignancy behind the statistics.<br />For the &quot;Great&quot; War, it is hard to do better.	2002-08-16
1447305:US	50592435	R2B5L3Z63M8WON	0195148304	704635275	In Darwin's Shadow: The Life and Science of Alfred Russel Wallace: A Biographical Study on the Psychology of History	Books	5	3	14	N	N	Delicate arrangements	This an important and readable contribution to the biographical lore of Alfred Wallace, the co-discoverer with Darwin of the selectionist theory of evolution, and later a dissenter on the question of the descent of man, both theoretically and in relation to his interest in Spiritualism. Although I differ considerably in perspective, the book is well worth reading and interesting and useful even to a critic of Darwin.<BR>It also contains compelling 'for the defense' material (Darwin's, not Wallace's) on the controversy-debate over the priority question of Wallace and Darwin and the 'delicate arrangement' to use the phrase of Leonard Huxley and the title of A.Brackman's book by that name. Shermer's response to the charges of Brackman (and also Brooks in _Just Before the Origins_) is a needed analytical rejoinder from a Darwinist, whether successful or not remains open. The question of divergence and plagiarism seems partly settled, but still it is all fishy. And is it the real strategy of our Wallace biographer to rescue Darwin? <BR>Even if the specific charges made by Brackman and Brooks, and it is an if, were found untrue, the fact remains that something is strange in the whole episode. As noted by Brooks, there is the more general question of Darwin's great delay in publishing his work. If we are confirmed Darwinists, this is one thing. But if we realize that the theory of selectionism, as Wallace finally realized, is not the full picture, we should wonder if Darwin was unconsciously unsure of his own theory, prodded only under duress to 'out with it'. His strategy would be obvious in that case. <BR> Does it all matter if Darwin's theory is in fact not a true or complete theory of evolution? Surely, the theory is a strange case of 'why people believe weird things' and call their superstition about natural selection 'science',and why this snowball effect created by Darwin's book over a mechanism of evolution a host of dissenters found obviously wrong, a process continuing to this day in spite of the immense rigidity of social conditioning on the matter. <BR>Here we have missed the point of Wallace, altogether. For he realized finally there was a problem. <BR>In the final analysis, Darwinists have remained blind in their dogmatic mythology of Darwin's achievement, and we should be more attentive to the fact that the man in the 'shadow of Darwin', Wallace, the co-discoverer, finally shares a dialectical symmetry of dissent in the account of the descent of man. To shunt Wallace aside here is a strategy of the paradigm defenders, and it is Wallace who will be vindicated in the end. For he saw all too clearly that there was something extra required to account for man's evolution, and said so in no uncertain terms. That this must be a spiritual exception is not the issue, and Wallace's naivete does not change his important insight. <BR>This has been confused by the issue of Spiritualism, whose silliness does not gainsay the issue that Darwin's theory is as silly in reverse on the fundamentals of man's evolutionary consciousness. But we are not required to accpet Darwinian claims as absolute.  It is apt, however, for Shermer, our Mr. Skeptic, to rub his hands here and get to work, although I think the positivism of the age of Darwin requires a similar kind of analysis.In a world of millennia of Buddhists, Shermer's contempt for belief in reincarnation, for example, is simpply science provincialism. We have no means to decide these issues, using Darwin's positivist fairytale.<BR><BR>The book also has entwined material on the issue of the science of history, factor analysis in biography, and references to the work of Sulloway. I think Shermer's claim that we have found a science of history is open to some raised eye-brows, and the issue of Diamond's _Guns, Germs, and Steel_ taken as such simply throws the whole matter into doubt. <BR>Wallace deserves many perspectives, this one from a severe Darwinist is both a welcome attempt to bringhim back into view, and a subtle effort to keep him in his place.<BR>There is a funny joke here, if you stand back and look at the strangeness of it all, as Darwin's endless delay and the synchronity of Wallace's extra-ordinary finish line catch up set the theory into its dialectical jitters right at the onset. Poetic justice, perhaps.	2002-08-09
1448204:US	50592435	R3GMCGS50J4BRE	0316484199	455814038	Tom Paine: A Political Life	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Yankee Doodle, the quintessence, a dandy	Crackerjack biography of Old Tom (Paine) in the four stages of his life, from his early years in England til Ben Franklin advises him to reach America, the period of _Common Sense_ and the American Revolt, then the _Rights of Man_ and the French Revolution, and finally his return to America, where the reputation of the _Age of Reason_ caught up with him, and his great early popularity was replaced with the jibes of those in a suddenly religious republic, whose liberties were won by more secular sorts (cf. Gordon Wood's book on the Revolution, such as Paine. It is a sad ending to a magnificent tale for a true champion of freedom, one who brought the democratic idea to a republican experiment in constitutions. The phenomenal nature of the sales of his books, whose profits he renounced in the name of his cause, is an episode almost world-historical in its seminal influence. Paine's trek is also a classic snapshot of the 'classic' liberal in his revolutionary phase, and the subtleties of great tomes politcal philosophy seem prefigured in the sheer horse-sense of this man who saw the gist of it all, and somehow at a glance. Witness his instinctive in the spectral course of the French Revolution from the Girondins to the Terror to the dungeons, which he survived. It may finally be that his reputation has recovered at last its nineteenth century shadows where the truest of patriots was consigned.	2002-08-08
1458075:US	50592435	R1AIO7T4101TXX	0486671216	703811428	Abstract Algebra and Solution by Radicals	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Roots (as in square roots)	This charming little introit to abstract algebra is keyed on a theme of the algebraic equation, and the discovery of the insolubility of the quintic. This includes the history and final plight of the circle-squarers, and some of the history of Galois and Abel, working heroically and heuristically in the early nineteenth century without the recent easier access to the subject now available.<br />All math is divided into three parts, analysis, algebra, and topology and abstract algebra is no doubt abstract, but less so than analysis, and shows the beautiful hidden sructure behind number systems, from monkey-see monkey-do to counting on your fingers, to the square root of minus one and beyond. The progression from simple groups, to rings, and fields and the rest is a revelation of the complexity behind simple things and it is a pity the educational system cannot bring more to these vistas, where the elegant Galois theory caps the summits. A good book to amateurize with, and with a good mouse-hole entry for a look-see to the ultra-clever Galois theory. Superb.	2002-07-30
1458645:US	50592435	R2QN3NISNBO80U	0786706600	11660788	Napoleon III: A Life	Books	5	0	3	N	N	First as tragedy, then as farce	It is interesting to read a biography of the Napoleon III after one on the First for the tales are really the same tale of prempted republics and celebrity families with their predations of revolutionary changes, as the ghost of hybrid reactionaries stalks the legacy of the new bourgeoisie. The result here is a sort of hors d'oeuvre for Marx's classic Eighteen Brumaire, \\"Hegel observes somewhere that all great incidents, and individuals of history occur, as it were, twice. He forgot to add: the first time as tragedy, the second as farce\\". Napoleon Louis' takeover of the republican hopes of 1848 was, however, a species of sly cleverness that shows no dunce even as the outcome, as the second Empire, is barren of result (although a kind of rancid liberalism and never fulfilled sympathy with the goals of revolution is characteristic of all the Napoleons, if only as a celebrity mystique). A strange sort of daydream, the disguised persistence of the ancient regime in Mayr's phrase of his book by that name, one that simples wakes up to reality in a matter of weeks, as the Franco-Prussian War sweeps the fantasy into the dustbin.	2002-07-29
1459291:US	50592435	R1LGCMCA8ZGTKH	1559706317	130177848	Napoleon: A Biography	Books	5	1	6	N	N	World Spirit on horseback?	This meticulous chronicle of the drift of Revolution into Empire wastes little time on the Myth, a la Hegel's world spirit on horseback, with an acute portrait of the psychology of the man, who actually was unsentimentally the more extraordinary in the middle of the collosal reversal, in the dramatic sense, of the tragic plot. Although psychoanalyis can derail when applied to history, the occasional touches of Freudian insight in the book are apt and put the account in a keynote of the classic black and white photograph. Military hollywood won't absolve Napoleon to much of a consolidator of the Revolution, even he preempts the shadowy Bourbons and the overhead vultures of reaction. The mystique of the man is belied by the cost of human life in such quixotic escapades with military toys. The human cost puts the Hero in the category of war criminal even as we can see Napoleon was no Stalin like figure, and if anything far too lenient on the subversions of his own camp, among them sly Talleyrand, who very promptly senses the turning point, and deserts the 'winner' turning into a loser. Napoleon the military strategist is carefully followed, and comes in as less than an Alexander, whatever his strategic genius, that simply failed him in the audacity of the monumentally misconceived invasion of Russia, to say nothing of the Egyptian campaign and the guerilla defeat in Spain. The invasion of Russia was such a gross blunder of stepping over the abyss with a half million men and this against the commonsense of all his generals that one is left with a snapshot of a Macbeth.	2002-07-29
1460781:US	50592435	R3CLDYFNAOUN30	006091453X	414092052	Reconstruction (New American Nation Series)	Books	5	6	14	N	N	Another lineage feed the crow?	This is an extremely penetrating, yet low key, history of the reconstructed history of Reconstruction, rescued from the legacy of massive distortion in the century-old genre, beginning in the birth times of Jim Crow and the loss of the hopes of the 'second American Revolution'. All one can say is that it might have been worse, the Union might have sundered. The book details all the phases, good and bad, from the birth of the Klu Klux to the great depression of the seventies, and the loss of focus on the task to be completed.	2002-07-27
1461349:US	50592435	R28JVC4Z7XBED0	0195076060	245616651	Abraham Lincoln and the Second American Revolution	Books	5	2	8	N	N	Positive Liberties	This is an acute uncovering of the concealed revolution in the Civil War era with its great transformation, as the released energy 'under a war footing' accelerated the real evolutionary emergence of the freedom declared but never fulfilled in the age of the Founding Fathers.<br />One of the ironies is that the reification of concepts of revolution can result in confusion,while, here, change happened without the label. It is also true that the last step foundered, and the counterrevolution began and hardened, in the tragic era of reconstruction, leaving still another revolution with an ambiguously sour note.	2002-07-27
1474897:US	50592435	R2ARK8APWXTEJO	0312288565	602904469	The Einstein File: J. Edgar Hoover's Secret War Against the World's Most Famous Scientist	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Unusual suspects	Einstein was a troublemaker, the author informs us at the beginning of this book detailing, armed with the 1800 pages of files released by the FOIA, with Hoover's Albert-paranoia in action, aimed at the great scientist, especially in the years of the Red Scare, McCarthyism, and the Cold War. The public image of the greatest scientist of the twentieth century has been carefully manicured, but behind the teddy bear was a determined activist on many fronts, who fell afoul of not only the Nazis, but of the FBI. Einstein's valiant stands on social justice, racism, antisemitism, war, peace, and the Bomb barely enter public consciousness through the layers of the myth. The record of Hoover's manipulations and skullduggeries is almost pathetic in its pickiun character, next also to its bungling and misinformation. It is, for example, discouraging to watch how Einstein is deprived of security clearance, lest a man with such a reputation and global popularity be, we suspect the motive, able to influence or speak out from the inside on the use of the first atom bomb. The portrait left of the reactionary and racist Hoover at the head of a critical institution pursuing this biased and incomprehending agenda is nothing less than appalling. The portrait of Einstein's deep social concerns (read a triffle 'leftist') in action is the real man, please.	2002-07-15
1477027:US	50592435	R1NQSEFFVDU52N	037540158X	512541409	Lincoln's Virtues: An Ethical Biography	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Cunning of Reason, and for good reason	This excellent pondering sort of biographical portrait pulls away from the revisionist corrections to the mythical Lincoln and restores him to the man of history that he was, a gawky beanstalk from the Hoosier wilds who appeared from nowhere at the right time with a thin resume, when politics as usual was insufficient, a man who could hold an axe at arm's length, self-educated himself by reading and reading, and who didn't really fit predictably into his environment, a stranger in a strange land. This portrait is far better than the mythical version, and makes complete sense, in an historical period we fail to reconstruct in our minds, one in which slavery was still embedded in the constitution and no political speech could manage its PR without reckoning with that now totally bizarre Fact. Change, when it is essential, where change can be impossible, found its man. Is there any more to explain about Lincoln's deft and nearly shifty-eyed unconscious cunning, as he slips past the impossible barrier, emerging after 1854 as the great debater with Douglas, and then against all odds quite suddenly the President on the dread threshold of the most decisive turning point in American history, the day the note came due on the Declaration of Independence. A man for the ages.	2002-07-13
1477926:US	50592435	R888B93Z93UFZ	1586480367	544670642	The Other American : The Life of Michael Harrington	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner	This is a well-honed biography of a man and his persistence in an idea, and the trials of that venture through thick and thin, against all odds. Harrington is a unique witness to the tribulations of real social change,  and the living question, what is the fate of the capitalist circumstance? A persistent critic of the Bolshevik episode, his question endures. He is suddenly revealed here both in his quiet heroism, and as slighly skewed or 'out of phase' with respect to the sudden upsurge of the sixties left, yet his endurance and vision remain at the end as a permanent challenge to a system of overwhelming force, against which easy change is forever substracted. It is this factor in the account that stands out, the studied contrast of the political background, as a prism revealing the reality of liberal politics as it is.	2002-07-12
1478092:US	50592435	R3TCMY2N8SYQOE	0375507469	155280014	Cicero: The Life and Times of Rome's Greatest Politician	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Res Publica	This charming and quite haunting biography of Cicero highlights one of the great moments of historical transition. As the last survivor of the Axial Age's political breakthrough to a first democracy in the Greek world, the Roman Republic, hardly a democracy, endured, and then endured some additional time, and then passed away in the ruin of empire and the oblivion of human freedom. Cicero's resistance and opposition is the most classic gesture of defiance, and this account of the great master of rhetoric going down with the ship is well done, on a subject forever topical, check the news. As the author notes the founders of the American, yes, republic, were steeped in Cicero, and seemed to have picked up where Cicero left off. Excellent tale.	2002-07-12
1481781:US	50592435	R233ZUFKJYTGVP	0393051242	861144841	Globalization and Its Discontents	Books	5	22	30	N	N	Globalization on the high seas	An inside job, this telling account of the contradictions and failures of globalization by one of its discontents, an expert student of political economy, now usually called an 'economist', is in some ways more convincing than the sloganized hysteria analyses of the various anti-globalizatin activists. The author accepts the great potential of a global economy, but is unsparing of the nearsighted policies of neo-liberals, who seem to have forgotten a man like Keynes once rescued their great toy. The sharp critique of the IMF policies is the core of the book, and written from the author's personal experience. The chapter on 'Who lost Russia?' is chilled and very convincing, and brings home the main suggestion, at least to the reviewer, that capitalism has too long enjoyed its antipodal contrast with some 'alternative economic order', such as socialism, for its argument is with itself, and the multiple alternate versions of its realization, many of which are inherently destructive. The example of Russia suggests that abstract fictions of the 'market' are not enough in practice, anymore than pounding the keys of a piano can produce music. Pirates ahoy, some sanity from the crow's nest.	2002-07-09
1494431:US	50592435	R3Q02JNOVOOCGZ	0465061508	59964273	A Problem from Hell: America and the Age of Genocide	Books	5	6	6	N	N	See no evil	This is a penetrating history of the course of twentieth century genocide, including the history of the invention of the neologism by Raphael Lemkin, a Polish Jew who warned about Hitler's designs in the 1930's, but was unheard. The book opens with Lemkin's heroic efforts during and after the war up to his stalking the corridors and cafeterias of all the relevant institutions of the era, especially the UN, attempting to promote a genocide convention, and badgering diplomats to listen. The portrait of his persistence is telling, and is succeeded by the account of Senator Proxmire and his decades of daily speeches on ratification. The book details the at best sluggish, if not inert, response of the United States to all the outbreaks of genocide in the twentieth century, from the Armenian genocide to Kosovo and Rwanda. Diplomats tend to be Sunday school graduates who go on to diplomatic colleges where devoted philosophical study of the principles of Machiavel induce them to do the 'right thing'. The problem is that intervention would cynically be the excuse of empire. But the world has no true international community and we live still in a barbarous age dressed up in technocratic pretension.	2002-06-28
1499036:US	50592435	R9Z28FBIAJXIB	061806026X	438852329	Redesigning Humans: Our Inevitable Genetic Future	Books	4	1	6	N	N	What is man?	This book is a good companion to Fukuyama's Our Posthuman Future. It is worth considering both. Having read the latter book first, I picked this book up almost prejudicially with two stars against it, bah. But the author won them back in reasonable order in a discussion of the probable inevitability of some form of entry into genetic transformation of man. The term 'inevitability' is loaded with ambiguity, and we should be wary of renouncing control even if attempts to resist technology too frequently attempt to control the wrong thing. Our posthuman future can only one true meaning, our true freedom. The rest is the permutations between two types of poodles and dober pinchers in a species specific cosmetics that will be human still at the end. And in one sense it is not the posthuman future, but the truly human future for the first time. But the author's point is clear, that we have reached the top of the roller coaster, and the ride is about to begin. And that requires more than metaphysical generalizations as the map is more specific about necessary technical choices. But I must still demur in a field where blind men fail to grasp they are blind and make assumptions about the nature of man and his evolution that don't add up and essentially leave us in limbo.<br /> There is an old question of the yogis, Who Am I? with the silent answer, I Am Not The Body. This is taken as a spiritual question, but that is not the issue. If anything genetic engineerig of human outers might drive us to ask who we really are as technical mechanization 'makes our flesh crawl' and rousts us out of our mechanical selves, the tired hippopotamus human wallowing in a curious inertia or sleep. That's one good thing from a spiritual domain in favor of the author's green light, in a context where spiritual types will be, perhaps justifiably, wringing their hands and urging caution. A great confusion will arise as the inner nature of man is proclaimed spiritual in pseudo-religious language, while the basic fact of that confused language does remain as a challenge to our probable permanent ignorance, a factor that biotechnology must reckon with sooner or later. No matter how many upgrades you make to a wordprocessor, its basic functionality is the same. The issue is to use it for something, and this the software can't do. So with genetic man in relation to the potential of man self-realized.<br />In the context of evolution and the Darwin debate, the field is so stuck in scientism and so untruthful about Darwinism that embarking on a major Frankenstein project is--a late night show...le the basic fact of that confused language does remain as a challenge to our probable permanent ignorance, a factor that biotechnology must reckon with sooner or later. No matter how many upgrades you make to a wordprocessor, its basic functionality is the same. The issue is to use it for something, and this the software can't do. So with genetic man in relation to the potential of man self-realized.<BR>In the context of evolution and the Darwin debate, the field is so stuck in scientism and so untruthful about Darwinism that embarking on a major Frankenstein project is--a late night show...	2002-06-24
1501138:US	50592435	R8D0GUG9F6L8R	0742512975	561732530	No Free Lunch: Why Specified Complexity Cannot Be Purchased without Intelligence	Books	5	26	58	N	N	Beating Darwinism to a stalemate	In all the noise of the Darwin debate, I was put off from actually reading this work, and found myself quite surprised, even by comparison with his more popular work, _Intelligent Design_, which also deflected my attention due to its theological wrapper, by the sophistication and intriguing cogency of the book, well away from the culture intrigues of all parties. Willy-nilly he has broken the door down and brought his 'design' consideration (I won't say 'argument') into the scientific domain, if not fully across the threshold of scientific proof, as far as I can tell. And you are on your own here, since even many of the supposed scientific counterarguments are little more than party line fiat. Before embarking on this subject, it is important to recall the Kantian skepticism and disproofs of the Argument by Design, and know the odds against design arguments in general. Dembski has two strikes against him to start. And this book is a cliffhanger as Dembski takes a wallop with his third strike. Fascinating. But this issue of proofs of divinity isn't really Dembski's business, as he embarks on a complex exploration of the factor of information as this impinges on the clear inadequacy of the standard Darwinian claims that random mutation and natural selection can make the ascent to complexity that we see as evolutionary fact. But the problem is that an argument about 'design' is taken in practice as precisely an argument by design in other contexts, rendering the whole game ambiguous. The question of frontloaded anthropic factors versus 'late interrupt' emergence of information is one that should be brought back to discussion, as here, stripped of theological or miraculous metaphors is a real head scratcher. Even if his arguments fail upon deeper review, the reality he deals with remains tabled, and too often disregarded by Darwinian thinkers, for whom, Darwin's theory is unverified dogma. Dembski is often challenged for lack of peer review, which is unfair. The credentials of his original _Design Inference_ were adequate enough, and this short version is well within science discourse. In fact, I find this work an unofficial and always still challengeable bit of peer review of its own, as it is infrequent for someone with the proper math skills to give Darwinism a once-over. The material on the No Free Lunch theorems alone is a useful one. Which doesn't make his version correct. All this said, such complex technical arguments always have their day, and can easily be found wanting themselves. It is hard to improve on Socrates original observation on this distinction of intelligent design and natural cause. It is a useful challenge to be confronted with some tough math here (not so tough, nor really decisive), and one's endorsement is on hold during that catch-up and this in the constant disinformation by the fibs, white 'lies' and Darwinian statistics that throw everyone off scent. Grappling with the missing factor in theories of evolution, and it need not even be called 'design', remains the great quest for any real theory of evolution. I cannot quite say this is that science, but neither is Darwin's and Darwin's theory joins Dembski's in the strange limbo pointed to by Bacon, where the formal and final arguments of Aristotle are, or are not, to be included in the scientific domain. If they are, then theories of evolution hazard the metaphysical. The claims of Darwin to resolve these metaphysical issues in one stroke then are clearly wrong.<br />Dembski has an exposed flank with his very use of the term 'design', both as to the equal need, next to the Darwinist, of empirical verification of his theories, and the question raised by issues of 'design' in history, confused with necessity. Shall we take the evolution of religion (and in, say, the Axial period, atheistic and theistic religions in parallel) as chance, necessity, or design? Dembski has here outsmarted himself, for this 'design' question won't sit well with historical theism's claims. Thus we see this 'design' argument is of no help to the theological conservative, and faith cannot be brought to historical data that is now rendered over to this 'design semi-science' that now claims religious emergence as possibly itself evolution.<br />It is also true that the use of the term 'intelligent' in the term 'intelligent design' is in the end hopelessly ambiguous, as is the challenge to methodological naturalism, which is routinely extended in other religious traditions. Since intelligence should be natural, and not be applicable to divinity, we are left with a need to ask what this refers to at all. We cannot say that the examples in practice of 'design' in human agents is counter to naturalism! The question might be better backtracked to terminology of evolutionary directionality, and/or teleology, that dragon the Darwinist rightly fears, and whose fiery breath is destined to scorch Darwin's fond little 'my theory'. This work by Dempski will promptly be exploited for theological purposes, or pseudo-supernatural speculations. None of this follows as such.sm's claims. Thus we see this 'design' argument is of no help to the theological conservative, and faith cannot be brought to historical data that is now rendered over to this 'design semi-science' that now claims religious emergence as possibly itself evolution. <BR>It is also true that the use of the term 'intelligent' in the term 'intelligent design' is in the end hopelessly ambiguous, as is the challenge to methodological naturalism, which is routinely extended in other religious traditions. Since intelligence should be natural, and not be applicable to divinity, we are left with a need to ask what this refers to at all. We cannot say that the examples in practice of 'design' in human agents is counter to naturalism! The question might be better backtracked to terminology of evolutionary directionality, and/or teleology, that dragon the Darwinist rightly fears, and whose fiery breath is destined to scorch Darwin's fond little 'my theory'. This work by Dempski will promptly be exploited for theological purposes, or pseudo-supernatural speculations. None of this follows as such.	2002-06-22
1532358:US	50592435	R3IHDPRVJ3YR7G	0679761454	388504781	The Politics of Dispossession: The Struggle for Palestinian Self-Determination, 1969-1994	Books	5	23	27	N	N	Possession	It is remarkable how relevant these essays seem still, even as they lead up to the era of the Oslo process, in the frozen present since 1967, or 1948. Sorting out the myths of the Arab-Israeli conflict can be a full-time job, and that's the problem. Said's witnessing of the issues since 1967 has always been one component of the unfolding tragedy. The Arab-Israeli conflict sometimes seems in a time warp, and the relevance of these essays endures, whatever one's perspective. Said's acerbic commentary seems to hover over the decades, and his personal account, to start the book, is a permanent record of those who endured the juggernaut.	2002-05-24
1532980:US	50592435	R2I86E5OZAX7SW	0374236437	707644275	Our Posthuman Future: Consequences of the Biotechnology Revolution	Books	5	1	4	N	N	First and last men	As if the Hanged Man of universal history, Fukuyama endures the dignified if ideological ambiguity of his end of history thesis, to confront now its resolution, perhaps contradiction, in the ancient prophecy made real as the genetics of the New Man. Like a chess game just past its beginning, the book shows a constellation of position pieces that demand study, and this makes the book useful as an object more of dialectic than of easy agreement. It would be a too easy cavil to suggest that government regulation of genetic engineering is of the same order of magnitude as a socialist futurism. But the question is mired in the core politics of modernism. Thus his treatment of the issue of natural right is altogether apt, if debatable, whose version is not? But how does our Hegelian philosopher find such easy passage to the assumptions of the sociobiologists, save as the attraction of neo-liberal ideology wishing to conserve the human nature E.O. Wilson found so incapable of 'utopian' experiments? It is a significant contradiction since a century of hitech science not only can't get straight a theory of evolution, but will persist stubbornly in a reductionist fix of man, and now wishes to modify a human nature whose origins in deep time are the object of science mythologies. This may only mean, as Fukuyama himself wonders, that we may never reach the inner real man, via simple biochemical tinkering.<br /><br />  Fukuyama aims to break and run from his classic thesis,in the direction of Darwinism, yet one should think Hegeliana (without being a Hegelian) an ironic comment to the fallacies of the Neo-Darwinian Synthesis whose theoretical confusions certainly seem to caution the imminent possibility of genetic manipulation. Better yet a dash of Kant. It may be true that man has a 'human nature', but its understanding has surely been systematically confused by positivist assumptions and thrown out of whack by ideological theories of evolution. We should end by asking if a dog has Buddha nature, as a warmup for our definition of 'human' nature, and wonder if we might get lucky in the Frankenstein way the author fears. For it is possible the exercise is but a change of clothes, and the 'self', in a figment of Schopenhauer, is unknown, and unknowable as a Zen mystery.Buddha nature, as a warmup for our definition of 'human' nature, and wonder if we might get lucky in the Frankenstein way the author fears. For it is possible the exercise is but a change of clothes, and the 'self', in a figment of Schopenhauer, is unknown, and unknowable as a Zen mystery.	2002-05-24
1542783:US	50592435	R3VQTM6HSR3CKT	0896086011	729088466	Fateful Triangle: The United States, Israel, and the Palestinians (Updated Edition) (South End Press Classics Series)	Books	5	58	77	N	N	Devil's triangle	At a time when the Arab-Israeli crisis heats up again the continuing frustration is that one simply has no reliable journalistic medium that seems a trustworthy reporter of the facts of the case. The media manipulations are many, and the feints and sleights of hand require a dogged willingness to endure untruth in search of reality. At such points, it is useful to read or reread this work of Chomsky, from 1983, exposing the distortions and instant mythology of the Lebanon War. At least the previous distortions of the various perpetrates can be reviewed as a tonic to proper skepticism. It is remarkable how little the basic situation remains invariant, as one follows this account with its extensive documentation and uncovering of Orwellian propagandas. It remains one of the seminal texts of the conflict, with its completely peculiar and unhealthy connection with the American political system, in a kind of reverse domination of public opinion.<br />This work is as crisp, and still relevant, as it was when it first came out. Moral indignation at propaganda can be uplifting, but getting down to the details can be unsettling.	2002-05-15
1548246:US	50592435	R2C8YGAMZHJ0RT	0316566888	802115246	The Ornament of the World: How Muslims, Jews, and Christians Created a Culture of Tolerance in Medieval Spain	Books	5	32	52	N	N	Same planet, different worlds	After reading Paul Fregosi's important Jihad I felt nonetheless the need to find some additional perspective in the elusive chase after the Islamic enigma. This work appeared like an apparition and foots the dialectical bill. Telling the tale of the last successor of the Ommayeds traveling to Andalusia in the coming of the Abassids, there to initiate a period of the flowering of a great Islamic culture, this work shows the complexity of the Islamic phenomenon, and is a reminder that we might judge Islam not so much by modern standards, though we must, as by the standards of social chaos to which it was sometimes able, as here, to bring some stability, advancement, and culture. And an age of poets. The author recounts the story of the impact of Arabic and its poetic vivacity on the newly forming Romance languages in the passing away of Latin. Somewhere, just here, the troubadours emerge, and we have the lore of Provencal poetry,and the signature of the invisible stream of cultural diffusion at the deep core of European civilization. Fascinating tale, with a curious hint that we fail to see the later Inquisition as it regresses to uproot the Arabized Christians produced by this age of tolerance.	2002-05-10
1551814:US	50592435	R1502GK1JGLXC0	1566563577	354764320	Revising Culture, Reinventing Peace: The Influence of Edward W. Said	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Perspectives on Orientalism	This is an interesting series of essays on the work of Edward Said, with many perspectives on the issues of Orientalism, and the reactions to it, both in the West and in the Arab world. The many distortions and attacks of Said's work are reviewed and clarified, as the question of Palestine and the Arab-Israeli conflict looms in the background. Steady as she goes.	2002-05-08
1555533:US	50592435	R28SRVNCXI86IM	1859843409	540995235	Blaming the Victims: Spurious Scholarship and the Palestinian Question	Books	5	40	76	N	N	Musical chairs for two? This isn't a game	This work seems to exist in another time,for it echoes with as relevant now after many turns of the merry-go-round as it did when written. It strikes the keynote of the last fifty years of the Arab-Israeli conflict as it ticks over in its basic manufactured fallacies, invariant through all policies, editorials and intiatives. The work opens with an account of the appearance of Peters' From Time Immemorial, a concoction of disinformation on the history of Israel, in the myth of the 1948 and the non-existence of the Palestinians. As the Oslo cycle joins the rest, and the next cycle of the basic swindle begins, one might as well go backto the future by rereading this work.	2002-05-04
1555568:US	50592435	R1UWAH906Z6924	0520217187	364358172	Perceptions of Palestine:  Their Influence on U.S. Middle East Policy (Updated Edition with a New Afterword)	Books	5	76	89	N	N	Frozen mindset	This is a very clear treatment of the basic difficulty that has accompanied the Arab-Israeli conflict all the way through--the fixed mindset that gives 'conventional wisdom' free reign, to the point that efforts of diplomats are inhibited, a factor visible in the latest failure, the Oslo Peace process. Thus the notion that Palestinian claims are 'artificially and mischievously inspired' is hard to shake, as is the perception that the only issue in the conflict is an unreasonable Arab refusal to accept Israel's right to exist. The work is a useful guide to the whole history of the conflict, and ends by finding Clinton, so close to a real breakthrough, still caught in all the basic misperceptions.	2002-05-04
1555787:US	50592435	R3QMI1FLO6BJ45	1573922471	14914026	Jihad in the West: Muslim Conquests from the 7th to the 21st Centuries	Books	4	15	23	N	N	Synonyms of war	The complex multidimensionality of Islam makes it hard to perceive in the correct light. And the accounts attempting the necessary understanding frequently misconceive the nature of their subject, or fail to see one reality as they focus on another. This work is a partial corrective to many more sympathetically pleasing depictions of the world and history of Islam, almost as if constructed from the outtakes of another epic. The open society demands our tolerance and it also demands the discipline of correct information and realistic assesement of the tacit implications of the impartiality enforced by social interaction. In a word, the history of Islam is here seen in the grim light of not-always-considered facts, and the result stands as a caution to the overly facile versions assembled in the otherwise greatly to be desired Islamophilic genre. It think the result is only partially successful as a full picture of Islam, and yet it is a needed complement to miscalculations. Men are bound to their circumstances because we agree to certain accounts of the facts. So what are they?<br />I fault this otherwise vigorous book for even once getting into the Christian-comparison game (the author is quite reasonable here, but some readers will not be), for it can be ammunition for a kind of chauvinist view of religious competition, which is not relevant to the somber, dignified, if still only partial account here, which demands once again a factchecker's review of the factchecker. Good to read in association with other more comprehensive works, and a distinct question mark. We see nothing of another side of Islam here. Sufis have been saying all this for millennia. But they turned down the volume, way down.	2002-05-04
1557425:US	50592435	R1UID2X3G8V88L	0739100645	20206932	How Israel Was Won: A Concise History of the Arab-Israeli Conflict	Books	5	9	18	N	N	Will this be how Israel was lost?	This is a useful factual review of the Arab-Israeli account for those who have difficulty trusting the newspapers in this field. Outlining many of the crucial pieces of information lost, forgotten, or suppressed, it helps toward finding some objective basis on which to make a judgement, as hard as that may be. One is suddenly confronted with passive complicity with a hopeless confusion for no other reason than being alive and American, and it is time that the song and dance stopped, the facts.<br />The book opens with a main correction to the usual accounts of 1948, and the secret diplomacy whose factual basis simply knocks out the standard accounts....	2002-05-03
1561966:US	50592435	R2I8YZIROY0BFM	0691009678	74549664	The Founding Myths of Israel	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Kingdom not of this world?	This work was and is controversial but I found it simply useful and informative, an historical reminder, in the haze of journalistic sloganeering, as the telescoped image of the original labor movement in the history of Zionism fails to resolve the exact species of the socialist founders in the genus of nineteenth century socialisms. This was closer to Proudhon than Marx, and, really, the term socialism is egregious, if one was puzzled at the trickiness of chronic division amidst the claims for Israel as the sole democracy in the Middle East. The portrait of 'nationalist socialism' which has nothing to do with 'national socialism' clarifies at once one aspect of the current confusion and turmoil between Israel and the Palestinians. So Israel's state formation is anomalous 'socialism', now what?	2002-04-29
1563000:US	50592435	R20E7V2PSKQRXT	0887060943	67290364	The Origins and Diversity of Axial Age Civilizations (Suny Series in Near Eastern Studies)	Books	5	17	42	N	N	Synchronous emergence--Darwinism, the counterevidence	In the age of the reign of Darwin it is little known that we have the spectacle of historical evolution in our backyard, and that this evidence suits Darwin's thesis poorly.<br />This is one of the key texts in the lore of the so-called 'Axial Age', the idea proposed by Karl Jaspers in his Origin and Goal of History. This series of essays is one of the lifeboats for this underappreciated research tradition, one all too liable to misinterpretation. The idea of the Axial Age and the data of history that it points to is one of the most important and thorniest questions of world history. What are we seeing? These essays are invaluable and attempt to grapple with the basic idea. One of the problems with Jaspers' approach to this data, which has been accumulating since the nineteenth century, is that the explanation lies in this period's unique or fundamental achievement of transcendence, in some sense or fashion. But this is not a property, as such, of this period. Then what is going on? It is one of the most difficult questions that can best be answered by extending the range of the data and seeing the Axial Age in its overal context, an idea difficult to pursue here.<br />These essays are in all cases a fascinating addition to an as yet unsolved problem treated by this reviewer in material of his own.	2002-04-28
1563248:US	50592435	R3W68DNWHT427	0691004870	649378606	Shattering the Myth	Books	5	6	16	N	N	Islam is... Islams	... This work explodes the myth in reverse, of the alien,hostile, and monolithic Islam, and is both a corrective to a corrective and useful as a reminder of the dangers of one-dimensional reduction of any socio-historical complexity, most especially Islam where the journalist impressionism of accounts of terrorism lose sight of the endless rooms in a large labyrinth. There many things, like the legacy of Sufism, are not even visible to the naked eye. We seem left to repeat, 'Islam is this, or this'. The scale alone of Islam is tremendous, and the Middle East is but one star in this constellation, one should retell the tale of the blindmen and the elephant. There is an irony to world history that the world of Islam suffers the abstract cunning and mathematically economic jihad of westernization turned globalization, and as bedouins all we might note the curious genaeology of inheritance in both systems.<br />This book was reviewed alongside Paul Fregosi's Jihad.	2002-04-28
1567285:US	50592435	R1UXMI70OHBIYK	1881408035	553557900	The Dramatic Universe: The Foundations of Natural Philosophy Volume 1	Books	4	18	26	N	N	Hyparchic Future Shock	I recall coming across this book while living briefly with some students of Gurdjieff, who never seem to open it. And I recall reading the first volume without putting it down,in a blind heat, then the whole four volume set three times. The experience was a powerful one, but before long the curious effects of this eerie metaphysical drug composed of dodecads and general relativity wore off and became an oppressive mental burdern,as I simply moved on, almost with a need to simply forget it. Gurdjieff burned his way through two mathematicians in his bizarre schemes to launch the perfect trojan horse into Western Culture. Ouspensky was the first, and being to mentally club-footed, Bennett was the second, it seems. And he was a brilliant man in many ways. Anyone who can spot Kaluza-Klein theory in the thirties and attempt to redo Ouspensky's six dimensional universe game makes one scratch one's head in some curiosity. Clever folks, but in vain. The work as a whole is almost endless in its scope, and contains a fascinating but hopelessly flawed series of incompatible ideas stuck together in a way that doesn't jel. That said, Bennett's idea of 'being, function,will' is quite engaging, as is his conception of this in relation to the dimensions of time, eternity, and hyparxis. Neat, for a while, few New Age texts are this ingenious. However, this is metaphysics, not science, and to pretend otherwise is dangerous medicine for passive disciples if it is made the focus of a cult, beyond criticism of one's peers. Still, Bennett was no rote disciple, and he must have sensed the handwriting on the wall with the 'work' and moved to bring his system within the scope of science, there to founder at once as an attempt to escape reductionism that can only end as the best grounds for the reductionist enterprise. The rubble is still interesting in a distant way, although the work is entirely treacherous and filled with erroneous curiosities. For the whole vision is a phantom. What a phantom however. His idea of the hyparchic future, unverifiable, unfalsifiable, is nothing but 'science fiction' by another name. Yet it is on that basis a curious and compelling notion, before it crashes. I was asked to comment on this work by a Gurdjieffian. I could not do so here, but I would point to the core strategy behind this surface brilliance,the statement of intent in the first few pages to replace the categories of Kant with his dodecad, a hopelessly quixotic foundation of quicksand. A clever jack, but a poor student of philosophy. He must have feared Kant in his bones.<br />One should note that the triad of being, function,will, is reminiscent of Schopenhauer, a point Bennett seems to sense, but a Schopenhauer as if redone by a Hegel, gosh forbid. This 'metaphysics' of the will can never be as profound as it seems, and is a permutation of an old game. Still, if you have a week, check this book out, if only as science fiction. But only a week, and then move on. Any esoteric pretensions are bunk. Never lend your scholarly talents to a Gurdjieff.ntom however. His idea of the hyparchic future, unverifiable, unfalsifiable, is nothing but 'science fiction' by another name. Yet it is on that basis a curious and compelling notion, before it crashes. I was asked to comment on this work by a Gurdjieffian. I could not do so here, but I would point to the core strategy behind this surface brilliance,the statement of intent in the first few pages to replace the categories of Kant with his dodecad, a hopelessly quixotic foundation of quicksand. A clever jack, but a poor student of philosophy. He must have feared Kant in his bones. <BR>One should note that the triad of being, function,will, is reminiscent of Schopenhauer, a point Bennett seems to sense, but a Schopenhauer as if redone by a Hegel, gosh forbid. This 'metaphysics' of the will can never be as profound as it seems, and is a permutation of an old game. Still, if you have a week, check this book out, if only as science fiction. But only a week, and then move on. Any esoteric pretensions are bunk. Never lend your scholarly talents to a Gurdjieff.	2002-04-24
1567347:US	50592435	R27O4ETHAUW6MC	0385079664	155986982	The Sufis	Books	3	8	27	N	N	Sufi con men	The question sufism is very complicated, in part because of the deceptions created by its proponents. Shah's misleading and over hyped work on the subject is a genuine bum steer, with a lot of oulala come on, carrot dangling and mystification. Promoting this subject as a booby trap to attract liberal westerners is not a nice thing to do. Keep in mind this fellow had a secret arrangement of some kind with Gurdjieff, which should set the trust meter down ten pegs. The sufis (most of whom are harmless 'mystics') are cruellest and most sadistic of the New Age prophets on the loss. They don't deserve an iota of trust.<br />Keep in mind that Sufis never speak of Enlightenment or liberation. Be forewarned.	2002-04-24
1567912:US	50592435	R2OBZP8HIWLFZQ	1883816009	681828868	Sufi Tradition in West	Books	4	5	17	N	N	Perfumed Scorpion	I have always found 'Sufism' quite intriguing but after watching the great harm done to persons I have known by the Gurdjieff 'work'I have often wondered at the sources and inter-connections with the outstanding legacy of this quick-change artistry that is 'never an ism'. That of course is a lost cause since the 'esoteric' mindgames and bait and switch tactics of these groups (the majority of which are entirely good hearted and harmless nonsense) makes sizing them up virtually impossible, a situation made worse by the complete incomprehension of western psychological authorities and therapists producing their own condemnations. Yet I had often wondered that Sufis had never to my knowledge quite disowned the man Gurdjieff, at least to my knowledge. Coming across this book then I was interested to see a discussion of this very issue, and a distancing critique of what apparently is a Naqsbandi source. The book speaks of the confusion created in the West by the Gurdjieff work and the odd compedia of pseudo-knowledge in the works of Ouspensky. So I would leave it at that. Here is a recognized Sufi suggesting the difficulty and thus clarifying the false Sufi mystique generated by Gurdjieff advertisement outfits.<br />However, I was somewhat disconcerted first by the suggestion that Gurdjieff had simply absconded from Sufis without a 'mandate' and, secondly, by the citation of the work 'Teachers of Gurdjieff' by Rafael Lefort, purporting to show Gurdjieff's training in Sufism. My problem with this evidence is that the book is surely bogus and anyone who cites it is either no sufi or attempting to cover up something. Probably the fact that Gurdjieff had an unwritten mandate and this is the way Sufis do business, in the shadows.<br />Whatever the case, the issue of mandates is surely hopeless with Sufis. Gurdjieff had no mandate, neither did Al Capone. The mere suggestion this is all he lacked must surely be a form of humour.<br />Whatever else we say about Gurdjieff he gave the game away, so to speak, and in the process dragged Sufism into the open society where it cannot survive long in its current form, at least in the West. No 'Sufi Tradition' can really help, if, as Gurdjieff plainly shew, such a tradition cannot demonstrate any grasp of the realities of world history and modernism, and must operate behind an extreme authoritarianism and veiled hatred of democracy. The age of the gurus and sheiks is faring badly these days, and the legacy of Sufism, however illustrious its deep history, cannot inflict its esoteric domination for long on the quite different mindset of contemporary man.<br />In any case, there are no mandates for Sufism, that, at least, Gurdjieff made clear even as he so cleverly wrought the mystique of the occult sage on those suggestible in this fashion.<br />There are no Sufis then, nor mandates for such. Let that be the end of it. Let us hope those harmed by these illusions can find sanity by another route home.the game away, so to speak, and in the process dragged Sufism into the open society where it cannot survive long in its current form, at least in the West. No 'Sufi Tradition' can really help, if, as Gurdjieff plainly shew, such a tradition cannot demonstrate any grasp of the realities of world history and modernism, and must operate behind an extreme authoritarianism and veiled hatred of democracy. The age of the gurus and sheiks is faring badly these days, and the legacy of Sufism, however illustrious its deep history, cannot inflict its esoteric domination for long on the quite different mindset of contemporary man.<br />In any case, there are no mandates for Sufism, that, at least, Gurdjieff made clear even as he so cleverly wrought the mystique of the occult sage on those suggestible in this fashion.<br />There are no Sufis then, nor mandates for such. Let that be the end of it. Let us hope those harmed by these illusions can find sanity by another route home.	2002-04-24
1569693:US	50592435	R2D0UY40UKV8IS	0195135091	533200031	Hidden Gospels: How the Search for Jesus Lost Its Way	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Gospel truths--and untruths	This work is a useful review and critique of the 'hidden gospel syndrome', familiar from living throught the generation of the New Age movement where the secret text, the next esoteric tidbit, might finally do the trick. The issue of the Q and Thomas gospels is given a hopefully not too hasty dressing down and the confusions surrounding the still fascinating gospel of Thomas is especially useful, if only because that work is of enduring interest, and needs a correct historical account. To put the gnostic literature in perspective is essential in the flood of contemporar confusions, for a whole generation of New Agers have been left with essentially nothing in the massive heap of useless literature.	2002-04-23
1569837:US	50592435	R1L6NNSZZDQ5MO	0226112802	72076281	The Scientific Revolution: A Historiographical Inquiry	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Case of the Missing Centuries	This is one of the best analyses of the history of science, and more, the historiography of science. The history of science is an enigma of world history, as it seems to wax and wane in the tide of millennia between the Greeks and the rise of the modern, and thus accounting for a 'scientific revolution' as either some spontaneous emanation of the seventeenth century or a slow evolution form the Middle Ages is the object of considerable theorizing between Duhem and Koyre and many others. This account is one of the most full-bodied of this genre  (cf. also, e.g. Shapin's The Scientific Revolution) with a sure fire plot as a detective story, the 'case of the missing centuries'.	2002-04-23
1583007:US	50592435	R2DZZW0ROCOON2	0853457263	817182249	Dictatorship of Proletariat	Books	5	9	12	N	N	History of a semantic catastrophe	The term 'dictatorship of the proletariat' is so obscured by its history of reversed meaning amid the semantic misfortunes it has suffered at the hands of all parties since its first limited usage by Marx and Engels, as to be a case study in semantic catastrophe. Hal Draper valiantly traces the way in which the early usages, in the generation of 1848, not at first counterposed to the term 'democracy, later become fatally misleading and are finally appropriated in the Leninist and final Stalinist versions. This actual history is so tricky that I would not contribute further to short clarifications perpetuating confusion by summarizing the book here, and one can only recommend reading the details, since short summaries and official corrections and clarifications trying to get the matter straight are themselves part of the confusion. Suffice it to say that Marx's occasional references were quite innocent of the later interpretations of the phrase. This book should be required reading for anyone attempting to plot against the government.	2002-04-11
1583066:US	50592435	R1USW8N3YOAJ0R	0271008652	615534852	Marx Versus Markets	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Last stop, The End of History	This is a short version, upgraded, of S. Moore's _Marx on the Choice between Socialism and Communism_. The author's argument is:<br />\\"Pointing out that Marx deffines communist economies as classless economies without markets, this book examines his claim that classless economies with markets are in some sense inferior to communist economies. From its analysis, two conclusions emerge. First, Marx's major arguments for abolishing commodity exchange rely on moral and philosophical premises, derived from Feuerback in the earlier writings and from Hegel in the later. Second, Marx's ideal of a communist economy is incompatible with his materialist approach to history...'<br />Your move.	2002-04-11
1587267:US	50592435	R79JKB4UNVBXD	079142135X	464206886	Nietzsche, God, and the Jews: His Critique of Judeo-Christianity in Relation to the Nazi Myth	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Nietzsche's anti-anti-semitism	Reaching a clear picture of the real Nietzsche is not easy, and this work shows one of the reasons: the systematic distortions of, not only the history, but of the actual corpus, of his work.<br />In a complex picture, we see, on the one hand, the controversial positions of Nietzsche on democracry, religion, and ethics, along with his criticism, at some points, of Judaic history, in relation to his extreme anti-Christianity. In the midst of all this, we also discover Nietzsche's sudden realization of what Wagner's racist and proto-fascist, anti-semitic clique of admirers were up to, and his shocked reaction and break with the circle. This initiates a long period of the denunciation of the rising anti-semitism of his times, next to his friendship with Ree. Then, after Nietzsche succumbs to his disease, and is silent, his corpus is appropriated by his sister, and the era of great distortions, and probable doctoring of his legacy and texts begins. As the author shows, the Nazis main interest in Nietzsche seems to have been to neutralize, and destroy, him by making him an anti-semite. The outstanding letters to Overbeck, the object of repeated lawsuits with Nietzsche's sister, but never surrendered, show clearly his anti-anti-semitism.<br />Cf also the recent, Nietzsche, Godfather of Fascism?, by Golomb et al. which critiques the 'myth' of Nietzsche's sister	2002-04-09
1592149:US	50592435	R1UL5V4NQD3AYZ	0520085558	885375645	The Nietzsche Legacy in Germany: 1890 - 1990 (Weimar and Now: German Cultural Criticism)	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Tragedian or tragic hero?	Like the battle for the body of Patroclus, conflicting interpretations of Nietzsche are strewn across the twentieth century, leaving few proofs of a triumph of the will. Between the irrationalism indicted by Lukacs and the vigorous liberal depicted by Kaufmann, we are still in search of Nietzsche. The work of Kaufmann,especially, was a critical first step to any reevaluation of this legacy. Yet its perspective fails to completely account for the record and the shadow behind the man, now too often exempted of the implications of his own savage eloquence. This work is a corrective and traces the whole history of the question from the 1890's onward, and resummons the grim stages of Nietzsche's appropriation by preposterous figures of all hues. From the not-so-discrete Nietzscheanism of the avant-garde to the Zarathustra in the trenches of World War I to the phantom of the opera during the Third Reich the horrific travesties seem too recurrent to release their author from all complicity, even as they leave the deeper Nietzsche intact. It is difficult not to swing between extremes of interpretation here, and the book carefully constructs the middle ground, as we pass on and say goodbye to all that.<br />The book details that several hundred thousand copies of Zarathustra were printed for distribution to the soldiers in the trenches during Great War. One can begin to deduce the rest from that.	2002-04-05
1612071:US	50592435	RLKV2FU9IEO2F	0226143740	291695049	The Politics of Evolution: Morphology, Medicine, and Reform in Radical London (Science and Its Conceptual Foundations series)	Books	5	6	11	N	N	An evolution of politics: difficulties on theory	This is an excellent series of snapshots of the generation of Darwin's youth before 1859, with its gestating theories of evolution, development, transformism, and embryology. In this generation after Lamarck and Erasmus Darwin, we find a host of perspectives, from the Geoffrey-Cuvier debate, the Vestiges, to the many figures such as Grant, who influenced Darwin. We also see the context of the radical era of the anti-Malthusian revolutionary 'evolutionists' in the collision of the Reform Bill, and the conservative polarization of the Whigs and Tory reaction. It is a confusing picture, yet one that is essential to grasping the subtly clever and nonetheless ideological cast to Darwin's tactics of silence and delay, until the moment was ripe, prodded by Wallace, to put forth his conservatized version of evolutionary theory.<br />The great irony here, and the left-leaning Darwin Industry seems to suffer incorrect focus on this point, is that the basis of Darwin's thinking was no more solid scientfically, as to natural selection, than were the views of those in the penny rags preaching cooperation, equality, and radical change in the name of evolution. The endemic confusions of organismic versus cultural evolution, evolution and revolution, and the relation of free action in relation to past, present and future emergence are shared equally by all parties. And the Malthusian basis of Darwin's theory is as open to challenge today as it was in the era of the penny papers of the radicals in the 1830's. The relations of economy and evolution are so transparent, and so connected to the strain of the Whigs, including Darwin, that one must smile to see the merry-go-round turn again in this direction in the era of the genome, and resurgent developmental biology. Will our erstwhile left, now quite conditioned to Darwin's Whiggery, grasp the strangeness of their position, and step off this theoretical illusion?<br />This is an excellent book in many respects, and especially helpful for seeing the nature of Darwin's development in the thicket of the explosive cultural politics of his time.seeing the nature of Darwin's development in the thicket of the explosive cultural politics of his time.	2002-03-20
1625999:US	50592435	RWRG6CG6O72CB	0865425744	126665452	Cells, Embryos and Evolution	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Evolution of evolvability	Although somewhat technical this book is highly recommended as an introduction to the issues of both developmental genetics and evolution both, and these in relation to the mystery of the Cambrian explosion in the controversies that surround that question. Molecular phylogenies give us few clues to the molecular changes that underlie species divergence. Students of evolution tend to rely on on theories of selection and population genetics as explanations for evolutionary change. But there are pitfalls here. For selection only provides a filter on the possible forms, screening the forms presented by development. Thus the study of embryological development becomes essential to seeing what is really happening. From this key idea the book proceeds to explore conservation and the evolution of evolvability, to use a phrase of Dawkins. The result is really quite a new subject altogether. The book ends with a question, has evolvability evolved and is it the result of clade selection? At this point I think we are leaving the realm of standard Darwinism into some new unknown terrain. Excellent book,and despite technical issues really quite clear, well presented.	2002-03-09
1626777:US	50592435	RU146KC5UH8S4	0198503431	760074700	The Art of Genes: How Organisms Make Themselves	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Chickens, and eggs	Charming and clear introduction to the basic 'how to' of development with a lot of information about hox genes in relation to form and function, with an engaging twist, the questions of art from symmetry to creativity. This is the best short introduction to very recent findings in a field transformed in the eighties and only now becoming public knowldege.	2002-03-09
1628393:US	50592435	R2XWBAFAOD3B2F	0674006135	160288803	The Structure of Evolutionary Theory	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Darwin, read Adam Smith	This remarkable new book by the major Postdarwinian who insists on still calling himself a Darwinian will be welcomed by punk-eekers everywhere. This is a major work, and capstone of the author's Ontogeny and Phylogeny, dealing with the entire status of evolutionary theory. Bringing together much of the author's previous research we find a new perspective on hierarchical levels, species selection, and an extensive clarification of punctuated equilibrium, exaptation, and much else, a potent mix filled with an immense amount of historical discussion. Fourteen hundred pages and massively detailed, the result seems like an attempt to foist continuity on a paradigm discontinuity, with excessive solicitude for Darwin at the masthead, and incomplete clarity as to the status of natural selection preserved against the facts. The author's interesting theory of species selection, in relation to punctuated equilibrium, and species individuality, are an important discussion, but one must protest that after disposing of genetic reductionism and outsmarting his opponents Gould is in free fall here, visible in the attempt to thrash about for the 'point of application of evolutionary causality'. This cannot be determined on the basis of the discussion given, or without clearer evidence of how evolution actually happens at closer zoom levels. We just go up and down the scales for the unit of analysis, to wonder why, to use Gould's own note here, modern science restricts itself to one causal category of the Aristotelian tetrad, which also includes the factor of directionality Darwinists have decided they can't find, even in the middle of the strong suggestion it is there. I believe it was Popper who muttered something about metaphysical research programs.<br />Near the beginning of the book is a revealing discussion of Lamarck's approach to evolution, with its two factor perspective as evolutionary progression and lateral adaptation. Forgetting the quite different issue of Lamarckian inheritance of acquired characters, and granting the many crudities and flaws of his legacy, we must suspect that he had it right in essence the first time, in broad strokes. Lamarck's thinking here contained the simplest and most obvious type of explanation of the facts now being stuffed into a Darwin box where they don't fit. The claim that Darwin's monist theory, 'disposing' of Lamarck, produced the answer is clearly most dubious, as Gould is at pains to reflect Lamarck, yet preserve Darwin. The basic confusion is so chronic that it doesn't sink in. The problem of natural selection is confusing all discussion.<br />Another symptom of the basic confusion is Gould's economic ideology, as he notes, \\"I would advance the even stronger claim that the theory of natural selection is, in essence, Adam Smith's economics transferred to nature\\". This immortal fallacy, and the extended material on Darwin and Adam Smith, is a puzzling stance from one we had thought a leftist. If this is all that such new complexity in so many details can produce as an explanation of evolution, then we know the total is hiding a deep fallacy, and we should be on guard at the facade of complexity, however important and interesting. In any case, we are still without some account of the descent of man here. The argument will crash just here, for the comparison of natural selection to economic function clearly led Darwin astray, and it is altogether baffling Gould falls for this. We cannot explain man's descent in this fashion. Economics is a subprocess of the greater historical process, whose core is completely non-Darwinian, and where natural selection is a liability, not the mechanism. The paradox is that Adam Smith said you _should_ do such and such to improve economies. He was not describing laws, but 'shoulds'. Where (ideology apart) is this 'should' in natural selection or general evolution? And what is the evolution of these philosophies? Is this also random? It is not. In fact the whole comparison fails, and you can't make that mistake and claim to have a theory of evolution.<br />None of this obviates the great interest of this book. The sheer scope of this work is remarkable, and I could hardly claim to have done justice to its wealth of cumulative detail. The price is almost a giveaway.<br /> It is worth also recalling Soren Lovtrup's Darwinism: Refutation of a Myth. This is the developmental tradition he predicted would resurface. Watch everyone trying to change their story, and don't be hoodwinked.<br />In any case, this work is fascinating and the value of the detail is tremendous for those in need of study resources for the considerable changes going on in many fields of research. But the one thing it lacks is a theory of evolution. In fact, I think this is only the first stage of a major series of earthquakes that are on the way, for we are in a curious hybrid grey area of Darwinism remorphing. I certainly recommend reading this work, for evolutionary theory is on the move. However, the basic difficulty of applying Darwinism to history and the descent of man remain as before. I fear this is a stalled paradigm shift. The book has everything but a theory of evolutionison fails, and you can't make that mistake and claim to have a theory of evolution. <BR>None of this obviates the great interest of this book. The sheer scope of this work is remarkable, and I could hardly claim to have done justice to its wealth of cumulative detail. The price is almost a giveaway. <BR> It is worth also recalling Soren Lovtrup's Darwinism: Refutation of a Myth. This is the developmental tradition he predicted would resurface. Watch everyone trying to change their story, and don't be hoodwinked.  <br />In any case, this work is fascinating and the value of the detail is tremendous for those in need of study resources for the considerable changes going on in many fields of research. But the one thing it lacks is a theory of evolution. In fact, I think this is only the first stage of a major series of earthquakes that are on the way, for we are in a curious hybrid grey area of Darwinism remorphing. I certainly recommend reading this work, for evolutionary theory is on the move. However, the basic difficulty of applying Darwinism to history and the descent of man remain as before. I fear this is a stalled paradigm shift. The book has everything but a theory of evolution	2002-03-07
1630628:US	50592435	R1V59FBYM3DWVT	081011397X	453525817	Following Form and Function: A Philosophical Archeology of Life Science (Studies in Phenomenology and Existential Philosophy)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Evolutionism recapitulates: Cuvier vs Geoffrey	I was quite surprised to come across this work, and found that it changed my view of biology on the spot. Since the mere mention of teleology in biological company tends to produce 'bizarre behavior' this work is a positive indication that times are changing and the many philosophical issues need to be reconsidered in light of the resurfacing of developmental questions of evolution. The current monistic emphasis on adaptation and function is heuristically critiqued and the results, while still perhaps murky, powerfully address a huge void in current thinking. The author adopts what he calls a modified Kantianism, which is all well and good, but in so far as he lands in the realm of 'dialectical biology' (very briefly at the end), one wonders if the formulation is not in need of further 'debugging'. Kant's powerful formulation of a stance toward teleology,whose considerations are generally fruitless speculations Darwinists rightly find suspect, with its embrace and reserve both is at once a green light and a warning. But that is the price of doing business in such a radically different form of biological thinking.  Splendid effort, whatever the results.	2002-03-06
1632963:US	50592435	R2B4OAVMF7KICJ	0684814811	872816049	MINDS, MACHINES, AND THE MULTIVERSE: THE QUEST FOR THE QUANTUM COMPUTER	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Incredible Shrinking Computers	The sudden appearance of a new branch of knowledge on my radar screen took me by surprise, and in skulking about to find out what was afoot I found this book extremely good as an introduction, surprised at the number of things that are brought together under one umbrella, information theory, quantum mechnizations through its spectrum of interpretations including Bell's theorem, the many universes version of QM of David Deutsch, and much else. Highly useful introductory account.	2002-03-04
1633791:US	50592435	R1BYQSGQ0SJVL7	0801497639	8200095	The Dynamics of Evolution: The Punctuated Equilibrium Debate in the Natural and Social Sciences	Books	5	2	5	N	N	The elusiveness of evolutionary mechanisms	Although slightly out of date now, and out of print, this is still an extremely interesing and comprehensive survey of the original puncutated equilibrium question.	2002-03-03
1634475:US	50592435	R2Z639HW93N59Z	0674006526	133320995	Who Rules in Science?: An Opinionated Guide to the Wars	Books	5	11	16	N	N	One ring to rule them all	This is a useful and interesting introit to the 'science wars', entering the pickup phase as in '52 pickup'. The author begins by noting the reversal of left and right between the original 'two cultures' debate of C.P. Snow, and proceeds to outline almost in manual style the 'rules of the game', from the various epistemologies of science, from logical positivism to Popper and Feyerbend, to the Sokal fracas. The author would seem to give postmodernism not much of a hearing, which means that he is committed in his perspective, but more than fairly so. The division of left and right across the science wars duality is a false dilemma, as the author suggests producing a quadrant redivision of the 'what side you are on' merry-go-round. I think the failure to find solid grounds for the social construction of science, while indicated on the surface, after the Sokal incident, is treading on the dangerous grounds of overconfidence, speaking as one more interested in science. The failure of both sides to see any social construction in theories of evolution makes on feel the divide is less than it seems.<br />Very cogent and readable book, one way or the other.	2002-03-03
1645291:US	50592435	R3GG9JBUA0GZ2X	0415154359	402719670	Viroid Life: Perspectives on Nietzsche and the Transhuman Condition (Routledge Studies in Development)	Books	5	4	20	N	N	Nietzsche contra Darwin	In a breezy fashion, full barage of paper airplanes overhead this book, one need not agree a whit, usefully connects Nietzsche, Darwin, artificial life, and 'species evolution', past, present, future, in the process setting the record straight on Nietzsche and Darwin. One had thought the virulent extremes twixt the deeper chords of the great postmodern peer were an indication of the confusing Social Darwinist influence of Darwin on philosophers. In fact, one's suspicious are confirmed, that Nietzsche was too sharp to fall for Darwin, and saw the problem with Darwin's theory of natural selection almost at once, albeit mixing his cockeyed briliance with his own confusions about overmen. As everything is turned into a philosophic sausage of late, it might behoove the wielder of average opinions to decide to be a non-Darwinian, if he is a Nietzschean, or else vice versa, or else do so hard thinking about fundamentals. Nietzsche's views are complex, and one need not accept them, to see his point that natural selection can't be the resolution of evolutionary progression. In any case the discussion here was a curious sort of counterpoint to what I was thinking, and quite refreshing, read without conversion, and mindful one can misplace cultural history all too easily in the ceaseless revisionisms of the social phantom. Perhaps the only route to overman is via the Caves of Almora, but at least Nietzsche's wildman mien as Conaan the barbarian is at least topically to the point of the next Big Jump in the evolution of the 'schlemiel'.	2002-02-22
1649714:US	50592435	R25VMDLPQWD0HZ	0262661241	428946108	Intelligent Design Creationism and Its Critics: Philosophical, Theological, and Scientific Perspectives	Books	5	4	16	N	N	Designs on culture	This is a useful compendium of articles on the current Darwin debate over Intelligent Design, edited by Robert Pennock, the author of Tower of Babel, containing a lot of material not easily available to the book buying public. Although slightly weightier on the science side, it contains a considerable number of articles from the proponents of ID. The same mistakes over natural selection are repeated here, as in Pennock's previous books. It gets tiresome to hear how the genetic algorithm validates Darwin. Apparently Creationists are the only ones with reliable consultants, like Dempski, who can point out this fact.<br /> This debate has accompanied every stage of the development of evolutionary theory, and it is perhaps worth asking why the issue is always deadlocked, a stalemate. It is significant that the dialectic of this question dealt with by Kant never enter the discussion. Both sides have a metaphysical agenda.<br />I should say that as a critic of selectionism, I find evolution to be foundational, and that Dempski clearly indicated one confusion in this field, that between design and necessity, in relation to the chance and necessity described by Monod. We cannot separate or distinguish this naturalistic 'sense of design' associated with unknown necessity from the quite different Argument by Design, of Paley. And the dialectic of Paley and Darwin is a lesser version of a more complex thesis of Kant, a theist, who never allowed himself this proof.<br /> One could only with reluctance support ID in the classroom, although it has every right to be there a topic of dissenting discussion. However, both sides are dishonest in what is a struggle for the minds of young students, an unseemly farce that should teach students to teach themselves, outside the educational system, which is hopeless on this issue. The first thing students need to learn is from a good course on social ideology and propaganda, especially if it is forced on them in the name of science. The religionists have their own deceptions.<br />Students deserve to know that selectionism has challengers. But the design argument is one fourth fancy math (which can never really resolve its perplexities) and three fourths cultural agenda, and the entire trojan horse effects of particular religions.<br />Yet it is easy to criticize the Creationist or ID side of the debate, but one must ask if all those who rotely support Darwinian viewpoints have really grasped the implications of what they have agreed to? Thus the world of sociobiology has made dominant the untested, and dubious propositions of the genetic evolution of ethical man. It is not surprising that someone should protest this replacement, an hypothesis at best, for all other ethical views in such dogmatic fashion. Darwinists invite endless trouble for themselves. So we can hardly blame the Bible belt from not kowtowing to the Darwin propaganda machine. However, the solution has to be to claim the classrooms for standard science and yet doing this by withdrawing ultimate claims on reality in the name of Darwin's theory. The answer is simple. Darwinism is a great but incomplete research paradigm that should have a solid foundation in the classrooms, but the basis of the theory should be seen as limited in it scope to so aggressively plot the destruction of all other views. Is is possible to learn here?nists have their own deceptions. <BR>Students deserve to know that selectionism has challengers. But the design argument is one fourth fancy math (which can never really resolve its perplexities) and three fourths cultural agenda, and the entire trojan horse effects of particular religions. <BR>Yet it is easy to criticize the Creationist or ID side of the debate, but one must ask if all those who rotely support Darwinian viewpoints have really grasped the implications of what they have agreed to? Thus the world of sociobiology has made dominant the untested, and dubious propositions of the genetic evolution of ethical man. It is not surprising that someone should protest this replacement, an hypothesis at best, for all other ethical views in such dogmatic fashion. Darwinists invite endless trouble for themselves. So we can hardly blame the Bible belt from not kowtowing to the Darwin propaganda machine. However, the solution has to be to claim the classrooms for standard science and yet doing this by withdrawing ultimate claims on reality in the name of Darwin's theory. The answer is simple. Darwinism is a great but incomplete research paradigm that should have a solid foundation in the classrooms, but the basis of the theory should be seen as limited in it scope to so aggressively plot the destruction of all other views. Is is possible to learn here?	2002-02-19
1650832:US	50592435	R33IJZ4UR3FADC	0716740249	963295738	The Dependent Gene: The Fallacy of "Nature vs. Nurture"	Books	5	18	24	N	N	Beyond the Gene Myth	This book is one of the clearest and most convincing critiques of genetic determinism, availing itself of a new, or renewed, developmental perspective. The nature-nurture debate was always an exercise in futility, but here, armed with a new approach, the issues seem to resolve themselves almost transparently. The resurfacing of this developmental perspective in the last decade, even as evolutionary psychology and sociobiology move into the mainstream, is both timely and a source of essential information for those confused by the Darwin debate, with its high powered promotions of genetic reductionism, and the misleading promises of the Human Genome project. It was always hard to resist the rigid claims based on Mendelism, but now we can see there is no alternative, a lesson, after all these years, to remember, think before the experts tell you what constitutes science.<br /> Demonstrating the many confusions here starting with those of Galton, and Weismann, and tracing the embryological perspective all the way back to von Baer in the early nineteenth century, the author shows how the emergence of population genetics derailed developmentalism, leading to the now dominant one-sidedness of the Neo-Mendelian Synthesis, which is not able to account for the relationships of genes in relation to environments. The sidelined corrective of Gerstang and de Beer is now seen to be the source of a newly consolidating research perspective, now envigorated by new knowledge of regulatory genetics.  The confusion of genes and traits is reviewed in a very clear and convincing account, with a remarkable discussion of Lamarck's ideas, their direct relevance, and limitations.<br />The end result is a fascinating new approach to the idea of evolution based on traits at the level of phenotype, a view, by the way, pointed to by Ernst Mayr, long ago. I think here the author is too kind to Darwin and still with the reflex over Lamarck. For now we are given the variant of Darwin whereby his later Lamarckism makes him prefigure the new developmentalism, even as Lamarck is given but a brief pat on the back. That is surely not quite the right history in the middle of what must be an important new outlook very much on the right track.<br />This is a very useful and important book for those on the defensive in the current environment of genetic fundamentalism. However, although the new perspective is essential as a new foundation for any theory of evolution, I think that this new and inevitable paradigm will still fall short of a full theory of evolution. But that is another story, as one can only hope this new point of view will enable a swift exit from the current dominant confusion.Lamarckism makes him prefigure the new developmentalism, even as Lamarck is given but a brief pat on the back. That is surely not quite the right history in the middle of what must be an important new outlook very much on the right track. <BR>This is a very useful and important book for those on the defensive in the current environment of genetic fundamentalism. However, although the new perspective is essential as a new foundation for any theory of evolution, I think that this new and inevitable paradigm will still fall short of a full theory of evolution. But that is another story, as one can only hope this new point of view will enable a swift exit from the current dominant confusion.	2002-02-18
1651971:US	50592435	RD1L6DXPFTRRO	0826412572	945390140	Genetic Engineering Dream or Nightmare?: Turning the Tide on the Brave New World of Bad Science and Big Business	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Beyond Genic Reductionism	Accounts of the new world of the genome are confusing, has noone noticed? The reason is that we no longer live in the Age of Darwinism, although the authors don't let on. Not here. After a head-on assault at genetic engineering, the author presents a clear, if brief, and perhaps transitional and incomplete, debunking of Neo-Darwinism, on the basis of the same material present though disguised in typical texts. The fallacies of genetic determinism, the misleading reductionism of the 'selfish gene' mythology, the fluid genome, Lamarckian evironmentally induced change in DNA, and much else, simply leaves the standard view in the dust. All this in between an aggressive, and quite controversial, attack on the alliance of biology and big business, accompanied by scorchers about the sources of Darwinism in nineteenth century ideology. A sock in the jaw. No doubt a number of statements here are open to challenge. But the basic thrust of the book puts the rest of the profession to shame. Noone can fool anyone anymore, and a more comprehensive and critical version of this type of book would help. But the current profession is not in the business of making biology clear to the public, in the reign of bad science and big business.	2002-02-17
1653451:US	50592435	R32LLG2J3IJ8EV	0500018847	707375654	The Doctors of Revolution: 19th-Century Thinkers Who Changed the World	Books	5	0	3	N	N	A conspiracy of equals	The author opens the preface quoting a figure of the era of Gorbachev, \\"Only an idiot can really believe in Marxism\\". From the perspective of the current 'end of history' thermidor and neo-liberal endgame, one might as well think that idiots proved themselves incapable of creating from the heroic tale told here anything but an ism called Marxism. One might also conclude that contemporary modern man lacks the intelligence to create a just society, thus the confusion in the attempted correction. Judge lest ye be not judged This inauspicious preface complete, perhaps the tone gives the work tang, this fascinating book embarks on a stunning technicolor late late show rendition of one of the great epic tales of history, via a biographical account of the principals in the 'conspiracy of equals' spilling out of the era of Babeuf into the broils and disillusion of 1848, a Hollywood movie in prose. As if told from viewpoint of the poet Heine bearing witness to the drama, and like a zoom shot for the comparable 'Fire in the Minds of Men', this epic telling reveals the human side of each of the major figures, as if this might solidify some verdict. Instead, whatever the author's intention, the work is seditious by indirection by recalling the memory of this rushing series of cataclysm that overtook the twentieth century.<br />A very long book, and not particularly focused on the greater tide of political history, this compelling tome lingers like a kind of daguerrotype of these extraordinary figures, and the future they fought for, even as their efforts came to nothing in the wake of the swift reaction after the year of the Communist Manifesto.	2002-02-15
1665056:US	50592435	R2ANLXZM9AN90O	0847689662	967880647	A Case Against Accident and Self-organization	Books	5	24	35	N	N	Not a chance!	The Darwin debate seems to attract lawyers, as well it might. Macbeth's Darwin Retried, Johnson's Darwin on Trial, now Overman's book on the issues of chance and self-organization in theories of evolution. This book is a razor-sharp and welcome addition to the literature on the statistical critiques of evolutionary hypotheses. From there the book embarks on a challenge to theories of self-organization, and various issues of the fine-tuning argument. The case against self-organization, with its distinction of order and complexity, is very provocative and correctly indicates the way in which the mechanization of 'information' in much of the theory of information fails to really explicate its place in a true theory of biological systems as meaningful. There can be no doubt this critique puts the proponent of self-organization in a tight spot, from which he must plead for mercy, and a time extension. Something like self-organization seems right, yet no such theory as yet is able to bypass Overman's objection.	2002-02-06
1675835:US	50592435	R1GUK1UX3S0JKL	1878448641	615584198	Planetary Mind	Books	5	4	7	N	N	A mind of its own	Darwin's theory of evolution is hamstrung by its reductionist cast into positing theories of 'local action' with a mechanical metaphor. And yet a theory of global action, in a biospheric and mathematical sense, seems to haunt the data of evolution.  Although it enters dangerous terrain, this work, by a qualified astrophysicist, embarks on this quest for the planetary and non-local factors in the evolution of life. Although I am wary of this kind of thinking, if only because it is hard to be exact, this work is so elegantly done, both as a critique of Darwinism, and an exposition of the Bergsonian theme, that it must stand guard on the genre, too liable to New Age confusions.<br />The problem is that what we suspect is not quite what we can demonstrate. However this wariness does not do justice to the importance of this perspective which must endure exile in a stone kingdom of positivist evolutionary trilobites.<br />In any case, the nicely illustrated presentation comprehensively covers the difficulties of Darwinian selection, the statistical problems pointed to by Hoyle and others, the strengths and limitations of theories of self-organization such as those of S. Kauffman, with a brief introduction to the ideas of Bergson and Whitehead.<br />A look at the history of philosophy will demonstrate a curious 'what happens then...' as far as the argument by design, pantheism, reductionism, and natural law is concerned. This concealed prophecy of the philosophers who skidded between the Spinozas, Kants, Hegels, before the Darwins will alert at least one of the three little piggies to warn the other two, and commence a quiet enquiry in this direction. The rest will soon follow, no doubt...	2002-01-28
1679365:US	50592435	R2SL7P6T1G78W	081290883X	642110918	A Delicate Arrangement: The Strange Case of Charles Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace	Books	5	13	15	N	N	The mystery of Darwin and the Ternate letter	Arnold Brackman's book on the 'delicate arrangement' concerning Darwin and Wallace is an important, now out of print and no doubt too little read, text on the enigma of the sources of the theory of evolution, and the suspicion about Darwin's delay and sudden breakthrough on the principle of divergence. The issues raised are shocking, and keep getting shunted aside by Darwinists in general. Brackman's book is not so easily dismissed.  And beyond the specific questions which struggle for correct proof lies the more general picture of Darwin, which is clear and not very flattering, to say the least, irregardless of the actual facts of what skullduggery was occurring here that required such clear stealth tactics abetted by Hooker and Lyell, stretching to the staging of the joint announcement at the Linnean Society.<br />From Brackman's A Delicate Arrangement<br />Among Darwin's letters and journals that June morning of 1858 was a relatively thick envelope containing some twenty sheets of a thin 'foreign' stationary, probably rice paper, and probably pale violet in color. The manuscript was accompanied by a note from Alfred Russel Wallace, who had initiated a correspondence with Darwin only some twenty months earlier from Sarawak, Borneo... (Chapter 2)<br />(Chapter 3) Since the manuscript Wallace mailed from Ternate contained--in complete form--what is today known as the Darwinian theory of evolution, the date of its arrival at Down House acquires profound historical significance.<br />A quartet of dates is in the running as the date on which the postrider handed Wallace's envelope to Parslow. The first of the four-Friday, June 4--is speculative; the second--Tuesday, June 8--is the day Darwin wrote Hooker that he had suddenly found the missing 'keystone' of his theory; the third--Monday, June 14--is suggested by Darwin's 'little diary'; and the fourth--Friday, June 18--is the date publicly advanced by Darwin himself. Wherever the chronological reality may rest, June 1858 clearly marked for Darwin the moment of truth.<br />The problem is compounded by the disappearance of the Darwin envelope. The envelope...In all probability it no longer exists. It has either been misplaced or, more likely, destroyed.<br />The postal history of the period, the survival of a number of other Wallace letters from Ternate, and a consensus among philatelists is that it would take a letter from Ternate some twelve weeks to reach Down. According to the evidence found in Wallace's papers, he wrote out his complete theory of evolution toward the end of February and posted it March 9, when the first available Ductch vessel dropped anchor at Ternate. This is corroborated by a letter Wallace sent that same day by the same ship to Frederick Bates, the brother of Henry Walter Bates with whom Wallace had scoured the Amazon for species some years earlier. H. Lewis McKinney, a memeber of the University of Kansas faculty, was the first to draw attention to the Bates letter....<br />Wallace's letter to Darwin should have arrived the same day as Bates', June 3, or perhaps a day or two later. \\"It is only reasonable to assume that Wallace's communication to Darwin arrived at the same time and was delivered to Darwin at Down House on 3 June 1858, the same day as Bates' letter arrived in Leicester,\\" said McKinney. \\"If this sequence is correct, as it appears to be, we must ask ourselves what Darwin was doing with Wallace's paper during the two weeks between 4 June and 18 June (when Darwin claimed to have received it).\\"<br />Two other books, John Brooks, \\"Just Before the Origin\\"<br />and<br />Raby's recent Alfred Rusell Wallace58 clearly marked for Darwin the moment of truth. <BR>The problem is compounded by the disappearance of the Darwin envelope. The envelope...In all probability it no longer exists. It has either been misplaced or, more likely, destroyed.<BR>The postal history of the period, the survival of a number of other Wallace letters from Ternate, and a consensus among philatelists is that it would take a letter from Ternate some twelve weeks to reach Down. According to the evidence found in Wallace's papers, he wrote out his complete theory of evolution toward the end of February and posted it March 9, when the first available Ductch vessel dropped anchor at Ternate. This is corroborated by a letter Wallace sent that same day by the same ship to Frederick Bates, the brother of Henry Walter Bates with whom Wallace had scoured the Amazon for species some years earlier. H. Lewis McKinney, a memeber of the University of Kansas faculty, was the first to draw attention to the Bates letter....<br />Wallace's letter to Darwin should have arrived the same day as Bates', June 3, or perhaps a day or two later. \\"It is only reasonable to assume that Wallace's communication to Darwin arrived at the same time and was delivered to Darwin at Down House on 3 June 1858, the same day as Bates' letter arrived in Leicester,\\" said McKinney. \\"If this sequence is correct, as it appears to be, we must ask ourselves what Darwin was doing with Wallace's paper during the two weeks between 4 June and 18 June (when Darwin claimed to have received it).\\"<br />Two other books, John Brooks, \\"Just Before the Origin\\"<BR>and <BR>Raby's recent Alfred Rusell Wallace	2002-01-26
1680944:US	50592435	R31ASWK2TON4X5	0151005206	684702663	The Monkey in the Mirror: Essays on the Science of What Makes Us Human	Books	5	3	7	N	Y	Descents of the evolutionists from bone peddlers	It is one of the mysteries of the twentieth century that everyone thought they had a theory of evolution accounting for the descent of man, when in fact they didn't. And too many books on human evolution, attempting to fit a square peg into a round hole, start to beat around the bush and are are so confusing due to dogmatic reiterations of received theory you feel you have been had, if you can finish them. This short book of essays is an exception and cuts to the quick of the issues, and is really a 'must-read' for getting your bearings in this field, once ridiculed by a book called Bone Peddlers by William Fix. First, it makes clear how little we know about human evolution, in the paucity of fossils from which our understanding comes.  That is essential, for we imagine that we are required to take on faith everything asserted in this field, when in fact, it is almost void of certainties. Next, it intelligently graduates from the disorderly punctuated equilibrium debate, in its several innings, to avail itself of new insights and proposals of the last generation, among them the idea of 'exaptation', non-adaptive innovations waiting on their realized use in a later context. The work of J. Schwarz in Sudden Origins with its considerations of developmental genes and the spread of recessive mutations comes to the aid of the overall perspective, whose novelty, correct or not, as a new form of evolutionary explanation is refreshing and intriguing. Rejecting the idea of natural selection as a creative force finetuning adaptations and distinguishing morphological change from speciation, the work proceeds briskly through the hominid sequence with a  clarity not seen in most other works in this area, and makes clear the difference between anatomically modern and behaviorally modern man, and all this in relation to the issue of the Neandertals. There is still, in this reviewer's opinion, a void in the whole account, centering on the issues of consciousness and language, indeed Tattersall makes this clear, but at least the overall sequence begins to make sense with this ingenious new means to reconcile fast evolution and slow evolution, speciation, and much else. Although short, and at first apparently lightweight, this turned out to be one of the most useful books on human evolution I have read. I recommend not letting Darwinian armtwisters deflect your attention from some basic issues here.Tattersall makes this clear, but at least the overall sequence begins to make sense with this ingenious new means to reconcile fast evolution and slow evolution, speciation, and much else. Although short, and at first apparently lightweight, this turned out to be one of the most useful books on human evolution I have read. I recommend not letting Darwinian armtwisters deflect your attention from some basic issues here.	2002-01-24
1686233:US	50592435	RMFH36FE9TI5Y	0812690249	569010597	The Gita As It Was: Rediscovering the Original Bhagavadgita	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A distorted history	This invaluable study of the history of the text of the Gita is unfortunately out of print, but a must read for anyone interested in unraveling the enigmas of Indian spiritual history and wresting the gold from the illusions here. Attempting to show that the book we now have is a very late version from the period ca. 800 A.D. with a theistic cast not present in the original, the book also uncovers the connection with the Samkhya tradition, a very early form of which was probably part of Gautama's path. As if the text of the Iliad had fallen into Christian revisionism and made a document of spiritual monotheism, the Gita that we have is an eloquent but misleading series of confusing layers. The author also suggests certain interpolations in the text of the Yoga Sutras designed to make it seem compatible with the tide of monotheism sweeping India in the later medieval period.<br />Cf. also a work such as Gerald Larsen's Classical Samkhya, for the difficult history of this uniquely interesting yoga, and its tortuous history.	2002-01-21
1686308:US	50592435	R2FDAAYF5JBZEQ	0226038599	755005064	Darwin, Marx, Wagner: Critique of a Heritage	Books	5	23	31	N	Y	From before the Neo-Darwinian Synthesis	I reviewed this classic several years ago, but am now including it in my series of Darwin critiques:<br />As part of a series of reviews in the ISPD project (In Search of Post-Darwinists) at Darwiniana blog, I am reviewing this book because it is a critique of Darwinism. Given five stars because the author had the nerve to challenge Darwin they may nonetheless deserve careful reading.//8/4/12<br /><br />Jacques Barzun's book was first published first in 1941, which is almost the moment the Neo-Darwinian Synthesis came into being and made the expression of Darwin doubts or criticism such as are manifest here virtually impossible in a university humanist. And yet sixty years later, at a time when Ernst Mayr, one of the original 'synthesizers' can unrepentantly produce his \\"What Evolution Is\\", Barzun's critique reads as insultingly fresh as the day it was written, with a putdownish suggestion that Darwin wasn't too swift. The Darwin propaganda machine has almost made thinking obtuse here, and Creationist red-herrings can be as reprehensible. The Darwin debate has left everyone befuddled, and this essay on Darwin (and Marx), agree or not, shows a clarity that is unusual.<br />His work seems out of place now for a man who was prominent in a major university, but if one reads Bowler's The Eclipse of Darwinism, describing the waning of Darwinism at the turn of the century, it will perhaps evoke the perspective that Barzun still reflects in this book. (In fact, the same can be said of the Marx essay, which reflects the Marx debate, perspectives almost forgotten after the Bolshevik revolution). In fact, even by the late 1860's Darwin himself knew he was in trouble with natural selection.<br />It is noteworthy how little science Barzun discusses, which makes the book suspect for some, or certainly open to challenge. But in reality it bespeaks a certain clarity that has been lost, and which was clearly present in the decades of the appearance of Darwin's book, when even many of Darwin's supporters, even Huxley, realized they had a hypothesis to deal with, not a certain dogma.<br />The quote below is as cogent for the current Darwin debate as it was originally. Note how little anything changes.<br /><br />\\"Some obviously feared that ifnatural selection were discarded evolution would be endangered. They thought the twotheories inseparable and foresaw a rebirth of superstition. But dropping natural selectionleaves the evidence for evolution untouched. It was not even a question of droppingnatural selection, for natural selection is an observed fact. It was a question of seeing--as Darwin came to see--that selection occurs after the useful change has come into being... \\"f Darwin's supporters, even Huxley, realized they had a hypothesis to deal with, not a certain dogma.<br />The quote below is as cogent for the current Darwin debate as it was originally. Note how little anything changes.<br /><br />\\"Some obviously feared that ifnatural selection were discarded evolution would be endangered. They thought the twotheories inseparable and foresaw a rebirth of superstition. But dropping natural selectionleaves the evidence for evolution untouched. It was not even a question of droppingnatural selection, for natural selection is an observed fact. It was a question of seeing--as Darwin came to see--that selection occurs after the useful change has come into being... \\"	2002-01-21
1688649:US	50592435	R11LOSJJDZKIN1	0809229749	816045001	Global Squeeze: The Coming Crisis for First-World Nations	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Capital	This is a very effective piece of economic reporting and must be one of the most acute pictures of 'capital in the raw' that I have read,  a desmerizing tonic to the endless litany of neoliberal triumphalism. Neither Marxist, nor doctrinaire, it unwittingly scores a bullseye of indirect marxist analysis of the one-and-the-same process that is the invariant of the capitalist system. This isn't even a radical statement.  Slogans one way or the other are stopped in their tracks by facts here, and facts that induce momentary helpless shock, quite short of firebrand indignation. We don't live in a global democratic system. Therefore we don't live in a democratic system. Capital has beaten the pants off sentimentalism here. Democracy so-called is a good front, but otherwise an inconvenience to the predators described herein.  The author produces one horrendous<br />statistic about forty thousand people controlling 81 trillion in assets. Capital.<br />Not much more needs to be said.<br />Your move, unless you are powerless, a democratic nobody. Checkmate?	2002-01-18
1688871:US	50592435	R3RMYOC8U0VHWB	0791444902	331145836	Marx and Engels: Their Contribution to the Democratic Breakthrough (Suny Series in Political Theory. Contemporary Issues)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Self-organization of the working class	In the endless denunciations of totalitarianism even as neo-liberalism demolishes the achievements of a century of labor, we forget that it was the self-organization of the working class that spearheaded the real emergence of democracy and universal suffrage. This book attempts to demonstrate that Marx and Engels were the leading protagonists in that process. The book surveys the whole drama from the 1840's to the final period of Engels and German Social democracy, stressing the activist political role of Marx, whose passive British museum life as an uninvolved philosopher is exposed as the myth it is. Curiously mordant is the comparison of the reactions of Marx and Engels compared to that of Tocqueville to the period of revolution in 1848 and the coming of Napoleon. Tocqueville is seen for who he was then, not the author of his famous book, and now the democrat, Marx the svengalian. It seems hopeless to ever set any of this straight.  This book presents a clear snapshot of the full sequence of events.<br />This reviewer has also reviewed &quot;The Myth of the Proletariat&quot;. This commentary is a useful response to the thesis of that work.	2002-01-18
1691917:US	50592435	R3Q5OKJ7E3T96P	0198279957	980911672	Reappraising Political Theory: Revisionist Studies in the History of Political Thought	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Evolution of Political Theory + A Marx-Darwin Clarification	This interesting series of snapshots on the course of modern political theory, from Machiavelli, through Vico, Rousseau, to Marx and Rawls, also contains an important and useful essay, &quot;Marx and Darwin Reconsidered&quot;, exposing the myths that surround the supposed letters of Marx to Darwin.<br />&quot;For more than a century the names of K. Marx and C.Darwin have been linked in an apparently indissoluble union. That union, I shall argue is almost wholly chimerical. It dervies from a myth created after Marx's death by Friedrich Engels, disseminated by later Marxists as evidence for their theory's scientific status, and given considerable credence and suport by the discovery of two letters written by Darwin to Marx. As we shall see the first of these letters is authentic, so too is the second--except that the addressee was not Karl Marx&quot;.<br />History has forgotten the harm done to Marxism by Darwin's theory, as the disastrous equation of evolutionary mechanism, natural selection and class struggle collated in certain more degenerated versions of revolutionary thinking. Setting the record straight is important here, for all perspectives.	2002-01-16
1691977:US	50592435	R25D3QJ1OT3LO6	0812690168	34428707	From Marx to Mises: Post-Capitalist Society and the Challenge of Economic Calculation	Books	5	15	22	N	N	Miscalculations and botched economies	Critiques of Marxism are too often biased and useless misunderstandings of the substance and history of its philosophy and theories, but this book points to a partial exception that is more than ideological cliches, the socialist calculation debate, and contains a thorough history of this theoretical wrangle and its arcana, exposing the core weakness of the so-called Communist economies in action. Since consevatives make a fetish of this argument, I will recommend it instead to ostrich students on the left since few seem to be even aware of domain of discourse, or else they are not telling. G. Hogdson's Economics and Utopia also contains a corrective discussion of this issue, with a summary of &quot;Towards a New Socialism&quot;, with its provocative and amusing attempt to resolve the intractable pricing nexus with computers! This after all is partly a technical, not a philosophic, issue, in the long run. Pricing twelve million commodities was a nightmare for Stalinist bureaucracies, but a few seconds computer time these days doing an input-output matrix! Hayek the dragonslayer may find himself trumped by Moore's Law, one day. That will be the day. Ha!<br />Important and useful book.	2002-01-16
1692282:US	50592435	R3HUXBOQMX9YB3	0804731640	53753866	Marxism and the Leap to the Kingdom of Freedom: The Rise and Fall of the Communist Utopia	Books	4	4	15	N	N	Antinomies of freedom and necessity	This is the last of about ten Marx critiques that I read, if only because they often have facts unavailable elsewhere. After a while they are all the same, though not quite this one. Comparable to the work of Kolakowski in a perspective on Communism from the vantage point of those who lived this experience in Eastern Europe, this striking work is a reminder of the historical record, in four main stages, Marx, Engels, Lenin, and the totalitarian outcome, and a recommendable challenge to overconfident Marxist houdinis to release themselves from the bindings of confused enterprise, with a detailed history not available in most major propaganda versions. No fan of Marx, still, few come as close to the core of the strange Hegelian-Feuerbackian notion of 'self and species being' that animates the almost crypto-Upanishadic quality of this concept of man. This is genuinely obscure, and genuinely profound, and almost the mistake of presuming the noumenal, in the antinomy that lurks near the shipwreck of the 'realization of being'.<br />The author wishes to explore Marx's conception of freedom, &quot;a mode of existence in which humans are integrated and self-determining&quot;. One pauses, what's wrong there, this is the answer, no?  It is factual to maintain that the form of economic society in question rarely releases the true self from the free economic agent. Here Marx's challenge to the future stands, irregardless, in the concealed tragedy of Hegelian slaughterbench teleology, unresolved in any philosophy.  Perhaps it is the fuzzy undefined nature of the metaphyical basis that leads to the inexorable reversal and deviation from its initial conditions of the Movement, and the tale told is a gripping description of the stages of a tragedy, and the leap becomes a series of increasingly irrational circumstances, like a jacknifed truck in an accident.<br /> Beyond the questions of philosophy, the book is an excellent portrayal of the sheer Murphy's Law quality of group organizational tactics, reified ideologies, founders and disciples, philosophy versus scientism, and the seeming inevitability of the claim on the future to do anything but lose control. The tragic outcome of revolutionary logistics. One must differ from the author to a great degree, we cannot indict Marx for this complex outcome. We can see that the reification of this resolution of self and species being is apt to turn into something unforeseen. The 'authoritarian' Marx seems too much in evidence, where the democrat of the 1840's is struggling with the definition of terms.<br />A critique of Marx, unless merely facile propaganda, must really engage the enemy, and risk uncovering more than a cardboard figue, and the real insight behind Marx's heroic gestures. The author invokes this Marx and raises his sword to slay the dragon, but it slips away, wounded, whether fatally remains unknown.<br />Gripping tale in any case. Back to the beginning with the debugger.tional tactics, reified ideologies, founders and disciples, philosophy versus scientism, and the seeming inevitability of the claim on the future to do anything but lose control. The tragic outcome of revolutionary logistics. One must differ from the author to a great degree, we cannot indict Marx for this complex outcome. We can see that the reification of this resolution of self and species being is apt to turn into something unforeseen. The 'authoritarian' Marx seems too much in evidence, where the democrat of the 1840's is struggling with the definition of terms. <BR>A critique of Marx, unless merely facile propaganda, must really engage the enemy, and risk uncovering more than a cardboard figue, and the real insight behind Marx's heroic gestures. The author invokes this Marx and raises his sword to slay the dragon, but it slips away, wounded, whether fatally remains unknown. <BR>Gripping tale in any case. Back to the beginning with the debugger.	2002-01-16
1696417:US	50592435	R13NMSL720YSST	0465004199	183083723	Are We Alone?: Philosophical Implications Of The Discovery Of Extraterrestrial Life	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Is Life Contingent?	This short work gives a very clear introduction and summary to the issues of cosmic life, and in the process provokes a very intriguing series of questions about evolutionary theory. For the consideration that life has a cosmic basis immediately calls into question the contingency of life's emergence claimed by Neo-Darwinists. Davies tackles this and other questions very directly, and is especially open on the question of evolution, where other writers tend to speak in signs. &quot;If human intelligence is just an evolutionary accident...then there is no reason to expect that life on other planets willever develop intelligence as far as we have...&quot;  There is also an interesting discussion of the type of doubt Alfred Wallace had about the descent of man, and the many talents in a potential state that seem hard to account for by natural selection. Very interesting book from two perspectives, SETI and evolutionary theory.	2002-01-12
1696935:US	50592435	R394DM5JO5LJ07	0226744108	415215788	Victorian Sensation : The Extraordinary Publication, Reception, and Secret Authorship of Vestiges of the Natural History of Creation	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The Evolution of Evolution	As Henry Drummond noted in 1883, &quot;This is the age of the evolution of Evolution. All thoughts that the Evolutionist works with, all theories and generalizations, have themselves evolved and are now being evolved.&quot;<br />This remarkable work on the Vestiges of Robert Chambers is itself a history of the evolution of evolution, describing in wonderful detail the context of a book that perfectly fits Drummond's description. Springing from eighteenth century intimations, first theorized by Lamarck, the idea of evolution finally bursts into public consciousness with Chambers' Vestiges, whose sudden popularity, if not notoriety, made it one of the first modern bestsellers in an age of technological breakthroughs in communications, transport, and printing. Laying the groundwork for laters theories, it nonetheless is too often dismissed as pseudo-scientific when, in fact, the author was aware of certain aspects of the pre-Darwinian ideas of evolution that only now are resurfacing, after being shunted aside by the Darwin tide to come. The account in this work is an engaging hybrid of cultural history mixed into the biography of Chambers' book, and is useful for the student of evolution in its account of the social relations of science, from the gentleman scientist to the grub street popularizers, and indirectly brings to life the later relationship of Huxley to Darwin. The age of Darwin in which we live has made him the sole authority and source of a science of evolution and this distorts the facts, and has obscured the reputation of this and other books. Indeed part of the confusion over selectionist theories sprang from the need for Darwin to artificially separate himself from previous ideas of evolution, by a novelty of claims, since the idea of evolution had seen its foundations laid. It is good to remember the full tale. The reality is that Vestiges was the first thunderclap of the evolutionary idea, whose correct intimations mixed with much speculative confusion were filtered out of the positivist account of Darwin, that provoked its own firestorm of reactions, for not the least reason that it was as evolutionary as the work of Chambers, and did not truly foot the bill for a theory of descent.were filtered out of the positivist account of Darwin, that provoked its own firestorm of reactions, for not the least reason that it was as evolutionary as the work of Chambers, and did not truly foot the bill for a theory of descent.	2002-01-12
1698015:US	50592435	R3UH5UED8WKSMC	0195133056	987482026	Kant and the Sciences	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Between Newton and Darwin	The relationship of Kant to the exact sciences remains one of the outstanding mysteries of philosophy, in part because of the confusion in our own minds about the nature of those sciences, visible in the assumption by current sociobiologists that selectionist evolution reduces the ethical, in a direct attack on Kant by its founder.<br />Echoing the Leibnitz-Clarke debate, Kant's response seems to first embrace Newton's legacy in his first critique, then confound it in the strange triad made up of the second and third critiques. The relation of two of these is hard, three together altogether strange. Small wonder we flounder here. Perhaps Kant was the last man to understand that triad before its Hegelian reification downshifts into 'dialectical logic', which doesn't really explain it. But Kant's critique of teleology puts him squarely at odds with the type of biological thought to come in the legacy of Darwin. Thus,this emergence of teleological thought from the most arduous critical examination of the status of causality is the great riddle that now haunts the realm of biological and evolutionary theory.<br />This outstanding work contains two essays on this teleological perspective and biology, &quot;Kant on Understanding Organisms as Natural Purposes&quot; by Hannah Ginsborg, and &quot;Organisms and the Unity of Science&quot;, by Paul Guyer. The notes of Ginsborg pleasantly expose the Darwin dissenter, with the observation, &quot;I take the conception of mechanical explanation here to be sufficiently strong as to exclude explanation of the origin of higher order forms of life by appeal to natural selection...&quot;<br />A not dissimilar resolution of causality arises in such postdarwinian works as S. Kauffman's At Home in the Universe, in relation to questions of random evolution in Darwinism, and it is remarkable to see Kant's intuition rising to the surface once again. But the paradox of the mechanical organism as incompletely known is powerfully suggested by Kant, at the threshold of teleological thinking. The confusion over the status of chance that now reigns was not present to such a degree before Darwin, and Kant still reflects a type of common sene we have lost. In any case the suitors of Penelope haunt the current interpretations of Kant's critical system in relation to Darwin. Kant was no Darwinist, that is clear. Kant could assist in clarifying the current Darwin debate for these reasons, but the theists disown him for his critique of design, and the Darwinists disown him because they fancy Kant metaphysical and themselves free of this vice (!).  A voice crying in the wildernesst the threshold of teleological thinking. The confusion over the status of chance that now reigns was not present to such a degree before Darwin, and Kant still reflects a type of common sene we have lost. In any case the suitors of Penelope haunt the current interpretations of Kant's critical system in relation to Darwin. Kant was no Darwinist, that is clear. Kant could assist in clarifying the current Darwin debate for these reasons, but the theists disown him for his critique of design, and the Darwinists disown him because they fancy Kant metaphysical and themselves free of this vice (!).  A voice crying in the wilderness	2002-01-11
1699122:US	50592435	R3MMNKKXDCYRMZ	0201483408	653507021	Out of Control: The New Biology of Machines, Social Systems, & the Economic World	Books	5	6	8	N	N	The Onset of Postdarwinism	This very engaging work contains a lot of innovative insights on systems theory, and also a very effective chapter on postdarwinism, which opens by quoting the biologist Lynn Margulis on Darwinism:<br /> &quot; 'It is totally wrong. It's wrong like infectious medicine was wrong before Pasteur. It's wrong like phrenology is wrong. Every major tenet of it is wrong,' said the outspoken biologist Lynn Margulis about her latest target: the dogma of Darwinian evolution.&quot;<br />Kelly then goes on to point out that a number of microbiologists, geneticists, theoretical biologists, mathematicians, and computer scientists are saying there is more to life than Darwinism. &quot;They do not reject Darwin's contribution; They simply want to move beyond it. I call them 'postdarwinians'.&quot;<br />With this the author provides a very good upgrade of many of the criticisms that have always accompanied Darwinism, along with a series of tie-ins with contemporary complexity theory, including the work of Kauffman, the new work on artificial evolution, and a very interesting musing-meditation on 'rising flow' in the context of the perennial thermodynamic enigmas latent in all evolutionary thinking.<br />The bibliography at the end is also invaluable for the literature here, including little know works, which as the author points out, is being resurrected by students in field, looking to move on to the era of postdarwinism.	2002-01-10
1707878:US	50592435	RADTKR7Y5N9SC	0312195451	508861703	Fashionable Nonsense: Postmodern Intellectuals' Abuse of Science	Books	5	4	14	N	N	Houses divided against themselves	Having never gotten past the 1790's, the dread decade, in philosophy and arriving on the scene of postmodernism like Rip Van Winkle quite untutored in this new jargon, I found this introduction to the culture wars entirely apt and convincing, to start, and applauded from the bleachers the very crisply fought innings of the apparent rout of this new form of non-sense. Especially telling were the various appropriations of scientific terminology and concepts, from Godel to Chaos theory. On that level this book is a must-read, and I think the first wave of postmoderns out of the foxholes of deconstruction is fairly well zapped. But a certain disquiet arose from the general argument turning this elegant book into my first 'postmodern reader', curious as to further enquiries in this direction, as I began to suspect a certain overconfidence in the bravura skirmishes. Who, for example, is not tired of glib Popperian epistemology, fine. Yet to attack it opens a hornet's nest of issues, that cannot be easily salved by fancy answers to Hume's considerations of induction. I found myself, in consideration of this and other instances, somewhat leary of a beast that bites, what to complain it be wild. In general the defense of foundationalism works well enough if one be so foolish as to deconstruct physics, yet the difficulties mount if general exemption is granted to the flagwaving of science in fields from evolution to the social sciences. The postmoderns lost the thread of their argument in the incantations of jargon that seem to anesthetize the reality of confused epistemologies, to which the answer is not finger-in-the ... empiricism, nor false-mustache disguises for Hume, with his crippling doubts, addressed in Kantian de-deconstruction.<br />Finally, it seems the postmoderns were unable to stake their position, for the main instance of the complaint, the social construction of a scientific endeavor, is plainly visible in the crown jewels of modernist secularist, Darwin's theory of evolution. It is a bit odd this theory has been spared by both parties. No, I think this book is a fair introduction to what it protests. And we are back in the `1790's, whence the root ideas spring, to stalk the groves of academe, and gnaw at the foundations of knowledge. One must hope this triumph over fashionable nonsense is not a Pyrrhic victory.<br /> Cf. Antifoundationalism, Old and New, Tom Rockmore and Beth Singerory of evolution. It is a bit odd this theory has been spared by both parties. No, I think this book is a fair introduction to what it protests. And we are back in the `1790's, whence the root ideas spring, to stalk the groves of academe, and gnaw at the foundations of knowledge. One must hope this triumph over fashionable nonsense is not a Pyrrhic victory. <br /> Cf. Antifoundationalism, Old and New, Tom Rockmore and Beth Singer	2002-01-04
1708741:US	50592435	R3AJODWFVNQWLB	0877228817	552126249	Antifoundationalism Old and New	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Modernity and the orphan origins of the postmodern	In the incoherence of the culture wars the many incarnations of the same basic debate, over and over, can be traced to nearly incohate beginnings, in the revolving alternations of foundationalism and anti-foundationalism. This selection of essays traces the dragon to the broken shells of the dragon's egg, and we find much ado primordially sourcing in the Pre-Socratics, yet again powerfully in the dilemmas of Kantianism and Hegelianism, the first thuderclap of so much later sound and fury.	2002-01-04
1713144:US	50592435	R2T643IX9YXM41	0840768818	518907974	The Origin of Species Revisited: The Theories of Evolution and of Abrupt Appearance	Books	5	13	19	N	N	Resources for debriefing evolutionary theory.	This is one of the most comprehensive treatments of heretical Darwiniana ever penned and a must for anyone attempting to review the considerable underground legacy of second opinions about Darwinian theory. Too often one stumbles on a Darwin critique by accident. This work contains a massive bibliography of some 5000 items, with extensive quotations.	2002-01-01
1713539:US	50592435	R1H5UMQ7WGO27R	0262111098	861895725	Vaulting Ambition: Sociobiology and the Quest for Human Nature	Books	5	7	10	N	N	A Critique of Sociobiology	In a field of much debate and little substance, this is one of the most useful and cogent critiques of sociobiology of Lumsden and Wilson, with a very detailed examination of the limitations in their mathematical modelling.	2001-12-31
1714517:US	50592435	R2VUQHENG3DJMQ	0195135121	128986086	The Way of the Cell: Molecules, Organisms, and the Order of Life	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Mystery of Life	Times are changing and the rapid increase in our knowledge of the biochemistry of life needs the kind of upgrade we find in this charmingly written and quietly innovative paradigm buster whose opening question is that of the physicist Schrodinger, 'What is Life?' Leading us through a considerable tapestry on the way to its answer, the author points to a biology beyond that we have inherited from the past, and ends the book with an honest confession of the irresolvable enigma in this question. The suggestion of the need for a theory of morphogenesis in the discussion of the complexity of cellular genomics is a harbinger of a much to be hoped-for liberation from the current baffling nature of most books in this field, whose technical complexities seem cover for pulling one's leg with the magic of random self-assembly. Evolution is on the move.	2001-12-31
1716017:US	50592435	R3PG8NJB7KKZFF	0674000625	219608463	The End of the Past: Ancient Rome and the Modern West (Revealing Antiquity)	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Decline and Fall, ...and Rise	I read this work on the decline of the Roman Empire in association with Hardt and Negri's Empire (!), and this cast these two(quite different!) books in an ironic light. This account of the dynamics of Roman decline begins at the high point of the second century A.D. when the Roman system seems to reach a peak, as reflected in the Oration of Aristides, &quot;To Rome&quot;, with its celebration of the Roman achievement. More than imperial complacency, the oration points to a pinnacle of achievement on the scale of a universal history, in a mood not totally dissimilar to the 'end of history' concept of today.<br />Behind this mood of a victorious civilization lies a system starting to reveal its actual state of frozen development, unable to proceed in a linear direction beyond its premises, a civilization deprived of it future, with the outcome of its dissolution almost prerequisite to future advance. The author cogently assesses the economic factors in the context of the slave system, the 'blind alley between economics and politics'. As the book ends with a short essay on the resolution to this impasse in the displacement and recursion of modernism, with its economic breakthrough and basic liberties essential to that, we are left nonetheless with a sense of what might happen again, a civilization reaching the limit of its basic premises, unable to advance.<br />Well worth reading. If &quot;Empire&quot; is your cup of tea, read this work alongside of that.	2001-12-29
1720978:US	50592435	R29HX5ZX2YXXYR	0226495558	67298953	Meaning in History: The Theological Implications of the Philosophy of History	Books	5	6	15	N	N	Ideas for a universal history	This is one of the best introductions to the philosophy of history, because of, or in spite of, a sort of Kierkergaardian sour note guffawing at 'big history', that deals sceptically with its own subject matter. The author doesn't quite allow the secular rendition of this once Judeo-Christian monopoly to quite escape his 'hold your horses'. And the Burckhardtian opening is a giveaway to a slightly jaundiced view of modernism. I think this would be a paltry excuse not to start with this gem of a book. Also, one might consider that further research has uncovered the Zoroastrian roots to the sources Lowith finds in the Judaic tradition, cf. Norman Cohn's Cosmos, Chaos, and the World to come, along with Bruce Mazlish's The Riddle of History, and the works of Frank Manual.<br />In a Darwinian age, the subject of the philosophy of history has fallen on hard times, but as the theories of Darwin slowly but surely are exposed for what they are, this prodigious alternate legacy of historical understanding will prove--thar she blows, and there the Lowith's will be ready for anyone wishing to pull a fast one here also, a la Darwin.	2001-12-25
1726045:US	50592435	RM6TNRUCA55XM	0801418313	453227534	Evolutionary Theory: The Unfinished Synthesis	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Voices crying in the wilderness	It is a pity this work is out of print, for it is, along with Soren Lovtrup's Darwinism: Refutation of a Myth, one of the best critiques of Darwinian theory by a professional in the field. Now that the developmental tradition is resurfacing in the age of the genome, these clear warnings of the difficulties of theory are useful for putting the issues of evolution in perspective without the confusions of more popular anti-Darwin tracts. The book also contains invaluable historical commentary on many aspects of the shadow history of Darwinism.	2001-12-20
1730287:US	50592435	RUER70Z83U74P	0312120923	279479833	Alexandre Kojeve	Books	5	21	32	N	N	The Kojeve File	On the trail for suspects in the legacy of both the 'end of history' myth, and the sources of postmodernism (for those who find it problematical), we arrive at the Ministry Office of Alexander Kojeve, a remarkable figure towering philosophically over the last gasp of the Cold War and whose charming brilliance conceals a contradictory, if not toxic, mix of Marx, Heidegger, and Hegel. An admirer of Stalin, yet he saw before many the inevitable outcome of the Cold War, and thought America a more deserving victor of the ideological war of the twentieth century. Yet the strange result of his gesture in the interpretation of Hegel in his classic text lies in the subsequent dialectical swing to an opposite extreme in a version of Hegel that is really a neo-liberal false mustache. The spectacle of the end of history so conceived has a strange Nietzschean fevered charm, yet suddenly seems a bit sulphuric, as the hell with no-exit for the bourgeois Faust, the last man.<br />This work contains a good critical account of the Kojeve's life and work, along with discussions of his relations with Strauss, and his influence on early postmodernists, Alan Bloom, and the work of Fukuyama.	2001-12-16
1730887:US	50592435	R1U6X486ZPGYV1	067429503X	295032673	The Fate of Reason: German Philosophy from Kant to Fichte	Books	5	8	23	N	N	Endgames	The cultural context in which Kant's Critique of Pure Reason appeared was a complex and volatile mixture that responded to his work in a prolonged period of philosophical fireworks culminating in Hegel. This extremely interesting history of the first decade of reactions to Kant foretells in many ways the whole fate of modern philosophy, beginning with the first delayed review and then the attacks and challenges from Rheinhold to Jacobi and Maimon. One must wonder if this debate advanced beyond or frittered away the Kantian advance, as the outcome seems so very much to produce the reversal of original intent. Yet the issues raised by these critics are essential to consider, and often fail to appear in purely partisan accounts.  The history stops before even Fichte and yet zooming in on this curious scene in detail brings alive the real issues that will echo all the way to Schopenhauer, and beyond.<br />It is, presumably, a quibble to point out that the word 'fate' is severely cautioned at the begining of Kant's deduction. One should wonder at its usage here. Perhaps this comedy of sudden philosophical raining cats and dogs ambushing Kant is  a tragic fate in search of tragicomedy.	2001-12-16
1735705:US	50592435	R1ADGM8G29KXN7	0195141423	841963421	Our Secret Constitution: How Lincoln Redefined American Democracy	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Liberty, Fraternity and...  Equality?	The author asks us to put aside our conventional assumptions and confront a 'subtle and unusual argument', that the Civil War called forth a new Constitutional order, in the Reconstruction Amendments. This new order is so radically different from that established in the original Constitution of 1787 that it amounts to a new Constitution altogether, a second American republic, dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. The book becomes then a fascinating discourse on Lincoln's Gettysburg address, in the incremental transformation created by the war from preserving the Union to abolishing slavery. The outcome is the passage from disguised elitism to the real birth of popular democracy in the redemptive experience of confronting the contradictions latent in the birth of the American nation.<br />&quot;...we resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain...&quot;	2001-12-12
1747189:US	50592435	R12C2TLCSTPTZF	041592796X	635756908	Postmodernism and the Enlightenment: New Perspectives in Eighteenth-Century French Intellectual History	Books	5	4	14	N	N	Point, Counterpoint	The debate over the postmodern, in an excess of false controversy, has put the legacy of the Enlightement at satirical risk, and subjected it to a misleading series of ahistorical slanders. The final verdict should be to find the two eras to be one and the same era, by a concordance of rational skepticisms. This collection of essays, perchance the philosophes to strike back, shows the inevitable reaction to the postmodern turn, with a return to renewed consideration of the original culprit history. We find there the birth of the modern and the postmodern together, witness the scrutiny of rationality in the period condemned for this trait. One should think Rousseau has outsmarted the lot, as he was pre-modern and the first postmodern, and the very one to ignite the modern, as a principal suspect. The problem was never the Enlightenment as much as the mechanized version of its significance. And the irony is that the postmodern gesture will force the question to the surface.	2001-12-03
1747601:US	50592435	RIHDKB6GWWK37	0198239327	730337635	Marx and Ethics (Clarendon Paperbacks)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Shifting sands, a bedouin an his desert	This work on Marx and ethics uncovers, by hypothesis, three stages to Marx's development, and clarifies considerably the sudden discontinuity in his thinking in the period of _German Ideology_. The early Marx propounds a synthesis of Aristotle and Kant, and then we are in the midst of the abolition of morality. A more complex, perhaps ambiguous, ethical stance then appears in the later work. The confusions of these three men has been considerable.<br />Many critics berate Marx's claims on science, then preach against his lack of an ethic, in some garbled version of this thinking. The poignant truth would seem that the disposition toward science in the disillusion with Hegelianism, and the encounter with political economy, drove an approach to 'value-free science' that foretells the flaw in most so-called social science. There is something both profound and tragic in this triple stage pilgrimmage, though one must wonder if the very gesture toward science did not maim the beautiful and better starting point that was transmogrified in the reckoning of hypocritical Kantian categorial ethics and Ricardian brutal cynicism, that laid the groundwork for the whole system. A very engaging study.	2001-12-03
1750470:US	50592435	R1JHBPYSSBEOLX	0271018925	992590551	Engels After Marx	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Reification of Marxism	Engels' Condition of the Working Class in England is one of the great studies of capitalism, and initiated the early Marx into the study of political economy. These essays tell the tale of the endgame, the fate of the vehicle created by Marx so soon frittered away in the period of Engels, in the ambiguities of Hegelianism, the dialectic as science, and the dangers or blessings of revisionism. Echoes of Norman Levine's The Tragic Deception force the question of Engels betraying the fine edge of the original theoretical Marxism, fair or not, and an egregious issue to those who find the real and deeper flaws in Marx's foundations.  This version, however of the seminal Marx and the reifying Engels does not quite match the deeper difficulties, among them the obvious dangers of chaotification in making crypto-Hegelianism into the principles of a mass movement, in age also beset by the worst kind of positivist scientism.<br />One essay, Engels, Lukacs, and Kant's Thing in Itself, unwittingly and quite poignantly suggests the prophecy of the unstable post-Hegelian philosophic orphan spawning a dialectical tragedy that befell the whole project, in the era of Bernstein,and then Lenin.	2001-12-01
1752240:US	50592435	R434PSQC90QA	0312015771	852634804	Marx, Engels, and Liberal Democracy	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The meaning of 'democracy'	This work is an essential history of the usage of the term 'democracy' as this crystalized in the era of the 1840's leaving Marx and Engels stranded with a series of acute but now misleading assertions and critiques of its meaning and actual content. The more is the  pity since these views of Marx and Engels were at the onset far more democratic than those who fixed the word's meaning. Small wonder a legacy of bitterness festers here. To this is added the unfortunate confusion over the term, 'dictatorship of the proletariat, and the thinking of Marx is indeed ambiguous in this  regard. The perceptions of those passing through the revolutions of 1848 are hard to reconstruct, as the brief alliance of classes led to the victory of one and the betrayal of the rest. This factor is what is  responsible for the mistruct of 'democracy so-called'in the name of democracy in Marx and Engels, in a period before universal suffrage was an intrinsic part of the word 'democracy'.	2001-11-29
1752569:US	50592435	R1C2V4PPAAGV6N	0312160852	546580753	Karl Marx and the Intellectual Origins of Dialectical Materialism	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The evolution of an ism	The history of the emergence of the late codification called 'dialetical materialism' from earlier German philosophy must be one of the most confusing. This work resolves its perplexity by moving systematically from Fichte to Plekhanov and showing the stages of transformation of the Hegelian ideas of the Concept and the Universal and Particular in the Marxist legacy, as these notions directly entered the entire 'critique of political economy' that made up Marx's lifelong, much revised, and incomplete project, whose misleading end form is Capital. The root ideas of Fichte, Schelling,and the early Romantics, followed by the work  of the Left Hegelian starting point constitute a genuine labyrinth and the author's trail is a rout of the dilletantes in this regard. One could express the late current distaste for the whole subject, yet the importance of this history is, and will remain, one to reckon with. One sees at a glance the dangers on all sides of the thrashing about in phantom views of the emergence of Marxism with  its almost silent Hegelian echoes.	2001-11-29
1757488:US	50592435	R3QJ2YGF1DISE	0415001161	243083139	Marx's Proletariat: The Making of a Myth	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Class Struggles	The complex history of Marx's thought is often clarified by its critics. This work explores the core idea of the subject for a marxist and takes on Marx at the very foundation and beginning of his thinking, as his ideas crystalize from the early socialist movements of the Restoration Era. It is a tight analysis, and useful, if one that backfires, showing the problems, and yet the brilliance of the tactics adopted by Marx. The myth of the proletariat turns out to be no myth at all, and clarified by this kind of exposure of its starting point. Here we can see Marxism near the spectrum of the various gestating, and sometimes conservative, socialisms of the era. One might read Spengler's Prussianism and Socialism or an account of the fascist class war of the twenties to sense the rightness of Marx's viewpoint. And yet the myth of the proletariat is another of its exploitations, and the reality of Bolshevism and the fate of the proletariat in that context suggests the left has little interest in the proletariat, except as a pawn in its own game of domination, mephistopheles to the working faust.	2001-11-26
1786195:US	50592435	R2UQJTY9XIZXQB	0387941630	435694644	The Shaggy Steed of Physics: Mathematical Beauty in the Physical World	Books	5	14	14	N	N	The Action	This is an elegant and short, yet comprehensive, account of analytical mechanics that ties the whole subject from classical physics to quantum mechanics into a conceptual unity. Opening with an Irish tale of the shaggy steed, the work derives all the basics of the Langrangian and Hamiltonian with dispatch and has a quality of brevity and completeness that is remarkable, perhaps due to the nature of the subject matter itself, in the elegant enigmas of the 'action principle'. This field not being my specialty (an understatement), and after beating a hasty retreat to the Schaum outline of Lagrangian Mechanics for some quick refresher calisthenics I was able to scratchpad my way into a birdseye view of the subject, in a way that threw a new light on the genesis of Quantum Mechanics, the grandchild of these novel formulations of physics using their 'maths with a wallop' that began appearing in the generations after Newton. For crackshots in this field the more advanced material on invariants and Noether's theorem bind the material into a still deeper splendid unity. Amazing book.	2001-11-03
1787040:US	50592435	R1XS0EA2703V4U	0520082060	260989962	Before and After Hegel: A Historical Introduction to Hegel's Thought	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Dialectics and dragonslayers	This is a cogent short work on the central place of Hegel in modern philosophy,  containing a crisp account of the transition between the era of Kant and his successors. So this book is also most usefully about the 'before and after' of Kant. The interest of this transition springs from the decisive character, almost a spell, of the Hegelian influence, in the wake of the crisis of critical thinking and the unsettled questions of foundationalism  precipated by the reaction to the seminal work of Kant. Following the swift passage from Kant's system, through to the alternate universe of Hegelian logic and phenomenology, leaves a spellbinding enigma, whose outcome is never certain, witness the cascade of dialectical reversals of all the basic questions. From the critique of metaphysics to the Hegelian absolute science is a whitewater of dangerous currents, and this book tells its tale beautifully, for those who will follow the trail in the devout wish of being a philosopher.	2001-11-02
1789260:US	50592435	R9H5BXWI398LF	0521096197	848203121	The Social and Political Thought of Karl Marx (Cambridge Studies in the History and Theory of Politics)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	From Hegel to Marx	There are endless perspetives and their commentaries on Marx, but the extraordinary fact is that Marx is a moving target very difficult to understand. This classic text, also a handy companion and continuation to the author's work on Hegel, claims to rescue Marx from his friends and enemies, and is brave attempt at that, whatever a more radical view of the result might be. The author's doubloon of books, tracing the Hegelian sources of Marx, one on Hegel's theory of the modern state, and Marx's dialectical continuation, makes a useful exercise in reorienting one thinking on this forever important emergent critique of political economy and the basic 'crisis of 1848', which has never gone away.	2001-10-31
1789736:US	50592435	R2Y91LFHBTHF39	0802078427	533945554	Hegel Marx & the  English State	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The view from the British Museum, Marx and his Blue Papers	This is a vey unusual study with a neat research task and a fascinating twist, as it takes up the story of a factory inspector mentioned in Marx's Capital and examines the little know world of these inspectors as they struggled heroically with the British Industrial system of the nineteenth century in all its grotesque and almost endless resistance to even the simplest reform. A picture is worth a thousand words, and this portrait of the collision of the industrial class, from child labor to the plight of chimney sweeps, in the saga of exploitation makes crystal clear, where more ideological harangues fail, the issues that drove the industrial civilization into its twentieth century crisis. In the process the author uncovers an invisible Hegelian strain in Marx's later work and takes up the unusual and very enlightening task of delving into Hegel's views on the 'universal class' and their influence on Marx. This side of Hegel is seldom seen for what it is, and, agree or not, beggars the usual view of Hegel as an easy apologist for classical liberalism.	2001-10-31
1791031:US	50592435	RDYJ7S66CCU7P	0521098327	589320739	Hegel's Theory of the Modern State (Cambridge Studies in the History and Theory of Politics)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Dialectic of Freedom	Charming and robust introduction to the political thinking of Hegel, whose byways in the difficult cultural history of the 1820's requires a sound guide to forestall the many misimpressions possible, and actual, as the Hegel legacy shows. The lowkey acuteness of Hegel's ruminations on the state and civil society are not only classic but key to the understanding of the subsequent Left Hegelian hurricane that swept up Marxism in its path. Hegel is nearly a conservative masthead for some, but this book amply documents the complexity of Hegel's real views that Marx knew well, beginning with his youthful interest in implications of Adam Smith and Stuart, and his pessimistic asssement of the limits of civil society in relation to poverty. This strange constellation of contradictions in Hegel, once uncovered, suggests the reason for the explosive impact of his thought on the generation that followed, for good or ill. Highly useful book, and essential for some cautionary clarification of the anti-Hegelian shibboleths too often cast about.	2001-10-30
1809465:US	50592435	R1BQ3JJ4B9NBTR	0810113007	577939691	Hegel Myths and Legends (Studies in Phenomenology and Existential Philosophy)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The 'end of history' and a Hegel Myth	This fascinating book addresses, and counters, the many false interpretations of Hegel that have grown up from the start of his system to the present day. To be sure, these defenses, in the midst of much 'setting the record straight', might be challenged as partisan or excessively one-sided themselves, yet the fact remains that many attacks on Hegel have failed to grasp the nature of his thinking. This is not even a 'pro-Hegel' statement, being of equal relevance to those critics of Hegel who end up thrashing in the labyrinthine subtleties of his influence, and dialectical logic.<br />This works both ways, as Hegel is pressed into the service of ideology by his friends. Worth the price of the book twice over is the series and expose on the 'end of history' mythology now liberal propaganda a la Fukuyama. This material arriving via Koyre and Kojeve with assistant packaging by Alan Bloom constitutes the core Hegel phantom in State Department piece de resistance that graced the end of the Cold War. It is a good example of the Hegel you thought you knew, but definitely didn't.	2001-10-16
1809586:US	50592435	R13SB1VDTFVIJ4	0810113007	577939691	Hegel Myths and Legends (Studies in Phenomenology and Existential Philosophy)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	The 'end of history' and a Hegel Myth	This fascinating book addresses, and counters, the many false interpretations of Hegel that have grown up from the start of his system to the present day. To be sure, these defenses, in the midst of much 'setting the record straight', might be challenged as partisan or excessively one-sided themselves, yet the fact remains that many attacks on Hegel have failed to grasp the nature of his thinking. This is not even a 'pro-Hegel' statement, being of equal relevance to those critics of Hegel who end up thrashing in the labyrinthine subtleties of his influence, and dialectical logic. <BR>This works both ways, as Hegel is pressed into the service of ideology by his friends. Worth the price of the book twice over is the series and expose on the 'end of history' mythology now liberal propaganda a la Fukuyama. This material arriving via Koyre and Kojeve with assistant packaging by Alan Bloom constitutes the core Hegel phantom in State Department piece de resistance that graced the end of the Cold War. It is a good example of the Hegel you thought you knew, but definitely didn't.	2001-10-16
1811380:US	50592435	R1PRVZSEDLCI2Z	0465015638	592382897	Life Everywhere: The New Science Of Astrobiology	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Life Everywhere?	The dust jacket quotes Lynn Margulis who suggests a question mark for the title. Cautioned by the question mark, this book is an excellent introduction to astrobiology. Having reviewed Rare Earth by Ward et al., and being unaware of the surrounding debate behind the book, I recommend this rejoinder as highly useful dialectic to put the full context of the argument in perspective, in fact Amazon is selling the two books together. The book also contains some interesting considerations on the issues of divergence and convergence in evolution, and might have been more explicit in suggesting or discussing the issue of the 'inevitability' of life beyond the question of natural selection.	2001-10-14
1825711:US	50592435	R27LHUP2QTPEI4	0684834901	330157570	At the Water's Edge : Macroevolution and the Transformation of Life	Books	4	0	16	N	N	Shrinking Fossil Gaps?	Although critical of, and no fan of, Darwin's theory, I found this book a significant and interesting counter-challenge important for keeping up with the vast amounts of new research that do belie some of the standard criticisms of Darwin's theory, behind enemy lines speed reading. Part of the problem in the Darwin debate is the spiritual-material dilemma that makes any challenge to selectionism seem metaphysical, this closing on the 'species question' with miracle mongering. But that was never as such the point, and the facts of evolution being filled in, still with theoretical preconceptions to be sure, by new discoveries are essential updates for all parties to all arguments. This work is therefore a good curve ball for any Darwin critic, but still, I fear, no finally conclusive demonstration of the theory, beyond the exciting facts, and these include, for example, one of the thorniest transitions, that of the whales.<BR>Good to keep an eye on the facts, and these 'successes' can be misleading, so watch out. <BR>By the author of the PBS series on evolution.	2001-09-28
1825983:US	50592435	R2T1EK7H81F3N9	0684834901	330157570	At the Water's Edge : Macroevolution and the Transformation of Life	Books	4	0	8	N	N	Shrinking Fossil Gaps?	Although critical of, and no fan of, Darwin's theory, I found this book a significant and interesting counter-challenge important for keeping up with the vast amounts of new research that do belie some of the standard criticisms of Darwin's theory, behind enemy lines speed reading.  Part of the problem in the Darwin debate is the spiritual-material dilemma that makes any challenge to selectionism seem metaphysical, this closing on the 'species question' with miracle mongering. But that was never as such the point, and the facts of evolution being filled in, still with theoretical preconceptions to be sure, by new discoveries are essential updates for all parties to all arguments. This work is therefore a good curve ball for any Darwin critic, but still, I fear, no finally conclusive demonstration of the theory, beyond the exciting facts, and these include, for example, one of the thorniest transitions, that of the whales.<BR>Good to keep an eye on the facts, and these 'succcesses' can be misleading, so watch out. <BR>By the author of the PBS series evolution.	2001-09-28
1826042:US	50592435	R1ZF9H48JPYGEG	0684834901	330157570	At the Water's Edge : Macroevolution and the Transformation of Life	Books	4	1	15	N	N	Shrinking Fossil Gaps?	Although critical of, and no fan of, Darwin's theory, I found this book a significant and interesting counter-challenge important for keeping up with the vast amounts of new research that do belie some of the standard criticisms of Darwin's theory, behind enemy lines speed reading.  Part of the problem in the Darwin debate is the spiritual-material dilemma that makes any challenge to selectionism seem metaphysical, this closing on the 'species question' with miracle mongering. But that was never as such the point, and the facts of evolution being filled in, still with theoretical preconceptions to be sure, by new discoveries are essential updates for all parties to all arguments. This work is therefore a good curve ball for any Darwin critic, but still, I fear, no finally conclusive demonstration of the theory, beyond the exciting facts, and these include, for example, one of the thorniest transitions, that of the whales.<br />Good to keep an eye on the facts, and these 'succcesses' can be misleading, so watch out.<br />By the author of the PBS series evolution.	2001-09-28
1832433:US	50592435	R2YEMGNZMEE8ZL	0060199067	396649281	Evolution: The Triumph of an Idea	Books	4	1	19	N	N	Triumph of an idea, not of a theory	A well done book, and one that is useful, but with too much Darwub dogma. As the flood of new research comes in these popular presentations need to reflect the real problems of theory that are hard for the general public to find. This is the third triumphal book on evolution in a year, the other two being The Triumph of Sociobiology and The Triumph of Evolution (N. Eldredge). One must wonder if Darwinists are worried, and wish to plant suggestions in the minds of those wavering. Keep tri tri tri umphing! That said, this work is a very considerable sucess as an illustrated fact compedium on evolution, sure to prosper without my opinion, and would be entirely more useful if instead of the rote defense mechanisms in the Darwin debate the text instead simply presented the evidence in favor of evolutionary hypotheses and left the conclusion uncertain, which it still is. The alternative scenerio leaves even those who wish to profit from up to date accounts unsure of the whole spectrum of facts and deeper issues, and, more, the uncited literature of critics which they know is there. This works both ways, however, and this work exposes a few 'criticisms' current. The introduction by Gould is interesting if not the usual rant, in its tired insistence which isn't quite believable any more that Darwin ensured the last truth about man. He did not, and set the tone of future slanted presentations. This endless promotion of naturalism undefined yet preconceived resulting in theory therefore prebaked simply goes on and on, and becomes disillusioning. Is Buddhist nirvana naturalistic? In such a world science dogma is as dangerous as religious dogma.<br />This 'automatic naturalism' syndrome is grist for Phil Johnson's lambast against this tactic, and this time I found myself for the first time almost sceptical of naturalism! One needs time to recover one's bearings. It would be nice if textbooks could induce some science in the sense of saying, we don't know. It can never happen that the theory of evolution will succeed in the way ambitious promoters wish. Its lesser success as a general context of the natural facts of evolution should be enough, with the mystery of man's evolution remaining as it always was, an enigma. This book should be criticized because it is interesting at all points, one only wishes that a sure library item destined to forge the next generation of students had learned more from the Darwin debate, notwithstanding the need it validly expresses to rebuff the Designists.<br />Indeed, some of those critical battles have indeed been won by Darwinists against their critics, and for that reason one can never either take sides nor quite do without such partisan perspectives. Worth reading, but you must provide your own sceptical critique. There is no complete theory of evolution as yet, most certainly not for man. We are always in the same spot, the fact of evolution, but no true theorythe theory of evolution will succeed in the way ambitious promoters wish. Its lesser success as a general context of the natural facts of evolution should be enough, with the mystery of man's evolution remaining as it always was, an enigma. This book should be criticized because it is interesting at all points, one only wishes that a sure library item destined to forge the next generation of students had learned more from the Darwin debate, notwithstanding the need it validly expresses to rebuff the Designists. <BR>Indeed, some of those critical battles have indeed been won by Darwinists against their critics, and for that reason one can never either take sides nor quite do without such partisan perspectives. Worth reading, but you must provide your own sceptical critique. There is no complete theory of evolution as yet, most certainly not for man. We are always in the same spot, the fact of evolution, but no true theory	2001-09-22
1834478:US	50592435	R39HFC01SM6EO0	0813334829	590768788	Extinct Humans	Books	5	10	21	N	N	Family of Man	This is a controversial but interesting, and usefully up to date, account of the fossil record of human origins. The format and illustrations are excellent, and the book proceeds on the issues with dispatch. One need not agree entirely to find the book espousing a clear point of view otherwise in diminuendo. The review of Dawkins, and the authors' reply can be found at the book's website, extincthumans.com. The authors viewpoint challenges the view of linear descent by pointing to the branching of the genus Homo into many species.  The implication is of processes of extinction in the relations of these species. The book also brings in Schwarz's theory as expounded in his Sudden Origins. The result seems to challenge the Synthesis itself as seen in the views of such as Dobzhansky.<br />The viewpoint expressed is important enough to deserve direct recommendation, while at the same time one feels complelled to register a personal reaction that finds such books as category unable to produce a real theory of evolution, with this inability highlighted all the more in such a clear account. For one thing, the record suggests that while competition between the branches of man results in extinction of some of those branches this is a process that occurs after the basic evolutionary differentiation, as with modern man and the Neanderthal. In general one simply has to ask, where did we get man from at all. At the end there are some speculative suggestions about the source of an unknown major innovation, perhaps connected with language. Yet how is this possible in the time frame indicated? In any case it should be clear we do not have a theory of man's descent, the more so as Darwin's view is bypassed here. One of the last pictures in the book is of wooden flutes from ca. 30 kyr, and we must wonder indeed at the sudden great flowering of homo sapiens at the beginning of the last stage of his emergence. One has to wonder if the major core of the theory is not entirely lacking, for these cultural indications of art at the highest level are seen in history to be associated with something quite different from selectionist evolution. Finally, even if linear descent fails, it does not follow there is no directionality to evolution. These branching processes do not exclude some unknown process of discontinuous evolution leading beyond this differentiation. There is no proof of such a thing, but the evidence clearly suggests it, indeed cries out for it, and also suggests why the assumptions of current evolutionary theorists are forever struggling in contradictions.<br />Worth wrestling with this book, and reading Schwarz' Sudden Origins alongside.these cultural indications of art at the highest level are seen in history to be associated with something quite different from selectionist evolution. Finally, even if linear descent fails, it does not follow there is no directionality to evolution. These branching processes do not exclude some unknown process of discontinuous evolution leading beyond this differentiation. There is no proof of such a thing, but the evidence clearly suggests it, indeed cries out for it, and also suggests why the assumptions of current evolutionary theorists are forever struggling in contradictions. <BR>Worth wrestling with this book, and reading Schwarz' Sudden Origins alongside.	2001-09-20
1836532:US	50592435	R29I0CFT8GDY73	0679640401	166313123	Islam: A Short History	Books	5	4	9	N	N	Seal of the Prophets	It is very difficult to put the Prophet Mohammed and the genesis of Islam in perspective. Perhaps it is an equal mystery to the Moslem. The problem is also--the facts. The reality of the historical emergence of Islam is not born out by these facts. And the enigma of Mohammed at first defies normal historical logic, and the appearance of this, the last, of the great religions of antiquity at the fringes of civilizations going into medieval decline is a gripping tale that Armstrong tells very well, in a brief snapshot that might lead into deeper study, there to discover the darker picture of Islamic history and Jihad. Armstrong's analyis makes use of the idea of the 'Axial Age' religion, based on the idea of Karl Jaspers. The analysis of religion with this concept tends to create confusion, since, as with Islam, and with Christianity, few religions appear in the Axial Age, only their ambiguous sources, which, by this reckoning, includes direct opposites, theistic and non-theistic religions, such as Buddhism. So what is the significance? Further, as Armstrong notes, Jaspers, read carefully, wonders if the rise of the modern is not the 'next Axial Age'. The question of the Axial Age requires a finer analysis, to show that the period indicated produced something much more general than a series of religions. The Axial Age concept highlights the relativity of separate opposite religions. In fact, Classical Greece in its flowering is part of that Axial Age. This suggests the clear pattern indicated is simply not the 'breakthrough to transcendence' that the Axial Age is taken to mean. If this is true, then what is the status of all of these other religions, especially is the rise of the modern is another Axial effect, whatever all this means, if anything? The point must be to aspire to a sympathetic but firm demystification of the nature of these religions, something conventional sociology cannot manage either. So the enigmas remain. We can at least do away with factual enigmas. A work such as Paul Fergosi's Jihad at the other end of the spectrum might complement this idyllic portrait of the six century Arabic poet Mohammed spreading compassion. The correct perception of Islam is very difficult and demands multiple perspectives.mas. A work such as Paul Fergosi's Jihad at the other end of the spectrum might complement this idyllic portrait of the six century Arabic poet Mohammed spreading compassion. The correct perception of Islam is very difficult and demands multiple perspectives.	2001-09-18
1839570:US	50592435	R2LRMQB50FDO8E	0801487137	760699933	In Search of Deep Time: Beyond the Fossil Record to a New History of Life (Comstock Books)	Books	5	1	8	N	N	The detective and the evidence	This introductory account of the emergence of the methodology of cladistics begins with a foundational insight into the limitations on our views of deep time. &quot;Popular views of science assume that cause, effect, and purpose can easily be discerned.&quot; This new perspective is applied formost to those proposing narratives of evolutionary progress, but is as important for the more confident of Darwinian adherents to consider. Thence the book seems to proceed, one might think, to a balk, as it insufficiently makes clear this new understanding challenges the rote claims for natural selection. But overall this makes the book's point an essential consideration for any proponent of evolution who jumps from its fossil facts to a premature series of conclusions about the nature of theory. Between any two fossils a host of theories can be stretched, and the discipline of cladistics sets a more austere standard against the gaps in our knowledge, whose final outcome, modern homo sapiens, is simply not properly accounted for as yet in the current selectionist predestigations as to the descent of man.	2001-09-14
1839756:US	50592435	R2WLS4F483GK0L	0801487137	760699933	In Search of Deep Time: Beyond the Fossil Record to a New History of Life (Comstock Books)	Books	5	1	7	N	N	The detective and the evidence	This introductory account of the emergence of the methodology of cladistics begins with a foundational insight into the limitations on our views of deep time. &quot;Popular views of science assume that cause, effect, and purpose can easily be discerned.&quot; This new perspective is applied formost to those proposing narratives of evolutionary progress, but is as important for the more confident of Darwinian adherents to consider. Thence the book seems to proceed, one might think, to a balk, as it insufficiently makes clear this new understanding challenges the rote claims for natural selection. But overall this makes the book's point an essential consideration for any proponent of evolution who jumps from its fossil facts to a premature series of conclusions about the nature of theory. Between any two fossils a host of theories can be stretched, and the discipline of cladistics sets a more austere standard against the gaps in our knowledge, whose final outcome, modern homo sapiens, is simply not properly accounted for as yet in the current selectionist predestigations as to the descent of man.	2001-09-14
1840629:US	50592435	R1S00HCS1OX86W	1892941066	408408167	Dollars for Terror: The United States and Islam	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Our man in Taleban	At a time of renewed terrorist attacks in the United States, this book can provide some useful background information that goes beyond the portraits given in the News Media as an antidote to stereotypical and jingoistic portraits of fanaticism pinned on the Islamic world. The portrait of Bin Laden as a 'public enemy number one' requires a reminder that he is a creature of the American Intelligence system in a milieu of the most sordid operations of American espionage, international finance, the Afghan war, promotion of Islamism (not the same as Islam) with its connections to global capital, etc...  Seamy stuff. And an important caution at a moment when anger can spawn schemes of retaliation that could never match the reality powerful forces manipulate ad infinitum.	2001-09-13
1840708:US	50592435	R138OEKGJ93CJF	0393020185	790320833	The Seven Daughters of Eve: The Science That Reveals Our Genetic Ancestry	Books	5	4	7	N	N	The signature of deep time	This vivid account brings home the revolutionary implications of the new findings in genetics applied to mitochondrial DNA and its invariant traces travelling in a cellular time machine to our present. Beginning with the discovery and analysis of the Alpine man, the author takes us through the detective work and analysis of a series of enigmas now resolvable in the laboratory, from the origins of the inhabitants of the Cook islands, to the differences of Cro-Magon and the Neanderthal and the relationship of hunter-gatherers to farmers. The book traces the genes of modern Europeans to seven Eves or clan mothers, telling their tale in a series of charmingly whimsical snapshots. This epic told induces a fine sense of man's genetic unity as man, even as his mutational clock is ticking to record his journey. The author also brings in a strong case against racist conceptions of man, as the mitochondrial signature is found to pop up in the strangest of corners of a global mixture. Fascinating saga I found hard to put down.	2001-09-13
1841338:US	50592435	R2VMVES7R3CYFU	0691020051	366428910	Tragedy and Philosophy	Books	5	34	34	N	N	Birth of tragedy, death of tragedy	Finding this book on ... search engine was a pleasant surprise, the book now in paperback. There are not many good books, apart from literary criticism of individual works, attempting to analyze the phenomenon of tragedy, whose very definition is subject to an almost metaphysical confusion. Kaufmann's work is especially significant since, as the translator and commentator of Nietzsche's famous work, he also provides a corrective to the inspired but misleading views of that brilliant thinker. The view of tragedy emerging from some preposterous cult or ritual of the goat, and like theories, have been laid to rest by recent scholarship, which Kaufmann cites. The question of the birth and death of tragedy is great historical riddle and defies easy analysis, as is the attempt to find the common denominator between its short list of examplars. The great age of the Greek tragedians is subject to many misperceptions, such as among them the idea that Aeschylus, a bit of an optimist, invented the tragic view of life, etc... Nietzsche's attempt to blame Euripides for the 'death of tragedy' is shown to be somewhat misleading, while the reaction of Plato and the birth of philosophy in its wake remains a forever ambiguous advance.<br />Kaufmann's 'steady as she goes' scholarship assembles a host of interesting issues and digressions, from the Poetics of Aristotle to the great interpretation of tragedy by Hegel, based on Antigone. Kaufmann's ironic view of philosophy, born in the same time and litter as the genre of the tragedians, is an additional twist, with a somewhat acerbic conclusion that should put philosophers to a double take. Finally, the strange inability of modern drama to grasp the essentials, let alone continue this tradition, throws a great question mark on the universal history from which tragedy is born, and the mechanical history during which it cannot survive. The work might be complemented by George Steiner's The Death of Tragedy.	2001-09-12
1841465:US	50592435	R7MZJ5ZNG80SU	0300069162	176293683	The Death of Tragedy	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Fate of the tragical	If you have ever sat down with quill pen to attempt a blank verse tragedy, only to tear up your notes, this is the book for you. Tragedy as a genre remains the rara avis in the history of art, and its brief appearances seem to accompany periods of history going into high gear. Its reappearance in the early modern, followed by its steady decline in modernist amnesia, is a challenge to our basic conceptions of the technological quick fix, and the presumption our potential is open to our rational powers. Steiner reviews the enigma of this history, on and off, and focusses on the 'death' of the genre in more recent modern times, cataloguing the consistent string of failures even in many of the best later poets, from Dryden to Keats. Some might disagree with the verdict, yet one must confront the facts, which cannot, however, condemn us to the final demise of this artform, since its very history shows its sudden and unexpected rebirth. Yet the whole question is bound in some primordial evolution of language and its poetics, as these seem better tilled soil at the beginning than over the course of subsequent development, witness the richness of the first source, Homer's Iliad, the master chord from which the tragical melody sounds its echoes.	2001-09-12
1844302:US	50592435	RLEX4LIZTH4A3	0674792769	416137169	Schopenhauer and the Wild Years of Philosophy	Books	5	9	18	N	N	In the wake of Kant	Like particle tracks from an atom smasher the Kantian heritage splits into a multiplicity of outcomes of which Schopenhauer's line, beside the Fichte to Hegel sequence vociferously denounced by the philosopher, is the clearest and yet most mysterious. As if attempting to recover from the sudden ambiguity of the conceptions of the noumenal yet reinstating its foundations in the distractions of Hegelian dialectic, Schopenhauer in his brilliant grasp of all the fundamental issues recasts the Kantian basics into his own more streamlined perspective of the breakthrough, or breakdown, of transcendental idealism.<br />This biography tells the exciting tale of this exile in the generation of Hegel, where the unity of the original discourse suffers its passage through the rapids in the disintegration of a creative era of philosophy, the mirror image of Marx. The story told by Safaranski evokes perfectly the strange charm surrounding this irrascible and one-pointed genius, whose absurd dismissal by too much modern thought as some eccentric antique only shows philosophy has lost its way, and forgets the clear strains of his melody streaking a host of successors, beginning with Nietzsche, whose intoxication with the dangerous elixir of the noumenal exteriorizing as a concept of will, like a rock star on drugs, is a harbinger of the reversal of the source, in a tragic finale. Schopenhauer remains a great test of one's understanding of Kant, for he dared a further critique, with a result that demands a clear vision of the original critiques, without mesmerization of the texts. He also saw the direct connection, obvious, yet elusive, with the greater traditions of the Indian yogas and Upanishads as the European Enlightenment moves instinctively to grope beyond its victories to compensate for its limitations. Each will follow here, because he must, in the void between Hegel and Schopenauer, seeking the unity from a bifurcation, to which the philosopher bore constant witness, through these wild years.these wild years.	2001-09-09
1848608:US	50592435	RPOM3U3Q4IQA0	0520216121	865947898	Denying History: Who Says the Holocaust Never Happened and Why Do They Say It?	Books	5	6	13	N	N	The Holocaust as Fact	This is a tremendously important response to and study of the Holocaust denial syndrome, whose psychology constitutes one of the puzzles of historical perception and false interpretation. The authors, among other things, demonstrate the basic facts about this event, conclusively proving its existence. In the process they summon up a few of the strains of historiographical theory that have been warped to a false usage in service of complex sophistries of denial. While the analysis decisively settles the issue, one must wonder if presuppositions so irrational are open to refutation. In the end they are. And this work is an important step in that direction, and quite apart from anything else important reading for any student of historical theory.	2001-09-06
1848720:US	50592435	RNMHLHA3F0FF0	0674003322	759214424	Race and Reunion : The Civil War in American Memory	Books	5	4	7	N	N	War and Peace	The struggle for freedom is more than a one time battle and final victory, and this poignant work shows the complexity behind our carefully constructed historical visions and the active memory that goes into them. The way in which the monumental struggle of the Civil War ended off key in the bitterweet 'settlement' of cultural politics of North and South, erasing the dignity of the conflict, is told here with clarity and a factual redress of the reality behind war memorial.	2001-09-06
1859252:US	50592435	R2U5DL5VT7SOY3	0684865785	4578723	The Undiscovered Mind: How the Human Brain Defies Replication, Medication, and Explanation	Books	5	4	8	N	N	From Knowledge of Self to Self-knowledge	The author of the End of Science returns for a full inning well-played in a crucial debate--more dialectic--with a challenge to the claims of psychological science, and weighs in as a supporter in the hues of a mysterian perspective of the unknowability of self and mind. Next stop Zen monastery, after dusting off a stack of Kantian tomes. Altlhough we may not have reached the end of science, it may prove a thorny path to reach the beginnings of science, here, if what is wanted is a full roadmap for the mind of man whose perennial question is the riddle of the sphinx. To know the self to be unknowable would itself be the first foundation of any science. And it is true that a host of advances in the cognitive sciences tempt one to think that the science of mind is just around the corner. Even the sufis made such claims, so we should be tolerant, and not be like Queequeg to craft a coffin from false prophecy. This critique is important as a counter to the dogmatic assumption of much science promotion that its methods must succeed where a look at history shows a record of failures, stretching back to the nineteenth century and before. Nonetheless the mysterian position can declare defeat just at the point of success, and be both wrong to think we have reached the limits of our knowledge, and right to point to the real secret of mind, which lies not in its mechanics, but its conscious use that alone might unlock its deeper mysteries. One tends to root for both sides here, and Horgan's argument is important even as one keeps an eye on the next inevitable sneak attack on the fortress of man's interior. One might read this along with Kurzweill's The Age of Spiritual Machines with its fascinating if breathtakingly foolish-wise attempt to map out the dawn of the great computer brain. One should think that is such a conscious machine were ever invented its first priority would be to meditate, for beyond consciousness lies a further self-consciousness. Perhaps the last program for this brain would be 'final shutdown' as nirvana. Strange, but man is there already. Very engaging book, and it is a tonic to see somesone shrug off the excess of round-the-corner predictions with a dose of scepticism. Meanwhile Dr. Frankenstein is in his lab, and we know he won'tbe listening. Slam down the voltage clamp, end of science or not.for this brain would be 'final shutdown' as nirvana. Strange, but man is there already. Very engaging book, and it is a tonic to see somesone shrug off the excess of round-the-corner predictions with a dose of scepticism. Meanwhile Dr. Frankenstein is in his lab, and we know he won'tbe listening. Slam down the voltage clamp, end of science or not.	2001-08-28
1866461:US	50592435	R1W3KCDEHYAYE1	0465091288	491697624	Why Freud Was Wrong: Sin, Science, And Psychoanalysis	Books	5	20	36	N	N	Riddle of the Sphinx, Riddle of Freud	One looks back on the Freudian age with as much wonder at its flourishing as its sudden demise. The confusions of psychoanalytic thinking and the poor foundations on which it was laid were always concealed in the humanistic insights that gave the theory appeal and seeming cogency in the reign of positivism. This brilliant disguise behind an incoherent metapsychology hides a theory that was a casualty of the impossible demands placed on a science of psychology by the demands of reductionist science.  Finally, in the account of Webster, we see the fatal account of the details of record in Freud's early research whose great success seems more a brilliant feat of paradigm promotion than of any breakthrough in science. The oddity of Freud's thinking is and remains a mystery in itself. The legacy of the invisible strain of Schopenhauer botched is seldom seen here, and the source of confusion over the 'unconscious' can be instantly clarified by seeing this positivist nosedive of the earlier 'right sense of the noumenal self' and its unknowability. Perhaps this was the poignant ambition of the scientist triumphant here, where defeat was foreordained by the philosopher.<br />This book reads as a relief to anyone who survived the onslaught of this charming muddle with its impossible financial demands placed on the curse of being neurotic, even as one senses we have not heard the last of Freud.  One might fault the conclusion where sociobiology is seen to come to the rescue with still another confusion of the basic issues in still another ambitious science whose fate will be another book like this one.  But anyone who suffered the arm-twisting pretensions of this reign in thought will find a swift exit from the mesmerizing contradictions of Freud's theories. And yet a legacy of Freud remains as soon as the mind is freed to reconsider the issues from scratch without the fixation on certainty in the basic tenets. But for the moment it is important to simply a necessity to be free from the false claims and demands of what was an impostor theory, hard as it is to make that statement of one of the most enigmatic minds of the twentieth century. This book can be very helpful in simply moving on without looking back.ee from the false claims and demands of what was an impostor theory, hard as it is to make that statement of one of the most enigmatic minds of the twentieth century. This book can be very helpful in simply moving on without looking back.	2001-08-23
1872476:US	50592435	R2GB5P76WV1M02	0304352845	423622789	The Punic Wars	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Fulcrum of World History	After the era of the great Classical Age of the Greeks the slow motion shift of the geopolitical center of gravity westward in the Mediterranean world is reflected in the inexorable conflict of the Carthaginians and the Romans for dominance. This first-rate no-bones account describes this ominous collision of world history that lies at the threshold of the world of the Roman era to come. It also shows the strains on the cultural politics of the Roman Republic as this will disintegrate to produce the world of the Caesars and the Empire. The book comprehensively covers all three Punic Wars and clearly lays out the tale in a manner that still, for being told a myriad times, evokes dramatic suspense.	2001-08-18
1873047:US	50592435	R2MY58T1JBCGFE	0738202517	605413742	Out Of Its Mind: Psychiatry In Crisis	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A New World of Psychiatry	Having lived through the Freud to R.D. Laing Thorazine generation watching the disintegration of the system of psychiatric care, it is interesting to read this account of the subsequent fate of the profession and of renewed efforts to reconstitute some form of order from a great disorder. We have reached the age Freud predicted, in which knowledge of the brain would challenge the reign of psychoanalysis and allow a new foundation for both the study of psychology and the treatment of psychiatric disorders. Without agreeing per se to the new perspective offered,as such, the attempt to establish some new compassionate form of care in this psychiatrist ...patient bedlam gets an automatic if provisional endorsement, somebody do something, anything might be better than what just passed. The book also reviews briefly the considerable advances of neuro-psychiatric research and the new models of mind and brain. The viewpoint of the reductionist, fruitful as it is limited, will, one might think, sooner or later evoke the challenges of yesteryear in a new form, but these advances have changed the basics to the degree that a passing age seems-is-an age gone by. It is also true that reductionist psychology is uniquely limited in its perspective, acknowledges nothing whatsoever of the ancient heritage of man as visible in, say, the Buddhist tradition, and does this dogmatically, treating dissenters as mad. So, the cuckoo's nest issues are never too far away. The technocratic definition of man might turn a Foucauldian page on issues of madness and civilization. What is man?	2001-08-18
1885517:US	50592435	R29FC65K8OEGCZ	0691056978	426496811	Athens on Trial	Books	5	5	5	N	N	History and memory in the making of history	This excellent work recounts the history of views on Athens and democracy over history, with a reminder of just how recently our good opinion of democracy, and therefore of Athens, resurfaces as an aspect of modernism. This change occurring during the rise of the modern, and not really complete til the nineteenth century,at best, is a world historical change of paradigm that reversed the crypto-Platonic authoritarianism of the long millennia after the waning of the great Classical flowering in the onset of the Hellenistic. This restoration requires close study of the still ambivalent views even of many of our great early modern thinkers, and is seen in Rousseau's preoccupation with the Spartans. This work highlights an essential understanding required to understand not only the Greeks but the rise of modern democracy.	2001-08-08
1886014:US	50592435	R25L907FW49B83	0385260326	287129497	The Trial of Socrates	Books	5	8	10	N	N	I.F. Stone's Weekly reaches the Greeks	This is a compelling account of a confusing question our histories often manage poorly, in the conflict of democratic and philosophic traditions. In a manner not dissimilar to Popper's Open Society and Its Enemies, although an entirely different book and perspective, Stone looks at the context of Socrates' trial in a way often filtered out of introductions to Platonic perspectives. The ambiguity of Socrates, to modern minds, suddenly stands out, although that should not be troubling to anyone iterested in either the birth of grand philosophy or the evolution of democracy. Getting it straight in the who's who of who's for and against what is important. This is a complex scholarly field, and Stone is good at it, but, as some of the other reviews suggest, the final right interpretation of the evidence is not so easily obtained. Superb work from any view, and well worth reading.	2001-08-08
1898603:US	50592435	R1VF323HLXPCOU	0806119373	684686014	Homeric Greek: A Book for Beginners	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Menin aiede, thea	After New Testament Greek, Homeric Greek is arguably the easiest dialect of Greek to learn, although the Classical tends to be standard. As the world of classical languages seems to lose ground in the schools, the introduction to Greek via Homer would prove an interesting exploration. This chestnut on the subject is well-done, concise and well-organized,leading briskly into the strangely distant yet near world of both the Iliad itself and the mysterious age of the Archaic Greeks whose sudden precipitous surging advance in the eighth century gave birth in a rapid clip to our most fundamental traditions. The Iliad, by a strange mystery, came first before everything and yet has always remained the greatest of the epics. Surprising to find this old standby at Amazon. If you feel like learning a mysterious language and poetry, this book would make a fine hobby. I.F. Stone (Cf. Socrates on Trial) learned Greek at seventy. Your move.	2001-07-30
1934707:US	50592435	R1N992HW8Z23ZI	0520215575	507501497	The School of History: Athens in the Age of Socrates	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Thucydides, fair witness	Declared as an attempt by the author to understand the work of Thucydides, this history of the world of democratic Athens in the generation after Pericles is a low key yet gripping account of the maelstrom into which this great seminal era of political evolution passed. The great detail of the account matches both the magnificence and yet the somber context of the reality behind the usual glorified summary accounts of the world's first brief experience of true direct democracy, whose actual facts are at certain points almost an alarming eye-opener, from the immediate collision of class struggle in almost canonical form to the duress of empire, and the outcome of civil war. The work of Aristophanes, and its direct echoes of this period, especially stands out better understood in this blow by blow, as does the ambiguous division of history just here, with respect to its democratic ideals and its first dissenter, Socrates.  The work brings home a claim to the solution of the mystery of Thycidides composition, that the rise of note-taking in this era vindicates the relative accuracy of the speeches long thought to be imaginative recreations. It is a strange account, rendered eerie in the author's meticulous drumbeat march through the labyrinth of recovered details.	2001-07-03
1940841:US	50592435	R1NMQL7UVV7UWI	0674003721	44827033	The Century of the Gene	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Beyond the Gene Myth	An interesting capsule view of the history of genetics and a penetrating discussion of the gene myth as it emerged, persisted, and then foundered in a more complex reality. The exploding field of genomics, and bioinformatics has left our perceptions a decade behind, and we are only beginning to 'come to' and realize we are in a different world of biology. Gene regulation, and the evolution of evolvability have to a large extent confounded one aspect of the standard Darwinian view, and we are confronted by a new bio-computational reality that leaves even our sense of the computer on the junk heap of primitive machines. A good reality check but the passage into the new worlds of DNA should induce courage to state the obvious inadequacy of Darwin's natural selection. Darwin seems incongruous at this point.	2001-06-28
1944655:US	50592435	R3LH0HUVCQHGIC	0520214994	727351290	Possible Experience: Understanding Kant's Critique of Pure Reason	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Confusions of 'Idealism'	One of the great confusions of philosophic language is the term 'idealist', and one who suffers from it the most is the philosopher Kant. In a relatively brief and extremely clear commentary on the Critique of Pure Reason Collins attempts to set the record straight by an exposition of Kant's unique juxtaposition of 'transcendental idealism' and 'empirical realism'. This confusion began early, and has persisted, and one must wonder if the term 'transcendental idealism'  can ever escape its history and find its real home in the language of 'possible experience'. One observes the many debates where the suggestions and insights of Kant might assist the clarification of issues gone metaphysically berserk, only to find discussion clipped by the muttering charges of 'idealism'. And that is a loss to the evolution of cultural thought, if it can be called that, as it endlessly recycles the elemenatary errors Kant was at pains to debrief.  Hopefully, Collins' work can perform emergency ambulance service here in some aspiration to recover our own cultural belongings from oblivion.	2001-06-26
1949000:US	50592435	R1RH84HD4FFC4P	0521426898	997230901	More Heat than Light: Economics as Social Physics, Physics as Nature's Economics (Historical Perspectives on Modern Economics)	Books	5	17	21	N	N	Imaginary worlds of theory	This fascinating upgrage of the author's earlier _Against Mechanism_ gives a severe account of the state of mathematical economics as it has been since the marginalist revolution. It is a reminder that mathematical technique and basic modeling are two separate activities and that understanding what it is that one is attempting to make into a science is not so easy. It is probably true no deterministic mathematical science of any type known is possible in a medium involving human consciousness. Yet the obsession to treat these different domains of discourse as analogous to physics or amenable to predictive science via the apparatus of differential equations simply refuses to die. It is a peculiar history, that some very good mathematicians of the nineteenth century, who understood the physics, found bizarre at the start, before the bad habits of phantom thinking became institutionalized. Mirowski's expose of the  whole game is priceless, and almost unnerving. Hm, ideology perhaps Very important book.	2001-06-22
1958953:US	50592435	R21MXH5LS7A3K9	0521497043	573433178	Kant: A Biography	Books	5	7	16	N	N	Dialectic of Illusion, and a Critique of Reason	World history shows a crisis of the philosophical. In the wreckage of metaphpysical systems and the crash landing into modernism of the great religions, the rise of science in turn encounters a new dilemma in the one-dimensional flatland of empiricism. The visions of a ghostseer become a desert of empty reductionism, the world of the modern bedouin. At a critical turning point in history, we see the philosopher Kant attempting to discover the middle way between these extremes. This fine biography covers the full ground of Kant's adventure into the unknown, from the earliest period of his Pietist background to the close of his system at the time of the French Revolution. And a remarkable life it is, stretching the bow between the most ordinary existence and the most extraordinary flowering of the philosopher, as if his life were itself an 'idea for a universal history', for it becomes an echo and recursion of the whole endeavor of thought's evolution, even as it mutates into a new future. The mysterious stages of Kant's development, and his late yield of maturity are a riddle of contemplation in action, as we see an age passing in many thunders beside this quiet yet more fundamental revolution after which no philosophical endeavor will be the same.  Indeed, even our most newly sanctified theories of evolution will soon reckon with this double whammy that haunts the rationalist metaphysician and the empiricist, for such theories contain purloined the hidden version of the dialectic of illusion that will reduce even such to rubble if they cannot find the real man of practical reason and ethical self-consciousness.	2001-06-14
1980299:US	50592435	R1F12K4RXWXV4W	0192861298	135276594	Created from Animals: The Moral Implications of Darwinism (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	4	4	24	N	N	Created from Animals--or Evolved?	Comparable to Ruse's _Taking Darwin Seriously_, but written just before the high tide of the sociobiological rendering of ethical questions, this work cogently, though somewhat naively, attempts to assess the implications of Darwinism for morality and religion. Overconfidence in the mechanics of natural selection is the only word to describe the result of such efforts, given in every sense a 'bum steer' by the dogmatic mantras of Darwinian selectionism. Man could suffer hybris, take himself to be special, and certainly Darwinism is a slap to this disposition, but it does not follow that if we accept evolution, or the proposition that man morphs from the domain of animals, that we must renounce the deeper side of _homo sapiens_, a side truly visible in man, and man only, however latent or occasional early signs of this might be in the species cousins, the great apes. And this deeper side of man gives signs of being a potential that emerges, not as adaptation, but as a self-consciousness at first superfluous, and barely used, and seldom for purposes of survival. Perhaps that is a sign of an evolution we are unaware of. Here the other religion is the Buddhist, nor miracles here, only that potential that nature leaves alone, for man must 'evolve' it in freedom.  Here Wallace himself became suspicious, and wondered how, as a more extreme selectionist than Darwin, one could account for this 'virtual man' behind the creature-hominid. Rachel's answer seems to be to simply eliminate the question through the prior given, which is not given at all, that natural selection is proven, when the example is the counterevidence! We should instead query the mysteries of time for deeper answers.  One issue bedevils the debate, the so-called naturalistic fallacy. While it was certainly brilliant for G. Moore to pull the rug from under Spencer's ethical naturalism with his separation of ethics and nature, a strange contradiction arises in this tacit acknowledgement, it would seem, of the need for non-naturalistic explanations of values!! Surely, the trap is not in Moore's subtle argument, but in what he called it, the 'naturalistic' fallacy. This description was not present in Hume's first use of this argument, as he cleaved the 'is' from the 'ought' in his _Dialogues_. We may not derive the 'is' from the 'ought', but we cannot derive even the mere 'is' of man from string theory either! Let alone the 'ought'. The whole question rests on a quagmire of incomplete foundational physics and its tendency to suggest a given set of premises, themselves in motion. The question of reduction is altogether a dark pit, and we cannot assume the 'ought' has no emergent source in nature. The dilemma is that while the 'naturalistic' fallacy, so-called, may be indeed fallacious, it does not follow from its _name_ that nature cannot 'evolve' ethics in some other fashion that is a mystery to us. In fact, history gives us alternate suggestions. Indeed, the emergence of religions themselves become orphans in Darwinian accounts, when the scientific demand would be for a naturalistic evolutionism that includes values! We assume thus that evolution is univalent, never changes, and does all in one stop mechanics, natural selection. A naturalistic fallacy indeed! This only deals with a few strains of this clearly expounded book, that left me for one shadowboxing, and whose central perspective seems doomed to frustration, for the secularization of religion seemed better addressed before Darwin, than after, as the immense resistance his theory created suggests. For after Darwin, a traditionalist was handed a golden argument in the superficial character of selectionist explanation. Before, all parties knew the hard uphill of the philosopher was the lot of all, no gimmicks allowed.  One should hope for a new theory that can produce a naturalistic account of the evolution of religion, and change the confusing description of the 'naturalistic' fallacy.  Worth reading, although onebegins to fear the lack of foundations for any Darwinian account of morality.  But when all is said and done, one can only agree with Rachels that the unity of man and animals is a point of victory against pomposity for Darwinism and the idea of evolution, taken more generally.begins to fear the lack of foundations for any Darwinian account of morality.  But when all is said and done, one can only agree with Rachels that the unity of man and animals is a point of victory against pomposity for Darwinism and the idea of evolution, taken more generally.	2001-05-29
1992718:US	50592435	RBMTF532CTL13	087049984X	234695961	Darwinian Myths: The Legends and Misuses of a Theory	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Figments of Darwinian Historical Imagination	This is a superb snapshot of the legend-creation process that has always braided with the legacy of Darwinism. Ideology has been described as a lack of information, and the absence of historical knowledge in depth of the development of Darwinism by the general public has left the field to sound bite summaries, the fodder of legend, myth, and outright falsehood. Both sides of the debate have shown their colours here, although the genesis of Social Darwinism has been the worst of the whole process.  The book covers a range of topics from the hollywoodization of the Huxley-Wilberforce debate, to the strange tale of Darwin's death bed confession, from the Spanish Civil War to the questions of eugenics, and finally the fearful shadow of fascism at the end of the whole business. The author starts with a fact little grasped, that Darwinism began with many of the tactics in their early forms of the modern publicity machine. The clear objections of many critics, in the confusion of the fact of evolution versus the theory of the mechanism, counted little as the promotion of the Darwin camp ensured the success of Darwin's theory irregardless of its deeper scientific merits as it tagged along with the timely spread of evolutionary thinking in general.	2001-05-20
1992940:US	50592435	R3BREBNJ68RJ97	0691033307	34838905	The Garden in the Machine	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Games of Computer Life	Great little introduction to the world of artificial life. Short, but to the point, and without the exaggerated claims of many of its proponents trying to use these models to justify Darwinian theories, the book gives a glimpse of the main elements of the field. We must be seeing the evolutionary theories of the future, the first real ones, being born here.	2001-05-20
2000837:US	50592435	R3K6K3FH62H699	0415232643	287324173	Reclaiming Evolution (Routledge Advances in Social Economics)	Books	5	2	7	N	N	Evolution of the Left	The title says it all as this cogent work opens with a declaration of independence from sociobiology, and proceeds to a reexamination of social evolutionary thinking, the idea of 'evolution' in free fall. Ay there's the rub, what does the free floating concept of (social) evolution really mean, and what is its true relation with organismic evolution? This question has never found an answer, because even the theory of organismic evolution is incomplete. To escape the clutches of E.O. Wilson is not to escape those of S. J. Gould, and the assumptions of basic Darwinism still bedevil analysis even as the banishment of all ideas of progress simply compounds the confusion. For the idea of progress in the docket of ideology, in addition to its excision from all discussion of random evolution, leaves all in confusion. We should a more complex theory to explain progression in one form, as macroevolution, and the individual's actions, as freedom,in another, as a sort of microevolution.  In any case, we are still 'looking for the answer',without the gimmicks of sociobiological reductionism and this book explores a host of interesting avenues in a liberating, though eclectic mix of themes from Veblen to Marx.  Very stimulating work, and some real nose-thumbing at the Social Darwinist plot thickener from the right wing Darwin gang. Still, one is left with the question, where is the theory? A more universal history might give us the clue to an answer.	2001-05-13
2001015:US	50592435	RND6AH7PWQI8A	067446706X	59924244	Mystery of Mysteries : Is Evolution a Social Construction	Books	4	2	10	N	N	The Little Rascals	A polished mini account, almost a bit slick, that is an amusing read, of both evolutionary epistemology and the history of the evolutionary hypothesis, including a family album from Erasmus Darwin to Sepkowski, the little rascals who have done so much to change our perceptions of the cosmos and man, by hook or crook. Opening on the offensive in the 'science wars' with its subtitle question, Is Evolution a Social Construction? the book proceeds to politely smother Popper and Kuhn in the first chapter, no doubt because of the rumour that Darwin's theory is not falsifiable and the disturbing resemblance of the whole research project to one of Kuhn's paradigmatic Chaplinesques. That evolution, quite surprisingly, should have poetic origins in the heroic couplets of Erasmus Darwin is proof of its heroic stature, however much its epistemology battles resemble the Trojan War. Ruse's inclusion of this vigorous Darwin progenitor is entirely apt, and an overdue feature of this genre. It is interesting to see the close packing of the whig families and science themes of the Industrial Revolution's inventors and promoters attendant at the birth of evolutionism. But we should not forget the Lamarckian radicalism that founded the subject, and the Darwinian conservatism that packaged it as both a theory and a social ideology.  This account of Darwinian epistemology in its changes is not of the naive variety so common although the defense of evolution and the theory of its mechanism is still too embraided in the main confusion. This basic defense is essential if we take too seriously the obvious evidence of the social construction of evolution.  It would seem that it is the theory of natural selection that threatens the sound foundation of evolution as fact with the charge of being a 'social construction'. It is a bit facile to exempt the whole research project from the charge of being 'culturally value-laden' if the main idea of 'how evolution happens' is so suspiciously cousin (to repeat this for still another time) to a well-known economic process. One difficulty is that of separating evolution in the past from evolution in the present, since the collation of the two confuses the basis of the theory's application. This &quot;Oedipus&quot; effect, described by Karl Popper, in his Poverty of Historicism, confounds action in the present with the assumption that survival of the fittest will improve, shall we say, brains, since it did so once before. If this assumption is false, then the future is betrayed and our action incoherent. This belief that more of the same is entailed as reverse duty, for coneheads to come, from apes in the past, is proof that 'theories' might be the curse of the modern age as much as myths were in the past. This fallacious head-scratcher lurks in the unconscious of every generation since Darwin, and strongly demands the division foreseen by Huxley of evolution into a theory of 'two evolutions', past, and present, with some explanation of the boundary. The inability to account for this 'evolution against evolution' is the mysterious component missing, and the reason, perhaps, that 'evolution still can't cut the mustard', to invoke the title of the last chapter.  Worth reading with raised eyebrows. The paradigm clock is ticking.repeat this for still another time) to a well-known economic process. One difficulty is that of separating evolution in the past from evolution in the present, since the collation of the two confuses the basis of the theory's application. This &quot;Oedipus&quot; effect, described by Karl Popper, in his Poverty of Historicism, confounds action in the present with the assumption that survival of the fittest will improve, shall we say, brains, since it did so once before. If this assumption is false, then the future is betrayed and our action incoherent. This belief that more of the same is entailed as reverse duty, for coneheads to come, from apes in the past, is proof that 'theories' might be the curse of the modern age as much as myths were in the past. This fallacious head-scratcher lurks in the unconscious of every generation since Darwin, and strongly demands the division foreseen by Huxley of evolution into a theory of 'two evolutions', past, and present, with some explanation of the boundary. The inability to account for this 'evolution against evolution' is the mysterious component missing, and the reason, perhaps, that 'evolution still can't cut the mustard', to invoke the title of the last chapter.  Worth reading with raised eyebrows. The paradigm clock is ticking.	2001-05-13
2002102:US	50592435	RFTEUJ3CKTQEN	039304923X	245419187	Karl Marx: A Life	Books	5	9	12	N	N	The Future of the year 1848	This is a rambunctious and vivid portrait of Marx the man, too often Marx the myth, as an extended snapshot of the individuality of his achievement, no force of history, a man. There is something awesome in the challenge of two men, Marx and Engels, to the unfolding of the capitalist juggernaut in its steamroller immensity of industrial transformation, imperialism and violence, as the disappointment and disillusion of the hopes of the French revolution turn into the malformation of the liberal modernist age. What is to be done? Can such a vast system change course, is there a fix, can anyone be heard in the din of social mechanization? It is testimony to some weakness in the all-powerful system, that a great underswell rose from these men to tidal wave proportions.  There is something more than brilliant in Marx's downfield razzledazzle through the ruins of the Hegelian system, encountering the world of Ricardo, to conceive a universal history in this hybrid of material and ideal concepts.  The meaning of democracy is in the balance in the rushing years before 1848, after which the quaint hope universal suffrage might create a socialism by the vote of workers is met with the rigged plebiscite dictatorship of the last of the phantom Napoleons, in the litany of cooptations that greet all efforts to make the triad of liberty, fraternity, and equality more than a slogan.  Cf, also, Isaiah Berlin's Karl Marx, and Jerold Seigel's Marx's Fate.	2001-05-12
2002410:US	50592435	R1BSYG14XUGQFX	1573922420	317574057	Taking Darwin Seriously: A Naturalistic Approach to Philosophy	Books	4	3	21	N	N	Evolution of Ethics	This work is of ironic interest to a skeptical critic of  natural selection for the clarity of its presentation with the resultant demonstration of the exposed flank of Darwinism in relation to issues of ethics, indeed philosophy in general. This is a new edition of Ruse's book, with its embrace of sociobiological thinking, with an additional chapter that amounts to not much except indignation on the recent attacks on evolution by the Intelligent Design movement.  A strange thing happens as the philosopher construes a theory of ethics in relation to evolution. We see the proper and interesting treatments of Hume, Kant, substantive and meta-ethics, with a prompt dismissal of some of the more baseless versions of sociobiological thinking. Hume has won out, Kant is off the team, all is empirically nip and tuck and we are sailing away under epigenetic steam.  The problem as ever is the inadequacy of the basic assumption, that natural selection is the prime mover of all forms of evolution, and therefore an ace in the hole for the evolutionary thinker, a problem solved. Without that ace, the Darwinist is stripped of his science medal and cast out with less assurance into the ranks of bedouin philosophers, and other hard luck cases trying to play Socrates in public places, probably between bumming meals.  The treatment of Kant would suggest the basic difficulty in the whole project of evolutionary ethics, granting Ruse's reasonable and not uncommon (though probably wrong!) critique of the Categorical Imperative. But behind that issue lies the deeper significance of the Kantian challenge to the combined failure of rationalism and empiricism, along with its exploration of the antinomy of freedom and necessity that forever haunts producing a theory of ethical evolution. Kant's thinking forewarns sternly of the concealed reverse-metaphysics of Darwinian empiricism, and experience shows us that 'natural selection' is really a metaphysically charged thesis, indeed precisely because of its erstatz claims on all ethical questions, as a decision procedure against all other philosophizing. Something wrong somewhere! In general, we must believe that natural selection resolves the interiority of 'self' that is presupposed in a creature, but no creature thus is truly found by a Darwinist. In the end, the philosopher of evolution must ask what grounds he has in general to select among philosophies, if a theory of evolution must explicate the emergence of philosophizing. Hegel, whatever we think of him, knew he had to explicate 'all thought' for an account of evolution.  We should remain suspicious that no theory is possible that includes the present, and that man has not yet evolved an ethical understanding to do evolution at all. Without some statement as to the cutoff between history and evolution, we are confronted with a theorist inside evolution trying to observe what he is in fact still evolving. These paradoxes nullify all hard claims to science in the basic endeavor.because of its erstatz claims on all ethical questions, as a decision procedure against all other philosophizing. Something wrong somewhere! In general, we must believe that natural selection resolves the interiority of 'self' that is presupposed in a creature, but no creature thus is truly found by a Darwinist. In the end, the philosopher of evolution must ask what grounds he has in general to select among philosophies, if a theory of evolution must explicate the emergence of philosophizing. Hegel, whatever we think of him, knew he had to explicate 'all thought' for an account of evolution.   We should remain suspicious that no theory is possible that includes the present, and that man has not yet evolved an ethical understanding to do evolution at all. Without some statement as to the cutoff between history and evolution, we are confronted with a theorist inside evolution trying to observe what he is in fact still evolving. These paradoxes nullify all hard claims to science in the basic endeavor.	2001-05-12
2006509:US	50592435	RQ60LSJ0T35C3	0415065690	683134824	The Poverty of Historicism (Routledge Classics) (Volume 88)	Books	5	8	17	N	N	The Poverty of Anti-Historicism?	This classic little work is a must read for any theorist of history and evolution, which is not to say that one agrees altogether with Popper's formulation. Reflecting Popper's experience both with issues of scientific methodology and the ideologies of scientism, the work ends in a paradoxical mode with respect to the idea of a science of history and/or evolution.  The invisible influence of the antinomies of Kantian critical thought buttress the basic argument, as it transforms the term 'historicism' itself from its nineteenth century usage into something different, in a confusion of terminology that does not invalidate the basic thrust.  Popper's insight remains fundamental even if the implied usage directed at more rigid forms of Marxism narrows its scope.  We live in an age that has reinvented the fallacy of (Popperian)historicism in the search for causal social theories of all types, and the results are always in the same difficulty that Popper points to. If a deterministic theory bent on predicting the future fails for the reasons Popper gives,the implication that there can be no genuine 'universal history' fails as a necessary consequence. For such a history might embrace rather than be contradicted by Popper's argument, leaving us to wonder if there is not also a certain poverty to 'anti-historicism' in the sense of throwing out the baby with the bath, i.e. finding history to be without meaning! In any case, a classic little work. The section on the &quot;Oedipus Effect&quot; invokes the tragic theme, with Popper as a sort of theoretical Tiresias, grizzled and omimous. Read.	2001-05-08
2009624:US	50592435	R28Q7ETJ9V1DSY	0691019681	649589095	The Open Society and Its Enemies, Vol. 1: The Spell of Plato	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Evolution of the Open Society	This work is by now a most considerable classic whatever one's conclusions, multiple perhaps, about its many theses, and by any standard a compelling study, must read. Becoming well-known after World War II almost as an apologia of liberalism, its roots are in the thirties when the young socialist Popper sees the consequences in action of misapplied theories. Among its many sides, apart from its great argument about historicism, as seen also in The Poverty of Historicism,the work is notable for its sketch of the curious evolution of democracy in world history, and the development of its argument in a discussion of the birth of Greek Democracy. Its discussion of the Great Generation highlights one of the most crucial moments in world history, when democratic freedom struggled to be born. One problem with the argument here is that the opposite of an open society is,indeed, a closed one, but a tribal society is wrongfully typified as such. Popper fails to see that it is more than the transition from tribalism that is involved. It is not the antithesis with tribalism, but the 'openness' of the still semi-tribal yet cosmopolitan Greeks compared with 'closed' societies like the Assyrian or Persian empires.  From this period  springs Popper's critique of Plato, for which Popper is notorious among some, hero to others. Plato in the philosophic tradition deserved this correction, though not always the rebukes Popper gives him.  One of the curiosities of this work is the limitation of its own successful argument, in the sense that its implied rejection of universal history is belied in the very history of democracy that it portrays. Why did democracy appear when it did, and why did it fail to survive? A strange contradiction lurks in this classic portrayal as it unwittingly shows the grounds for a post-historicist universal history. For the appearance and definition of the open society and its evolution are two different questions.  This book is so filled with invaluable this and that, from the text to the notes, that it should linger on one's desk as a source of innumerable study projects.this and that, from the text to the notes, that it should linger on one's desk as a source of innumerable study projects.	2001-05-05
2024880:US	50592435	RGLSVGFXQ0R08	0521470536	658671823	Karl Popper - The Formative Years, 1902-1945: Politics and Philosophy in Interwar Vienna	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Young Popper	We tend to see Karl Popper from a later perspective of the years of the Cold War. And yet his roots explain a number of enigmas surrounding his work.This is a very compelling and very useful portrait of the early years of Karl Popper in the age of Wittgenstein's Vienna, and the interwar years. The background of Popper's The Poverty of Historicism, for example, lies in the methodological debates of this prior era, and the background given in the book greatly illuminates some of this classic's oddities. Popper's youth and formative years, when he was a socialist,and a socialist soon confronted by socialist theories in action, are brought out against the background of the extraordinary period after World War I and the calamities swiftly following one another. Through all of this we see Popper's distinctly uncharacteristic and yet brilliant development as he becomes a philosopher of science, in counterpoint to the logical positivists, with whom he was always confused. All this coming to fruition in the mid-thirties and the onset of Nazism, as Popper joins the endless list of refugees from one of the most creative cultural generational series of modern times. In fact the portraits of many of the figures of this time, with many of whom Popper interacted, makes up a striking portrait of cultural history. One is oddly reminded of the inverted resemblance to George Lukacs, another scion of this era, whose different response and fate to one and the same chaotification and reification of theory in practice echoes as a mirror image the swiftly conservatized The Poverty of Historicism, beside the equally classic The Open Society and its Enemies. The brilliant tactics of these works should make the history told by Hacohen of interest to any leftist, for the lines of counterargument stand clear, if only the point Popper made is understood. And, indeed, this greater context shows perhaps the limitations of these works. The critique of historicism is really about what Popper called the Oedipus effect, the interaction of theory and practice, and the outcome of the 'future of theory'. That future was the present, and had no theory, save that in the minds of those embarking on disorderly realizations, and this was the present of the Young Popper, a living figure indeed before the older conservative we know. Popper's courage in attacking Plato was so peculiar to some, that we forget that it attempted a virtual course in universal history itself, in that the birth of philosophy has always been haunted by the Platonic rejection of democracy. And therein lies a flaw in Popper's thinking,perhaps, if we can find a universal history that is not an historicism. We can, but that is another book. Fascinating work, and for many reasons, not least the curious history of logical positivism, and the suggestion of the unseen Kantian strain in Popper's thinking, often not evident in the surface accounts. Recommended.the Oedipus effect, the interaction of theory and practice, and the outcome of the 'future of theory'. That future was the present, and had no theory, save that in the minds of those embarking on disorderly realizations, and this was the present of the Young Popper, a living figure indeed before the older conservative we know. Popper's courage in attacking Plato was so peculiar to some, that we forget that it attempted a virtual course in universal history itself, in that the birth of philosophy has always been haunted by the Platonic rejection of democracy. And therein lies a flaw in Popper's thinking,perhaps, if we can find a universal history that is not an historicism. We can, but that is another book. Fascinating work, and for many reasons, not least the curious history of logical positivism, and the suggestion of the unseen Kantian strain in Popper's thinking, often not evident in the surface accounts. Recommended.	2001-04-22
2027634:US	50592435	R1XTHD4UHKNNZM	0226702669	276417279	The Shape of Life: Genes, Development, and the Evolution of Animal Form	Books	5	2	4	N	N	The persistence of basic animal body plans	This is a compelling gateway to a new perspective on evolution from the emerging developmental perspective. As the author notes at the beginning, the basic animal body plans are half a billion years old. With that the book embarks on a fascinating exploration of the relationship of evolution to development and in the process shows how our understanding, in the age of hox genes, is undergoing rapid transformation. Very interesting work indeed.	2001-04-19
2029107:US	50592435	RRDQJ53FV1CSC	0791421066	239005859	The Secret Chain: Evolution and Ethics (Suny Series in Philosophy an (Suny Series in Philosophy and Biology)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	From Mandeville to Darwin	This is a useful scholarly resource for the debate over philosophies and theories of the evolution of ethics, placing the questions in the context of the history of philosophy. Frequently noted and carefully examined here is the resemblance of Darwinian theory both to and in the context of the philosophy of ethics, and of economic ideology, from Mandeville to Smith, with Hume and Kant in the mainline. The ambiguity of sociobiological theories of altruism is thus seen in its own peculiar lineage. Has evolutionary theory really transcended this history of philosophy? The book is sympathetic to Darwinism yet gives sufficient ground to stand back and examine the history of the theory in a broader context.	2001-04-18
2054834:US	50592435	R1XLEVD49K8183	0198504241	147773416	Fossils and Evolution	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Pattern and Process	This is a very good and not too technical summary by an expert in the Darwinian field not only of the current state of evolutionary theory, but of the real difficulties, stated with a succinct clarity often absent in other such works. A sort of Neo-Neo-Darwinian Synthesis emerges from the presentation of the complexities of the pattern and process debate, with good treatments of many issues, from cladistics, to punctuated equilibrium, and much else. The book is very clear, and, without parting ways with conventional Darwinism, highlights the complexities of the 'epistemological gap'as revealed in the actual state of our knowledge of the fossil record. As the author notes, there is &quot;no single universally applicable theory of the cause of evolution that all agree explains all aspects of all cases&quot;. Such statements are more effective in the Darwin debate than the blank wall of massive denial that attends too many treatments.  Very  clear, rigorous, and with excellent references. Good book to get one's bearings in a changing field, whatever one's views of evolution.	2001-03-26
2055657:US	50592435	R2TTKM8ETPECHD	052164674X	307545610	Genes, Genesis, and God: Values and their Origins in Natural and Human History	Books	5	7	15	N	N	Naturalism, naturalistic fallacies, human religious nature	This work is well worth reading as a challenge to sociobiological thinking on values, ethics, and religion. One need not agree to the author's conclusions entirely to feel a breath of fresh air, and some common sense, applied to the Darwin debate, and the hopeless venture of deriving a genetic explanation for the religious evolutionary emergentism visible in world history and corresponding very little to the current regime of explanations.  It is also true that challenging sociobiology is not so hard, and that by comparison almost any religious viewpoint looks superior! We still end back at square one, needing to find some resolution of the dilemma of naturalism, ethics, and evolution! That is, unless we abandon the scientific perspective and grant the exception of values altogether to any naturalistic account. Part of the problem is seen in the term 'naturalistic fallacy'. This is a fallacy in our own minds, but it would seem nature has few difficulties here for it does not honor this misnomer. Thus, the dilemma remains here of the boundaries of the natural and the transcendent, so-called. This is a point much clearer in a religion such as Buddhism, where no nonsense about man's 'spirit' is allowed to intrude on the 'self' whose phenomenology is assumed to be entirely natural.  But this work cannot be faulted for not resolving the arcana of religion and does superbly as a challenge to the completely baffling oversimplifications of much ultra-Darwinian pontification of the subject of consciousness and ethics.	2001-03-26
2065576:US	50592435	R1XJZ598XN94YQ	079144564X	391771153	Religion and Scientific Naturalism: Overcoming the Conflicts (Suny Series in Constructive Postmodern Thought)	Books	5	10	24	N	N	In search of evolutionary naturalism	Although I would not share as such the perspective of this book, it is a very useful and provocative exploration of many issues current evolutionary theory, as it collides with religion, cannot deal with, because its assumptions of naturalism simply eliminate the problem rather than solving it. Darwinists are often charged thus with naturalistic preconceptions, then judged by a very narrow standard on this score, and we end with miraculous explanations for punctuated equilibrium, and other nonsense. This work by taking a far broader tack stands in the line of a greater tradition of naturalism, that reminds one of the 'evolutionary naturalism' of W. Sellars, and indeed the work summons the philosopher Whitehead to this debate, from which he has been exiled.  The author, for example (and this is only a part of the argument) quite audaciously brings in the issue of parapsychology, although this is and will remain problematical. Every culture of man, with the possible exception of various subcultures of the Indian yogic traditions, has been totally confused on this point, and the final confusion is the positivist attempt to declare there is no such subject. It is not surprising that science should take this approach, but the result instantly vitiates the very basis of theory, for the subject has been amputated. However, it is never promising to pursue this area lightly, and it would seem dubious to make it a basis for a new spiritual evolutionism, if the antiquated yet sound traditions of the Buddhist variety always had better sense in their emphasis, not on the marginal parapsychology, but self-consciousness itself.  The book generates a kind of constructive dialectical sparring and evokes a side of modernism we forget, from the lost hermetic traditions, to the pantheism, panentheism, and such of many from Leibnitz to Hegel, whose explorations have succumbed to idealist cliches, blinding us to the degenerated condition of the current spectrum of thought. Such issues have traditionally shown little promise however and would not easily resolve the religion-science dilemmas if we consider the great theosophical deviations they would generate. The turtling down of current positivistic evolutionism is a measure of self-defense.<br />The author's delineation of the types of naturalism with a subscripted terminology, e.g. naturalism-sam and naturalism-ns, and darwinism-1 to darwinism-8, etc,... is clarifying and useful. The retreat to a form of naturalism-ns (no  supernatural)is very acute, and would probably relieve the current concealed metaphysics in the Darwinist enterprise, whose flaws the author analyzes at great length. Very provocative book, whatever one's views of its affirmations.ve traditionally shown little promise however and would not easily resolve the religion-science dilemmas if we consider the great theosophical deviations they would generate. The turtling down of current positivistic evolutionism is a measure of self-defense.<br />The author's delineation of the types of naturalism with a subscripted terminology, e.g. naturalism-sam and naturalism-ns, and darwinism-1 to darwinism-8, etc,... is clarifying and useful. The retreat to a form of naturalism-ns (no  supernatural)is very acute, and would probably relieve the current concealed metaphysics in the Darwinist enterprise, whose flaws the author analyzes at great length. Very provocative book, whatever one's views of its affirmations.	2001-03-17
2065610:US	50592435	R3CIXRSXPYF7ZL	0520227905	788080703	Dear Mr. Darwin: Letters on the Evolution of Life and Human Nature	Books	5	10	12	N	N	The onset of a new paradigm	This is a very useful account, for anyone who realizes a new paradigm is coming, in a somewhat unusual format, of the many changes going on in the field of biological theory and is recommended highly as a source of information, more conventional sources are too bashful to divulge, on many aspects of the change face of Darwinism. Among them are a clear snapshot account of the revolution underway in our understanding due to the research on hox genes. The implications of this for the current views on natural selection are momentous, and the book includes a considerable critique of the views of R. Dawkins and the limitations of the Neo-Darwinian synthesis as currently taken. Important reading.	2001-03-17
2065826:US	50592435	R2L85MD19JS3YQ	0465067867	762904873	Where Does The Weirdness Go?: Why Quantum Mechanics Is Strange, But Not As Strange As You Think	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The later life of Schrodinger's Cat	This account of quantum mechanics deals with the enigmas and ambiguities of the standard Copenhagen account, including the mysteries of the EPR, and Bell's theorem. It is useful for including material on the question of decoherence and its clarification of the contradictions of the Schrodinger's cat paradoxes. The book deals also with the more extravagant views about the place of consciousness in the process of measurement that entered the fray with Von Neuman's classic work. A number of works in this genre are slightly out of date and this work serves as a corrective and an introduction to the new perspective on the transition from quantum to classical domains, left stranded in howling absurdities by the suspense of over a live or dead cat, and in general the relation of the measurement process to the quantum realm.<br />Cf. Also, In Search of Schrodinger's Kittens, By Gribbin and Understanding Quantum Mechanics, By Omnes	2001-03-17
2071280:US	50592435	R1AC3BW1XNN1IY	0393050416	37256842	Quantum Evolution: The New Science of Life	Books	5	34	39	N	Y	Macro meets micro: evolution and Schrodinger's cat	Although I would not feel ready to fully accept the argument in this book, the appearance in the second half of the book of the issues of quantum mechanics was very astonishing indeed, raising issues whose time has come. One has the sudden feeling, &quot;now maybe we are getting somewhere&quot;, as we examine new previously unknown pieces of the puzzle, those of the quantum realm having so far been left out of the running. Something is lacking in current thinking as mechanical processes are pressed into service where they inevitably fail to explain. Even the idea of 'self-organization',as the author points out, seems inadequate to the complexity of what is really happening. That leaves the unexplored and highly complex interaction of biochemistry with the realm of the atom as a possible source of new unexplained and unknown mechanisms. It was quite strange to be in the middle of a discussion of life genesis confronted by the perplexities of the Copenhagen interpretation and the maddening subtleties of Schrodinger's cat, now with the perspective of decoherence brought to bear on the issues of finding the 'quantum measurement' equivalent in the processes of life evolution. Although there is a way to go here, the new approach seems most promising indeed.There is also a discussion of this in relation to Cairns 'adaptive mutations', with its Lamarckian overtones. The books ends somewhat more speculatively applying all this to issues of consciousness.  We are entering terra incognita. And it is useful, if nothing else, to relieve one thinking with this fresh perspectives of all the prior baloney and mantra chanting that is draped in front of the unsolved problems of evolution. Fascinating.	2001-03-12
2071985:US	50592435	R172QLVBRPZEPP	0387987010	293584016	Rare Earth: Why Complex Life is Uncommon in the Universe	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Ecce animalis,ecce homo	This work is provocative both in its astrobiological perspective and its challenge to assumption that the evolution of life is one simple process. That simple life might be common, and complex life very rare, is a new twist to the enigma of life's genesis.  The work highlights the puzzle of the Cambrian, now including, by hypothesis, an invisible period just before and leading up to it, which clarifies its passage into the realm naturalism from the presumptions of Creationists but without providing as yet the explanation, which is not so easily left at the doorstep of geological or external environmental explanation. The appearance of so many complex animal body plans so near the beginning of the rise planetary life as we know it is a reminder that we are missing something still in our theories of evolution. It is often insufficiently clear in accounts of this subject just how much internal organization there is in this high level beginnng period and how far the later period of the evolutionary processes to come are from matching this threshold of the coming beast.	2001-03-12
2073517:US	50592435	R2TUL6I6P4BTPA	0198505051	296344810	Defenders of the Truth: The Battle for Science in the Sociobiology Debate and Beyond	Books	4	2	12	N	N	Defenders of the Faithful	This is a very partisan account of the rise of the sociobiology, and its progeny, evolutionary psychology, that is useful and interesting, although filled with the presumption of this wing of Darwinism that the foundations of the subject are sound, when the reality, and the source of the debate, is that they are unsound. Unfortunately the views of the critics were often equally unsound. Anyone who enters the fray here, however, would do well to consider the detailed account of the broils of Wilson, Williams, Dawkins, Lewontin, Gould, and many others. This book is invaluable on this score, at least. The hero or villain, E.O. Wilson, now a left liberal we are told, is not quite the de Maistrean ogre radical critics thought, but his absolution from 'cruel mistreatment' by leftists does little to rescue the basics of sociobiology from incoherence. The problem of ideology cannot be laid to rest here, and the left was as much struggling with theoretical confusions of its own. The difficulty lies in the misleading contradictions of the nature-nurture debate, in a context where the basis of the Neo-Darwinian sysnthesis was the real problem, yet accepted by both parties. This factor has blinded many to the claims made in the name of natural selection, which is not a 'genes versus environment' issue. Thus the false, and sure to be brief, triumph of the hard determinists. It never seems to occur to anyone that the whole basis in theory is a complete fantasy. For a critique of sociobiology from a died-in-the wool conservative, nay reactionary, cf. Darwinian Fairytales, by D. Stove for the epitaph here, pax vobiscum.	2001-03-11
2087119:US	50592435	R2AUJ39DQ9VGX6	067976867X	470087128	Consilience: The Unity of Knowledge	Books	4	3	7	N	N	The Evolution of Evolution	Consilience is a great idea, but is it a scientific idea? Wilson's engaging defense conceals a curious serpent in the conceptual eden. One of the ironies of Wilson's invocation of this consilience is the way that this points immediately to the real process of evolution visible in world history, wherein Darwin's theory of natural selection, granting the breakthrough of the idea of evolution, is little more than an ideological breakdown product of the history of philosophy. The book opens with a picture of the Ionian Enchantment, then connects this with the Enlightenment, whose themes are given off to a defense against the onslaughts of postmodernism. This connection of two periods is itself significant and leads us to ask what this intermittent pattern in the evolution of science, of philosophy, indeed of the idea of evolution, tells us about the nature of evolution itself, if such a dynamic series of discontinuities speaks plainly beyond the implicit continuity built into Darwin's version. Why does the Ionian Enchantment occur when and where it does, and what is its relation to the full pattern of so-called 'Axial' emergentist evolutionary products of that era? The answer can only be that we see within history a macroevolutionary parallelism, complemented by a sequential series. In this context, Wilson quite naturally points to the two eras of the Ionian Enchantment and the Enlightenment as steps in a significant overall global evolution, from which, among other things, we dare not omit the Indian, the Judaic, the Chinese parallel phases. The point is that Wilson's thesis must use another unstated pattern of evolution to defend the application of the Darwinian, where it is therefore superflous.<br />The fate of the Enlightentment is a problem only if we select a narrow subset of its own implicit consilience of contradictions, and it is futile to wring one's hands over the appearance of the Romantic poets if the very counter-Enlightenment summoned into existence by a dialectic against reductionism is a result of this gesture. Consilience stands as well for the problem it seeks to solve,that is,  for the actual division of knowledge that arose at this time, that Rousseau embodied, Hegel so carefully examined, and which Wilson wishes to heal through, evidently, the disarmament and unilateral surrender of the humanities to scientism. This could be a problem, the dog will bite back. Wilson seems intent to berate Kant for being a transcendentalist, while this philosopher went to some lengths to distinguish the transcendental as related to the conditions of our knowledge, from the transcendent, which is unknowable, and about which the religions produce their metaphysical beliefs, to which science is so allergic. This unfortunate confusion of Kantian terminology makes us fail to realize how close Kant is to the scientific perspective. We would oppose materialism to idealism, but that is beside the point. It was Newton who thought the 'will' might alter the momentum of physical systems and violate the law of conservation, thinking space the sensorium of God, and it was Kant who wished to embrace Newton and at the same time save him from himself, by 'modelling' a system of man that could reconcile the great contradiction, his third Antinomy, that has stopped every effort without exception to produce a science of psychology, a theory of culture, or a mechanization of values in the study of fact. The final nemesis here is a 'science' of art, if just here the search for causality attempts to reduce this factor of the creative to another laboratory specimen. If we look at the period of the Ionian Enchantment we see that periods of great artistic flowering are themselves a function of time, world historical time, and we should wonder why the age of the Ionians also produced the great Greek tragedians. This curious anomaly of timing and periodization should lead us to wonder if our evolution is not at the highest level, as an induction of theevolution of art, a far cry indeed from the realm of survival of the fittest, and natural selection.  It seems that real evolution as the descent of man knows its own consilience and this represents a form of the 'evolution of consciousness' beyond the scope of the trials of organismic and genetic evolution.  The problem with sociobiological thinking is always, and has remained, the basic tenet of natural selection. Given a new understanding of evolution, such as is latent in Wilson's periodization, the idea of consilience might come into its own in a post-Darwinian version. The reductionist version enshrined here will, one fears, flush Romantic poets from their foxholes. But, Wilson is a tough old buzzard. Tip your goblet for a kamikaze.<br />This book has the virtue of the clarity of its presentation, which does not hide therefore any of its flaws. It is useful to invoke consilience under any terms, and the idea might well prove fatal to sociobiology, whose biophiliac converts, in a canticle of Leibowitz, might revert to the wild for a consilient eden of Rousseauan bliss. For the implication of Darwinism is to deprive theory of any theory of the evolution of civilization, which is all about us, if we do not delete it from theory.evolution of art, a far cry indeed from the realm of survival of the fittest, and natural selection.  It seems that real evolution as the descent of man knows its own consilience and this represents a form of the 'evolution of consciousness' beyond the scope of the trials of organismic and genetic evolution.  The problem with sociobiological thinking is always, and has remained, the basic tenet of natural selection. Given a new understanding of evolution, such as is latent in Wilson's periodization, the idea of consilience might come into its own in a post-Darwinian version. The reductionist version enshrined here will, one fears, flush Romantic poets from their foxholes. But, Wilson is a tough old buzzard. Tip your goblet for a kamikaze. <br />This book has the virtue of the clarity of its presentation, which does not hide therefore any of its flaws. It is useful to invoke consilience under any terms, and the idea might well prove fatal to sociobiology, whose biophiliac converts, in a canticle of Leibowitz, might revert to the wild for a consilient eden of Rousseauan bliss. For the implication of Darwinism is to deprive theory of any theory of the evolution of civilization, which is all about us, if we do not delete it from theory.	2001-02-27
2105602:US	50592435	R2TI1LQ4J4FYFW	0393049221	732718986	Darkness in El Dorado: How Scientists and Journalists Devastated the Amazon	Books	5	13	45	N	N	Yanomami 'anthro'-ology	The nickname given to anthropologists by the Yanomami in this book is 'anthro' and it would seem time they founded their own science of 'anthro'-ology, for they seem from the description to be acute observers of these strange 'science' hustlers in their midst. This new science might answer the puzzle presented in the shocking portrait of the collision between worlds and the delusions of theory in the heads of the anthropologists entering the fragile world of the Amazon.  This is an important work, and advisory, for anyone who grants by an allegiance to science a rote assent to the activities of anthropologists. The whole game deserves a vote of no confidence,for the spectacle of incompetence is unnerving. Tierney's work is controversial and a number of his claims have been challenged by proponents of sociobiology, which puts part of the portrait on hold, but even by the most conservative use of the material presented, even to the point of disregarding the main topic, Chagnon, the picture presented is upsetting, and a very clear portrayal in the areas where Tierney has no agenda or expose intended. It is hard to conclude anything but that these exotic tribes are safer in the company of the ubiquitous missionaries, which is a sad commentary on anthropologists. One could hardly have expected anthropologists to be a band of lunatics. The clear politicization, left and sociobiological right, of the disputes neglects the possibility that the theoretical domain has been totally confused by Darwinian assumptions at the hands of all parties. The epigram of the book wishes to blame the misinterpretations of natural selection on a wrongheaded minority of biologists who take it wrongly, but surely all parties are to blame in so far as the whole theory is suspect, and becomes actually dangerous in action, in the context here described. Over and over critics of Darwinism have warned of the flaws in the Darwinian view of natural selection, and yet the adamant insistence by the scientific community that the mechanism of evolution is understood has left the field to the inexorable tragedies in action of the whole muddle of wrong thinking.  This book unwittingly reveals the way in which the confusion arises and persists, for the nature of evolution is misleadingly thrown off the track by this highly localized 'study of evolution in action' in a remote area and time, the last place to find evolution. All you find are people attempting to survive, and the rigors of 'natural selection' in difficult environments. But that is NOT evolution. It is a curious confusion that no caution or criticism can seem to correct in the obsession over natural selection. The greater context of evolution over large stretches of time, extending globally to the whole of man, is a phenomenon that is virtually invisible at this scale. Thus the theoretical narrowing of focus simply persists ad infinitum, and the observed's disturbance of the observer becomes an ominous factor. This is a most interesting and important portrait, whatever the issues in the book now under contention (and sociobiologists are certainly happy that some ambiguity has arisen to distract attention from what has been presented).  Time for the findings of the Yanonami 'anthro'-ologists to be written up as research findings, perhaps in Nature, or Science magazine.entific community that the mechanism of evolution is understood has left the field to the inexorable tragedies in action of the whole muddle of wrong thinking.  This book unwittingly reveals the way in which the confusion arises and persists, for the nature of evolution is misleadingly thrown off the track by this highly localized 'study of evolution in action' in a remote area and time, the last place to find evolution. All you find are people attempting to survive, and the rigors of 'natural selection' in difficult environments. But that is NOT evolution. It is a curious confusion that no caution or criticism can seem to correct in the obsession over natural selection. The greater context of evolution over large stretches of time, extending globally to the whole of man, is a phenomenon that is virtually invisible at this scale. Thus the theoretical narrowing of focus simply persists ad infinitum, and the observed's disturbance of the observer becomes an ominous factor. This is a most interesting and important portrait, whatever the issues in the book now under contention (and sociobiologists are certainly happy that some ambiguity has arisen to distract attention from what has been presented).    Time for the findings of the Yanonami 'anthro'-ologists to be written up as research findings, perhaps in Nature, or Science magazine.	2001-02-12
2108789:US	50592435	R1P8KNZCC82WK5	0684869128	460969074	The Bible Unearthed: Archaeology's New Vision of Ancient Israel and the Origin of Its Sacred Texts	Books	5	9	16	N	N	The riddle of the Old Testament	This is a tremendously important book detailing the results of a great deal of new research that has been little known to the public, but that has been gestating in the works of scholars for some time. Indeed, some of its basic perspective goes back to the nineteenth century, in the work of such as Wellhausen. Yet the stubborn lag in its public presentation is almost a scandal. Semi-secualarized histories of Israel are legion, and the type of John Bright's hybrid History of Israel, presenting a few archaeological touches on the traditional account in a manner not far short of disinformation, is hopefully gone forever. Many such works have delayed the inevitable in an almost cruel deception, as anyone forced to protest his own dishonestly hyped education well knows. Best to be finished with the matter. The mystery of the Bible's composition (cf. also Friedman, Who Wrote the Bible, and Fox, The Unauthorized Version) has to a great degree been unravelled, as its confusing layers are sorted out. The very late composition of the final forms of the Biblical text, its political context and significance in relation to the Israel just before and after the Exile,leave the traditional account in a virtual shambles. The Patriarchs, the Exodus, the invasion, even the accounts of the era of David and Solomon, are now across the threshold in the realm of myth. The plain fact is that the Old Testament always had a curious resemblance, as to its evidentiary status, to the Iliad, and these parallel myths create a new riddle of another kind: the clear 'Axial' age parallelism of the ancient world in the indicated time-frame of the kingdoms of Israel and Judah. In a strange way, an irony is seen in the fact that as the evidentiary basis collapses, the broad outline, as pure periodization, remains and forces a new and different question that might make the Bible almost more interesting as a secular archaeological text documenting a universal history, if this can refrain from any further rearguard mythifications of the type that should have disappeared soon after the birth of Biblical Criticism in the nineteenth century. There are still debatable points in this account, but overall it must constitute indispensable reading.  Taken in this form, the great irony is that the secularist ends by enjoying the archaeological shards of this mysterious work more than the religionist. Time flies, on to the next civilization. Almost essential reading.rearguard mythifications of the type that should have disappeared soon after the birth of Biblical Criticism in the nineteenth century. There are still debatable points in this account, but overall it must constitute indispensable reading.  Taken in this form, the great irony is that the secularist ends by enjoying the archaeological shards of this mysterious work more than the religionist. Time flies, on to the next civilization. Almost essential reading.	2001-02-09
2120151:US	50592435	RJFS88C3KLNU3	0471303011	425937674	Reinventing Darwin: The Great Debate at the High Table of Evolutionary Theory	Books	5	2	4	N	N	At the High Table of Theory	Regardless of one's perspective on evolution this is an important and essential clarifying history of the debate over punctuated equilibrium from one of the original theorists of this phenomenon.The book opens with the metaphor of the High Table of evolutionary theory, and its exclusionary imagery, as between the Ultra-Darwinians and the paleontologists, the former emphasizing continuity,the latter discovering the element of discontinuity next to the perception of stasis visible in the fossil record. Eldredge attempts to distinguish those who espouse the 'grand heresy' of rejecting the Neo-Darwinian Synthesis from those who, remaining within its confines, nonetheless do not wish to attribute population level phenomena to such disparate entities as species, higher taxa, social systems, and ecosystems. This is an important distinction in a subject that is liable to inexact extrapolations or failure to stay within the complexity of the picture actually dealt with by paleontologists, which includes such hypotheses as those of 'species sorting', which is quite different from the Ultra-Darwinian views on group selection. At the end Eldredge moves on to considerations of complex systems in relation to the original idea of punctuated equilibrium. Much confused extrapolation has made off with the term 'punctuated equilibrium' which has a host of associations naturalists dislike and Eldredge clearly sets the record straight. The book should speak for itself. And yet in the process of attempted clarification, one gets a sense that the High Table has become exclusionary in another sense, that the debate is divided between two poles of the Neo-Darwinian synthesis, to the exclusion of many others who should be seated at this august theoretical table. For the accounts of these issues leave one suspicious that the woolly minded critics and extrapolators are onto something the strict Darwinists will not consider.  Indeed, Eldredge himself in his earlier Myths of Evolution examines the 'punctuated equilbrium'-like phenomenon visible in world history itself, one that Darwinists seem afraid to acknowledge for it makes mincemeat of the whole question.  As we examine the record of evolution and the contradictions of continuity and the unlikelihood of random evolution, we should think the record will show some compression factor as evidence of an unknown system process. And that is just what the discovery of the punctuated equilibrium process has demonstrated. But the account seems confused or ambiguous to the degree of sitting between two stools, and the theories of both parties at the High Table seem inadequate. As to world history, the 'punctuated equilibrium' phenomenon there, if we choose to call it that, is so far from what strict Darwinists would expect yet so obvious to plain view, once seen in the proper light, that we should remain neutral in this debate, for the suspicion is overwhelming, especially for the descent of man, that Darwinism is very far off the mark, that 'puncutated equilibrium' is involved at a level of social evolution that isn't even genetic, but pure processing of information. We see abstract evolution operating in directed fashion on whole cultures at the level of art, philosophy, religion,to the point that reductionist sociobiology, currently ambitious to claim the field, should deserve a severe caution. The danger of Darwinism is the way it trains us to not see what is obvious in history as we make hard assumptions about what we actually never see in earlier evolution.Time for a whole slew of new theorists at the High Table, including some quite comfortable with the arch heresies.  Cf.also Sudden Origins, J. Schwarz; At the Water's Edge, Carl Zimmer; The Fossil Trail, Ian Tattersall.  For the 'punctuated equilibrium' clearly visible in world history, cf. World History and the Eonic Effect, John Landonhe 'punctuated equilbrium'-like phenomenon visible in world history itself, one that Darwinists seem afraid to acknowledge for it makes mincemeat of the whole question.  As we examine the record of evolution and the contradictions of continuity and the unlikelihood of random evolution, we should think the record will show some compression factor as evidence of an unknown system process. And that is just what the discovery of the punctuated equilibrium process has demonstrated. But the account seems confused or ambiguous to the degree of sitting between two stools, and the theories of both parties at the High Table seem inadequate. As to world history, the 'punctuated equilibrium' phenomenon there, if we choose to call it that, is so far from what strict Darwinists would expect yet so obvious to plain view, once seen in the proper light, that we should remain neutral in this debate, for the suspicion is overwhelming, especially for the descent of man, that Darwinism is very far off the mark, that 'puncutated equilibrium' is involved at a level of social evolution that isn't even genetic, but pure processing of information. We see abstract evolution operating in directed fashion on whole cultures at the level of art, philosophy, religion,to the point that reductionist sociobiology, currently ambitious to claim the field, should deserve a severe caution. The danger of Darwinism is the way it trains us to not see what is obvious in history as we make hard assumptions about what we actually never see in earlier evolution.Time for a whole slew of new theorists at the High Table, including some quite comfortable with the arch heresies.     Cf.also Sudden Origins, J. Schwarz; At the Water's Edge, Carl Zimmer; The Fossil Trail, Ian Tattersall.  For the 'punctuated equilibrium' clearly visible in world history, cf. World History and the Eonic Effect, John Landon	2001-01-31
2122510:US	50592435	R21POB239AENTJ	0385235690	80320513	Quantum Reality: Beyond the New Physics	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Through the double slit...	Although it is open to confusion to compare the two domains of physics and Kantianism, one has to wonder if Kant and the modern quantum physicist did not stumble by different routes into the same swamp, for the relation of appearance and reality in the observation of the object becomes elusive in both enquiries. Perhaps physics will one day fully elucidate these enigmas.Opening his charming Quantum Reality with a wan pointillist picture of Kant as a 'reality researcher', Nick Herbert declares physicists are losing their grip on reality and then takes off into one of the most useful of the popular introductions to quantum questions. As one reads several accounts of these matters, one discovers that they all seem to cancel out. The reason is the emphasis on one apsect or interpretation of the quantum mechanics. What makes Herbert's book the best place to start is the comprehensive list, introduced at the beginning of the book, listing all the different perspectives, interpretations and schools, the eight quantum realities, the Copenhagen interpretations, I and II, reality as undivided wholeness, the many worlds interpretation, quantum logic, consciousness creates reality, and the duplex world of Heisenberg. The books leads through the whole labyrinth very handily, in the context of Bohr's debate with Einstein, Von Neuman's Grundlagen, and much else,  ending in an account of the EPR and Bell's theorem. It is useful to have the 'quantum measurement disturbance model' one got many years ago laid to rest. There is also an interesting depiction of wave theories, and a useful metaphor for Fourier's theorem that lurks behind the many accounts that can only confuse if Fourier's theorem is stated in prose.<br />Instead of mystical gushing over nonlocality, the book ends with the music and score for &quot;Bell's Theorem Blues&quot;. You can get your grip on reality by singing along with Benjamin Bunny. Excellent and useful, even if written in 1985. Cf. Also Gribbin's In Search of Schrodinger's Cat, and the later In Search of Schrodinger's Kittens, for possible new approaches to these questions;of Schrodinger's Cat, and the later In Search of Schrodinger's Kittens, for possible new approaches to these questions;	2001-01-29
2123215:US	50592435	R500928V26BHM	0195128524	997233304	Here Be Dragons: The Scientific Quest for Extraterrestrial Life	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Cosmology and the enigma of terrestrial evolution	In the confusions of the Darwin debate it can be useful to change key and consider the perspective of the exobiologists. Suddenly the certainties of the Neo-Darwinian synthesis become questions all over again as we ask what is the relation of terrestrial evolution to a greater cosmological context. Suddenly we can realize that, so far, it all doesn't add up. Is life universal, is it a cosmological process, what is the origin of life, and is it 'inevitable', and so on. We are suddenly confronted with the question as to whether evolution could really be the spectacle of pure randomness that we are led to believe. Surveying the whole field with interviews of Stuart Kauffman and Stephen J. Gould, this book is a cogent introduction to the subject of evolution from a broader perspective than the usual, this quite beyond its excellent presentation of many other topics and issues, from life on Mars to the Seti project.  Cf. also, Rare Earth, by Peter Ward;	2001-01-29
2142773:US	50592435	R2KR6JSAWNGD3I	0195132564	707346591	The Non-Local Universe: The New Physics and Matters of the Mind	Books	5	15	19	N	N	Nonlocality and epistemology	Enticing and most suggestive work connecting the recent 1997 empirical confirmation of nonlocality suggested by Bell's theorem, and the realm of both biology and postmodernism. The author's begin by suggesting the classical problem of Cartesian dualism is to be resolved by this new view of mind in relation to physics. While there is certainly a gateway to a new perspective on this tragic division, it is not clear how the broader confusions of ethics and values can enter either the classical or postclassical views of physical systems, yet the basic insight seems fruitful indeed on the way to a new synthesis. The book weighs in with Bohr's Copenhagen perspective resolving the long debate with Einstein. The book then proceeds to a provocative consideration of the limitations of current Darwinian theory, still enmeshed in the classical paradigm, concluding with a hope this new unification will help to heal the two cultures divide. I am always left to wonder quizzically at renewed hopes of finally bridging the Cartesian divide, for the problem is in part one of false terminology, and the lack of self-perception, more than self-division. The great Indian 'metaphysics' of Samkhya never had this problem because instead of two entities, it had three, all material. The division of mind and matter is a confusion of terms, and thus not open to solution by physics, a most debatable point itself, to be sure. None of this really negates the very fruitful connection now shown between mind and physical reality demonstrated in the new physics. Excellent book, one way or the other. May be read Kant also. Cf. also, Quantum Reality, Nick Herbert The Ghost in the Adam, P.C.W. Davies Appearance and Reality, Peter Kosso Quantum Dialogue, Martha Besser	2001-01-12
2143242:US	50592435	RB3IXW9B9FGGY	1573927066	615154820	Thomas Henry Huxley: The Evolution of a Scientist	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Biography of an early Darwin critic...	This fascinating and important biography of T.H.Huxley shows almost another Huxley from the one we associate with the Darwinian tradition. Huxley is an important figure, for in many ways he saw more clearly than Darwin, and current biology is catching up with him. The author begins by noting that 'while Huxley enthusiastically accepted the idea of descent with modification, he was critical of the two central components of Darwin's theory: gradualism and natural selection'. As the author notes, Huxley warned Darwin on the eve of publication that he had burdened his theory unnecessarily with the dictum, natura non facit saltum.  This eye opening account reveals a Huxley who could step from a time machine into the contemporary debates on evolution, as the issues that were clearly in the background to Darwin's public triumph resurface with renewed force. Indeed, we discover that Huxley was close also to the developmental tradition with his interest in morphology and considerations of type.<br />It is a strange testimony to the telescoped pictures we have as non-specialists dependent on hurried summaries that this alternate side of Huxley should have remained unclear throughout the whole Darwin debate. And it is a reminder that the debate is one of selective emphasis of issues that were present from the beginning and never enter the mythical accounts of the Wilberforce debate.  This biography, from Prometheus books no less,  seems a bellwether for a paradigm in transition. Must reading.<br />  Cf. also Adrian Desmond's Huxley, for a fuller picture of the nineteenth century background of culture and ideology.	2001-01-12
2160246:US	50592435	R1CS3RFN7DCR7F	1859723063	238508265	Darwinian Fairytales (Avebury Series in Philosophy)	Books	5	91	138	N	N	Darwinism's Dilemma	Stove begins his relentless critique of Darwinism by noting, &quot;If Darwin's theory of evolution were true, there would be be in every species a constant and ruthless competition to survive: a competition in which only a few in any generation could survive. But it is perfectly obvious that human life is not like that, however it may be with other species. This inconsistency, between Darwin's theory and the facts of human life, is what I mean by Darwinism's dilemma.&quot; It is hard to think of a more obvious (once pointed to) yet devastating criticism of Darwin's theory, and there is nothing complex or esoteric in the observation. Stove's book is like this, and a reminder that the many complexities of evolutionary theory are also often dust thrown in the face of non-specialists. You can walk away from Darwinism after Stove's first paragraph. Stove's book is a strange balance of philosophic equipoise and near savagery, such is the scalding tone of this new epitaph for a theory. This penetrating study by David Stove is one of the most caustic, yet insightful, critiques of Darwinism. It's clarity springs in part from a philosopher's thumbing his nose at theoretical complications that ensare many critics and simply looking at the most obvious discrepancy between the theory and real life. This should not excuse refusal to look at details, but it is easily forgotten how many contradictions creep into what has always been a partly speculative extrapolation about unseen events in deep time.  As this passage shows, Stove looks closely at the Malthusian confusions and ideological factors of the post-revolutionary era that haunt Darwinism, and proceeds to a general attack on sociobiology, and other aspects of the theory. It is unfortunate once again: a penetrating book on Darwinism is out of print without reaching paperback, and left to lurk in the stacks of (very) large libraries, where this reader found it, as usual by chance, and where a host of other anti-Darwin books are buried lest they disturb the brainwashed views of the general public.e buried lest they disturb the brainwashed views of the general public.	2000-12-30
2166265:US	50592435	R3B2X2L6BWGW6I	0471379123	841045872	Sudden Origins: Fossils, Genes, and the Emergence of Species	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Hox genes, and the new origin of the species	This is a very important source of information both as to the history of the Neo-Darwinian Synthesis and the recent discoveries of regulatory hox genes and the light they throw on the riddles of speciation and large scale evolutionary change. The realization that major morphological changes do not in fact occur in the fashion of microevolution (as presented by traditional Darwinists), due to the effect of homeobox genes, is a revolutionary discovery and confirmation of the importance of the developmental tradition moving in parallel to standard Darwinism. This data creates a foundation for the various theories of macroevolution and punctuated equilibrium proposed almost a generation ago but still sidelined by the Darwinian mainline. The book contains an invaluable review of paleoanthropological theories, issues of neotonous evolution, and the various genetical theories of Mendelism, from de Vries and Bateson, to Haldane, Wright, and Fisher. The views of Goldschmidt, and his near miss of this new perspective, is also treated. This confusing history of Mendelism sorted out is invaluable, and shows how cogent (in part) where the intimations of Bateson and Morgan. The new perspective both confirms the concept of 'macroevolution' while suggesting this can be seen as a microevolution of regulatory genes, a point open to debate perhaps. The next mystery is the evolution of these complex sequences of development. But that does not distract from the great usefulness of this account. One can dispense with much of the erroneous literature on evolution, a great saving in brain space. The endless debate over the slow evolution of the eye, etc, that went on and on and drove all parties batty is hopefully over if we know the right combination of homeobox genes will control the development of this and other organs. Times are changing in Darwin land. Highly recommended.	2000-12-24
2171455:US	50592435	R3NK36E2AO41OO	0521550149	711564980	The Origin of Animal Body Plans: A Study in Evolutionary Developmental Biology	Books	5	24	29	N	N	Body plans, hox genes, and developmental biology	This work is a technical introduction to evolutionary developmental biology and introduces a very different perspective on evolution from what one is used to in the usual biology texts. In spite of its moderate difficulty, to a non-specialist, it is actually much clearer than simplified versions of Darwinism, and one can recommend it strongly as a perspective on the separate current to the Neo-Darwinian synthesis that has flowed from its nineteenth century origins parallel to Darwin. In the age of the Genome this dark side of the moon as to theoretical paradigms is coming into full view. The book starts with an exhortation to the reader &quot;to believe that current evolutionary theory based on natural selection and adaptation in natural lineages is, at the very least, incomplete...&quot; The author asks, did &quot;evolution really have an early 'morphogenetic' phase during which most major body plans originated?&quot; The difficulty of explaining the fact that no phylum-level body plans have arisen in the last 500 my becomes one of the starting points of the book. In general this perspective asks for the creative aspect of development beyond the destructive aspect of natural selection models. From there the book proceeds to the issues of cladism, body plans, genetic regulation, and many other topics in a comprehensive presentation.  The crucial significance of all this for understanding evolution and extricating oneself from disinformation in the Darwin debate are obvious. Much of the boilerplate and blah-blah of the public discourse on evolution can be left behind in a fast getaway into some better fare than the current offerings. We are beginning to catch a glimpse of a new world of evolution, one that has been with us all along in embryo, as forseen by such biologists as Soren Lovtrup in Darwinism: Refutation of a Myth. That day is now arriving.	2000-12-19
2172002:US	50592435	R3U9E4HFX0VDP	0156007037	690595801	Night Comes to the Cretaceous: Comets, Craters, Controversy, and the Last Days of the Dinosaurs	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Dinosaur Extinctions and Paradigm Transitions	This is a most engaging account of the meteor impact theory of dinosaur extinction, the KT boundary. More, it is an account of 'paradigm' dynamics, and its psychology, in action in the development of science. Powell's account points up the contingency factor in evolution, along with the factor of mass extinctions (cf. also, Raub, The Nemesis Affair). However, it is perhaps somewhat confusing to identify this with the actual process of evolution, whose new age of evolution after the extinction is a separate process altogether. The mystery of contingency,causality, sudden evolution,versus stasis remains still mystery, it would seem.  The book also has some interesting comments on the idea of punctuated equilbrium near the end.  Very enjoyable reading.	2000-12-18
2175340:US	50592435	RWE2D1CUE8HDL	0300083238	535692988	A Darwinian Left: Politics, Evolution, and Cooperation	Books	2	2	10	N	N	Toward a Post Darwinian Left.	Darwin has confused more philosophers, beginning with Nietzsche, than any other scientist. It is time the game stopped. After Robert Wright's reactionary version of political Darwinism in his incoherent Non Zero with its Kant desecration we now close the circle with Peter Singer's pseudo-leftist behind the back switch of Darwin and Marx. The author of the fine Animal Liberation and a short work on Hegel seems to have drifted downwards in a spiral to the point where it is hard to see any consistent grounds by him for any opinion on evolution. This booklet, no more than a pamphlet, contains no scientific discussion to speak of apart from the same sociobiological pulp about ethics and the theory of games that has driven a generation of mathematically competent mathematical idiots also social scientists into thinking they have a theory. Mr. Singer suggests the left needs a new paradigm, that could start with a critique of evolutionary economy, and the theories promoted in such economies. In fact, the confusion over Darwinism began very early with Engels, and has persisted to this day. Any account of the left and Darwinism should aggressively point out the calamitous misuse of selectionist thinking as class extermination in the post-Revolutionary situation after 1817. To suggest more of this in the poorly concealed racism of sociobiologists can only backfire. The whole point of the critique of ideology was to rescue thought from improper theories applied to society. Instead we are asked for a new hybrid compromise, enough. It is time to be rid of this Darwinian pretense and the poisoned Marxism it helped to create. We need a new evolutionary perspective, and an intelligent debriefing of both rightist and leftist abuses of Darwinism.<br />Read Singer's Animal Liberation. Let's hope this once acute 'philosophical animal' will find liberation as a post-Darwinian.	2000-12-15
2177875:US	50592435	RA2UFAPEI6GXV	0716736381	878161902	The Triumph of Evolution: and the Failure of Creationism	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Evolution, The Pyrrhic Victory	There can be little doubt that the idea of evolution has triumphed, but the result is like a conquered province where reductionist confusion over evolutionary mechanism misapplied to history creates. The idea of evolution is foundational, but assumptions that the 'how' of evolution has been explained are misleading. And the idea has been appropriated to the ideological agendas and limited philosophical perspectives of its positivistic triumphalists.  We can admire the broad scope of evolutionary research and applaud its potential as a foundation of a new conception of man, but that potential is most likely to fail to be realized in its current form, for the misuse and misapplication of its theoretical component as a crypto-metaphysical talisman for the explication of all aspects of culture. The result is not a triumph. We are left with clear indications of the fact of evolution, and the need to refrain from universal claims of mechanism, for the evolution of culture and human history shows us something different from standard claims about the descent of man. Therefore, it is not true that the idea of evolution has really triumphed in at least this crucial area of man becoming man. We simply cannot conclude scientifically, for example, that we have the explanation of man's descent with its great complexity of consciousness, culture, and language. To say that man has evolved, this is true, to say that we understand how this happened is not true, and purely selectionist explanations taken dogmatically are recycled unconsciously into action in the present. This interaction of theory, with no specified domain, with action in the present is a clear sign of a very partial triumph indeed.	2000-12-13
2180805:US	50592435	R27U328XBHQY0G	0609605135	511292081	Alas, Poor Darwin: Arguments Against Evolutionary Psychology	Books	5	15	30	N	N	Alas poor Darwinist	This is an important collection of essays challenging the current highly promoted surge of sociobiology aka evolutionary psychology. Beginning with an essay finding the tone of a religiosity in the 'movement', then an encounter with the author of Consilience, E.O. Wilson, the book contains a critique of Dawkins' genocentric Darwinism, of the concept of memes by Mary Midgeley,with Gould's attack on Darwinian fundamentalism (reprinted article from New York Review of Books), Hilary Roses' snapshot history of the roots of nineteenth century social Darwinism, a feminist critique of R. Wright's androcentric sociobiological rants on women, a review of the nature/nurture debate, Runciman's work on sociology, a comparison of Darwin and Wallace on man, concluding with S. Rose's debriefing of genetic determinism, along the lines of his work, Lifelines.<br />The Jencks essay on E.0.Wilson's Consilience in many ways isolates the basic flaw at the fons et origo of sociobiology, the scientism latent in the attempt to storm the tower of social theory in the name of science. Wilson seems incapable of grasping the primordial error in this cycle of paradigms,and its basic echo of the many conflicts at the beginning of the social sciences in the nineteenth century. The distinction between naturwissenshaft and geistewissenshaft attempted the first reckoning of the implausible and reductionist efforts to subdue social science with arrogant means. It is sad to see the moonstruck recurrence of this syndrome, and that is all it is, over a century later. So far from being the advance of science, it is proof that certain people never learn. Noone is questioning the importance of genes and the new discoveries and importance of the genome, but it is hard to see how this was ever taken as grounds for a confirmation of genetic fundamentalism.  One recalls living through a college course in Skinner's Behaviorism, and wondering if it would ever simply go the way of stupid ventures. It did. After that one has seen it all before, the endless repetition of the same basic series of mistakes, this time, due no doubt to its ideological attractiveness in an age of conservative neoliberalism, on a scale that is almost alarming in its determination to nullify ethics in mechanism, reduce the dimension of man to something it is not, and induce amnesia in the real evolutionary psychology better known to Buddhists three thousand years ago. There is no excuse for this kind of theoretical conquistador episode anymore. Nor is this a rejection of evolution as such, an idea completely spoilt by the inane reductionism of its proponents. One can only hope the sociobiological consilience, doomed to feed the postmodernism it attacks, and fragment the sciences it wishes to unify, will suffer the same fate.  This is an excellent review of all the issues, but it must be considered that the critics of sociobiology are themselves open to challenge in not going far enough in a critique of Darwinian selectionism, and thus find themselves on the defensive against the tide of evolutionary psychology. The basic issue is that without the mechanism, this new psychology is a baseless vision. That more fundamental critique is lacking in this otherwise important book. In any case, good show.at one has seen it all before, the endless repetition of the same basic series of mistakes, this time, due no doubt to its ideological attractiveness in an age of conservative neoliberalism, on a scale that is almost alarming in its determination to nullify ethics in mechanism, reduce the dimension of man to something it is not, and induce amnesia in the real evolutionary psychology better known to Buddhists three thousand years ago. There is no excuse for this kind of theoretical conquistador episode anymore. Nor is this a rejection of evolution as such, an idea completely spoilt by the inane reductionism of its proponents. One can only hope the sociobiological consilience, doomed to feed the postmodernism it attacks, and fragment the sciences it wishes to unify, will suffer the same fate.  This is an excellent review of all the issues, but it must be considered that the critics of sociobiology are themselves open to challenge in not going far enough in a critique of Darwinian selectionism, and thus find themselves on the defensive against the tide of evolutionary psychology. The basic issue is that without the mechanism, this new psychology is a baseless vision. That more fundamental critique is lacking in this otherwise important book. In any case, good show.	2000-12-11
2193990:US	50592435	R2V2JOI53JVYZF	0895262762	107650463	Icons of Evolution: Science or Myth?	Books	5	34	56	N	N	The Darwin mythology in action: deceptive textbooks exposed	One of the great scandals of modern evolutionary science is that finding an orientation toward the difficulties of Darwinian theory has to be done with works of critics writing exposes. Anyone attempting to get to the bottom of the Darwin debate soon learns the confusing nature of the 'official' literature and textbooks and can expect to find very little help in finding any of the real difficulties addressed. In fact, the only safe way to get one's bearings is to be forewarned about the omissions, errors, and outright deceptions by a critic who can also handle some aspects of the specialized facades.Mr. Wells book is the latest of this genre, and proceeds systematically through a number of the major 'mythical plugs' that buttress the standard accounts, from the origin of life, through the Cambrian, to the archaeopteryx, to the descent of man. Armed with some forewarning of the traps, one can then at least pick through the rest of the textbooks for some semblance of useful learning, if one can trust it. The overall situation is so outrageous that one fears for the reputation of science once its implications become more generally known. This is an excellent adjunct to any study of evolution, and has also a lot of useful references. Good work.	2000-11-29
2216097:US	50592435	R2FLD6AHAJU3QA	1859848982	201213691	The Communist Manifesto: A Modern Edition	Books	5	8	13	N	N	Global Leviathan	No work has caught the passage of the emerging liberal state confronting the contradictions of the global leviathan in a vacuum of global transnationalism better than this Manifesto of Marx and Engels. Associated with Bolshevism, this work speaks better to an earlier time before 'democracy' had crystallized into its modern meaning still short of the aspirations of equality realized. At the time of its composition, a generation of desperate struggle remained to outlaw the worst evils of child labor in factories. Universal suffrage was still utopian dreaming, a feat still in the future. And the initiative of the generation after this manifesto did the job where the economic powers resisted every step of the way and rewrote the definition of freedom.  The association of this work then with totalitarianism is entirely confusing, and demands close scrutiny of its layers of context. It is also true this work was written in the passage of revolutionary expectations of the year 1848, after which Marx and Engels changed their tactics and worked to bring about the great Social Democratic Movement of the end of the nineteenth century (cf. for example M. Harrinton, Socialism). It is difficult now to understand the multidimensional perspectives that every ideology has distilled from the background of this piercing work, without whose impetus ironically the liberal societies the world cherishes would most assuredly never have come to be. For the captains of industries did not create our present societies. This work will haunt the capitalist system for as long as it endures. cf. Marx and Engels, Nimtz Socialism, Michael Harrington Many editions, Norton Critical Edition,Verso edition with essay by Hobsbawm, commentary by Hal Draper...	2000-11-09
2263487:US	50592435	R1YHU324I5JLDN	0380720027	218105535	The End of History and the Last Man	Books	4	0	5	N	N	End of history and the last whig	This work is an enigma of philosophical history and ideology at the same time, the piece de resistance of 'bourgeois ideology',  one whose arrival with perfect timing and clever idea at the collapse of Bolshevism was a kind of Hegelian coup d'etat of philosophy. Like a good move spotted in chess, one jumps to the play, only to suffer later complications, thus Fukuyama's thesis ends a victim of its own cogency, which demands critical challenge ad infinitum. Picking up the fumbled football of the eschatological advertisement, it inherits the millenarian expectations of its former rival and demands in the end we examine more closely the real Hegel behind the one espoused by Alexander Kojeve, whose interpretation of the Hegelian idea was always suspect as something of a concoction, cf. Jon Stewart's _The Hegel Myths and Legends_ (now back in print), for the creation of this Hegelian myth.<br />The difficulty with this compelling beguilement is the failure to specify the details of the infinite variety of liberal systems compatible with abstract definitions, not all of which will converge to any end, save that of frozen social evolution, the infinite loop of the year 1848. Thus the end is at risk of being a permanent beginning, and as in the beginning, so at the end, the test, behind the jargon, is equality.  cf. Alexander Kojeve, Shadia Drury. Hegel and Marx, David MacGregor. After History? Fukuyama and his critics, Timothy Burns (ed.).	2000-10-01
2281355:US	50592435	R1N8DT6GO7UVOE	0500280363	714803428	The Egyptians (Ancient Peoples and Places)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Emergence of Egypt: 'Antiquity' to the ancients	This is a good bird's eye view of the emergence of Egyptian civilization  as it appears almost in parallel to the rise of the Sumerian world. The  earliest period of Egyptian civilization after the unification of the upper  and lower kingdoms is, as Aldred suggests, the most creative, and the  entire cycle of civilization stretches as long as the period in our  tradition from the Classical Greeks to modern times, a tremendous range,  with an amazing overall continuity. A closer look shows the change in  character of the civilization and many interior  transformations. This  account is a fine beginning to Egyptian history. To the ancient Greeks this  world was what they meant by 'ancient'	2000-09-16
2281489:US	50592435	R1D5VHSGVAPWQL	0691000867	671262576	Egypt, Canaan, and Israel in Ancient Times	Books	5	11	18	N	N	Cycles of civilization	The relationship of Greece and Israel to (one of) their common ancestors,  Egypt, is one of the mysteries of world history in the way they both appear  in parallel time. The branch leading to Israel is presented in fascinating  fashion in this work and puts the history of the Old Testament in its right  context as an account of the transition from an old to new world, in the  New Age of classical antiquity.	2000-09-16
2281645:US	50592435	R36QIPRI9ETUCD	087052559X	949685275	The Pyramids: An Enigma Solved	Books	5	6	7	N	N	How to build a Pyramid?	This is one of the most curious theories I have ever encountered, and I  encountered it by chance walking through the stacks of a large library.  The theory that the Pyramids were built by a process of pouring concrete is  so ingenious that I have always been left wondering if it is correct, and  why it is never cited anywhere else. This interpretation would resolve at  once many of the difficulties involved in explaining the original  construction of such tremendous structures, for as the author notes the  usual accounts confront a host of contradictions.	2000-09-16
2281650:US	50592435	R3JJ5JEHI37MYO	0198721943	541136912	Egypt, Greece, and Rome: Civilizations of the Ancient Mediterranean	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Worlds in transition	This history is very useful to see both ancient Egypt and the Classical  tradition separately and in tandem, making a fine study of the bridge  between civilizations. Like acorns under a great oak tree, Greece and Rome  resolve their beginnings in the field spawned by Egypt. This is a very  usefully done work with excellent references and makes a good tool for the  branching out into more specialized areas, without losing a picture of the  whole.	2000-09-16
2284058:US	50592435	RFBDYVFFVB2EY	0812212762	584425665	History Begins at Sumer: Thirty-Nine Firsts in Recorded History	Books	5	14	24	N	N	Enter Gilgamesh	Our views of history have barely caught up with the archaeological  revolution of the twentieth century. The sources of our traditions in  Classical antiquity always had a murky prelude, the world of the Assyrians,  a late Mesopotamia with an unknown provenance. And yet the sources of all  this remained obscure, as if we had forgotten the Greeks behind the Romans.  Now the full scope of the complete historical cycle of civilizations  beginning in Sumer (and Egypt) has come into view throwing the whole of  world history into its real pattern. For we see that the Sumerians were the  real creators laying the foundations for what was to come. Our perceptions  of the evolution of civilization have yet to catch up.	2000-09-14
2284087:US	50592435	R6O4ZKZTPKNKJ	0877289077	889912894	The Collected Works of Ramana Maharshi	Books	5	15	21	N	N	Who am I?	The story of Ramana Maharsi is one of the great tales of the twentieth  century, and the tale of one of India's great sages. This work gives a  glimpse of the world of India at its best--and most mysterious.  Worth  comparing with J.G.Bennett's The Long Pilgrimmage, the tale of Shivapuri  Baba, and Rajneesh's Glimpses of a Golden Childhood.	2000-09-14
2288667:US	50592435	RLOGUBI6DBDKB	0892131233	561265045	Bhagavad-Gita As It Is	Books	3	7	19	N	N	The Gita As It Was	As if a text from Homer's Iliad had become embroidered to tell a spiritual  tale, the Bhagavad Gita resonates with the antiquity of great myths, the  Mahabharata. Ay there's the rub. The text that we have of this classic gem  is increasingly coming under scrutiny as a corrupt text, mostly later  interpolations, suffering a fate analogous to that of the Bible in an age  of Biblical Criticism. A little known work called The Gita As It Was,  Rediscovering the Original Bhagavadgita. by Phulgenda Sinha, should be  indispensable reading for anyone interested in the stunning fact that the  original Gita was a non-theistic text. The deception and complete  transformation of the sutras reveals a palimpsest indeed, upon which the  shadow side of Indian spiritual history has been written.	2000-09-09
2289769:US	50592435	R39K4ZB7EG2LUF	0852073038	259105600	In Search of the Miraculous: Chakras, Kundalini and the Seven Bodies	Books	4	1	17	N	N	In search of a next step after Ouspensky	I am not a follower of Rajneesh, but happened to have read a large number of his books. This book, with an echo of a book by Ouspensky with a similar title, could be recommended as an escape hatch for that cul-de-sac of 'esotericism'. And a reminder that the contents of spiritual books don't really address what they seem to address. Rajneesh was a controversial guru, to say the least, but, his movement apart (which may have outstripped Gurdjieff groups for nuttiness), his works can be useful for dismissing as fog the hard fixation created by Ouspensky's strange and toxic reactionary 'spiritual' path, by blowing away the pretenses of degenerate versions of 'sufism' and by showing them all to be variants of Indian methods of meditation, by and large. This work, however, has its own context, kundalini, a pile of rubbish, which was not Rajneesh's forte, this context shows that the content or doctrine is without importance. Rajneesh is talking past the content to something else, and, remarkably, was truly enlightened yet could spout nonsense about sacred traditions. Note, then, these traditions will simply confuse you, since they seem to have confused an Enlightened man.  Worth remembering in the useless concoction of cosmic hydrogens and theosophical esoteric nonsense called Gurdjieffianity that catches too many in a helpless passivity, when the basic and invariable message is very simple,no bottled water required, as old as the Upanishads, and not controllable by the pretensions of those who run the usual rundown 'sufi' schools for profit, or other motives.<br />As to Rajneesh and his movement, it is a classic instance of total confusion, and we are reduced to studying this Buddha as a speciment of Murphy's Law of Enlightenment. His movement really stank.	2000-09-08
2290082:US	50592435	R3CQPEBP72525Q	8172610726	308354173	Glimpses of a Golden Childhood: The Rebellious Childhood of a Great Enlightened One	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Portrait of a young Buddha as an Indian huck finn	This charming yet significant work is an autobiographical snapshot of the  rare achievement of the 'fourth state' indicated in the classic yogas for  which India is famous. A young rascal from an Indian village who found  lessons in every direction including the handling of dangerous snakes from  the local charmer to his sponataneous meditations in jogging, swimming, and  immobility, the account unwittingly reveals the intangible nature of the  means in such a quest, and the mysterious midwivery that India alone seems  able to provide. Such a work is an important reminder of what even  institutional buddhists would prefer to conceal in the eternal entrapment  of bodhisattwas, success is possible, and frozen images of ancient buddhas  are no myth. Not a single important Buddhist organization had the courage  to even acknowledge the existence of this man. Worth keeping in mind. A  beautiful work, and, strangely, out of print. Reprint this book  immediately!	2000-09-08
2290163:US	50592435	R1AXT6CHI2X7FG	0140194738	859402931	Beelzebub's Tales to His Grandson: All and Everything, First Series (Compass)	Books	2	5	16	N	N	Lord of the flies?	To aspire to a pedigree of big devils by name should be a hint the man who espouses esoterica has something to hide. Innocent til proven guilty, we are left guessing with a short list from grand larceny to murder one. Perhaps the sufi trick of malamat, or path of blame, is to be taken with a wink here to excuse the occultist who has lost rank as a saint and is condemned to the shadows as a rug mechant, a good front for a magus, certainly not of the magi. But such sufi riffraff have learned a funny trick, and its use requires little wisdom, but a little wise lingo to disguise it, so beware, and find your own way, for you alone are the guardian of your own will. The main trick of these devils is preach awareness then put you to sleep. The truth is out, the man dabbles in evil, and the spiritual starving disciple should be read his rights, one of them the right to pay no attention, and less money, to this concoction of deceptive spirituality. Put it to the test, is there a law of three or a law of seven? This nonsense is not the answer for a positivistic age that can do without the sufi human torpedo launched at the modern world. Here is a man who thought the Russian peasantry was better off under the Tsars, playing wolf among the new york intellectual fans of Nietzche at the turn of the century. Behold the overman, found with his well-stocked larder in Paris at the end of the War. This master of fronts indulged the luxury of several intellectuals to promote fronts of kind mien to enter to a more vicious game little described in Gurdjieff's unreadable book. The all time low in sufi degeneration, it must be the last times, at least in sufistic time. We may reach a New Age still.	2000-09-08
2292779:US	50592435	RIVAQNSHS87FX	0766104222	920858365	Tertium Organum	Books	3	4	15	N	N	Evolutionary psychology	Although in a genre of the mystical rejected with vehemence by a scientific age, this, the best, of Ouspensky's works, before he got caught in the morass of the Gurdjieff system, outsmarted such charges by the cogent beginning of his consideration in the works of Kant. Any metaphysical startup needs a Kant bypass routine, Ouspensky's is clever (J.G. Bennett's at the beginning of Dramatic Universe is mostly hot air). The beginning is a tour de force in its perfect pitch for an age of positivism determined it seems to make men forget what man is, and what constitutes his real evolutionary psychology. From this gambit the work is suspect in so far as this invocation of metaphysical austerity is a moment's penitence for a renewed vision of the ghostseer, yet finally it asks the question that haunts the modern technological world, with its ideologically impoverished one-dimensional man. Like Schopenhauer and Hegel together in the shadow of Kant, Ouspensky nonetheless knows he must risk the venture beyond the finished critiques of metaphysics, and his journey carries an extraordinary resemblance to the forgotten steps of Hegel's journey into his own logic of the infinite. One often suspects these reactionaries of wishing to rewrite Hegel without his modernist vein. The comparison is useful, for it reminds us that Hegel, as so often, came here in his groping fashion, and did so alone with less polish what Ouspensky finds in derivative readings of ancient texts, and brought to it the idea of freedom, where Ouspensky still labors in the murky obscurities of political antiquity. The demand for a new logic is, in principle, a perfectly acceptable move, however premature its hope, and the imperfection of the result. At the end, we are left to wonder how a man who struck this note of such charm succumbed so readily to the suspect metaphysics of Gurdjieffian hucksterism.	2000-09-06
2293690:US	50592435	R1WAPN6J045LF1	0394719433	739987572	The Psychology of Man's Possible Evolution	Books	2	8	25	N	N	Laying to rest the great lie of the Code of Manu	In this work Ouspensky perpetuates an historical confusion that vitiates his presentation of the so-called 'Work' and the 'Fourth Way' by injecting his obsessive concern with the antiquated law of caste and the Code of Manu. The claims for the esotericism of the Work, derivative from Sufism, whatever their merits, are needlessly and quite egregiously burderned with this aura of the archaic Russian reactionary. Ouspensky's almost de Maistrean viewpoint, so popular among oblivious liberal westerners lured into this esoteric hunger by its beguiling inuendoes,  contains the absurd suggestion that spiritual esotericism condones and sanctifies one of the most oppressive exploitations in history. Check the history here, unvarnished, and the place of this thinking in the destruction of the Indian Buddhist world. The Code of Manu is an impostor, and springs from the post-Buddhist consolidation of the brahmins whose legacy was to make spiritual equality seem anomalous, when it was always fundamental. Such thinking emerging in the context of early twentieth century fascism was, and is, provocative in the extreme, and should be laid to rest.<br />What is surprising is the inability of many adherents of this so-called spiritual path to face the simple reality that the classic spiritual paths were and are more compatible with a basic democratic attitude than otherwise. The reason is desperately simple, these ways prosper better in an open society!<br />Never feel obligated to take this nonsense seriously.	2000-09-06
2301716:US	50592435	R1W9VCOPOI9ZR1	0156445085	738065609	In Search of the Miraculous (Harvest Book)	Books	3	23	45	N	N	In search of the head on one's shoulders	As a classic account of Ouspensky's encounter with Gurdjieff, thence with a disguised version of the Sufi world, this book is remarkable and worth reading as reminder of the many spiritual disguises of one and the same potential self-consciousness of men of all eras, but as an indication of a spiritual path actually existing it deserves a severe caution, if not a skull and cross bones, as on a jar of poison. Beware of it, and the people who claim to exemplify it after so many years. Disappointing, but necessarily so. Try reading a similar work such as Idries Shah's The Sufis, and note the arbritrary nature of all the content (by and large) describing about the same type of predestigation of method, always the same wiseacred method in the end described plainly in Buddhist sutras on vipassana. The question of the esoteric belongs to authoritarian worlds in a state of hiding, one that is unnecessary now. Bright-eyed candidates of liberal bent for this path created from thin air from a mess of theosophical pottage might consider the reactionary nature of this sage Gurdjieff, the book's account of the trail of the Whites heading south at the onset of revolution, and the plain fact that Gurdjieff, for all his fancy occultism, was a de Maistrean sort of guy, who disapproved of the abolition of slavery, and liked a submissive relationship in disciples. The grounds of spiritual authority subtlely suggested to induce the impulse to surrender the will as one's freedom are spurious, the more so if Gurdjieff in Ouspensky's own view was not even an honest man. This work belongs to an ancient world, and is misleading because it seems to draped in the esoteric and a touch of the modern, when in fact the cosmology is a pastiche of ancient Indian Samkhya transformed in magician smoke. The verdict on a method of spirituality should be the number of its successes, and it was the Indian teacher Rajneesh who noted that this path has never produced a result, realized men. The reason is that the terms described, both as philosophy and method, are too arbritrarily exotic, and finally under suspicion of being made up and leave enthusiasts permanently frozen at the starting point. To concoct a mystery of the enneagram and call it esoteric wisdom takes a peculiar type of brazen hucksterism, since the whole notion is surely a complete fiction, not to say a put on. One of the warnings of Buddhism is, dont' get fancy, and beware of speculation. These vices of metaphysical salesmanship are grimly pervasive in this work and leave desperate seekers tying their head in knots trying to compute self-remberbering or produce an alchemy of higher hydrogens in an addlepated brain. Be ye Lamps unto yourelves, the Buddha warned. Before becoming the piece in another all too tricky play designed to stun the wary, and reveal nothing at cost, it is well to remember the warning. And it is worth remembering Ouspensky's starting point in Tertium Organon with its solid Kantian beginning and metaphysical austerity, all thrown away in this beguiling path that left its own expositor with nothing. Anyway, Gurdjieff is curiously unique, do not therefore grant this to those who claim his teaching. As for the occult demos claimed, either they are fake, and we have fraud, or they are genuine, and we have a fallen yogi indulging in left-hand path skullduggery.at the terms described, both as philosophy and method, are too arbritrarily exotic, and finally under suspicion of being made up and leave enthusiasts permanently frozen at the starting point. To concoct a mystery of the enneagram and call it esoteric wisdom takes a peculiar type of brazen hucksterism, since the whole notion is surely a complete fiction, not to say a put on. One of the warnings of Buddhism is, dont' get fancy, and beware of speculation. These vices of metaphysical salesmanship are grimly pervasive in this work and leave desperate seekers tying their head in knots trying to compute self-remberbering or produce an alchemy of higher hydrogens in an addlepated brain. Be ye Lamps unto yourelves, the Buddha warned. Before becoming the piece in another all too tricky play designed to stun the wary, and reveal nothing at cost, it is well to remember the warning. And it is worth remembering Ouspensky's starting point in Tertium Organon with its solid Kantian beginning and metaphysical austerity, all thrown away in this beguiling path that left its own expositor with nothing. Anyway, Gurdjieff is curiously unique, do not therefore grant this to those who claim his teaching. As for the occult demos claimed, either they are fake, and we have fraud, or they are genuine, and we have a fallen yogi indulging in left-hand path skullduggery.	2000-08-30
2327276:US	50592435	R2GVMY0M6I89XD	0805210245	391077046	Madame Blavatsky's Baboon: A History of the Mystics, Mediums, and Misfits Who Brought Spiritualism to Ameri ca	Books	4	9	16	N	N	East meets West	This useful and interesting account of the history of the New Age movement  is important reading, yet would do better to be read by New Agers lost in  their own miasma, while the general public confronted with sensational  tales of bizarre gurus might profit better from an account that can do  justice to what is really at issue, the nature of Indian (and Sufi)  spiritual history.  Washington's views are hardly surprising in one way  given the history of the New Age movement, but he refuses to give any  foundational data from which to judge what is finally a list of the  failures of the various second rate spiritual teachers he describes, with  none of the successes. Many of these questions are better judged by the  standards of Patanjali's Yoga Sutras, than the mishmash of Darwinism,  Freud, and self-help books that makes up the psychological normative  universe of westerners. This book is nonetheless many fascinating tales in  one, with much ommitted. Blavatsky's baboon tokens the immense reaction and  puzzlement, among many other factors, to the onset of the Darwin legacy,  whose theoretical foundatin no student of Eastern psychology is likely to  find convincing. Before excoriating these sources it is worth realizing  they took the measure of Darwin and decided they wouldn't knuckle under,  and time will prove them right. This counterattack behind the many castaway  fronts that appear, Blavatsky in India, Gurdjieff from the realm of the  sufis, shows a fashion of revolt against being railroaded into false  versions of modernism that is almost spooky it its hidden coordination. And  this leads to endless confusion both in the spiritual movements falling  into ditches and the hysteria of western sceptics wagging their fingers at  a phenomenon that was already visible in the Hellenistic world, what to say  of uprooting it. Washington's book describes a comedy of errors that  delivers a slap in the face to the idiocy of much New Age presumption, but  should indicate at least some aspect of the relative success in these  fields that does exist in Indian and the Islamic world.  It would also help  to take the history backwards to the time of such as Schopenhauer and his  tradition,just before, where the key to a western echo of the Upanishads  and such is already close at hand in a form that is philosophic, but  attempting to bring coherence to these ancient castaways in the middle of  modernism, whose fate will not be decided by editorial denunciation of New  Agers.  But Washington's book shows something that is needed in other  areas, the work of good historians. No adequate histories of the sources of  these subjects, e.g. the sufis, exist at all.at least some aspect of the relative success in these  fields that does exist in Indian and the Islamic world.  It would also help  to take the history backwards to the time of such as Schopenhauer and his  tradition,just before, where the key to a western echo of the Upanishads  and such is already close at hand in a form that is philosophic, but  attempting to bring coherence to these ancient castaways in the middle of  modernism, whose fate will not be decided by editorial denunciation of New  Agers.  But Washington's book shows something that is needed in other  areas, the work of good historians. No adequate histories of the sources of  these subjects, e.g. the sufis, exist at all.	2000-08-11
2328519:US	50592435	R3PIU54W4PDAXF	0830813241	403041738	Darwin on Trial	Books	5	37	65	N	N	Darwin crossexamined	This short and influential work,in the line of many critiques of  Darwinism, including another with the legal metaphor, Macbeth's Darwin  Retried, revealed how easy it is for a non-specialist observer on the  subject of evolution to find flaws in the reasoning in its theoretical  foundation as natural selection. Five short chapters and the job is done,  after a century of rocket science. Often criticized for religious views  that are in fact unstated in the book, the author methodically proceeds to  pick through the misleading presentation of evolution that is omnipresent  in the literature on the subject, and which more than justify the  excoriated outsider's demand for some straightforward answers. Johnson's  critique of the posture of naturalism is open to challenge, no doubt, but  his basic point is clear, a viewpoint is made axiomatic and the theory  moves in relation to that almost unconsciously. While we can consider  extended views of naturalism, disconcerting no doubt the Creationist, it is  true that the record of Darwinism consistently plays ostrich to any  evidence discordant with what it *thinks* must be a 'naturalistic'  explanation. This book is also a challenge to the entrenchment of a  particular paradigm in the universities, a challenge to very foundations of  peer review as this has foisted on the public a perspective on evolution  that is easily shown to be at variance both with the known facts and the  historical record of the research tradition itself. This elusive  indoctrination factor is a scandal that the academic system must finally  reckon with, whatever their opinion of Mr. Johnson. One should also say  that in the beginning, so in the end...The original challenge of Darwin was  to a similar hold on the universities in the time of Paley and his classic  work on the argument by design. Breaking out from this rigidity once again  induces a sense of deja vu.  Whatever one's views on the debate of science  and religion, the many criticisms of Johnson and others miss the point in  the sense that it is not possible to claim a foundation for atheism in a  theory as brittle, almost rigged, as selectionist Darwinism. To have  claimed otherwise, in the fashion in Dawkins, is to trespass the grounds of  the metaphysical with an empirical theory that is theoretically shallow and  ironically sets up the scientific viewpoint for reversal. Looking at the  current Kansas debate, it is important to consider the ways in which  scientists have brought the confusion on themselves.f Johnson and others miss the point in  the sense that it is not possible to claim a foundation for atheism in a  theory as brittle, almost rigged, as selectionist Darwinism. To have  claimed otherwise, in the fashion in Dawkins, is to trespass the grounds of  the metaphysical with an empirical theory that is theoretically shallow and  ironically sets up the scientific viewpoint for reversal. Looking at the  current Kansas debate, it is important to consider the ways in which  scientists have brought the confusion on themselves.	2000-08-10
2328630:US	50592435	R12VPO9GV792I2	0684834936	667246406	Darwin's Black Box: The Biochemical Challenge to Evolution	Books	5	12	22	N	N	Who is the designer?	We always take sides in a debate, and end deceived by our own assumptions. This blinds us to 'dialectic' and the value of finding the cracking point  in one's own perspective.  In many ways Behe's charming book is, for the  evolutionist and/or non-theist the 'job done' in this regard. Although  nothing is certain, the argument of irreducible complexity is so cogent  that even a supporter of evolution must be amused at the panic stricken  efforts to refute Behe's argument. Just desserts is about all that can be  said for the faithful adherents of Darwinian natural selection. It is  important however that this is a good argument against natural selection,  but not an absolute argument for the 'argument by design'. There is a  'counterargument' (in quotation marks, there is perhaps no conclusion  possible!)that is so simple that one forgets to use it. Let us assume for a  moment the reality of irreducible complexity. The conclusion can only be  the failure of the 'non-designer' or 'non-designing', as a concept. As to  the 'designer' we know nothing, and this is not a scientific concept. We  must either abandon science or extend naturalism to include 'design', which  will lead to an undecidable issue.  For we are confronted by the most  ancient confusions of theism, polytheism, and the basic concept of a  'designer', that of will. What finally is 'will' and is this a scientific  concept? It is an undefined concept, barely settled in man, that we would  apply to the exterior of nature, as divinity. The idea is unfortunately  incoherent, and also shows that differential equations that act from the  future, while never explored, are not contradictory, suggesting nature is  vaster than we know with our primitive mathematics, indicating the clear  possibility of some complex evolution to correspond to the complexity of  DNA. It is worth considering that behind the hopeless confusions of  Theosophy, another first challenger to Darwin in the nineteenth century,  lay precisely this issue in the sense that a concept of 'involution' was  required to balance that of evolution. 'Involution' was the net equivalent  of 'will' in the sense that there might be forces that act in relation to  the future, gobbling up the argument by design, etc... These forgotten  views, beside many others,  are hopeless speculations, that cause  consternation in scientists, but a reminder that the design debate is a  closed one between one view of religion and one theory of science. The  Buddhist tradition long bypassed this whole question in its focus on the  issue of man's consciousness and will, in the full concession of design to  a 'naturalistic' unknown. The 'will' of the designer is a most a devil's  concoction, prior to nirvana, the cessation of all will. It is an important  reminder that in a global environment, the argument by design will profit  the Christian nothing, backfire and produce proliferation of metaphysical  speculation, perhaps the source reason for scientific anxiety about  Darwinism as means to settle these issues.  Whatever the case with these  issues, Behe's book is an audacious challenge to the Humean scepticism as  to design, one that a proponent of scientific naturalism might take as a  constructive challenge to really reexamine the foundations of one's views.this issue in the sense that a concept of 'involution' was  required to balance that of evolution. 'Involution' was the net equivalent  of 'will' in the sense that there might be forces that act in relation to  the future, gobbling up the argument by design, etc... These forgotten  views, beside many others,  are hopeless speculations, that cause  consternation in scientists, but a reminder that the design debate is a  closed one between one view of religion and one theory of science. The  Buddhist tradition long bypassed this whole question in its focus on the  issue of man's consciousness and will, in the full concession of design to  a 'naturalistic' unknown. The 'will' of the designer is a most a devil's  concoction, prior to nirvana, the cessation of all will. It is an important  reminder that in a global environment, the argument by design will profit  the Christian nothing, backfire and produce proliferation of metaphysical  speculation, perhaps the source reason for scientific anxiety about  Darwinism as means to settle these issues.  Whatever the case with these  issues, Behe's book is an audacious challenge to the Humean scepticism as  to design, one that a proponent of scientific naturalism might take as a  constructive challenge to really reexamine the foundations of one's views.	2000-08-10
2330879:US	50592435	RP1ZWCO89D0YH	0674076087	63813983	The Black Book of Communism: Crimes, Terror, Repression	Books	5	19	33	N	N	Facts of the Case	Rapidly becoming an indispensable source of information about the legacy  of Communism in the twentieth century, after its controversial appearance  in France, and in the tradition of Robert Conquest's The Great Terror.  After a century of disinformation from all parties in the ideological  spectrum, everyone is left ignorant of their history, and  this work can  serve as a means to start over in one direction on a genuine historical  reconstruction of the full nature of the dialectal debate that became so  derailed by left-right ideological mystifications in the nineteenth century  and proceeded to disaster in the twentieth.	2000-08-09
2333071:US	50592435	R2RLGBRVYMDQ4B	0807055034	66363167	Social Darwinism in American Thought	Books	5	14	45	N	N	The motives of  theory	Hofstadter's classic work remains one of the outstanding challenges to the  effect of Darwin's theory of evolution on social attitudes and beliefs. One  of the great fallacies of evolutionary thinking can arise from the  assumption of universal application of its mechanism of natural selection  to all times, thus to the present and future. This is a fallacy and an  inherent trap in confusing evolutionary process with a natural law, as in  physics. The result of Darwin's theory was to make 'natural selection' a  social strategy in the minds of many in a total confusion of theoretical  domains of application. The outcome was the many variants of Social  Darwinism that stretch into our own times. Hofstadter's documentation of  the many shades of opinion generates a sense of deja vu, for few of the  viewpoints we hear now are new and appear somewhere in the book, in a  merry-go-round of confused thinking. It is a dreadful legacy that too many  fell obligated to correct in the wrong fashion, by exempting Darwin  entirely, and blaming those who came afterwards. In fact, the perception  that Darwin's theory is simply wrong or incomplete is the only antidote to  social Darwinist attitudes, which linger in the tacit belief of too many in  the need to mimic the ruthlessness enjoined by a confused theory. Robert  Bannister's Social Darwinism is also a partial comment on Hofstadter, but  does not supercede this original and enduring work.	2000-08-07
2347431:US	50592435	R3TDDW2IZVWWMD	039330700X	860991951	Wonderful Life: The Burgess Shale and the Nature of History	Books	5	1	3	N	N	History, evolution, and the strange case of the Cambrian	Gould's book is superb in its own way and deserves five stars for eloquence, and half a star for stubborness. Gould is adamant for contingency in evolution, but the book's fascianting exploration of the  Cambrian seeking the  case for this contingency in evolution is the one  great instance where the puzzle, still unsolved, suggests something  different, perhaps the opposite. Surely the Cambrian is the geat  counterevidence to claims for natural selection in evolution. It is  impossible to not smell a rat here. Bizarre creatures of all sorts are  virtually popping out of the Cambrian toaster with complete body plans and  we are to believe this squares with Darwin's thesis. It simply isn't  convincing. I don't buy it. Genomes don't arrive like this. Nonetheless,  Gould's book raises important issues of the idea of progress, and of the  nature of history that, while seemingly out of place, remain dialectically  poised here at the edge of verification or refutation. Part of the problem  with the idea of progress is that its ideological cast from its usage in  nineteenth century culture forever makes it inappropriate for the  description of evolution. Yet this is only really true if we can prove that  natural selection operates exclusively to produce complexity. The Cambrian  looks a tad like evolutionary progression, if not progress, as a result of  directed process, type unknown. As to the nature of history, what do we  know about it? To assume that it occurs in a purely contingent fashion is  not true either, for we can see directionality in our own history, and a  very spectacular kind at that (cf. World History and the Eonic Effect, John  Landon, for this demonstration). So history isn't contingent. Evolution can  be contingent in one way, and directed in another, like cars at a stop  light, in a mixture of processes. Surely the Cambrian demands some  radically new conception of evolution, and evolution taken as a whole.  The  rapid appearance of such coordinated body plans in such a short era simply  does not square with randomness. The literature on the Cambrian suggests a  form of paradigm hysteria, frantic to cover up the stark contradiction  confronting Darwinists, 'here's an elephant but I can't see anything'.  As  to the future of these types and body plans,their dying out or  survival--this proves very little. For if the Cambrian suggests  intermittency, by whatever process, a future intermittency could return on  surviving body plans for a new advance, a possibility strongly suggested,  but to be sure not proven, by the evidence. For we see over and over the  'restarting' from a small subset, as indeed with man, a rapid morphing of a  subset, within a subset, of the great apes. Thus we are confronted with  something that is neither purely contingent, nor purely progressive. This  book should be complemented with such books as Simon Conway Morris'  Crucible of Creation, S. Kaufman's At Home in the Universe, a work on  exobiology such as Here Be Dragons, and radical computations of genomic  mutational statistics such as Independent Birth of Organisms, by Senapathy.  This is a most provocative book, but it convinced me that evolution is  directional, sorry.ody plans in such a short era simply  does not square with randomness. The literature on the Cambrian suggests a  form of paradigm hysteria, frantic to cover up the stark contradiction  confronting Darwinists, 'here's an elephant but I can't see anything'.  As  to the future of these types and body plans,their dying out or  survival--this proves very little. For if the Cambrian suggests  intermittency, by whatever process, a future intermittency could return on  surviving body plans for a new advance, a possibility strongly suggested,  but to be sure not proven, by the evidence. For we see over and over the  'restarting' from a small subset, as indeed with man, a rapid morphing of a  subset, within a subset, of the great apes. Thus we are confronted with  something that is neither purely contingent, nor purely progressive. This  book should be complemented with such books as Simon Conway Morris'  Crucible of Creation, S. Kaufman's At Home in the Universe, a work on  exobiology such as Here Be Dragons, and radical computations of genomic  mutational statistics such as Independent Birth of Organisms, by Senapathy.  This is a most provocative book, but it convinced me that evolution is  directional, sorry.	2000-07-29
2348765:US	50592435	R1YJG84K98MM4X	0684845091	798457954	Nature's Destiny: How the Laws of Biology Reveal Purpose in the Universe	Books	5	9	14	N	N	Evolutionary directionality	The author of Evolution: A Theory In Crisis returns with a new perspective on evolution in terms of anthropic principles. Like an upgrade of Henderson's Fitness of the Environment, it provides a brilliant foundation  for challenging the claims for randomness of Darwinists. It echoes the  sense in a number of physicists in the current generation, such as P.  Davies in The Accidental Universe, or Barrow and Tippler in The Anthropic  Cosmological Principle, that the constants of nature are finely tuned for  life, and that this cannot be taken as accidental.  The rise of modern  science reacts against the teleology of Aristotle and bids to take biology  with it, yet this is not a foregone conclusion and cannot preempt the  dialectical return to teleological issues in biology, a point seen as early  as the philosopher Kant. There can be no doubt this is a difficult  question, yet the assumptions about evolutionary directionality in a work  such as Wonderful Life, by S. J. Gould are not sufficiently established to  be taken with the certainty Darwinists wish for.  This work is a challenge  to the Darwinian legacy claiming heroically the final challenge to the  natural theology of Paley, and yet gives a naturalistic foundation to the  ambiguities of the new arguments by design, an argument that never dies,  and may have no final answer. To have claimed that natural selection was  the final answer to such metaphysical issues always made biological theory  itself a metaphysics in disguise, and the value of Denton's work will,  apart from a dozen other merits,will be a reminder to secular evolutionists  that simplistic theories of evolution cannot easily be pressed into  dogmatic decision procedures about transcendental questions.  Filled with a  host of details, the work is a dramatic and daring step that many  scientists have long feared to take, and the result is the potential of a  new research program to explore the nature of directional evolutionism.	2000-07-28
2355137:US	50592435	R20O056NPT9H18	0195111303	369023993	At Home in the Universe: The Search for the Laws of Self-Organization and Complexity	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	A turning point in the Darwin debate	This important work leads the exodus from one-dimensional Darwinian selectionism in a fashion that does not succumb to transcendental explanation or abdication from naturalism, whatever the word means. The views of George Wald, Hoyle and Wickramasinghe and others have waited a long time for acknowledgement and some real attempts at scientific hypothesis formation. It is also true the road to real answers is a long one, and Kauffman's work does as much to reveal the difficulties as provide the final answers. Every step of the way is likely to receive scorn from those who would bypass the collosal difficulties with the attitude, 'I give up God did it'. This work is liberating and a snapshot of real scientific enquiry in action.	2000-07-25
2356818:US	50592435	R3IC5TX2WUTR35	0521496799	350209058	Hegel: A Biography	Books	5	12	19	N	N	History and Phenomenology	One might hope to master philosophy, yet find it one's master. One could aspire to avoid this and find resolution in science, yet find metaphysics again in this science. These issues find their historical moment of truth  in the passage of German Philosophy as it whitewaters in grand style in the  generation from Kant to Hegel. Pinkard's fascinating history of the great  philosopher of history gives this drama a quiet but exciting chronicle in  the career of Hegel, beginning in the wake of the great critiques of Kant,  and leading through an extraordinary generation that saw the French  Revolution, Napoleon, the Restoration, and finally the July Revolution. We  see the genesis of Hegel's Phenomenology of the Spirit in the midst of the  turbulence of Napoleonic era, thence the perilous passage through the era  of reaction, dangerous to any philosopher. Although Hegel's reputation  seesaws in the confusions of later history still mastered by philosophy,  the cogency of his thinking to our time is direct, recorded in such lowkey  and with the false appearance of reaction in his later works such as the  Philosophy of Right which speaks directly to all the issues of liberal  societies, communist societies, and the explosion of the new market world  that came into being at this time. Just at the end of this extraordinary  tale we see the impetus of revolution start again, one whose tide has  barely ceased in our own post-revolutionary era, with much of Hegel's  perspective ironically apt, just before its turnabout in the Left Hegelian  generation to come, that spawned the Hegelian strains of Marx. We hear the  drumbeat already in the philosopher's direct reflections of a lifetime on  the legacy of the French Revolution, and its contradictions, that so beset  the modern world, at risk of being frozen in the themes of this era of  great beginnings, to which Hegel was such a fair witness. This nickelodeon  is much better than Hollywood.	2000-07-23
2360938:US	50592435	R2OZMBDKXHSIXH	0300029829	370646695	Kant's Life and Thought	Books	5	18	23	N	N	What is Enlightenment?	One of the mysteries of the rise of the modern world is the sudden appearance of the grand phase of German philosophy beginning with the work of Kant, as his thought suddenly flowered late in life with his precipitous  Critique of Pure Reason. Like an echo reverberating across the ages, Kant's  breakthrough both recovered and surpassed the height to which philosophy  had reached in Plato. This thunderclap just at the takeoff of the  revolutionary passage to a new era is the prelude to an entire new universe  of thinking, and joins the world of science, the Enlightenment, with a  world as ancient as the Upanishads and as futuristic as Quantum Mechanics.  Cassirer's philosophical biography is one of the clearest and most cogent  introductions to the Kant's life and work and is a classic in its own  right.	2000-07-20
2367757:US	50592435	R1999NVL0GTAZX	0393311503	16121847	Darwin: The Life of a Tormented Evolutionist	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Darwin the Whig	This is one of the most fascinating biographies of Darwin, and one that puts him in the appropriate context of the nineteenth century. This background is almost essential for grasping the social attitudes that  surround the controversies over evolution. These issues influence the  debate to such a degree that the actual work of theory and evidence can be  lost in the tides of ideology. This work, along with The Politics of  Evolution, shows just how difficult a career the idea of evolution had in  wake of the radical politics spawned in the generation after the French  Revolution. An idea associated with radicalism and the political world of  Lamarck comes from its underground to social acceptance in Darwin's  conservatizing formulation. The tale is also one of the challenge of  emerging institutional science to the establishment Anglican world, wherein  the works of Paley were required reading at Oxford well into the twentieth  century. This underdog theory becomes the new established paradigm. This  influence of culture on the formulation of theory is visible in the  thorough and engaging account of this biography, one that x-rays Darwin the  man in a fashion that must caution the usual exemption he receives from  Social Darwinism. Whatever the issues of evolution, Darwin the man is one  of the great studies of this era, and understanding him is impossible  without attempting to decipher the nineteenth century transformation of  culture in which he lived.	2000-07-16
2367769:US	50592435	R392YVR8Y1037Y	1880582244	881989203	Not by Chance! Shattering the Modern Theory of Evolution	Books	5	18	35	N	Y	The Handwriting on the Wall	This is a most useful and interesting critique of the Neo-Darwinian Synthesis, and it is hard to know where Darwinists have been all these years maintaining a position that, as Spetner points out, always defied  common sense. Perhaps, just for that reason, the need to undo common sense  with biological dogma under educational stress, the persistence of  Darwinism has rendered everyone a theoretical cripple. One must caution  that no argument is yet without flaws, and the injection of new thinking  about information by Spetner is as important as it is still incomplete. But  the argument, without providing a full alternative, can help to provide a  new foundation of 'theoretical self-repair' after the protestant  reformation of the Darwin religion. Spetner's controversial somewhat  speculative notions at the end about environmental induction of variation  must constitute the last straw for Darwinists leary of Larmarck but this  new perspective has a funny rightness to it, however much we still have to  learn. Excellent, though perhaps too short.	2000-07-16
2387639:US	50592435	R26G7LP5ADNG5L	068486309X	862019174	The FIFTH MIRACLE: The Search for the Origin and Meaning of Life	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Life: Theory at the cutting edge	The author of The Cosmic Blueprint with its intimations of hardware and software laws gives us an engaging extended query as to the orgin of life and highlights the still ongoing enigma of biogenesis. Between the  randomness and contingency of the Darwinian view, and the biological  determinism of exterrestrial researchers or proponents of self-organization  Davies brings a question about the relations of these contraries with a  crucial twist: &quot;the whole point of the genetic code is to *free* life  from the shackles of nonrandom chemical bonding&quot;. This and many other  issues, from life on Mars, to the Panspermia hypothesis conclude with a  question, is the Universe Biofriendly. A very helpful flashlight in the fog  of the intractable problem of the genesis of life.	2000-07-05
2392137:US	50592435	R3NP90NX8HFE1U	091756152X	760519181	Evolution: A Theory In Crisis	Books	5	10	24	N	Y	Evolution: in search of a theory	This work is a classic critique of Darwin's theory of natural selection and it is remarkable to think this work was written a year before The Blind Watchmaker. A lost generation still hasn't reckoned with the oddity of  their belief system.  It can be very difficult to study evolution in the  current textbook environment, for the presentation is always a misleading  hedge with the key difficulties glossed over. A completely open account of  the real difficulties of theory is almost essential as a starting point of  study, and this work makes the strangeness of the position of most  Darwinists grimly apparent. It is lumped together with Creationist  positions, but nowhere in the book is there any clear indication of this.  One can privisionally embrace evolution as a strong generalized hypothesis  based even on spotty fossil evidence, without claims as to the mechanism  which remains a mystery.  The final chapter on the priority of the paradigm  is a reminder that the issue is almost more one of the nature of these  scientific paradigms than of the socalled evidence.	2000-07-02
2393802:US	50592435	R3AVJG8A0P697R	0198237227	561638088	The Philosophy of Schopenhauer	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Noumenal mysteries, phenomenal books	This engaging account of Schopenhauer is an artful doubleplay and is a fascinating introduction to Schopenhauer and Kant at the same time, with a bird's eye view of the context of modern philosophy starting with Descartes  and leading to Hume that is crowned by the sudden flowering of German  'idealism'. Magee's useful mountaineer's guide through the perilous  foothills of the Kant Himalayas, capped by Schopenhauer's classic response,  is a way to jumpstart a beginning study in this area. Realizing the many  influences of Schopenhauer, as Magee points to them, on subsequent artists  and philosophers is an invaluable insight into the history of philosophy  and culture.	2000-07-01
2422297:US	50592435	R34SY22F9QREKX	0964130408	357935589	Independent Birth of Organisms. A New Theory that Distinct Organisms Arose Independently from the Primordial Pond, Showing that Evolutionary Theories are Fundamentally Incorrect	Books	5	5	7	N	N	The Mystery of t he Genome	Mr. Senapathy's approach to evolution is one of the most interesting explorations that I have read and highlights the difficulties of current Darwinian thinking. Too many books gloss over the difficulties of theory  leaving the reader to read between the lines. The stark realities of the  current difficulties with evolutionary theory are brought out very clearly  by the book. The treatment of the statistical problems in the 'evoluton' of  genes is devastating, and a fascinating upgrade of the arguments of Hoyle  and Wrickramasinghe in Evoluton from Space.  Whatever the status of  Senapathy's own complex theory, the penetration of the Darwin fog is  extremely salutary reading. Darwinian theory seems like a daydream after  reading this book. Fascinating.	2000-06-15
2431007:US	50592435	RULE41CJCT041	0300055986	104837671	Cosmos, Chaos and the World to Come: The Ancient Roots of Apocalyptic Faith	Books	5	6	8	N	N	The hidden history of Christianity	Norman Cohn's history of the Zoroastrian idea is one of the most informative and useful studies of a complex subject available. The influence of Zorastrianism on the emergence of monotheism should be common  knowledge, yet seems to escape public attention in its exclusive focus on  the Judaeo-Christian tradition. Highly recommended for students of  religion, and/or of world history.	2000-06-11
2431659:US	50592435	R2O748KK2M2XU3	0807056790	483660751	The Great Transformation: The Political and Economic Origins of Our Time	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Genesis of the Market Order	Polanyi's classic is one of the most cogent treatments of the rise of market society ever written, and shows that conceptions of historical dynamics often cover over the fact that it is people who decide how to  create the rules of economies, there is nothing inevitable about them. This  account shows another picture of nineteenth century economic history  leading into the twentieth that revisionist history would often wish to  forget. A great and enduring work.	2000-06-11
2431924:US	50592435	R309MUJRAFELYI	0679744061	819813809	Unauthorized Version: Truth and Fiction in the Bible	Books	5	5	7	N	N	The complexity of the Old Testament	Although perhaps too secular for many (compare Friedman's Who Wrote The Bible?), this work in fact is a brilliant summary of the state of Biblical Criticism in its entire confusion of accounts. Getting one's bearings in  this field of utterly misleading renditions is difficult, to say the least,  and Fox's account cuts through the nearly sophistical layers of myths and  scholarly myths about those myths that keep the Old Testament in a kind of  evidentiary limbo. Most enjoyable, although no work is the last word in  this field.	2000-06-11
2442389:US	50592435	R3AWWNZ4GOE6AH	0941690857	782857472	Debating Darwin: Adventures of a Scholar	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Philosophist, Biologer...	A fscinating semi-biographical account by the author of The Death of Adam, and Science, Ideology and World View. Many theoretical biologists take umbrage at the suggestion they might actually be philosophers with a hidden  metaphysical agenda. John Greene has always attempted eloquently to  disabuse the Darwinist of his presumptions in this regard. The history of  Darwinism is important to study in order to understand the disguised  ideological context in which its fallacies of evolutionary mechanism  (amidst its triumphs of evolutionary fact)became fixed rigidly in place.  Like a prophecy of the philosopher Kant Darwinism promptly ran afoul of the  'Big Three', divinity, soul, and free will, taking positions that are  legitimate as dialectical explorations, if they are hypotheses, but  illegitimate if they are taken as rigid axioms, or established foundations.	2000-06-05
2593804:US	50592435	R2ZH3WX1HTSX72	0262731029	160716728	Beyond Natural Selection (MIT Press)	Books	5	18	22	N	N	The falsifiability of natural selection	This is one of the most helpful critiques of the dogma of natural selection, along with Soren Lovtrup's Darwinism: Refutation of a Myth, and Robert Reid's Evolutionary Theory: The Unfinished Synthesis. Filled with  the hard evidence you won't find in textbooks and that explodes Darwin's  claims,without rejecting the broad context of evolution, the book cogently  attempts to reach a broader systems view that looks at the transformations  of the genome as a whole. Although the intimations of chaos theory here are  a bit simplistic, no substitute theory is required to demonstrate the fact  that natural selection simply cannot account for the rising number of  factual discrepancies. This type of exploration of new ground is both vital  and timely. The author's wry suggestion that the six-leggedness of insects  falsifies natural selection is but one of the many insights. His disposal  of sexual selection is another. Any Darwin dogmatist should be afraid of  this book. If you read it, you will snap out of it and end up a Darwin  doubter. Bravo.  John Landon  nemonemini@eonix.8m.com	2000-03-15
2594904:US	50592435	R3GUKHEKK8E0TH	026216180X	864767463	Tower of Babel: The Evidence against the New Creationism	Books	3	7	12	N	N	The evolution of language	Although this book gives a fascinating snapshot of the Darwin debate in action, its arguments are flawed, and seemingly stubborn in the face of the real challenge of the current design movement. The point is to stop using flawed arguments to refute Creationists, for this only feeds the debate.<br />  Philip Johnson's Darwin on Trial, agree or not, made a case that is not countered by simple reiteration of stale selectionism, indignant quotes from Dawkins, or moonshine about genetic algorithms.<br />The central metaphor of the book, the Tower of Babel, leads the author into dangerous territory. The evolution of language (not the same as the evolution of the capacity of language) is most misleadingly compared with organismic evolution. The historical fate and 'evolution so-called' of vocabulary as seen in Indo-European languages cannot be generalized to the evolution of language as a whole. The latter is terra incognita. We have no real evidence of how language evolved. To say that because the original Indo-European languages split apart into Sanskrit, Greek, Latin, then from Latin into Spanish, French, Italian we have evidence of 'evolution' is complete nonsense. These transformations are all highly suggestive of downhill degenerations of original highly complex grammars whose origin is a mystery. But evidence of grammars going from simple to complex in other branches of the language tree is still of no help to Darwinists. Thus Pennock has picked one of the worst examples possible and simply throws doubt on his entire critique.	2000-03-15
2605082:US	50592435	R1QYAM1LUUD85Z	0140264450	445923384	The Origins of Virtue: Human Instincts and the Evolution of Cooperation	Books	2	10	39	N	N	Is Darwinism a Social Construction?	The former editor of the Economist weighs in with the sociobiological piece de resistance, the solution to the riddle of the evolution of altruism in what must be one of the biggest swindles in the history of science, gleaming with concealed ideology, and whose basis is the rankest speculation about something we know little about. As man approaches the complexities of the genome it is important for the public to be clear that claims in heavily promoted books getting a wink by the Darwin establishment does not constitute proof that they are true. We are under no obligation to accept such a cockeyed thesis as science. We in fact have no solid evidence whatever that natural selection is the central mechanism of evolution, leastwise of the emergence of altruism. Darwinism always had a problem with altruism until this style of sociobiological reasoning (against the furious protest of many evolutionists, cf. P. Kitcher, Vaulting Ambition)crept into the basic pitch, and defied all its critics to reach the bestseller ranks of pop Darwinism. The embarrasing prescence of Adam Smith economic reasoning, whatever its independent validity, in disguise to make self-interest the talisman of both riches and evolutionary advance should make us wonder at the fine thought of another economist,\\"The ruling ideas of the era are the ideas of the Bourgeoisie\\".	2000-03-08
2623782:US	50592435	R3AC9LBM2HA9O5	0609801406	959001228	Full House: The Spread of Excellence from Plato to Darwin	Books	3	0	17	N	N	directionality	Gould fascinating book is to be reckoned with, but the argument won't stand. The rise of modern science began with a challenge to the teleology of Aristotle and prospers in this in the realm of physics, while the  imitation of this perspective in biology, although essential as a starting  point perhaps,is and remains unclear. Gould's emphasis against  directionality is an important challenge to wild speculation about  teleology but in the end simply highlights the increasingly obvious  appearance of an ambiguous directionality across the range of the fossil  record. The irony in Gould's book comes at the end, where he cites the  example of modern music in relation to genius. But this is unfortunately  the precise counterexample to his thesis, for this has a different  explanation. The range and distribution of much great art, cultural  advance, indeed even science,across world history shows an eonic effect, a  directionality that clearly corresponds to a nonrandom pattern (Cf. World  History and the Eonic Effect, John Landon). The result is the 'punctuated  equilibrium' so long sought for right in our midst. As strange as it seems,  the incidence of genius by this evidence is only indirectly a genetic  phenomenon. The classic example is right in front of us, Classical Greece.  Why does this precise era stand out as such a rapid advance? It is part of  this eonic evolution, and corresponds to something far different from the  hypothesis of random emergence and has nothing to do with genetics. John  Landon nemonemini@eonix.8m.com	2000-02-22
2634557:US	50592435	R1FA004N18BI80	0393315703	194483165	The Blind Watchmaker: Why the Evidence of Evolution Reveals a Universe without Design (Reissued in 2006 and 1996)	Books	2	6	38	N	N	Blind Homers: why human history shows evidence of design	This book has confused an entire generation of students. We do not have and never did have hard proof natural selection has generated the complexity of evolution. We have never been present at the events indicated  by assumption to evolve according to Darwin's fantasy theory. Period. The  only closely sampled evidence we have at the level of centuries of the  evolution of anything is our own history, and that shows clear design. We  must take 'design' from its theistic implications, then the word, to be  sure, becomes ambiguous. But if we are free of the agendas of the term, its  meaning is roughly clear, although an enigma. History shows an eonic  effect, the close clustering of evolutionary processes in art, civil  development, religion, technology, and much else. We can see especially  that much great art appears on cue by design in a strange frequency.  One  of the unconscious motives of Darwinism seems to be to deflect attention  from history to claims of unobserved evolution, to fulfill an ideological  agenda. And that was always clear in Dawkins' extreme treatment of  evolution. John Landon  nemonemini@eonix.8m.com	2000-02-14
2933516:US	50592435	R1YCN0T3YB10NW	0393307794	171680134	The Origins of Greek Civilization: 1100-650 B.C.	Books	5	12	14	N	N	excellent on Archaic Greece	Starr's mini-classic details the seminal world of Archaic Greece in a way that makes clear the sources of the latter Greek Miracle-the Clsassical period. He points to the suddenness of the early takeoff in the age of  Hesiod and after, the almost mysterious coming together of the Greek  foundations. In a few generations the complete phenomenon came into being.	1999-01-18
2935805:US	50592435	R8ASSO0CWORMK	0614216249	454369530	Egypt Before the Pharaohs	Books	5	16	17	N	N	recommendation for students of ancient history	This out-of-print study is a vivid description of the sources of the world before the great pyramid age, analogous to the period of Archaic Greece before the Classical. The small beginnings are as significant as the  flowerings. Hoffman makes clear the rapid acceleration in development that  took place in the so-called Gerzean age, ca. 3300 to 3000 BC. A charming  book for students of ancient history.	1999-01-14
