746:US	50676891	R1YXPI71FNYAII	0312281803	843757708	The Needs of Strangers	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Very Good but Incomplete	This interesting essay is modeled on the provocative essays of Ignatieff's mentor, the great Isaiah Berlin. In this work, Ignatieff explores the idea of need and its consequences for how we think about the political and social organization of our societies.  Ignatieff's point of departure is the fact that the modern welfare states provide, as a matter of right, support for a few narrowly defined physical needs but that this leaves a large range of important needs untouched.  Satisfaction of these needs has left not only other important needs unsatisfied but has resulted in an erosion of social solidarity essential to certain aspects of needs.  Ignatieff sets out to explore historic conceptions of need and how they relate to influential political and economic theories.  Having defined the problem, Ignatieff proceeds to a series of interesting essays examining conceptions of need and various analyses of society.  These include a sensitive reading of King Lear as a study of natural versus social man, a relevant analysis of Augustine, and particularly good study of the implications of Hume's philosophy using Hume's death as it fulcrum, and a nice comparison of Adam Smith and Rousseau.  Ignatieff demonstrates that conceptions of need are variable, often contradictory, and that different conceptions have markedly different consdequences for how we think society should be organized.  These sections are insightful and Ignatieff is a very good and often eloquent writer.  The deficiency of this book is that having exposed these difficulties, Ignatieff makes no effort to show a way forward except to say that we need to develop a \\"language of needs.\\"  Presumably, this means some kind of common vocabulary that would allow us to address the problems of defining and addressing many human needs.  Aside from the ambiguity of his statements, he makes no effort to suggest how such a vocabulary could be constructed.  What kind of definitions could be used?  Is there a typology of needs possible?  Is there a hierarchy of needs?  How does this impact on thinking about organizing society.  These are difficult questions but having set the stage for addressing these issues, Ignatieff abruptly rings down the curtain.possible?  Is there a hierarchy of needs?  How does this impact on thinking about organizing society.  These are difficult questions but having set the stage for addressing these issues, Ignatieff abruptly rings down the curtain.	2005-10-13
6426:US	50676891	R1R34X0POUSA28	0195169891	407968159	Harvey Cushing: A Life in Surgery	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Excellent	Another excellent book from the Canadian historian Michael Bliss.  This biography is a companion volume to Bliss's outstanding biography of the great William Osler. Together, these biographies tell the story not only of their subjects but also of the rise of North American medicine from provincial status to equality, and in some respects superiority, with the great clinical centers of Europe.  Harvey Cushing was the first great pioneering surgeon produced by the USA or Canada.  As much as a single person can be said to generate a field, Cushing was the progenitor of neurosurgery.  Born and raised in Cleveland, Ohio, Cushing was the product of a line of respected physicians of New England extraction.  From his parents, he inherited a Puritan sense of mission, rectitude, and a remarkable dedication to work.  Educated at Harvard Medical School, he sought post-graduate training at the epicenter of the revolution in American medical education that was Johns Hopkins University Hospital.  At Hopkins he became a protege of Osler and started his surgical career under the direction of the outstanding and rather erratic William Halstead.  Ambitious and remarkably diligent, Cushing set out to make his mark by pioneering an area of surgery avoided by other pioneering surgeons - brain surgery.  A remarkably facile technical surgeon, Cushing was obsessed with improving all aspects of surgical care, including use of careful clinical diagnostic methods, improvement of anesthetic management, and post-operative care.  Despite formidable obstacles, Cushing succeeded in creating a new discipline.  His methods were adopted widely and his trainees became the founding neurosurgeons in many regions.  Bliss gives a vivid impression of surgical practice in this period and of Cushing's innovations.  To read these sections is to appreciate the remarkable progress made in the last century.  At the end of his career, Cushing was pleased to attain 10% operative mortality for operations on intracranial tumors, a figure that seems horrifying today.  Bliss is careful to note Cushing's considerable defects.  He was a stringent, sometimes abusive preceptor.  His ambition was manifested not only by his drive to do the utmost to improve clinical care but also by considerable arrogance.  He inspired great loyalty but seems to  have been respected rather than loved by many.  He was a difficult husband and an absentee father.  But while his relations with colleagues and trainees could be stormy, in his treatment of patients he appears to have behaved with compassion and tact.  Bliss does a good job of putting Cushing's achievements in the context of broader developments.  While Cushing became the most famous American surgeon with a substantial international reputation, other American surgeons, like Halstead, George Crile and the Mayo brothers, were producing substantial improvements in surgical practice.<br /><br />Its impossible to avoid comparing this book with the Osler book.  In terms of scholarship and quality of writing, this book is on par with the Osler biography.  Still, this is not quite as enjoyable a read, largely for 2 reasons.  The Osler biography is also the story of the institutional maturation of American/Canadian medicine, a remarkable story.  Cushing's development of a new surgical discipline is not qute as impressive as the institutional transformation accomplished by Osler's generation.  As the subject of a biography, Cushing is also not as attractive a personality as Osler.  Bliss depicts Cushing as a remarkable man and Bliss clearly respects and admires Cushing.  Osler, on the other hand, inspires not only respect and admiration, but also affection.  Regardless, this Cushing biography is first-rate and combined with the Osler book, gives a peerless impression of American/Canadian medicine in its first flush of maturity.nial tumors, a figure that seems horrifying today.  Bliss is careful to note Cushing's considerable defects.  He was a stringent, sometimes abusive preceptor.  His ambition was manifested not only by his drive to do the utmost to improve clinical care but also by considerable arrogance.  He inspired great loyalty but seems to  have been respected rather than loved by many.  He was a difficult husband and an absentee father.  But while his relations with colleagues and trainees could be stormy, in his treatment of patients he appears to have behaved with compassion and tact.  Bliss does a good job of putting Cushing's achievements in the context of broader developments.  While Cushing became the most famous American surgeon with a substantial international reputation, other American surgeons, like Halstead, George Crile and the Mayo brothers, were producing substantial improvements in surgical practice.   <br />Its impossible to avoid comparing this book with the Osler book.  In terms of scholarship and quality of writing, this book is on par with the Osler biography.  Still, this is not quite as enjoyable a read, largely for 2 reasons.  The Osler biography is also the story of the institutional maturation of American/Canadian medicine, a remarkable story.  Cushing's development of a new surgical discipline is not qute as impressive as the institutional transformation accomplished by Osler's generation.  As the subject of a biography, Cushing is also not as attractive a personality as Osler.  Bliss depicts Cushing as a remarkable man and Bliss clearly respects and admires Cushing.  Osler, on the other hand, inspires not only respect and admiration, but also affection.  Regardless, this Cushing biography is first-rate and combined with the Osler book, gives a peerless impression of American/Canadian medicine in its first flush of maturity.	2005-10-10
17998:US	50676891	R1FZLV5SBYZCEB	0743407407	602177714	The Children's War: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Very Good	This is a very ambitious alternative history novel set in a world in which Nazi Germany was not defeated in WWII.  The key turning point appears to have been a decision not to invade the Soviet Union, leaving Nazi Germany dominated Europe facing the Soviet Union and the North American Union, an amalgamation of the USA and Canada.  This long (>1100 pages) book centers on the brutal experiences of a Nazi slave and a resistance movement centered on a residual Polish state.  The complex plot and many characters are handled well.  The depiction of the slave's life is unsparing and convincing.  The author does a good job of showing a corrupt totalitarian state gradually decaying.  There is also pointed social commentary, inspired by American contemporary indifference to genocide in other nations, of the failure of American democracy to deal well with these moral catastrophes.  Overall, this is good performance by the author.  A problem with the book is that the central premise is implausible.  Its hard to imagine Hitler and the Nazi state not going to war against the Soviet Union.  The desire for eastern lebensraum and hatred of communism was just as deeply embedded in the Nazi psyche as their bizarre racial ideology, indeed, the two were intertwined.  Similarly, its hard to imagine a Nazi state giving the necessary space to a resistance movement of the type presented in this book.	2005-10-03
26680:US	50676891	RHMW5DTR4UTYW	0306813866	862827062	The Last Valley: Dien Bien Phu and the French Defeat in Vietnam	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Excellent; 4.5	This is very well written description and analysis of the battle of Dien Bien Phu, the famous engagement where the Viet Minh defeated the French in the early 1950s.  The author has synthesized a large body of secondary literature, primarily French and unavailable to English-speaking readers, into an unusually clear and coherent narrative.  A significant virtue of this book is that Windrow does a very nice job of framing the context and signficance of the battle.  The first third of the book is a very good summary of the 1st Indochina War up to Dien Bien Phu and an excellent pair of analyses of the characteristics of the French and Viet Minh forces.  The battle narrative is also excellent.  Often vividly written with a good balance of straight narrative, commentary, and quotations from the primary sources.<br /><br />Dien Bien Phu was an effort to break a strategic and tactical deadlock.  The French, given their limited resources, were unable to attack and crush the Viet Minh in their strongholds and the peripheral parts of Vietnam.  The Viet Minh were unable to meet the French in conventional warfare in the more heavily populated parts of Viet Nam like the Red River Delta.  The French plan was to lure the Viet Minh into a confrontation where French artillery and airpower would allow them to inflict punishing casulties on the Viet Minh.  Essentially, the French professionals underestimated the logistic and artillery capacities of the Viet Minh and overestimated their own capacities in these domains.  The result was a set piece battle with elements of 18th century siege warfare and WWI.  An enormous French defeat though the Viet Minh did suffer very large casulties.<br /><br />This is an excellent book but does have some deficiencies.  A major one is unavoidable.  This is primarily the story of the French at Dien Bien Phu.  Until the Vietnamese government opens its archives, the available literature and documents are largely French.  At this time, its not possible to write the complete story of the battle, though Windrow does a fine job of using the available literature to tell as much of the Viet Minh side as possible.  Another problem lies in the subtitle of the book, though not actually in Windrow's text.  The implication of the subtitle (probably chosen by the publisher), and common perception, is that Dien Bien Phu was a \\"decisive\\" battle.  The French loss being responsible for the French withdrawal.  This is not correct.  The French were already at the bargaining table in Geneva to negotiate their withdrawal.  There was little support in France for continuing the war and this was known to everyone.  As Windrow points out, a French victory would have been used as bargaining leverage at the negotiating table but would not have changed the French decision to disengage from Vietnam.  The extent to which the outcome of the battle influenced negotiation is actually unclear.  Certainly, it speeded French withdrawal but the French were actually surprised at the relatively favorable nature of the settlement.  The Viet Minh leadership expected to obtain all of Viet Nam and felt betrayed by their Chinese allies.<br /><br />There are also a couple of minor defects.  The maps are placed in one section of the book, rather than in the appropriate chapters.  This is awkward.  Windrow commits a minor misstep at the end of the book.  He blames the events of Viet Nam for alienating the French military from civilian government and suggests this sense of betrayal (magnified during the Algerian conflict) as being responsible for the rather negative role played by the military in the last 50s and early 60s.  This included a prominent military role in ending the Fourth Republic and the attempted coup against the De Gaulle government.  Windrow's point is a fair one but incomplete.  The French Army in particular had a long history of involvement in politics in a rather negative sense dating back to the 19th century (think of the Dreyfus affair).  The officer corps had a history of identification with the most reactionary political elements of French society.  After the fall of France in 1940, the French military placed considerably more importance on preserving the integrity of the armed forces than on supporting democratic government institutions and gave crucial support to the semi-fascist Vichy regime.  Military alienation from civilian governments was hardly novel and partly self-inflicted.r corps had a history of identification with the most reactionary political elements of French society.  After the fall of France in 1940, the French military placed considerably more importance on preserving the integrity of the armed forces than on supporting democratic government institutions and gave crucial support to the semi-fascist Vichy regime.  Military alienation from civilian governments was hardly novel and partly self-inflicted.	2005-09-29
36800:US	50676891	RB50AHOGA72IU	0679642889	323374805	Evolution: The Remarkable History of a Scientific Theory (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Solid Concise Treatment	This is a concise treatment of the history of evolutionary theory, beginning with the great French morphologists of the late 18th and early 19th centuries and finishing with some recent developments in the application of evolutionary theory to behavioral questions.  Larson is a very good writer and accomplished scholar who lays out the primary narrative very well.  He also deals well with important and related historical phenemona like the emergence of eugenics, the anti-evolution movement in the USA, and the nature of social Darwinism.  There is a nice bibliographic essay recommending further reading, though I was surprised to see Michael Ruse's excellent book The Darwinian Revolution not mentioned.<br /><br />Part of the Modern Library Chronicles series, this book is supposed to be concise and within these limits, Larson does an excellent job.  My only substantial criticism concerns the last chapter, entitled Post-Modern Developments.  Modern in this case refers to the so-called modern synthesis of the 1930s and 1940s, the great reconciliation of Darwinian theory, modern genetics, and paleontology.  In his discussion of post-modern developments, Larson doesn't discuss the major impact of DNA sequencing, experiments concerning selection, or discoveries in developmental biology that amount to establishing a molecular version of Haeckel's biogenetic law.  These developments providing continuing major support for one of the most successful theories in the history of science.	2005-09-24
40757:US	50676891	R1Q7ZW9BJ460I5	0674854292	116036272	Summer for the Gods: The Scopes Trial and America's Continuing Debate over Science and Religion	Books	4	26	28	N	N	Excellent	This Pulitzer Prize winning book is a careful attempt to dispell the myths surrounding the Scopes Trial.  As Larson points out, these misconceptions stem largely from popular accounts of the trial, such as the play Inherit The Wind, which tend to present the conflict as one between dogmatic and oppressive fundamentalist religion and enlightened liberal rationalism.  History, as usual, is much more complex, as shown in the nuanced and fair minded account.  The book is essentially divided into 3 parts; a description and analysis of the social and intellectual currents that lead to the trial, a narrative of the trial itself, and an account of the short-term and long-term impact of the trial.<br /><br />All sections are very well written with ample documentation from primary sources and a nice combination of the author's narrative and quotations.  This book is relatively short but covers all the important features and a lot of telling detail in thorough manner.  Perhaps the most interesting portions are the initial chapters describing the genesis of the trial.  Far from being a straightforward conflict between dogmatic religion and liberal rationalism, the trial occurred because of a nexus of semi-independent currents.  One important feature was the existence of strong conflicts within American Protestantism between so-called modernizers and more traditional elements, though these traditional elements developed some aspects of a more radical reaction.  The foes of evolution were far from dogmatic literalists.  William Jennings Bryan, for example, espoused non-literal interpretations of key aspects of Scripture and a theistic view of evolution, several of whose key features he accepted as true.  Bryan and many of his allies were driven by concerns that evolution related doctrines, such as Social Darwinism, were anti-democratic.  They were concerned, however, that materialist doctrines like evolution were undermining the status of religion and a source of moral corruption.  Bryan was concerned also with majoritarian views on public education, consistent with his long-standing populism.  At the same time, the trial occurred at a time when the scientific community was becoming increasingly convinced of the validity of Darwinian positions, fueled by recent developments in genetics and paleontology.  The consolidation of the scientific consensus did narrow the ground on which scientists could meet religion.  The trial was mounted as test case by the nascent ACLU, which was concerned less with the religous aspects than with its efforts to expand 1st amendment rights and academic freedom.  In some respects, the Scopes Trial was less a conflict between right and left than a family feud between different components of the Progressive movement that had fractured during WWI.  The ACLU underwrote both prosecution and defense expenses and the trial was conducted in a relatively collegial atmosphere.  Contrary to the impression from Inherit The Wind, if anyone succeeded, its was the anti-evolution side as the trial was followed by anti-evolution statutes in other southern states and revision of high school biology texts to soft-pedal evolution.<br /><br />Larson closes by discussing how some themes of the Scopes Trial persist in our society.  Again, this is a even handed discussion.  Evangelical concerns about the corrupting effects of materialist ideas continue, and again, there is some sense among evangelicals that basic principles are under siege.  A point not mentioned by Larson is that research of the last 20-30 years has strongly supported crucial features of evolutionary theory and the theory is much stronger and more complete than it was in 1920s.  Entangled with these issues are perennial American conflicts over majority rule versus minority rights and what constitutes the boundaries of free speech and academic freedom.yan was concerned also with majoritarian views on public education, consistent with his long-standing populism.  At the same time, the trial occurred at a time when the scientific community was becoming increasingly convinced of the validity of Darwinian positions, fueled by recent developments in genetics and paleontology.  The consolidation of the scientific consensus did narrow the ground on which scientists could meet religion.  The trial was mounted as test case by the nascent ACLU, which was concerned less with the religous aspects than with its efforts to expand 1st amendment rights and academic freedom.  In some respects, the Scopes Trial was less a conflict between right and left than a family feud between different components of the Progressive movement that had fractured during WWI.  The ACLU underwrote both prosecution and defense expenses and the trial was conducted in a relatively collegial atmosphere.  Contrary to the impression from Inherit The Wind, if anyone succeeded, its was the anti-evolution side as the trial was followed by anti-evolution statutes in other southern states and revision of high school biology texts to soft-pedal evolution.  <br />Larson closes by discussing how some themes of the Scopes Trial persist in our society.  Again, this is a even handed discussion.  Evangelical concerns about the corrupting effects of materialist ideas continue, and again, there is some sense among evangelicals that basic principles are under siege.  A point not mentioned by Larson is that research of the last 20-30 years has strongly supported crucial features of evolutionary theory and the theory is much stronger and more complete than it was in 1920s.  Entangled with these issues are perennial American conflicts over majority rule versus minority rights and what constitutes the boundaries of free speech and academic freedom.	2005-09-21
62762:US	50676891	RROVZ4SBO56MW	0891415378	127792381	1901: A Novel	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Solid; 3.5	Alternative history has become a relatively popular genre, often based on alternative outcomes in wars.  This competently written and plotted book is based on the implausible premise that Germany invades the USA in an effort to confiscate the American gains of the Spanish-American War.  Conroy seems to know his American history very well and does a pretty good job of constructing a story involving well known (politicians like Teddy Roosevelt) and not so well known (important figures in the contemporary American armed forces, now largely forgotten)figures in our recent past.  Conroy develops a major theater of war in New York and Connecticut and develops a realistic warfare scenario. This war anticipates many features of WWI, just as the Russo-Japanese War did.  As is often the case with these books, part of the pleasure is looking for what amounts to insider jokes in the form of displays of historical erudition.  In this book, some famous figures like Douglas MacArthur, William Halsey, and Ernest King make cameo appearances as young men.  Conroy does less well in his treatment of Imperial Germany, which was a semi-democracy and not quite the authoritarian state implied here. A enjoyable read.  This book is comparable in construction to almost any of Harry Turtledove's similar books and arguably better written.	2005-09-10
78083:US	50676891	R33TMON3HM8FTV	1400040310	845366857	His Excellency: George Washington	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Very Good	Joseph Ellis is making a career of publishing concise studies of the great Revolutionary generation.  In his prior studies of Jefferson and Adams, he has aimed for psychological penetration in the setting of providing an overview of the figure of interest.  This book on Washington is a little different.  It is arranged chronologically covering the major features of Washington's life.  Ellis does include an attempt at psychological insight but I am not sure that he does much better than most conventional biographies, or the discussions of Washington in Middlekauf's excellent survey of the Revolution, The Glorious Cause.  That said, this is a fine concise biography.  Ellis is a fine writer and made a strong effort to look at Washington with relatively fresh eyes by basing this book primarily on a careful review of the now almost completely published Washington papers.  The book provides a nicely balanced overview of Washington's life, covering all the major phases of Washington's life, and interspersed with an appropriate amount of personal detail.  As much as possible, Ellis quotes Washington's own words, but in a way that doesn't overwhelm the narrative.  Washington continues to be a remarkably impressive person, the one indispensable man of the Revolution and early Republic.  Washington's self-possession and rectitude, his combination of idealism with respect to goals and clear-eyed pragmatism with respect to means, his considerable intelligence and remarkable political judgement, were crucial to generating the world in which we live.  While Washington's reticence (even in his diaries, and his potentially revealing correspondence with his wife was destroyed at her death) is an obstacle to understanding his psyche, Ellis gives a very good idea of the world and ideas that formed Washington, as well as describing his remarkable achievements.	2005-09-02
85818:US	50676891	R1QMCXMZCKUV5N	0312861184	662098422	Finity	Books	1	0	0	N	N	Limp	This is an amibitious attempt at a parallel worlds story.  In the narrator's worldline, the Germans won WWII though other clues reveal earlier discrepancies between this worldline and ours.  The plot features a breakdown of worldlines with individuals jumping from one to another.  This idea is not new, indeed its the central feature of one of the oldest and still one of the best works on parallel universes, Murray Leinster's Sideways in Time.  In this book, the engine of worldline jumping turns out to be quantum computing, an idea used previously by Robert Sawyer.  Beyond the lack of originality, Finity does not have well fleshed out alternative worldlines, particularly good character development, or a compelling plot.	2005-08-29
93989:US	50676891	R39LL53PSVZW52	0618134301	450445688	Henry Adams and the Making of America	Books	4	44	47	N	N	Really Fun	This is a very enjoyable book by the intellectual polymath Garry Wills.  In this book, Wills is concerned primarily with boosting interest in Henry Adams' great history of the USA during the Jefferson and Madison administrations.  As Wills points out, Adams is recognized as a major figure in American literature, but mainly for his famous autobiographical work, The Education of Henry Adams.  Wills praises Adams' histories as high points of historical scholarship and also as considerable literary achievements.  Wills is correct.  Along with the work of his fellow Bostonian, Francis Parkman, Adams' histories are the peak of American historical writing in the 19th century and by any measure, superbly written.  Wills book is divided into 2 parts.  The first part is a thematic review of Adams' career up until he began writing his major historical works.  Wills shows how Adams' life experiences prepared him particularly well for producing the histories.  His experience in politics growing up in the home of a prominent political figure was a superb introdution to American party politics.  Service as his father's personal secretary when the latter was the American Minister to Great Britain during the Civil War introduced him to diplomacy at a high level.  His interactions with an older generation of Boston antiquarians and historians provided a solid grounding in archival research and analysis, and his relatively broad education, including a stint in Germany, encouraged the relatively novel, increasingly empirical approach to political and diplomatic history that became the professional norm.  Wills then proceeds to a book by book gloss and analysis of Adams' histories, explicating and criticizing Adams' analysis and conclusions.<br /><br />Overall, this is a very enjoyable read and will certainly encourage readership of Adams' great works.  Wills is enthusiastic about Adams but hardly uncritical.  He is careful to show Adams principal shortcomings, particularly his racism.  The book is written with Wills' characteristic erudite but graceful style.<br /><br />I see some defects.  While Wills is correct that Adams has been neglected, I think he exaggerates this a bit.  Adams work is still the basic narrative for the diplomatic, military, naval, and much of the political history of this period.  His basic insight, that Jefferson and Madison succeeded by adopting Federalist policies, is generally accepted.  Nor is it entirely fair to say that the literary qualites of Adams work are not recognized.  The closest we have to an official canon of American letters is the Library of America series.  Adams histories of the Jefferson and Madison administrations have been published in their entirety in the Library of America.  I would have liked to see some more historiographic discussion of Adams' place in the development of American historical writing.  I think also that Wills is not correct in some of his minor conclusions.  He takes pains to defend Adams against the charge that the histories were an effort to even the score against political opponents of his famous great-grandfather and grandfather.  This is appropriate but it should be pointed out that the major figure whom Henry Adams really disparages is not Jefferson but Hamilton.  John Adams undoubtedly resented Jefferson at various times in this life, but he really hated Hamilton.  Similarly, Wills points out Adams' implicit endorsement of policies that built up the American nation during the Jefferson/Madison period.  A capsule summary of these policies would be very similar, if not identical, to the political platform of the American Whig party of which John Quincy Adams was a prominent member.  Wills takes efforts also to emphasize Adams' dislike of Boston but its worth recalling that Adams is a good representative of the remarkable stream of impressive American intellectuals - the James brothers, Oliver Wendell Holmes, Peirce, Parkman,etc., - who emerged from the intellectual orbit ofBoston.  Adams may have left Boston but Boston never left him.n.  Adams may have left Boston but Boston never left him.	2005-08-24
99745:US	50676891	R18SCADYK66P31	0674016939	591807616	Racing the Enemy: Stalin, Truman, and the Surrender of Japan	Books	4	95	104	N	N	Very Good and Somewhat Controversial	This is a well written and documented attempt to produce a comprehensive account of Japan's decision to seek peace at the end of WWII.  This includes the controversial topic of the importance of American use of nuclear weapons.  Since at least one prior reviewer has used the \\"R\\" (revisionism) word, let me begin with with some brief historiographic background.  Revisionism, unfortunately, is one of those words that has lost specific meaning and become a term of abuse.  Any substantial work of historical scholarship presenting new information or a substantial new interpretation, like this one, is revisionist by definition and the mere fact that the author has a new point of view is not an excuse to fling abuse.  In the debate over the use of nuclear weapons against Japan, revisionism has a concrete, specific connontation.  It is used usually to refer to the work of historians like Gar Alperovits and others who argue that the use of nuclear weapons was unecesary, that the Truman administration knew this, and that bombing Hiroshima and Nagasaki was an effort to intimidate the Soviet Union.  In this interpretation, the use of nuclear weapons against Japan was the opening salvo of the Cold War, not the conclusion of WWII.  Hasegawa is definitely not in this camp and politely, but firmly, consigns the revisionist consigns the revisionist camp to the trash can.  The Truman administration employed nuclear weapons with the primary purpose of bringing the war to an end as fast as possible.<br /><br />The strengths of this book are Hasegawa's description and analysis of the role of the Soviet Union and his attention to the role played by figures, both in Tokyo and Washington, usually regarded as secondary figures.  Hasegawa's interpretation is based in part of novel archival research.  An important point of departure from what might be called the triumphalist American version that implicitly treats the American decisions as decisive and the Japanese role as essentially reactive.  Hasegawa takes pains to emphasize the autonomy of Japanese decision makers.  This is not novel.  Richard Frank, in his excellent book Downfall, which covers much of the same ground, makes the same point and also emphasizes the autonomy of the Japanese leadership.  Hasegawa goes farther than Frank with his extensive description of Soviet diplomacy and the impact of the Soviet decision to enter the war on the Japanese decision to capitulate.  Hasegawa makes a strong case that both the Soviet entry and the American use of nuclear weapons were crucial factors in deliberations of the Japanese leadership to end the war.  I found this aspect of the book convincing and I think the likely conclusion is that use of nuclear weapons with necessary but probably not sufficient to coerce the Japanese leadership to surrender.  In the most controversial aspect of the book, Hasegawa argues that Soviet entry may well have been necessary and sufficient, and that use of nuclear weapons was not needed.  This is a major point of difference with Frank, who sees use of nuclear weapons as decisive though he also discusses the importance of the Soviet entry.  Hasegawa and Frank's disagreement centers on interpretation of a relatively small number of documents and it is impossible to be sure which is correct, though I find Frank's analysis more convincing. Hasegawa has interesting treatment of the Truman administration, which he presents has more uncertain and divided than usually thought.  There is a lot of useful information in these sections of the book.  Truman, who had been largely excluded from foreign policy during Roosevelt's life, is presented as periodically indecisive.<br /><br />An important theme of Hasegawa's interpretation is that the American were willing and did use to bomb to avoid Soviet participation in the occupation of Japan.  This is presented reasonably well, but I don't think that Hasegawa does as well as Frank in presenting the secondary reasons why the Truman administration wanted to end the war as quickly as possible.  Certainly, they wanted to end the war without an invasion of the home islands.  But, they also didn't want to take over a Japan in a state of chaos or given the Soviet behavior in Poland, share occupation with the Soviets.  American policy objectives were just not to win the war but to sustain a lasting peace.  Occupying a Japan with a functioning cooperative government and without a divided occupation were important goals.  Nor, given the clearly duplicitious and aggressive behavior of the Soviets, was it irrational to use the bomb rather than wait to see what would happen after Soviet entry into the war.  The Truman administration wanted to conclude the war with a minimum of casulties, to ease the occupation, to eliminate Japanese militarism and imperialism, to be able to democratize Japan, to make Japan a permanent US ally, and to ensure that Japan became an important member of the world economy.  These objectives might have been accomplished with different decisions but its hard to argue with the remarkable results obtained by Truman and his advisors.ation wanted to end the war as quickly as possible.  Certainly, they wanted to end the war without an invasion of the home islands.  But, they also didn't want to take over a Japan in a state of chaos or given the Soviet behavior in Poland, share occupation with the Soviets.  American policy objectives were just not to win the war but to sustain a lasting peace.  Occupying a Japan with a functioning cooperative government and without a divided occupation were important goals.  Nor, given the clearly duplicitious and aggressive behavior of the Soviets, was it irrational to use the bomb rather than wait to see what would happen after Soviet entry into the war.  The Truman administration wanted to conclude the war with a minimum of casulties, to ease the occupation, to eliminate Japanese militarism and imperialism, to be able to democratize Japan, to make Japan a permanent US ally, and to ensure that Japan became an important member of the world economy.  These objectives might have been accomplished with different decisions but its hard to argue with the remarkable results obtained by Truman and his advisors.	2005-08-21
105251:US	50676891	R2BF7TDMD6B2IG	0393058948	88365408	100 Great Poems of the Twentieth Century	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Fine Anthology	As Strand states in this introduction, this book presents a 100 great poems of the 20th century, not the 100 great poems of the 20th century.  The selection naturally reflects Strand's personal but excellent taste. He has caste a wide net, including poets from several European countries, Latin America, Turkey, and Israel, as well as a generous selection of American poets.  Some very famous poems are presented but also some less known but worthy poems by famous poets.  Strand has also tried to balance the nature of the poems, including both humourous and serious works, hence the inclusion of a poem by Ogden Nash and a relatively lighthearted poem by the Spanish poet Alberti.  Some readers may be disappointed by the exclusion of some of their favorite poems.  I, for example, would have chosen different poems by William Carlos Williams, Yeats, and Wallace Stevens, but Strand has certainly chosen well.  Perhaps because Strand is himself an accomplished poet, I think some poems have been selected on the basis of what might be called technical merit, demonstrations of how to achieve a variety of effects via poetic efforts.<br /><br />The best part of this anthology, like all good anthologies, is encountering important but unfamiliar works.  This anthology features a number of powerful works probably unknown to most of the reading public in this country.  Reading Thom Gunn's Lament or the Turkish poet Nazim Hikmet's Things I Didn't Know I Loved is worth the price of the book.	2005-08-18
113574:US	50676891	RGRJJOIWZ803T	0316011770	454028739	The Historian	Books	3	5	7	N	N	A  Bit Above Average	This book is a publishing phenomenon, but not necessarily in a good way.  Its on the NYT Bestseller List and was the beneficiary of a major PR campaign at the time of publication, something quite unusual for a debut novel.  It is not, however, a particularly good book.  The author deserves quite a bit of credit for ambition.  The plot is complicated, features several important characters, and cuts across no less than 3 time periods.  The basic device of dramatizing historical scholarship, the discovery and interpretation of old documents, is clever.  The quality of writing and plotting is competent as opposed to good, and characterization is relatively weak.  For a first novel, The Historian is actually pretty good but falls well short of being a good read.	2005-08-13
128147:US	50676891	R1U9YL7WELFHG1	0691115419	462916595	Science and Polity in France: The Revolutionary and Napoleonic Years	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Outstanding Scholarship	On the eve of the Revolution, France was the world's leader in scientific research and Paris was the scientific capital of the world.  Under the Ancien Regime, a combination of fine educational institutions, largely sponsored by the Catholic Church and almost inadvertantly providing good training in mathematics and other important disciplines, and government support for institutions that supported science led to the broadest and deepest scientific community in Europe.  Gillispie provides a careful and superbly documented chronological account of what happened to French science during the Revolutionary and Napoleonic period.  This is not, strictly speaking, a conventional history of science.  While Gillispie does discuss important scientific developments, his focus is on the institutional history of French science and the role played by the French scientific community is larger affairs.  Given the relative generosity of the French state towards science, and the prominent role of French scientists in the Enlightenment movement that sought to supplant traditional social and political institutions, Gillispie is particularly interested in the relation between government and the scientific community during this turbulent period.<br /><br />Gillispie covers the treatment of French science by the various revolutionary governments and by Napoleon's governments.  The history of major scientific institutions is covered well, as is the treatment of educational policy.  The careers of a number of important French scientists and mathematicians; Laviosier, Condorcet, Monge, Laplace, Berthollet, etc., are followed carefully.  Gillispie pays particular attention to the role of scientists in politics and government.  Several French scientists, including some who had benefited considerably from the policies of the Ancien Regime, played important roles in revolutionary and Napoleonic governments.  Gillispie looks also at the major developments in French science, which he sees as evolving from a descriptive, \\"encyclopedic\\" mode to a more experimental, rigorous, and quantitative \\"positivist\\" mode.  Examples include the development of comparative morphology by the great anatomist Cuvier and other important French biologists, the later emergence of physiology as a experimental science independent of medicine, the increasingly clinically oriented and empirical nature of medical training and practice, and the mathematization of physics.  Despite all the political stress of the Revolutionary and Napoleonic periods, French governments continued their support of science and French predominance in science lasted for decades after 1815.  This book is deep, broad, written well, and has excellent references.<br /><br />A bonus is Gillispie's well considered and insightful comments on key features of the Revolution.from a descriptive, \\"encyclopedic\\" mode to a more experimental, rigorous, and quantitative \\"positivist\\" mode.  Examples include the development of comparative morphology by the great anatomist Cuvier and other important French biologists, the later emergence of physiology as a experimental science independent of medicine, the increasingly clinically oriented and empirical nature of medical training and practice, and the mathematization of physics.  Despite all the political stress of the Revolutionary and Napoleonic periods, French governments continued their support of science and French predominance in science lasted for decades after 1815.  This book is deep, broad, written well, and has excellent references.    <br />A bonus is Gillispie's well considered and insightful comments on key features of the Revolution. <br />	2005-08-05
130493:US	50676891	R3NPC5JLXRZI4Y	B0006W8ZMM	999104383	The winter of the world	Books	4	9	10	N	N	One of Anderson's Better Novels	This is one of Anderson's better novels.  Set on Earth several thousand years in the future during a glacial period, The Winter of the World uses a relatively conventional adventure story to present a clever idea about human evolution.  The clever idea is the development of a new hominid species.  Anderson suggests a mechanism of geographic isolation of a small population followed by intense selection to produce a new species.  This is a straightforward extension of Mayr's allopatric model of speciation, now accepted as the predominant mode of speciation.  Much of the book is devoted to describing the nature of these new hominids.  The behavior of these alternative hominids is that of a romanticized and modernized noble savage.  The plot is clunky; Anderson had some difficulties in melding his adventure story with the revelation that principal characters are a different kind of hominid.  The quality of writing, like much of Anderson's work, is competent rather than good.  There is a substantial element of wish fulfillment in this book.  Anderson was a politically conservative individual with a pronounced libertarian bent.  At the same time, he had strong reservations about the nature of capitalism.  Many of his books present a longing for an 'organic society' based on strong individualism but with society based on strong personal ties and respect for the natural world.  In this book, he achieves his wish by altering human biology.	2005-08-04
134628:US	50676891	R18X0JFX4VXHC9	0300101937	505854939	The Indian Slave Trade: The Rise of the English Empire in the American South, 1670-1717	Books	4	41	43	N	N	Careful Analysis - 3.5 to 4 Rating	The second part of the title, The Rise of the English Empire in the American South, is a more accurate description of what this good book describes.  Gallay presents a detailed description and analysis of the interaction between European colonists, particularly the English in what we now call South Carolina, and the native peoples of the Southeast at the end of the 17th and the early 18th centuries.  Gallay is primarily concerned with 2 issues.  First, how did the native peoples respond to European colonization?  Second, what led to the British gaining the upper hand over the French and Spanish?  According to Gallay, the key feature that addresses both these questions is the Indian slave trade.  While the French and Spanish pursued colonization for essentially strategic reasons with very limited resources, the British Carolina colony originated as a commercial enterprise originally supporting Caribbean sugar plantations.  The British colonists became enmeshed in relatively large scale commerce involving virtually the whole Southeast while the French pursued diplomacy with commercial elements in a more limited area and the Spanish attempted to use a mission system in the Florida region.  Gallay presents the Indian slave trade as the key feature of the English trade system.  The British colonists used European goods to barter for slaves and other products, particularly hides, from native groups.  The slave trade connects the Carolina colony to the larger Atlantic plantation economy and drives development of the colony.  This led to an increase in warfare between Indian communities as warfare became commerce driven.  The British colonists were then able to exploit their commercial leverage and the increase in turmoil to establish a preeminent position in the South.  Gallay is careful to point out that the South was anarchic and conflict ridden prior to European intervention and that slavery was a traditional institution, though expanded greatly with commercial slaving.  While Gallay does not say so, this is essentialy an extension of the model of slaving developed to describe the African end of the great Atlantic slave trade.  In both the case of Africa and Gallay's discussion of the American South, the model points up the key roles of, and the power of the indigenous communities, which were actually more powerful than the European communities.<br /><br />This is a creditable interpretation but the data that Gallay actually presents about Indian slaving is relatively modest.  There is some anecdotal information and he does make an estimate of the number of slaves taken, arguing that more slaves were shipped out of Charles Town (modern Charleston) than came in. Gallay is clearly limited by his documentary material, most of which does not address directly the issue of the Indian slave trade. Most of the book, however, is not directly about the Indian slave trade but a detailed account of 2 related topics.  The first, and best documented, is about the struggles between colonists, the colonial government, and the governing investors in England to regulate the colony, particularly trade with the Indians.  The second is an effort to reconstruct the diplomacy  and warfare between the different European groups and Indian communities in this period.  This is arguably the best part of the book; an effort to describe realistically the independent roles of native communities.  Again, though Gallay does not mention this but pioneering work by Francis Jennings and others have demonstrated the powerful and independent role played by North American native communities, particularly the Iroquois, in this period.<br /><br />Overall, this is a valuable and clearly written book.While Gallay does not say so, this is essentialy an extension of the model of slaving developed to describe the African end of the great Atlantic slave trade.  In both the case of Africa and Gallay's discussion of the American South, the model points up the key roles of, and the power of the indigenous communities, which were actually more powerful than the European communities.   <br />This is a creditable interpretation but the data that Gallay actually presents about Indian slaving is relatively modest.  There is some anecdotal information and he does make an estimate of the number of slaves taken, arguing that more slaves were shipped out of Charles Town (modern Charleston) than came in. Gallay is clearly limited by his documentary material, most of which does not address directly the issue of the Indian slave trade. Most of the book, however, is not directly about the Indian slave trade but a detailed account of 2 related topics.  The first, and best documented, is about the struggles between colonists, the colonial government, and the governing investors in England to regulate the colony, particularly trade with the Indians.  The second is an effort to reconstruct the diplomacy  and warfare between the different European groups and Indian communities in this period.  This is arguably the best part of the book; an effort to describe realistically the independent roles of native communities.  Again, though Gallay does not mention this but pioneering work by Francis Jennings and others have demonstrated the powerful and independent role played by North American native communities, particularly the Iroquois, in this period.  <br />Overall, this is a valuable and clearly written book.	2005-08-02
137634:US	50676891	R15URWDM95Q502	0192803735	937576372	The Tain: Translated from the Irish Epic Tain Bo Cuailnge	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Very Interesting	This is a very readable translation of a major pre-Christian Irish epic.  Conventionally translated as the Cattle Raid of Cooley, The Tain is the story of a raid into the Kingdom of Ulster by the warriors of Connacht led by their King and Queen.  The epic itself is presented with some ancillary tales that introduce several of the major figures in The Tain.  Several aspects are similar to the Iliad and other epics originating in non-literate societies.  There is the prominence of individual warrior-heroes, usually figures with semi-divine attributes.  Most of the action consists of individual combats and the language features repetive poetic figures, a strong emphasis on description of weapons and individual possessions, and generally patriarchal mores.  While the language is interesting, this is certainly not the poetic masterpiece that the Iliad is.  The most interesting aspect is the role of Medb, usually translated as Maeve, the Queen of Connacht.  While the world of the Tain is clearly a strongly patriarchial society, Medb is a powerful monarch, essentially co-equal in authority with her husband and his superior in charisma.  She is independent even in sexual matters.  Well worth reading.	2005-08-01
150318:US	50676891	R36EJE3EXHKEKU	0804708274	253430062	Origins of the Chinese Revolution, 1915-1949	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Insightful	This concise and lucid  book is essentially a series of essays on events and trends the led to the Chinese Revolution of 1949.  It is not a narrative history, though the essays are arranged in a chronologic manner.  Bianco starts with a chapter on the 19th century decay of the Manchu state and covers the events leading to the dissolution of the Qing state.  This is followed by chapters on intellectual developments leading to the dominance of Marxist thought among Chinese intellectuals, the abortive efforts of the Communist Party to follow Marxist orthodoxy in developing a revolutionary state, and following the near destruction of the CCP by the Kuomintang, its flight to the countryside.  Partly because of necessity and partly because of intelligent leadership by the men - Mao, Chu Teh, etc., - who would be become the leaders of Communist China, the CCP adopted a distinctly unmarxist strategy of capitalizing on peasant grievances as the motor of their revolution.  Bianco discusses the failure of the Kuomintang to effect significant reforms, the powerful stimulus of nationalism under the pressure of Japanese imperialism, and the ability of the CCP to meld nationalism with their social program in the countryside.  After the war, the incredible incompetence of the Kuomintang and the skilful leadership of CCP resulted in the creation of Communist China and the destruction of traditional Chinese society.  Bianco does very well in analyzing the role of Marxist ideology and provides a comparative perspective as well.  Though this book was written about 40 years ago, it continues to be valuable.	2005-07-24
151839:US	50676891	R3ECYSQSXY4VOW	0571199976	650805783	Proof: A Play	Books	3	5	12	N	N	Weak Theme and Ending	The plot of this well written and well constructed play is summarized clearly in the Editorial Reviews section above. In terms of action, dialogue, and character development, this play is very good, and with good actors, I don't doubt that Proof provides a worthwhile evening at the theater.  What, however, is the theme or content of this play.  Is it about mathematics?  Is it about creativity?  Is it about some other major issue but using mathematical metaphors in the way that Michael Frayn used quantum physics in Copenhagen?  The answer to all of these questions is no.  The author may have intended to write primarily about conflicts between family obligations and personal creative impulses but this emerges as a secondary theme.  What seems to come to the fore is a relatively conventional search for romantic love and there is nothing particularly novel about this.  The ending, in particular, is disappointingly conventional.	2005-07-23
155925:US	50676891	R17ZWGNVS34I4B	0300075405	181789662	The Grand Strategy of Philip II	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Very Good	This very good book is an examination of Philip II's methods of foreign policy formulation and execution.  As such, this is a detailed look at the governance methods of the most powerful monarch of the early modern period and is illuminating on how states and monarchs functioned during this period.  This detailed examination is possible because of the extensive documentation surviving from much of Philip's reign including a huge amount of his personal correspondence and own state papers.  Parker is a leading expert on Philip and early modern Europe and a good writer.<br /><br />Philip emerges as a man with many admirable features, in some respects, a model King.  Clearly intelligent and well educated, he was remarkably diligent, spending many hours per day engaged in state business and was very conscientious about his responsibilities.  While his work capacity and attention waned in his later years, he was able to sustain a prodigious work load over a period of decades.  If there can be said to be a heroic bureaucrat, it was Philip.  Given the huge extent of the world wide empire he inherited and the wide array of challenges he faced with a relatively primitive supporting bureacracy and poor communications technologies, Philip did surprisingly well.  There were, however, significant limitations, some structural, some a function of Philip's personality.  The enormous diversity of the empire creates a huge variety of problems, and policies useful for on part of the empire could be destructive for other parts of the empire.  The relatively primitive administrative apparatus made these conflicts difficult to reconcile.  This system demanded an active and hard working autocrat at the center and while Philip did well in this role, it was simply not humanly possible for one man to shoulder the burdens he assumed. As Parker makes clear, many of Philip's problems were inherent in the nature of monarchy in early modern Europe, though of greater magnitude because of the scope of the empire.  Philip's personality added additional significant problems.  Philip, like many autocrats, was a micromanager who had difficulty in discriminating when to delegate and when to be personally involved.  This often led to inefficient formulation and execution of policy.  He was also intensely pious.  His dedication to orthodox Catholicism led him to policies that were sometimes counter to the pragmatic interests of the empire.  This is certainly true of his failure to deal successfully with Protestantism in the Netherlands and the Dutch Revolt.  His faith also led him to the conclusion that when things were uncertain, divine providence would somehow provide.  This religous assurance was probably personally comforting but didn't help the Armada overcome key tactical obstacles during the attempted conquest of England.<br /><br />Parker provides some comparative perspective by comparing Philip to other contemporary monarchs, particularly Elizabeth I of England.  He also tries to develop a more general perspective by extracting broad lessons about executive performance.  This effort has mixed success.  His resort to Business school literature about efficient executives is not very informative.  His broad historical comparisons are more fruitful though his attempts to differentiate his analyses from those of Paul Kennedy in The Rise and Fall of Great Powers are not entirely successful.  In a couple of respects, however, I found Parker's analyses surprisingly apposite.  Writing about the use of intelligence information, Parker makes the good point that decision makers under pressure, like Philip in 1587-1588, tend to interpret intelligence in a way that confirms their preconceptions, often willfully distorting potentially contradictory information.  Sound familiar?  Parker has a telling discussion of how Philip used diplomacy (we would now say soft power) in Italy as the most resource effective method of obtaining objectives and quotes one of Philip's administrative officials as pointing out that once you lose your diplomatic credibility, it is difficult and expensive to recover.  Another familiar problem.officials as pointing out that once you lose your diplomatic credibility, it is difficult and expensive to recover.  Another familiar problem.  <br />	2005-07-21
170133:US	50676891	R18CKNN4J9W8K2	B0007FLA7K	797695503	Raiders from the rings	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Above Average Space Opera	I read this book when I was in my mid-teens and recently ran across it in my local public library.  Nourse was a practicing physician who became a professional writer and produced several science fiction novels.  Some of his books had medical themes.  The title of one of his books, The Blade Runner, inspired the title of the well known Ridley Scott/Harrison Ford movie, though the plot is derived from a work by the loony Philip Dick.  Raiders from the Rings is a space opera about a long-running war between humans on Earth and a satellite civilization in the remainder of the solar system.  Decently written and plotted, it has many of the elements common to space operas; threats to human civilization, romance, alien interlopers to the solar system, etc.  Nourse is able, however, to use these standard elements in a relatively creative way and do something novel with the genre.  This book, unlike most of its contemporaries, is still surprisingly readable.  In the last few years, a number of small publishing houses have brought out largely forgotten but still readable science fiction novels.  Perhaps its time to revive some of Nourse's books.	2005-07-11
171020:US	50676891	R2M7XW17RUOF6K	0805066624	585238237	Pol Pot: Anatomy of a Nightmare (John MacRae Books)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Informative but Analytically Flawed	This is not a conventional biography of Pol Pot.  As Short comments in an appendix, it is the history of the Khmer Rouge experiment from the point of the view of the Khmer Rouge leadership.  Given the absence of adequate documentary material, a conventional biography is impossible.  Short has utilized a large number of interviews of the Khmer Rouge leadership and associated figures plus some documentary material and published secondary literature to assemble a group portrait of the Khmer Rouge leadership with Pol Pot as the central figure.  Short presents the early history of the men who became the central figures of the Khmer Rouge, their careers in the turbulent world of Cambodian politics, the process of the rise to power, the triumph of the Khmer Rouge struggle for power, the horrible period of Khmer Rouge dominance, and their fall from power under the pressure of the Vietnamese invasion.<br /><br />Like many, but not all, of the Khmer Rouge leadership, Pol Pot emerged from a relativaly privileged background and benefitted from the French educational system.  Quite a few received additional education in France, where they often fell under the spell of Marx, partly because Marxists were the most prominent voices of anti-colonialism in France.  Short has a nice narrative  of the brutal Cambodian politics from the early 50s through the Khmer Rouge accession of power.  He devotes quite of bit of effort to analyzing the Khmer Rouge ideology, a strange compound of heterodox Marxism and Cambodian nationalism.  Short presents this ideology has having very peculiar origins.  Pol Pot, for example, attended secondary school during the semi-fascist Vichy period and would have been exposed in school to the Petainist emphasis on the need for a dominant national leader, bias against cosmopolitan cities, and the fascist cult of violence.  As a student in France, he was taken with some of the writing of the anarchist philosopher Kropotkin.  Several of the Khmer Rouge leadership had some education in Buddhist temples and Short indicates that the Khmer Rouge ideology had structural elements borrowed from Theravada Buddhism.<br /><br />On his own terms, Short is successful.  He provides a clear and narrative related to Cambodian politics, the background of the Khmer Rouge, and some insight into the nature and sources of their ideology.  In other respects, however, Short's analysis is unsatisfactory.  He has been criticized for his comments that the Khmer Rouge were not trying to commit genocide.  Short is certainly not trying in any way to exculpate the Khmer Rouge or minimize their amazing crimes but his comments in this matter are excessively legalistic.  Perhaps more important questions arise about his efforts to ground the ideology and actions of the Khmer Rouge in specifically Cambodian origins, thus for example, the emphasis on the Buddhist features of Khmer Rouge ideology.  Short has a good series of points.  It is clearly true, that Cambodian politics had a brutal character dating back to early efforts against the French in the 1940s.  The government of Lon Nol, which the Khmer Rouge overthrew, practiced large scale pogroms and ethnic cleansing against ethnic Vietnamese.  Short, however, is not a historian and his lack of broad perspective shows in some of his analysis.  His attribution of some features of Khmer Rouge to Theravada Buddhism may be wrong; some aspects he describes as having probably Buddhist sources are true of almost any successful popular ideology.  Ultimately, his explanation of Khmer Rouge murderousness is unsatisfactory because such events have occurred in a wide variety of socities in the course of the 20th century.  Short's focus on Cambodian causes may blind him to useful comparisons.  There are clear and potentially informative analogies between events in Khmer Rouge Cambodia and the early history of the Soviet Union.  Both the great famines that followed the effort to impose revolution from above on the countryside and the purges of the party are clearly similar features.  In the case of the purges, Short emphasizes the paranoia of the leadership, particularly Pol Pot.  This is fair, but Stalin used the purges as a means of destroying potential competitors and by promoting disorganization, making his personal authority indispensable.  It is likely that Pol Pot the same.<br /><br />This is a useful and informative book but readers have to keep its limited perspective and limited analysis in mind.and the purges of the party are clearly similar features.  In the case of the purges, Short emphasizes the paranoia of the leadership, particularly Pol Pot.  This is fair, but Stalin used the purges as a means of destroying potential competitors and by promoting disorganization, making his personal authority indispensable.  It is likely that Pol Pot the same.   <br />This is a useful and informative book but readers have to keep its limited perspective and limited analysis in mind.	2005-07-11
172337:US	50676891	R3Q1T03B9T12GB	1882968271	822313929	Way Station	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Very  Good	Long out of print, this very good novel is now reissued by a small publisher.  The hero is a Civil War veteran who becomes the stationkeeper for an inter-galactic transport system.  In return, he is granted virtual immortality.  Approximately a century after assuming his responsibilities, an outsider begins to suspect something unusual.  Simultaneously, there are political crises developing on Earth and in the Galactic Federation employing him. This latter aspect of the plot reflects the Cold War anxieties of the early 1960s, particularly the fears of a nuclear exchange between us and the Soviets.  Simak resolves these plot elements by tying them together with a fairly straightforward deus ex machina conclusion.  Simak was a direct, unaffected writer who liked to present characters exhibiting quiet decency.  This book is no exception.  The character of the protagonist is developed well and this book contains a nice portrait of an individual increasingly separated from other humans by the passage of time and the secretive nature of his work.  Decency and accomplishment come with some unavoidable costs.  This book may have had some special resonance for Simak as it is set in the part of southwestern Wisconsin where he grew up.	2005-07-10
179325:US	50676891	R3I8DDZITFB3C4	0299110702	652729871	The Franco Regime, 1936-1975	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Excellent Scholarship	This is a very thorough, carefully referenced, and clearly written narrative and analysis of Franco's tenure as the autocrat of Spain.  Payne begins with a concise introduction to the relevant background of Spanish politics and the origins of the Civil War, providing a nice overview of the major ideological currents and which of these currents is likely to have had the greatest influence on Franco.  Payne's discussion of the origin of the Civil War is probably the most controversial part of the book.  His position, laid out extensively in a prior book is that the actions of the Spanish Leftist and Radical parties were the primary contributors to the demise of the Second Republic.  Payne's points are well taken but other scholars have tended to emphasize the role of the right in destabilizing the Second Republic.  Payne then provides a nice overview of the Civil War, concentrating on the politics of the Nationalist side, the development of Nationalist ideology, and Franco's role as the eventual leader of the Nationalist movement.  The narrative of Franco's participation in and leadership of the Nationalist cause shows the qualities that characterize his whole career as the Dictator of Spain.  Cautious, thorough, tenacious once committed but politically flexible, and a very good judge of subordinates.  The Nationalist triumph in the Civil War derived to a large extent from Franco's military professionalism.  While certainly not an outstanding commander, his competence and the unity command inherent in having a single leader gave the Nationalists a substantial advantage over the Republicans.  Payne divides the subsequent regime into 3 phases.  The initial consolidation of power and semi-fascist phase, a period of authoritarian nationalism with a strong emphasis on Catholic traditionalism, and the final relative reformist phase from about 1960 to Franco's death.  Each of these phases is discussed well with a good balance of narration and analysis of the underlying currents.  Payne does a particularly nice job of tracing the tortuous history of internal regime politics and the impact of external events on the regime.  Franco emerges as an unusually capable politician who was able to balance competing groups within his regime and willing to make key compromises when necessary.  At the end of the 1950s, it became clear that the regime's economic policies were total failures.  Franco had the flexibility to accede to marked changes in policy that played a major role in Spain's subsequent remarkable economic development.  Payne is thorough, dispassionate, and makes judgements free of rightist or leftist cliches.nts.  Payne does a particularly nice job of tracing the tortuous history of internal regime politics and the impact of external events on the regime.  Franco emerges as an unusually capable politician who was able to balance competing groups within his regime and willing to make key compromises when necessary.  At the end of the 1950s, it became clear that the regime's economic policies were total failures.  Franco had the flexibility to accede to marked changes in policy that played a major role in Spain's subsequent remarkable economic development.  Payne is thorough, dispassionate, and makes judgements free of rightist or leftist cliches.	2005-07-05
181005:US	50676891	RP7Y2815FZCG7	1585676616	891852301	The Tears of Autumn	Books	5	20	21	N	Y	Superb Thriller	For its type, this book is almost perfect.  Long out of print, it has now been reissued by a small publisher.  McCarry wrote a number of espionage thrillers utilizing many of the same characters in The Tears of Autumn, but this book and The Secret Lovers are by far the best of McCarry's books.  The ingenious plot is an unusually clever conspiracy theory based on the Kennedy assasination.  The quality of writing and characterization are excellent.  This book is just a bit below the level of LeCarre's best novels and on par with the best of Alan Furst's books.  I hope the same publisher is bringing out The Secret Lovers.	2005-07-04
184359:US	50676891	R3FRNPV1U1P99F	0060574623	502980035	The Hallowed Hunt (Chalion, Book 3)	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Solid; 3.5	This is a good fantasy novel set in the same universe used by the author in 2 prior books.  While this is a independent story, this book is easier to read if you're familiar with the prior books.  Bujold continues her articulation of the underlying religous/magical structure of this universe in an interesting way, adding levels of complexity to the structure in a reasonably systematic manner.  The plot is ingenious.  This book is competently, as opposed to well, written.  As commented by some other reviewers, the depth of characterization is not as good as some of her other books and it is not as witty as some prior work.  Still well above average for this genre.	2005-07-01
186288:US	50676891	RNSI7S86MXSP3	080507791X	885396602	Becoming Justice Blackmun: Harry Blackmun's Supreme Court Journey	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A Very Good Portrait	This well written book is an admiring study of Harry Blackmun's tenure on the Supreme Court.  The author, Linda Greenhouse, is the New York Times reporter assigned to Supreme Court coverage, and is known well for her excellent articles on the Court.  This book has the strengths and weaknesses of high quality journalism.  Greenhouse developed this book from the extensive personal materials deposited by the Blackmun family in the National Archives after Justice Blackmun's death.  Greenhouse's goal is to give a portrait of Blackmun as a working Justice, how his attitudes towards important issues evolved over the course of his tenure on the Supreme Court, to explore the background of some particularly important decisions, especially the Roe v. Wade decision, and to provide some information about the nature of work in the Supreme Court as a whole.  This is not a systematic biography or legal history, nor does this book include close analysis of any of the major issues coming before the court during Justice Blackmun's tenure.  On its own terms, this is an excellent book.  Greenhouse begins with a nice precis of Blackmun's life prior to his appointment to the Court, then covers his initial adjustment to the role of Supreme Court justice.  While some of Blackmun's important positions, his opposition to capital punishment for example, have roots early in his career, the evolution of Blackmun's views under the pressure of having to make important decisions about relatively unfamiliar topics emerges very well.  Greenhouse presents Blackmun as an intelligent, diligent, and decent man often struggling with issues outside his prior personal and professional experience.  His perspective on a number of issues, notably women's rights and capital punishment, changed significantly over the course of his tenure on the Court, often exhibiting a leftward drift as the Court as a whole moved to the right with Reagan era appointees.  Greenhouse has an enlightening discussion of Roe v. Wade, emphasizing that the decision was not particularly controversial within the Court but pointing out that Blackmun's rationale, his emphasis on the importance of physician-patient relations, was attacked from both the right and the left.  Greenhouse is enlightening also on the nature of decision making within the Court, emphasizing the importance of interaction and collegiality among the Justices.  Chief Justice Warren Burger, Blackmun's childhood friend from whom he became estranged during their service on the Supreme Court, comes across as an unsuccessful Chief on the basis of poor leadership of the Court and his inability to separate personal feelings from professional disagreement.  With Chief Justice Rehnquist, on the other hand, he enjoyed a cordial relationship despite many juicidial disagreements.  It would have been nice to have more context, specifically more technical legal context, as background for the discussion of some of Blackmun's opinions, but then this would have been a considerably longer and less personal book.  Blackmun will eventually have a major biography, and given the extensive materials he left behind and the many controversies before the Court during his tenure, this will probably be an enormous book.  In the interim, this warm study is a nice introduction to Blackmun and the internal workings of the Court.emphasizing that the decision was not particularly controversial within the Court but pointing out that Blackmun's rationale, his emphasis on the importance of physician-patient relations, was attacked from both the right and the left.  Greenhouse is enlightening also on the nature of decision making within the Court, emphasizing the importance of interaction and collegiality among the Justices.  Chief Justice Warren Burger, Blackmun's childhood friend from whom he became estranged during their service on the Supreme Court, comes across as an unsuccessful Chief on the basis of poor leadership of the Court and his inability to separate personal feelings from professional disagreement.  With Chief Justice Rehnquist, on the other hand, he enjoyed a cordial relationship despite many juicidial disagreements.  It would have been nice to have more context, specifically more technical legal context, as background for the discussion of some of Blackmun's opinions, but then this would have been a considerably longer and less personal book.  Blackmun will eventually have a major biography, and given the extensive materials he left behind and the many controversies before the Court during his tenure, this will probably be an enormous book.  In the interim, this warm study is a nice introduction to Blackmun and the internal workings of the Court.	2005-06-29
189228:US	50676891	R3JC8ZQM70N2SX	0399152431	287820315	Prince of Fire	Books	2	30	40	N	N	Potboiler with an Unfortunate Subtext	This is the latest installment in an espionage thriller series by Daniel Silva.  In these books, Silva is attempting to do something more than just produce entertaining books, he is attempting to educate a segment of the reading public about recent Jewish history.  Silva's hero is a psychically and literally battle scarred veteran Israeli intelligence officer/assassin working as an art restorer in Italy.  The actions in these books deal with important subjects such as the Holocaust, the protection of Nazi war criminals in post-war Western Europe, and the looting of Jewish assets during WWII. Silva has been using competently written thrillers to make people familiar with these topics, a laudable goal. In this book, Silva takes on the complex and bloody subject of Israeli-Palestinian relations.  As a thriller, this book is moderately successful.  The plot centers around the search for a particularly competent Palestinian terrorist.  The quality of plotting and writing is workmanlike.  This isn't the LeCarre or Furst but its not the worst either.<br /><br />Silva may have intended an evenhanded look at a tragedy but what is presented is what might be called a standard Zionist (and I'm not using this term in any pejorative sense) version of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.  Almost all the Palestinian characters are highly negative - fanatical, duplicitious, violent - while the Israeli characters are presented as fundamentally decent people driven to violent acts by self-defense needs.  There is even a highly implausible subplot involving the protagonist's wife that can be read as an allegory of Israel's largely unsuccessful search for peace with Arab partners.  Given the frequently horrible behavior of Palestinian popular movements and the frequently abysmally immoral and stupid behavior of their leaders, it isn't hard to portray Palestinians in a bad light.  As is usual in Silva's books, he includes some historical information but in this case its incomplete.  While Silva traces the roots of the present problems back to the War of Independence, he doesn't show the full story, which would have to include Zionist pursuit, often very aggressively, of Arab lands prior to WWII. Nor does he include important contemporary elements like the religous Zionist settlers, who are no more interested in co-existence than the Palestinian radicals.  Its unfortunate that Silva presents such a one-sided case, the Israeli cause is more than strong enough to withstand critical but objective scrutiny.  Readers interested in this topic should look at the work of the Israeli historian Benny Morris, particularly his overview, Righteous Victims.  Silva actually cites Morris's work approvingly in an appendix at the end of this book, but I'm not sure he has read Morris carefully.a traces the roots of the present problems back to the War of Independence, he doesn't show the full story, which would have to include Zionist pursuit, often very aggressively, of Arab lands prior to WWII. Nor does he include important contemporary elements like the religous Zionist settlers, who are no more interested in co-existence than the Palestinian radicals.  Its unfortunate that Silva presents such a one-sided case, the Israeli cause is more than strong enough to withstand critical but objective scrutiny.  Readers interested in this topic should look at the work of the Israeli historian Benny Morris, particularly his overview, Righteous Victims.  Silva actually cites Morris's work approvingly in an appendix at the end of this book, but I'm not sure he has read Morris carefully.	2005-06-27
190716:US	50676891	R20W76IM8QNLRK	0140148272	130121057	A Monarchy Transformed: Britain, 1603-1714	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Very Good Overview	This is a solid overview of Stuart/17th century Britain.  The major focus of the book is the complex political history of this period.  This book has several virtues.  It is well written and organized.  The politics of this period include the Civil Wars and are very complex.  Kishlansky does a nice job setting out the narrative and provides measured assessments of the major actors.  The historiography of the Civil War is messy and this is a topic that has been dogged by controversy for decades.  Kishlansky essentially elects to stay out of the fray by sticking primarily to the narrative.  As a basic introduction, this is an excellent job and there is a nice bibliography for further reading.  As commented by a prior reviewer, it would have been good to have in text citations for references, though this is a limitation that may have been imposed by the publisher.  Even though Kishlansky does a good job of fulfilling his objectives of providing the basic narrative and political analysis, it would have been good to have some more social and economic history.  A more important defect is the failure to provide more international context for the events described.  Implicit in the narrative is the recurrent theme of monarchs seeking to expand the power and instruments of central government.  This was a pan-European phenomenon, often entangled with issues of religion.  Ambitious monarchs were pushing against elites, often bulwarked by traditional feudal political institutions.  The struggle of Charles I against Parliament would have been seen by many in the context of the successful Hapsburg assault on the largely Protestant nobility and Estates of Bohemia.  Similarly, the Protestant sense of being part of a broader and threatened movement doesn't come across very well.	2005-06-26
198924:US	50676891	R1KV0AIJZFF8PM	0394511581	502959630	The Conquest of Morocco: The Bizarre History of France's Last Great Colonial Adventure, the Long Struggle to Subdue a Medieval Kingdom by Intrigue and Force of Arms, 1903-1914	Books	3	13	17	N	N	Solid - 3.5	This is essentially a case study of European imperialism at the end of the 19th century and beginning of the 20th century.  The author is an expert on the French Army who has drawn into this topic by his interest in the colonial French Army.  This is not, however, a campaign or traditional military history.  Porch's emphasis is really on the politics of conquest and he does a good job of presenting multiple points of view, including analyses of French metropolitan politics and Moroccan politics.  Porch takes pains to rebut the traditional schematic view of imperial conquest as systematically planned and driven by economic motives.  In the case of Morocco, at least, colonization was not widely popular in France, though there was a substantial colonial lobby.  Complicating the colonial enterprise was the fact that among Frenchmen supporting imperialism in Morocco, there was considerable disagreement about methods.  Just as important were the personal ambitions and motives of French officials and soldiers on the ground in Morocco and Algeria.  Motivations for imperialism in Morocco appear to be less economic than considerations of national prestige, the murky calculations of inter-European diplomacy, and the personalities of major actors like Gen. Lyautey, who became proconsul in Morocco.<br /><br />Porch presents Morocco as a feudal/tribal society stressed by contact with modernizing Europe.  Morocco's disorder was exacerbated by the predatory economic and political policies of the European powers.  The French, in particular, fomented unrest in an effort to justify conquest.  French tactics also inadvertantly tended often to provoke resistance.  Porch shows that the goal of a \\"civilizing\\" mission, held sincerely by some Frenchmen, including Lyautey, was either window dressing or a self-delusion.  Ultimately, the conquest depended on sponsorship of dubious proxies and the naked use of force.	2005-06-19
200640:US	50676891	R39KXZO45UFIB1	0452269296	760201086	Two Trains Running	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Very Good	August Wilson is the greatest American playwright.  Not the greatest living American playwright, but the greatest, period.  His best plays stand comparison with the best work of Eugene O'Neill, Arthur Miller, and Tennessee Williams.  No American playwright has produced such a consistent body of work, and no American playwright has attempted a cycle with the scope and ambition of his series of plays.  Wilson's subject is the Great Migration, the story of the African-Americans who emigrated from the southern states to the cities of the industrial North and their slow construction of satisfactory lives in the difficult and changing world of 20th century America.  Wilson has written 10 plays on this subject, one for each decade of the 20th century, amounting to a fictional history of African-Americans in the urban North.  This is, however, history from below.  Wilson's heroes are garbagemen, short-order cooks, day laborers, self-taught musicians, and street vendors.  One of his great gifts is his ability to use common speech in a way that is consistently interesting, frequently eloquent, and often powerful.  He gives poetic voice to people usually regarded as inarticulate and invests ordinary struggles with real but not exaggerated significance.  The African-Americans of Wilson's plays are a doubly uprooted people.  Uprooted initially by the grievous trauma of slavery that sundered their connection with their native traditions, the emigrants fleeing the Jim Crow south and its brutal racism are uprooted also from their homes, families, and the traditions developed in the aftermath of slavery.<br /><br /> Wilson's overall story is the reconstruction of African-American identity and family life in the cities of the North over the course of the 20th century.  Wilson's plays often feature protagonists whose sense of identity and families have been damaged greatly by the oppressions of racism and the atomizing effects of the industrial economy of the North.  Over the course of the cycle, Wilson shows characters re-establishing a sense of connection with their ancestors, even back to Africa, and gradually developing the family ties to sustain them.  Wilson repeatedly uses supernatural elements in his work, particularly as a device to advance his theme of the importance of developing a sense of historic connection with ancestors, including those originally abducted from Africa.  This could easily be hokey, but his matter of fact use of these elements is very effective.  Another recurring theme is the importance of music, particularly the Blues tradition developed by African-American musicians, which he sees as a vital and creative force in African-American life, often carrying truths across generations.  Some of the most affecting parts of Wilson's work are his demonstrations of the direct and indirect destructive effects of American racism on family life.  Even more powerful are those scenes in which his characters overcome these obstacles to reaffirm family connections.<br /><br /> Not all of Wilson's plays are outstanding, but all are at least very good.  Readers will differ on their favorites.  In my opinion, Joe Turner's Come and Gone, Fences, and Ma Rainey's Black Bottom are outstanding.  The rest vary from excellent (The Piano Lession) to the very good.  Cumulatively, they are a really impressive achievement.  Mention must be made of the fact that Wilson has been aided by outstanding collaborators.  Wilson's plays usually go through a series of versions before the final version emerges.  Wilson has had the benefit of working with unusually talented directors, notably the gifted Lloyd Richards, who was responsible in large measure for recognizing Wilson's talent.  Wilson has benefited also from the existence of a whole generation of remarkably talented African-American actors.  These people made it possible for Wilson to realize his vision. We have all been the beneficiaries of the work of Wilson and his collaborators.he cycle, Wilson shows characters re-establishing a sense of connection with their ancestors, even back to Africa, and gradually developing the family ties to sustain them.  Wilson repeatedly uses supernatural elements in his work, particularly as a device to advance his theme of the importance of developing a sense of historic connection with ancestors, including those originally abducted from Africa.  This could easily be hokey, but his matter of fact use of these elements is very effective.  Another recurring theme is the importance of music, particularly the Blues tradition developed by African-American musicians, which he sees as a vital and creative force in African-American life, often carrying truths across generations.  Some of the most affecting parts of Wilson's work are his demonstrations of the direct and indirect destructive effects of American racism on family life.  Even more powerful are those scenes in which his characters overcome these obstacles to reaffirm family connections.  <br /> Not all of Wilson's plays are outstanding, but all are at least very good.  Readers will differ on their favorites.  In my opinion, Joe Turner's Come and Gone, Fences, and Ma Rainey's Black Bottom are outstanding.  The rest vary from excellent (The Piano Lession) to the very good.  Cumulatively, they are a really impressive achievement.  Mention must be made of the fact that Wilson has been aided by outstanding collaborators.  Wilson's plays usually go through a series of versions before the final version emerges.  Wilson has had the benefit of working with unusually talented directors, notably the gifted Lloyd Richards, who was responsible in large measure for recognizing Wilson's talent.  Wilson has benefited also from the existence of a whole generation of remarkably talented African-American actors.  These people made it possible for Wilson to realize his vision. We have all been the beneficiaries of the work of Wilson and his collaborators.	2005-06-17
200668:US	50676891	R4I5BHU5VY95Y	0452276926	636928676	Seven Guitars	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Excellent	August Wilson is the greatest American playwright.  Not the greatest living American playwright, but the greatest, period.  His best plays stand comparison with the best work of Eugene O'Neill, Arthur Miller, and Tennessee Williams.  No American playwright has produced such a consistent body of work, and no American playwright has attempted a cycle with the scope and ambition of his series of plays.  Wilson's subject is the Great Migration, the story of the African-Americans who emigrated from the southern states to the cities of the industrial North and their slow construction of satisfactory lives in the difficult and changing world of 20th century America.  Wilson has written 10 plays on this subject, one for each decade of the 20th century, amounting to a fictional history of African-Americans in the urban North.  This is, however, history from below.  Wilson's heroes are garbagemen, short-order cooks, day laborers, self-taught musicians, and street vendors.  One of his great gifts is his ability to use common speech in a way that is consistently interesting, frequently eloquent, and often powerful.  He gives poetic voice to people usually regarded as inarticulate and invests ordinary struggles with real but not exaggerated significance.  The African-Americans of Wilson's plays are a doubly uprooted people.  Uprooted initially by the grievous trauma of slavery that sundered their connection with their native traditions, the emigrants fleeing the Jim Crow south and its brutal racism are uprooted also from their homes, families, and the traditions developed in the aftermath of slavery.<br /><br /> Wilson's overall story is the reconstruction of African-American identity and family life in the cities of the North over the course of the 20th century.  Wilson's plays often feature protagonists whose sense of identity and families have been damaged greatly by the oppressions of racism and the atomizing effects of the industrial economy of the North.  Over the course of the cycle, Wilson shows characters re-establishing a sense of connection with their ancestors, even back to Africa, and gradually developing the family ties to sustain them.  Wilson repeatedly uses supernatural elements in his work, particularly as a device to advance his theme of the importance of developing a sense of historic connection with ancestors, including those originally abducted from Africa.  This could easily be hokey, but his matter of fact use of these elements is very effective.  Another recurring theme is the importance of music, particularly the Blues tradition developed by African-American musicians, which he sees as a vital and creative force in African-American life, often carrying truths across generations.  Some of the most affecting parts of Wilson's work are his demonstrations of the direct and indirect destructive effects of American racism on family life.  Even more powerful are those scenes in which his characters overcome these obstacles to reaffirm family connections.<br /><br /> Not all of Wilson's plays are outstanding, but all are at least very good.  Readers will differ on their favorites.  In my opinion, Joe Turner's Come and Gone, Fences, and Ma Rainey's Black Bottom are outstanding.  The rest vary from excellent (The Piano Lession) to the very good.  Cumulatively, they are a really impressive achievement.  Mention must be made of the fact that Wilson has been aided by outstanding collaborators.  Wilson's plays usually go through a series of versions before the final version emerges.  Wilson has had the benefit of working with unusually talented directors, notably the gifted Lloyd Richards, who was responsible in large measure for recognizing Wilson's talent.  Wilson has benefited also from the existence of a whole generation of remarkably talented African-American actors.  These people made it possible for Wilson to realize his vision. We have all been the beneficiaries of the work of Wilson and his collaborators.he cycle, Wilson shows characters re-establishing a sense of connection with their ancestors, even back to Africa, and gradually developing the family ties to sustain them.  Wilson repeatedly uses supernatural elements in his work, particularly as a device to advance his theme of the importance of developing a sense of historic connection with ancestors, including those originally abducted from Africa.  This could easily be hokey, but his matter of fact use of these elements is very effective.  Another recurring theme is the importance of music, particularly the Blues tradition developed by African-American musicians, which he sees as a vital and creative force in African-American life, often carrying truths across generations.  Some of the most affecting parts of Wilson's work are his demonstrations of the direct and indirect destructive effects of American racism on family life.  Even more powerful are those scenes in which his characters overcome these obstacles to reaffirm family connections.  <br /> Not all of Wilson's plays are outstanding, but all are at least very good.  Readers will differ on their favorites.  In my opinion, Joe Turner's Come and Gone, Fences, and Ma Rainey's Black Bottom are outstanding.  The rest vary from excellent (The Piano Lession) to the very good.  Cumulatively, they are a really impressive achievement.  Mention must be made of the fact that Wilson has been aided by outstanding collaborators.  Wilson's plays usually go through a series of versions before the final version emerges.  Wilson has had the benefit of working with unusually talented directors, notably the gifted Lloyd Richards, who was responsible in large measure for recognizing Wilson's talent.  Wilson has benefited also from the existence of a whole generation of remarkably talented African-American actors.  These people made it possible for Wilson to realize his vision. We have all been the beneficiaries of the work of Wilson and his collaborators.	2005-06-17
200900:US	50676891	R1WTAHOKMOLPE0	0452265347	79148744	The Piano Lesson	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Excellent	August Wilson is the greatest American playwright.  Not the greatest living American playwright, but the greatest, period.  His best plays stand comparison with the best work of Eugene O'Neill, Arthur Miller, and Tennessee Williams.  No American playwright has produced such a consistent body of work, and no American playwright has attempted a cycle with the scope and ambition of his series of plays.  Wilson's subject is the Great Migration, the story of the African-Americans who emigrated from the southern states to the cities of the industrial North and their slow construction of satisfactory lives in the difficult and changing world of 20th century America.  Wilson has written 10 plays on this subject, one for each decade of the 20th century, amounting to a fictional history of African-Americans in the urban North.  This is, however, history from below.  Wilson's heroes are garbagemen, short-order cooks, day laborers, self-taught musicians, and street vendors.  One of his great gifts is his ability to use common speech in a way that is consistently interesting, frequently eloquent, and often powerful.  He gives poetic voice to people usually regarded as inarticulate and invests ordinary struggles with real but not exaggerated significance.  The African-Americans of Wilson's plays are a doubly uprooted people.  Uprooted initially by the grievous trauma of slavery that sundered their connection with their native traditions, the emigrants fleeing the Jim Crow south and its brutal racism are uprooted also from their homes, families, and the traditions developed in the aftermath of slavery.<br /><br /> Wilson's overall story is the reconstruction of African-American identity and family life in the cities of the North over the course of the 20th century.  Wilson's plays often feature protagonists whose sense of identity and families have been damaged greatly by the oppressions of racism and the atomizing effects of the industrial economy of the North.  Over the course of the cycle, Wilson shows characters re-establishing a sense of connection with their ancestors, even back to Africa, and gradually developing the family ties to sustain them.  Wilson repeatedly uses supernatural elements in his work, particularly as a device to advance his theme of the importance of developing a sense of historic connection with ancestors, including those originally abducted from Africa.  This could easily be hokey, but his matter of fact use of these elements is very effective.  Another recurring theme is the importance of music, particularly the Blues tradition developed by African-American musicians, which he sees as a vital and creative force in African-American life, often carrying truths across generations.  Some of the most affecting parts of Wilson's work are his demonstrations of the direct and indirect destructive effects of American racism on family life.  Even more powerful are those scenes in which his characters overcome these obstacles to reaffirm family connections.<br /><br /> Not all of Wilson's plays are outstanding, but all are at least very good.  Readers will differ on their favorites.  In my opinion, Joe Turner's Come and Gone, Fences, and Ma Rainey's Black Bottom are outstanding.  The rest vary from excellent (The Piano Lession) to the very good.  Cumulatively, they are a really impressive achievement.  Mention must be made of the fact that Wilson has been aided by outstanding collaborators.  Wilson's plays usually go through a series of versions before the final version emerges.  Wilson has had the benefit of working with unusually talented directors, notably the gifted Lloyd Richards, who was responsible in large measure for recognizing Wilson's talent.  Wilson has benefited also from the existence of a whole generation of remarkably talented African-American actors.  These people made it possible for Wilson to realize his vision. We have all been the beneficiaries of the work of Wilson and his collaborators.he cycle, Wilson shows characters re-establishing a sense of connection with their ancestors, even back to Africa, and gradually developing the family ties to sustain them.  Wilson repeatedly uses supernatural elements in his work, particularly as a device to advance his theme of the importance of developing a sense of historic connection with ancestors, including those originally abducted from Africa.  This could easily be hokey, but his matter of fact use of these elements is very effective.  Another recurring theme is the importance of music, particularly the Blues tradition developed by African-American musicians, which he sees as a vital and creative force in African-American life, often carrying truths across generations.  Some of the most affecting parts of Wilson's work are his demonstrations of the direct and indirect destructive effects of American racism on family life.  Even more powerful are those scenes in which his characters overcome these obstacles to reaffirm family connections.  <br /> Not all of Wilson's plays are outstanding, but all are at least very good.  Readers will differ on their favorites.  In my opinion, Joe Turner's Come and Gone, Fences, and Ma Rainey's Black Bottom are outstanding.  The rest vary from excellent (The Piano Lession) to the very good.  Cumulatively, they are a really impressive achievement.  Mention must be made of the fact that Wilson has been aided by outstanding collaborators.  Wilson's plays usually go through a series of versions before the final version emerges.  Wilson has had the benefit of working with unusually talented directors, notably the gifted Lloyd Richards, who was responsible in large measure for recognizing Wilson's talent.  Wilson has benefited also from the existence of a whole generation of remarkably talented African-American actors.  These people made it possible for Wilson to realize his vision. We have all been the beneficiaries of the work of Wilson and his collaborators.	2005-06-17
200957:US	50676891	R37I4Y6M2QX9T7	0822936666	202360031	Three Plays	Books	5	32	38	N	N	Outstanding	August Wilson is the greatest American playwright.  Not the greatest living American playwright, but the greatest, period.  His best plays stand comparison with the best work of Eugene O'Neill, Arthur Miller, and Tennessee Williams.  No American playwright has produced such a consistent body of work, and no American playwright has attempted a cycle with the scope and ambition of his series of plays.  Wilson's subject is the Great Migration, the story of the African-Americans who emigrated from the southern states to the cities of the industrial North and their slow construction of satisfactory lives in the difficult and changing world of 20th century America.  Wilson has written 10 plays on this subject, one for each decade of the 20th century, amounting to a fictional history of African-Americans in the urban North.  This is, however, history from below.  Wilson's heroes are garbagemen, short-order cooks, day laborers, self-taught musicians, and street vendors.  One of his great gifts is his ability to use common speech in a way that is consistently interesting, frequently eloquent, and often powerful.  He gives poetic voice to people usually regarded as inarticulate and invests ordinary struggles with real but not exaggerated significance.  The African-Americans of Wilson's plays are a doubly uprooted people.  Uprooted initially by the grievous trauma of slavery that sundered their connection with their native traditions, the emigrants fleeing the Jim Crow south and its brutal racism are uprooted also from their homes, families, and the traditions developed in the aftermath of slavery.<br /><br /> Wilson's overall story is the reconstruction of African-American identity and family life in the cities of the North over the course of the 20th century.  Wilson's plays often feature protagonists whose sense of identity and families have been damaged greatly by the oppressions of racism and the atomizing effects of the industrial economy of the North.  Over the course of the cycle, Wilson shows characters re-establishing a sense of connection with their ancestors, even back to Africa, and gradually developing the family ties to sustain them.  Wilson repeatedly uses supernatural elements in his work, particularly as a device to advance his theme of the importance of developing a sense of historic connection with ancestors, including those originally abducted from Africa.  This could easily be hokey, but his matter of fact use of these elements is very effective.  Another recurring theme is the importance of music, particularly the Blues tradition developed by African-American musicians, which he sees as a vital and creative force in African-American life, often carrying truths across generations.  Some of the most affecting parts of Wilson's work are his demonstrations of the direct and indirect destructive effects of American racism on family life.  Even more powerful are those scenes in which his characters overcome these obstacles to reaffirm family connections.<br /><br /> Not all of Wilson's plays are outstanding, but all are at least very good.  Readers will differ on their favorites.  In my opinion, Joe Turner's Come and Gone, Fences, and Ma Rainey's Black Bottom are outstanding.  The rest vary from excellent (The Piano Lession) to the very good.  Cumulatively, they are a really impressive achievement.  Mention must be made of the fact that Wilson has been aided by outstanding collaborators.  Wilson's plays usually go through a series of versions before the final version emerges.  Wilson has had the benefit of working with unusually talented directors, notably the gifted Lloyd Richards, who was responsible in large measure for recognizing Wilson's talent.  Wilson has benefited also from the existence of a whole generation of remarkably talented African-American actors.  These people made it possible for Wilson to realize his vision. We have all been the beneficiaries of the work of Wilson and his collaborators.he cycle, Wilson shows characters re-establishing a sense of connection with their ancestors, even back to Africa, and gradually developing the family ties to sustain them.  Wilson repeatedly uses supernatural elements in his work, particularly as a device to advance his theme of the importance of developing a sense of historic connection with ancestors, including those originally abducted from Africa.  This could easily be hokey, but his matter of fact use of these elements is very effective.  Another recurring theme is the importance of music, particularly the Blues tradition developed by African-American musicians, which he sees as a vital and creative force in African-American life, often carrying truths across generations.  Some of the most affecting parts of Wilson's work are his demonstrations of the direct and indirect destructive effects of American racism on family life.  Even more powerful are those scenes in which his characters overcome these obstacles to reaffirm family connections.  <br /> Not all of Wilson's plays are outstanding, but all are at least very good.  Readers will differ on their favorites.  In my opinion, Joe Turner's Come and Gone, Fences, and Ma Rainey's Black Bottom are outstanding.  The rest vary from excellent (The Piano Lession) to the very good.  Cumulatively, they are a really impressive achievement.  Mention must be made of the fact that Wilson has been aided by outstanding collaborators.  Wilson's plays usually go through a series of versions before the final version emerges.  Wilson has had the benefit of working with unusually talented directors, notably the gifted Lloyd Richards, who was responsible in large measure for recognizing Wilson's talent.  Wilson has benefited also from the existence of a whole generation of remarkably talented African-American actors.  These people made it possible for Wilson to realize his vision. We have all been the beneficiaries of the work of Wilson and his collaborators.	2005-06-17
201184:US	50676891	RKV8EUVC1GJ9P	1585673706	119136577	Jitney	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Very Good	August Wilson is the greatest American playwright.  Not the greatest living American playwright, but the greatest, period.  His best plays stand comparison with the best work of Eugene O'Neill, Arthur Miller, and Tennessee Williams.  No American playwright has produced such a consistent body of work, and no American playwright has attempted a cycle with the scope and ambition of his series of plays.  Wilson's subject is the Great Migration, the story of the African-Americans who emigrated from the southern states to the cities of the industrial North and their slow construction of satisfactory lives in the difficult and changing world of 20th century America.  Wilson has written 10 plays on this subject, one for each decade of the 20th century, amounting to a fictional history of African-Americans in the urban North.  This is, however, history from below.  Wilson's heroes are garbagemen, short-order cooks, day laborers, self-taught musicians, and street vendors.  One of his great gifts is his ability to use common speech in a way that is consistently interesting, frequently eloquent, and often powerful.  He gives poetic voice to people usually regarded as inarticulate and invests ordinary struggles with real but not exaggerated significance.  The African-Americans of Wilson's plays are a doubly uprooted people.  Uprooted initially by the grievous trauma of slavery that sundered their connection with their native traditions, the emigrants fleeing the Jim Crow south and its brutal racism are uprooted also from their homes, families, and the traditions developed in the aftermath of slavery.<br /><br /> Wilson's overall story is the reconstruction of African-American identity and family life in the cities of the North over the course of the 20th century.  Wilson's plays often feature protagonists whose sense of identity and families have been damaged greatly by the oppressions of racism and the atomizing effects of the industrial economy of the North.  Over the course of the cycle, Wilson shows characters re-establishing a sense of connection with their ancestors, even back to Africa, and gradually developing the family ties to sustain them.  Wilson repeatedly uses supernatural elements in his work, particularly as a device to advance his theme of the importance of developing a sense of historic connection with ancestors, including those originally abducted from Africa.  This could easily be hokey, but his matter of fact use of these elements is very effective.  Another recurring theme is the importance of music, particularly the Blues tradition developed by African-American musicians, which he sees as a vital and creative force in African-American life, often carrying truths across generations.  Some of the most affecting parts of Wilson's work are his demonstrations of the direct and indirect destructive effects of American racism on family life.  Even more powerful are those scenes in which his characters overcome these obstacles to reaffirm family connections.<br /><br /> Not all of Wilson's plays are outstanding, but all are at least very good.  Readers will differ on their favorites.  In my opinion, Joe Turner's Come and Gone, Fences, and Ma Rainey's Black Bottom are outstanding.  The rest vary from excellent (The Piano Lession) to the very good.  Cumulatively, they are a really impressive achievement.  Mention must be made of the fact that Wilson has been aided by outstanding collaborators.  Wilson's plays usually go through a series of versions before the final version emerges.  Wilson has had the benefit of working with unusually talented directors, notably the gifted Lloyd Richards, who was responsible in large measure for recognizing Wilson's talent.  Wilson has benefited also from the existence of a whole generation of remarkably talented African-American actors.  These people made it possible for Wilson to realize his vision. We have all been the beneficiaries of the work of Wilson and his collaborators.he cycle, Wilson shows characters re-establishing a sense of connection with their ancestors, even back to Africa, and gradually developing the family ties to sustain them.  Wilson repeatedly uses supernatural elements in his work, particularly as a device to advance his theme of the importance of developing a sense of historic connection with ancestors, including those originally abducted from Africa.  This could easily be hokey, but his matter of fact use of these elements is very effective.  Another recurring theme is the importance of music, particularly the Blues tradition developed by African-American musicians, which he sees as a vital and creative force in African-American life, often carrying truths across generations.  Some of the most affecting parts of Wilson's work are his demonstrations of the direct and indirect destructive effects of American racism on family life.  Even more powerful are those scenes in which his characters overcome these obstacles to reaffirm family connections.  <br /> Not all of Wilson's plays are outstanding, but all are at least very good.  Readers will differ on their favorites.  In my opinion, Joe Turner's Come and Gone, Fences, and Ma Rainey's Black Bottom are outstanding.  The rest vary from excellent (The Piano Lession) to the very good.  Cumulatively, they are a really impressive achievement.  Mention must be made of the fact that Wilson has been aided by outstanding collaborators.  Wilson's plays usually go through a series of versions before the final version emerges.  Wilson has had the benefit of working with unusually talented directors, notably the gifted Lloyd Richards, who was responsible in large measure for recognizing Wilson's talent.  Wilson has benefited also from the existence of a whole generation of remarkably talented African-American actors.  These people made it possible for Wilson to realize his vision. We have all been the beneficiaries of the work of Wilson and his collaborators.	2005-06-17
218723:US	50676891	R1D7A5ENAM4ZON	1570719713	169069034	First Lady: A Novel	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Superior Mystery Novel	These three Michael Malone mysteries, Uncivil Seasons, Time's Witness, and First Lady, are essentially expanded police procedurals written at a fairly high level.  The middle book, Time's Witness, is probably the best and Uncivil Seasons is the weakest, though all are superior mysteries.  As police procedural mysteries, they are all good in terms of story line, suspense, and outcome of the story.  What really distinguishes these books are Malone's efforts to produce highly detailed books with in depth characterization and social analysis.  Set in a mid-sized Southern city modeled on Durham, North Carolina, Malone explores issues of race, politics, and particularly, social class structure in the modern South.  The protagonists of these books, the homicide detective Justin Savile and his boss, Cuddy Mangum, are attractive, well developed characters.  Malone has also a talent for humorous writing that serves him well.  While not as good as really fine novels like the best PD James mysteries, these are still superior to most books in this genre.	2005-06-02
219200:US	50676891	R16NIA428C10EU	0671875280	162559888	Uncivil Seasons	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Superior Mystery Novel	These three Michael Malone mysteries, Uncivil Seasons, Time's Witness, and First Lady, are essentially expanded police procedurals written at a fairly high level.  The middle book, Time's Witness, is probably the best and Uncivil Seasons is the weakest, though all are superior mysteries.  As police procedural mysteries, they are all good in terms of story line, suspense, and outcome of the story.  What really distinguishes these books are Malone's efforts to produce highly detailed books with in depth characterization and social analysis.  Set in a mid-sized Southern city modeled on Durham, North Carolina, Malone explores issues of race, politics, and particularly, social class structure in the modern South.  The protagonists of these books, the homicide detective Justin Savile and his boss, Cuddy Mangum, are attractive, well developed characters.  Malone has also a talent for humorous writing that serves him well.  While not as good as really fine novels like the best PD James mysteries, these are still superior to most books in this genre.	2005-06-02
219374:US	50676891	R5J25XCXQ44TB	1570717540	779151193	Time's Witness	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Superior Mystery Novel	These three Michael Malone mysteries, Uncivil Seasons, Time's Witness, and First Lady, are essentially expanded police procedurals written at a fairly high level.  The middle book, Time's Witness, is probably the best and Uncivil Seasons is the weakest, though all are superior mysteries.  As police procedural mysteries, they are all good in terms of story line, suspense, and outcome of the story.  What really distinguishes these books are Malone's efforts to produce highly detailed books with in depth characterization and social analysis.  Set in a mid-sized Southern city modeled on Durham, North Carolina, Malone explores issues of race, politics, and particularly, social class structure in the modern South.  The protagonists of these books, the homicide detective Justin Savile and his boss, Cuddy Mangum, are attractive, well developed characters.  Malone has also a talent for humorous writing that serves him well.  While not as good as really fine novels like the best PD James mysteries, these are still superior to most books in this genre.	2005-06-02
239630:US	50676891	R1I5T9VIINE9BI	0198731744	456152932	Origins of the French Revolution	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Thougtful, Concise Analysis	This short book is a structural analysis of the outbreak of the French Revolution.  Doyle opens by discussing the relevant historiography and proceeds to explicate the major underlying causes of the Revolution.  He includes some concise narrative of the opening of the Revolution and the major features for its triumph.  This book can be read profitably in conjunction with Doyle's excellent one volume history of the Revolution.	2005-05-15
239953:US	50676891	RBD7QQV6LOLQD	019925298X	185249901	The Oxford History of the French Revolution	Books	4	55	57	N	N	Excellent Introduction	The French Revolution is one of the most important events in modern history, went on for the better part of a decade, involved a large number of significant personages, has complex political, social, economic, and ideological dimensions, has generated a huge literature, and interpretation has been controversial often.  This list gives an idea of the challenges involved in producing a good one volume overview.  Despite these obstacles, William Doyle succeeds with a lucid and enjoyable book that seems not to neglect any important areas and is generally evenhanded in dealing with controversial issues.<br /><br />Doyle presents the Revolution as a highly contingent event precipitated by the fiscal collapse of the French Monarchy, exacerbated by recent history of economic difficulties due to irregular and often poor harvests in France in the decade prior to the Revolution.  Doyle is very good also on the long term trends - the increasing size of the bourgeosie, the rising literacy and importance of public opinion, the Enlightenment influenced disillusion with the sometimes arbitrary nature of traditional government - that set the stage for the Revolution and had a large effect on its outcomes.  Still, Doyle's emphasis is on the basis narrative and he does very well in telling the story of the Revolution without either getting too bogged down in details or sliding over important issues.  I recommend, however, that the first half of this book be read in conjunction with Doyle's concise (about 200 pages in a paperback edition) book on the Origins of the French Revolution.  There is some redundancy in the narrative when reading both books but the Origins book stresses the underlying structural features in a complementary manner.<br /><br />Doyle goes on with a sustained narrative to Napoleon's seizure of power.  Doyle covers very well the achievements and common disastrous mistakes of the Revolutionary period. Some of these mistakes, like the disastrously mistaken policies towards the Catholic Church, were responsible for generating implacable hostility, both within and outside France, to the Revolution.  A consistent theme is that war against internal and external enemies was a powerful radicalizing force, often responsible for many of the serious errors and crimes of the Revolution.  Many sections are excellent; his discussion of revolutionary imperialism, for example, nicely explores the apparent paradox of a liberation movement becoming a ruthless exploiter.  Doyle's description of the oscillations of the Revolution and the corrupt behavior of the last Revolutionary government, the Directory, give a very good sense of why so many people must have welcomed the dictatorship of Napoleon.<br /><br />Doyle concludes with an interpretative chapter on the Revolution.  In common with many recent historians, he sees the Revolution as a social disaster precipitated by good intentions.  Among other causes, he cites the overconfidence of the original revolutionaries that they could remake society on rational grounds.  This is both conventional and contains a lot of truth.  For example, the attack on the Church essentially destroyed France's largest educational institution and its largest source of poor relief, both with severe adverse consequences. Doyle doesn't mention, however, that the Revolution engendered (largely under Napoleon) educational institutions that made French science and mathematics the world leader well into the 19th century.  It is also possible to argue that one of the defects of the initial revolutionaries was not that they were too radical but that in important domains they weren't radical enough.  In finance, the Revolution maintained the traditional French aversion to a strong state central bank like the Bank of England, something that might have mitigated the financial problems of the revolutionary governments.  In the newly founded USA, the first Bank of the United States did play an important role in putting our governments on a firm footing.  In religion, the initial revolutionaries attempted to rationalize and democratize the Church, with disastrous consequences.  But, they wished to maintain a state sponsored Church, another traditional French approach.  What if they had taken the really radical step of disestablishing religion and simply left religous practice alone?<br /><br />In summary, this is an excellent book to begin study of the French Revolution.n a firm footing.  In religion, the initial revolutionaries attempted to rationalize and democratize the Church, with disastrous consequences.  But, they wished to maintain a state sponsored Church, another traditional French approach.  What if they had taken the really radical step of disestablishing religion and simply left religous practice alone?   <br />In summary, this is an excellent book to begin study of the French Revolution.	2005-05-15
248934:US	50676891	R2339JBYESFAUT	0881844969	375407838	Witch Wood	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Surprisingly Good	Buchan is best known today as the author of the espionage thriller, The 39 Steps, though more people have probably seen the Hitchcock movie version than read the book.  Readers expecting something similar to 39 Steps or Buchan's other thrillers will be disappointed by Witch Wood.  This is, however, a better book than the thrillers.  Buchan patterned Witch Wood after Robert Louis Stevenson historical novels like Kidnapped or The Master of Ballantrae, books which take a human issue and the historical setting seriously.  Set in 17th century lowland Scotland, the hero of Witch Wood is a young and idealistic Presbyterian minister.  This book, which has adventure elements, is essentially a story of conflicts of conscience faced by the hero.  Buchan was the son of a Presbyterian minister, had a strong interest in church history, and at one point in his public career, was directly involved in the affairs of the Church of Scotland.  I suspect as well that elements are based on his own boyhood.  While aspects of the plot are a bit contrived and some parts anachronistic, Buchan really does well in making something human and interesting out of the doctrinal politics and theology of Presbyterianism at this time.	2005-05-08
250760:US	50676891	R1NWD4OKKM2ASQ	0815730594	867604474	The Great Transition: American-Soviet Relations and the End of the Cold War	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Dense But Very Worthwhile	This is a detailed and carefully documented history of American-Soviet relations during the Reagan and Bush administrations.  As such, it covers the period of relative confrontation during Reagan's first term, the re-emergence of a form of detente during his second term, and the expansion of detente under Bush 1 into a form of cooperation with the Soviets in ending the Cold War.  Written clearly and organized well, this is a fairly dense read because of the level of detail and documentation.  It is also quite long at 800 pages.  The organization of the book is interesting.  The first 500 pages are a detailed, chronogically ordered account of Soviet-American relations.  The remaining 300 pages are a series of more topically oriented chapters beginning with an summary/analytic chapter on Soviet-American relations during this period.  Chapters on European-American-Soviet diplomacy, Asian-Soviet-American relations, and American-Soviet competition in the 3rd world follow, with a concluding chapter that gives an overview of the Cold War.<br /><br />This is an outstanding work.  The author's background is unusual.  Garthoff was a career diplomat specializing in Soviet and Eastern European affairs who became a scholar after retiring from the Foreign Service.  Garthoff brought long personal experience with diplomacy as well as considerable analytic intelligence to this task and the book reflects a tempered and critical approach to a number of contentious issues.<br /><br />Garthoff's analysis of the Reagan administration is rather critical. While he employs moderate language, he faults the Reagan era policy makers for being unduly alarmist and unecessarily confrontational.  He makes a very good case that Reagan's policies towards the Soviet Union were much less consistent than is commonly thought.  He shows also that the Reagan administration was internally divided on important issues and that this reduced policy coherence.  Reagan himself comes off as well intentioned but frequently out of touch and perhaps even willfully ignorant.  Garthoff's most negative comments are directed, though the quality of his language remains neutral at all times, towards the more conservative ideologues with the Reagan administration, particularly those with positions at the Pentagon.  Garthoff's depiction of the Soviet leadership during Reagan's first term, whose personnel changed considerably as aged leaders died in serial order, is somewhat surprising.  Despite the changes in leadership, Soviet policy makers were in several ways more consistent than the Americans and in a diplomatic context, even somewhat more moderate.  Despite oscillations in American policy, the Soviet leadership continued to seek accomodation in important areas like arms control and had a relatively moderate response to the American increases in defense budgets, which they (and others, for example, many European governments) found threatening.  Policy realities eventually forced the Reagan administration to embark on a defacto course of detente in his second term.<br /><br />Of course, the heart of this book are the parts dealing with the end of the Cold War.  In Garthoff's view, the key actor was Mikhail Gorbachev.  Gorbachev is presented as a transforming figure, determined to change the basic features of Soviet society and international relations.  American policies and American policy makers, like Reagan, are presented as playing an essentially reactive role in the events ending the Cold War.  This is quite controversial in many circles.  Garthoff was actually subjected to vilification by American triumphalists and in particular, by the substantial number of people who see Reagan as the architect of the Cold War victory.  Readers interested in an example of attacks on Garthoff should look up Richard Pipes review of this book in the journal Foreign Affairs which contains some unjustified and nasty personal attacks.  I can say only that Garthoff makes a compelling case for his conclusions, cites a great deal of evidence, including quite a bit of Soviet documents, and I think his analysis makes sense in the context of the entirety of the Cold War.  Some of Garthoff's conclusions may be revised as more documentation emerges, particularly from Soviet archives, but its unlikely that the overall analysis will be shown to be incorrect.  A nice feature of this book is that the publisher has placed all footnotes, and they are extensive, on the same page as the intext citations.  This has become increasingly uncommon in the publishing industry but really enhances readibility.<br /><br />This book also has an interesting contemporary resonance.  There are clear analogies between some Reagan and Bush 1 era policy positions and those of the present Bush administration.  This is not surprising as some of the major actors in the earlier administrations, like Dick Cheney, are also important in the present administration.  The emphasis on military force, unilateral American action, obsessive concern with state-sponsored terrorism, and reluctance to test ideological concerns against reality are common themes of both Reagan 1 and Bush II.  Even the establishment of the Dept. of Defense as a stronghold of strongly ideological right wing views is similar in these 2 eras.  Its a cause for concern when two very different sets of problems evoke a stereotyped policy response.s, cites a great deal of evidence, including quite a bit of Soviet documents, and I think his analysis makes sense in the context of the entirety of the Cold War.  Some of Garthoff's conclusions may be revised as more documentation emerges, particularly from Soviet archives, but its unlikely that the overall analysis will be shown to be incorrect.  A nice feature of this book is that the publisher has placed all footnotes, and they are extensive, on the same page as the intext citations.  This has become increasingly uncommon in the publishing industry but really enhances readibility. <br />This book also has an interesting contemporary resonance.  There are clear analogies between some Reagan and Bush 1 era policy positions and those of the present Bush administration.  This is not surprising as some of the major actors in the earlier administrations, like Dick Cheney, are also important in the present administration.  The emphasis on military force, unilateral American action, obsessive concern with state-sponsored terrorism, and reluctance to test ideological concerns against reality are common themes of both Reagan 1 and Bush II.  Even the establishment of the Dept. of Defense as a stronghold of strongly ideological right wing views is similar in these 2 eras.  Its a cause for concern when two very different sets of problems evoke a stereotyped policy response.	2005-05-06
259340:US	50676891	R3GLFC18BZHFJS	0226738019	715441409	Wilhelm Tell (German Literary Classics in Translation)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Interesting	This was apparently Schiller's most popular work during the 19th century with many, many performances in Germany in the century after his death.  In the form of Rossini's famous opera, it probably reached an even wider audience.  To modern audiences, however, this play has less appeal.  Schiller's celebration of romantic nationalism and ethnic solidarity seems almost cliched.  This is not a criticism of Schiller's writing but a reflection of the extent to which nationalist assumptions have penetrated our culture.  Its difficult to look at this play in the way that 19th century audiences in a Germany still fragmented on the basis of feudal political structures must have seen it.  At the same time, Schiller was able to appeal to Liberal, reformist traditions by stressing the importance of individual freedom and dignity.  The stagecraft of this play is impressive and Schiller includes enough psychological detail to prevent the characters from being stick figures.  The dialogue is not Schiller's best work and some parts come across as bombastic.  Well worth reading but this work will be of most interest to those interested in Schiller, German literature, or 19th century European history.	2005-04-29
261545:US	50676891	R3MXO1WRY1R21X	0316009105	403293497	Witch Hunt: A Novel	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Decent but Derivative	This is a decently written and constructed combination police procedural and thriller.  The basic plot device is the discovery that a skilled solo assassin has infiltrated into Britain, probably with the intention of killing a prominent international leader at a major conference.  The story follows the assassin in parallel with the efforts of security agencies to catch her.  Older readers will recognize the story line from Frederick Forsythe's Day of the Jackal, published about 30 years ago.  If you like Witch Hunt, you should read Forsythe's book, which is signicantly better.  Even better, rent or buy a copy of the superior movie version starring Edward Fox and directed by the talented Fred Zinneman.  A warning, the movie version should not be confused with a more recent and godawful Hollywood remake titled The Jackal, starring the inexcrable Bruce Willis.	2005-04-27
273596:US	50676891	RHRTST32ZG1I5	0486415945	280592902	Mary Stuart (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Masterpiece	A brilliant psychological drama.  Schiller begins with presenting Mary as the epitome of passion and misguided sincerity, with Elizabeth as the epitome of rational calculation and statecraft.  With superb plotting, he stages their confrontation to emphasize their common features and with elements of role reversal.  The confrontation essentially purifies their original characters, heightening the contrast between passion and calculation.  I don't read German but this translation contains a great deal of eloquent language and an appropriately Shakerspearean flavor.	2005-04-18
279434:US	50676891	RUIQ8G203NJG3	014011341X	243604121	The Second World War	Books	1	31	57	N	N	Negligent	The very first thing you read in this book is a mistake.  The Prologue begins with a photo of German POWs at the end of WWI.  The photo caption states that the German Army at the end of WWI was \\"unbroken\\" and implies that Germany capitulated because of a loss of will on the part of its political leadership.  This is doubly misleading.  The German Army was soundly defeated on Western Front in 1918 and then began to disintegrate.  In 1918, Germany was essentially a military dictatorship run by Ludendorff and Hindenberg.  The political leaders who lost will were the German High Command.  Defeat on the battlefield and despair on the part of senior commanders hardly meets the description of an unbroken army.  Keegan is essentially repeating the pernicious \\"stab in the back\\" myth used by the German military and right wing propagandists to undermine the Weimar republic.  Its astonishing to see this published decades later by someone who is supposed to be an expert on such matters.<br /><br />This type of error recurs throughout this book.  My favorite relatively minor error is Keegan moving the Ploesti oilfields, a major strategic resource, from Romania to Hungary.  See prior reader reviews for documentation of a number of factual errors of varying magnitude.  Just as important and in some cases even more important are Keegan's failures to discuss crucial aspects of WWII.  He makes little effort, for example, to discuss the origins of the war.  Indeed, his paragraphs on this topic suggest that he finds it too confusing to discuss.  Leaving aside his shirking of his obligation to discuss this crucial topic, there are excellent overviews of 20s and 30s that are good guides to this admittedly formidable topic.  Instead of an effort to discuss the origins of the war, we get a superficial and somewhat misleading discussion of how industrialization transformed military technology and organization.  Instead of a discussion of the sad history of the Weimar Republic, crucial for understanding the ascent of the Nazis, we get another misleading discussion of the Freikorps phenomenon.  Among other significant omissions are his failure to grapple with the possible strategic significance of the Allied bombing campaign against Germany, a issue analyzed insightfully by Richard Overy in 2 of his excellent books.  Keegan's discussion of the Holocaust in both inadequate and implicitly misleading.  Partly because he doesn't discuss the origins of the war and the role played by Nazi ideology in starting the war he fails to show that in crucial respects the Holocaust was the point of German aggression.  The Nazis went to war not just to overturn the Versailles settlement or even to conquer Eastern Europe, but to impose their bizarre notions of racial conflict on the rest of Europe.  Without this background, its impossible to understand the outbreak and the specific nature of WWII.  Among other things, Nazi racism prevented them from rationally exploiting the resources of the western Soviet Union, a factor in their eventual defeat.  As pointed out by other reviewers, Keegan devotes a disproportionate amount of the book to activities of the Western allies when the Eastern front was really the crucial theatre.<br /><br />To be fair to Keegan, writing a concise 1 volume book like this is very difficult.  The best 1 volume work on WWII is Gerhard Weinberg's book, which is about 1000 pages of text in a fairly small font.  Some of the individual sections of this book are quite good and Keegan has a nice, sometimes actually elegant, writing style.  None of these positive features, however, can overcome his neglect of basic features of WWII and the lack of attention to basic facts.  This is not just error, this is actual negligence.standing the ascent of the Nazis, we get another misleading discussion of the Freikorps phenomenon.  Among other significant omissions are his failure to grapple with the possible strategic significance of the Allied bombing campaign against Germany, a issue analyzed insightfully by Richard Overy in 2 of his excellent books.  Keegan's discussion of the Holocaust in both inadequate and implicitly misleading.  Partly because he doesn't discuss the origins of the war and the role played by Nazi ideology in starting the war he fails to show that in crucial respects the Holocaust was the point of German aggression.  The Nazis went to war not just to overturn the Versailles settlement or even to conquer Eastern Europe, but to impose their bizarre notions of racial conflict on the rest of Europe.  Without this background, its impossible to understand the outbreak and the specific nature of WWII.  Among other things, Nazi racism prevented them from rationally exploiting the resources of the western Soviet Union, a factor in their eventual defeat.  As pointed out by other reviewers, Keegan devotes a disproportionate amount of the book to activities of the Western allies when the Eastern front was really the crucial theatre.   <br />To be fair to Keegan, writing a concise 1 volume book like this is very difficult.  The best 1 volume work on WWII is Gerhard Weinberg's book, which is about 1000 pages of text in a fairly small font.  Some of the individual sections of this book are quite good and Keegan has a nice, sometimes actually elegant, writing style.  None of these positive features, however, can overcome his neglect of basic features of WWII and the lack of attention to basic facts.  This is not just error, this is actual negligence.	2005-04-13
282125:US	50676891	R19VS84RB3XZ8E	0385337116	520405863	The Rule of Four	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Ambitious but Not Entirely Successful	This is a very ambitious attempt to combine a genre thriller with a psychological coming of age novel.  The mystery involves decoding of an obscure Renaissance work that presently isn't understood.  This effort becomes entangled with the longstanding rivalries and obsessions of a small group of scholars, leading to murder.  The psychological elements involve a study of friendship, the relations of fathers and sons, and a recurrent undergraduate theme of choosing one's vocation in life.  The authors have made a strong but not entirely successful attempt to have the different elements mirror each other.  The quality of writing is above average but not particularly original.  This book is better than most mystery/thrillers but the authors' ambitions expose them to more stringent standards of criticism.	2005-04-11
284611:US	50676891	R295HJJMDUSRM2	0582304709	346151650	The Origins of the Second World War in Europe (2nd Edition)	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Lucid Analysis	This concise and very well written book is thoughtful distillation of the enormous literature related to the onset of WWII in Europe.  The simple question, who started WWII, has a simple answer.  It was Adolf Hitler.  The simple answer obscures a whole series of considerably more difficult questions.  How did a marginal figure and 4th-rate ideologue like Hitler come to rule the most powerful state in Europe?  Why wasn't there more initial resistance to Hitler?  What was the role of the Great Depression?  To what extent did the post-WWI settlement lead to WWII?  What was the role of the Soviet Union and Stalin?  Many other questions arise.  Bell deals with many of these issues in a series of well crafted chapters.  The book opens by framing the issues, including a short but worthwhile discussion of historiographic issues, follows by discussing underlying factors such as ideology, economics, the role of the depression, the roles of the military postures adopted by the major actors, and then concludes with a nice narrative of the outbreak of war.  Bell very intelligently extends his narrative beyond 1939 to the 1941 invasion of the Soviet Union, pointing out that it is these later events that allow assessment of the role of key ideological factors in the coming of WWII.  This book is worth reading just for the chapters dealing with the consequences of the Great Depression.  A theme throughout the book is the limited options possessed by the leaders of France and Britain.  Given their internal political situations, some form of appeasement was inevitable, though consistently unpalatable.  I have a couple of minor complaints.  I don't think Bell deals with the uncertain nature of politics in the Weimar Republic.  Hitler's accession to power was not inevitable.  While some form of reactionary German government bent on reversing the settlement of WWI was probably inevitable, it could have been one dominated by more traditional conservatives.  This type of leadership would have been amenable to the type of accomodation and diplomacy attempted by Chamberlain and the French leadership.  It is clear also, in retrospect, that few in Europe really understood the depth of the Nazi racial preoccupations and their bizarre model of history, a tragic though understandable mistake.have been amenable to the type of accomodation and diplomacy attempted by Chamberlain and the French leadership.  It is clear also, in retrospect, that few in Europe really understood the depth of the Nazi racial preoccupations and their bizarre model of history, a tragic though understandable mistake.	2005-04-08
287456:US	50676891	R1UMF4PAVFW14L	0394535731	231859735	The End of Reform: New Deal Liberalism in Recession and War	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Insightful	This book is really fundamental for understanding both the New Deal and the Liberal tradition it engendered.  The book's title evokes two prior famous books; Hofstader's The Age of Reform and Lowi's End of Liberalism.  Brinkley positioned this book as a bridge between Hofstader's description and analysis of the Progressive movement and Lowi's analysis of the disintegration of Liberalism.  Brinkley begins by emphasizing the Progressive heritage of the New Deal.  After the conservative reaction accompanying the First World War and the 20s, the election of Roosevelt and the crisis of the Depression brought Progressive influenced Democrats (some former Progressive Republicans)to power at a time when the American electorate was willing to try more radical and statist measures.  The New Deal, however, was an improvisation and what evolved was a gradual diminution of Progressive skepticism about the institutions of capitalism.  The interest in somehow reforming capitalism in any fundamental way gave way to an essentially meliorist framework with (by European standards at any rate) a modest social welfare system, Keynesian macroeconomic management, some regulation of important markets such as the activities of the SEC, an empahsis on civil rights in the legal and political sense, and a basic acceptance of the importance of consumerism and large corporations.  This book is written unusually well  and documented superbly.  As commented by a prior reviewer, this book is a worthy successor to Hofstader's Age of Reform and that is high praise indeed.	2005-04-06
303916:US	50676891	R149T82135OE1E	023396813X	881730293	Wallenstein	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Writing Problematic	There is no doubt that Wallenstein is a terrific piece of scholarship.  Mann totally assimilated the huge primary literature on Wallenstein and presents a comprehensive narration of his life.  Beyond this, Wallenstein is a detailed portrait not only of its subject but also of political life and war in central Europe before and during the 30 Years War.  The drawback of this book is the writing style.  While Mann may be the victim of poor choices by the translators, Wallenstein is written in a somewhat stilted and self-consciously literary style that reduces readability.  In a book this long and with this much detail, this is a real drawback.  A smaller defect is that this English language version was published without footnotes and bibliography, markedly reducing its usefullness.	2005-03-23
313610:US	50676891	R1FW8TLMZ2Z7FJ	0434842168	659229412	How War Came: Immediate Origins of the Second World War, 1938-39	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Basic Text	This is easily the best narrative history of the onset of WWII.  The emphasis is on a detailed, systematic analysis of the diplomacy and politics of many European nations, including both the major combatants and minor players such as Finland and Turkey.  The product of a prodigious amount of research and careful synthesis of the documentary evidence, How War Came is a basic book for understanding WWII.  This is very much a detailed, blow by blow (or  perhaps telegram by telegram) account of the outbreak of hostilities.  This is not a synthesis or analysis of the underlying events that led to war, but it does explain why war broke out at the time it did and how certain combatant nations came to be committed (France and Britain) and others did not (the Soviet Union).  Watt in particular writes with real sympathy of the difficult choices faced by the leaders of the western democracies.	2005-03-16
318163:US	50676891	R22UZW9FF31X0I	0415120004	800471675	The Politics of Revenge: Fascism and the Military in Twentieth-Century Spain	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Enlightening	This very good book is a series of linked essays examining the history and role of the fascist Falangist movement and the military in Spanish history from the conclusion of the Civil War to the establishment of democracy.  The military and the Falange were two important components of the rightist coalition that won the Civil War.  Preston does not examine the history of the other major components of this coaltion; the Catholic Church and its associated political movements, and the powerful upper and upper middle class economic interests that supported the right wing revolt.  These last two groups eventually became disenchanted with the Franco regime and by the 60s, were on the side of regime transformation.  The military and the Falangist movement, on the other hand, remained intransigent to the very end with substantial dissident elements in the military mounting coup attempts into the 1980s.  Preston covers the nature of the Francoist state as a semi-fascist movement, the use of the military as a primary force for internal social control, the nature of Franco's balancing act among the different components of the regime, and a number of allied features.  There is, for example, a good chapter on Franco's relations with the Axis powers in WWII.  All the chapters are informative and written well, though there is some overlap with Preston's other writings, as well as some redundancy among chapters.  A decent knowledge of the Civil War and the broad outlines of post-Civil War Spanish history are necessary to read this book.	2005-03-12
318165:US	50676891	R3QL1GB2C7PXML	0156027100	927332338	The Company of Strangers	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Decent Thriller	Wilson is a competent writer and this book features some of his best attributes.  He is good at constructing believable characters and his descriptive writing is good as well.  He is, however, attached to excessively busy plots.  In this book, he brings in WWII, nuclear espionage, the Cold War, the struggle against the Portugese fascist state of Salazar, and the fall of the Soviet Union.  The plot is certainly ingenious but strains credulity, even for popular fiction.	2005-03-12
328306:US	50676891	RCD815XUSS2T0	0425184234	814475128	A Small Death in Lisbon	Books	2	6	11	N	N	Decent Thriller	This is essentially two books; an espionage story set largely in Portugal during WWII and a police procedural in contemporary Portugal.  The WWII story sets the stage for the contemporary mystery.  Wilson is a competent writer and each story is handled fairly well.  These two threads are brought together at the end in a needlessly complicated conclusion.  There is a good deal of gratuitous, both in the conventional sense and in the sense that it doesn't really advance the plot, violence and sex.  Books with repeated scenes of rape are usually not very appealing.	2005-03-04
336962:US	50676891	R2QECWOWNZYX8W	0939443155	287314520	The Search for Christian America	Books	4	38	38	N	N	Unusual and Effective Polemic	This very interesting book is aimed at evangelical Christians but can be read profitably by individuals of any faith, including those who lack religous faith.  The 3 authors are all distinguished historians of American religion and also committed evangelical Christians.  The goal of this polemic is to rebut ideas popular among evangelicals that the USA was founded as \\"Christian Nation,\\" that our founding documents are extensions of biblical scripture, and that there has been a recent falling away of the USA from its Christian past.  While this book was written approximately 20 years ago, these ideas continue to be popular. As conservative evangelicals have assumed a larger role in political life, there are increasing attempts to move these ideas out of the conservative evangelical Christian community.  Some of the proponents of these ideas quoted in this book, like Tim LaHaye and Jerry Falwell, will be familiar from their contemporary roles in political life.  Others, like James Dobson, have attained prominence more recently, but espouse doctrines essentially identical to the ones discussed in Search for Christian America.<br /><br />Noll, Hatch, and Marsden base their critique on two planks.  One is simply that the \\"Christian Nation\\" version of American history, particularly the early history of the republic, is wrong.  Reflecting a large volume of outstanding scholarship, including some produced by the authors, Noll, Hatch, and Marsden, emphasize the relatively modest role that explicitly Christian thought had in the founding of the republic.  Indeed, as they point out, some of the most explicitly Christian features of the Revolutionary period, such as Protestant anti-Catholic bigotry, are some of the least attractive features of this period of American life.<br /><br />The second plank of this critique is theological in nature.  The authors produce a cogent set of warnings about indiscriminate entangling of Christianity with nationalism and uncritical patriotism.  They argue well that such entanglements can be detrimental to correct Christian action.  As they stress, this criticism is hardly novel, indeed, some of the argument is based on the writings of notable American Protestant leaders like Roger Williams, Isaac Backus, Jonathan Edwards,and Samuel Hopkins.  Noll, Hatch, and Marsden are not arguing that evangelical Christians should withdraw from public life or that religously motivated concerns are illegitimate in public life.  Quite the opposite, but they stress that such action should be based on truthful understanding of American history and rigorous theological thinking.<br /><br />This short book is written clearly, referenced well, and is backed by the impressive knowledge of the authors.  Its a pity its not read more widely.rgue well that such entanglements can be detrimental to correct Christian action.  As they stress, this criticism is hardly novel, indeed, some of the argument is based on the writings of notable American Protestant leaders like Roger Williams, Isaac Backus, Jonathan Edwards,and Samuel Hopkins.  Noll, Hatch, and Marsden are not arguing that evangelical Christians should withdraw from public life or that religously motivated concerns are illegitimate in public life.  Quite the opposite, but they stress that such action should be based on truthful understanding of American history and rigorous theological thinking. <br />This short book is written clearly, referenced well, and is backed by the impressive knowledge of the authors.  Its a pity its not read more widely.	2005-02-25
342339:US	50676891	R3FN0B71R38LVT	0671036610	320736234	The Burning City	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Joint Review of The Burning City and Burning Tower	This is actually 2.5.  These 2 books are fantasy novels set in a human prehistory in which magic exists.  The twist to this idea is that magic is based on a naturally occurring but non-renewable resource called manna (what else).  In some ways, this is an attempt at an allegory of contemporary dependence on petroleum products. Against the backdrop, Niven and Pournelle set a series of stories about a period when manna is really drying up.  The first book, The Burning City, is a bildungsroman about a young man growing up in a relatively magicless community with an unusual social structure and his later adventures in the greater world.  The second book, Burning Tower, is a quest story in which the heroes, related to the heroes of The Burning City, search for powerful wizards manipulating magic in a malignant way.<br /><br />These are not particularly well written books.  Plots are haphazardly developed, characterization is weak, and good descriptive writing is conspicuous by its absence.  The Burning City, in particular, is marred by some poorly developed allegory.  Neither Niven nor Pournelle are gifted writers though some of their previous work, both individually and in collaboration, is considerably better than either of these books.  Neither of these books come close to matching their best work, The Mote in God's Eye, a very good novel.<br /><br />Given these deficiencies, the books succeed or fail on the authors' ability to weave traditional mythology and prehistory into their premise. Here, they are only modestly successful.  Their use of mythic elements is relatively superficial.  I can recommend these books only to hard core Niven-Pournelle fans, and then only if they purchase these books at a discount.	2005-02-21
342844:US	50676891	R1UO6EGPEENBE0	0743416910	486202881	Burning Tower	Books	2	23	40	N	N	Joint Review of The Burning City and Burning Tower	These 2 books are fantasy novels set in a human prehistory in which magic exists.  The twist to this idea is that magic is based on a naturally occurring but non-renewable resource called manna (what else).  In some ways, this is an attempt at an allegory of contemporary dependence on petroleum products. Against the backdrop, Niven and Pournelle set a series of stories about a period when manna is really drying up.  The first book, The Burning City, is a bildungsroman about a young man growing up in a relatively magicless community with an unusual social structure and his later adventures in the greater world.  The second book, Burning Tower, is a quest story in which the heroes, related to the heroes of The Burning City, search for powerful wizards manipulating magic in a malignant way.<br /><br />These are not particularly well written books.  Plots are haphazardly developed, characterization is weak, and good descriptive writing is conspicuous by its absence.  The Burning City, in particular, is marred by some poorly developed allegory.  Neither Niven nor Pournelle are gifted writers though some of their previous work, both individually and in collaboration, is considerably better than either of these books.  Neither of these books come close to matching their best work, The Mote in God's Eye, a very good novel.<br /><br />Given these deficiencies, the books succeed or fail on the authors' ability to weave traditional mythology and prehistory into their premise. Here, they are only modestly successful.  Their use of mythic elements is relatively superficial.  I can recommend these books only to hard core Niven-Pournelle fans, and then only if they purchase these books at a discount.	2005-02-21
343384:US	50676891	R69DNXZZ0S7OD	0192835890	968450359	Myths from Mesopotamia: Creation, the Flood, Gilgamesh, and Others (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Very Interesting	This is a thorough compilation of Akkadian myths.  These are modern translations based on up to date scholarship.  While Dalley does a good job of bringing out the poetry of these myths, these are direct translations of the original texts showing all omissions and as yet untranslated words and phrases.  This approach gives a very good idea of both the character of the myths and also of the difficulties encountered by scholars in reconstructing these texts from the fragmentary available records.  Readers will end numerous echoes of better known myths in these translations.  The introductory  essays, footnotes, and background information are excellent.	2005-02-20
346614:US	50676891	R3RW9C3WON8UB9	0375414339	490892129	Armageddon: The Battle for Germany, 1944-1945	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Very Good	This is a very well written overview of the end of WWII.  This is not a detailed narrative history, which would be impossible in a one volume book except in a very telegraphic form.  Armageddon is a chronologically arranged series of essays on the important features of this gruesome period.  Hasting begins immedidately after the race across France that followed the Normandy campaign and concludes with the fall of Berlin.  He covers the disastrous airborne assault on Arnhem in the Netherlands, the efforts of the Western allies to enter Germany, the experience of combat, the Allied air war, the Soviet campaigns in Poland and Germany, the experience of slave laborers and POWs, and the experiences of German civilians encountering the Soviet and Western Allied armies.  Hastings, an experienced journalist and writer, presents a series of very well written chapters based on solid command of the appropriate sources and supplemented by interviews of many participants.<br /><br />Hastings is not afraid of controversial topics.  He is very critical of the Western Allied military leadership.  In this view, the Soviets and Germans performed considerably better on the ground than the British or Americans.  The consequences, in his view, were prolongation of the war, a greater proportion of Eastern Europe under Soviet control, and a greater death toll among victims of the Reich like slave laborers and concentration camp victims.  Hastings also discusses other controversial topics like the Allied bombing campaign.  Most of his judgements seem well founded and all are argued well.  A significant defect, though probably unavoidable due to limitations on source material, is that Hastings devotes considerably more space to the Western allies than the Soviets.  As he repeatedly points out, the Soviets really deserve to be regarded as the conquerors of the Third Reich.  More information about the Soviet effort would have been valuable. Partly because he wants to introduce the reading public to the lesser known events in Germany, particularly the atrocities inflicted by the Red Army, he emphasizes the suffering of German civilians.  Because he devotes less space to the experiences of victims of the Nazis, in large measure because they are the subject of quite a bit of other work, this introduces a bit of an inadvertant moral bias.to the lesser known events in Germany, particularly the atrocities inflicted by the Red Army, he emphasizes the suffering of German civilians.  Because he devotes less space to the experiences of victims of the Nazis, in large measure because they are the subject of quite a bit of other work, this introduces a bit of an inadvertant moral bias.	2005-02-17
346790:US	50676891	R3W32WKCK86Y60	0060908548	409554193	Inanna, Queen of Heaven and Earth: Her Stories and Hymns from Sumer	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Excellent	This excellent book is the result of a collaboration between Samuel Kramer, a renowned Sumerian specialist, and Diane Wolkstein, a talented writer and folklorist.  Wolkstein took a selection of Sumerian poems about the goddess Inanna, translated by Kramer and others, and rendered them into modern and highly poetic English.  Kramer worked with Wolkstein to ensure fidelity of Wolksteins renderings to the original Sumerian.  Beyond the translations/reinterpretations, Wolkstein also assembled several poems into a sequence based on life history starting from early life to maturity, and in the case of the poem The Descent of Inanna, beyond life to resurrection.  This arrangement may not be strictly historically correct but it gives this sequence real dramatic integrity.  Individually, Wolkstein's versions are vivid.  As commented by other reviewers, some of these poems contain sexually explicit sections, which may not be to everyone's taste, though these sections are also some of the most striking poetry in this selection.<br /><br />Accompanying the texts are an excellent series of short essays.  One is by Kramer and gives a nice overview of Sumerian literature.  Kramer also describes the history of the recovery of these texts.  Wolkstein provides a very good set of interpretative comments on the poems.  This book has a particularly nice set of illustrations drawn from Sumerian art and these selections are described very well in another short section of the book.	2005-02-17
347523:US	50676891	R61UPSHV5E03U	630753172X	703277432	Java:The Jasmine Isle Gamelan Music	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent Reissue	This excellent CD is a reissue of a recording marketed by Nonesuch in the late 60s/early 70s.  It is one of a set of really interesting recordings of Indonesian music.  Like most of the other recordings in this series, it features the wonderful music of the Javanese Gamelan tradition.  For those unfamiliar with this music, this is the other major orchestral tradition outside of Europe.  Based on an orchestra of gongs and metallophones, the complex rhythmic structure of this music is delightful.  Much of this music is associated with puppet theater performances, often very long, or a variety of rituals.  This recording, like others in the series, features selections to give an overview of gamelan music.  The sound quality on this CD is very good, actually better than what I recall from my old (worn out and discarded) recordings many years ago.  At one time, Nonesuch had an outstanding catalog of non-Western music, including this series of Indonesion music, and some excellent recordings of Indian music.  I hope they eventually make the whole catalog available on CD.	2005-02-16
351532:US	50676891	R1G3Y6JWK960F5	0521890543	379806421	The World and the West: The European Challenge and the Overseas Response in the Age of Empire	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Nice Introduction	Curtin is a prominent historian and one of the founding figures of world or comparative history.  His output has largely been relatively focused monographs and essays aimed largely at other scholars.  This book is an apparent attempt to reach a larger reading public.  The theme is the nature of Western domination of the globe over the 2-3 centuries and the reactions of other societies to Western dominance.  This is not a systematic history.  Curtin presents a series of short essays covering the trajectory of Western dominance, its characteristics, its decline, and the response of non-Western societies of Western dominance.  Each essay centers on a single historic episode which is used to illustrate the general themes.  At the same time, the concentration on specific episodes allows Curtin to emphasize the heterogeneous nature of this historic process.  The essays are individually written well and conclude with a short and informative bibliography.  Some cover well known topics, such as the Meiji restoration of Japan.  Others, like his discussion of millenial movements resulting from encounters with the West, feature less familiar episodes.  Curtin avoids dogma and theorizing and writes with a clear, succinct style.  A very good book for those who are looking for a starting point on world history.	2005-02-13
352400:US	50676891	R6CW5LWBN3Q0U	0195067746	847990769	Before European Hegemony: The World System A.D. 1250-1350	Books	4	44	47	N	N	Provocative	This book is approaching the status of a classic.  While a work of history, the author is not a historian but rather a sociologist with an interest in the role of cities.  Perhaps because she was a disciplinary outsider not specializing in a given historical period, as well as being used to comparative analysis, Abu-Lughod adopted a cross-cultural approach.  The starting point for this book was the prevailing belief that a world economy was created by Europeans in the early modern period.  More naive interpretations saw this as a logical development of European capitalism and that capitalism was unique to Europe.  A major point of this book is that a world economic system, spanning all of Eurasia and including Southeast Asia and Eastern Africa existed prior to the early modern period.  This world system was based on pre-existing regional trade networks in the Eastern Mediterrenean, the Indian Ocean, Central Asia, and China.  Some of these linkages, like the famous Silk road across Central Asia and trade across the Indian Ocean, were ancient.<br /><br />Abu-Lughod reconstructs a true world economy stretching from western Europe to China reaching its peak during the 13th and 14th centuries and then declining.  She shows that Europe joined this system relatively late and was a smaller component of these large trade networks.  The peak of this world system is associated with the Mongol conquest of Central Asia and China.  Mongol successes are seen as simultaneously making trade across Central Asia, the northern axis of the world system, and trade through the Indian Ocean and south China, the southern axis, more efficient.  This lead to a Eurasian boom.  As a corollary, Abu-Lughod explores the richly capitalist nature of trade in the Muslim, Indian, and Chinese regions making up the world system.  Some of the institutional innovations attributed to Medieval and Renaissance European merchants may have been borrowed from the Muslim world.<br /><br />If the Mongols were the inadvertant architects of this system, they were also the inadvertant cause of its collapse.  The key event is the Black Death, a Eurasian pandemic which probably originated in central Asia and was spread by Mongol armies and trade made possible by their states.  The resulting depopulations and political instability, including the Ming expulsion of the Mongol from China, crippled the Medieval world system, though it left intact regional trade networks, particularly in Asia that the Europeans would join and come to dominate in the Early Modern  period.<br /><br />A final and more controversial point made by Abu-Lughod is that the success of Europeans in subsequently reconstructing and dominating, in an unprecedented way, the Eurasian trade system was the withdrawal of the Chinese state from interest in trade.  Under the later Ming, the powerful Chinese navy was dissolved and trade through southern China ceased to be an important issue for the Chinese state.  The subsequent power vacuum made European domination possible.  This may not be entirely correct but is argued well.<br /><br />This book has become the point of departure for much subsequent important work in world history.  It is well written and has a nice bibliography.ertant architects of this system, they were also the inadvertant cause of its collapse.  The key event is the Black Death, a Eurasian pandemic which probably originated in central Asia and was spread by Mongol armies and trade made possible by their states.  The resulting depopulations and political instability, including the Ming expulsion of the Mongol from China, crippled the Medieval world system, though it left intact regional trade networks, particularly in Asia that the Europeans would join and come to dominate in the Early Modern  period.   <br />A final and more controversial point made by Abu-Lughod is that the success of Europeans in subsequently reconstructing and dominating, in an unprecedented way, the Eurasian trade system was the withdrawal of the Chinese state from interest in trade.  Under the later Ming, the powerful Chinese navy was dissolved and trade through southern China ceased to be an important issue for the Chinese state.  The subsequent power vacuum made European domination possible.  This may not be entirely correct but is argued well.   <br />This book has become the point of departure for much subsequent important work in world history.  It is well written and has a nice bibliography.	2005-02-12
360199:US	50676891	R2YZ0MS4JV4SHJ	0691088292	33363203	The Founding Fathers and the Place of Religion in America	Books	4	34	37	N	N	Christian Nation, Secular State	This very good book is a concise history of church-state relations in Colonial and Revolutionary America from the early British settlements to the election of 1800.  Lambert describes the nature of early religous establishments, the increasing diversification of American religion, the impact of the Enlightenment and radical Whig ideology, and the emergence of church-state separation after the Revolution.  There will be little new in this book for scholars of this period but this is definitely the best overview I have seen on this very contentious topic.  Aimed at a broad audience, The Founding Fathers is written well, organized well, and is objective.<br /><br />Lambert comes to this subject from an interesting perspective.  His prior major work has been on the history of 18th century evangelism and his is an expert on Colonial religous practice.  He particularly stresses that most of the colonies were founded originally with established churches and that establishment crumbled under the pressures of religous diversification.  By the  mid-18th century, the colonies contained a remarkably diverse set of Protestant sects and even some Catholics.  This religous diversity, some of which arose from immigration and some from separatist movements within established churches, placed great strains on established churches.  The mid-century Great Awakening resulted in further diversification and undermined the authority of the parish system throughout the colonies.  Around the same time, the Enlightenment, with its Deistic views, and radical Whig ideology, with its emphasis on individual liberty, were becoming increasingly influential in the Colonies.  All these factors converged to form a widespread belief that individuals, not the state, should determine religous faith.  Individual churches would have to compete for adherents in a marketplace of ideas without the support of the state.  These ideas eventually culminated in the post-Revolutionary separation of Church and State in the Federal Constitution.  Separationism was supported most strongly by a coalition of relatively secular political leaders, like most of the Founders, and Protestant dissenters whose churches had suffered discrimination under the established churches in several colonies.  This coalition believed correctly that religion was best served by being separated from the state.  This was truly a revolutionary development and the USA was the first polity to enact church-state separation.  Indeed, a number of European states still have established churches and almost all of them preserve a constitutionally sanctioned special relationship with one church.  Lambert concludes by discussing the Presidential election of 1800, which some Federalists and sectarians framed as a referendum on Jefferson's unfitness to be President because of his deist-unitarian beliefs. Lambert argues convincingly that the election of 1800 acted as a referendum of sorts not just on Jefferson but also on church-state separation.  Perhaps the only significant defect of this book is that the conclusion leaves one with the impression that the Church-State separation was settled after the election of 1800.  It was not, and some of the more unattractive subsequent aspects of our history are consequences of imperfect separation.  The Federal separation of Church and State applied originally only to the actions of the Federal government, some states continued with established churches into the 19th century.  More important, state and local political power became vehicles for religous bigotry, notably abuse of public school systems in ways that infringed the rights of minority religions.  One of the reasons we have a large system of Catholic private education is that 19th century Protestants used public schools to harass Catholics.  Lambert demonstrates nicely that separation was engendered by the religous diversity of 18th century America.  We have even more religous diversity today and separation continues to be a guarantee of a vibrant religous culture.<br /><br />The issue of Church-State separation continues to be very contentious.  Since many partisans in this debate appeal to the Revolutionary period to support their points of view, writing in this field can be emotionally charged.  Lambert has clearly written this book in an effort to provide a fair and dispassionate presentation of what actually happened. Reflecting a broad consensus of knowledgeable historians, he has succeeded, though his conclusions will not be palatable for many on the religous right.o be a guarantee of a vibrant religous culture. <br />The issue of Church-State separation continues to be very contentious.  Since many partisans in this debate appeal to the Revolutionary period to support their points of view, writing in this field can be emotionally charged.  Lambert has clearly written this book in an effort to provide a fair and dispassionate presentation of what actually happened. Reflecting a broad consensus of knowledgeable historians, he has succeeded, though his conclusions will not be palatable for many on the religous right.	2005-02-05
367815:US	50676891	RUA8GE7AIXBQY	074326164X	864119270	Gilgamesh: A New English Version	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Excellent	This is a highly readable version of the Babylonian epic Gilgamesh.  Mitchell has translated the original into free-flowing, vivid verse.  Because the poem has come to us in fragments, any translation is also a reconstruction.  While only a scholar in this area can be sure, Mitchell's version seems appropriately close to the original.  The story of Gilgamesh is the eternal story of the human confrontation with the reality of inevitable mortality.  Accompanying the text of the poem is a nice introduction about the poem and its theme.  There are fine Notes in which Mitchell lays out his choices for translation and a short but adequate bibliography.  As a final bonus, this is a very handsomely produced book.  My only complaint is that the notes are not cited in the text of the poem.	2005-01-30
377380:US	50676891	R3SCLYN6RGLZ3N	0691086915	929466562	Inventing the "Great Awakening"	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Thoughtful	This is a very thorough and well written analysis of the first Great Awakening.  Lambert's point of departure is a fairly narrow point of historiography, the existence of the Great Awakening.  Some scholars have argued recently that the Great Awakening was actually only one of a series of local revivals in Colonial America and that the concept of an inter-colonial Great Awakening was imposed retrospectively by 19th century American evangelicals looking for a 'usable' past.  Lambert examines the evidence for a Great Awakening as traditionally conceived, its origins, dynamics, and conclusion.  Lambert reasserts the existence of the Great Awakening as an inter-colonial event.  While it was triggered by and preceded by local revivals in parts of New England and the middle colonies, several features, including the important role of itinerant preachers like the famous George Whitefield, the use of proto-modern publicity, the sense of a general phenomenon, and its trans-Atlantic character, were all novel.  Lambert shows well how the Great Awakening began with groups with well established revival traditions, notably New England Puritans and some Presbyterian groups of Scots origin.  These movements became linked with a broader reform movement in England led by the Oxford Methodists and with revival movements in Scotland.  The trans-Atlantic character of these movements served to reverberate and amplify the significance of events on each side of the Atlantic.  The robust print culture of the greater British world made possible the linkages and innovations characteristic of the Great Awakening.  Lambert shows well how the Great Amakening was a planned, not spontaneous event.  Implicit in his narrative is the sense that the Great Awakening was a crucial factor in the development of an American religous marketplace in which the laity play the key role of discriminating consumers.  Recommend strongly for those interested in colonial America.	2005-01-23
380216:US	50676891	RO7PKW904LNZH	039331619X	210743552	Why the Allies Won	Books	5	7	8	N	N	First Rate Analysis	This really is an excellent analysis of the causes of Allied victory in WWII.  Anyone expecting an introductory history of WWII will be disappointed by this book.  It presupposses a fairly good background knowledge of WWII and even its historiography. It is also a rebuttal to much of the facile triumphalism associated with writing on WWII.  Overy begins by pointing out that WWII could  have been won by the Nazis and their allies.  He then goes on to identify important features of the Allied and German war effort that made the difference.  Some of these are known well, specifically the remarkable industrial productive capacity of the American economy.  Beyond this, Overy follows the lead of Alan Milward and other economic historians who have investigated the differential economic performance of the Allied and German wartime economies as critical determinants of success.  Pushing beyond popular stereotypes, the Germans are shown to have performed poorly in this respect and the Allies, including Britain and the Soviet Union, quite well.  Some of the success of the Allies, and conversely failure of the Germans, can be attributed to the democratic traditions of the Western states, and to the chaotic despotism of Nazi Germany.  Overy also takes pains to emphasize, correctly, that the Eastern Front was the crucial theater of the war and highlights the incredible scale of combat on the Eastern Front.  Americans, perhaps partly as a result of the Cold War, tend to be particularly ignorant of the importance of Soviet efforts in WWII.  Overy also tackles some controversial issues.  His discussion of the importance of the American-British bombing effort over Germany is very interesting.  Against much popular opinion, particularly in Germany (see recent work by the novelist Gunter Grass), he argues that Allied bombing of Germany was crucial.  The bombing campaign diverted crucial elements of German military production, particularly airplane production.  This may have prevented the Germans from maintaining air superiority in the Eastern Front, which could have been decisive.  While much of this bombing campaign was aimed at civilians, Overy makes a very strong case for its importance.  It appears that targeting civilians (as in the NATO campaign against the Serbian dominance of Kosovo) was necessary for victory.  This is an unpalatable but very likely correct assessment.  Overy is less convincing on the idea that Allied moral superiority was crucial.  How was the Soviet state morally superior to the Nazi state?  Few would argue that the Germans didn't fight well.  With incrementally better leadership and economic management, there would might well have been a Nazi dominated Europe stretching from the Atlantic coast to the Urals, with all its attendant horrors.he Germans from maintaining air superiority in the Eastern Front, which could have been decisive.  While much of this bombing campaign was aimed at civilians, Overy makes a very strong case for its importance.  It appears that targeting civilians (as in the NATO campaign against the Serbian dominance of Kosovo) was necessary for victory.  This is an unpalatable but very likely correct assessment.  Overy is less convincing on the idea that Allied moral superiority was crucial.  How was the Soviet state morally superior to the Nazi state?  Few would argue that the Germans didn't fight well.  With incrementally better leadership and economic management, there would might well have been a Nazi dominated Europe stretching from the Atlantic coast to the Urals, with all its attendant horrors.	2005-01-20
386774:US	50676891	R375G6UUXDY0DB	0684195690	251450779	Benjamin Britten: A Biography	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Good Narrative; Weaker Analysis	This is a good but not outstanding biography of the great Benjamin Britten.  Carpenter was well equipped to tackle Britten's life.  An experienced biographer, some of his prior work, like his very good biography of Auden, covers the same period and some of the same aspects of British artistic life as this book.  Carpenter had the cooperation of the Britten estate and a wide variety of Britten's friends and associates.  It is based on a wide variety of documentary material and interviews.  This book is thorough, well written, and organized well.  As a narrative of Britten's personal and professional lives, it is very strong and unlikely to be surpassed.  The book shows very well Britten's remarkable creativity.  A disciplined worker, Britten produced a large volume of outstanding music while also performing and working as a major force in the development of British musical life.  Carpenter also shows, though implicitly, that Britten was a charismatic figure.  He had a remarkable ability to attract the services of other talented individuals, allowing him to realize very ambitious projects such as his operas and the development of the Aldeburgh festival. Carpenter is fair in this treatment of Britten, showing both the attractive and unfortunate aspects of his personality, such as his tendency to callously discard co-workers when he felt he could work more productively with others.<br /><br />Carpenter is less good in dealing with Britten's music.  This is true both for Britten's output in general and specific works.  Nowhere in this book do we get any sense of why Britten chose to focus on vocal music.  Britten did produce important orchestral and chamber work, but his most important output was opera, less conventional music theater like his church parables, choral music, and songs.  Britten's ability to set text to music was truly remarkable.  Did Britten see this as his great strength as a composer or were there other reasons for the focus of his career?  Carpenter tends also to interpret individual works, particularly the operas, in light of very specific aspects of Britten's life, especially his sexuality.  In many cases, such as the operas Peter Grimes and Death in Venice, this makes good sense.  With these interpretations, Carpenter seems also to be following the lead of some other scholars who have studied Britten.  This approach, however, seems not so much wrong as excessively reductive.  For example, Carpenter's discussion of Britten's underappreciated opera Gloriana, composed for the coronation of Elizabeth II, focuses on the character of the Earl of Essex, who Carpenter sees as embodying some of Britten's preoccupations about his life as public artist.  The main figure of the opera, however, is Elizabeth I, and an important theme of the work is the collision of private needs and public responsibilities in the exercise of power.  Surely, this was not lost on the premiere audience, which included the young Elizabeth II, who later became something of a patron of Britten.  Carpenter gives no real sense of the position that Britten occupies in the history of 20th century music, probably because he doesn't have the musicological knowledge necessary to establish this kind of context.  Less understandably, Carpenter misses an opportunity to discuss Britten's important role in the professionalization and expansion of post-war British musical and artistic life.  Carpenter's own narrative shows the somewhat amateurish quality of pre-war British musical life and its remarkable evolution in the post-war period, a process in which Britten was a important creative figure.<br /><br />This book is a useful source for those interested in Britten specifically, 20th century music, opera, and the history of British intellectual life.  There is still an opportunity to write a first rate biography of Britten.ends also to interpret individual works, particularly the operas, in light of very specific aspects of Britten's life, especially his sexuality.  In many cases, such as the operas Peter Grimes and Death in Venice, this makes good sense.  With these interpretations, Carpenter seems also to be following the lead of some other scholars who have studied Britten.  This approach, however, seems not so much wrong as excessively reductive.  For example, Carpenter's discussion of Britten's underappreciated opera Gloriana, composed for the coronation of Elizabeth II, focuses on the character of the Earl of Essex, who Carpenter sees as embodying some of Britten's preoccupations about his life as public artist.  The main figure of the opera, however, is Elizabeth I, and an important theme of the work is the collision of private needs and public responsibilities in the exercise of power.  Surely, this was not lost on the premiere audience, which included the young Elizabeth II, who later became something of a patron of Britten.  Carpenter gives no real sense of the position that Britten occupies in the history of 20th century music, probably because he doesn't have the musicological knowledge necessary to establish this kind of context.  Less understandably, Carpenter misses an opportunity to discuss Britten's important role in the professionalization and expansion of post-war British musical and artistic life.  Carpenter's own narrative shows the somewhat amateurish quality of pre-war British musical life and its remarkable evolution in the post-war period, a process in which Britten was a important creative figure.<br /><br />This book is a useful source for those interested in Britten specifically, 20th century music, opera, and the history of British intellectual life.  There is still an opportunity to write a first rate biography of Britten.	2005-01-15
393603:US	50676891	R1YOOTA6ERXS94	0060531800	993373457	Airborn	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Very  Good Juvenile Novel	This is an imaginative and well constructed juvenile novel.  It is set in a parallel world with somewhat different physics and history.  Much of the action takes place on a giant airship, a standard mode of long distance travel in this world line, in a somewhat Victorian society.  This world is developed well and its features shown unobtrusively through the action of the story.<br /><br />The well constructed plot is a coming of age story with 2 strong protagonists, one male and one female.  Several aspects of the plot mirror the underlying themes of overcoming fear and limitations.  The quality of writing is solid.	2005-01-10
394985:US	50676891	R23YFNCDSDYBPN	0679729941	133815702	Hitler and Stalin: Parallel Lives	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Excellent	This dual biography is excellent.  Bullock is an excellent writer with an uncluttered style and the content of this book reflects Bullock's considered judgements based on a careful reading of a large volume of scholarship.  The balance between the narratives of Hitler's and Stalin's lives, explanations of the relevant contemporary history, and efforts at psychological insight is excellent.  While a very thick book, it is a gripping read.<br /><br />Bullock shows very well the distinct courses of Hitler's and Stalin's lives, a function both of their very different circumstances and personalities.  Hitler rose to power in a partially democratized society, his success based on charismatic leadership, demagogic mass politics, and shrewd exploitation of the political weaknesses of his opponents.  Once in power, he delegated power to trusted subordinates and presided over an anarchic state composed of competing power centers jockeying for his approval.  Stalin, on the other hand, was a consummate bureaucrat and backroom politician. A tireless worker and master  political infighter, he largely constructed the state apparatus that was the instrument of his power.  His serial purges had the effect of elimnating any potential rival seats of power.<br /><br />The major question, of course, is why produce a combined biography instead of 2 separate books?  It is true that Hitler's and Stalin's lives intersected in very important ways but these issues could easily have been handled in separate books.  The advantage of Bullock's approach is that it demonstrates, both implicitly and explicitly, the convergence of the Nazi and Stalinist states.  Both were based on personal rule, crude but powerful ideological constructs that held the loyalty of the leaders and numerous followers, ruthless repression, and both states produced results that garned significant popular support.  Both were constructed by monsters with considerable insight into human nature but no real sympathy for their fellow men.  Both leaders were incredible egoists.  Bullock uses the term narcissism in its clinical sense to describe both Hitler and Stalin, who saw the states they led as extensions of themselves.  Not surprisingly then, in the depth and organization of repression and many other features, the Nazi and Stalinist states had major similarities.  These basic patterns can be seen in many tyrannical states throughout human history and are independent of ideology.n.  Both leaders were incredible egoists.  Bullock uses the term narcissism in its clinical sense to describe both Hitler and Stalin, who saw the states they led as extensions of themselves.  Not surprisingly then, in the depth and organization of repression and many other features, the Nazi and Stalinist states had major similarities.  These basic patterns can be seen in many tyrannical states throughout human history and are independent of ideology.	2005-01-09
401540:US	50676891	RBFJF16M7WNPE	0684872544	967310766	Wolves Eat Dogs	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Superior Thriller	This is probably the best book in this series since Gorky Park.  Wolves Eat Dogs has a superior plot with good quality writing.  The hero, Renko, continues to be an attractive character.  The theme of this book is second chances.	2005-01-04
405995:US	50676891	R1AT1GAXWHEON8	0807844667	553756207	The Establishment Clause: Religion and the First Amendment	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Argued Strongly and Successfully	This is a relatively short book by the noted legal historian and constitutional scholar Leonard Levy.  Somewhat polemical in nature, this book is concerned primarily with rebutting the 'original intention' approach to the establishment clause of the First Amendment.  Written originally in response to Reagan era claims that the establishment clause permitted non-preferential aid to religion, this book maintains its relevance as this claims continue to be made by a variety of conservative politicians and legal theorists.  The non-preferentialist approach states that the establishment clause authorizes federal aid to religion so long as it is not preferential and specifically avoids a single church.  The opposite, separationist approach, advocates the so-called \\"wall\\" between church and state with the federal government prohibited from aiding religion.  Levy systemically examines the nature of religous establishments at the time of the formulation of the constitution, the attitudes of the Framers towards separation, the rationale for seperation, and the basic logic of the Bill of Rights (a subject on which Levy is an established authority).  The result is a devastating critique of non-preferentialism based on original intent.  Levy shows well that religous establishments in several colonies/states were plural in nature, so establishment can't refer just to favoring one religion.  In line with a great deal of other scholarship, he shows that the framers were definitely separationist in orientation.  With other scholars, Levy stresses that separationism was advocated by a coaltion of relatively secular intellectuals like Madison and Jefferson and a group of devout churchmen like the Baptists Isaac Backus and John Leland, all of whom felt that separation was necessary to safeguard religion.  Finally, he scornfully but correctly exposes the basic weakness of arguing that the establishment clause authorizes non-preferential aid by pointing out that the basic thrust of the Bill of Rights is to constrain Federal power, not to enumerate its powers.  Levy's arguments are presented well and are convincing. While non-preferentialism may one day be a viable policy, its advocates will have to search elsewhere for a constitutional justification.<br /><br />The last couple of chapters of the book are devoted to related topics.  Levy has an effective chapter on the inconsistencies of Supreme Court rulings on the establishment clause.  He characterizes well the confusion engendered by these often unclear rulings and makes a very good point that the contradictory rulings and often poorly argued decisions are contributing factors to social discord on this issue.  Part of this chapter, however, is a bit confusing because Levy wanders into a general discussion of originalist interpretation.  This prefigures one of his later books but is not strictly germane to the topic of this book.<br /><br />Levy also has some interesting comments on his attitude towards separation.  While the logic of his arguments leads to strict separationism, he reveals himself to be a modest accomodationist with considerable respect for religion and its important place in American life.ill of Rights is to constrain Federal power, not to enumerate its powers.  Levy's arguments are presented well and are convincing. While non-preferentialism may one day be a viable policy, its advocates will have to search elsewhere for a constitutional justification. <br />The last couple of chapters of the book are devoted to related topics.  Levy has an effective chapter on the inconsistencies of Supreme Court rulings on the establishment clause.  He characterizes well the confusion engendered by these often unclear rulings and makes a very good point that the contradictory rulings and often poorly argued decisions are contributing factors to social discord on this issue.  Part of this chapter, however, is a bit confusing because Levy wanders into a general discussion of originalist interpretation.  This prefigures one of his later books but is not strictly germane to the topic of this book. <br />Levy also has some interesting comments on his attitude towards separation.  While the logic of his arguments leads to strict separationism, he reveals himself to be a modest accomodationist with considerable respect for religion and its important place in American life.	2004-12-31
406075:US	50676891	RUN2EEQOPLL1K	0805074597	518265154	The New York Times Essential Library: Opera: A Critic's Guide to the 100 Most Important Works and the Best Recordings	Books	4	44	46	N	N	Useful and Enjoyable	Written by Anthony Tommasini, the intelligent and articulate chief music critic of the New York Times, this book is aimed at individuals interested in exploring opera and building up a good opera CD library.  Tommasini has picked out 100 important operas, written a short essay briefly describing each opera and commenting on what makes it important, and then recommending one or two good recordings.  Tommasini's list includes the heart of the Italian and German repertoire plus quite a few others.  He has taken this opportunity to do a bit of proselytizing for operas and causes he thinks important.  Thus the inclusion of quite a few English language and American operas, but also some other surprises like the number of Russian operas including several Prokofiev and a couple of Rimsky-Korsakov operas.  As with any matter of taste, this leads to some arguable choices.  As a Britten enthusiast, I can't argue with the inclusion of so many Britten operas but I don't see the inclusion of Rimsky-Korsakov and the exclusion of Janacek's magical Cunning Little Vixen as sensible.  On balance, Tommasini's desire to present opera as a living art form is laudable and his list justifiable.  In terms of his CD recommendations, I can only say that I own several of the CDs he recommends and that I find myself in enthusiastic agreement with his choices.	2004-12-31
408090:US	50676891	R1WUDD70MKFHXX	0312868278	943737340	Dark Cities Underground	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Clever Plot; Competent Writing	This is a solid but unexceptionable fantasy novel.  Like the work of Tim Powers and others, it assumes a mythic substructure to our mundane world.  In this case, the emphasis is on the Egyptian Osiris myth, though other mythic archetypes are involved in the story.  The plot, involving the mythical elements, subway construction, and different aspects of children's literature, is ingenious.  Other aspects of the book, such as character development and prose in general, do not match the promise of the plot.  Worth reading but disappointing in the sense that the potential of the story is never really fulfilled.	2004-12-30
410622:US	50676891	RLPGIAH2S80VF	0631231129	826550690	Deontology	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Fine Anthology	This is a fine anthology on this aspect of moral philosophy.  Part of the excellent Blackwell series, this book contains concise selections of both classic texts and modern articles related to deontology.  There is a good balance of the classic and the modern.  An excellent introduction to the deontological approach to ethics.	2004-12-28
412357:US	50676891	RR2J910K68XLB	0679781218	205281491	Original Meanings: Politics and Ideas in the Making of the Constitution	Books	4	83	89	N	N	Insightful and Careful	Several prior reviewers are correct, this book is not intended for the general reading public.  It was aimed primarily at scholars of American history and probably also at law professors.  To enjoy this book, it is really necessary to know both the basic narrative history and to already have some grasp of 18th century political theory, particularly as it was discussed in British North America.  Familiarity with the works of Bernard Bailyn and Gordon Wood are really necessary to really grasp the issues discussed in this book.  That said, this is a really insightful and well written monograph.  Rakove covers the basic problems that the initiators of the constitution hoped to solve, the debates in the Constitutional Convention, the campaign over ratification, the Bill of Rights controversy, over important issues like the nature of Presidential power, and even the beginnings of the controversies over interpretation in the early Republic.  His emphasis throughout is on the thinking of the Federalists and their opponents.  A number of themes emerge though a basic one can be said to be that of ambiguity.  A product of differing motivations, political and ideological compromise, and a highly politically charged process of ratification, it is hardly surprising that it is hard to assign unambiguous 'intentions' to many aspects of the constitution. Even when contemporary supporting literature is consulted, like The Federalist Papers, it is not an infallible guide because it contains similar ambiguities.  Indeed, without some ambiguity and liberty of interpretation, it is hard to see how the constitution would have succeeded in remaining a guiding document throughout all the changes of hte last 2 centuries.  There is no question that some features of the consitution are unambiguous, but they are not always things to be proud of, such as the unequivocal recognition of the legitimacy of chattel slavery.  Another basic theme is that the real meaning of the constitution emerges from the collision of what is originally thought and written with the actual processes of politics and government.  Rakove's careful analysis and exposition makes it clear that any form of rigid interpretation based on efforts to recover precise understandings of original meanings is likely doomed to failure, and at worst, may be a vehicle for self-deception.<br /><br />I have to respond to some of the prior comments about this book. It is rather unlikely that Rakove or his publisher have minimized the role of religion in the constitutional process.  The best book on the political thinking of this period of American life, Gordon Wood's The Creation of the American Republic, assigns a relatively small role for explicitly religous thought in the political theorizing that drove the constitutional movement.  No one has spent more time than Wood in analyzing the primary literature, including a large volume of sermons.  Second, Rakove's work is not, as one reviewer wrote, an act of interpretive nihilism.  Rakove argues against simple textual analysis as the source of the final answer.  Implicit in Rakove's analysis is the idea that the constitutional experience, including traditions developed over the last 2 centuries, and not just a small number of documents, are legitimate data for interpretation. As Professor Wood wrote recently, it is the institutions and traditions we've created over the past 2 centuries that really make us a viable democracy.m the collision of what is originally thought and written with the actual processes of politics and government.  Rakove's careful analysis and exposition makes it clear that any form of rigid interpretation based on efforts to recover precise understandings of original meanings is likely doomed to failure, and at worst, may be a vehicle for self-deception.   <br />I have to respond to some of the prior comments about this book. It is rather unlikely that Rakove or his publisher have minimized the role of religion in the constitutional process.  The best book on the political thinking of this period of American life, Gordon Wood's The Creation of the American Republic, assigns a relatively small role for explicitly religous thought in the political theorizing that drove the constitutional movement.  No one has spent more time than Wood in analyzing the primary literature, including a large volume of sermons.  Second, Rakove's work is not, as one reviewer wrote, an act of interpretive nihilism.  Rakove argues against simple textual analysis as the source of the final answer.  Implicit in Rakove's analysis is the idea that the constitutional experience, including traditions developed over the last 2 centuries, and not just a small number of documents, are legitimate data for interpretation. As Professor Wood wrote recently, it is the institutions and traditions we've created over the past 2 centuries that really make us a viable democracy.	2004-12-26
412599:US	50676891	R28RSK7M23XIY1	0140137122	708691325	The Dutch Revolt: Revised Edition	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Fine Narrative and Overview	This well written and concise (less than 300 pages) book is a nice introduction to the great revolt of the Netherlands from the rule of the Hapsburg-Spanish Monarchy.  Written by a well known expert on early modern Europe, The Dutch Revolt provides the relevant background detail, essential narrative, and analysis needed to understand the major features of the Dutch rebellion. Parker draws extensively on a largely Dutch and Belgian secondary literature unavailable to English speaking readers.  A notable feature of this book is that Parker does a very nice job of portraying the war from the point of view of both major protagonists, that of the various Dutch leaders and that of the Spanish Court.  Parker shows also the complex international quality of European politics in this period.  Events in the Mediterranean, for example, had a large impact on Spanish policies in the Netherlands.  Parker deals as well, briefly but insightfully, with the relevant social and religous history of the revolt, and with its aftermath, the emergence of the United Provinces (the northern Netherlands) as a great European and world power.	2004-12-26
420065:US	50676891	RSFRXF1U5PJLC	0765307170	414406989	The Green and the Gray	Books	1	2	14	N	N	Limp	West Side Story with aliens instead of working class whites and Puerto Ricans.  The idea of alien refugees living among us covertly comes from Zenna Henderson.  Shallow characters, strained plotting, pedestrian writing, little originality, and not an ounce of wit.	2004-12-17
420327:US	50676891	R14UMW0IIMAN0S	0300103654	903081153	Arguing About War	Books	4	32	34	N	N	Thoughtful	This is a collection of essays and articles focused on the theme of when war is acceptable.  In several ways, this book is a followup to Walzer's well known book, Just and Unjust Wars, which explored the same theme.  As a collection of previously published pieces, this collection lacks the integrity of a monograph but it is better than most such collections because of the strong theme.  It also has the advantage of being quite topical with some essays related to the ongoing war in Iraq.  Walzer is critical and consistent thinker.  He is opposed to pacifism but has clear and well considered standards for when war making is acceptable.  He is generally in favor of well considered interventions to prevent genocide and to abolish odious regimes.  He also treats some interesting topics and related topics such as the limits of the standards he develops and the concrete responsibilities of military personnel.<br /><br />Much of this book is reprinted articles on events like the Bosnian war, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and the war in Iraq.  Walzer does a good job of applying his theoretical constructs in a rigorous and fair way.  He is critical, for example, of the Bush administration's preventive war in Iraq but has no patience with any efforts to justify terrorist activities.  He is quite critical as well of European and Russian, as well as the Clinton administration's, policies towards Iraq.<br /><br />Comparing Walzer's analysis of moral choices in policies towards Iraq with the statements of Bush administration spokesmen and apologists is interesting.  Many of the same arguments appear, only Walzer applies them in a rigorous and consistent manner, often leading to very different conclusions.  Walzer exhibits the moral clarity that the Bush administration would like to believe it possesses.<br /><br />Walzer also makes the very good point that in a truly just war, moral intentions and behavior in the aftermath of a war are just as important as the decision to enter war and the conduct of war.  Neglect of the aftermath is a weakness of traditional just war theory derived from the Catholic tradition.  If you don't do a competent and principled job of occupation and reconstruction, your war is not moral.  In contemporary Iraq, we're witnessing a counter-example of competent and principled occupation that serves as a vivid demonstration of Walzer's argument.conduct of war.  Neglect of the aftermath is a weakness of traditional just war theory derived from the Catholic tradition.  If you don't do a competent and principled job of occupation and reconstruction, your war is not moral.  In contemporary Iraq, we're witnessing a counter-example of competent and principled occupation that serves as a vivid demonstration of Walzer's argument.	2004-12-17
434739:US	50676891	R1L50QSSR036MD	1400042364	523547957	The Roads to Modernity: The British, French, and American Enlightenments	Books	2	26	55	N	N	Misleading	On a narrow basis of acknowledged fact, a great and rude superstructure of fable has been erected.  - Edward Gibbon<br /><br />This is a peculiar and confused book.  Individuals considering reading and/or buying this book should look at Stephen Bronner's  critical and perceptive review from the Washington Post posted above.  Potential readers should look also at Amazon reader-reviewer pnotley's review, also posted on this site.  Both Bronner and pnotley deliver a series of excellent criticisms of The Roads to Modernity.<br /><br />In this book, Himmelfarb presents a typology of the Enlightenment by associating different national groups with different strands of Enlightenment thought.  The British exhibit \\"virtue\\" (actually sympathy, which is something related but different), the French \\"reason\\", and the Americans \\"liberty.\\"  Himmelfarb would have us believe that these different national versions of the Enlightenment have something to do with the subsequent evolution of each nation.  This is likely to be true but probably not in the ways she suggests.  Himmelfarb has exagerrated the differences between national groups of Enlightenment intellectuals and obscured their common features.  In the process, she presents a highly selective and often distorted view of the Enlightenment.<br /><br />Lets start with \\"reason\\", which Himmelfarb identifies with the French, often to their disadvantage.  To Himmelfarb, \\"reason\\" seems to be an effort to impose highly schematic and theoretical constructs on human realities, thus leading to the excesses of the French Revolution.  In fact, \\"reason' was a preoccupation of all Enlightenment intellectuals.  The ideal of reason, at base, was the notion that the unaided human intellect could discover crucial and universal, objective and regular features of the natural and social worlds and apply this knowledge to the advantage of humanity.  This is the great lesson that the Enlightenment drew from Newton.  David Hume believed, with considerable justice, that he was applying a Newtonian method to his studies of epistemology and moral psychology.  James Madison, in the couple of years leading up to the Constitutional Convention, didn't reaffirm traditional institutions or pray for a revelation, he embarked on a systematic study of contemporary political theory (which led him to Hume, among others) and the history of other republics in an effort to develop a stable and novel polity embodying the ideals of the Founders.  Its this kind of reliance on human capacity that sets the Enlightenment apart from individuals like Burke and John Wesley whom Himmelfarb would like to drag into the tent of the Enlightenment.<br /><br />Himmelfarb is particularly unfair towards the French philosophes.  She tends to present them as snobby ideologues uninterested in actually doing anything about the lot of most people and contrasts them with the \\"reformism\\" of the British Enlightenment.  She is particularly disparaging of the great Encyclopedie, which she presents primarily as an ideological document.  In fact, the Encyclopedie was intended as a summary of human knowledge up to that time, covering a huge array of fields and embodying the best practices of the arts, manufacturing, and the sciences.  It was intended as an educational resource, making widely and publically available knowledge that could be used by anyone to improve many aspects of daily life.  This is reformism with a vengeance.  Diderot and D'Alembert spent a substantial fraction of their lives on this project.  None of the British intellectuals discussed admiringly by Himmelfarb accomplished anything like the Encyclopedie.  The example of the Encyclopedie is yet another example of Himmelfarb missing the forest for the trees.  The driving idea of the Dncyclopedie, the idea of widely disseminated useful knowledge, was not just a French preoccupation but a common theme of the Enlightenment.  Benjamin Franklin, scientist, inventor, and philanthropist, exemplifiesan American attachment to the idea of useful knowledge.  The great French chemists Lavoisier and Berthellot, who made fundamental contributions to science and helped improve French industry, are also good examples of this Enlightenment tendency.  Probably the most consequential, though indirect, product of Hume's circle in Edinburgh was James Watt, inventor of the high pressure steam engine.  Watt was a mentee of Hume's close friend (and personal physician), the noted chemist Joseph Black.<br /><br />Himmelfarb's treatment of Enlightenment attitudes towards religion is odd.  She would like to make the British and American Enlightenments hospitable to religion, while making the French Enlightenment hostile towards religion.  This requires some peculiar intellectual gymnastics.  It requires, for example, the dubious step of somehow transforming John Wesley into an Enlightenment figure.  Its true that Wesleyanism did have a number of admirable features, and its true as well that Wesleyanism embodied an attack and/or effort to reform the existing religous and social establishment.  These common features don't make Wesleyan evangelism identical to the Enlightenment.  This would be like saying Barry Goldwater and the SDS were both members of the same movement because they attacked the prevailing establishment of their day.  Now, its true, as Himmelfarb states, that Hume and Gibbon weren't dogmatic atheists.  But friendly to religion?  Hume's writings on religon are the most searching criticism of religous belief ever published.  Gibbon's Decline and Fall contains a devastating critique of Christianity.  With friends like these, who needs atheistic enemies. Himmelfarb is also inconsistent.  While she attempts to make Hume and Gibbon into individuals well disposed towards religion, she is disparaging in her treatment of radicals like Richard Price and Joseph Priestly, many of whom were sincerely religous and whose views were allied to several of the early leaders of the American Revolution.<br /><br />This is only one of numerous inconsistencies in Himmelfarb's presentation.  She attacks the French intellectuals for preferring to work through social reform by monarchial power, condemning their elitism.  She fails to mention, however, that Burke was the client and mouthpiece of prominent Whig Aristocrats.  She attacks the French for being \\"subversive\\" when the only group of Enlightenment intellectuals to actually work towards the overthrow of a legitimate and established government were the Americans.  She, like many others contrasts the \\"moderation\\" of the American Revolution with the excesses of the French Revolution.  Its true that there was no American equivalent to the Terror (though there was in Britain, only it occurred during the 17th century) but the American Rvolution, like all revolutions, was partially a civil war and the Patriots committed numerous acts of violence against the Tories.  It is true also that the magnitude of unjust acts committed during the French Revolution was considerably greater than those committed during the American Revolution.  But, France was a much larger country than the British Colonies.  RR Palmer pointed out approximately 50 years ago that the proportion of forced emigrants from France and what became the USA was approximately the same.<br /><br />How did an accomplished historian like Himmelfarb write such a poor book?  Part of the answer may be that she is not an 18th century specialist.  This can't be whole answer because of the outstanding secondary literature on the Enlightenment.  It could also be that she became enthralled with her national typology of the Enlightenment.  Simple and apparently powerful ideas often possess a power out of proportion to their true validity.  A large part of the answer comes at the end of the book when she starts to draw comparisons between the Enlightenment and contemporary political ideas.  It is hard to escape the conclusion that this book was written partially to give contemporary conservatism a respectable historical pedigree.  This is not very different from the actions of Marxist historians who cut and chop the past to make events fit into the Marxist model of historical progression.  Himmelfarb should know better.the American Revolution.   <br /> <br />This is only one of numerous inconsistencies in Himmelfarb's presentation.  She attacks the French intellectuals for preferring to work through social reform by monarchial power, condemning their elitism.  She fails to mention, however, that Burke was the client and mouthpiece of prominent Whig Aristocrats.  She attacks the French for being \\"subversive\\" when the only group of Enlightenment intellectuals to actually work towards the overthrow of a legitimate and established government were the Americans.  She, like many others contrasts the \\"moderation\\" of the American Revolution with the excesses of the French Revolution.  Its true that there was no American equivalent to the Terror (though there was in Britain, only it occurred during the 17th century) but the American Rvolution, like all revolutions, was partially a civil war and the Patriots committed numerous acts of violence against the Tories.  It is true also that the magnitude of unjust acts committed during the French Revolution was considerably greater than those committed during the American Revolution.  But, France was a much larger country than the British Colonies.  RR Palmer pointed out approximately 50 years ago that the proportion of forced emigrants from France and what became the USA was approximately the same.   <br /> <br />How did an accomplished historian like Himmelfarb write such a poor book?  Part of the answer may be that she is not an 18th century specialist.  This can't be whole answer because of the outstanding secondary literature on the Enlightenment.  It could also be that she became enthralled with her national typology of the Enlightenment.  Simple and apparently powerful ideas often possess a power out of proportion to their true validity.  A large part of the answer comes at the end of the book when she starts to draw comparisons between the Enlightenment and contemporary political ideas.  It is hard to escape the conclusion that this bookwas written partially to give contemporary conservatism a respectable historical pedigree.  This is not very different from the actions of Marxist historians who cut and chop the past to make events fit into the Marxist model of historical progression.  Himmelfarb should know better.	2004-12-05
441735:US	50676891	R3KXAUNTBAD6JD	0195157338	656900525	Mind: A Brief Introduction (Fundamentals of Philosophy Series)	Books	4	74	75	N	N	Interesting and Controversial	This is a relatively short book by Searle devoted to the philosophy of mind.  This book is something of a hybrid.  It is intended as a short introduction to the major themes in the philosophy of mind and does contain an introductory material on this topic.  It is, however, largely a presentation of Searle's thinking on this topic.  Readers familiar with Searle's work will find repetition of ideas he has presented previously, notably his work on consciousness, the Mind-Body problem, and intentionality.  These ideas, however, are presented on a background of other approaches to these problems.  The core of the book is an explication of the Mind-Body problem and Searle's distinctive approach to this problem.  Briefly, Searle claims to have 'solved' this problem, though like many clever solutions to difficult problems, the answer is a less a solution per se than a redefinition that makes the whole situation more tractable to analysis.  Searle's central point is that the first person nature of consciousness is not reducible to material events but is part of the natural world in a causal sense.  He finds the mind/body dichotomy to be false.  As is true of all his work, this book is written clearly, is without a lot of technical language (though readers need to know the meanings of epistemic and ontologic), and he defends his position vigorously.  Searle goes on to examine a number of other issues in the philosophy of mind, including intentionality, free will, the nature of self, and perception.  One of the most interesting aspects of the book is that Searle highlights certain issues, like the question of free will and the nature of the self, as poorly understood and as targets for future research.<br /><br />In terms of explicating and defending Searle's point of view, this is an excellent book.  It is less good on the historic background and alternative approaches to these questions.  I suspect Searle's critics will find his discussion of alternatives unsatisfactory, and I suspect some of these complaints will be justified.  In my amateur opinion, for example, I think Searle is not fair in his discussions of Hume's treatment of induction and perceptions.  In a book that is supposed to be an introduction for a broad reading public, inadequate presentation of other prespectives is a drawback.  There is some bibliography but it is not extensive or annotated.  A better guide to further reading would have been worthwhile.spect some of these complaints will be justified.  In my amateur opinion, for example, I think Searle is not fair in his discussions of Hume's treatment of induction and perceptions.  In a book that is supposed to be an introduction for a broad reading public, inadequate presentation of other prespectives is a drawback.  There is some bibliography but it is not extensive or annotated.  A better guide to further reading would have been worthwhile.	2004-11-29
447575:US	50676891	R2PBV3BKUMGV84	050002118X	560213355	The Moundbuilders: Ancient Peoples of Eastern North America (Ancient Peoples and Places)	Books	3	59	65	N	N	Solid; 3.5	This is a very good introduction to the peoples who left behind the impressive mounds in eastern North America.  This book is pitched at an undergraduate level.  Milner provides a chronologically arranged review of the prehistory of eastern North America. He sticks closely to the archeaology of sites and is careful to avoid speculation beyond what the often modest evidence provides.  Milner is a workmanlike writer who does a solid job of describing excavations and their probable significance.  The illustrations are very good and there is anice appendix describing sites that can be visited.  Deficiencies of this book are that there is relatively little discussion of why cultures changed.  Were there climactic factors?  Some comparisons with other evolving cultures of the Americas could have been enlightening.	2004-11-23
451211:US	50676891	RN9LK8YFGICZX	0451459792	278877946	Dies the Fire: A Novel of the Change	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Entertaining	This is a clever inversion of Stirling's prior alternate history series in which a community of 20th century Americans are transported into the Bronze Age.  In this book, the same weird event that sends the heroes of his prior books into an alternative universe apparently changes the basic physics of our universe, resulting in a world in which only preindustrial technology is possible.  Indeed, even some preindustrial technology, like gunpowder, doesn't work.  This results in the collapse of civilization and hundreds of millions of deaths.  Stirling presents a relatively conventional adventure story of a group of survivors putting a working society together.  Stirling is a competent writer.  The plot and background detail are reasonably worked out.<br /><br />As is conventional in post-holocaust novels, the emerging society is a form of feudalism.  The common inspiration for this idea is the development of feudalism after the fall of the Western Roman Empire in Europe.  I wonder if this apparently reasonable historical analogy hasn't become a straightjacket for the genre of post-holocaust novels.  Feudalism was never the uniform system of political organization in Medieval Europe.  Some regions, like Switerland and Iceland, remained relatively free of feudal institutions.  Important institutions, like the great monasteries, had crucial features quite different from feudalism.  Feudalism emerged in Western Europe in part because crucial institutions of the late Western Roman Empire prefigured Feudal political organization.  Manorialism was already common and some semi-feudal political institutions developed in the last century of the Western Roman Empire.  I think its a mistake to assume that feudalism will emerge automatically without such substantial historic roots.	2004-11-19
452051:US	50676891	RBKEB8YQ73PVV	0670032840	334352306	Rising '44: The Battle for Warsaw	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Fine Depiction of a Tragedy	This very good and sometimes powerful book is the latest product of the distinguished historian of Poland, Norman Davies.  While passionately engaged with Polish history, Davies is able to maintain a critical stance towards his subject.  In this long but well written volume, Davies presents a basic narrative of the Rising, places it in historic context with very good discussions of events leading up to and after the Rising, and addresses some of the controversies surrounding the Rising. Davies does a better job on the latter two than of basic narration.  Davies' presentation of the events of the Rising is certainly adequate but not outstanding. The actual events of the Rising occupy a minority of the book and while a day by day account would have been exhausting, more actual narration and detail about the events of the Rising itself would have been desirable.  Davies really shines in discussing the complex politics of the Polish Government in Exile and its relations with the other Allies.  Davies' careful analysis of the controversy over the Rising is also excellent.  Davies deals well with many of the criticisms levelled against the leaders of the Rising. He also develops the very interesting thesis that the Rising may not have been doomed from the start.  Many have assumed that nothing would have altered the outcome because Stalin was determined to let the Germans extirpate the Rising.  Davies suggests that Stalin might actually have been uncertain about his policy towards the Poles and that a firm stance in support of the Poles by the Western allies might have tipped events in their favor.  Its impossible to say whether or not this might have been true but it is clear that the leaders of the Home Army, stuck between the Germans and the Soviets, faced a set of horribly difficult alternatives and while their decision might have been wrong, it wasn't irrational.  What is clear is that the Home Army in Warsaw and many of the citizens of Warsaw behaved with remarkable valor.  It is also clear that the Poles were treated shabbily by the Western Allies, particularly the Americans.  The British record is mixed, some British leaders, including Churchill, were sympathetic to the Rising.  Others were definitely not.  RAF bomber crews, often with mixed crews of Brits, Poles, Canadians, and South Africans, performed heroically in efforts to supply the Home Army.  On balance, however, the British failed their Polish Allies.  The final impression left by this book is one of tragedy.valor.  It is also clear that the Poles were treated shabbily by the Western Allies, particularly the Americans.  The British record is mixed, some British leaders, including Churchill, were sympathetic to the Rising.  Others were definitely not.  RAF bomber crews, often with mixed crews of Brits, Poles, Canadians, and South Africans, performed heroically in efforts to supply the Home Army.  On balance, however, the British failed their Polish Allies.  The final impression left by this book is one of tragedy.	2004-11-18
456834:US	50676891	R1APT4WR8PLJ3F	0691094837	24597750	The Gifts of Athena: Historical Origins of the Knowledge Economy	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Thought Provoking But Could be Written Better	This is an interesting book devoted to the importance of knowledge in the formation of modern industrial economies.  Mokyr has several goals.  The first and most important is to illuminate the origins of the modern industrial economy.  Others are to illustrate the impact of modern economy, particularly its knowledge based elements, on modern life, to discuss barriers to the acquisition and dissemination of knew and useful knowledge, and to discuss differences in economic behavior between firms and households.  The quality of the book is somewhat uneven, possibly because this book is based on prior essays and lectures that Mokyr has prepared in the last decade.  While the book certainly has a strong theme, the individual chapters don't allows cohere.<br /><br />The initial part of the book is devoted to the thesis that a key, perhaps the key, feature leading to the genesis of the Industrial Revolution, was the birth in Western Europe of interest in \\"useful knowledge.\\"  This is not science per se, or engineering per se, but an amalgam of both driven by a desire to use knowledge of the natural world in ways that manipulate the natural world to human advantage.  For Mokyr, the scientific revolution of the 17th century is a necessary precursor to the Industrial Revolution but the foundation of the Industrial Revolution is the Enlightenment's dedication to science, rationalism, its insistence that human activity can improve the lot of humanity, and its insistence on public dissemination of useful knowledge through publishing and education.  The quintessential example of this crucial aspect of the Enlightenment is the Great Encyclopedia, dedicated to disseminating the best practices in virtually all areas of human activity.  Mokyr makes a very good case that this basic attitude permeated much of Europe, from famous intellectuals to craftsman and business seeking to produce incremental improvements in production technologies.  Implicit in Mokyr's discussion is that this attitude, set in the expanding societies of Western Europe, and coupled, particularly in Britain, with a society that encouraged capitalism, caused the Industrial Revolution.  He argues, for example, that the development of the factory was driven in large part by the advantages of bringing expertise about most efficiect production practices under one roof.<br /><br />Later sections of the book are devoted to the impact on households of emphasizing rational and useful knowledge.  These sections stress the public health impacts of this aspect of industrialization.  Mokyr has an interesting section on the differences between households and firms.  He also discusses barriers to innovation with varying success.  Parts of this discussion are good, parts are tendentious.  A criticism of some parts of the book are that Mokyr resorts to the practice, common among economists, of using equations and graphs to make points, essentially using these tools as metaphors for his verbal descriptions.  Since he is not actually analyzing data, this practice is at best redundant, and sometimes actually confusing.<br /><br />Mokyr is at his best in making a strong argument for the role of knowledge in the genesis of the Industrial Revolution, and by implication, its role in our contemporary economies.  He is gently but strongly critical of other views of birth of the Industrial Revolution, notably the idea that it was a direct result of European commerical capitalism.  In this, he joins a number of other recent scholars who have been critical of this simple idea., set in the expanding societies of Western Europe, and coupled, particularly in Britain, with a society that encouraged capitalism, caused the Industrial Revolution.  He argues, for example, that the development of the factory was driven in large part by the advantages of bringing expertise about most efficiect production practices under one roof.   <br />Later sections of the book are devoted to the impact on households of emphasizing rational and useful knowledge.  These sections stress the public health impacts of this aspect of industrialization.  Mokyr has an interesting section on the differences between households and firms.  He also discusses barriers to innovation with varying success.  Parts of this discussion are good, parts are tendentious.  A criticism of some parts of the book are that Mokyr resorts to the practice, common among economists, of using equations and graphs to make points, essentially using these tools as metaphors for his verbal descriptions.  Since he is not actually analyzing data, this practice is at best redundant, and sometimes actually confusing.   <br />Mokyr is at his best in making a strong argument for the role of knowledge in the genesis of the Industrial Revolution, and by implication, its role in our contemporary economies.  He is gently but strongly critical of other views of birth of the Industrial Revolution, notably the idea that it was a direct result of European commerical capitalism.  In this, he joins a number of other recent scholars who have been critical of this simple idea.	2004-11-14
463280:US	50676891	RTDN3978JDZ1F	1582344167	481973042	Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell	Books	4	9	13	N	N	Somewhere between 3.5 and 4	The reviews of this book are polarized.  A large number of reader-reviewers love this book, a smaller but apparently equally passionate reader-reviewers can't stand it.  On balance, this is a good book.  The premise and development of an alternative universe involving magic are very good.  The plot is ingenious and I found character development to be good.  Set in the early 19th century, Clarke made a conscious and largely successful effort to pattern this book on the work of Jane Austen and particularly Thackray.  The combination of fantasy with serious comedy of manners in unusual and largely successful.  Clarke has also done a reasonably good job of integrating some real historical personages like Wellington, and Byron into the book.<br /><br />Readers, however, who object to the length of the book are justified in their complaints.  I think more vigorous editing would have improved the book without sacrificing the period quality of the presentation.  This is a first novel and the conclusion leaves open the door for a sequel.  We'll see what Clarke can do in her next book.	2004-11-08
467286:US	50676891	R3P30BCEFOVHAC	0684188775	290559433	The Black Arrow: A Tale of the Two Roses (Scribner's Illustrated Classics)	Books	3	4	9	N	N	Good	This is a good book but not the best of Stevenson's adventure novels.  Intended to be a bildungsroman a la Kidnapped, it is set in Medieval England during the Wars of the Roses.  The character development is not as good as several of Stevenson's other novels and the plot seems more schematic.  In terms of creating a historically vivid setting.  Stevenson did better with 18th century Scotland than with this period of English history.	2004-11-04
469179:US	50676891	RDQPET7YXR9Q1	0451213076	165093773	Days of Infamy: A Novel of Alternate History	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Better Than Most of His Recent Books	This is a solid alternate history novel based on the premise that the attack on Pearl Harbor was followed by a successful Japanese invasion of the Hawaiian islands.  Turtledove uses his conventional multiple characters/plot threads style to construct a panoramic view of this alternate history.  The recency and massive documentation of WWII provides Turtledove with a rich resource for unfolding events.  Essentially, he has shifted much of the Pacific War eastwards.  Doolittle's raid on Tokyo becomes a raid on Honolulu.  The Battle of Midway becomes an American attempt to retake the Hawaiian islands, which the Japanese victorious.  Probably the best feature of this book is the depiction of racism on both sides.  Turtledove shows well how Asian-Americans were second class citizens in pre-war Hawaii and also shows the brutal ethnocentrism of the Japanese.	2004-11-02
476090:US	50676891	RCV272P95CXMW	037575475X	391396215	La Salle and the Discovery of the Great West (Modern Library Exploration)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	America's Tacitus	Parkman is that unusual combination of great scholar and wonderful writer.  His books depicting the history of French exploration of North America and the conflict between the French and the British for control of North America remain the basic narratives of these events.  Parkman's writing, combining narrative, psychological insight into major historical actors, and use of rhetoric that seamlessly reflects his narrative, is often superb.  This particular book is almost entirely devoted to the career of the Sieur De La Salle, the French explorer obsessed with establishing French control over the Mississippi valley.  Parkman provides vivid portraits of the almost incredible hardships of travel in North America, the character of politics in the French colonies, and an insightful treatment of La Salle and his associates.  Parkman's powerful but restrained language often recalls the style of Tacitus.	2004-10-27
484390:US	50676891	R2GX9LD1ZR560Z	0874517281	62019024	The Puritan Experiment: New England Society from Bradford to Edwards (Library of New England)	Books	4	36	36	N	N	Excellent Overview	This is a very successful attempt to produce an overview of the Puritan experience in New England.  Arguably the most important single group on American history, this relatively small collection of religously inspired immigrants generated a number of cultural and political trends that continue as important features of American life.  Bremer provides the basic narrative structure, social and demographic history, and theological history of the Puritan experiment in a concise and well written book of less than 250 pages.  Readers will be struck with how features of the Puritan experience continue to resonate today, particularly certain aspects of the Puritan religous experience.  Also impressive is how aspects of Puritan history in the 17th century prefigured events of the later 18th century.  The New England colonies' conflicts with the centralizing tendency of the later Stuart kings, the resentment towards imperialistic economic policies, the emphasis on relatively broad political participation, all have important parallels in the struggles that lead up to the Revolution.  Not surprisingly, religion occupies a central place in this book.  Bremer does a particularly good job of describing the Puritans' sense of themselves as a chosen people, their involvement in a trans-Atlantic religous culture, and their complex theology.  Perhaps the only deficiency, and this is relatively minor, is Bremer's less thorough treatment of the 18th century.  While the narrative continues up to the death of Jonathan Edwards in 1758, the treatment of the 18th century is more superficial than of the 17th century.  This is probably an understandable result of Bremer's desire to keep this book concise.  There is also a very nice annotated bibliography.  In using the latter, readers should bear in mind that this edition was published in 1995 and there have been important works published since 1995.  There is no reference, for example, to George Marsden's outstanding biography of Jonathan Edwards, which was published last year.  Overall, this is a very valuable distillation of the broad and impressive body of scholarship concerning these fascinating people.rds, which was published last year.  Overall, this is a very valuable distillation of the broad and impressive body of scholarship concerning these fascinating people.	2004-10-19
491839:US	50676891	R163S17OWAUBBF	0374237549	464658733	Conspirators: A Novel	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Ambitious But Not Entirely Successful	This is an ambitious historical novel set in Galicia, the easternmost province of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, on the eve of WWI.  Bernstein attempts a combined social and psychological novel.  Some reviewers refer to this as a 'modernist' work but its scope and intent seem closer to major 19th century novels.  Conspirators features a host of characters and efforts to provide psychological description of all the major characters.  Major themes are the fragmentation of life in this setting and a sense of alienation that grips all the characters, though in different ways.  As commented by others, the focus of the novel is on Jewish life, and only one of the major characters is not a Jew.<br /><br />The quality of writing is distinctly uneven.  Many characters and scenes are delineated well.  Others are repetitive and can be dull reading.  The scenes, for example, involving the 'wonder rebbe' Moses Elch, are consistently interesting.  Other scenes, like those involving the major non-Jewish character, Count Wiladowski, are repetitive.  Overall, the effort to treat Jewish life in this community is sympathetic and interesting.  In terms of the themes of fragmentation and alienation, I am not sure the book really hangs together, though this may be Bernstein's deliberate choice.<br /><br />Despite these defects, there aren't a lot of recent novels with this serious intent and ambition.  Bernstein may be a writer to watch.	2004-10-12
497719:US	50676891	R37ZQCXLLMXFA	0684801221	737092002	The Old Man and The Sea	Books	2	6	11	N	N	Sentimental	What do Saddam Hussein and the American reading public of the 1950s have in common?  They both loved this book.  Its easy to see how Saddam saw his own predicament in this sentimental story of an old fisherman landing and losing a legendary fish.  Hemingway was not, unfortunately, a good novelist.  Hemingway's best short stories are some of the finest in the English language but he doesn't seem to have been able to sustain character and plot development sufficiently to produce really good novels.  Even this short novel displays Hemingway's weaknesses as a novelist.  Even worse, it is sentimental beyond belief, without any of the clear-eyed irony or insight into human nature exhibited in the best short stories.  This is a weeper for middle-aged men.  See any of the great Nick Adams stories for comparison.  While this book appears to have revived Hemingway's career, at least in terms of popular readership, it really shows the decline of Hemingway's powers.	2004-10-07
501232:US	50676891	R22HUGUNAFBDJM	0140434461	166561644	The Master of Ballantrae: A Winter's Tale (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	24	25	N	N	One of Stevenson's Best	Stevenson is best known today as a writer of juvenile fiction.  This doesn't do justice to his skills as a writer of historical fiction or his ability to explore psychological and moral issues.  Master of Ballantrae is one of his best works.  Set in 18th century Scotland, it is an exploration of the nature and relationship between good and evil.  In many ways, this is a parallel book to Jekyll and Hyde.  In Master, the different aspects of human moral behavior are explored in conflict and relationship of 2 brothers, one charismatic and amoral, the other, stolid and virtuous.  This is primarily a psychological novel of family tragedy brought about by the characters of the 2 bothers in a conflict ignited by the Jacobite uprising of 1745.  Stevenson does an excellent job of handling the characters and plot.  As with his other work, there is a nice depiction of 18th century Scotland.  This is not a great work, but it is very good.	2004-10-04
526568:US	50676891	RCDXFIQF8ZLU6	1585675458	221333080	Old Boys	Books	2	6	8	N	N	Disappointing	Almost 30 years ago, McCarry wrote 2 of the best espionage thrillers ever produced, The Tears of Autumn and The Secret Lovers.  Following the success of these books, McCarry produced a series of books involving some of the same characters in those books, particularly his hero, the CIA spy Paul Christopher.  These later books were generally good but not at the level of Tears or Secret Lovers.  McCarry's characterizations became shallower and the plots of his novels increasingly complicated and implausible.  Old Boys, his first espionage novel in years, continues the unfortunate tendencies of his later books.  The plot is highly implausible and in fact, not developed well.  There is a host of characters, few of them developed well.  This is a mediocre potboiler from someone who can clearly do better.	2004-09-10
529107:US	50676891	R1SH1AM42HDJXJ	0670032964	444014990	The Reformation: A History	Books	5	44	46	N	N	Excellent	MacCulloch's primary goal is to produce a readable, comprehensive overview of the Reformation.  He is particularly concerned with educating the general reading public and aims at exposing the general public to recent advances in scholarship concerning the Reformation.  It is clear also that he wishes this volume to be sufficiently rigorous to be useful to scholars.  MacCulloch succeeds completely.  This is a very well written, well organized, and truly comprehensive survey of the Reformation.<br /><br />MacCulloch begins with an excellent analysis of the features and discontents within the late Medieval church, proceeds to the sequence of events that initiated the Reformation, and then explores the major features of the Reformation and its consequences.  There is an excellent, broad view of the events of the Reformation and Counter-Reformation.  Rather than just concentrating on the major countries of Europe, MacCulloch provides excellent coverage of regions like Scotland, Lithuania, and Transylvania that were important stages for the Reformation.  This is important, not only because these sections fulfill MacCulloch's goal of being comprehensive but also because events in these areas, often regarded as peripheral, are typically revealing of important features of the Reformation.  MacCulloch does an excellent job of constructing the basic narrative, presenting the careers and often the personalities of the major figures of the Reformation, discussing the often complicated theological issues, and providing concise analyses for why events at given times and locations resulted in specific outcomes.  MacCulloch has no ideological axe to grind and provides equivalent discussion of both the Reform movements and the Counter-Reformation response.  Virtually all sections of this book are excellent, and many are outstanding.  Among the many highlights are insightful discussions of the impact of printing, the origins of distinctive Anglican theology (the English Reformation is MacCulloch's specialty), the role of the very real threat of Ottoman Islam, and the role of millenarianism in the Thirty Years War.<br /><br />This is a really admirable performance.acCulloch's specialty), the role of the very real threat of Ottoman Islam, and the role of millenarianism in the Thirty Years War.   <br />This is a really admirable performance.	2004-09-08
530252:US	50676891	R3EPNMMJ12Q694	159420019X	240296592	The Americanization of Benjamin Franklin	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Really 3.5	This is an extended essay on Benjamin Franklin by the distinguished historian Gordon Wood.  Wood explores Franklin's career and his later significance in American life.  This concise book gives an outline of Franklin's life and then concentrates on Franklin's role in the American Revolution.  Wood uses Franklin to show the evolution of many colonials from thinking of themselves as English and enthusiastic supporters of the British Empire to revolutionaries.  Franklin is an extreme example of this general phenomenon.  Resident for many years in England, Franklin was enamoured of the cosmopolitanism of English life and an enthusiastic imperialist.  Many many colonials, he was disillusioned by the maladroit handling of colonial affairs after the Seven Years War.  Once he converted to the cause of the Revolution, he became a fervent supporter and his diplomacy at the French court was crucial to the success of the Revolution.  Woods deals also with Franklin's transition from craftsman to gentleman and his later adoption by the American public as the symbol of successful capitalism.  These discussions provide some insight into the changing nature of social and political life engendered by the Revolution.<br /><br />Like all of Wood's work, this is a well written and insightful book.  It is, especially in comparison with his prior monographs, relatively slight.  Well worth reading but not a major work of scholarship.	2004-09-07
534505:US	50676891	R7NPMMCQB6HM3	0670885797	452916029	Borges: A Life	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Fine Biography	This is a fine biography of the great Argentine writer, Jorge Luis Borges.  Williamson's primary goals are to provide a good description of Borges' life and to correlate events of his life with his written works.  This good book is the product of both careful research on Borges' life and a sensitive reading of Borges' publications.  This book is best appreciated by those with a good familiarity with Borges' fictions and poetry.  Penguin has recently published excellent collections of Borges' fictions, poetry, and non-fiction writing.  If you haven't read Borges for a while, reading Williamson's biography in tandem with parts of the Penguin collections is a good experience.<br /><br />Williamson does a particularly good job of pointing out the parallels between Borges' personal preoccupations, particularly his search for love, and changes in directions in his work.  Borges was a sickly, bookish child who became one of those people who view the world through a highly intellectualized prism.  For example, one of his enduring preoccupations was a search for love that would accomplish what Borges thought the love of Beatrice had done for Dante.  Borges also had a complex relationship with his parents which also had significant intellectual dimensions and was entangled with his sense of identity as an Argentine.  Like many very creative people, Borges was an odd and often unhappy individual who was able to turn some of his personal conflicts and agony into substantial work.  Many of the apparently metaphysical themes of his fictions were personal issues for Borges.  Williamson does an excellent job of illuminating Borges' work.<br /><br />Williamson is also very good on Borges' somewhat convoluted relationship to his home country.  As mentioned about, this was bound up with his complex relations with his parents.  Borges was often, however, an engaged intellectual.  In the 30s, 40s, and 50s, he was an outspoken opponent of the right and of Peron.  Some of his stands demonstrated real courage because he spoke out when Peron was at the height of his power.  Late in life, unfortunately, his hatred of Peronism led to him to give support to the detestable military dictatorship responsible for the Dirty War.  He came to regret this stance and did exhibit some moral leadership in human rights campaigns against the dictators.<br /><br />This will be the standard biography, at least in English, for some time.d real courage because he spoke out when Peron was at the height of his power.  Late in life, unfortunately, his hatred of Peronism led to him to give support to the detestable military dictatorship responsible for the Dirty War.  He came to regret this stance and did exhibit some moral leadership in human rights campaigns against the dictators.   <br />This will be the standard biography, at least in English, for some time.	2004-09-02
553083:US	50676891	R1IWPAKELVTJA0	0375411569	597967363	Europe's Last Summer: Who Started the Great War in 1914?	Books	3	13	19	N	N	Mediocre	This is a disappointing book.  As shown by his very good book, A Peace to End All Peace, Fromkin is capable of good analysis and writing.  The present book, however, shows signs of being written hastily.<br /><br />Fromkin does not present any original analysis or research, rather this book reflects an consensus among scholars about the origin of WWI.  It is based on the extensive secondary literature on the origin of WWI, which includes some outstanding scholarship.  In line with the conclusions of a number of historians, Fromkin concludes that WWI was started by the Austrians and the Germans.  The former because they wanted a preemptive war against Serbia and the latter because they wanted a preemptive war against the Russian-French Alliance.  Fromkin lays out the evidence for this conclusion and provides a relatively standard narrative of the diplomatic events leading to the outbreak of war.<br /><br />What Fromkin does not do is give a particularly good idea of how Europe came to be tinderbox and in particular, why the German decision makers came to prefer war.  For example, how did Germany end up without any significant allies except the weak Austro-Hungarian Empire?  Why did the Germans pursue policies of colonial and naval expansion that alarmed Great Britain?  How did relations between Germany and Russia, once allies, come to be so poor?  There are interesting answers to all these questions but they don't appear in this book except in the most cursory form.  This is an odd series of omissions because Fromkin's sources contain the probably answers to these questions.  Fromkin quotes with approval the work of Volker Bergahn, whose writings have addressed several of these issues, but doesn't reproduce Bergahn's excellent explanations of how the dysfunctional German political system produced dangerous foreign policy.  Fromkin makes approving statements about the work of the great German historian, Fritz Fischer, but doesn't seem to have assimilated the important arguments in his book War of Illusions.  Fromkin's narrative is also somewhat confusing on close reading.  At times he gives the impression of conspiratorial planning between Germany and Austria, at other times, he gives the more correct impression of decision makers, sometimes within the same government, working at cross purposes to each other.  Fromkin has a tendency to make small but significant errors.  He refers to Bavaria as the largest of the constituent states of the German Empire, which is clearly wrong.  The book is written in a series of short, choppy chapters which disrupt narrative flow.<br /><br />Because of the importance of this topic, a good concise book on this subject would be valuable.  This is not that book.  There is, however, a reasonable alternative.  The opening chapters of Hew Strachan's To War, the first volume of his projected multi-volume history of WWI, cover the same ground but are hugely better than this book.  I recommend also Bergahn's Imperial Germany (if you can find it), a superb and concise summary of German Imperial history which contains a short and insightful discussion of how and why Germany started the war.ts in his book War of Illusions.  Fromkin's narrative is also somewhat confusing on close reading.  At times he gives the impression of conspiratorial planning between Germany and Austria, at other times, he gives the more correct impression of decision makers, sometimes within the same government, working at cross purposes to each other.  Fromkin has a tendency to make small but significant errors.  He refers to Bavaria as the largest of the constituent states of the German Empire, which is clearly wrong.  The book is written in a series of short, choppy chapters which disrupt narrative flow. <br />Because of the importance of this topic, a good concise book on this subject would be valuable.  This is not that book.  There is, however, a reasonable alternative.  The opening chapters of Hew Strachan's To War, the first volume of his projected multi-volume history of WWI, cover the same ground but are hugely better than this book.  I recommend also Bergahn's Imperial Germany (if you can find it), a superb and concise summary of German Imperial history which contains a short and insightful discussion of how and why Germany started the war.	2004-08-17
557261:US	50676891	R333KXJ70V8PIC	1400060184	739143398	Dark Voyage: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Very Good	Another fine historical thriller from Alan Furst.  This book depicts the experiences of a Dutch freighter captain and his crew as they work for Allied naval intelligence during WWII.  The travels of the ship provide Furst with an opportunity to visit several locales and the book features a substantial group of characters.  As with some of the prior Furst novels, the protagonist comes from one of the smaller combatant nations and Furst is essentially highlighting the distinctive historical experience of these nations.  There is not a single driving plot, rather a set of variations on the theme of clandestine operations and their human cost.  This book features also some vivid writing about naval combat in some lesser known episodes of the war like the Crete campaign and the disastrous withdrawal of the Soviet Navy from the Baltic states.  Furst continues to write at a high level.	2004-08-13
562379:US	50676891	R2BC22LLXRPG6Y	0756401968	967372453	Fitzpatrick's War	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Imaginative	This is an entertaining and imaginative future history story.  Set several centuries in the future, Fitzpatrick's War takes place in a world where electrical power is forbidden.  Sophisticated technology exists, but the mechanical technology is steam powered and biotechnology is relatively advanced.  The book features an interesting society called the Yukon Confederacy, a semi-feudal society which has elements of a Christianized Sparta.  The plot concerns the efforts of a leading member of the Yukons to emulated the career of Alexander the Great.  The quality of writing and characterization is solid.  The presentation of the Yukon world is very good and Judson has shown both real imagination and some rigor in developing this future history.  For example, this is certainly the only future history based on ideas from Renaissance political theory.  Recommended strongly for those who enjoy science fiction.	2004-08-08
562853:US	50676891	R3UPN5ZMFH3YV8	0193153181	220664139	I Saw the World End: A Study of Wagner's Ring (Clarendon Paperbacks)	Books	5	50	50	N	Y	Masterly Exegesis	This book is a model of thoughtful interpretation.  Cooke begins by setting out why interpretation of the Ring cycle has been so difficult.  This is seen as due partly to the enormous complexity of the work, partly due to the fact that prior major interpretations have been based on somewhat unrealistic preconceptions, for example, Bernard Shaw's social-political interpretation, and partly due to prior major interpretations bypassing close analysis of the music itself.  Cooke develops a set of explicit criteria for an accurate interpretation of the Ring and applies them to prior major interpretative efforts.  His critique of Robert Dornington's Jungian analysis, for example is moderate in tone but devastating in effect.  Cooke defends Wagner against the charge that the plot and characters of the Ring are a shoddily assembled hodge-podge of myth.  Cooke performs a careful analysis of Wagner's sources, using the same editions that Wagner drew from.  Cooke demonstrates Wagner's careful and artful selection and modification of elements from German and Nordic mythology into a sophisticated and well integrated drama.  Cooke's recurring term for Wagner's craft is masterly and he is correct.  With this background, Cooke moves to a careful analysis of the plot and characters of the first 2 operas, Rheingold and Valkyrie.  An essentially step by step analysis shows how Wagner used plot and character to advance his theme of the conflict of power versus love.<br /><br />The only defect of this book is that it ends with the conclusion of Valkyrie.  Though this book is over 350 pages long (in a small but not miniscule font), this would have been only the beginning of Cooke's projected opus on the Ring.  Presumably, there would have been an equivalent amount of enlightening text on Siegfried and Gotterdamerung.  Cooke then apparently planned a major work analyzing the development of musical aspects of the drama.  Listeners who have heard Cooke's excellent introduction to the leitmotivs of the Ring will have had a taste of what Cooke planned.  Its truly unfortunate that Cooke didn't live to complete this project.s of the Ring will have had a taste of what Cooke planned.  Its truly unfortunate that Cooke didn't live to complete this project.	2004-08-07
563745:US	50676891	R2V5VWQN8LH0NO	0691005699	851837633	001: Age of the Democratic Revolution, Vol. 1: The Challenge	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Outstanding Comparative Analysis	Written over 40 years ago, The Age of the Democratic Revolution is still the major effort at interpreting the political upheavals of the late 18th century.  Covering a remarkably broad range of societies, Palmer deals with France, the American Revolution, Britain, the Holy Roman Empire, various German states, Russia, Italy, Belgium, Switzerland, and the Netherlands. This is an effort to reveal the major structural features of political and social conflict in what Palmer refers to as the Atlantic world.  Since he has extensive discussion of Eastern Europe as well, it might be better to describe his frame as something like Greater Europe.  In order to produce his major structural analyses, Palmer narrrates and analyzes events across several decades and across several countries.  It is a measure of the quality of Palmer's scholarship and writing ability that this book serves as a excellent narrative overview of the political and diplomatic history of many of the countries discussed.  Not surprisingly, France and the events generated by the French Revolution occupy a central place but one of the most impressive things about this book is how Palmer features the importance of events in places like Holland and the Austrian controlled parts of Italy.  Even the tiny Genevan republic and Ireland receive thorough and enlightening coverage.<br /><br />Palmer sees the American Revolution, the French Revolution, and allied events as driven by the collision of a series of pan-European forces.  He points out that the first half of the 18th century had actually seen a hardening of social barriers, a decline in social mobility, and increasing dominance of important political institutions by smaller inherited elites.  The increasingly aristocratic nature of many European societies was opposed to a very large extent by Monarchies wishing to extend their authority.  The financial strains imposed by the Seven Years War appear to have been particularly important in prompting several governments, France, Britain, and even the Holy Roman Empire, into attempts to extend royal power and reduce the power of traditional and aristocratically dominated institutions.  Implicit in Palmer's analysis is that the humanitarianism of the Enlightenment had produced alternative ways of looking at society and governance that undermined the legitimacy of aristrocratic institutions and social structure based on deference.  Ironically, some aspects of Enlightenment political theory were used to defend traditional institutions.  Over the course of the second half of the 18th century, this collision produces, at least initially, aristocratic success in turning back the challenges to traditional institutions.  In many countries, notably France, the aristocratic revolution is followed is then followed by Democratic Revolutions resulting in the ultimate destruction of a huge array of traditional politcal and social institutions.  Palmer has thoughtful discussions of the varying aspects of this general phenomenon in a large array of nations.  Britain and the American colonies prove to be important exceptions to the general model and their unique features result in the American Revolution and what can only be called a relatively peaceful counter-revolution in Britain.<br /><br />This is then followed by a superb series of discussions of the consequences of the Democratic Revolutions throughout Europe and North America.<br /><br />Some aspects of Palmer's analysis are probably incorrect.  This is not surprising as he wrote over 40 years ago and there has been a lot of important scholarship since the publication of this book.  For example, I think Palmer is a bit unfair to Alexander Hamilton and the Federalists in the USA.  I suspect that some will find this book, with its emphasis on political history, a bit old-fashioned.  These, however, are quibbles.  In terms of breadth of understanding and depth of analysis, this is a truly outstanding work of scholarship.nts, France, Britain, and even the Holy Roman Empire, into attempts to extend royal power and reduce the power of traditional and aristocratically dominated institutions.  Implicit in Palmer's analysis is that the humanitarianism of the Enlightenment had produced alternative ways of looking at society and governance that undermined the legitimacy of aristrocratic institutions and social structure based on deference.  Ironically, some aspects of Enlightenment political theory were used to defend traditional institutions.  Over the course of the second half of the 18th century, this collision produces, at least initially, aristocratic success in turning back the challenges to traditional institutions.  In many countries, notably France, the aristocratic revolution is followed is then followed by Democratic Revolutions resulting in the ultimate destruction of a huge array of traditional politcal and social institutions.  Palmer has thoughtful discussions of the varying aspects of this general phenomenon in a large array of nations.  Britain and the American colonies prove to be important exceptions to the general model and their unique features result in the American Revolution and what can only be called a relatively peaceful counter-revolution in Britain.   <br />This is then followed by a superb series of discussions of the consequences of the Democratic Revolutions throughout Europe and North America.   <br />Some aspects of Palmer's analysis are probably incorrect.  This is not surprising as he wrote over 40 years ago and there has been a lot of important scholarship since the publication of this book.  For example, I think Palmer is a bit unfair to Alexander Hamilton and the Federalists in the USA.  I suspect that some will find this book, with its emphasis on political history, a bit old-fashioned.  These, however, are quibbles.  In terms of breadth of understanding and depth of analysis, this is a truly outstanding work of scholarship.	2004-08-06
569129:US	50676891	R2NJSZE195TPYS	0670894737	141542110	The Great Influenza: The Epic Story of the Deadliest Plague in History	Books	3	14	18	N	N	Average	This ambitious book has several defects.  These start with the title, which appears to promise a comprehensive history of the great Ifluenza pandemic of 1918-1920.  In fact, this book is almost entirely about the pandemic in the USA.  Another major drawback is that Barry is trying to tell two stories.  One story is that of the pandemic itself.  The second is the story of the response of American scientists to the flu.  This latter story is developed as essentially a capsule history of the development of American biomedical research, concentrating on infectious disease, in the early 20th century.  For example, the first 80-90 pages of the book deal with the development of Johns Hopkins and the Rockefellar institute as research institutions.  While the stories of influenza and the emergence of American scientists as world figures are certainly inter-related, they are still fairly distinct.  In attempting to tell two stories, Barry doesn't do a first rate job of telling either, leaving this book as a sort of muddled combination.  To really do justice to the development of American science, Barry would have to spend a lot more time on this topic and include subjects such as the reform of undergraduate curricula at several institutions (Harvard, Michigan, Oberlin College) in the late 19th century.  He doesn't include any real information about the general development of American science in the years leading up to WWI.  By 1914, the USA was certainly not Germany, but American scientists had made notable contributions in many fields, including astronomy, chemistry, cell biology, and genetics.  The lack of this general background gives Barry's discussion of the biomedical research a thin quality.<br /><br />Barry doesn't do a first rate job on the flu pandemic either.  A number of chapters are very good, especially those on the pandemic in Philadelphia.  The latter gives a vivid sense of the effect of the pandemic.  Barry's complete reliance on narration, however, is an obstacle to really grasping the quantitative dimension of the pandemic.  Addition of even a few well prepared graphics addressing the spread of the flu, mortality, etc., would have markedly improved the book.  Again, the book doesn't really deal in any substantial way with the pandemic as a whole, just with the USA.  As commented by at least one other reviewer, Barry has a rather heavy handed writing style which becomes wearing.<br /><br />Despite Barry's sincere efforts, I am not sure that this book is much better than Crosby's America's Forgotten Epidemic, which is now probably out of print.  That book covered much of the same groud, is shorter, and is better written.to really grasping the quantitative dimension of the pandemic.  Addition of even a few well prepared graphics addressing the spread of the flu, mortality, etc., would have markedly improved the book.  Again, the book doesn't really deal in any substantial way with the pandemic as a whole, just with the USA.  As commented by at least one other reviewer, Barry has a rather heavy handed writing style which becomes wearing. <br />Despite Barry's sincere efforts, I am not sure that this book is much better than Crosby's America's Forgotten Epidemic, which is now probably out of print.  That book covered much of the same groud, is shorter, and is better written.	2004-08-02
579758:US	50676891	R3UATXZ16Q642D	0521387108	619979728	The Cambridge Companion to Hume (Cambridge Companions to Philosophy)	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	Excellent Compendium	The goal of this collection of essays is to provide background and commentary of important aspects of the work of David Hume. The intent of this book is to provide guidance and context for individuals reading Hume.  This book easily exceeds those goals.  The authors are all well known experts on Hume and this book covers the whole spectrum of Hume's output from his seminal philosophical works through his essays and historical works.  While this is an apparently diverse set of topics, important themes connect the essays.  Several essays stress the 'positive' or constructive aspects of Hume's epistemology and theory of mind, an aspect of his thought that recurs strongly in his writings on moral, political, economic, and historical topics.  Several essays stress Hume's uniform emphasis on a 'scientific' methodology in approaching many subjects.  Overall, this volume gives a strong sense of the underlying unity of Hume's work.  All of these essays are at least good.  There are particularly good essays by Norton on Hume's work on morals, Hakonsson's on Hume's political theory, Fogelin on Hume's skepticism, Gaskin on Hume's criticism of religion,and an enlightening essay on Hume's work as a historian.  The other essays are useful. The high quality of these essays makes this book valuable for a broad audience.  It can be read profitably by individuals just exploring Hume and I suspect it would be equally useful for more experienced scholars and teachers.	2004-07-22
580279:US	50676891	R3TBWIB60WCT8C	0345457854	454548172	Coalescent	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Moderately Interesting	The prolific Stephen Baxter returns with a novel about human evolution.  In this book, he develops the idea that human sub-species could develop along the lines of eusocial insects.  This is presented in the form of a thick novel with 2 parallel plot lines. One is a contemporary story about an individual discovering the human hive, the second is essentially a historical novel detailing the events leading to the formation of the hive's precursor.  Baxter is not a particularly gifted writer.  His character development and style is pedestrian.  As is the case with much science fiction, the success of the book resides in the interest of the basic idea.  Baxter has mixed success in this respect.  This is certainly not the first  science fiction novel to deal with the idea of a human eusocial subspecies. Older readers may recall Frank Herbert's Hellstrom's Hive and there are other books with this theme.  Baxter is, however, the first writer who attempts to construct a mechanism for the emergence of a eusocial human subspecies.  He has mixed success. With the two parallel plot lines, he skips from the precursor of the human hive to its finished product.  There aren't any plausible steps in between, just some handwaving that evolution can be rapid.  In a really well written book, this kind of gimicry would be acceptable but in a potboiler like this, its unsatisfying.	2004-07-22
594364:US	50676891	RJE0KE1DQDXXD	0312303289	638226296	The Confession (Eastern Europe Thrillers)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Ambitious But Not Outstanding; 3.5	This is an ambitious attempt to produce a combined psychological novel and Chandleresque mystery novel.  As with all Chandler-type novels, the hero is an alienated individual seeking some kind of truth in a corrupt milieu.  In this case, the corrupt milieu is an Eastern European Communist state.  This is not an original version of the Chandler idea, Martin Cruz Smith did this fairly successfully in Gorky Park and Phillip Kerr has a series of good PI novels set in Nazi Germany.  Steinhauer attempts to combine this style of mystery novel with psychological exploration of the effects of totalitarian rule.  This attempt is not successful.  Steinhauer is a decent writer but presently lacks the skill to bring off a complicated task like this.  The mystery per se suffers from excessively complex plotting and characterization is only moderately good.	2004-07-11
595436:US	50676891	RIO6623MR5QUP	0765301938	457201235	House of Reeds (In The Time of The Sixth Sun)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Adequate Space Opera	An improvement on its predecessor, House of Reeds suffers from Harlan's tendency to construct excessively elaborate plots and use of a large number of relatively shallow characters.  He is continuing to flesh out this fairly enjoyable but implausible future history, which continues to be the best aspect of these books.	2004-07-10
622505:US	50676891	R14V3Q09KCQSEX	0691116202	582549622	Reclaiming the Game: College Sports and Educational Values	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Convincing	A measure of the tortured relationship between higher education and sports is the fact that this is the second substantial book by William Bowen on this topic.  The former President of Princeton and the present head of the Mellon Foundation, Bowen deployed the considerable resources of the Mellon Foundation to address this topic.  The prior book, The Game of Life, was controversial because of conclusions that athletics have had a distorting effect on admissions and academic life at institutions thought to be free of the gross distortions seen at American Universities with scholarship driven athletic programs.  After studying prestigious and very selective schools like the Ivy League universities and smaller schools like Amherst, Williams, and Wesleyan, Bowen and his co-author concluded that athletes enjoyed substantial and unmerited advantages in admissions, tended to relatively underperform academically, and actually had a negative effect on campus life.  There conclusions were assailed, sometimes with some force, on the basis of limited data samples and reliance on anecdotal information.<br />In the present book, Bowen returns with a considerably expanded dataset and a number of new analyses.  The effect is to overwhelmingly confirm the prior conclusions.  While one could probably find defects in some of the individual analyses, Bowen and Levin have done so many evaluations reaching the same conclusions that it is inescapable to conclude that they are correct.  For example, they analyze data from 3 groups of schools with differing admissions policies towards recruited athletes and find a strong correlation between the relative advantage enjoyed by recruited athletes and academic underperformance.  This kind of dose-effect relationship is very strong data.  In addition, the conclusions drawn from their dataset are consonant with qualitative impressions and with the conclusions of independent studies done at individual schools in their dataset.  Bowen and Levin have successfully overcome the challenges of their critics.  A corollary point is that their critics have never offered any substantial data to back the implied claim that athletics produce unique benefits.<br />Bowen and Levin conclude with a series of recommendations for reform which are quite sensible. It has to be mentioned that one of the goals of their reform program is actually to broaden participation in college athletics.  These suggestions should be pursued.<br />Bowen and Levin have a nice discussion of how this unfortunate state of affairs developed.  The problems with athletics at these schools mirror and to some extent are driven by parallel changes in larger society.  As these colleges have come to overvalue athletics, so has youth sports become semi-professionalized.  This has created a typical vicious circle; parents, knowing that good colleges highly value athletics, drive their children down the road of early specialization in a sport and year round competition.  In turn, the strong interest of these types of students in sports at a relatively high level is a partial driver of the overemphasis of college athletics.  Bowen and Levin suggest that restoring balance to college sports would help to break this cycle.  This may be correct and is certainly worth trying.<br />It is worth mentioning in this context that attempting to reverse the overemphasis on college and youth sports has implications beyond education.  Bowen and Levin are particularly concerned with the effects of athletics on education, which is entirely proper.  But, it is very likely that the semi-professionalization of youth sports is a contributing factor to the general decline in fitness occuring in younger Americans.  By the end of elementary school, competitive sports increasingly become the province of a relatively select group of talented children.  Coupled with the declining emphasis on physical education in schools and other relevant phenomena, the result is a large pool of increasingly inactive children.  The long term consequences are likely to be a significant increase in cardiovascular disease and other significant medical problems.ingly inactive children.  The long term consequences are likely to be a significant increase in cardiovascular disease and other significant medical problems.	2004-06-20
623649:US	50676891	R4LBX95KZ80PT	0374205183	500114205	The Path to Victory: The Mediterranean Theater in World War II	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Useful but Uneven: Approximately 3.5 Stars	This is a serious and partly successful attempt to produce a 1 volume history of combat in the Medierranean during WWII.  This is a very ambitious goal.  The Mediterranean theater involved numerous combatants, both major and minor, complex politics, and a variety of campaigns.  The book also includes narrative/discussion of relevant events in the Balkans, Middle East, and East Africa.  Porch aims at providing the basic military/naval history, appropriate background, assessments of the major military and political figures, and even discussion of the aftermath of the war.  Packing all this into 1 book, even a reasonably thick book like this one, is difficult.  It is not surprising that Porch does better with some aspects than others.  The book appears to have been written primarily from secondary sources and I suspect the quality of individual sections depends to some extent on the quality of the sources from which Porch drew for each topic.  Some sections are excellent.  For example, his narrative and assessment of the invasion of Italy and the first year of the Italian campaign is first rate.  An number of other episodes are described equally well.  His descriptions and discussions of the French Army, a subject on which he is an expert, are enlightening.  He does very well in giving a feel for how events in Britain, America, and the Soviet Union interacted with and drove decisions in the Mediterranean.  In a number of other cases, however, he does less well.  His analysis of Franco's behavior is probably incomplete.  He attributes Franco's failure to join the Axis to his native caution, which is partly correct, but intelligent Allied diplomacy (translation: economic blackmail) also played a significant role.  Franco's decision making during WWII is discussed well in Paul Preston's excellent biography of Franco, which Porch does not seem to have utilized.  Similarly, much of his discussion of Mussolini is derived from Dennis Mack Smith's biography, which is considered by many scholars to have been superceded by other work.  A signficant deficiency is that Porch is a bit careless about his narrative.  The narrative doesn't give precise specification of dates, and Porch has a tendency to cut back and forth between episodes.  Readers without a basic familiarity with the war will be confused.  Porch's strategic overviews and discussions of personalities are generally very good but these tend to occupy space at the expense of narrative.  Porch takes considerable pains to emphasize the significance of the campaigns in the Mediterranean.  In contrast to conventional views that the Mediterranean campaigns were a wasteful sideshow, he argues convincingly for their political and military significance.  He repeatedly descibes the Mediterranean theater as &quot;pivotal&quot;, arguing that it was necessary though not sufficient for Allied victory.  His analysis is thoughtful, articulate, and convincing.  It also appears in different forms repeatedly in the book, again at the expense of the narrative.  The final and excellent summary chapter would have been enough.  Porch is generally a competent writer and often a very good writer.  For example, his concise, vivid and ultimately scathing discussion of the failure of Allied military planners to anticipate the needs of the civilian population in Southern Italy is a particularly nice example of historical narrative as rhetoric.d by many scholars to have been superceded by other work.  A signficant deficiency is that Porch is a bit careless about his narrative.  The narrative doesn't give precise specification of dates, and Porch has a tendency to cut back and forth between episodes.  Readers without a basic familiarity with the war will be confused.  Porch's strategic overviews and discussions of personalities are generally very good but these tend to occupy space at the expense of narrative.  Porch takes considerable pains to emphasize the significance of the campaigns in the Mediterranean.  In contrast to conventional views that the Mediterranean campaigns were a wasteful sideshow, he argues convincingly for their political and military significance.  He repeatedly descibes the Mediterranean theater as &quot;pivotal&quot;, arguing that it was necessary though not sufficient for Allied victory.  His analysis is thoughtful, articulate, and convincing.  It also appears in different forms repeatedly in the book, again at the expense of the narrative.  The final and excellent summary chapter would have been enough.  Porch is generally a competent writer and often a very good writer.  For example, his concise, vivid and ultimately scathing discussion of the failure of Allied military planners to anticipate the needs of the civilian population in Southern Italy is a particularly nice example of historical narrative as rhetoric.	2004-06-19
631163:US	50676891	R2PULA6KFIVLUM	1400040949	788802096	The Anatomy of Fascism	Books	4	58	66	N	N	Thoughtful and Thorough Analysis	This very thoughtful book is aimed at understanding the basic features of fascism.  Paxton is very concerned with rescuing the term from its present status as a convenient insult.  As Paxton points out, though not until relatively late in the book, all modern democracies contain nascent fascist elements.  Given the incredibly destructive consequences of successful or even partially successful fascist movements, we should have a good understanding of fascism so as to be able to recognize fascist threats.  Paxton departs somewhat from prior literature in that he does not concentrate on fascist ideology.  Paxton is careful also to look at a broad spectrum of facsist movements, both successful and unsuccessful, rather than falling into the trap of using Nazism as an archetype.  Looking at other features of fascism than ideology makes considerable sense.  Fascist movements had important differences in ideology and fascism in general, with its appeal to intense nationalism and exclusionary sense of identity, shouldn't be expected to have a uniform ideology.  Italian fascism, at least in its original form, lacked the virulent anti-semitism of Nazism, while the fascist movement in Romania was aggessively Christian in ideological content.  Paxton provides instead a structural analysis and definition of fascism by pursuing a careful examination of how fascist movements functioned.  Some of Paxton's important points are Fascism appears in failed or highly stressed democracies, that fascism involves mass politics, that fascism emerges as a reaction to perceived threats from socialism, that fascism depends on charismatic leadership, and that fascism always contains a cult of violent action.  A particularly important point is that the successful fascist movements, Italian Fascism and Nazism, were invited into power by traditional conservative elites seeking to coopt fascist mass mobilization in support of their own ends. In authoritarian societies where the conservative elites were more powerful or confident, such as Spain, Romania, or Hungary, fascist movements were consigned to the sidelines or actually suppressed.  Paxton's analysis is thorough, largely convincing, and based on a remarkable knowledge of the huge literature on this topic.  This is actually an extended essay, 220 pages of text, but the book contains also a superb annotated bibiography and outstanding footnotes which add considerably to the length of the book.<br /><br />I disagree with Paxton on some points.  He describes fascism as the major political innovation of the 20th century, assigning liberalism, socialism, and conservatism to the 19th century.  Perhaps, but I suggest that the Leninist version of Marxism is sufficiently different from 19th century socialism to constitute a new phenomenon in political life.  Paxton states that an essential feature of fascism in power is the existence of parallel governmental structures.  When fascism came to power in Germany and Italy, it did do in presence of intact state structures and civil institutions.  Fascist party organization became a parallel structure of government and way to impose control, often competing with \\"normative\\" government.  This is true but not unique to fascism.  Erection of parallel bureaucracies is a common response of leadership concerned about the reliability of their formal governmental structures.  The considerable expansion of American Presidential power over the last century has been accompanied by expansion of the size and power of the White House staff and its allied structures.  Similarly, when the Qing conquered Ming China, they governed in parallel through both the traditional scholar-bureaucrats and through a parallel system of officials owing direct loyalty to the Qing emperors.  Paxton correctly states that violent action was a necessary component of fascism and that pursuit of war was integral to Nazism and Italian Fascism maintaining their essential momentum and solving internal problems.It is worth noting however, that this is not unique to fascist states.  Authoritarian states have commonly used external aggression as a way of addressing internal problems.  Think of the invasion of the Falklands by the military dictatorship in Argentina or the similarly reckless and self-defeating attempt by the Greek dictators to annex Cyprus.  There is a particularly strong tradition of these types of actions in German history and this was probably one of the causes of the First World War.  Paxton errs also, I think, in downplaying (though not disregarding) the convergent features of fascism in power with Marxist-Leninism in power.  I think the concept of totalitarianism has more power than he is willing to concede.s worth noting however, that this is not unique to fascist states.  Authoritarian states have commonly used external aggression as a way of addressing internal problems.  Think of the invasion of the Falklands by the military dictatorship in Argentina or the similarly reckless and self-defeating attempt by the Greek dictators to annex Cyprus.  There is a particularly strong tradition of these types of actions in German history and this was probably one of the causes of the First World War.  Paxton errs also, I think, in downplaying (though not disregarding) the convergent features of fascism in power with Marxist-Leninism in power.  I think the concept of totalitarianism has more power than he is willing to concede.	2004-06-13
635361:US	50676891	R215AOC9JO7AF9	0441011624	690410292	Red Thunder	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Derivative	The Amazon.com reviewer, Cynthia Ward, is almost correct that this novel is patterned on Robert Heinlein juvenile novels.  This is a considerable understatement.  This book is essentially an updated version of Heinlein's Rocket Ship Galileo.  Strip away the contemporary window dressing and the story is that of a group of talented, and somewhat alienated teens, developing a space craft and beating opponents of America to another component of our solar system.  This is Rocket Ship Galileo.  Varley has also used several of Heinlein's typical plot devices.  Many years ago, an intelligent critic commented that almost of Heinlein's heros are &quot;practical men,&quot; intelligent and capable individuals with useful skills but usually not scientists or intellectuals.  Several of his novels, notably the juvenile novels, are bildungsromans featuring the maturation of a practical man under the guidance of an older mentor.  He used this device in some of his adult novels, including his best book, The Moon is a Harsh Mistress, in which the maturing practical man is a sentient computer system.  This plot device this the central instrument of character development in Red Thunder.  Varley even imitates some of Heinlein's characteristic stylistic methods, including first person narration and the somewhat smart alecky tone of the narration.  Varley is a competent writer and his prior books show that he is capable of considerable imagination.  He can certainly do better than knockoffs like this.	2004-06-10
645116:US	50676891	R2QBK097CVM696	0192836218	942624713	Selected Essays (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Excellent View of Hume	Hume is known today primarily for his seminal philosophical works.  He regarded himself, however, as a man of letters who contributed to many areas and he was known best to his contemporaries as a historian.  This nice collection of essays displays the breadth of Hume's interests and his well developed writing style.  Hume was particularly interested in essays which would bring important topics before a broad public and wrote in an accessible and often entertaining style.  Some of Hume's best known essays on philosophical and religous topics are included in this collection.  What may be of greatest interest are some of the lesser known essays which display both the versatility and the power of Hume's intellect.  Included are essays on economics and international trade, and also some political theory.  Hume was an opponent of mercantilist ideas, supporting the largely correct notion that trade would enrich all parties.  His political theory is particularly interesting.  In contradistinction to the widely accepted ideas of the time, Hume suggested that republican governments could be stable if the size of the republic was large enough to encompass enough competing groups to prevent one from assuming complete control.  It is known that James Madison read Hume in the period leading up to the Constitutional Convention and many scholars suspect that Hume's ideas were the germ of the defense of republicanism/federalism developed by Madison in the Federalist Papers.  A momentous idea with momentous consequences.	2004-06-02
650665:US	50676891	R3VAQMTJXBMI5K	0312266324	52317828	A Place of Execution	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Above Average Procedural	This is a solid police procedural set mainly in early 60s England.  The plotting is ingenious and the quality of writing is good.  The characters are believeable with good attention to historical detail.  Decent entertainment reading.	2004-05-29
652385:US	50676891	R30DMD818SY2U0	1594200092	686377339	Alexander Hamilton	Books	4	9	13	N	N	Excellent Biography	This is an excellent and very sympathetic biography of Alexander Hamilton, arguably the lest known of the great Founding Fathers.  Hamilton's reputation suffered, particularly in the 19th century, because he was an opponent of the Jeffersonian Democrats who triumphed at the beginning of the 19th century,  His premature death in a duel prevented his defense against the rather nasty polemics which continued for decades after this death.  Chernow shows well that Hamilton was a major architect of the American state.  Indeed, Hamilton really anticipated what the USA would become by the end of the 19th century; a mercantile and industrial power with a strong agricultural economy and a meritocratic social/political system.  Chernow traces Hamilton's origins from his origin as an illegitimate child in the West Indies to his prominence in New York legal circles and his career as an officer in the Continental Army.  Hamilton was a brilliant individual who mastered a broad range of subjects with remarkable facility and a supremely efficient administrator.  For a long period, he was essentially Washington's Chief of Staff in the Continental Army and performed prodigious work as the first Secretary of the Treasury.  Chernow treats Hamilton's personal qualities with considerable sympathy and includes a very warm treatment of his family life.  This is not, however, a hagiogpraphy.  Chernow is equally good on Hamilton's failings, notably his impulsivity, excessive pride, and penchant for disastrous political (and sometimes personal) decisions.  As Chernow shows, Hamilton achieved most when he was yoked to someone who exerted a steadying influence.  This is certainly the case for his relationship with Washington but is also true for another important episode of Hamilton's career, his advocacy of constitutional revision.  Here he had a fruitful partnership with Madison, who later became a bitter political enemy.<br />While I am sure this is best modern biography of Hamilton, it falls a bit short of being a really first-rate biography.  The best biographies not only reveal their subject but also provide insights about the time in which the subject lived.  Here Chernow does reasonably well but falls a bit short of being outstanding.  For example, he is very good on the remarkably vicious character of politics in the first decades of the Republic.  He is less good on other important aspects of Hamilton's life and time.  As co-author of the Federalist papers, Hamilton is an important political theorist.  Chernow doesn't provide any insight into where Hamilton lies in the development of Anglo-American political theory.  Similarly, where does Hamilton fit into the contemporary range of economic thought, a subject that clearly occupied his mind considerably.  Its interesting that many of the notable Federalists, like Hamilton, were officers in the Continental Army.  The latter was the first real national institution in American life.  Was this experience crucial for forming Federalism?<br />A final interesting aspect of this biography is that it seems to part of a recurrence of interest in Federalist figures.  The past few years have seen important books on John Adams, and a superb one volume history/analysis of the Federalist period by Elkins and McKitrick.  There has been a simultaneous decline in the reputation of the major opponent of Federalism, Thomas Jefferson.  Is it possible that Americans are once again becoming attracted by the idea of vigorous and progressive central governments?a bit short of being a really first-rate biography.  The best biographies not only reveal their subject but also provide insights about the time in which the subject lived.  Here Chernow does reasonably well but falls a bit short of being outstanding.  For example, he is very good on the remarkably vicious character of politics in the first decades of the Republic.  He is less good on other important aspects of Hamilton's life and time.  As co-author of the Federalist papers, Hamilton is an important political theorist.  Chernow doesn't provide any insight into where Hamilton lies in the development of Anglo-American political theory.  Similarly, where does Hamilton fit into the contemporary range of economic thought, a subject that clearly occupied his mind considerably.  Its interesting that many of the notable Federalists, like Hamilton, were officers in the Continental Army.  The latter was the first real national institution in American life.  Was this experience crucial for forming Federalism?  <BR>A final interesting aspect of this biography is that it seems to part of a recurrence of interest in Federalist figures.  The past few years have seen important books on John Adams, and a superb one volume history/analysis of the Federalist period by Elkins and McKitrick.  There has been a simultaneous decline in the reputation of the major opponent of Federalism, Thomas Jefferson.  Is it possible that Americans are once again becoming attracted by the idea of vigorous and progressive central governments?	2004-05-27
674874:US	50676891	R366PBGT765I9C	0691116938	286723052	Alternatives to Hitler: German Resistance under the Third Reich	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Interesting but Very Specialized	This is an extended essay on the ideology of a subset of the German resistance to Hitler.  Readers looking for a clear narrative should seek elsewhere.  In order to read this book you already have to know the basic story of the resistance and have some knowledge of its principal members.  Mommsen investigates the ideas and motivations of the non-Communist resistance.  This rather small group of individuals was drawn largely from a section of the German upper classes, primarily higher ranking civil servants and officers, often with aristocratic connections.  That this small group represented the major internal opposition to Hitler is a testimony to several factors, among them the great success of the Nazis in dominating almost all aspects of society and essentially abolishing the independence of most major social organizations.  The Nazis retained some respect for traditional, particularly elitist, conservatives and dissent in these quarters was not pursued the way it was among, for example, working class socialists.  The great military success of the Nazi regime made it difficult to recruit allies in the Armed Services or other important sectors of society.  The non-Communist resistance was also characteristically conservative in their almost uniform dislike for the Weimer Republic and their suspicion of pluralistic democracy.  Many of them pursued utopian ideas of a 'third' way between socialism and capitalism, ideas which often had strong elements of paternalism and authoritarianism.  Many of them were at least conventionally anti-Semitic and motivated less by the horrible crimes perpetrated against the Jews than by the corrupting effects such actions had on non-Jewish Germans.  While many of their social plans have a distinctly romantic and unrealistic flavor, Mommsen makes the point that it was the ability of the resisters to imagine social alternatives that provided considerable impetus to their corollary ability to actually make plans to remove Hitler.  Mommsen also shows the overlap between these very principled resisters and a sometimes allied group of fellow traveling officers and Nazi officials who drifted in and out of the orbit of the core resisters. It was, ultimately, these (to us) rather odd idealists who actually tried to overthrow the Third Reich, an action they undertook with the knowledge that failure was likely.  Many of them displayed great physical as well as moral courage.  They failed, however, to overthrow Hitler, and almost nothing of what they desired for Germany was realized in the post-war Federal Republic.n also shows the overlap between these very principled resisters and a sometimes allied group of fellow traveling officers and Nazi officials who drifted in and out of the orbit of the core resisters. It was, ultimately, these (to us) rather odd idealists who actually tried to overthrow the Third Reich, an action they undertook with the knowledge that failure was likely.  Many of them displayed great physical as well as moral courage.  They failed, however, to overthrow Hitler, and almost nothing of what they desired for Germany was realized in the post-war Federal Republic.	2004-05-09
688875:US	50676891	R2V6KWQI1WK9D	0765345005	813218222	Hominids: Volume One of The Neanderthal Parallax	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Solid	This is an interesting twist on the parallel worlds theme.  In this book, the inadvertant consequences of an experiment in quantum computing propels one of the experimenters from his world to ours.  The catch is that the scientist is a Neanderthal and comes from a world line in which Homo sapiens died out and Neanderthals became the dominant hominid species.  Most of the book is devoted to an implicit comparison between Neanderthal culture and ours.  Neaderthals are not religous, have a strong sense of duty/ethics, very tolerant in many important respects, largely non-violent, egalitarian, and environmentally oriented.  Neanderthal society is a sort of updated Enlightenment rationalistic utopia.  This is fairly well done but a bit predictable.  The author, Robert Sawyer, is a Canadian.  This book, like most of his work, is set in Canada.  An amusing way to think about this book is to view it as an allegory of the differences between Canadians and Americans.	2004-04-28
695916:US	50676891	R2WO058LYJEZDE	0226354792	640841047	The Political Culture of the American Whigs	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Illuminating; 4.5 Stars Appropriate	This well written book is a group portrait of the Whig party/movement.  The Whigs were one of the components of the &quot;second American party system.&quot;  Following the demise of the Federalist party in the early 19th century, the Whigs emerged as an amalgam of former Federalists, Madisonian Democrats, and other groups opposed to the dominance of the Jacksonian Democratic Party.  The Whigs existed as an important part of American life until the party fell apart under the dual stresses imposed by the crisis over slavery and territorial expansion.<br />Daniel Waler Howe's approach is to present a series of biographical sketches of major Whig figures, with one or two figures illustrating different important aspects of the Whig movement.  The figures discussed include individuals who are still known well, such as John Quincy Adams and Henry Clay, and less well known individuals like the preacher Lyman Beecher and the economic theorist Henry Carey.  This is not a narrative history but a thematic exploration of the ideology and motivations of the Whig movement.  Walker Howe's emphasis is not solely on political history, though he provides ample and excellent analysis of the political contributions of the Whigs, but also on how the Whigs reflected and channeled larger currents in American life.<br />The Whigs were both a political party and representatives of a broader movement aimed at reforming American society.  Like all such movements, they were a coalition of different groups.  A common theme among Whig partisans was a effort to reform American life and an interest in using governmental institutions to effect some of those changes.  Whigs supported tariff barriers to encourage diversification of American industries, internal improvements like public highways and canals (what we now call infrastructure), a central bank, and public education.  Psychologically, Walker Howe shows that many important Whigs the goal of social improvement mirrored, or perhaps reflected, an equivalent preoccupation with personal transformation.  Whiggery, however, had a strong paternalistic element and some of their concerns reflect upper class fears of losing social control.  Many of the Whigs were directly or indirectly connected to the Second Great Awakening of evangelism in the early 19th century, which had a particularly optimistic theology and tended to promote reform movements of various types.  The religous spirit of the Second Great Awakening tended also to promote belief in the powerful Victorian notions of progress, which is a strong element of Whig ideology.<br />Walker Howe presents many of the Whigs as very attractive figures.  Many Whig leaders were anti-slavery and some were actually abolitionship in sentiment. Some prominent Whigs attempted to defend the Southern Indians from the vicious actions of the Jackson administration.  Walker Howe may, however, present too rosy a picture of the Whigs.  The Whigs were at times allies with nativist elements whose anti-immigrant policies and religous bigotry were repulsive.<br />Overall, this is a very valuable book.  As Walker Howe points out, traditional historical interpretations of this period have tended to focus on the Jacksonian Democrats.  Walker Howe's attempt to rectify the balance is very successful.equivalent preoccupation with personal transformation.  Whiggery, however, had a strong paternalistic element and some of their concerns reflect upper class fears of losing social control.  Many of the Whigs were directly or indirectly connected to the Second Great Awakening of evangelism in the early 19th century, which had a particularly optimistic theology and tended to promote reform movements of various types.  The religous spirit of the Second Great Awakening tended also to promote belief in the powerful Victorian notions of progress, which is a strong element of Whig ideology.  <BR>Walker Howe presents many of the Whigs as very attractive figures.  Many Whig leaders were anti-slavery and some were actually abolitionship in sentiment. Some prominent Whigs attempted to defend the Southern Indians from the vicious actions of the Jackson administration.  Walker Howe may, however, present too rosy a picture of the Whigs.  The Whigs were at times allies with nativist elements whose anti-immigrant policies and religous bigotry were repulsive. <BR>Overall, this is a very valuable book.  As Walker Howe points out, traditional historical interpretations of this period have tended to focus on the Jacksonian Democrats.  Walker Howe's attempt to rectify the balance is very successful.	2004-04-22
703074:US	50676891	R3MJULKXVNADEV	067401023X	235261394	Darwin and Design: Does Evolution Have a Purpose?	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Good Synthesis	Another interesting and well written book by Michael Ruse.  In this book, Ruse explores the nature and role of teleological thinking about the natural world in the development of evolutionary theory.  As well, he investigates the status of teleological thinking related to the natural world in relation to theology.  In a shorthand way, this is concise history and commentary on the famous argument from design, one of the classis 'proofs' of the existence of a beneficient deity.  Ruse decomposes the argument from design into 2 components, the argument to complexity and the argument to design.  The former is a conclusion that aspects of the biological world have elements of goal directed function, analogous to conscious design.  The latter argument is then that the existence of purposeful complexity is evidence for a deity.<br />Ruse provides a nice, concise history of different aspects of these arguments, starting with Plato and Aristotle, and moving through major Christian theologians.  He then moves into the major skeptical assaults on the argument from design using Hume as the paradigmatic thinker, and the responses of a variety of thinkers, including the English theologian Paley and Kant.<br />Ruse provides a nice analysis of how concerns with the argument to complexity and the complete argument from design informed and inspired the search for greater understanding of the living world.  This culminates, somewhat ironically, in Darwin and Wallace's discovery of the ideas of evolution and selective forces driving evolution.  Not surprisingly, given Ruse's stature as an excellent historian of biology, he provides a really nice concise history of the development of Darwin's ideas and carries the story of the ups and downs of the importance of selectionist ideas into the 20th century.  This is very well done.  Ruse is also particularly good on some aspects of 19th century philosophy of science and theology, particularly Anglican theology, which are intertwined with the development of evolutionary theory in interesting ways.<br />Ruse ends up with a fairly orthodox, Darwin based view of the argument from design.  The argument to complexity is affirmed based on natural selection but the argument to design is firmly but gently thrown into the garbage.<br />The book concludes with a section on the reconciliation of Christion (or theistic beliefs in general) with a scientifically valid view of nature.  Ruse's usually solid grasp of logic slips here somewhat.  It is not particularly convincing, and unlike most of his work, is not written clearly.development of evolutionary theory in interesting ways.  <BR>Ruse ends up with a fairly orthodox, Darwin based view of the argument from design.  The argument to complexity is affirmed based on natural selection but the argument to design is firmly but gently thrown into the garbage.<BR>The book concludes with a section on the reconciliation of Christion (or theistic beliefs in general) with a scientifically valid view of nature.  Ruse's usually solid grasp of logic slips here somewhat.  It is not particularly convincing, and unlike most of his work, is not written clearly.	2004-04-17
703468:US	50676891	R2N8HXAFK1SJWY	0679744754	26336400	Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001	Books	4	18	23	N	N	Evenhanded and Thorough	This well written and organized book is an effort to provide a fair narrative history of the Zionist/Israeli-Arab/Palestinian conflicts.  It is based largely on secondary sources and published documents and not on any extensive archival research.  As pointed out by the author, the Israeli historian Benny Morris, there is considerably more documentation available for the Zionists/Israelis.  Indeed, much of what Morris can tell us about the Arab/Palestinian side comes from Zionist/Israeli sources.  Morris, however, interprets material carefully and this is generally an evenhanded book.<br />As can be seen from prior reviews, individual reviewer reactions are influenced by prior conceptions of the Israeli/Palestinian conflict.  I am impressed that much of the book is devoted to debunking Zionist mythology.  Some examples.  Many, if not all Zionist leaders, including most of the founders of the state of Israel, were aware that construction of a Zionist state would require dispossesion of the native Arab populations.  The British Mandate was largely beneficial for the Zionists.  In the wars of 1947-1948, the Zionists enjoyed significant advantages. While there is less written about the Arabs/Palestinians, several important themes emerge.  Palestinian national consciousness is largely a result of the confrontation with Zionism.  The Palestinians suffered from incredibly poor leadership.  Some of the Palestinian problems, particularly their poor leadership, is a product of the fact that Palestinian society was essentially pre-modern in social and political organization.  The Palestinians have been treated poorly by Arab states.<br />This book is particularly useful for episodes that Americans are unlikely to be familiar with.  The 1973 war is described well, including the near victory of the Syrians in the north of Israel.  The invasion and occupation of Lebanon, ultimately the only real defeat ever suffered by the Israeli armed forces, is  very well described and analyzed.<br />While I think Morris is correct on broad outlines and is generally fair to both sides, I think he is wrong on some specific points.  He suggests that Israeli decision makers misinterpreted Arab nation intentions prior to the 1967 war and that it was avoidable.  Michael Oren's recent and very good book on this subject, published after the publication of Morris's book, emphasizes the aggressive intentions of the Arab states and the difficult but probably correct decision made by the Eshkol cabinet to initiate hostitilies.  Similarly, Morris states that the US become unswervingly committed to Israel during the Kennedy administration.  It is probably closer to the truth to see considerable deepening of the US commitment to Israel as a consequence of the great success in the 1967 war.<br />Overall, this is the best historical introduction to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and really useful for understanding the genesis of the present and very complex state of affairs.<BR>While I think Morris is correct on broad outlines and is generally fair to both sides, I think he is wrong on some specific points.  He suggests that Israeli decision makers misinterpreted Arab nation intentions prior to the 1967 war and that it was avoidable.  Michael Oren's recent and very good book on this subject, published after the publication of Morris's book, emphasizes the aggressive intentions of the Arab states and the difficult but probably correct decision made by the Eshkol cabinet to initiate hostitilies.  Similarly, Morris states that the US become unswervingly committed to Israel during the Kennedy administration.  It is probably closer to the truth to see considerable deepening of the US commitment to Israel as a consequence of the great success in the 1967 war.  <BR>Overall, this is the best historical introduction to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and really useful for understanding the genesis of the present and very complex state of affairs.	2004-04-16
705943:US	50676891	R1OCXQFIY0ECYG	0803213271	306997290	The Origins of the Final Solution: The Evolution of Nazi Jewish Policy, September 1939-March 1942 (Comprehensive History of the Holocaust)	Books	5	55	59	N	N	Superb Scholarship; Dispiriting Reading	This important book is a detailed narrative and analysis of how the Nazis came to pursue the systematic extermination of the European Jews.  It is aimed at summarizing and clarifying approximately 2 generations worth of scholarship on this aspect of the Holocaust and distilling it into an accessible form.  Written primarily by Christopher Browning with contributions from the German scholar Jugen Matthaus, this very well written and organized book is entirely successful in achieving its aims.<br />The Holocaust, at least in its final form, was an improvisation.  There is no doubt that virulent anti-Semitism was a core feature of Nazi ideology and that elimination of Jews from any society dominated by the Nazis was an essential goal of the Nazis.  In the years prior to WWII, the chosen instruments, however, were legal discrimination, coercion but not mass murder, and intense pressure to force Jews to emigrate from Germany.  As with other aspects of Hitler's goals and policies, he and his underlings had not thought ahead as to how they would realize their ultimate objective of purging German (and European) society of Jews.  The great success of the German military in 1939-1941 acted as a spur and radicalizing force in Nazi Jewish policy.  The conquest of Poland, and later much of the Soviet Union, with their large populations of Jews, meant that the prewar solutions were inadequate.  What followed were a set of expedients; forced emigration and starvation, ghettoization and starvation, mass executions by shootings, and early experiments with mass murder by gassing.  Flushed with apparent victory in the fall of 1941, Hitler and his minions made the decision that none of the previous measures were satisfactory and embarked on the policy of developing extermination camps.<br />Browning and Matthaus not only chart the development of these measures and provide judicious analyses of the available data on how and when decisions were made by the Nazis, they also provide great and important detail on the context in which decisions occurred.  The development of mass murder by gassing, for example, occurred in the Nazi eugenic campaigns, another aspect of their ideology of 'racial hygiene.'  The murderous campaigns against Jews in occupied Poland are set in the context of the German effort to reduce Polish society to a rural proletariat that would be used as a source of cheap labor for the Reich.  Yet another aspect of racial hygiene and part of the Nazi effort to guarantee Lebensraum in Eastern Europe.  Indeed, the Nazi campaign against Jews is comprehensible only as part of a broader racist ideology and effort to obtain lebensraum.  The Jews, unfortunately for them, occupying the central place in the Nazi demonology.<br />Several other important issues are dealt with.  The complicity of the German Armed Forces.  The role of public opinion in Germany.  The competition between those of the Nazis who wished to proceed directly to murder and those who wished to extract some economic value prior to murder.  The \\"polycratic\\" nature of the Nazi state and Hitler's decision making methods.  All of these important topics are analyzed thoughtfully.<br />In many respects, this important book is profoundly dispiriting.  Many portions are simply painful to read.  This book makes clear the incredibly destructive consequences of ideologies demonizing other human beings and provides considerable insight into how such acts occur.t and important detail on the context in which decisions occurred.  The development of mass murder by gassing, for example, occurred in the Nazi eugenic campaigns, another aspect of their ideology of 'racial hygiene.'  The murderous campaigns against Jews in occupied Poland are set in the context of the German effort to reduce Polish society to a rural proletariat that would be used as a source of cheap labor for the Reich.  Yet another aspect of racial hygiene and part of the Nazi effort to guarantee Lebensraum in Eastern Europe.  Indeed, the Nazi campaign against Jews is comprehensible only as part of a broader racist ideology and effort to obtain lebensraum.  The Jews, unfortunately for them, occupying the central place in the Nazi demonology.  <BR>Several other important issues are dealt with.  The complicity of the German Armed Forces.  The role of public opinion in Germany.  The competition between those of the Nazis who wished to proceed directly to murder and those who wished to extract some economic value prior to murder.  The \\"polycratic\\" nature of the Nazi state and Hitler's decision making methods.  All of these important topics are analyzed thoughtfully.  <BR>In many respects, this important book is profoundly dispiriting.  Many portions are simply painful to read.  This book makes clear the incredibly destructive consequences of ideologies demonizing other human beings and provides considerable insight into how such acts occur.	2004-04-15
716209:US	50676891	R3PPSSR4NL77S	0521568595	908686078	Agricultural Revolution in England: The Transformation of the Agrarian Economy 1500-1850 (Cambridge Studies in Historical Geography)	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Focused and Substantial Scholarship	Overton aims at answering a set of focused but important questions.  Was there an 'Agricultural Revolution', a relatively discrete and identifiable period of marked improvement in agricultural output, in Britain.  If so, when?  If so, of what did it consist?  What were its social corollaries?  In the clearly written and very well documented book, Overton provides sensible answers.<br />Overton points out that Britain escaped a 'Malthusian trap' by boosting agricultural output hugely with increasing labor productivity, providing excess food to feed an expanding population and providing the extra population and food needed to support the conversion to an industrial economy.  The key period is the century from 1750 to 1850.  A series of technological and managerial innovations made this burst of productivity possible, many if not all introduced into or developed in Britain prior to the crucial century.  The period after 1750, however, sees the integration of these methods into a powerfully synergistic whole.<br />Driving forces for these developments were the expansion of national markets for crops and increasing monetarization of the rural economy.  All of these processes were accompanied by and reinforced by marked social changes including the decline of relatively self-sufficient farmers and villages, marked changes in land tenure patterns, and the emergence of a tripartite rural social system of landowners, tenant farmers, and a large body of landless laborers.  Many of these processes were in train prior to 1750 but the period after that sees an acceleration of social change.<br />Overton is focused on Britain but surely this story has general implications.	2004-04-07
720898:US	50676891	RBRS7HN7JZK6H	0765307979	271600477	Glass Dragons (The Moonworlds Saga)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Entertaining	The second book in a fantasy series by the imaginative and fairly funny Sean McmMullen.  Set in a parallel world with somewhat different kinds of humans and magic as a form of technology.  This is a better book than the first book in the series, Voyage of the Shadowmoon.  Glass Dragons has a more focused plot, a smaller cast of characters, and more dramatic integrity than Voyage of the Shadowmoon.  Most of the characters are carryovers from the first book and a limitation of this book is that it is more enjoyable if you've slogged through the first book.  It also has a similar theme to the first book.  A large scale and destructive magical device is created and the book is about efforts to destroy it.  This is McMullen's recurrent theme, the dangers of attempting large scale manipulation of the natural world, which appears in this series and also in a slightly different way in his prior Greatwinter trilogy.  Despite the joky tone of his writing, it appears that McMullen is producing books that are, in part, allegorical commentaries on the dangers of modern attempts to control the natural world.	2004-04-03
728016:US	50676891	R1SP6VCAHAQAOT	0374166447	82302003	The Great Fire: A Novel	Books	3	20	23	N	N	Over-rated	This is an ambitious but ultimately unsuccessful novel.  The theme is the effort to recapture life after the chaos and destruction of WWII.  The answer appears to be love, particularly a sort of very romanticized, relatively selfless form of romantic love.  The primary character is a British writer in love with a teenage girl.  His character is contrasted with a friend who is also searching for some authenticity in his life.  The theme is certainly worthwhile.<br />Unfortunately, while Hazzard is certainly a skillful writer, her skills are deployed in a way that makes this book unattractive.  Her highly allusive prose has a generally flat quality and becomes monotonous despite her attempts to engage a variety of characters and situations.  Her characters and not particularly engaging, a major defect in a novel with a large psychological component.	2004-03-29
734408:US	50676891	ROSS568M03QW8	0304352853	126628109	Achtung - Panzer! (Cassell Military Classics)	Books	3	17	20	N	N	Surprisingly Interesting	Heavy armored columns accompanied by motorized infantry and artillery punch through static defenses and take advantage of the limited mobility of their opponents to make deep penetrations into the enemy's rear areas.  Indispensable for the attack is close air support providing considerable firepower and crucial intelligence.  All is bound together by cutting edge communications technology.<br />The American Army in Iraq?  Correct.  But originally the German Panzer divisions in Poland, France, and the Soviet Union.  While the Pentagon trumpets the innovative nature of their strategy and tactics in Iraq, it is actually just the logical extension of the combined forces approach that is the bedrock doctrine of land warfare since the opening of days of WWII.  If the combined forces approach is gospel, then Heinz Guderian was its greatest prophet.<br />This book, written primarily to promote Guderian's views among his fellow German officers, was an important element in establishing the Panzer Division as the cutting edge of the German Army.  It is important to realize that this book was not written for general audiences but is rather a case book type analysis aimed at convincing other officers of the absolute necessity of Guderian's approach.  It contains, consequently, a close analysis of several WWI engagements aimed at demonstrating the futility of traditional infantry/artillery based attacking tactics complemented by careful analysis of early attempts to use armor.  These occupy most of the book.  It concludes with relatively brief sections on Guderian's own views of how offensive warfare should be conducted.  Guderian spent a good part of the inter-war period teaching military history and this book provides evidence that he was an experienced pedagogue.  The analyses are well organized and presently clearly.  The cumulative effect is a powerful indictment of traditional tactics and a powerful argument in favor of armor using the combined forces approach.  Guderian was clearly very intelligent and a competent writer.  Guderian has become something of an iconic figure because of his effective and apparently prophetic advocacy of the combined forces approach.  A component of his reputation rests on the fact that he was perhaps the only prominent military theorist who was also a very successful field commander.  It is important to realize, however, that Guderian's insights were not unique.  Intelligent veterans of WWI in all the major combatant nations were pursuing alternatives to the static tactics of WWI and a number of these individuals produced influential writings in the interwar period.  Guderian drew extensively on this literature in writing Achtung Panzer.<br />This book is also inadvertantly revealing in several other important respects.  The opening section of the book rehearses general arguments for why the German Army needed a new approach to offensive tactics.  These 'geopolitical' arguments are the cliches of political and strategic thinking from the pre-WWI period, when Guderian was a young officer.  They assume that war between European states is inevitable and that for Germany, the only option was rapid victory, hence the need for punishingly effective offensive tactics.  In these important aspects, Guderian never seems to have escaped the conventional ideas of his youth.  This is hardly surprising, Guderian was a General Staff officer during WWI and chosen as one of the select few to continue in the regular officer Corps in the interwar period.  These are marks of demonstrated competence and promise but no one with really unconventional ideas about politics or strategy would have been selected for the General Staff or interwar Army by the notably reactionary leaders of the German Army, a group who wished to restore the essentials of the Wilhelmine state.<br />To be fair to Guderian, this book does contain an implicit admission that the German Army was defeated on the Western Front.  This conclusion is in contrastto the pernicious 'stab in the back' myth of domestic betrayal (by the Social Democrats and other left wing political parties) propagated by the Army leadership during the 20s and early 30s.  Such honesty was probably possible only after Hitler's accession to power and when German rearmarment was safely underway.the pernicious 'stab in the back' myth of domestic betrayal (by the Social Democrats and other left wing political parties) propagated by the Army leadership during the 20s and early 30s.  Such honesty was probably possible only after Hitler's accession to power and when German rearmarment was safely underway.	2004-03-24
741020:US	50676891	RH9W3G6SFZYA7	0679879242	994627826	The Golden Compass (His Dark Materials)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Joint Review of His Dark Materials	The point of departure for this truly creative fantasy/parallel worlds trilogy is an inversion of Milton's Paradise Lost.  In the latter, Milton presented a poetic account and justification of the divine plan for the Universe.  In Pullman's books, the Miltonic version is a distorted view of real events.  In the Universe created by Pullman, a powerful angelic force, the Authority, claimed power over the previously created Universe and has been abusing this power for millennia to keep humanity (and other sentient species) in a form of bondage.  This bondage ramifies throughout an virtually infinite number of parallel worlds.  This trilogy describes a revolt against the Authority and its overthrow.  The principle characters are 2 children, one from our world and one from a closely related parallel world with mixed features of the 20th century and Victorian Europe.  The initial plot strand concerns efforts to understand a mysterious component of the Universe called Dust or Dark Energy.  The following complicated plot is essentially a coming of age story as the two children encounter many exotic features of their and related worlds.  The plot incorporates elements of Paradise Lost and the Garden of Eden myth.<br />The quality of writing in these books is superb.  A host of interesting characters and high quality prose.  Pullman's imagination is remarkable.  He has essentially developed a whole new mythology incorporating elements of modern science, religious allegory, and modern history.  Perhaps the only flaw is that he may have packed too much into the final and concluding book of the trilogy, which is an interesting compound of Armageddon, Ragnorak, and the Garden of Eden story.<br />These books have produced some controversy as some feel that they are anti-religious, even specifically anti-Christian.  Pullman has denied this interpretation and suggested that the books are an allegorical attack on all forms of dogmatism and authoritarianism.  This disclaimer seems disingenuous.  One thing that Pullman very clearly attacks is the idea that there is a separate soul distinct from the body.  An important and at times poetically presented component of these books is the idea that humans are an intrinsic, not separate component, of the natural world.  Pullman actually presents a pantheistic view of the world with consciousness an immanent and emergent part of the natural world and humans (and other sentients) as particular extensions of this aspect of the natural world.  He also allegorically criticizes human attempts to overwhelmingly control the natural world.  Whatever he states, these views are a trenchant criticism of any world view resting on the idea of separate and eternal souls.ingenuous.  One thing that Pullman very clearly attacks is the idea that there is a separate soul distinct from the body.  An important and at times poetically presented component of these books is the idea that humans are an intrinsic, not separate component, of the natural world.  Pullman actually presents a pantheistic view of the world with consciousness an immanent and emergent part of the natural world and humans (and other sentients) as particular extensions of this aspect of the natural world.  He also allegorically criticizes human attempts to overwhelmingly control the natural world.  Whatever he states, these views are a trenchant criticism of any world view resting on the idea of separate and eternal souls.	2004-03-18
742049:US	50676891	R3PHLJQAY5CUX8	0679879242	994627826	The Golden Compass (His Dark Materials)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Joint Review of His Dark Materials	The point of departure for this truly creative fantasy/parallel worlds trilogy is an inversion of Milton's Paradise Lost.  In the latter, Milton presented a poetic account and justification of the divine plan for the Universe.  In Pullman's books, the Miltonic version is a distorted view of real events.  In the Universe created by Pullman, a powerful angelic force, the Authority, claimed power over the previously created Universe and has been abusing this power for millennia to keep humanity (and other sentient species) in a form of bondage.  This bondage ramifies throughout an virtually infinite number of parallel worlds.  This trilogy describes a revolt against the Authority and its overthrow.  The principle characters are 2 children, one from our world and one from a closely related parallel world with mixed features of the 20th century and Victorian Europe.  The initial plot strand concerns efforts to understand a mysterious component of the Universe called Dust or Dark Energy.  The following complicated plot is essentially a coming of age story as the two children encounter many exotic features of their and related worlds.  The plot incorporates elements of Paradise Lost and the Garden of Eden myth.  <BR>The quality of writing in these books is superb.  A host of interesting characters and high quality prose.  Pullman's imagination is remarkable.  He has essentially developed a whole new mythology incorporating elements of modern science, religious allegory, and modern history.  Perhaps the only flaw is that he may have packed too much into the final and concluding book of the trilogy, which is an interesting compound of Armageddon, Ragnorak, and the Garden of Eden story.  <BR>These books have produced some controversy as some feel that they are anti-religious, even specifically anti-Christian.  Pullman has denied this interpretation and suggested that the books are an allegorical attack on all forms of dogmatism and authoritarianism.  This disclaimer seems disingenuous.  One thing that Pullman very clearly attacks is the idea that there is a separate soul distinct from the body.  An important and at times poetically presented component of these books is the idea that humans are an intrinsic, not separate component, of the natural world.  Pullman actually presents a pantheistic view of the world with consciousness an immanent and emergent part of the natural world and humans (and other sentients) as particular extensions of this aspect of the natural world.  He also allegorically criticizes human attempts to overwhelmingly control the natural world.  Whatever he states, these views are a trenchant criticism of any world view resting on the idea of separate and eternal souls.	2004-03-17
742615:US	50676891	RZ6FRG3E2YSPZ	0345413377	731430286	The Amber Spyglass (His Dark Materials, Book 3)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Joint Review of His Joint Materials	The point of departure for this truly creative fantasy/parallel worlds trilogy is an inversion of Milton's Paradise Lost.  In the latter, Milton presented a poetic account and justification of the divine plan for the Universe.  In Pullman's books, the Miltonic version is a distorted view of real events.  In the Universe created by Pullman, a powerful angelic force, the Authority, claimed power over the previously created Universe and has been abusing this power for millennia to keep humanity (and other sentient species) in a form of bondage.  This bondage ramifies throughout an virtually infinite number of parallel worlds.  This trilogy describes a revolt against the Authority and its overthrow.  The principle characters are 2 children, one from our world and one from a closely related parallel world with mixed features of the 20th century and Victorian Europe.  The initial plot strand concerns efforts to understand a mysterious component of the Universe called Dust or Dark Energy.  The following complicated plot is essentially a coming of age story as the two children encounter many exotic features of their and related worlds.  The plot incorporates elements of Paradise Lost and the Garden of Eden myth.<br />The quality of writing in these books is superb.  A host of interesting characters and high quality prose.  Pullman's imagination is remarkable.  He has essentially developed a whole new mythology incorporating elements of modern science, religious allegory, and modern history.  Perhaps the only flaw is that he may have packed too much into the final and concluding book of the trilogy, which is an interesting compound of Armageddon, Ragnorak, and the Garden of Eden story.<br />These books have produced some controversy as some feel that they are anti-religious, even specifically anti-Christian.  Pullman has denied this interpretation and suggested that the books are an allegorical attack on all forms of dogmatism and authoritarianism.  This disclaimer seems disingenuous.  One thing that Pullman very clearly attacks is the idea that there is a separate soul distinct from the body.  An important and at times poetically presented component of these books is the idea that humans are an intrinsic, not separate component, of the natural world.  Pullman actually presents a pantheistic view of the world with consciousness an immanent and emergent part of the natural world and humans (and other sentients) as particular extensions of this aspect of the natural world.  He also allegorically criticizes human attempts to overwhelmingly control the natural world.  Whatever he states, these views are a trenchant criticism of any world view resting on the idea of separate and eternal souls.ingenuous.  One thing that Pullman very clearly attacks is the idea that there is a separate soul distinct from the body.  An important and at times poetically presented component of these books is the idea that humans are an intrinsic, not separate component, of the natural world.  Pullman actually presents a pantheistic view of the world with consciousness an immanent and emergent part of the natural world and humans (and other sentients) as particular extensions of this aspect of the natural world.  He also allegorically criticizes human attempts to overwhelmingly control the natural world.  Whatever he states, these views are a trenchant criticism of any world view resting on the idea of separate and eternal souls.	2004-03-17
742802:US	50676891	R35RKC5MHUB50D	044041833X	872660777	The Subtle Knife: His Dark Materials	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Joint Review of His Dark Materials	The point of departure for this truly creative fantasy/parallel worlds trilogy is an inversion of Milton's Paradise Lost.  In the latter, Milton presented a poetic account and justification of the divine plan for the Universe.  In Pullman's books, the Miltonic version is a distorted view of real events.  In the Universe created by Pullman, a powerful angelic force, the Authority, claimed power over the previously created Universe and has been abusing this power for millennia to keep humanity (and other sentient species) in a form of bondage.  This bondage ramifies throughout an virtually infinite number of parallel worlds.  This trilogy describes a revolt against the Authority and its overthrow.  The principle characters are 2 children, one from our world and one from a closely related parallel world with mixed features of the 20th century and Victorian Europe.  The initial plot strand concerns efforts to understand a mysterious component of the Universe called Dust or Dark Energy.  The following complicated plot is essentially a coming of age story as the two children encounter many exotic features of their and related worlds.  The plot incorporates elements of Paradise Lost and the Garden of Eden myth.<br />The quality of writing in these books is superb.  A host of interesting characters and high quality prose.  Pullman's imagination is remarkable.  He has essentially developed a whole new mythology incorporating elements of modern science, religious allegory, and modern history.  Perhaps the only flaw is that he may have packed too much into the final and concluding book of the trilogy, which is an interesting compound of Armageddon, Ragnorak, and the Garden of Eden story.<br />These books have produced some controversy as some feel that they are anti-religious, even specifically anti-Christian.  Pullman has denied this interpretation and suggested that the books are an allegorical attack on all forms of dogmatism and authoritarianism.  This disclaimer seems disingenuous.  One thing that Pullman very clearly attacks is the idea that there is a separate soul distinct from the body.  An important and at times poetically presented component of these books is the idea that humans are an intrinsic, not separate component, of the natural world.  Pullman actually presents a pantheistic view of the world with consciousness an immanent and emergent part of the natural world and humans (and other sentients) as particular extensions of this aspect of the natural world.  He also allegorically criticizes human attempts to overwhelmingly control the natural world.  Whatever he states, these views are a trenchant criticism of any world view resting on the idea of separate and eternal souls.ingenuous.  One thing that Pullman very clearly attacks is the idea that there is a separate soul distinct from the body.  An important and at times poetically presented component of these books is the idea that humans are an intrinsic, not separate component, of the natural world.  Pullman actually presents a pantheistic view of the world with consciousness an immanent and emergent part of the natural world and humans (and other sentients) as particular extensions of this aspect of the natural world.  He also allegorically criticizes human attempts to overwhelmingly control the natural world.  Whatever he states, these views are a trenchant criticism of any world view resting on the idea of separate and eternal souls.	2004-03-17
754966:US	50676891	R1A92IDV2CUDEN	1400041414	10533115	The Murder Room (Adam Dalgliesh Mystery Series #12)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A Bit Disappointing	James best books are psychological novels in a crime setting.  In the very best of them, she combines clever plotting, a high level of writing and characterization, and sustained examination of a particular psychological theme.  In none of these categories does James approach her best work.  In most respects, this is a fairly standard mystery with above average writing.  I suspect James was aiming at attacking a particular psychological theme, the idea of secret or hidden lives, but this aspect is not developed well.  This would be a good effort for most mystery writers but not close to James best novels.	2004-03-08
757646:US	50676891	ROA4AHVE7ZL8I	0781717175	971087004	Focal Peripheral Neuropathies	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Authoritative and Readable	This fine book is an excellent reference volume on peripheral nerve injuries.  It is organized in an anatomically topical manner with chapters covering all major divisions of the peripheral nervous system.  Each chapter reviews the anatomy of that division (eg, brachial plexus, median nerve, etc), the clinical phenomenology and pathology of characteristic nerve injuries, diagnosis, clinical electrophysiology, and management.  It is written clearly and organized well with good illustrations.  This book is my chosen reference when dealing with focal peripheral nerve problems.  I haven't seen a competitor volume that is as comprehensive or as clear.  Recommended as a component of the standard bookshelf of all neurologists.	2004-03-05
766580:US	50676891	RMWYXGM104RXS	1594200041	518829493	The Coming of the Third Reich	Books	5	20	26	N	N	Excellent	This book is the first volume of a projected 3 volume history of the Third Reich.  This volume traces the roots of the Nazi state in Wilhelmine Germany, the horrendous aftermath of WWI, the tragic and complicated history of the Weimar Republic, and actual accession to and seizure of power by the Nazis in 1933.  The next volume will cover the period from 1933 to the outbreak of WWII, and the final volume will cover WWII itself.  Evans is attempting to reach a broad audience with a book that provides appropriate narration for the general readers and sufficient analysis to be useful to scholars.  He is largely successful.  This well written book provides not only the basic narrative but also sufficient detail to be interesting reading and his analysis, while probably not surprising to anyone knowledgeable about this period of history, is excellent.<br />For Evans, the roots of Nazism lie in the Wilhelimine period.  He sees the example of Bismarck as the key element in establishing the later German desire for a single charismatic and aggressive leader that the Nazis would transform into the Fuhrer principle.  He shows also the development of the often crude and vicious racist ideologies that captivated Hitler and his followers.  A key point is that these ideas were current in Germany for decades before the Nazi success.  In their most extreme form, they were the ideas of the fringe, but with the polarization of society that occurred after WWI, many of these ideas acquired legitimacy.  These racial ideologies in part stemmed from, benefited from, and complemented more widespread and traditional prejuidices, notably the widely diffused German anti-Semitism.  Evans argues with considerable force that the Wilhelmine state was in many respects politically immature, an ungainly combination of demoncracy, aristocracy, and monarchism bound together by a peculiar combination of mass politics and traditional patterns of deference.  Evans makes the further excellent point that these weaknesses were transferred en masse to the Weimar state.<br />Evans provides a really nice narrative and analysis of the Weimar Republic.  He shows that its genesis in the failure of WWI deprived it of much needed legitimacy.  Few Germans would acknowledge that they actually lost the war and for a majority of Germans, Weimar was established by an act of treason.  Many important segments of German society hankered for a return to prewar glory, prosperity, and social structure.  These elements included the Army, the Civil Service, most of the Professoriate, large business, and other sectors fearful of the socialist dominated early governments of Weimar.  With this unstable foundation, Weimar was then battered by the humiliating Versailles peace accords, the social chaos following the war, the incredible hyperinflation of the 20s, and finally the Great Depression.  As the 20s gave way to the 30s, the original supporters of Weimar fell away.  The Catholic associated Center party moved steadily rightward, frightened by the increasing strength of the Communists and influenced strongly by the Vatican's willingness to strike unsavory deals with right wing governments.  The traditional liberal parties,lukewarm about Weimar to begin with, shrunk, became increasingly rightist, and ultimately failed to hold their voters.  The Social Democrats remained the last supporters but they were impeded by stodgy and unimaginative leadership. The mystery is not why Weimar fell but why it lasted as long as it did.<br />Evans describes the growth of the Nazi party and the central role of Hitler in an excellent series of chapters.  He emphasizes the central role of Hitler's charisma and also the competence of several of Hitler's lieutenants, notably Goring, Gregor Strasser, Ernst Rohm, and Goebbels, all of whom played key roles in building an impressive organizational structure.<br />Likewise the remarkable series of events leading to Hitler assumption of the Chancellorship is describedextremely well.  The incredible short-sightedness and arrogance of the conservative politicians who felt they could manipulate Hitler is simply amazing.  Similarly, the only force that could have restrained or defeated Nazi violence was the Army and Hitler was able to buy their compliance with promises of rearmarment, repudiation of Versailles and at least implied promises of a war of revenge.  Once in power, the Nazis swept all before them.<br />This book does have some relatively minor defects.  Evans has deliberately chosen to keep footnotes to a minimum.  There is a good bibliography but it is not annotated.  More extensive footnotes and an annotated bibliography would enhance the value of this book.  Evans does successfully incorporate considerably analysis into the narrative but he doesn't deal well with some important issues such as why Nazism had the quite extensive popular appeal that it achieved.  Probably for space reasons, there is not much comparative analysis.  Fascism was a pan-European phenomenon and Evans deals only briefly with the distinctive features of German Fascism.  Evans is a good writer but he has chosen to write this book with a relatively dispassionate tone.  This doesn't really detract from the book as letting the horrible facts speak for themselves the book considerable power but there are times where stronger language would be useful.<br />I recommend supplementing this book with Michael Burleigh's recent 1 volume book on the Third Reich.  Burleigh's book is not a narrative but rather a series of chronologically arranged essays on different aspects of the Nazi state.  He explores in greater depth some of the important issues related to the phenomenon of Nazism such as the fundamental appeal of Nazism (and similar ideologies) and the genesis of the distinctive features of German Fascism.  His book is also, as Evans remarks in the Preface to this book, a moral history of Third Reich and Burleigh's often vivid writing offers a perspective complementary to Evans' work.mely well.  The incredible short-sightedness and arrogance of the conservative politicians who felt they could manipulate Hitler is simply amazing.  Similarly, the only force that could have restrained or defeated Nazi violence was the Army and Hitler was able to buy their compliance with promises of rearmarment, repudiation of Versailles and at least implied promises of a war of revenge.  Once in power, the Nazis swept all before them.<BR>This book does have some relatively minor defects.  Evans has deliberately chosen to keep footnotes to a minimum.  There is a good bibliography but it is not annotated.  More extensive footnotes and an annotated bibliography would enhance the value of this book.  Evans does successfully incorporate considerably analysis into the narrative but he doesn't deal well with some important issues such as why Nazism had the quite extensive popular appeal that it achieved.  Probably for space reasons, there is not much comparative analysis.  Fascism was a pan-European phenomenon and Evans deals only briefly with the distinctive features of German Fascism.  Evans is a good writer but he has chosen to write this book with a relatively dispassionate tone.  This doesn't really detract from the book as letting the horrible facts speak for themselves the book considerable power but there are times where stronger language would be useful. <BR>I recommend supplementing this book with Michael Burleigh's recent 1 volume book on the Third Reich.  Burleigh's book is not a narrative but rather a series of chronologically arranged essays on different aspects of the Nazi state.  He explores in greater depth some of the important issues related to the phenomenon of Nazism such as the fundamental appeal of Nazism (and similar ideologies) and the genesis of the distinctive features of German Fascism.  His book is also, as Evans remarks in the Preface to this book, a moral history of Third Reich and Burleigh's often vivid writing offers a perspective complementary to Evans' work.	2004-02-28
775396:US	50676891	R232XVEL38JZEF	0195123468	744089068	William Osler: A Life in Medicine	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	A Real Eminent Victorian	William Osler remains an iconic figure in American medicine.  Osler is taken often to epitomize the physician who brings a crticial and scholarly approach to the bedside in conjunction with compassion and empathy.  In this very well written biography, Bliss traces Osler's life, his achievements, and examines how he assumed iconic status and whether or not this status is deserved.  Bliss is particularly well equipped to undertake this task.  A well known specialist on Canadian history, he has written other fine books on medical history in a Canadian context.<br />Bliss presents Osler as a product of the rising British Victorian middle classes.  The remarkable son of impressive parents, Osler was the son of an English naval officer turned Anglican minister and his equally intelligent wife.  Raised in rural Ontario when this part of Canada was still a frontier, Osler's parents inculcated respect for learning, dedication to hard work, and clearly taught the value of community service.  William Osler was not an outlier in this family.  One of his brothers became a prominent businessman and two other brothers became important figures in Canadian law and politics.  An early interest in natural history (biology) lead Osler to medicine.  Trained in then provinicial Toronto and Montreal, he finished his education in some of the great teaching hospitals of Europe.  Spotted by his mentors in Montreal as a future star, he was brought back to McGill to teach at the modest medical school.  At McGill, Osler launched the career of careful clinical observation, pathologic correlation, and teaching that would propel him to the apex of his profession.  His growing reputation led to appointments at the University of Pennsylvania and then to the nascent Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine.  At Hopkins, he became the first Professor of Clinical Medicine and introduced the teaching methods that revolutionized medical education in the USA.  Relatively little of what Osler did was truly novel.  Clinico-pathologic correlation has been standard method for expanding medical knowledge for decades and the clerkship method of teaching had been used in Britain and continental Europe for some time.  Osler carried these methods to new heights.  In his clinical practice, in his teaching, and in his great textbooks, Osler summarized and codified almost all of 19th century medicine.  He was not a notable scientist, though his description and characterization of several important clinical conditions was very valuable, but he brought the best science of his time to the bedside and set clinical medicine on the course of drawing from systematic scientific work.  In terms of his personal accomplishments and the example he set for his numerous trainees, his impact on 20th century medicine was immense.<br />Osler's reputation as a fine physician was deserved.  Bliss shows him to be an warm and compassionate individual who was regarded often with great affection by his patients.  Blessed with a generous and kindly personality, he enjoyed a wide circle of friends and a happy family life.  In important respects, Osler exemplifies some of the most important and most admirable features of the Victorian period.  His sense of virtue and service was very strong but he was not a prig and had relatively liberal values.  Traveling in Germany towards the end of the 19th century, he noted and deplored rising anti-Semitism.  He appears to have been devoid of overt anti-Semitic feelings and had a number of Jewish trainess, all of whom he appears to have treated with his usual combination of high expectations and civil behavior.  Alone among the faculty at Hopkins, he supported the admission of women, though he did not really believe in female equality.  Bliss spent years immersed in Osler's extensive writings and tremendously extensive correspondence, clearly likes and admires Osler, and his regard for Osler is reflected in the tone of this biography.<br />Osler was also that quintessential Canadian, the provincial boy who achieves fame on the wider stage of the USA or Britain.  At the peak of his fame, he was the best known physician in the English speaking world and something of a minor celebrity.<br />Like all fine biographies, this book is about more than its central subject.  It is valuable on the development of Canadian society, the growth of universities in the USA and Canada, the history of medicine, and the devastating impact of WWI.<br />This will be the standard biography of Osler and it is worthy of its subject.uintessential Canadian, the provincial boy who achieves fame on the wider stage of the USA or Britain.  At the peak of his fame, he was the best known physician in the English speaking world and something of a minor celebrity. <BR>Like all fine biographies, this book is about more than its central subject.  It is valuable on the development of Canadian society, the growth of universities in the USA and Canada, the history of medicine, and the devastating impact of WWI. <BR>This will be the standard biography of Osler and it is worthy of its subject.	2004-02-22
778439:US	50676891	R21Z36ZSCXPSCF	0807847232	565056672	The Creation of the American Republic, 1776-1787	Books	5	115	118	N	N	Outstanding	This outstanding book is generally regarded as fundamental to understanding the American Revolution.  Wood immersed himself in contemporary writings including a huge array of political pamphlets, sermons, letters, and other texts in an attempt to reconstruct the thinking of the people who made the Revolution and the Constitution.  Wood begins with a reconstruction of how colonial Americans perceived the political organization of their societies, their relationship with Britain, and how they conceived politics in general.  The initial parts of the book parallel and draw from Bernard Bailyn's outstanding book, The Ideological Origins of the American Revolution.  Indeed, much of Wood's book can be seen as sequel to Bailyn's book.<br />Wood begins with a reconstruction of the pre-Revolutionary conception of politics.  Like Bailyn, Wood reconstructs this as a compound of several elements but dominated by certain general Enlightenment concepts and the specific framework developed by dissident 18th century British Whig intellectuals.  Basic concepts included the idea that political structure reflected basic social structures, that the 'people' embodied by parliamentary representation were opposed and oppressed by the Crown, and an obsession with 'corruption' induced by abuse of the executive power of the Crown.<br />The successful conclusion of the Revolution, however, did not produce the outcome predicted by this conception of politics.  The resulting confederation and states were perceived by many American intellectuals as dominated by greed and self-interest, there was an absence of the expected moral regeneration, and there were increasing concerns about the power of state legislatures causing both abuse of minority rights and threats to social order.<br />The reaction to these problems produced a wholesale revision of American's conceptions of politics.  In the period leading up to the formulation of the Constitution, many ideas that we accept as basic were formulated.  The nascent and later explicit Federalists severed the coupling between social and political organization.  This gave government an essentially independent role and represented a form of social engineering because the Federalists essentially depended on constructed institutions to guarantee social success rather than the prior emphasis on public virtue.  The ideas of constitutionialism, large republics, delegation of sovereignty, mixed government with responsibility divided between states and the Federal government, and emphasis on social contracts as a source of authority all stem from this period.<br />Wood is careful to emphasize some particularly interesting aspects of this process.  In some respects, the Federalist drive to constitutionalism was a reactionary act on the part of traditional elites who felt they were losing out in excessively egalitarian world created by the Revolution.  The process was widely diffused.  Important and generally recognized figures like Madison and James Wilson figure prominently in the story but Wood demonstrates how a host of other figures, many now obscure, contributed to and articulated this process.<br />In a sense, there were 2 American Revolutions.  The first being actual revolt from the British Empire and the second being the dramatic change in political thought and institutions that followed the successful conclusion of that revolt.  Wood does a wonderful job of delineating how this second revolution occurred.The nascent and later explicit Federalists severed the coupling between social and political organization.  This gave government an essentially independent role and represented a form of social engineering because the Federalists essentially depended on constructed institutions to guarantee social success rather than the prior emphasis on public virtue.  The ideas of constitutionialism, large republics, delegation of sovereignty, mixed government with responsibility divided between states and the Federal government, and emphasis on social contracts as a source of authority all stem from this period.  <BR>Wood is careful to emphasize some particularly interesting aspects of this process.  In some respects, the Federalist drive to constitutionalism was a reactionary act on the part of traditional elites who felt they were losing out in excessively egalitarian world created by the Revolution.  The process was widely diffused.  Important and generally recognized figures like Madison and James Wilson figure prominently in the story but Wood demonstrates how a host of other figures, many now obscure, contributed to and articulated this process.  <BR>In a sense, there were 2 American Revolutions.  The first being actual revolt from the British Empire and the second being the dramatic change in political thought and institutions that followed the successful conclusion of that revolt.  Wood does a wonderful job of delineating how this second revolution occurred.	2004-02-19
798234:US	50676891	R2TF6XQQQNB4I6	0226058980	768587048	The Discovery of Insulin	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Excellent and Vivid	This fine book is perhaps the best single narrative account of a major medical breakthrough.  Bliss's background is not in medicine or biology but rather in Canadian history, politics, and Canadian cultural history.  Prior to writing this book, he wrote what is probably the definitive biography of Frederick Banting and more recently he produced a highly praised biography of William Osler.  One of the best things about this book is the broad perspective that Bliss brings to the subject.  The exciting story of the isolation of insulin is grounded in a well laid out explanation of the social and cultural circumstances of these events.  The situation of Canadian society, the nature of academic life, and the consequences of a great discovery being made in a Canadian city are laid out very well.  Bliss is excellent on the science as well.  He is a fine writer explains the background and events of the isolation very well.  He really shows the team nature of this event and of scientific activity in general.  He is very careful to delineate the contributions of all participants and shows how a group effort was really necessary to isolate insulin.  A signficant point of revision is his emphasis of the role of JRR MacLeod, the Professor of Physiology at Toronto.  In traditional accounts, he is a scientific bad guy who hijacks credit from Banting and Best.  In Bliss's account, he is an important contributor who was probably victimized by Canadian nationalism.  Bliss is very good as well on diabetes as a clinical problem, the impact of the isolation of insulin, and difficulties of moving from laboratory work to mass production.  A fun and informative book that can be enjoyed by specialists and the general reading public.	2004-02-05
807833:US	50676891	R38YZSS9R35RX5	006019247X	173288464	Human Accomplishment: The Pursuit of Excellence in the Arts and Sciences, 800 B.C. to 1950	Books	2	21	50	N	N	Interesting Failure	This is an interesting attempt to document the historical trajectory of human creativity/accomplishment.  Murray's reasonable approach is to use existing reference works to catalogue significant creative persons and accomplishments in the arts and sciences.  In several fields, Murray selected a set of hopefully comprehensive sources and then identifies individuals mentioned in a majority of these works.  Murray then derives measures of creative accomplishments, their rates over time, and their association with specific historical periods or cultures.<br /> The success of Murray's attempt can be judged on three grounds; methodological, validity of conclusions, and novelty of valid conclusions.  The first two criteria are obvious but it is the novelty of predictions that is the most important.  The production of novel, unexpected and counterintuitive valid claims is the best measure of a new theory or approach.<br /> If there is something wrong with Murray's datasets/lists, then the whole enterprise is suspect.  Murray finds a high level of correlation among his sources.  This is reassuring but doesn't exclude shared, systemic biases among his sources.  Inspecting several lists discloses problems.  In the biology list and the medicine list, there is substantial under-reporting of significant figures. The Biology list is biased also towards genetics, physiology, biochemistry, and early cell biology.  While some evolutionary biologists are mentioned, there is little attention to many traditional areas of biology and newer areas such as Ecology.  I suspect the same problem occurs with the lists for math and technology.  Murray's list for Western philosophy includes several theologians but none after 1850, a significant omission.  Murray attempts cross-cultural comparisons with separate lists for Western, Chinese, Indian, and Japanese literature.  The number of significant figures in Chinese literature is 1/10 of those on the Western literature list (about 600 to 60).  An obvious feature of the comprehensive Western list is the large number of minor figures included.  I find it hard to believe that 2000 years of Chinese culture haven't produced a substantial number of poets and other writers equivalent to these minor figures.  Murray has been somewhat unfair to non-Western cultures in other ways.  He has a list for Western music but not non-Western music.  Murray has no list for Islamic philosophy, arguing that essentially all Islamic philosophy is derivative commentaries on Greek philosophers.  Perhaps correct, but the Western philosophy list includes a number of theologians.  To be fair, Islamic theologians should have a list.  These problems with his basic datasets undermine confidence in his results.<br /> Many of Murray's conclusions are valid but obvious.  Concluding that most accomplishments are relatively recent is one example.  Another is the dominance of recent Western civilization in producing human accomplishments.  Some of Murray's conclusions regarding the genesis of accomplishments fall into this category of valid but obvious.  He concludes that cosmopolitan cities and freer societies foster creativity.  You don't need to count column inches in encyclopedias to know this.  A theory or method that labors to produce obvious results is not likely to be powerful.<br /> What about novel claims?  Murray makes one interesting and unexpected claim; that the rate of significant accomplishments has been declining since about 1850.  This is surprising in view of the huge advances in science and technology in the past century and a half.  This claim is based on adjusting achievements, measured primarily as significant figures, for population size.  When Murray makes this adjustment, which he correctly restricts to Western societies, he notes a decline in the rate of accomplishment.  This is a dubious claim.  As described above, the science and technology lists underestimate significant figures and most of these uncounted figuresoccur after 1850.  Murray's lists fail completely to capture the diversification of creative activities that occurs after 1850.  For example, the important effort to recover and understand the human past is largely a phenomenon of the past 150 years.  Important scientific fields such as cosmology, climatology, ecology, population genetics, epidemiology, and materials science are largely 20th century products.  Economics as a scientific discipline, most of the social sciences, and psychology begin in the second half of the 19th century.<br />Another problem is that rate is a ratio and changes in any ratio can reflect changes in the numerator, the denominator, or a combination of both.  Before 1850, we are dealing with preindustrial societies, after 1850, industrialization accelerates all over Western Europe and North America.  Is it correct to compare relatively simple preindustrial societies with the much more differentiated world that results from industrialization?  A simpler measure like cumulative achievements is probably more robust.  Murray makes an unsuccessful effort to deal with the changing nature of society.  He introduces a correction for `de facto' population, an estimate of individuals who could have contributed in a significant way.  His `de facto' measure, however, doesn't take into account the accumulation of knowledge in the sciences and the increasing need for education in order to make substantial contributions.  The `de facto' measure leads to a marked over-estimation of the actual population that can make significant contributions to science and technology.<br />Murray has no analysis of the past 50 years; he simply assumes that trends from 1850 to 1950 continue over the last 50 years.  This is methodologically dubious and very likely to be wrong.  The past 50 years has been a hyper-Golden Age for science and technology development.  This remarkable recent efflorescence of science and technology has occurred in the context of modest total population increases in the Western world.  It is associated with significant increases in the availability of higher education but the increase in scientific and technological accomplishment greatly outstrips the increase in total population, the increase in literate population, and the increase in university educated population by huge factors.  This is not the picture of decline, it is the picture of a tremendously high recent rate of achievement.<br />Murray's analysis is largely sterile.  His valid conclusions are largely conventional and uninteresting, and his interesting conclusions are invalid.  The greatest effect of this book may be to stimulate scholars to do a better job on this interesting topic.after 1850.  Murray's lists fail completely to capture the diversification of creative activities that occurs after 1850.  For example, the important effort to recover and understand the human past is largely a phenomenon of the past 150 years.  Important scientific fields such as cosmology, climatology, ecology, population genetics, epidemiology, and materials science are largely 20th century products.  Economics as a scientific discipline, most of the social sciences, and psychology begin in the second half of the 19th century.  <BR>Another problem is that rate is a ratio and changes in any ratio can reflect changes in the numerator, the denominator, or a combination of both.  Before 1850, we are dealing with preindustrial societies, after 1850, industrialization accelerates all over Western Europe and North America.  Is it correct to compare relatively simple preindustrial societies with the much more differentiated world that results from industrialization?  A simpler measure like cumulative achievements is probably more robust.  Murray makes an unsuccessful effort to deal with the changing nature of society.  He introduces a correction for `de facto' population, an estimate of individuals who could have contributed in a significant way.  His `de facto' measure, however, doesn't take into account the accumulation of knowledge in the sciences and the increasing need for education in order to make substantial contributions.  The `de facto' measure leads to a marked over-estimation of the actual population that can make significant contributions to science and technology.  <BR>Murray has no analysis of the past 50 years; he simply assumes that trends from 1850 to 1950 continue over the last 50 years.  This is methodologically dubious and very likely to be wrong.  The past 50 years has been a hyper-Golden Age for science and technology development.  This remarkable recent efflorescence of science and technology has occurred in the context of modest total populationincreases in the Western world.  It is associated with significant increases in the availability of higher education but the increase in scientific and technological accomplishment greatly outstrips the increase in total population, the increase in literate population, and the increase in university educated population by huge factors.  This is not the picture of decline, it is the picture of a tremendously high recent rate of achievement.  <BR>Murray's analysis is largely sterile.  His valid conclusions are largely conventional and uninteresting, and his interesting conclusions are invalid.  The greatest effect of this book may be to stimulate scholars to do a better job on this interesting topic.	2004-01-28
852193:US	50676891	RVA5Q9LQ65A0T	037541472X	223782356	The Small Boat of Great Sorrows	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Solid Procedural/Thriller	This is a solid procedural/thriller set partly in post-war Bosnia.  The hero is a former Sarajevo policeman, now a refugee in Germany.  The structure of the story, which is based on a war crimes investigation, is structured as a combination police procedural/suspense thriller.  Elements include not only war crimes in Bosnia but also WWII war crimes and the hero's discoversy of some murky family history related to the WWII war crimes.  Decently written and plotted.	2003-12-27
852419:US	50676891	RHSW6OVY3I8Y8	0393051447	550346223	Khrushchev: The Man and His Era	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Insightful	This is an excellent biography of the Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev.  Poorly educated but possessed of considerable native intelligence, energetic but erratic, and gifted with some charisma, Khrushchev is one of the most ambigous figures of the 20th century. The son of a poor peasant and unskilled laborer, the ambitious Khrushchev became a skilled metalworker and labor activist who joined the Communist party in the 1920s.  He aspired originally to become an engineer or factory manager.  In the US, Khrushchev might well have pushed himself into the middle class, in Western Europe, he might have become a prominent labor union official.  In the nascent Soviet Union, Khrushchev cast his lot with the party.  He was not, however, a simple careerist.  There is no doubt that Khrushchev truly believed in the communist ideal, or more accurately, a rather simplified version of that ideal.<br />Khrushchev became a prominent member of Stalin's court, and after Stalin's death, his eventual successor.  His survival and succession testify to his mastery of the brutal politics of the Stalinist state.  As a party activist and Stalin's henchman, Khruschev was complicit in some of the great crimes of the Stalinist state.  His best known and greatest accomplishment, however, was his attack on Stalin and the machinery of the Stalinist state.  In the so-called secret speech in which in denounced Stalin, his regime's dissolution of the Gulag, and the rehabilitation of many of Stalin's victims, Khrushchev dealt Stalinism a mortal blow.  He probably also and unintentionally fatally undermined the legitimacy of the whole Soviet enterprise.  It is important to keep these positive achievements in perspective.  All of Stalin's successors and potential successors realized that Stalin's policies were unsupportable.  The Gulag was shrinking before Khrushchev attained primacy.  In the immediate period after Stalin's death, the most radical proposals for reform came from the sinister Lavrenti Beria, the last great head of the NKVD.  What distinguished Khrushchev was his vociferous and public attack on Stalin, something that is unlikely to have come from his rivals for Stalin's throne.  Khrushchev became a crucial example for the next generation of Soviet reformers, that of Mikhail Gorbachev.<br />Taubman shows Khrushchev's limitations very well.  He was a prisoner of relatively simple ideological constructs and his experience as one of Stalin's courtiers prepared him poorly for leadership.  While his anti-Stalinism transformed Soviet life, his economic policies were sterile and his foreign policy largely unsuccessful.  He wanted very much to reduce the perceived isolation of the Soviet Union and to reduce tensions with the Western powers.  His clumsy and inconsistent use of bluster served him poorly.  He reduced the size of the Soviet military establishment markedly (one of the reasons for his fall from power) but his adventurism in Cuba produced the most dangerous episode of the Cold War.<br />Implicit in Taubman's narrative is the fact Khrushchev was a product of the Stalinist system.  Khrushchev in many ways was a typical Soviet leader of his generation; poorly educated, schooled by the experience of the Civil War and Stalin's attempts to impose revolution from above, and promoted by a ruthless autocrat who was hardly interested in independent thinking.  Taubman's depiction of Khrushchev's career under Stalin is a superb portrait of how the government in the Soviet Union worked during Stalin's long reign.  Taubman's careful analysis of Khrushchev's performance as Soviet leader is an equally good portrayal of decision making by the Soviet leadership during the 1950s and early 1960s.<br />This well written book is the product of years of work.  Based on published Russian and Western literature, extensive archival research, and many hours of interviews with witnesses to these events.  Special mention should be made of several members of Khrushchev's immediatefamily, who appear to have been very generous with their time in sharing recollections with Taubman.<br />It is impossible to render a simple judgement about Khrushchev.  Khrushchev was one of Stalin's henchmen, and there can be few greater indictments of a human being.  At his funeral, however, ordinary Soviet citizens spoke of how he had dismantled the Gulag and rehabilitated Stalin's victims, and no Soviet leader ever received a greater commendation.amily, who appear to have been very generous with their time in sharing recollections with Taubman.  <BR>It is impossible to render a simple judgement about Khrushchev.  Khrushchev was one of Stalin's henchmen, and there can be few greater indictments of a human being.  At his funeral, however, ordinary Soviet citizens spoke of how he had dismantled the Gulag and rehabilitated Stalin's victims, and no Soviet leader ever received a greater commendation.	2003-12-27
865677:US	50676891	R5BMJYCJDGVPA	9997483081	924354005	The Owl Service	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Fine Fantasy Novel	This is a very well written and unusual fantasy novel.  In some respects, it is a horror novel with the traditional theme of an ancient curse working out its consequences in the modern world.  Based on a story from the Mabinogion, a collection of Welsh myths, The Owl Service is set in a small Welsh valley in the contemporary world (or least contemporary when the book was published).  The three principal characters, a teenage girl and two teenage boys, seemed doomed to repeat the tragic consequences of a love triangle described in the Mabinogion.  Various aspects of the story involve combining mythological events with the actual geography of the valley, a method that Garner uses very well and used well in other books.  The quality of writing is very good and Garner mixes the mythological aspects of the story with contemporary elements, in this case featuring the class consciousness of British life.  As commented by other reviewers, this is not a book for younger children.  Best enjoyed by adults and older, more intelligent teenagers.	2003-12-14
875477:US	50676891	R8KKXT154ZPJH	037540158X	512541409	Lincoln's Virtues: An Ethical Biography	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Another Excellent Miller Book	This is another excellent book by William Lee Miller, the author of The First Liberty (about church/state separation), The Business of May Next (about Madison and the Constitution), and Arguing About Slavery (about John Quincy Adams and the controversy about slavery).  In all these books, Miller has explored what he refers to as the moral basis of America, an effort to uncover the basic motivations leading to the establishment of basic American institutions.  His strategy has usually been to select some major personality and episode and systematically use that episode to get to the heart of the basic impulse underlying the result.<br />This book is a little different.  Lincoln's Virtues concentrates more closely on the person, in this case Lincoln, than prior books and provides less background history.  In this book, Miller uses a roughly chronological/biographical structure to examine the development of Lincoln's ideas and motivations in the years leading up to the Presidency.  The result is fascinating reading.  Miller has developed style combining very well written narrative, careful use of quotations from primary sources, and scrupulous exegesis of the primary literature.  Miller is simply an excellent writer with an engaging, almost conversational style.  He presents Lincoln as a man who developed a series of strong moral convictions but also a personally ambitious individual who dedicated himself to professional politics.  Through his personal traits, such as his magnaminity and self-discipline, Miller shows Lincoln harnessing his ambition in the service of achieving substantial moral ends.  Miller's Lincoln is an extremely admirable person.  To Miller, Lincoln is a powerful and largely self-educated intellect, a skilled professional politician with high moral stature, a very ambitious man who consistently put moral considerations ahead of personal achievement, and an excellent speaker who relied on reasoned appeals for justice rather than emotional demagoguery.  Miller shows well how this unlikely paragon, and that is not too strong a word, emerged from the unlikely setting of frontier America.  A strong point made by Miller is that Lincoln, from his earliest days, confidently rejected much of his milieu.  In a society characterized by enthusiastic revivalism, he was a religous skeptic.  In a place where Jacksonian democracts dominated political life, he became a Whig.  In a state with the strongest anti-negro legislation of any nothern state, he was at least relatively unprejuidiced.  Miller also defends Lincoln effectively against recent charges of racism and reluctant abolitionism, which Miller correctly sees as anachronistic.<br />This book does have some deficiencies.  Because of the concentration on Lincoln, it has less background narration than Miller's prior books and it requires a decent background knowledge of 19th century American history to get the most out of this book.  I don't think Miller has done quite enough to show why many in the North found the expansion of slavery so threatening.  Miller shows well that Lincoln concluded that slavery was fundamentally immoral and un-American and opposed it on these grounds.  What Miller doesn't convey, I think, is the fact that many in North felt, correctly, that slavery expansion was a way for the South to maintain its political grip on the nation.  Both North and South perceived that restriction of slavery to its existing domain would break the hold of the South on the Federal government permanently and perhaps lead eventually to the extinction of slavery.  Miller dealt with this issue at somewhat in his previous book, Arguing About Slavery, but it only comes up tangentially here.  I think its this aspect of the slavery controversy that gave the events of the 1850 and the election of 1860 such urgency.y.  Miller shows well how this unlikely paragon, and that is not too strong a word, emerged from the unlikely setting of frontier America.  A strong point made by Miller is that Lincoln, from his earliest days, confidently rejected much of his milieu.  In a society characterized by enthusiastic revivalism, he was a religous skeptic.  In a place where Jacksonian democracts dominated political life, he became a Whig.  In a state with the strongest anti-negro legislation of any nothern state, he was at least relatively unprejuidiced.  Miller also defends Lincoln effectively against recent charges of racism and reluctant abolitionism, which Miller correctly sees as anachronistic.  <BR>This book does have some deficiencies.  Because of the concentration on Lincoln, it has less background narration than Miller's prior books and it requires a decent background knowledge of 19th century American history to get the most out of this book.  I don't think Miller has done quite enough to show why many in the North found the expansion of slavery so threatening.  Miller shows well that Lincoln concluded that slavery was fundamentally immoral and un-American and opposed it on these grounds.  What Miller doesn't convey, I think, is the fact that many in North felt, correctly, that slavery expansion was a way for the South to maintain its political grip on the nation.  Both North and South perceived that restriction of slavery to its existing domain would break the hold of the South on the Federal government permanently and perhaps lead eventually to the extinction of slavery.  Miller dealt with this issue at somewhat in his previous book, Arguing About Slavery, but it only comes up tangentially here.  I think its this aspect of the slavery controversy that gave the events of the 1850 and the election of 1860 such urgency.	2003-12-05
894272:US	50676891	RJGV4AYL4QTEH	0521357306	656404453	Locke: Two Treatises of Government (Cambridge Texts in the History of Political Thought)	Books	5	29	34	N	N	Seminal	The Treatises of Government, particularly the Second Treatise, are cornerstone works in Western thought.  The First Treatise is devoted primarily to demolishing the notion that monarchial rule is divinely sanctioned and is mainly of interest to scholars.  The Second Treatise, however, is a fundamental work that can be read profitably by anyone with an interest in philosophy, ethics, and European history.  The Second Treatise is relatively short and easy to read.  This is the standard edition.<br />When reading these books, it is important to bear in the mind that one of Locke's aims was to defend the Glorious Revolution which overthrew the Stuart monarchs of Britain.  Locke then attempted not only to produce a vigorous attack on traditional justifications for monarchy (the First Treatise) but also a set of positive doctrines (the Second Treatise) which would provide a coherent alternative to the idea of divinely sanctioned monarchial power.  The longest, and last, chapter in the Second Treatise is the one in which Locke outlines the circumstances under which governments may be overthrown.<br />In the Second Treatise, Locke begins implicitly with a view of God as a beneficient Creator who endowed Man with sbustantial rational faculties, intrinsic rights, and dignity.  These rational faculties lead to choices that allow the construction of justified and appropriate governments.  In terms of rights, the key word is property, by which Locke means not only property in the sense of possessions but also property in themselves, essentially a certain freedom of choice, and what he terms &quot;liberties&quot; or basic human rights.  In several important senses, these rights are inalienable.  A man may contract with another for use of labor but cannot sell himself into slavery, and others may not deprive men of their property and liberties.  Locke follows this line of argument to many important, and in the context of the time, novel conclusions.  Slavery is forbidden.  Children reaching the age of maturity are equals.  Some of Locke's language can be construed as offering some rights to women.<br />Locke develops an optimistic social contract theory in which men band together to overcome some of the defects of the state of nature. This is the origin of government, which rests on the consent of the governed and is supposed to be in the service of the governed.  Locke devotes a fair amount of the Second Treatise to outlining his conception of political power, in many respects a juidicial one, and to a broad discussion of the structure of acceptable governments.<br />While some important aspects of Locke's scheme, notably his affirmation of a social contract theory as the historical basis for government, are clearly wrong, many of his ideas became fundamental to our present ideas of a justified society.  The notions of intrinsic human rights and government depending on consent are essential.<br />The Second Treatise is a relatively short work and aspects of interpretation are ambiguous.  A very good example is the emphasis on property.  Locke is regarded commonly, especially by conservative intellectuals, as the defender of private property strictly construed.  There is some justification for this interpretation.  On the other hand, in the state of nature at any rate, Locke is quite clear that individuals should use only what they need for reasonable subsistence and he is opposed clearly to social dominance in any society.  Locke's view of how economic property is created is quite interesting.  In the state of nature at least, property is created by the admixture of human labor with the fruits of the earth.  This is a labor theory of value and in Locke's case, the value created has not only an economic component but also a moral dimension.  The labor theory of value had a distinguished history in early economic thought and ended up being a prominent component of Marxist political theory.  This makes Locke not only an ancestor of 19th century laissez-faire theorist but also of their greatest critic, Karl Marx.laissez-faire theorist but also of their greatest critic, Karl Marx.	2003-11-20
899053:US	50676891	R1N6ZRD0FMXZAP	0441011020	80979198	Chindi	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Decent First Contact Novel	This is a fairly good first contact novel.  McDevitt is a competent writer with a good imagination.  In this book, he has incorporated the plot device of having the heroine's search for companionship mirror the search for extraterrestrial civilizations.  The book displays good imagination and the basic plot device of discovering an advanced civilization systematically eavesdropping on emerging civilizations is clever and developed well.  As commented by other reviewers, this book is too long.  The plot elements become a bit gimmicky and the characters aren't developed well enough to sustain this length book.	2003-11-16
909334:US	50676891	R3SIZ2M66BR0T1	0231128525	964040421	The City Trilogy (Modern Chinese Literature from Taiwan)	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Moderately Interesting	These books are a valiant attempt to write science fiction in the idioms of traditional chinese literature.  Unfortunately, these allegorical stories don't succeed particularly well.  They are essentially Chinese style romances set in an interplanetary context.  The result is not particularly interesting as science fiction and becomes essentially derivative and somewhat wooden romance tales.  This could be the fault of the translations and it would be necessary to read the originals to be sure.<br />Readers who are intrigued by the idea of combining the style of traditional Chinese literature with science fiction should read the work of Cordwainer Smith (Paul Linebarger), an American China scholar who wrote some of the best science fiction ever published.	2003-11-07
919742:US	50676891	RRNBFIMFB3PXX	0631230165	782764288	The Aztecs	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Excellent Overview	This is an excellent summary book on Aztec civilization.  Well organized and written clearly, this book is distinguished from prior overviews by its integration of archaelogical information that has permitted some understanding of the life of the majority of Aztec commoners.  Smith covers Aztec history, the physical and ecological basis of their society, agriculture and economy, art and religion, and the organization of Aztec polities.  The book is illustrated well.  This is definitely the best single book I have read on this topic and has an excellent bibliography for those wishing to pursue the literature in depth.  This book is part of the Peoples of America series published by Blackwell.  I've read another book in this series, The Incas by D'Altroy, which is first rate.  The publishers deserve a pat on the back for producing this highly informative series.	2003-10-30
925158:US	50676891	R3L9CY7ODP41N5	0393308138	723130322	The Fortune of War  (Aubrey / Maturin)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Joint Review of All Aubrey-Maturin Books	Some critics have referred to the Aubrey/Maturin books as one long novel united not only by their historical setting but also by the central plot element of the Aubrey/Maturin friendship.  Having read these fine books over a period of several years, I decided to evaluate their cumulative integrity by reading them consecutively in order of publication over a period of a few weeks.  This turned out to be a rewarding enterprise.  For readers unfamiliar with these books, they describe the experiences of a Royal Navy officer and his close friend and traveling companion, a naval surgeon.  The experiences cover a broad swath of the Napoleonic Wars and virtually the whole globe.<br /> Rereading all the books confirmed that O'Brian is a superb writer and that his ability to evoke the past is outstanding.  O'Brian has numerous gifts as a writer.  He is the master of the long, careful description, and the short, telling episode.  His ability to construct ingenious but creditable plots is first-rate, probably because he based much of the action of his books on actual events.  For example, some of the episodes of Jack Aubrey's career are based on the life of the famous frigate captain, Lord Cochrane.  O'Brian excels also in his depiction of characters.  His ability to develop psychologically creditable characters through a combination of dialogue, comments by other characters, and description is tremendous.  O'Brien's interest in psychology went well beyond normal character development, some books contain excellent case studies of anxiety, depression, and mania.<br /> Reading O'Brien gives vivid view of the early 19th century.  The historian Bernard Bailyn, writing of colonial America, stated once that the 18th century world was not only pre-industrial but also pre-humanitarian (paraphrase).  This is true as well for the early 19th century depicted by O'Brien.  The casual and invariable presence of violence, brutality, and death is a theme running through all the books.  The constant threats to life are the product not only of natural forces beyond human control, particularly the weather and disease, but also of relative human indifference to suffering.  There is nothing particularly romantic about the world O'Brien describes but it also a certain grim grandeur.  O'Brien also shows the somewhat transitional nature of the early 19th century.  The British Navy and its vessals were the apogee of what could be achieved by pre-industrial technology.  This is true both of the technology itself and the social organization needed to produce and use the massive sailing vessals.  Aubrey's navy is an organization reflecting its society; an order based on deference, rigid hierarchy, primitive notions of honor, favoritism, and very, very corrupt.  At the same time, it was one of the largest and most effective bureaucracies in human history to that time.  The nature of service exacted great penalities for failure in a particularly environment, and great success was rewarded greatly.  In some ways, it was a ruthless meritocracy whose structure and success anticipates the great expansion of government power and capacity seen in the rest of the 19th century.<br /> O'Brian is also the great writer about male friendship.  There are important female characters in these books but since most of the action takes place at sea, male characters predominate.  The friendship between Aubrey and Maturin is the central armature of the books and is a brilliant creation.  The position of women in these books is ambiguous.  There are sympathetic characters, notably Aubrey's long suffering wife.  Other women figures, notably Maturin's wife, leave a less positive impression.  On board ship, women tend to have a disruptive, even malign influence.<br /> How did O'Brian manage to sustain his achievement over 20 books?  Beyond his technical abilities as a writer and the instrinsic interest of the subject, O'Brien made a series of very intelligent choices.  He has not one but twomajor protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.<br /> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.major protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.  <BR> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.	2003-10-26
925206:US	50676891	R5BPBMEGH2VDW	039332107X	558585661	Blue at the Mizzen (Vol. Book 20)  (Aubrey/Maturin Novels)	Books	5	41	44	N	N	Joint Review of All Aubrey-Maturin Books	Some critics have referred to the Aubrey/Maturin books as one long novel united not only by their historical setting but also by the central plot element of the Aubrey/Maturin friendship.  Having read these fine books over a period of several years, I decided to evaluate their cumulative integrity by reading them consecutively in order of publication over a period of a few weeks.  This turned out to be a rewarding enterprise.  For readers unfamiliar with these books, they describe the experiences of a Royal Navy officer and his close friend and traveling companion, a naval surgeon.  The experiences cover a broad swath of the Napoleonic Wars and virtually the whole globe.<br /> Rereading all the books confirmed that O'Brian is a superb writer and that his ability to evoke the past is outstanding.  O'Brian has numerous gifts as a writer.  He is the master of the long, careful description, and the short, telling episode.  His ability to construct ingenious but creditable plots is first-rate, probably because he based much of the action of his books on actual events.  For example, some of the episodes of Jack Aubrey's career are based on the life of the famous frigate captain, Lord Cochrane.  O'Brian excels also in his depiction of characters.  His ability to develop psychologically creditable characters through a combination of dialogue, comments by other characters, and description is tremendous.  O'Brien's interest in psychology went well beyond normal character development, some books contain excellent case studies of anxiety, depression, and mania.<br /> Reading O'Brien gives vivid view of the early 19th century.  The historian Bernard Bailyn, writing of colonial America, stated once that the 18th century world was not only pre-industrial but also pre-humanitarian (paraphrase).  This is true as well for the early 19th century depicted by O'Brien.  The casual and invariable presence of violence, brutality, and death is a theme running through all the books.  The constant threats to life are the product not only of natural forces beyond human control, particularly the weather and disease, but also of relative human indifference to suffering.  There is nothing particularly romantic about the world O'Brien describes but it also a certain grim grandeur.  O'Brien also shows the somewhat transitional nature of the early 19th century.  The British Navy and its vessals were the apogee of what could be achieved by pre-industrial technology.  This is true both of the technology itself and the social organization needed to produce and use the massive sailing vessals.  Aubrey's navy is an organization reflecting its society; an order based on deference, rigid hierarchy, primitive notions of honor, favoritism, and very, very corrupt.  At the same time, it was one of the largest and most effective bureaucracies in human history to that time.  The nature of service exacted great penalities for failure in a particularly environment, and great success was rewarded greatly.  In some ways, it was a ruthless meritocracy whose structure and success anticipates the great expansion of government power and capacity seen in the rest of the 19th century.<br /> O'Brian is also the great writer about male friendship.  There are important female characters in these books but since most of the action takes place at sea, male characters predominate.  The friendship between Aubrey and Maturin is the central armature of the books and is a brilliant creation.  The position of women in these books is ambiguous.  There are sympathetic characters, notably Aubrey's long suffering wife.  Other women figures, notably Maturin's wife, leave a less positive impression.  On board ship, women tend to have a disruptive, even malign influence.<br /> How did O'Brian manage to sustain his achievement over 20 books?  Beyond his technical abilities as a writer and the instrinsic interest of the subject, O'Brien made a series of very intelligent choices.  He has not one but twomajor protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.<br /> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.major protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.  <BR> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.	2003-10-26
925287:US	50676891	R65US1BFSKTCC	0393309053	263509231	The Letter of Marque (Vol. Book 12)  (Aubrey/Maturin Novels)	Books	5	43	48	N	N	Joint Review of All Aubrey-Maturin Books	Some critics have referred to the Aubrey/Maturin books as one long novel united not only by their historical setting but also by the central plot element of the Aubrey/Maturin friendship.  Having read these fine books over a period of several years, I decided to evaluate their cumulative integrity by reading them consecutively in order of publication over a period of a few weeks.  This turned out to be a rewarding enterprise.  For readers unfamiliar with these books, they describe the experiences of a Royal Navy officer and his close friend and traveling companion, a naval surgeon.  The experiences cover a broad swath of the Napoleonic Wars and virtually the whole globe.<br /> Rereading all the books confirmed that O'Brian is a superb writer and that his ability to evoke the past is outstanding.  O'Brian has numerous gifts as a writer.  He is the master of the long, careful description, and the short, telling episode.  His ability to construct ingenious but creditable plots is first-rate, probably because he based much of the action of his books on actual events.  For example, some of the episodes of Jack Aubrey's career are based on the life of the famous frigate captain, Lord Cochrane.  O'Brian excels also in his depiction of characters.  His ability to develop psychologically creditable characters through a combination of dialogue, comments by other characters, and description is tremendous.  O'Brien's interest in psychology went well beyond normal character development, some books contain excellent case studies of anxiety, depression, and mania.<br /> Reading O'Brien gives vivid view of the early 19th century.  The historian Bernard Bailyn, writing of colonial America, stated once that the 18th century world was not only pre-industrial but also pre-humanitarian (paraphrase).  This is true as well for the early 19th century depicted by O'Brien.  The casual and invariable presence of violence, brutality, and death is a theme running through all the books.  The constant threats to life are the product not only of natural forces beyond human control, particularly the weather and disease, but also of relative human indifference to suffering.  There is nothing particularly romantic about the world O'Brien describes but it also a certain grim grandeur.  O'Brien also shows the somewhat transitional nature of the early 19th century.  The British Navy and its vessals were the apogee of what could be achieved by pre-industrial technology.  This is true both of the technology itself and the social organization needed to produce and use the massive sailing vessals.  Aubrey's navy is an organization reflecting its society; an order based on deference, rigid hierarchy, primitive notions of honor, favoritism, and very, very corrupt.  At the same time, it was one of the largest and most effective bureaucracies in human history to that time.  The nature of service exacted great penalities for failure in a particularly environment, and great success was rewarded greatly.  In some ways, it was a ruthless meritocracy whose structure and success anticipates the great expansion of government power and capacity seen in the rest of the 19th century.<br /> O'Brian is also the great writer about male friendship.  There are important female characters in these books but since most of the action takes place at sea, male characters predominate.  The friendship between Aubrey and Maturin is the central armature of the books and is a brilliant creation.  The position of women in these books is ambiguous.  There are sympathetic characters, notably Aubrey's long suffering wife.  Other women figures, notably Maturin's wife, leave a less positive impression.  On board ship, women tend to have a disruptive, even malign influence.<br /> How did O'Brian manage to sustain his achievement over 20 books?  Beyond his technical abilities as a writer and the instrinsic interest of the subject, O'Brien made a series of very intelligent choices.  He has not one but twomajor protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.<br /> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.major protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.  <BR> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.	2003-10-26
925290:US	50676891	R15B8WKJDNUGND	039330812X	878853693	Desolation Island (Aubrey/Maturin)	Books	5	20	24	N	N	Joint Review of All Aubrey-Maturin Books	Some critics have referred to the Aubrey/Maturin books as one long novel united not only by their historical setting but also by the central plot element of the Aubrey/Maturin friendship.  Having read these fine books over a period of several years, I decided to evaluate their cumulative integrity by reading them consecutively in order of publication over a period of a few weeks.  This turned out to be a rewarding enterprise.  For readers unfamiliar with these books, they describe the experiences of a Royal Navy officer and his close friend and traveling companion, a naval surgeon.  The experiences cover a broad swath of the Napoleonic Wars and virtually the whole globe.<br /> Rereading all the books confirmed that O'Brian is a superb writer and that his ability to evoke the past is outstanding.  O'Brian has numerous gifts as a writer.  He is the master of the long, careful description, and the short, telling episode.  His ability to construct ingenious but creditable plots is first-rate, probably because he based much of the action of his books on actual events.  For example, some of the episodes of Jack Aubrey's career are based on the life of the famous frigate captain, Lord Cochrane.  O'Brian excels also in his depiction of characters.  His ability to develop psychologically creditable characters through a combination of dialogue, comments by other characters, and description is tremendous.  O'Brien's interest in psychology went well beyond normal character development, some books contain excellent case studies of anxiety, depression, and mania.<br /> Reading O'Brien gives vivid view of the early 19th century.  The historian Bernard Bailyn, writing of colonial America, stated once that the 18th century world was not only pre-industrial but also pre-humanitarian (paraphrase).  This is true as well for the early 19th century depicted by O'Brien.  The casual and invariable presence of violence, brutality, and death is a theme running through all the books.  The constant threats to life are the product not only of natural forces beyond human control, particularly the weather and disease, but also of relative human indifference to suffering.  There is nothing particularly romantic about the world O'Brien describes but it also a certain grim grandeur.  O'Brien also shows the somewhat transitional nature of the early 19th century.  The British Navy and its vessals were the apogee of what could be achieved by pre-industrial technology.  This is true both of the technology itself and the social organization needed to produce and use the massive sailing vessals.  Aubrey's navy is an organization reflecting its society; an order based on deference, rigid hierarchy, primitive notions of honor, favoritism, and very, very corrupt.  At the same time, it was one of the largest and most effective bureaucracies in human history to that time.  The nature of service exacted great penalities for failure in a particularly environment, and great success was rewarded greatly.  In some ways, it was a ruthless meritocracy whose structure and success anticipates the great expansion of government power and capacity seen in the rest of the 19th century.<br /> O'Brian is also the great writer about male friendship.  There are important female characters in these books but since most of the action takes place at sea, male characters predominate.  The friendship between Aubrey and Maturin is the central armature of the books and is a brilliant creation.  The position of women in these books is ambiguous.  There are sympathetic characters, notably Aubrey's long suffering wife.  Other women figures, notably Maturin's wife, leave a less positive impression.  On board ship, women tend to have a disruptive, even malign influence.<br /> How did O'Brian manage to sustain his achievement over 20 books?  Beyond his technical abilities as a writer and the instrinsic interest of the subject, O'Brien made a series of very intelligent choices.  He has not one but twomajor protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.<br /> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.major protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.  <BR> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.	2003-10-26
925294:US	50676891	R2IWM0ND12HY8B	0393319792	414513282	The Hundred Days (Vol. Book 19)  (Aubrey/Maturin Novels)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Joint Review of All Aubrey-Maturin Books	Some critics have referred to the Aubrey/Maturin books as one long novel united not only by their historical setting but also by the central plot element of the Aubrey/Maturin friendship.  Having read these fine books over a period of several years, I decided to evaluate their cumulative integrity by reading them consecutively in order of publication over a period of a few weeks.  This turned out to be a rewarding enterprise.  For readers unfamiliar with these books, they describe the experiences of a Royal Navy officer and his close friend and traveling companion, a naval surgeon.  The experiences cover a broad swath of the Napoleonic Wars and virtually the whole globe.<br /> Rereading all the books confirmed that O'Brian is a superb writer and that his ability to evoke the past is outstanding.  O'Brian has numerous gifts as a writer.  He is the master of the long, careful description, and the short, telling episode.  His ability to construct ingenious but creditable plots is first-rate, probably because he based much of the action of his books on actual events.  For example, some of the episodes of Jack Aubrey's career are based on the life of the famous frigate captain, Lord Cochrane.  O'Brian excels also in his depiction of characters.  His ability to develop psychologically creditable characters through a combination of dialogue, comments by other characters, and description is tremendous.  O'Brien's interest in psychology went well beyond normal character development, some books contain excellent case studies of anxiety, depression, and mania.<br /> Reading O'Brien gives vivid view of the early 19th century.  The historian Bernard Bailyn, writing of colonial America, stated once that the 18th century world was not only pre-industrial but also pre-humanitarian (paraphrase).  This is true as well for the early 19th century depicted by O'Brien.  The casual and invariable presence of violence, brutality, and death is a theme running through all the books.  The constant threats to life are the product not only of natural forces beyond human control, particularly the weather and disease, but also of relative human indifference to suffering.  There is nothing particularly romantic about the world O'Brien describes but it also a certain grim grandeur.  O'Brien also shows the somewhat transitional nature of the early 19th century.  The British Navy and its vessals were the apogee of what could be achieved by pre-industrial technology.  This is true both of the technology itself and the social organization needed to produce and use the massive sailing vessals.  Aubrey's navy is an organization reflecting its society; an order based on deference, rigid hierarchy, primitive notions of honor, favoritism, and very, very corrupt.  At the same time, it was one of the largest and most effective bureaucracies in human history to that time.  The nature of service exacted great penalities for failure in a particularly environment, and great success was rewarded greatly.  In some ways, it was a ruthless meritocracy whose structure and success anticipates the great expansion of government power and capacity seen in the rest of the 19th century.<br /> O'Brian is also the great writer about male friendship.  There are important female characters in these books but since most of the action takes place at sea, male characters predominate.  The friendship between Aubrey and Maturin is the central armature of the books and is a brilliant creation.  The position of women in these books is ambiguous.  There are sympathetic characters, notably Aubrey's long suffering wife.  Other women figures, notably Maturin's wife, leave a less positive impression.  On board ship, women tend to have a disruptive, even malign influence.<br /> How did O'Brian manage to sustain his achievement over 20 books?  Beyond his technical abilities as a writer and the instrinsic interest of the subject, O'Brien made a series of very intelligent choices.  He has not one but twomajor protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.<br /> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.major protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.  <BR> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.	2003-10-26
925460:US	50676891	RME8XUI05E17Q	0393310167	330760547	The Truelove (Aubrey / Maturin Novels, Vol. 15)	Books	5	23	27	N	N	Joint Review of All Aubrey-Maturin Books	Some critics have referred to the Aubrey/Maturin books as one long novel united not only by their historical setting but also by the central plot element of the Aubrey/Maturin friendship.  Having read these fine books over a period of several years, I decided to evaluate their cumulative integrity by reading them consecutively in order of publication over a period of a few weeks.  This turned out to be a rewarding enterprise.  For readers unfamiliar with these books, they describe the experiences of a Royal Navy officer and his close friend and traveling companion, a naval surgeon.  The experiences cover a broad swath of the Napoleonic Wars and virtually the whole globe.<br /> Rereading all the books confirmed that O'Brian is a superb writer and that his ability to evoke the past is outstanding.  O'Brian has numerous gifts as a writer.  He is the master of the long, careful description, and the short, telling episode.  His ability to construct ingenious but creditable plots is first-rate, probably because he based much of the action of his books on actual events.  For example, some of the episodes of Jack Aubrey's career are based on the life of the famous frigate captain, Lord Cochrane.  O'Brian excels also in his depiction of characters.  His ability to develop psychologically creditable characters through a combination of dialogue, comments by other characters, and description is tremendous.  O'Brien's interest in psychology went well beyond normal character development, some books contain excellent case studies of anxiety, depression, and mania.<br /> Reading O'Brien gives vivid view of the early 19th century.  The historian Bernard Bailyn, writing of colonial America, stated once that the 18th century world was not only pre-industrial but also pre-humanitarian (paraphrase).  This is true as well for the early 19th century depicted by O'Brien.  The casual and invariable presence of violence, brutality, and death is a theme running through all the books.  The constant threats to life are the product not only of natural forces beyond human control, particularly the weather and disease, but also of relative human indifference to suffering.  There is nothing particularly romantic about the world O'Brien describes but it also a certain grim grandeur.  O'Brien also shows the somewhat transitional nature of the early 19th century.  The British Navy and its vessals were the apogee of what could be achieved by pre-industrial technology.  This is true both of the technology itself and the social organization needed to produce and use the massive sailing vessals.  Aubrey's navy is an organization reflecting its society; an order based on deference, rigid hierarchy, primitive notions of honor, favoritism, and very, very corrupt.  At the same time, it was one of the largest and most effective bureaucracies in human history to that time.  The nature of service exacted great penalities for failure in a particularly environment, and great success was rewarded greatly.  In some ways, it was a ruthless meritocracy whose structure and success anticipates the great expansion of government power and capacity seen in the rest of the 19th century.<br /> O'Brian is also the great writer about male friendship.  There are important female characters in these books but since most of the action takes place at sea, male characters predominate.  The friendship between Aubrey and Maturin is the central armature of the books and is a brilliant creation.  The position of women in these books is ambiguous.  There are sympathetic characters, notably Aubrey's long suffering wife.  Other women figures, notably Maturin's wife, leave a less positive impression.  On board ship, women tend to have a disruptive, even malign influence.<br /> How did O'Brian manage to sustain his achievement over 20 books?  Beyond his technical abilities as a writer and the instrinsic interest of the subject, O'Brien made a series of very intelligent choices.  He has not one but twomajor protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.<br /> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.major protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.  <BR> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.	2003-10-26
925525:US	50676891	R2HBAQW55YO3V1	0393309606	628790405	The Reverse of the Medal (Vol. Book 11)  (Aubrey/Maturin Novels)	Books	5	44	48	N	N	Joint Review of All Aubrey-Maturin Books	Some critics have referred to the Aubrey/Maturin books as one long novel united not only by their historical setting but also by the central plot element of the Aubrey/Maturin friendship.  Having read these fine books over a period of several years, I decided to evaluate their cumulative integrity by reading them consecutively in order of publication over a period of a few weeks.  This turned out to be a rewarding enterprise.  For readers unfamiliar with these books, they describe the experiences of a Royal Navy officer and his close friend and traveling companion, a naval surgeon.  The experiences cover a broad swath of the Napoleonic Wars and virtually the whole globe.<br /> Rereading all the books confirmed that O'Brian is a superb writer and that his ability to evoke the past is outstanding.  O'Brian has numerous gifts as a writer.  He is the master of the long, careful description, and the short, telling episode.  His ability to construct ingenious but creditable plots is first-rate, probably because he based much of the action of his books on actual events.  For example, some of the episodes of Jack Aubrey's career are based on the life of the famous frigate captain, Lord Cochrane.  O'Brian excels also in his depiction of characters.  His ability to develop psychologically creditable characters through a combination of dialogue, comments by other characters, and description is tremendous.  O'Brien's interest in psychology went well beyond normal character development, some books contain excellent case studies of anxiety, depression, and mania.<br /> Reading O'Brien gives vivid view of the early 19th century.  The historian Bernard Bailyn, writing of colonial America, stated once that the 18th century world was not only pre-industrial but also pre-humanitarian (paraphrase).  This is true as well for the early 19th century depicted by O'Brien.  The casual and invariable presence of violence, brutality, and death is a theme running through all the books.  The constant threats to life are the product not only of natural forces beyond human control, particularly the weather and disease, but also of relative human indifference to suffering.  There is nothing particularly romantic about the world O'Brien describes but it also a certain grim grandeur.  O'Brien also shows the somewhat transitional nature of the early 19th century.  The British Navy and its vessals were the apogee of what could be achieved by pre-industrial technology.  This is true both of the technology itself and the social organization needed to produce and use the massive sailing vessals.  Aubrey's navy is an organization reflecting its society; an order based on deference, rigid hierarchy, primitive notions of honor, favoritism, and very, very corrupt.  At the same time, it was one of the largest and most effective bureaucracies in human history to that time.  The nature of service exacted great penalities for failure in a particularly environment, and great success was rewarded greatly.  In some ways, it was a ruthless meritocracy whose structure and success anticipates the great expansion of government power and capacity seen in the rest of the 19th century.<br /> O'Brian is also the great writer about male friendship.  There are important female characters in these books but since most of the action takes place at sea, male characters predominate.  The friendship between Aubrey and Maturin is the central armature of the books and is a brilliant creation.  The position of women in these books is ambiguous.  There are sympathetic characters, notably Aubrey's long suffering wife.  Other women figures, notably Maturin's wife, leave a less positive impression.  On board ship, women tend to have a disruptive, even malign influence.<br /> How did O'Brian manage to sustain his achievement over 20 books?  Beyond his technical abilities as a writer and the instrinsic interest of the subject, O'Brien made a series of very intelligent choices.  He has not one but twomajor protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.<br /> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.major protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.  <BR> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.	2003-10-26
925586:US	50676891	R8XDVJYIPNH6N	039330907X	966406311	The Thirteen-Gun Salute: Aubrey/Maturin	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Joint Review of All Aubrey-Maturin Books	Some critics have referred to the Aubrey/Maturin books as one long novel united not only by their historical setting but also by the central plot element of the Aubrey/Maturin friendship.  Having read these fine books over a period of several years, I decided to evaluate their cumulative integrity by reading them consecutively in order of publication over a period of a few weeks.  This turned out to be a rewarding enterprise.  For readers unfamiliar with these books, they describe the experiences of a Royal Navy officer and his close friend and traveling companion, a naval surgeon.  The experiences cover a broad swath of the Napoleonic Wars and virtually the whole globe.<br /> Rereading all the books confirmed that O'Brian is a superb writer and that his ability to evoke the past is outstanding.  O'Brian has numerous gifts as a writer.  He is the master of the long, careful description, and the short, telling episode.  His ability to construct ingenious but creditable plots is first-rate, probably because he based much of the action of his books on actual events.  For example, some of the episodes of Jack Aubrey's career are based on the life of the famous frigate captain, Lord Cochrane.  O'Brian excels also in his depiction of characters.  His ability to develop psychologically creditable characters through a combination of dialogue, comments by other characters, and description is tremendous.  O'Brien's interest in psychology went well beyond normal character development, some books contain excellent case studies of anxiety, depression, and mania.<br /> Reading O'Brien gives vivid view of the early 19th century.  The historian Bernard Bailyn, writing of colonial America, stated once that the 18th century world was not only pre-industrial but also pre-humanitarian (paraphrase).  This is true as well for the early 19th century depicted by O'Brien.  The casual and invariable presence of violence, brutality, and death is a theme running through all the books.  The constant threats to life are the product not only of natural forces beyond human control, particularly the weather and disease, but also of relative human indifference to suffering.  There is nothing particularly romantic about the world O'Brien describes but it also a certain grim grandeur.  O'Brien also shows the somewhat transitional nature of the early 19th century.  The British Navy and its vessals were the apogee of what could be achieved by pre-industrial technology.  This is true both of the technology itself and the social organization needed to produce and use the massive sailing vessals.  Aubrey's navy is an organization reflecting its society; an order based on deference, rigid hierarchy, primitive notions of honor, favoritism, and very, very corrupt.  At the same time, it was one of the largest and most effective bureaucracies in human history to that time.  The nature of service exacted great penalities for failure in a particularly environment, and great success was rewarded greatly.  In some ways, it was a ruthless meritocracy whose structure and success anticipates the great expansion of government power and capacity seen in the rest of the 19th century.<br /> O'Brian is also the great writer about male friendship.  There are important female characters in these books but since most of the action takes place at sea, male characters predominate.  The friendship between Aubrey and Maturin is the central armature of the books and is a brilliant creation.  The position of women in these books is ambiguous.  There are sympathetic characters, notably Aubrey's long suffering wife.  Other women figures, notably Maturin's wife, leave a less positive impression.  On board ship, women tend to have a disruptive, even malign influence.<br /> How did O'Brian manage to sustain his achievement over 20 books?  Beyond his technical abilities as a writer and the instrinsic interest of the subject, O'Brien made a series of very intelligent choices.  He has not one but twomajor protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.<br /> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.major protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.  <BR> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.	2003-10-26
925591:US	50676891	R2H4YVCDHOJSZO	0393314596	353156139	The Commodore (Vol. Book 17)  (Aubrey/Maturin Novels)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Joint Review of All Aubrey-Maturin Books	Some critics have referred to the Aubrey/Maturin books as one long novel united not only by their historical setting but also by the central plot element of the Aubrey/Maturin friendship.  Having read these fine books over a period of several years, I decided to evaluate their cumulative integrity by reading them consecutively in order of publication over a period of a few weeks.  This turned out to be a rewarding enterprise.  For readers unfamiliar with these books, they describe the experiences of a Royal Navy officer and his close friend and traveling companion, a naval surgeon.  The experiences cover a broad swath of the Napoleonic Wars and virtually the whole globe.<br /> Rereading all the books confirmed that O'Brian is a superb writer and that his ability to evoke the past is outstanding.  O'Brian has numerous gifts as a writer.  He is the master of the long, careful description, and the short, telling episode.  His ability to construct ingenious but creditable plots is first-rate, probably because he based much of the action of his books on actual events.  For example, some of the episodes of Jack Aubrey's career are based on the life of the famous frigate captain, Lord Cochrane.  O'Brian excels also in his depiction of characters.  His ability to develop psychologically creditable characters through a combination of dialogue, comments by other characters, and description is tremendous.  O'Brien's interest in psychology went well beyond normal character development, some books contain excellent case studies of anxiety, depression, and mania.<br /> Reading O'Brien gives vivid view of the early 19th century.  The historian Bernard Bailyn, writing of colonial America, stated once that the 18th century world was not only pre-industrial but also pre-humanitarian (paraphrase).  This is true as well for the early 19th century depicted by O'Brien.  The casual and invariable presence of violence, brutality, and death is a theme running through all the books.  The constant threats to life are the product not only of natural forces beyond human control, particularly the weather and disease, but also of relative human indifference to suffering.  There is nothing particularly romantic about the world O'Brien describes but it also a certain grim grandeur.  O'Brien also shows the somewhat transitional nature of the early 19th century.  The British Navy and its vessals were the apogee of what could be achieved by pre-industrial technology.  This is true both of the technology itself and the social organization needed to produce and use the massive sailing vessals.  Aubrey's navy is an organization reflecting its society; an order based on deference, rigid hierarchy, primitive notions of honor, favoritism, and very, very corrupt.  At the same time, it was one of the largest and most effective bureaucracies in human history to that time.  The nature of service exacted great penalities for failure in a particularly environment, and great success was rewarded greatly.  In some ways, it was a ruthless meritocracy whose structure and success anticipates the great expansion of government power and capacity seen in the rest of the 19th century.<br /> O'Brian is also the great writer about male friendship.  There are important female characters in these books but since most of the action takes place at sea, male characters predominate.  The friendship between Aubrey and Maturin is the central armature of the books and is a brilliant creation.  The position of women in these books is ambiguous.  There are sympathetic characters, notably Aubrey's long suffering wife.  Other women figures, notably Maturin's wife, leave a less positive impression.  On board ship, women tend to have a disruptive, even malign influence.<br /> How did O'Brian manage to sustain his achievement over 20 books?  Beyond his technical abilities as a writer and the instrinsic interest of the subject, O'Brien made a series of very intelligent choices.  He has not one but twomajor protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.<br /> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.major protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.  <BR> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.	2003-10-26
925593:US	50676891	R29YXUDV7Y0SI1	0393317048	452962366	The Yellow Admiral (Vol. Book 18)  (Aubrey/Maturin Novels)	Books	5	12	17	N	N	Joint Review of All Aubrey-Maturin Books	Some critics have referred to the Aubrey/Maturin books as one long novel united not only by their historical setting but also by the central plot element of the Aubrey/Maturin friendship.  Having read these fine books over a period of several years, I decided to evaluate their cumulative integrity by reading them consecutively in order of publication over a period of a few weeks.  This turned out to be a rewarding enterprise.  For readers unfamiliar with these books, they describe the experiences of a Royal Navy officer and his close friend and traveling companion, a naval surgeon.  The experiences cover a broad swath of the Napoleonic Wars and virtually the whole globe.<br /> Rereading all the books confirmed that O'Brian is a superb writer and that his ability to evoke the past is outstanding.  O'Brian has numerous gifts as a writer.  He is the master of the long, careful description, and the short, telling episode.  His ability to construct ingenious but creditable plots is first-rate, probably because he based much of the action of his books on actual events.  For example, some of the episodes of Jack Aubrey's career are based on the life of the famous frigate captain, Lord Cochrane.  O'Brian excels also in his depiction of characters.  His ability to develop psychologically creditable characters through a combination of dialogue, comments by other characters, and description is tremendous.  O'Brien's interest in psychology went well beyond normal character development, some books contain excellent case studies of anxiety, depression, and mania.<br /> Reading O'Brien gives vivid view of the early 19th century.  The historian Bernard Bailyn, writing of colonial America, stated once that the 18th century world was not only pre-industrial but also pre-humanitarian (paraphrase).  This is true as well for the early 19th century depicted by O'Brien.  The casual and invariable presence of violence, brutality, and death is a theme running through all the books.  The constant threats to life are the product not only of natural forces beyond human control, particularly the weather and disease, but also of relative human indifference to suffering.  There is nothing particularly romantic about the world O'Brien describes but it also a certain grim grandeur.  O'Brien also shows the somewhat transitional nature of the early 19th century.  The British Navy and its vessals were the apogee of what could be achieved by pre-industrial technology.  This is true both of the technology itself and the social organization needed to produce and use the massive sailing vessals.  Aubrey's navy is an organization reflecting its society; an order based on deference, rigid hierarchy, primitive notions of honor, favoritism, and very, very corrupt.  At the same time, it was one of the largest and most effective bureaucracies in human history to that time.  The nature of service exacted great penalities for failure in a particularly environment, and great success was rewarded greatly.  In some ways, it was a ruthless meritocracy whose structure and success anticipates the great expansion of government power and capacity seen in the rest of the 19th century.<br /> O'Brian is also the great writer about male friendship.  There are important female characters in these books but since most of the action takes place at sea, male characters predominate.  The friendship between Aubrey and Maturin is the central armature of the books and is a brilliant creation.  The position of women in these books is ambiguous.  There are sympathetic characters, notably Aubrey's long suffering wife.  Other women figures, notably Maturin's wife, leave a less positive impression.  On board ship, women tend to have a disruptive, even malign influence.<br /> How did O'Brian manage to sustain his achievement over 20 books?  Beyond his technical abilities as a writer and the instrinsic interest of the subject, O'Brien made a series of very intelligent choices.  He has not one but twomajor protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.<br /> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.major protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.  <BR> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.	2003-10-26
925616:US	50676891	R29FV91CJVY6KW	0393307050	680723399	Master and Commander	Books	5	469	493	N	N	Joint Review of All Aubrey-Maturin Books	Some critics have referred to the Aubrey/Maturin books as one long novel united not only by their historical setting but also by the central plot element of the Aubrey/Maturin friendship.  Having read these fine books over a period of several years, I decided to evaluate their cumulative integrity by reading them consecutively in order of publication over a period of a few weeks.  This turned out to be a rewarding enterprise.  For readers unfamiliar with these books, they describe the experiences of a Royal Navy officer and his close friend and traveling companion, a naval surgeon.  The experiences cover a broad swath of the Napoleonic Wars and virtually the whole globe.<br /> Rereading all the books confirmed that O'Brian is a superb writer and that his ability to evoke the past is outstanding.  O'Brian has numerous gifts as a writer.  He is the master of the long, careful description, and the short, telling episode.  His ability to construct ingenious but creditable plots is first-rate, probably because he based much of the action of his books on actual events.  For example, some of the episodes of Jack Aubrey's career are based on the life of the famous frigate captain, Lord Cochrane.  O'Brian excels also in his depiction of characters.  His ability to develop psychologically creditable characters through a combination of dialogue, comments by other characters, and description is tremendous.  O'Brien's interest in psychology went well beyond normal character development, some books contain excellent case studies of anxiety, depression, and mania.<br /> Reading O'Brien gives vivid view of the early 19th century.  The historian Bernard Bailyn, writing of colonial America, stated once that the 18th century world was not only pre-industrial but also pre-humanitarian (paraphrase).  This is true as well for the early 19th century depicted by O'Brien.  The casual and invariable presence of violence, brutality, and death is a theme running through all the books.  The constant threats to life are the product not only of natural forces beyond human control, particularly the weather and disease, but also of relative human indifference to suffering.  There is nothing particularly romantic about the world O'Brien describes but it also a certain grim grandeur.  O'Brien also shows the somewhat transitional nature of the early 19th century.  The British Navy and its vessals were the apogee of what could be achieved by pre-industrial technology.  This is true both of the technology itself and the social organization needed to produce and use the massive sailing vessals.  Aubrey's navy is an organization reflecting its society; an order based on deference, rigid hierarchy, primitive notions of honor, favoritism, and very, very corrupt.  At the same time, it was one of the largest and most effective bureaucracies in human history to that time.  The nature of service exacted great penalities for failure in a particularly environment, and great success was rewarded greatly.  In some ways, it was a ruthless meritocracy whose structure and success anticipates the great expansion of government power and capacity seen in the rest of the 19th century.<br /> O'Brian is also the great writer about male friendship.  There are important female characters in these books but since most of the action takes place at sea, male characters predominate.  The friendship between Aubrey and Maturin is the central armature of the books and is a brilliant creation.  The position of women in these books is ambiguous.  There are sympathetic characters, notably Aubrey's long suffering wife.  Other women figures, notably Maturin's wife, leave a less positive impression.  On board ship, women tend to have a disruptive, even malign influence.<br /> How did O'Brian manage to sustain his achievement over 20 books?  Beyond his technical abilities as a writer and the instrinsic interest of the subject, O'Brien made a series of very intelligent choices.  He has not one but twomajor protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.<br /> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.major protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.  <BR> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.	2003-10-26
925767:US	50676891	R3OTDHQZ3CK63C	0393312445	931588569	The Wine-Dark Sea (Vol. Book 16)  (Aubrey/Maturin Novels)	Books	5	12	18	N	N	Joint Review of All Aubrey-Maturin Books	Some critics have referred to the Aubrey/Maturin books as one long novel united not only by their historical setting but also by the central plot element of the Aubrey/Maturin friendship.  Having read these fine books over a period of several years, I decided to evaluate their cumulative integrity by reading them consecutively in order of publication over a period of a few weeks.  This turned out to be a rewarding enterprise.  For readers unfamiliar with these books, they describe the experiences of a Royal Navy officer and his close friend and traveling companion, a naval surgeon.  The experiences cover a broad swath of the Napoleonic Wars and virtually the whole globe.<br /> Rereading all the books confirmed that O'Brian is a superb writer and that his ability to evoke the past is outstanding.  O'Brian has numerous gifts as a writer.  He is the master of the long, careful description, and the short, telling episode.  His ability to construct ingenious but creditable plots is first-rate, probably because he based much of the action of his books on actual events.  For example, some of the episodes of Jack Aubrey's career are based on the life of the famous frigate captain, Lord Cochrane.  O'Brian excels also in his depiction of characters.  His ability to develop psychologically creditable characters through a combination of dialogue, comments by other characters, and description is tremendous.  O'Brien's interest in psychology went well beyond normal character development, some books contain excellent case studies of anxiety, depression, and mania.<br /> Reading O'Brien gives vivid view of the early 19th century.  The historian Bernard Bailyn, writing of colonial America, stated once that the 18th century world was not only pre-industrial but also pre-humanitarian (paraphrase).  This is true as well for the early 19th century depicted by O'Brien.  The casual and invariable presence of violence, brutality, and death is a theme running through all the books.  The constant threats to life are the product not only of natural forces beyond human control, particularly the weather and disease, but also of relative human indifference to suffering.  There is nothing particularly romantic about the world O'Brien describes but it also a certain grim grandeur.  O'Brien also shows the somewhat transitional nature of the early 19th century.  The British Navy and its vessals were the apogee of what could be achieved by pre-industrial technology.  This is true both of the technology itself and the social organization needed to produce and use the massive sailing vessals.  Aubrey's navy is an organization reflecting its society; an order based on deference, rigid hierarchy, primitive notions of honor, favoritism, and very, very corrupt.  At the same time, it was one of the largest and most effective bureaucracies in human history to that time.  The nature of service exacted great penalities for failure in a particularly environment, and great success was rewarded greatly.  In some ways, it was a ruthless meritocracy whose structure and success anticipates the great expansion of government power and capacity seen in the rest of the 19th century.<br /> O'Brian is also the great writer about male friendship.  There are important female characters in these books but since most of the action takes place at sea, male characters predominate.  The friendship between Aubrey and Maturin is the central armature of the books and is a brilliant creation.  The position of women in these books is ambiguous.  There are sympathetic characters, notably Aubrey's long suffering wife.  Other women figures, notably Maturin's wife, leave a less positive impression.  On board ship, women tend to have a disruptive, even malign influence.<br /> How did O'Brian manage to sustain his achievement over 20 books?  Beyond his technical abilities as a writer and the instrinsic interest of the subject, O'Brien made a series of very intelligent choices.  He has not one but twomajor protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.<br /> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.major protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.  <BR> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.	2003-10-26
925817:US	50676891	R2UMYMQHP7UYK1	0393308634	214446983	Treason's Harbour (Vol. Book 9)  (Aubrey/Maturin Novels)	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Joint Review of Aubrey-Maturin Books	Some critics have referred to the Aubrey/Maturin books as one long novel united not only by their historical setting but also by the central plot element of the Aubrey/Maturin friendship.  Having read these fine books over a period of several years, I decided to evaluate their cumulative integrity by reading them consecutively in order of publication over a period of a few weeks.  This turned out to be a rewarding enterprise.  For readers unfamiliar with these books, they describe the experiences of a Royal Navy officer and his close friend and traveling companion, a naval surgeon.  The experiences cover a broad swath of the Napoleonic Wars and virtually the whole globe.<br /> Rereading all the books confirmed that O'Brian is a superb writer and that his ability to evoke the past is outstanding.  O'Brian has numerous gifts as a writer.  He is the master of the long, careful description, and the short, telling episode.  His ability to construct ingenious but creditable plots is first-rate, probably because he based much of the action of his books on actual events.  For example, some of the episodes of Jack Aubrey's career are based on the life of the famous frigate captain, Lord Cochrane.  O'Brian excels also in his depiction of characters.  His ability to develop psychologically creditable characters through a combination of dialogue, comments by other characters, and description is tremendous.  O'Brien's interest in psychology went well beyond normal character development, some books contain excellent case studies of anxiety, depression, and mania.<br /> Reading O'Brien gives vivid view of the early 19th century.  The historian Bernard Bailyn, writing of colonial America, stated once that the 18th century world was not only pre-industrial but also pre-humanitarian (paraphrase).  This is true as well for the early 19th century depicted by O'Brien.  The casual and invariable presence of violence, brutality, and death is a theme running through all the books.  The constant threats to life are the product not only of natural forces beyond human control, particularly the weather and disease, but also of relative human indifference to suffering.  There is nothing particularly romantic about the world O'Brien describes but it also a certain grim grandeur.  O'Brien also shows the somewhat transitional nature of the early 19th century.  The British Navy and its vessals were the apogee of what could be achieved by pre-industrial technology.  This is true both of the technology itself and the social organization needed to produce and use the massive sailing vessals.  Aubrey's navy is an organization reflecting its society; an order based on deference, rigid hierarchy, primitive notions of honor, favoritism, and very, very corrupt.  At the same time, it was one of the largest and most effective bureaucracies in human history to that time.  The nature of service exacted great penalities for failure in a particularly environment, and great success was rewarded greatly.  In some ways, it was a ruthless meritocracy whose structure and success anticipates the great expansion of government power and capacity seen in the rest of the 19th century.<br /> O'Brian is also the great writer about male friendship.  There are important female characters in these books but since most of the action takes place at sea, male characters predominate.  The friendship between Aubrey and Maturin is the central armature of the books and is a brilliant creation.  The position of women in these books is ambiguous.  There are sympathetic characters, notably Aubrey's long suffering wife.  Other women figures, notably Maturin's wife, leave a less positive impression.  On board ship, women tend to have a disruptive, even malign influence.<br /> How did O'Brian manage to sustain his achievement over 20 books?  Beyond his technical abilities as a writer and the instrinsic interest of the subject, O'Brien made a series of very intelligent choices.  He has not one but twomajor protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.<br /> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.major protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.  <BR> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.	2003-10-26
925842:US	50676891	R2KH7MKZYIWVXQ	0393308626	639608055	The Far Side of the World (Vol. Book 10)  (Aubrey/Maturin Novels)	Books	5	71	76	N	N	Joint Review of All Aubrey-Maturin Books	Some critics have referred to the Aubrey/Maturin books as one long novel united not only by their historical setting but also by the central plot element of the Aubrey/Maturin friendship.  Having read these fine books over a period of several years, I decided to evaluate their cumulative integrity by reading them consecutively in order of publication over a period of a few weeks.  This turned out to be a rewarding enterprise.  For readers unfamiliar with these books, they describe the experiences of a Royal Navy officer and his close friend and traveling companion, a naval surgeon.  The experiences cover a broad swath of the Napoleonic Wars and virtually the whole globe.<br /> Rereading all the books confirmed that O'Brian is a superb writer and that his ability to evoke the past is outstanding.  O'Brian has numerous gifts as a writer.  He is the master of the long, careful description, and the short, telling episode.  His ability to construct ingenious but creditable plots is first-rate, probably because he based much of the action of his books on actual events.  For example, some of the episodes of Jack Aubrey's career are based on the life of the famous frigate captain, Lord Cochrane.  O'Brian excels also in his depiction of characters.  His ability to develop psychologically creditable characters through a combination of dialogue, comments by other characters, and description is tremendous.  O'Brien's interest in psychology went well beyond normal character development, some books contain excellent case studies of anxiety, depression, and mania.<br /> Reading O'Brien gives vivid view of the early 19th century.  The historian Bernard Bailyn, writing of colonial America, stated once that the 18th century world was not only pre-industrial but also pre-humanitarian (paraphrase).  This is true as well for the early 19th century depicted by O'Brien.  The casual and invariable presence of violence, brutality, and death is a theme running through all the books.  The constant threats to life are the product not only of natural forces beyond human control, particularly the weather and disease, but also of relative human indifference to suffering.  There is nothing particularly romantic about the world O'Brien describes but it also a certain grim grandeur.  O'Brien also shows the somewhat transitional nature of the early 19th century.  The British Navy and its vessals were the apogee of what could be achieved by pre-industrial technology.  This is true both of the technology itself and the social organization needed to produce and use the massive sailing vessals.  Aubrey's navy is an organization reflecting its society; an order based on deference, rigid hierarchy, primitive notions of honor, favoritism, and very, very corrupt.  At the same time, it was one of the largest and most effective bureaucracies in human history to that time.  The nature of service exacted great penalities for failure in a particularly environment, and great success was rewarded greatly.  In some ways, it was a ruthless meritocracy whose structure and success anticipates the great expansion of government power and capacity seen in the rest of the 19th century.<br /> O'Brian is also the great writer about male friendship.  There are important female characters in these books but since most of the action takes place at sea, male characters predominate.  The friendship between Aubrey and Maturin is the central armature of the books and is a brilliant creation.  The position of women in these books is ambiguous.  There are sympathetic characters, notably Aubrey's long suffering wife.  Other women figures, notably Maturin's wife, leave a less positive impression.  On board ship, women tend to have a disruptive, even malign influence.<br /> How did O'Brian manage to sustain his achievement over 20 books?  Beyond his technical abilities as a writer and the instrinsic interest of the subject, O'Brien made a series of very intelligent choices.  He has not one but twomajor protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.<br /> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.major protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.  <BR> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.	2003-10-26
925874:US	50676891	R1FFKWTGR88R19	0393307611	952337324	H. M. S. Surprise (Aubrey / Maturin)	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Joint Review of All Aubrey-Maturin Books	Some critics have referred to the Aubrey/Maturin books as one long novel united not only by their historical setting but also by the central plot element of the Aubrey/Maturin friendship.  Having read these fine books over a period of several years, I decided to evaluate their cumulative integrity by reading them consecutively in order of publication over a period of a few weeks.  This turned out to be a rewarding enterprise.  For readers unfamiliar with these books, they describe the experiences of a Royal Navy officer and his close friend and traveling companion, a naval surgeon.  The experiences cover a broad swath of the Napoleonic Wars and virtually the whole globe.<br /> Rereading all the books confirmed that O'Brian is a superb writer and that his ability to evoke the past is outstanding.  O'Brian has numerous gifts as a writer.  He is the master of the long, careful description, and the short, telling episode.  His ability to construct ingenious but creditable plots is first-rate, probably because he based much of the action of his books on actual events.  For example, some of the episodes of Jack Aubrey's career are based on the life of the famous frigate captain, Lord Cochrane.  O'Brian excels also in his depiction of characters.  His ability to develop psychologically creditable characters through a combination of dialogue, comments by other characters, and description is tremendous.  O'Brien's interest in psychology went well beyond normal character development, some books contain excellent case studies of anxiety, depression, and mania.<br /> Reading O'Brien gives vivid view of the early 19th century.  The historian Bernard Bailyn, writing of colonial America, stated once that the 18th century world was not only pre-industrial but also pre-humanitarian (paraphrase).  This is true as well for the early 19th century depicted by O'Brien.  The casual and invariable presence of violence, brutality, and death is a theme running through all the books.  The constant threats to life are the product not only of natural forces beyond human control, particularly the weather and disease, but also of relative human indifference to suffering.  There is nothing particularly romantic about the world O'Brien describes but it also a certain grim grandeur.  O'Brien also shows the somewhat transitional nature of the early 19th century.  The British Navy and its vessals were the apogee of what could be achieved by pre-industrial technology.  This is true both of the technology itself and the social organization needed to produce and use the massive sailing vessals.  Aubrey's navy is an organization reflecting its society; an order based on deference, rigid hierarchy, primitive notions of honor, favoritism, and very, very corrupt.  At the same time, it was one of the largest and most effective bureaucracies in human history to that time.  The nature of service exacted great penalities for failure in a particularly environment, and great success was rewarded greatly.  In some ways, it was a ruthless meritocracy whose structure and success anticipates the great expansion of government power and capacity seen in the rest of the 19th century.<br /> O'Brian is also the great writer about male friendship.  There are important female characters in these books but since most of the action takes place at sea, male characters predominate.  The friendship between Aubrey and Maturin is the central armature of the books and is a brilliant creation.  The position of women in these books is ambiguous.  There are sympathetic characters, notably Aubrey's long suffering wife.  Other women figures, notably Maturin's wife, leave a less positive impression.  On board ship, women tend to have a disruptive, even malign influence.<br /> How did O'Brian manage to sustain his achievement over 20 books?  Beyond his technical abilities as a writer and the instrinsic interest of the subject, O'Brien made a series of very intelligent choices.  He has not one but twomajor protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.<br /> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.major protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.  <BR> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.	2003-10-26
926064:US	50676891	R1FV5K3Z68CZOX	0393307069	659543252	Post Captain (Aubrey/Maturin)	Books	5	175	182	N	N	Joint Review of All Aubrey-Maturin Books	Some critics have referred to the Aubrey/Maturin books as one long novel united not only by their historical setting but also by the central plot element of the Aubrey/Maturin friendship.  Having read these fine books over a period of several years, I decided to evaluate their cumulative integrity by reading them consecutively in order of publication over a period of a few weeks.  This turned out to be a rewarding enterprise.  For readers unfamiliar with these books, they describe the experiences of a Royal Navy officer and his close friend and traveling companion, a naval surgeon.  The experiences cover a broad swath of the Napoleonic Wars and virtually the whole globe.<br /> Rereading all the books confirmed that O'Brian is a superb writer and that his ability to evoke the past is outstanding.  O'Brian has numerous gifts as a writer.  He is the master of the long, careful description, and the short, telling episode.  His ability to construct ingenious but creditable plots is first-rate, probably because he based much of the action of his books on actual events.  For example, some of the episodes of Jack Aubrey's career are based on the life of the famous frigate captain, Lord Cochrane.  O'Brian excels also in his depiction of characters.  His ability to develop psychologically creditable characters through a combination of dialogue, comments by other characters, and description is tremendous.  O'Brien's interest in psychology went well beyond normal character development, some books contain excellent case studies of anxiety, depression, and mania.<br /> Reading O'Brien gives vivid view of the early 19th century.  The historian Bernard Bailyn, writing of colonial America, stated once that the 18th century world was not only pre-industrial but also pre-humanitarian (paraphrase).  This is true as well for the early 19th century depicted by O'Brien.  The casual and invariable presence of violence, brutality, and death is a theme running through all the books.  The constant threats to life are the product not only of natural forces beyond human control, particularly the weather and disease, but also of relative human indifference to suffering.  There is nothing particularly romantic about the world O'Brien describes but it also a certain grim grandeur.  O'Brien also shows the somewhat transitional nature of the early 19th century.  The British Navy and its vessals were the apogee of what could be achieved by pre-industrial technology.  This is true both of the technology itself and the social organization needed to produce and use the massive sailing vessals.  Aubrey's navy is an organization reflecting its society; an order based on deference, rigid hierarchy, primitive notions of honor, favoritism, and very, very corrupt.  At the same time, it was one of the largest and most effective bureaucracies in human history to that time.  The nature of service exacted great penalities for failure in a particularly environment, and great success was rewarded greatly.  In some ways, it was a ruthless meritocracy whose structure and success anticipates the great expansion of government power and capacity seen in the rest of the 19th century.<br /> O'Brian is also the great writer about male friendship.  There are important female characters in these books but since most of the action takes place at sea, male characters predominate.  The friendship between Aubrey and Maturin is the central armature of the books and is a brilliant creation.  The position of women in these books is ambiguous.  There are sympathetic characters, notably Aubrey's long suffering wife.  Other women figures, notably Maturin's wife, leave a less positive impression.  On board ship, women tend to have a disruptive, even malign influence.<br /> How did O'Brian manage to sustain his achievement over 20 books?  Beyond his technical abilities as a writer and the instrinsic interest of the subject, O'Brien made a series of very intelligent choices.  He has not one but twomajor protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.<br /> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.major protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.  <BR> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.	2003-10-26
926078:US	50676891	R3U8FNLP97V51P	0393309061	975966103	The Nutmeg of Consolation (Vol. Book 14)  (Aubrey/Maturin Novels)	Books	5	33	36	N	N	Joint Review of All Aubrey-Maturin Books	Some critics have referred to the Aubrey/Maturin books as one long novel united not only by their historical setting but also by the central plot element of the Aubrey/Maturin friendship.  Having read these fine books over a period of several years, I decided to evaluate their cumulative integrity by reading them consecutively in order of publication over a period of a few weeks.  This turned out to be a rewarding enterprise.  For readers unfamiliar with these books, they describe the experiences of a Royal Navy officer and his close friend and traveling companion, a naval surgeon.  The experiences cover a broad swath of the Napoleonic Wars and virtually the whole globe.<br /> Rereading all the books confirmed that O'Brian is a superb writer and that his ability to evoke the past is outstanding.  O'Brian has numerous gifts as a writer.  He is the master of the long, careful description, and the short, telling episode.  His ability to construct ingenious but creditable plots is first-rate, probably because he based much of the action of his books on actual events.  For example, some of the episodes of Jack Aubrey's career are based on the life of the famous frigate captain, Lord Cochrane.  O'Brian excels also in his depiction of characters.  His ability to develop psychologically creditable characters through a combination of dialogue, comments by other characters, and description is tremendous.  O'Brien's interest in psychology went well beyond normal character development, some books contain excellent case studies of anxiety, depression, and mania.<br /> Reading O'Brien gives vivid view of the early 19th century.  The historian Bernard Bailyn, writing of colonial America, stated once that the 18th century world was not only pre-industrial but also pre-humanitarian (paraphrase).  This is true as well for the early 19th century depicted by O'Brien.  The casual and invariable presence of violence, brutality, and death is a theme running through all the books.  The constant threats to life are the product not only of natural forces beyond human control, particularly the weather and disease, but also of relative human indifference to suffering.  There is nothing particularly romantic about the world O'Brien describes but it also a certain grim grandeur.  O'Brien also shows the somewhat transitional nature of the early 19th century.  The British Navy and its vessals were the apogee of what could be achieved by pre-industrial technology.  This is true both of the technology itself and the social organization needed to produce and use the massive sailing vessals.  Aubrey's navy is an organization reflecting its society; an order based on deference, rigid hierarchy, primitive notions of honor, favoritism, and very, very corrupt.  At the same time, it was one of the largest and most effective bureaucracies in human history to that time.  The nature of service exacted great penalities for failure in a particularly environment, and great success was rewarded greatly.  In some ways, it was a ruthless meritocracy whose structure and success anticipates the great expansion of government power and capacity seen in the rest of the 19th century.<br /> O'Brian is also the great writer about male friendship.  There are important female characters in these books but since most of the action takes place at sea, male characters predominate.  The friendship between Aubrey and Maturin is the central armature of the books and is a brilliant creation.  The position of women in these books is ambiguous.  There are sympathetic characters, notably Aubrey's long suffering wife.  Other women figures, notably Maturin's wife, leave a less positive impression.  On board ship, women tend to have a disruptive, even malign influence.<br /> How did O'Brian manage to sustain his achievement over 20 books?  Beyond his technical abilities as a writer and the instrinsic interest of the subject, O'Brien made a series of very intelligent choices.  He has not one but twomajor protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.<br /> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.major protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.  <BR> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.	2003-10-26
926095:US	50676891	R7O8HDB1MLDSP	0393308200	80327911	The Surgeon's Mate (Aubrey/Maturin)	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Joint Review of All Aubrey-Maturin Books	Some critics have referred to the Aubrey/Maturin books as one long novel united not only by their historical setting but also by the central plot element of the Aubrey/Maturin friendship.  Having read these fine books over a period of several years, I decided to evaluate their cumulative integrity by reading them consecutively in order of publication over a period of a few weeks.  This turned out to be a rewarding enterprise.  For readers unfamiliar with these books, they describe the experiences of a Royal Navy officer and his close friend and traveling companion, a naval surgeon.  The experiences cover a broad swath of the Napoleonic Wars and virtually the whole globe.<br /> Rereading all the books confirmed that O'Brian is a superb writer and that his ability to evoke the past is outstanding.  O'Brian has numerous gifts as a writer.  He is the master of the long, careful description, and the short, telling episode.  His ability to construct ingenious but creditable plots is first-rate, probably because he based much of the action of his books on actual events.  For example, some of the episodes of Jack Aubrey's career are based on the life of the famous frigate captain, Lord Cochrane.  O'Brian excels also in his depiction of characters.  His ability to develop psychologically creditable characters through a combination of dialogue, comments by other characters, and description is tremendous.  O'Brien's interest in psychology went well beyond normal character development, some books contain excellent case studies of anxiety, depression, and mania.<br /> Reading O'Brien gives vivid view of the early 19th century.  The historian Bernard Bailyn, writing of colonial America, stated once that the 18th century world was not only pre-industrial but also pre-humanitarian (paraphrase).  This is true as well for the early 19th century depicted by O'Brien.  The casual and invariable presence of violence, brutality, and death is a theme running through all the books.  The constant threats to life are the product not only of natural forces beyond human control, particularly the weather and disease, but also of relative human indifference to suffering.  There is nothing particularly romantic about the world O'Brien describes but it also a certain grim grandeur.  O'Brien also shows the somewhat transitional nature of the early 19th century.  The British Navy and its vessals were the apogee of what could be achieved by pre-industrial technology.  This is true both of the technology itself and the social organization needed to produce and use the massive sailing vessals.  Aubrey's navy is an organization reflecting its society; an order based on deference, rigid hierarchy, primitive notions of honor, favoritism, and very, very corrupt.  At the same time, it was one of the largest and most effective bureaucracies in human history to that time.  The nature of service exacted great penalities for failure in a particularly environment, and great success was rewarded greatly.  In some ways, it was a ruthless meritocracy whose structure and success anticipates the great expansion of government power and capacity seen in the rest of the 19th century.<br /> O'Brian is also the great writer about male friendship.  There are important female characters in these books but since most of the action takes place at sea, male characters predominate.  The friendship between Aubrey and Maturin is the central armature of the books and is a brilliant creation.  The position of women in these books is ambiguous.  There are sympathetic characters, notably Aubrey's long suffering wife.  Other women figures, notably Maturin's wife, leave a less positive impression.  On board ship, women tend to have a disruptive, even malign influence.<br /> How did O'Brian manage to sustain his achievement over 20 books?  Beyond his technical abilities as a writer and the instrinsic interest of the subject, O'Brien made a series of very intelligent choices.  He has not one but twomajor protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.<br /> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.major protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.  <BR> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.	2003-10-26
926198:US	50676891	R23QS8ZPVEHHEF	039330762X	350671306	The Mauritius Command (Aubrey/Maturin )	Books	5	76	78	N	N	Joint Review of All Aubrey-Maturin Books	Some critics have referred to the Aubrey/Maturin books as one long novel united not only by their historical setting but also by the central plot element of the Aubrey/Maturin friendship.  Having read these fine books over a period of several years, I decided to evaluate their cumulative integrity by reading them consecutively in order of publication over a period of a few weeks.  This turned out to be a rewarding enterprise.  For readers unfamiliar with these books, they describe the experiences of a Royal Navy officer and his close friend and traveling companion, a naval surgeon.  The experiences cover a broad swath of the Napoleonic Wars and virtually the whole globe.<br /> Rereading all the books confirmed that O'Brian is a superb writer and that his ability to evoke the past is outstanding.  O'Brian has numerous gifts as a writer.  He is the master of the long, careful description, and the short, telling episode.  His ability to construct ingenious but creditable plots is first-rate, probably because he based much of the action of his books on actual events.  For example, some of the episodes of Jack Aubrey's career are based on the life of the famous frigate captain, Lord Cochrane.  O'Brian excels also in his depiction of characters.  His ability to develop psychologically creditable characters through a combination of dialogue, comments by other characters, and description is tremendous.  O'Brien's interest in psychology went well beyond normal character development, some books contain excellent case studies of anxiety, depression, and mania.<br /> Reading O'Brien gives vivid view of the early 19th century.  The historian Bernard Bailyn, writing of colonial America, stated once that the 18th century world was not only pre-industrial but also pre-humanitarian (paraphrase).  This is true as well for the early 19th century depicted by O'Brien.  The casual and invariable presence of violence, brutality, and death is a theme running through all the books.  The constant threats to life are the product not only of natural forces beyond human control, particularly the weather and disease, but also of relative human indifference to suffering.  There is nothing particularly romantic about the world O'Brien describes but it also a certain grim grandeur.  O'Brien also shows the somewhat transitional nature of the early 19th century.  The British Navy and its vessals were the apogee of what could be achieved by pre-industrial technology.  This is true both of the technology itself and the social organization needed to produce and use the massive sailing vessals.  Aubrey's navy is an organization reflecting its society; an order based on deference, rigid hierarchy, primitive notions of honor, favoritism, and very, very corrupt.  At the same time, it was one of the largest and most effective bureaucracies in human history to that time.  The nature of service exacted great penalities for failure in a particularly environment, and great success was rewarded greatly.  In some ways, it was a ruthless meritocracy whose structure and success anticipates the great expansion of government power and capacity seen in the rest of the 19th century.<br /> O'Brian is also the great writer about male friendship.  There are important female characters in these books but since most of the action takes place at sea, male characters predominate.  The friendship between Aubrey and Maturin is the central armature of the books and is a brilliant creation.  The position of women in these books is ambiguous.  There are sympathetic characters, notably Aubrey's long suffering wife.  Other women figures, notably Maturin's wife, leave a less positive impression.  On board ship, women tend to have a disruptive, even malign influence.<br /> How did O'Brian manage to sustain his achievement over 20 books?  Beyond his technical abilities as a writer and the instrinsic interest of the subject, O'Brien made a series of very intelligent choices.  He has not one but twomajor protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.<br /> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.major protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.  <BR> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.	2003-10-26
926242:US	50676891	R3266BYT41MYTS	0393308219	982272906	The Ionian Mission (Vol. Book 8)  (Aubrey/Maturin Novels)	Books	5	31	36	N	N	Joint Review of All Aubrey-Maturin Books	Some critics have referred to the Aubrey/Maturin books as one long novel united not only by their historical setting but also by the central plot element of the Aubrey/Maturin friendship.  Having read these fine books over a period of several years, I decided to evaluate their cumulative integrity by reading them consecutively in order of publication over a period of a few weeks.  This turned out to be a rewarding enterprise.  For readers unfamiliar with these books, they describe the experiences of a Royal Navy officer and his close friend and traveling companion, a naval surgeon.  The experiences cover a broad swath of the Napoleonic Wars and virtually the whole globe.<br /> Rereading all the books confirmed that O'Brian is a superb writer and that his ability to evoke the past is outstanding.  O'Brian has numerous gifts as a writer.  He is the master of the long, careful description, and the short, telling episode.  His ability to construct ingenious but creditable plots is first-rate, probably because he based much of the action of his books on actual events.  For example, some of the episodes of Jack Aubrey's career are based on the life of the famous frigate captain, Lord Cochrane.  O'Brian excels also in his depiction of characters.  His ability to develop psychologically creditable characters through a combination of dialogue, comments by other characters, and description is tremendous.  O'Brien's interest in psychology went well beyond normal character development, some books contain excellent case studies of anxiety, depression, and mania.<br /> Reading O'Brien gives vivid view of the early 19th century.  The historian Bernard Bailyn, writing of colonial America, stated once that the 18th century world was not only pre-industrial but also pre-humanitarian (paraphrase).  This is true as well for the early 19th century depicted by O'Brien.  The casual and invariable presence of violence, brutality, and death is a theme running through all the books.  The constant threats to life are the product not only of natural forces beyond human control, particularly the weather and disease, but also of relative human indifference to suffering.  There is nothing particularly romantic about the world O'Brien describes but it also a certain grim grandeur.  O'Brien also shows the somewhat transitional nature of the early 19th century.  The British Navy and its vessals were the apogee of what could be achieved by pre-industrial technology.  This is true both of the technology itself and the social organization needed to produce and use the massive sailing vessals.  Aubrey's navy is an organization reflecting its society; an order based on deference, rigid hierarchy, primitive notions of honor, favoritism, and very, very corrupt.  At the same time, it was one of the largest and most effective bureaucracies in human history to that time.  The nature of service exacted great penalities for failure in a particularly environment, and great success was rewarded greatly.  In some ways, it was a ruthless meritocracy whose structure and success anticipates the great expansion of government power and capacity seen in the rest of the 19th century.<br /> O'Brian is also the great writer about male friendship.  There are important female characters in these books but since most of the action takes place at sea, male characters predominate.  The friendship between Aubrey and Maturin is the central armature of the books and is a brilliant creation.  The position of women in these books is ambiguous.  There are sympathetic characters, notably Aubrey's long suffering wife.  Other women figures, notably Maturin's wife, leave a less positive impression.  On board ship, women tend to have a disruptive, even malign influence.<br /> How did O'Brian manage to sustain his achievement over 20 books?  Beyond his technical abilities as a writer and the instrinsic interest of the subject, O'Brien made a series of very intelligent choices.  He has not one but twomajor protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.<br /> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.major protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.<br /> Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.	2003-10-26
934356:US	50676891	RNMJ2THWESRYF	0380979020	547078013	Paladin of Souls: A Novel	Books	3	6	17	N	N	Competent	This is a solid fantasy novel.  The base of the plot is conventional but developed in greater detail than most such books.  Bujold has created a world in which the supernatural directly contacts the material world and develops a mythic-theological structure in a fairly rigorous way.  The plot itself is based on a clever combination of the sleeping beauty and doppelganger stories.  The main character undergoes a trial that is an act of personal redemption that mirrors a prior mistaken action.  The quality of writing, however, is not outstanding.  Some aspects of the story resemble a romance novel and sections are redundant.  Another defect is that this book is a sequel and reading the prior book, The Curse of Chalion, is necessary to understand the background and characters in this book.	2003-10-19
935053:US	50676891	R34GZI9DZ2A97E	0465061508	59964273	A Problem from Hell: America and the Age of Genocide	Books	5	44	48	N	N	Chastening	This powerful and chastening book is a detailed account of American official responses to the recurrent genocides of the 20th century.  Power begins with the slaughter of the Armenians by Turkish nationalists in WWI, goes through the Holocaust, Cambodia, Rwanda, Saddam Hussein's attack on the Kurds, and the disasters that followed the dissolution of Yugoslavia.  Much of the book is a detailed analysis of American response to the more recent events, notably Cambodia, Rwanda, Iraq, Bosnia, and Kosovo.  For the sake of completeness, I'd like to mention that Power doesn't cover all the genocides of the last century.  The massacres in Burundi and the mass killings in East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) are barely mentioned.<br />What did the US do about these atrocities?  The short answer is that US policy has been consistently not to do much of anything about these events.  This has been true regardless of which party has been in power and regardless of whether administrations have been relatively liberal or conservative.  Even worse, there are several examples of American administrations either implicitly (Cambodia) or explicitly (Hussein's Iraq) aiding governments engaged in genocidal activities.  The hypocrisy of several administrations is simply startling and has ironic dimensions.  Several important policy makers in the first Bush administration disparaged humanitarianism and support for human rights as appropriate responses to Saddam Hussein's genocidal attacks on the Kurds on northern Iraq.  Some of these individuals are now prominent in the present Bush administration and use humanitarian arguments to justify the present Iraq policy.  This type of hypocrisy is matched only by the behavior of the Clinton administration during the Rwanda and Bosnia crises.  This is a shameful record and many chapters make for very depressing reading.<br />It appears that it is very difficult to mobilize our system to do much about genocidal events.  Kosovo is an interesting counter-example.  Only when a number of important Clinton administration policy makers and members of Congress, and public opinion were in favor military intervention was it possible for efforts to be made to intervene successfully.  When only a few influential figures are in favor of intervention, it is hard to accomplish much.  Senator Dole, in probably the most distinguished episode of his long political career, was an outspoken advocate for the Bosnian Muslims.  Despite his considerable influence, there was little support for intervention in either his own party or the Clinton administration for appropriate intervention.<br />A good part of the book is devoted to the efforts of individuals in the US who attempt to persuade our governments to pursue more aggressive policies towards genocides.  What is striking is how isolated many of these individuals become.  The obessive Polish-American lawyer Raphael Lemkin, who coined the term genocide and worked tirelessly for international conventions against genocide,is the archetype of these individuals.  At this death, Lemkin was a penniless fringe figure.  What progress we have seen, howwver, is due in large part to the efforts of these quixotic people.<br />Power ends with a short final chapter that contains some actual policy prescriptions.  These are generally sensible, even modest, but hard to implement in our political system.  This is not an indictment of Power's suggestions but rather of a political system that doesn't place a great deal of value on human life.le.  Only when a number of important Clinton administration policy makers and members of Congress, and public opinion were in favor military intervention was it possible for efforts to be made to intervene successfully.  When only a few influential figures are in favor of intervention, it is hard to accomplish much.  Senator Dole, in probably the most distinguished episode of his long political career, was an outspoken advocate for the Bosnian Muslims.  Despite his considerable influence, there was little support for intervention in either his own party or the Clinton administration for appropriate intervention.  <BR>A good part of the book is devoted to the efforts of individuals in the US who attempt to persuade our governments to pursue more aggressive policies towards genocides.  What is striking is how isolated many of these individuals become.  The obessive Polish-American lawyer Raphael Lemkin, who coined the term genocide and worked tirelessly for international conventions against genocide,is the archetype of these individuals.  At this death, Lemkin was a penniless fringe figure.  What progress we have seen, howwver, is due in large part to the efforts of these quixotic people.  <BR>Power ends with a short final chapter that contains some actual policy prescriptions.  These are generally sensible, even modest, but hard to implement in our political system.  This is not an indictment of Power's suggestions but rather of a political system that doesn't place a great deal of value on human life.	2003-10-19
957400:US	50676891	RC8I2P5HMNU71	0786712325	892031765	Jefferson's War: America's First War on Terror 1801-1805	Books	1	41	75	N	N	Terrible Anachronisms and Omissions	This is a bad book.  Its not that the quality of writing is poor, while Wheelan's style is cliched he is not an incompetent writer, or that the author is being deliberately misleading.  The problem is that the author's desire to see the Barbary War as an analogue of our present situation has overpowered his critical judgement.  The Barbary War was not a war on terror in the modern sense.  Political terror, in the modern sense, is violent extralegal acts carried out for political ends.  In Iraq right now, terrorist acts are being committed to undermine the authority and chance of success of the American occupation.  The piracy of the Barbary states was primarily a commercial, not a political, enterprise. Similarly, the American intervention in the Mediterrenean was not primarly in defense of any &quot;principle&quot; but an effort to defend a major American industry.  Merchant shipping was tremendously important to the early American economy.  Far from being a new phenomenon in American history, the Barbary War was, like several of Jefferson's most successful policies, an extension of pre-existing Federalist policies.  During the Adams administration, the American Navy had been involved in an undeclared war in the Caribbean with French commerce raiders, the so-called Quasi-War.  As acknowledged by Wheelan, this was the first major episode in the history of the American Navy and as described by Elkins and McKitrick in their excellent book on the Federalist period, was essentially a war to keep down Marine insurance rates.  The Barbary intervention was a logical extension of Federalist policies about commercial protection.  If the Barbary intervention has a modern analogue, it would be the first Gulf War, which was fought not over the ostensible issue of Kuwaiti sovereignty but really over control of world oil prices.  I'm not trying to disparage either Jefferson's policies or those of the first Bush administration, these actions were completely justified, but not in the ways claimed by Wheelan.<br />There are a number of other problems with this book.  Wheelan continually contrasts the supine performance of European powers with American devotion to 'principles.'  His own narrative, however, shows that American governments frequently resorted to bribery and diplomacy when expedient.  Wheelan devotes a number of pages and considerable purple prose to the real crimes of the Barbary states, notably slave-taking.  The implication is that the Americans acted nobly in an effort to end this horrible practice which European states tolerated.  America at this time, however, undoubtedly contained more slaves than the Barbary states.  While importation of slaves into the USA was banned after 1800, American merchant shippers remained active in the African slave trade well after this date and neither the Jefferson administration nor later administrations made much effort to reduce American involvement in the African slave trade.  Principle appeared to matter only when signficant commerical interest was involved.  Wheelan implies also that European powers were unwilling to use force to suppress the piracy of Barbary states until after being shown how by the Americans.  A useful question is what the relevant European powers were doing during this period and specifically, where were their navies?  Though you would never know it from reading this book, almost all European nations were involved in the Napoleonic wars.  The French, and at various times, Dutch, Spanish, and Danish navies were being blockaded in their home ports by the British Navy.  The latter was the largest navy in the world and stretched to its maximum by demands of fighting the French.  As Wheelan points out, in 1815 the British return to active suppression of Barbary piracy.  This is not because of the example of American suppression but rather because 1815 is the definitive end of the Napoleonic conflicts and the British had the resources to expend on other activities.<br />Writing about history is supposed to be about understanding the past, not about justifying present policies./>Writing about history is supposed to be about understanding the past, not about justifying present policies.	2003-09-30
965966:US	50676891	R21RO2BL69B9HX	0271021926	686241689	A History of Argentina in the Twentieth Century	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Good But Not Enough Narrative	This book provides an overview of Argentine history in the 20th century with a post-script from just last year.  This book is combined narrative with a good deal of broad analysis looking at major factors governing the history of Argentina.  In the Introduction, the author states that he is aiming to avoid a schematic view but wants to provide a large scale narrative.  Despite this statement, this book tends towards structural analysis and a major theme, the difficulty of establishing democratic institutions, emerges from the narrative.  Major structural factors that drive Argentine history are identified as Argentina's strong and often stormy coupling to international markets, the emergence of a strong and at times paternalistic state that tended to overpower other civic institutions, the development of distinct sectors of society lacking a common political culture, and the Argentine preference for charismatic leaders who appear to be all things to all people.  In general, this is an informative and intelligent book.  A defect of the book is that there is not sufficient narrative for a non-Argentine audience.  This book was apparently written originally for the broad Argentine public and despite the author's best efforts at including significant narrative, it seems to presuppose a high school level knowledge of Argentine history.  Another drawback is the writing style.  As shown in several chapters, the author can write quite clearly and sometimes powerfully, but there are many passages written in academic jargon.  The word discourse, for example, appears frequently and is used inconsistently as a semi-techical term to describe ideology and a variety of related phenomena. Whether this is the fault of the author or his translator cannot be known without reading the original spanish version.	2003-09-23
977729:US	50676891	RAG9WYX4M09RD	0151009716	858404511	Changing Planes: Stories	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Good But Not Outstanding	This is a collection of sketches based on the clever conceit that bored airplane travelers can move from tedious airports to parallel worlds (planes).  Each of the stories is a sketch of some key feature of the plane being visited.  Several of the stories have a bit of an allegorical flavor, some are mildly satirical, and others feature interesting psychological issues.  LeGuin is an extremely talented writer and several of these stories are very enjoyable and all are worth reading.  None of these stories, however, comes close to LeGuin's best work.  For readers familiar with LeGuin, this is something of a disappointment.  Readers new to LeGuin who find this book enjoyable should pursue the LeGuin's older collections of stories, particularly those written 20 to 30 years, such as Orsinian Tales or the Compass Rose.	2003-09-13
984907:US	50676891	RDXXSM0ADGU46	076530192X	925649422	Wasteland of Flint	Books	2	5	14	N	N	Mediocre Space Opera	I have to give the author credit for trying.  This is a combination future history and Fred Saberhagen type ancient malignant forces in the universe story interlarded with Star Wars type mysticism.  The future history, a time line is which a combined Japanese-Aztec society conquered the Earth and now runs an interstellar empire, is probably the most interesting component.  It is presented obliquely as the background to the main action of the story and the reader has to exercise a bit of thought to infer the history of this society.  The main story, the efforts of the characters to avoid awaking terrible cosmic forces from a prior age of the galaxy, is a descendent of Saberhagen's Berserkers and is a fairly routine action story.  The elements of mysticism are simply silly and actually detract from the story.	2003-09-07
988048:US	50676891	R3DDJ12PDKIOIW	0802130119	778351106	The Master and Margarita	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The Original Magic Realist Work	This delightful and powerful novel was written when Stalin was subjecting Soviet society to the great purges that killed millions.  Bulgakov was fortunate to escape the fate of quite a number of his fellow writers.  The Master and Margarita is part fantasy, part allegory of persecution, and a wonderfully written book.  The motor of the plot is the idea that the Devil is loose in post-revolutionary Russia.  As with the so-called magical realist fiction from Latin America, these fantastic elements are treated in a matter of fact, realistic manner.  It is very funny.  Dealing with the nature of love and forgiveness, this is a very unlikely work to emerge from the grim prison of the Stalinist state.  While more recent translations have been praised, I find the Ginsburg translation to be very satisfactory	2003-09-04
996884:US	50676891	R28KQNRRT2G00Y	006019524X	822074804	Stalin's Last Crime: The Plot Against the Jewish Doctors, 1948-1953	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Interesting and Detailed Examination of Stalinist Terror	This is a fine-grained look at Stalinist terror.  Based on original archival research by the authors and additional new information published primarily by Russian scholars, this book is a careful examination of the so-called Doctor's Plot, the last gasp of Stalin's systematic terrorization of Soviet society.  The Doctor's Plot was a conspiracy fabricated by Soviet security organizations purporting to show an organized effort to undermine the Soviet State by destroying its leadership via negligent or murderous medical care.  The Plot was viewed previously as an irrational and relatively (compared to the great purges, executions, and deportations of the 20s and 30s) minor aspect of Stalinist state terror.  The authors argue that the Doctors' Plot was actually the likely prelude to a planned major convulsion that would reproduce many features of the great purges of the 30s.  This is impossible to prove definitively but the authors make a good case that the Doctors' Plot was developed carefully by Stalin to eventually start a series of purges and trials that would result in a large scale terrorization of Soviet society.  The authors also place the Plot in the context of other important Stalinist campaigns of the period, notably the anti-Semitic actions that preceded and are to some extent coincident with the events of the Doctors' Plot.  In this case, the attack would expand to involve a wholesale assault on Jewish citizens of the Soviet Union.  The authors conclude that Stalin pursued this end as a means of maintaining his absolute power and that only his death in 1953 prevented terrible atrocities on a scale with the crimes of the 20s and 30s.  The result probably would have been something similar to the Cultural Revolution in China.<br />A surprising aspect of the book is the apparent demonstration of how relatively difficult it was for Stalin to piece together the Plot.  The book contains fascinating details such as Stalin's dissatisfaction with coerced confessions because they were too inconsistent to be used for credible public show trials.  There are also remarkable episodes of some figures in the Soviet securiry organizations criticizing documentation of these purported crimes.  As the Soviet State matured, it appears that there were expectations that Soviet justice, claimed by Stalin to be essentially perfect, had to meet some realistic and rational expectations.  This type of relative resistance probably only increased Stalin's desire to unleash a major purge.<br />Some prior reviewers comment that this book is not smoothly written.  This is a fair comment as the authors use quotations from original documents and much of the text is a very careful analysis of the signficance of the original documents.  In my opinion, however, this approach enhances the value of the book.  The extensive quotations give readers a very good sense of the Kafkaesque and bizarrely bureaucratic nature of Soviet repression in a way that a more conventional approach cannot accomplish.<br />The book includes also a discussion of Stalin's death.  Following the suggestion of the American scholar Amy Wright, the authors argue that Stalin may have been poisoned by Lavrenti Beria, the out of favor former head of the security services, with the anti-coagulant warfarin.  This suggestion based on the fact that Stalin died from a cerebral hemorrhage and had a gastrointestinal hemorrhage during his final illness.  This is plausible but his final illness is typical of individuals dying from major hemorrhagic strokes and gastric erosions (so-called stress ulcers) are fairly common in acutely and severely ill individuals and may cause significant gastrointestinal bleeding.  It is more likely that Stalin died as a consequence of years of untreated hypertension.ecause they were too inconsistent to be used for credible public show trials.  There are also remarkable episodes of some figures in the Soviet securiry organizations criticizing documentation of these purported crimes.  As the Soviet State matured, it appears that there were expectations that Soviet justice, claimed by Stalin to be essentially perfect, had to meet some realistic and rational expectations.  This type of relative resistance probably only increased Stalin's desire to unleash a major purge.<BR>Some prior reviewers comment that this book is not smoothly written.  This is a fair comment as the authors use quotations from original documents and much of the text is a very careful analysis of the signficance of the original documents.  In my opinion, however, this approach enhances the value of the book.  The extensive quotations give readers a very good sense of the Kafkaesque and bizarrely bureaucratic nature of Soviet repression in a way that a more conventional approach cannot accomplish.  <BR>The book includes also a discussion of Stalin's death.  Following the suggestion of the American scholar Amy Wright, the authors argue that Stalin may have been poisoned by Lavrenti Beria, the out of favor former head of the security services, with the anti-coagulant warfarin.  This suggestion based on the fact that Stalin died from a cerebral hemorrhage and had a gastrointestinal hemorrhage during his final illness.  This is plausible but his final illness is typical of individuals dying from major hemorrhagic strokes and gastric erosions (so-called stress ulcers) are fairly common in acutely and severely ill individuals and may cause significant gastrointestinal bleeding.  It is more likely that Stalin died as a consequence of years of untreated hypertension.	2003-08-27
1003736:US	50676891	R2OHU1T2ZKBH33	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Too Clever by Half	This very popular book uses alternative ideas of the history of Christianity as the basis for the plot.  The author has taken a large number of crackpot ideas about the history of Christianity and European history in general and stitched them together to produce a conventional thriller.  In general, all these ideas center around the common theme of a hidden or secret history of Christianity suppressed by the Church.  The plot elements are cleverly integrated using a series of puzzles.  The overall story is cast as a kind of Grail legend with virtuous knight (a la Parsifal) and an evil sorcerer type (a la Klingsor).  The quality of writing, however, is poor.  The characters are schematic and exist only as devices to move from one gimmick to another.  The action of the plot per se is rather silly.  Not recommended, even for light reading.	2003-08-21
1010137:US	50676891	RA2797VWHTG9T	0300096933	131276839	Jonathan Edwards: A Life	Books	5	134	139	N	N	Outstanding	Jonathan Edwards was probably the most impressive American intellectual of the 18th century.  Not the best known, which would be Benjamin Franklin, or the most influential, which would be James Madison, but the individual with most impressive intellect and purely intellectual achievements.  Edwards' reputation today suffers because he was on the losing side, so to speak, of a pair of particularly important developments in American life.  In the Great Awakening that inaugurated modern American religous life, Edwards was an outspoken proponent of revivalism, but the ultimate emergence of a more democratic and less organized form of Protestantism ran counter to his essentially conservative form of Calvinism.  Edwards' conservative Calvinism led him also to oppose the rationalistic philosophy and theology of the Enlightenment that came to be such an important element of American life.  One of the great virtues of this outstanding biography is that it gives readers a vivid and unanachronistic understanding of how this powerful intellect ended up reaffirming doctrines that were coming to be regarded as outmoded by so many of his contemporaries.<br />Marsden shows Edwards' development as the son and grandson of learned Puritan clergymen, his immersion in the complicated theology of his branch of Calvinism, and his encounters with new intellectual currents emanating from Europe.  Marsden does a particularly good job of connecting Edwards' thought with the interesting circumstances of his social position.  Edwards was a child of the Puritan establishment of Colonial New England.  Edwards grew up at the apex of a rural society whose social organiztion was based on deference, with social position shaped by personal and family relationships to an extent largely unknown in modern society (though there are exceptions; see George Bush).  He was embedded in a strongly patriarchal family structure, with religion occupying a central position in society that would have been unusual even in contemporary Europe.  Edwards also inherited an intense sense of being part of a larger British and Protestant world.  The colonial New England of Edwards' time was not, however, impervious to outside influences.  The Puritans placed great emphasis on education, particularly for clergy, and by Edwards' youth, many Puritan clergy were familiar with intellectual developments in Europe.  Edwards was influenced by Locke's epistemology, was familiar with the work of Newton and later assimilated Newton into his theological work, and had a more positive view of the natural world than his 17th Puritan forebears.  He remained connected with European intellectual trends throughout his life.  It clear that he read Hume's Treatise at a time when it was ignored by most European intellectuals.<br /><br />The combination of his Puritan heritage and receptivity to new ideas makes Edwards a peculiarly transitional figure.  His life's work was to defend the sophisticated but demanding Calvinist theology and eschatology of his ancestors.  In so doing, he would incorporate Newton and borrow ideas from Locke, Hutcheson, and other philosophers of the Enlightenment.  He was an advocate of the Great Awakening that broke the fragile unity of New England Protestantism but but was unsympathetic to its increasingly influential anti-establishment elements.  Edwards produced a number of impressive treatises defending his views, though he did not live long enough to complete all his projected theological works.  If he had lived longer, he would have been the most systematic theologian since Aquinas.<br /><br />Marsden's biography is not just an account and exploration of Edwards' ideas.  Given the limited documentation about Edwards' personal life, this is also the story of Edwards' family life and pastoral work.  It is remarkable that a man who produced thousands of pages of written work was also an active minister serving a substantial congregation.  Edwards also devoted a good part of each day to contemplative activities.<br />This book is valuable also because it casts light on many important features of American history.  Marsden's goal is to tell Edwards' story in a way that will illuminate Colonial America in the first half of 18th century.  This book is instructive about religion, family life, education, Native American relations, and colonial politics.  For example, there is a brief but very interesting section on Edwards' attitude towards slavery.  This is an ambitious and superb piece of scholarship.day to contemplative activities.  <br />This book is valuable also because it casts light on many important features of American history.  Marsden's goal is to tell Edwards' story in a way that will illuminate Colonial America in the first half of 18th century.  This book is instructive about religion, family life, education, Native American relations, and colonial politics.  For example, there is a brief but very interesting section on Edwards' attitude towards slavery.  This is an ambitious and superb piece of scholarship.	2003-08-16
1018076:US	50676891	R3KLPIH4M7HP0C	0765300087	367042388	Kingdom River: Book Two of the Snowfall Trilogy	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Good Adventure Novel	This is a good adventure novel set in a future where the Earth is in the grip of an Ice Age.  Civilization has crumbled and been succeeded by a variety of pre-industrial societies.  This is the second book in a trilogy about North America.  This book is the story of an alliance between 2 of these societies against a third pre-industrial culture, a Mongol-like horde that has crossed Beringia to conquer western North America.  The story is a relatively conventional military campaign concluding with a reconstruction of the battle of Cannae. The plot has the usual romantic elements.  Smith does a good job of presenting believable characters and his future Earth is interesting and described well.  This book is not, however, as good as its predecessor, Snowfall.  The quality of writing and plotting is better in Snowfall, which has a less conventional story line and gives a better sense of life in a barbarous age.	2003-08-08
1033414:US	50676891	R29KR879M14OPD	019280300X	798543732	The Fall of France: The Nazi Invasion of 1940 (Making of the Modern World)	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Fine and Nuanced Analysis	This is an excellent book by a distinguished scholar of French history.  Relatively short at about 250 pages, the book provides a narrative of the fall of France, a thoughtful analysis of the pre-war French politics and society, a very nice concise history of the French Army leading up to the War, an insightful study of Franco-British relations, and a study of the response of the French populace to war.  The book concludes with a short section on the consequences for post-war France of the conquest and some historiographic analysis.  Jackson is a clear writer and the book is organized well.  Jackson is concerned particularly with examining prior explanations for the Fall of France.  One is that the Frence Army was overwhelmed by the superior Germans.  Jackson provides an excellent analysis of the weaknesses of the French Army, which are shown to be more organizational and doctrinal than technological.  It is clear also that the French Army suffered from poor leadership and spectacularly poor communications.  The best French formations fought German units to a standstill.  It was the French misfortune, a combination of luck for the Germans, bad judgement and intelligence on the part of the French, and excellent German leadership in the field, that the worst French units bore the brunt of the initial German assault.  Jackson deals with the question of whether defeat was preordained by the strains and divisions experienced by French society in the 1930s.  This is the so-called 'decadence' argument, a favorite of right wing ideologues, both during and after the war.  Jackson shows that despite the considerable difficulties imposed by the Depression and an unfavorable international situation, successive French governments did fairly well in re-equiping the French Army.  If the Germans had been stalemated in Belgium during the opening months of the war, which was the French plan, and which could have happened if the Germans hadn't altered their plans, French and British military production would have outstripped German armaments production.  The fault lines in French society and politics really mattered after the collapse of the French Army, resulting in a collaborationist government composed of reactionaries bent on purging French society of undesirable elements.  Jackson makes a series of interesting comparisons with the opening weeks of WWI and shows that, if anything, the government and military of pre-WWII France were better prepared for combat.  A combination of poor leadership and the speed of events prevented the French government and military from recovering after the initital setbacks.  If anything, Jackson is too- easy on the leadership of the French Army.  Not only did the French High Command botch the war, but with defeat looming, General Weygand and his fellows took the line that the Army embodied the real heart of the French nation and put maintaining the Army in some form above the civilian republic.  It is interesting to compare this book with Ernest May's Strange Victory, another recent book on this topic.  This is a much superior book.  May's book is longer, has less actual historical detail, and quite a bit of it is devoted to tendentious theorizing about decision making.  Jackson's nuanced account and analysis gives a much better view of the events and their background.ilitary production would have outstripped German armaments production.  The fault lines in French society and politics really mattered after the collapse of the French Army, resulting in a collaborationist government composed of reactionaries bent on purging French society of undesirable elements.  Jackson makes a series of interesting comparisons with the opening weeks of WWI and shows that, if anything, the government and military of pre-WWII France were better prepared for combat.  A combination of poor leadership and the speed of events prevented the French government and military from recovering after the initital setbacks.  If anything, Jackson is too- easy on the leadership of the French Army.  Not only did the French High Command botch the war, but with defeat looming, General Weygand and his fellows took the line that the Army embodied the real heart of the French nation and put maintaining the Army in some form above the civilian republic.  It is interesting to compare this book with Ernest May's Strange Victory, another recent book on this topic.  This is a much superior book.  May's book is longer, has less actual historical detail, and quite a bit of it is devoted to tendentious theorizing about decision making.  Jackson's nuanced account and analysis gives a much better view of the events and their background.	2003-07-27
1042243:US	50676891	RCG7F8FOXYXR6	0385496931	302329004	The Life of Thomas More	Books	5	78	80	N	N	A Penetrating and Artful Book	This is a first-rate biography of the sainted Thomas More.  Ackroyd's goals in this biography are to present a non-anachronistic depiction of More, and through his portrait of More, to give readers a sense of the late Medieval world destroyed by the Reformation and the emergence of nation-states.  Ackroyd presents More as a man exemplifying the late Medieval ethos.  Deeply religous, highly intelligent, and well educated, More existed with a profound sense of human fallibility and saw all aspects of his world as manifestations of a divine order.  The world as the body of Christ, a metaphor to which Ackroyd returns repeatedly, is a recurring theme.  The temporal world is transient and a necessary preparation for the eternal and in a crucial sense, less real than the eternal world of Christian teachings.  This world is bound by custom and inherited legal and religous traditions, hierarchial and paternalistic in its structure of authority, and deeply enmeshed in rituals that mirror the structure of divine authority.  More was not, however, a reactionary except when the radicalism of the Lutherans pushed him to stringent and violent acts needed to defend the integrity of his perception of the Christian world.  A prominent member of the Northern European Humanist movement, More was dedicated to the recovery of a renovated faith based on a new reading of the Patristic fathers, attention to classical, particularly Greek neoplatonic authors, and disdain for complex scholastic theology.  He and his fellow Humanists hoped for reformation of the Church without abandoning the unity of Christendom, the apparatus of ritual and hierarchy that defined so much of their lives, and the primacy of papal authority.<br />Ackroyd's efforts to present More and the late medieval ethos are very successful.  Readers will be introduced to a foreign world, but one which is an ancestor of our contemporary society.  Ackroyd's efforts at depicting the lost of world of More include not only the content but the structure of the book.  Some prior reviewers commented adversely on Ackroyd's use of unmodified quotations from More's English writings.  While interpreting these lines requires a little effort, that effort helps to appreciate More's style.  As Ackroyd points out, for More and his contemporaries, style was not simply a matter of presentation but had a significant moral dimension.  While chronologically arranged, this biography is not strictly a narrative of More's life.  Each chapter is presented as an almost self contained vignette or episode from More's life.  I believe this is a deliberate effort on Ackroyd's part to mimic aspects of medieval ritual and theater.  This is another and I think successful effort on the part of Ackroyd to present the late Medieval world.  Ackroyd argues that not only that More was dedicated to the importance of ritual and theater but that it formed a very important part of More's character and perhaps self-image.  Ackroyd's construction of this book is then a doubly artful device to mirror both the world of late medieval England and More himself.ent but the structure of the book.  Some prior reviewers commented adversely on Ackroyd's use of unmodified quotations from More's English writings.  While interpreting these lines requires a little effort, that effort helps to appreciate More's style.  As Ackroyd points out, for More and his contemporaries, style was not simply a matter of presentation but had a significant moral dimension.  While chronologically arranged, this biography is not strictly a narrative of More's life.  Each chapter is presented as an almost self contained vignette or episode from More's life.  I believe this is a deliberate effort on Ackroyd's part to mimic aspects of medieval ritual and theater.  This is another and I think successful effort on the part of Ackroyd to present the late Medieval world.  Ackroyd argues that not only that More was dedicated to the importance of ritual and theater but that it formed a very important part of More's character and perhaps self-image.  Ackroyd's construction of this book is then a doubly artful device to mirror both the world of late medieval England and More himself.	2003-07-20
1050707:US	50676891	RB5AZAW5171BA	0878408851	833793295	Morality and the Human Goods: An Introduction to Natural Law Ethics	Books	2	11	14	N	N	Clear but Superficial	This is a primer on natural law ethics.  Inspired by Aristotle and developed by Aquinas, this was for centuries the predominant European approach to ethics, in large part because it carried the imprimateur of the Catholic Church.  This book is written clearly and organized well.  The natural law approach is interesting and has been supported by some impressive thinkers. This book, unfortunately, slides by some of the real problems with this approach and is consequently not very convincing.  A basic approach here is to think or converse about what constitutes appropriate goals (basic goods) for human existence.  From these goals, some type of moral standards are constructed.  Leaving aside the powerful Humean criticism that one can't easily move from &quot;is&quot; to &quot;ought&quot;, this is only one form of moral realism.  There are other forms of moral realism which yield very different conclusions.  For example, the philosopher Judith Thomson produced a book on the nature and application of rights which is based on trying to clarify and abstract our moral intuitions about rights.  Some of Thomson's applications of her lines of reasoning lead to very different conclusions that those reached by Gomez-Lobo.  The point is not that Thomson is correct and Gomez-Lobo incorrect (though Thomson's arguments, written for an academic audience, are much more rigorous) but that this general approach is difficult to apply and doesn't necessarily lead to the conclusions Gomez-Lobo affirms.  Even conceding that Gomez-Lobo's basic approach, there are difficulties with his list of basic goods.  Why this particular list?  Why not add power or dominance over others?  Why not other features that we would generally find repulsive?  Aristotle, for example, found subordination of women and the existence of slavery quite acceptable.  Even individuals within the natural law tradition differ on the basic goods.  As Gomez-Lobo concedes, other contemporary natural law theorists have somewhat different lists of basic goods.<br />Within Gomez-Lobo's list, there are some difficulties.  For example, he identifies life as a basic good.  He subsequently discusses some other goods, such as freedom and dignity, but doesn't accord them the status of basic goods.  In an interesting piece of rhetoric, he states that freedom is in some sense antecedent to the basic goods but not a basic good because it is a necessary condition for achieving the basic goods.  If this reasoning is correct for freedom, it applies equally to life, which is a precondition for pursuing all goods, basic or not. Based on his reasoning, Gomez-Lobo would have to classify freedom as a basic good or treat life the same way as freedom. The consequences for the development of actual moral guidelines are significant and would lead to very different conclusions that the ones he affirms. I think similar problems occur with his classification of dignity.  Another difficulty is that Gomez-Lobo argues for equivalence of all basic goods.  Well and good, but what happens when there is conflict?  There is no obvious procedure for resolving conflicts.  At one point, he argues that negative responsibilities (do not do something) take precedence over positive claims (you must do this) but provides no convincing argument for this distinction.  Further, what happens when positive claims conflict with positive claims, or negative with negative?  He also places a good deal of emphasis on the so-called principle of double effect as a decision making device, which is often difficult to apply because it places a great deal of weight on agent intentions.<br />A good deal of the book is relatively vague about actual moral problems.  He does discuss two major problems, abortion and euthanasia.  Neither of these discussion is satisfactory.  In the abortion section, Gomez-Lobo developments his own line of reasoning well but misrepresents the arguments of some abortion freedom advocates.  In the euthanasia section, heslides by some really difficult issues and simplifies problems is a very unrealistic way.  While I actually agree with most, perhaps even all of his conclusions, the way in which he purports to reach conclusions about euthanasia is suspect.  If this is an example of how natural law ethics is to be applied, then it is not very useful in addressing real moral problems.<br />To be fair, trying to develop a single scheme to encompass and guide human moral behavior is extremely difficult, probably impossible.  As recognized by Hume and affirmed by some contemporary moral philosophers, moral philosophy is not going to be reducible to a single system.  Natural law theories do have something to offer but readers interested in pursuing these ideas should turn to other sources.  A very good starting place is the article by Mark Murphy in the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, which is available on the Internet.  This is a concise, sympathetic yet critical overview with a superior bibliography.he slides by some really difficult issues and simplifies problems is a very unrealistic way.  While I actually agree with most, perhaps even all of his conclusions, the way in which he purports to reach conclusions about euthanasia is suspect.  If this is an example of how natural law ethics is to be applied, then it is not very useful in addressing real moral problems.  <br />To be fair, trying to develop a single scheme to encompass and guide human moral behavior is extremely difficult, probably impossible.  As recognized by Hume and affirmed by some contemporary moral philosophers, moral philosophy is not going to be reducible to a single system.  Natural law theories do have something to offer but readers interested in pursuing these ideas should turn to other sources.  A very good starting place is the article by Mark Murphy in the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, which is available on the Internet.  This is a concise, sympathetic yet critical overview with a superior bibliography.	2003-07-13
1050999:US	50676891	R2WU4U4PB85FT2	0140445366	561231900	Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Hume's Posthumous Classic	This short and artfully written book was published after Hume's death.  Hume did not wish to experience the controversy engendered by the arguments advanced in the book.  It is likely as well that Hume was concerned also with offending some of the moderate Presbyterian clergy who were his personal friends and had been his partisans in other controversies.  This book is primarily an attack on the idea that the exercise of reason and logic provides support for religion, and particularly that application of reason leads to strong evidence for the existence of a beneficient God.  This line of thought had become particularly popular among liberal theologians in the first half of the 18th century and was a widely held notion among Enlightenment intellectuals across Europe and North America.  This idea is still widely held today and can be seen in the writings of the so-called 'intelligent design' advocates of creationism.  Hume's criticisms, then, are not only of historic interest but continue to have relevance to our contemporary lives.<br />The Dialogues are constructed as a 3 cornered argument between three friends. Demea, a man upholding revealed religion against the idea that reason provides support for the existence of God.  Cleanthes, an advocate of natural religion.  Philo, a skeptical reasoner who attacks the positions held by Demea and Cleanthes.  For those who like Hume's sprightly 18th century style, this is a fun book to read.  Hume artfully divides some of his strongest arguments between Cleanthes and Philo, and gives the Dialogues the real sense of a dispute among 3 intelligent friends.  Philo is generally taken to represent Hume's positions but Cleanthes articulates some strong arguments and provides some of the best criticisms of Demea's fideism.  Much of the book is devoted to attacking the argument from design, which Cleanthes attempts to defend against assaults from Philo and Demea.  In many ways, the argument from design is the major idea of those supporting the natural religion approach to existence of God.  Hume's critique is thorough and powerful.  It even includes an anticipation of Darwin's idea's of selection, though the basis for Hume's critique is primarily epistemological.  In the later parts of the book, Hume attacks also the comsological argument for the existence of God, though this discussion is relatively brief and a bit confusing.  Hume's analysis is consistent broadly with much of his philosophical work.  In many ways, his great theme was the limitations of reason, and this book is an example of his preoccupation with the relatively limited role of reason in establishing certain facts about the universe.  He finishes with short criticisms of the idea that religion is needed for a stable and well ordered society and defends the usefullness of skeptical reasoning.<br />It is important to view the Dialogues as part of a critique of religion that Hume sustained in several works.  His Natural History of Religion, the On Miracles section of the Enquiry Concerning Human Understacing, and other essays comprise a broad criticism of religion.  Other pillars of religion, such as the existence of miracles and revelation, are criticized in his other work.  While Hume denied being an atheist and was apparently disturbed by the dogmatic atheism of French philosophes he met in Paris, he was certainly not religous in any conventional sense.<br />This is a short and very readable book but the power of its arguments are totally out of proportion to its length.porting the natural religion approach to existence of God.  Hume's critique is thorough and powerful.  It even includes an anticipation of Darwin's idea's of selection, though the basis for Hume's critique is primarily epistemological.  In the later parts of the book, Hume attacks also the comsological argument for the existence of God, though this discussion is relatively brief and a bit confusing.  Hume's analysis is consistent broadly with much of his philosophical work.  In many ways, his great theme was the limitations of reason, and this book is an example of his preoccupation with the relatively limited role of reason in establishing certain facts about the universe.  He finishes with short criticisms of the idea that religion is needed for a stable and well ordered society and defends the usefullness of skeptical reasoning.  <br />It is important to view the Dialogues as part of a critique of religion that Hume sustained in several works.  His Natural History of Religion, the On Miracles section of the Enquiry Concerning Human Understacing, and other essays comprise a broad criticism of religion.   Other pillars of religion, such as the existence of miracles and revelation, are criticized in his other work.  While Hume denied being an atheist and was apparently disturbed by the dogmatic atheism of French philosophes he met in Paris, he was certainly not religous in any conventional sense.  <br />This is a short and very readable book but the power of its arguments are totally out of proportion to its length.	2003-07-13
1061350:US	50676891	R2TSQD6MLMJTFE	0521627303	659441744	Born to Die: Disease and New World Conquest, 1492-1650 (New Approaches to the Americas)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Thorough and Scholarly Study of Crucial Issue	This is a very thorough and well organized study of one of the most important and ghastly events in human history.  In the century following the European discovery of the Americas, approximately 90% of the native population perished.  The agents of this demographic and cultural catastrophe were an apparently unceasing series of epidemics transmitted by European and African immigrants to the Western Hemisphere.  Isolated for millenia from the Western Hemisphere, the native peoples of the Americas were virgin soil for smallpox, plague, influenza, measles, and a wide range of other serious infections.  Native American susceptibility to epidemic disease and not any technological or cultural advantage was the key factor allowing Europeans to conquer the Americas. The conquest of Western Hemisphere and European dominance of its resources resulted in a huge economic and ecological windfall for European states.  This windfall was a key factor propelling the global dominance of European culture and states.<br />Cook does an excellent job of systematically surveying the various epidemics and their demographic impacts.  This is difficult because of the need to cover an extended period of time, a broad variety of regions, and the fragmentary nature of the data.  This book is an excellent summary of available knowledge on this important topic.  Very organized and written competently, this book will be the standard reference on this topic.	2003-07-04
1072004:US	50676891	R1TRRMBCMWCV2B	0195151747	846543535	Six Days of War: June 1967 and the Making of the Modern Middle East	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Very Good and Very Detailed Political and Diplomatic History	This very good and carefully researched book is primarily a political and diplomatic account of the Six Day War (or the June War as it is called in many Arab nations).  Oren's focus is on the events that led to the war and the decisions during the war that led to its final outcome and aftermath.  This is not a military history, though it contains solid description of the events of the war itself, but rather a political and diplomatic history of decision making before and during the war.  Oren has taken considerable pains to be fair and comprehensive.  Based on a combination of interviews, extensive archival research, and systematic review of the extensive secondary literature, Oren attempts to reconstruct decision making by all the major actors.  In particular, he tries very hard and successfully to devote equal time to both Arab and Israeli decision makers.  Oren deals well also with the role of the United States but devotes less time to how the Soviet leadership acted, undoubtedly because sources for the Soviet leadership are limited.  In his desire to be fair, Oren has perhaps been somewhat reluctant to draw conclusions about aspects of the war and seems to have aimed at a strategy in which he presents the story and lets readers draw conclusions.  A couple of examples.  It is clear from his narrative that various Arab governments, notably the Syrian and Egyptian leadership, precipitated the war.  Nowhere in the book, however, does Oren explicitly condemn their reckless actions.  It is clear also that members of the Soviet leadership acted irresponsibly and encouraged Arab aggression.<br />Oren opens the book with a solid precis of events in the 2 decades prior to the Six Day War.  He then presents a very detailed account of the specific events leading to the outbreak of war.  The war, and the specific way it started, a pre-emptive strike by the Israelis, is shown to be a highly contingent event in the background of a very unstable situation.  Important factors leading to the outbreak of war were not only the persistent Arab-Israeli conflict but also the very complicated and at times violent relations between different Arab states, and the messy internal politics of Arab states.  In Egypt, rivalry between Nasser and his chief political competitor, Field Marshall 'Amer, seems to have been a major factor propelling Egyptian decision making.  In the background, of course, was the Cold War and the Soviet Union, which had adopted several Arab states as clients.  A European diplomat is quoted as remarking that the Middle East was like 1914 before the beginning of WWI and this is a good analogy.<br />After almost 2 generations of Israeli regional military dominance, it is easy to forget how one-sided this combat appeared.  Israel suffered from unfavorable geography; all its major population centers were in direct line of Arab artillery and it had few natural defensive barriers.  The numerical disparity was immense, and there was great disparity in tanks, artillery, and aircraft.  The relevant Arab nations were equipped well; the Soviets had supplied Egypt and Syria generously and Jordan had good American equipment.  The Israeli Defense Force was primarily a citizen army wrapped around a core of professionals.  A large component of the Arab armies were fully professionalized.  The Israelis, however, had excellent training and many of the Arab formations were prepared poorly.  One Egyptian officer remarked bitterly that the Israelis had trained for war and we had trained for parades.  The Egyptian Armed Forces were less a military force than a patronage machine serving the political ambitions of its leadership.  The Israeli Defense Force had superb leadership, mainly men who had served with distinction in the 1948 and 1956 wars.  Arab military leadership proved to be dreadful.  When Arab troops fought well, like the Jordanians in the West Bank or the Syrians defending the Golan Heights, their commanders wasted their efforts.<br />Oren makes the excellent point that one of the primary outcomes of the war, the huge expansion of Israeli occupied territory, was very much the result of the unexpectedly overwhelming nature of Israeli success.  Not only did the Arab leadership bungle the military aspects of the war but they also bungled the diplomatic aspects as well.  In Oren's account, the actors that come out best are the Israeli cabinet, who struggled continuously with difficult decisions in a democratic manner, and the Johnson administration, who tried very hard to act in a manner would reduce the violence.<br />Despite the subtitle, this book is not about the aftermath of the Six Day War and does not deal in any meaningful way with the impact of the Six Day War.  Oren does make the general point that the Six Day War ensured that the Arab nations could not expect to destroy Israel, as they hoped to do in the Six Day War.  On the other hand, Israel was not and is not powerful enough to impose a lasting peace.  The war did not abolish the underlying problems in Middle East.  Oren doesn't mention, however, one particularly important consequence of the Six Day War, which is that it really cemented the relationship between Israel and the United States, and this relationship remains a cornerstone of Israeli security./>Oren makes the excellent point that one of the primary outcomes of the war, the huge expansion of Israeli occupied territory, was very much the result of the unexpectedly overwhelming nature of Israeli success.  Not only did the Arab leadership bungle the military aspects of the war but they also bungled the diplomatic aspects as well.  In Oren's account, the actors that come out best are the Israeli cabinet, who struggled continuously with difficult decisions in a democratic manner, and the Johnson administration, who tried very hard to act in a manner would reduce the violence. <br />Despite the subtitle, this book is not about the aftermath of the Six Day War and does not deal in any meaningful way with the impact of the Six Day War.  Oren does make the general point that the Six Day War ensured that the Arab nations could not expect to destroy Israel, as they hoped to do in the Six Day War.  On the other hand, Israel was not and is not powerful enough to impose a lasting peace.  The war did not abolish the underlying problems in Middle East.  Oren doesn't mention, however, one particularly important consequence of the Six Day War, which is that it really cemented the relationship between Israel and the United States, and this relationship remains a cornerstone of Israeli security.	2003-06-26
1077886:US	50676891	RK5GF96HJYMMA	0374522758	248737748	Collected Poems	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	Very Rewarding Reading	This is the standard edition of Larkin's poetry.  Larkin did not publish a great deal in his lifetime and the addition of a number of previously unpublished poems adds a good deal to his canon. Even with these additions, Larkin was not prolific and wrote no long poems.  His reputation rests on a number of short poems written in a characteristic and deceptively simple style.  Larkin achieved both accessibility and considerable power with direct, chiselled lyrics that use relatively simple words, metaphors, and allusions.  His best poems deal with uncertainty, anxiety, the problems of aging, and aspects of personal disappointment.  This wouldn't seem to be very promising but Larkin captures eloquently important aspects of life.  There are also some fine and short nature poems.  Easy to read and very rewarding.	2003-06-22
1078779:US	50676891	R370CLMC6MTXAA	0140088172	25109845	The Moving Toyshop (Classic Crime)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Very Enjoyable	This is probably the best of the Gervase Fen mysteries.  All of the Fen mysteries are entertaining.  The principal character, Gervase Fen, is an eccentric Oxford professor and successful amateur detective.  All of them are marked by clever plotting, often with a literary element, and fine comic writing.  This novel features a particularly clever plot, probably the best character development of all the Fen novels, and above all, great wit.  It contains the comic chase scene to end all comic chase scenes.<br />This book, in an odd way, is also prescient.  One of the characters is a middle-aged, somewhat dissatisfied, and prominent English poet.  The book is dedicated to the author's good friend, Philip Larkin, and at the time of publication, both Larkin and the author must have been young men.  Larkin went on to become the best known English poet of his generation and several of his best poems are about the dissatisfactions of middle age.	2003-06-22
1090888:US	50676891	R26JKISFN5JQ42	0062508865	527800309	Muhammad: A Biography of the Prophet	Books	4	7	12	N	N	Concise and Sympathetic	This well organized and very well written book is a sympathetic but generally fair portrait of the founder of Islam.  Armstrong takes pains to provide a fair and unanachronistic depiction of Muhammed and the founding of Islam.  She is concerned particularly with rebutting the prejuidices accumulated during several centuries of Christian - Islamic conflict.  She draws on a number of sources, including early historical accounts, the work of a number of modern scholars, and a close reading of the Quran.  Armstrong presents background on life and religion in Muhammed's Arabia, the details of his life, and how his life and teachings gave rise to Islam.  Muhammed's charismatic leadership and the somewhat improvised nature of his teachings are detailed carefully.  At the same time, Armstrong takes pains to present the basic features of Islam in a favorable but generally fair light.  There are frequent comparisons with Christian traditions and Armstrong points out aspects of Islam, notably its tolerance of other faiths, which compare very favorably with Christianity.  Armstrong clearly aimed this book at reducing tensions between Christians and Muslims.  In this respect, this is a successful effort.  Open minded non-Muslim readers will find this book reassuring as well as interesting.  Disparagement of Muhammed is deeply offensive to Muslims and this effort to educate non-Muslims about his life may decrease both deliberate and inadvertant attacks on Muhammed.<br />While Armstong succeeds well within the bounds of her chosen mission, this book is a bit misleading.  I think Armstrong's presentation of Muhammed and the basics of Islam are generally fair.  What is necessarily left out of this book is the subsequent history of Islam.  It is true, for example, that Islam has been often more tolerant of other religions than Christianity.  This fact, however, is incomplete.  Some versions of Islam, notably the Wahabhism that began as an 18th century revival movement, are not particularly tolerant.  In addition, the history of relations between the Shia and Sunni branches of Islam is marred by much violence.  Perhaps most important, Islam is probably inimical the idea of separation of Church and State (probably to an even greater extent than Christianity) and this is a serious problem for dealing with the modern world.icularly tolerant.  In addition, the history of relations between the Shia and Sunni branches of Islam is marred by much violence.  Perhaps most important, Islam is probably inimical the idea of separation of Church and State (probably to an even greater extent than Christianity) and this is a serious problem for dealing with the modern world.	2003-06-12
1092825:US	50676891	R2C0RZWV9569IN	074322325X	572809024	The End of the Beginning: From the Siege of Malta to the Allied Victory at El Alamein	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Mediocre	This short book is an effort to provide a ground view of the turning point of the war in North Africa.  Focusing on the recollections of number of veterans, the authors depict the sequence of events leading up to the defeat of the Afrika Corps at El Alamein.  This story has been told many times previously, and often better.  The effort to present the ground view is laudable but not particularly novel.  There is little effort to integrate the personal accounts with broader events.  The authors also diffuse the impact of the story by including some extraneous events such as the Dieppe raid.  The most novel aspect of the book is the detailing of the success of German intelligence in penetrating British battle plans.	2003-06-11
1103677:US	50676891	R32377WRJXURKY	0613084691	755648783	The Odyssey (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Superb	A long review is pointless.  This is a gripping translation of a great work.  Fagles has accomplished the difficult task of rendering the formal language of the Odyssey into a form of modern English that apparently preserves the poetry of the original.  Very easy to read and quite powerful.  Though I have not looked at the popular Fitzgerald translation for many years, I would have to say that I prefer this one.  This edition comes with an excellent introductory essay and notes by Bernard Knox.  Readers who enjoy this book and translation should immediately pick up Fagles' translation of the Iliad.  The latter is an even greater epic and probably harder to translate. The Fagles version of the Iliad is outstanding.	2003-06-01
1110137:US	50676891	R30BUPV0X9U8B4	0140076301	435450310	The History Man	Books	4	8	8	N	N	The Best Campus Novel	The campus novel, written both by British and American writers, became a recognized subgenre in the last 50 years.  Most of these books, produced by writers with academic appointments, are not very interesting.  This book, however, is a real exception.  This is simply the best campus novel and a devastating sendup of academic pretense and radical chic.  In many ways, this book is also the best novel of the 60s as well.  A key feature of this book is that Bradbury's characters are not caricatures; he is very careful to mix real elements of sympathy with his satire.	2003-05-27
1113536:US	50676891	R12YA1YF8RFTTQ	0060194766	580560480	Empire: How Spain Became a World Power, 1492-1763	Books	4	21	27	N	N	Solid Study	This is an interesting history of the Spanish Empire from its foundation at the end of the Reconquest of Spain to the 18th century.  The author is a leading authority on early modern Spain.  Kamen has two primary objectives.  The first is simply to provide an accurate narrative history of the Empire.  The second is to rebut nationalistic claims that the Spanish Empire resulted from the formation and activities of a powerful Spanish (actually Castillian) state.  As can be seen by some of the negative comments of prior reviewers, this second objective is surprisingly controversial.  Kamen demonstrates well that early modern Castille was not a strong state and that the assembly of the huge Spanish Empire resulted from a confluence of factors that had relatively little to do with the strength of Castille.  A crucial fact was the dynastic good luck of the Castillian state.  A series of very competent rulers - Ferdinand and Isabella, Charles V, Phillip II - were in charge during the formation of the Empire.  Beyond their own personal abilities, they were also pan-European figures and the formation of the Empire owed a great deal to the fact that the ruling dynasty was able to tap into the talents and capital of other European entities.  The Castillian monarchs also exercised power in the Low Countries and Italy, and under Charles V, in Central Europe.  These territories and resources were crucial for building the Empire.  Kamen shows very well the multi-ethnic and trans-national aspects of the Empire.  A great deal of the capital for overseas investment came from Italy.  Italians, Flemings, and Germans were all important servants of the Crown.  The assembly of the Empire in the Western Hemisphere was largely a private enterprise though the Crown did provide crucial captial and sanctions.  While most have concentrated on the Western Hemisphere, Kamen does an excellent job of reviewing the Empire in Europe and imperial efforts in North Africa.  Kamen is concerned also with undermining the view that the conquest of the Americas was due to the overwhelming power of the Europeans.  He points out repeatedly the importance of native American allies and the crucial role of epidemics involving imported diseases.  In this context, Kamen probably misses a chance to make an important connection.  Not only did epidemic disease facilitate conquest but it really made it possible for the Europeans to impose their culture, language, and rule in permanent ways.  As Hugh Thomas pointed out in his book on the conquest of Mexico, without the huge depopulations that followed the conquest, the Spanish Empire in the Western Hemisphere might have resembled British India in the 18th and early 19th centuries, an administrative European veneer over a powerful native culture.  Kamen shows very well the weaknesses of the Empire.  Since Castille was not a strong state, the success of the Empire depended crucially on appropriate management of resources contributed from the holdings of the Empire.  Without a competent dynast at the center, problems occurred.  Also, problems in one important part of the Empire tremendously affected the rest of the Empire.  The revolt of the Netherlands played a large role in dissipating the windfall of precious metals from the Western Hemisphere.  A real virtue of this book is how it shows how rapidly the linkages between the Americas and Europe developed. Surprisingly, however, the Castillians themselves never became particularly cosmopolitan.  Despite being the center of this huge Empire, Castillians remained insular.  In later decades, Spanish Emperors had difficulty finding individuals with the language skills to serve as diplomats, and Castille was relatively intellectually barren.  In the long run, the inability of Spain itself to become a major financial, intellectual, or industrial center doomed the Empire to failure.undermining the view that the conquest of the Americas was due to the overwhelming power of the Europeans.  He points out repeatedly the importance of native American allies and the crucial role of epidemics involving imported diseases.  In this context, Kamen probably misses a chance to make an important connection.  Not only did epidemic disease facilitate conquest but it really made it possible for the Europeans to impose their culture, language, and rule in permanent ways.  As Hugh Thomas pointed out in his book on the conquest of Mexico, without the huge depopulations that followed the conquest, the Spanish Empire in the Western Hemisphere might have resembled British India in the 18th and early 19th centuries, an administrative European veneer over a powerful native culture.  Kamen shows very well the weaknesses of the Empire.  Since Castille was not a strong state, the success of the Empire depended crucially on appropriate management of resources contributed from the holdings of the Empire.  Without a competent dynast at the center, problems occurred.  Also, problems in one important part of the Empire tremendously affected the rest of the Empire.  The revolt of the Netherlands played a large role in dissipating the windfall of precious metals from the Western Hemisphere.  A real virtue of this book is how it shows how rapidly the linkages between the Americas and Europe developed. Surprisingly, however, the Castillians themselves never became particularly cosmopolitan.  Despite being the center of this huge Empire, Castillians remained insular.  In later decades, Spanish Emperors had difficulty finding individuals with the language skills to serve as diplomats, and Castille was relatively intellectually barren.  In the long run, the inability of Spain itself to become a major financial, intellectual, or industrial center doomed the Empire to failure.	2003-05-23
1115847:US	50676891	R1UKD0EACRDCT0	0393308499	942784150	The Miracle Game	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Skvorecky's Best Work	This is Josef Skvorecky's best novel, a fairly strong statement since much of his other work, such as the novel The Engineer of Human Souls and some of his short stories, is excellent. Like a number of his other works, this book is semi-autobiographical and covers a good slice of modern Czech history. At its core is an analysis of the false promises of Communism, which is shown to be triumphant only by a combination of repression and chicanery. Written with his usual humor and deft characterization, this is simultaneously an ironic and tragic view of modern history.	2003-05-21
1119754:US	50676891	R3UNXZLDDPUJWS	0393090086	114127795	The Song of Roland	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Interesting	This is a modern English verse translation of an important medieval French epic.  This is reputedly a good translation and it certainly reads easily.  The story is known well.  Charlemagne and his Christian army have conquered almost all of Muslim Spain.  The remaining Muslim monarch, Marsilion of Saragossa, promises Charlemagne that he will convert and become Charlemagne's vassal if the French withdraw.  Marsilion and a renegade French nobleman, Ganelon, conspire to ambush the French rearguard in an isolated mountain pass.  The rearguard is led by Charlemagne's nephew and favorite vassal, Roland, who is also Ganelon's stepson. Much bloodshed follows.  The Song of Roland is a celebration of chivalric virtues, with an emphasis on the Christian obligations of Knighthood.  The poet glorifies combat, the importance of the feudal bond, and crucial role of knights as Christian warriors.  There is an excellent introduction by Goldin covering the history of the poem, its content, its ideology, and its prosody.  The quality of the poetry is not great.	2003-05-18
1123852:US	50676891	RTQG7GDBUDKJI	0140275363	488928067	The Iliad	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great	The Iliad is not only one of the earliest works of literature, it is also one of the greatest.  This is a powerful translation of this great poem.  While only individuals competent in Classical Greek can really judge the quality of translation, this translation has been praised by many knowledgeable scholars.  I have read all three of the popular translations of the Iliad (Lattimore's, Fitzgerald's, and Fagles') and this may be the best.  The Iliad is supposedly written in a specific, formal, and somewhat artificial form of Greek and in this sense, the Lattimore translation, which is written in somewhat more \\"poetic\\" English, may be a bit more like the original.  This translation, however, contains very direct language without sacrificing the intensity of the poetry.  Fagles does particularly well in showing how Homer gradually elevates the power of his language as the poem reaches its climax and the piteous scenes that follow the death of Hector.<br />The Iliad is probably the greatest epic ever written.  Many modern readers prefer the Odyssey because of its more varied plot but the Iliad is considerably longer.  Maintaining the intensity of language and emotion throughout the poem and in the repetitive battle scenes is a remarkable achievement.  A nice aspect of this book is the excellent introduction by Bernard Knox covering the nature of the Iliad, its themes, and the Homeric world.	2003-05-15
1138221:US	50676891	RF9Z3KNC6LGZ4	0631176772	64548662	The Incas (Peoples of America)	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Excellent Synthesis	This book is intended as a synthesis of information on the Inca state.  Written both as an introductory book for the broad reading public and as a benchmark for scholars, this book distills historical, archaeologic, and ethnographic information into a single nicely organized and written volume.  D'Altroy, an archaeologist who has worked extensively in the Andes, covers the prehistory and history of the Inca state, its social and political organization, its religous ideology, and its material culture.  The judicious use of historic sources, largely post-Spanish conquest writings, combined with archaeologically derived information is excellent.  The writing is free of academic jargon and D'Altroy provides a comparative perspective by sparing but insightful comparisons with other pre-modern empires.  It is difficult to write a book that will be interesting to general readers and useful to scholars but D'Altroy has done an excellent job of serving two masters.  I've read other books on the Incas and this is beyond question the best single volume on this topic.	2003-05-02
1144226:US	50676891	R2NFL1PY6LA4HS	0156345706	816302388	The Garden of the Finzi-Continis	Books	4	44	44	N	N	Fine Novel	Some readers will be familiar with this story because this novel was the basis for the beautiful and haunting film of the same title.  Comparisons between the film and the book are inevitable.  The basic story is identical in both.  The narrator is a young, middle class Italian Jew in the provincial city of Ferrara.  The events take place on the eve of WWII and are set against the background of the anti-semitic legislation and policies of the Italian fascist state.  The book recounts the hopeless infatuation of the narrator with the daughter of a wealthy Jewish family.  This doomed and largely one-sided passion is presented subtly as an allegory of the fate of the Italian Jewish community.  Not surprisingly, the book is considerably more detailed than the movie, more detached, and at times almost ironic in tone.  The quality of writing is excellent, even in translation, and the characterization of pre-war Ferrara is evocative.  The gradual constriction of the life of Italian Jews emerges slowly and indirectly, but with great power.  The book also features an important subplot concerning the narrator's relationship with his father which is also presented with delicacy and real pathos.  This is one of those books whose impact tends to linger well after you finish reading it.	2003-04-26
1152091:US	50676891	R28DANUVK4F3I5	014028530X	406338527	The Road to War: Revised Edition	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Excellent Overview	This book was written as a companion to series of television documentaries on the origins of WWII.  Given this background, you might expect a relatively conventional overview or 'coffee table' type of book.  The principal author, however, is Richard Overy, perhaps the preeminent scholar of WWII and man who has made a career of looking at well known historical episodes from fresh points of view.  Overy is also that unusual scholar who tries to, and succeeds at, writing books for both the community of scholars and the broad reading public.<br />The goal of this book is to provide a sophisticated understanding of why the WWII occurred and to dispell myths about the actions and motivations of the major actors.  The authors chose to organize this book on a country by country basis.  There are excellent introductory and concluding chapters providing some overview but most of the book is dedicated to careful analysis of the politics and diplomacy of the major combatant countries.<br />Why did WWII occur?  A major cause was the unsatisfactory nature of the attempted settlement following WWI.  Several of the major combatants in WWI felt aggrieved by the results of the Paris peace conferences and treaties.  The desire for revision was driving force in diplomacy and internal politics for the two decades following WWI.  The aggrieved parties naturally included Germany but also included the Soviet Union, Italy, and Japan.  WWI inflicted terrible wounds on the powers who wished to maintain the post-WWI settlement.  France's losses were grievous, and since the French economy lacked the dynamism of Germany's and her birth rate was lower, she remained in a vulnerable position.  Britain withdrew from continental politics for much of the 20s.  When the British did return to active participation in continental affairs, it was with a weakened economy and a depleted defense establishment.  Perhaps only the active participation of the USA could have maintained the post-WWI settlement, but the USA pursued isolationist policies until the very eve of WWII.<br />Overy and Wheatcroft provide excellent analyses of internal politics and diplomacy in each nation.  Several themes emerge.  The Great Depression did not cause the problems and tensions that led to WWII but horribly exacerbated them.  Particularly in the democratic states, the freedom of action of leaders was sharply limited by domestic political considerations and a good deal of what is seen now commonly as the cowardice of the leadership of Britain and France was due to the demands of internal politics.  The leaders of the dictatorships were less constrained and their actions tended to reflect their own preoccupations and irrational goals.  Deterring or stopping the Germans would have required alliance with the Soviet Union, but this proved to particularly difficult for a variety of reasons.<br />An unstable international system, weakness on the part of the parties interested in upholding the system, and international economic catastrophe were the ingredients for WWII.  Add to this mixture the malign figure of Hitler, a man bent on at least continental domination, and whose motives were clearly not understood by the leaders of Britain and France.  The rest is the tragic history of the 30s and 40s.ut the USA pursued isolationist policies until the very eve of WWII.  <br />Overy and Wheatcroft provide excellent analyses of internal politics and diplomacy in each nation.  Several themes emerge.  The Great Depression did not cause the problems and tensions that led to WWII but horribly exacerbated them.  Particularly in the democratic states, the freedom of action of leaders was sharply limited by domestic political considerations and a good deal of what is seen now commonly as the cowardice of the leadership of Britain and France was due to the demands of internal politics.  The leaders of the dictatorships were less constrained and their actions tended to reflect their own preoccupations and irrational goals.  Deterring or stopping the Germans would have required alliance with the Soviet Union, but this proved to particularly difficult for a variety of reasons.  <br />An unstable international system, weakness on the part of the parties interested in upholding the system, and international economic catastrophe were the ingredients for WWII.  Add to this mixture the malign figure of Hitler, a man bent on at least continental domination, and whose motives were clearly not understood by the leaders of Britain and France.  The rest is the tragic history of the 30s and 40s.	2003-04-20
1162835:US	50676891	R3P1VKEOBFIMKL	0140271694	551695850	Russia's War: A History of the Soviet Effort: 1941-1945	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Very Good Overview	This fluently written book was written originally as a companion to a series of documentaries about the Eastern Front.  It is intended as a general overview of the Soviet war effort.  It is not a detailed, traditional military history and concentrates on almost exclusively on the Soviet side of the conflict.  This orientation is appropriate because the great majority of the literature on the Eastern front is drawn from German sources and expresses, either explicitly or implicitly, a German point of view.  A good deal of the analysis and description is drawn from documentation that became available after the disintegration of the Soviet Union and is drawn from the work of other scholars whose work Overy is careful to acknowledge.<br />Overy is as concerned with social and economic history as he is with political, diplomatic, and military history.  The initial chapters are a nice precis of the evolution of the Soviet armed forces from their birth in the Civil War to the eve of WWII.  Relevant social, political, and economic history is introduced.  There is a good chapter on Soviet diplomatic manuvering before the war, a fine series of chapters covering the major phases of the war, and a good section on the aftermath of the war.  The actions and character of Stalin are a strong current throughout the book, emphasizing his central role in Soviet history.	2003-04-11
1176539:US	50676891	R3IK613P017FPD	0199243360	791335660	The Life of David Hume	Books	4	26	26	N	Y	Fine Biography	This is only modern biography of Hume.  Very well written and researched, it concentrates on Hume's personal life and career as a man of letters.  Hume is a wonderful subject for a biography; an important figure who is simultaneously a warm and attractive personality.  Mossner does an excellent job of detailing Hume's personal life, friendships, and literary career.  For individuals really interested in Hume, this book is a treasure trove of information.  It is also a very valuable work on the intellectual culture of 18th century Scotland and the Enlightenment in general.  Mossner describes very well the intellectual atmosphere of lowland Scotland, which produced not only Hume, but Adam Smith, the great chemist Joseph Black (though Mossner mentions him only as a physician), and numerous other important intellectuals.  Mossner shows also the international quality of the Enlightenment.  Within months of publication, Hume's Treatise on Human Nature was mentioned in German publications, and his later, more popular works were known across Europe.  Hume had an international, even intercontinental (Benjamin Franklin), set of correspondents and friends. This books is a valuable companion to reading Hume's work.<br />What this book is not, however, is a full scale critical work.  Actual discussion and analysis of Hume's important philosophical work is relatively brief.  Nor is there much explicit discussion of the origins of Hume's thought in the work of prior 18th and 17th century thinkers.  This biography was last revised in the late 1970s and apparently not greatly changed from the original version published in 1954.  Over the course of the 20th century, Hume came to be regarded as one of the real titans of Western thought, with a corresponding increase in the secondary literature on Hume.  We also know much more about the 18th century and the Enlightenment than Mossner.  There is definitely a need for a major critical biography of Hume, though producing such a work could easily consume a scholar's career.easily consume a scholar's career.	2003-03-30
1176667:US	50676891	R1YM0XISY7EKYD	0140714731	324815483	Coriolanus (The Pelican Shakespeare)	Books	4	16	21	N	N	Fine Edition of Interesting Play	This inexpensive volume is a fine edition with very readable text, good notes, and a nice introduction.  Coriolanus is not one of Shakespeare's most popular plays, though it has its partisans.  As with several of Shakespeare's best plays, it is an attempt to combine an investigation of the nature of power with a psychological portrait.  The nature of power or kingship was one of Shakespeare's great themes, featured in some of the great tragedies like MacBeth or Lear, and this theme runs through many of his history plays.  In Coriolanus, however, this theme is handled less well.  It is interesting to speculate why Shakespeare, who dealt with this theme so well in many plays, doesn't do such a good job in Coriolanus.  The action in Coriolanus is set in a republic, not a monarchy.  The structure of republican politics is not one Shakespeare would have known well and the problems of politics and authority in a republican are different than those of a monarchy.  Particularly for modern audiences, whose intrinsic understanding of republican politics is much greater than Shakespeare's, the clumsy handling of the tension between the aristocratic Coriolanus and the plebes rings false.  In addition, the psychological portrait of Coriolanus is not nearly as rich as Shakespeare's analysis of quite a few of his other protagonists.  Much of the language in Coriolanus is powerful but it lacks the dramatic movement and insight of his best work.	2003-03-30
1187237:US	50676891	R1CQOLIR3KX9S4	0717000567	931286547	18th Brumaire of Louis Bonaparte	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The Most Accessible of Marx's Work	This fascinating extended essay was originally prepared as a series of newspaper articles.  It is Marx's careful analysis of the hijacking of the 1848 revolution in France by Louis Bonaparte, the nephew and self styled successor of the great Napoleon.  Many readers are dimly aware of this work because it is the source of two of Marx's most quoted remarks; \\"history occurs as tragedy and recurs as farce,\\" and \\"man makes his future, only not as he chooses.\\"  Marx discusses why the 18th Brumaire occurred, how it occurred, and why it succeeded.  Marx deployed all his considerable intellectual tools to produce this analysis and the quality of writing is much more accessible than much of his more scholarly work, proof that he could write well.  What is most impressive is Marx's use of class based social analysis combined with an incisive understanding of the intersections of class interests, ideology, and even personality.  Individuals, both on the right and left, who have reduced Marx's thinking to sterile economic determinism have never encountered this brilliant work.  A model of what can be done when Marxist concepts are used as a point of departure rather than a form of theology.	2003-03-20
1211560:US	50676891	R2G51X77LDODB1	B00005WUBA	754819531	The shorter novels of Stendhal	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Worth Seeking Out	Long out of print, this book can be found in most good public libraries and occasionally in good used bookstores.  It contains most of Stendahl's shorter fiction, including Armance and the novellas set in Italy. While none of these works are of the quality or breadth of The Charterhouse of Parma or The Red and The Black, they are still excellent reading.  The shorter works, set in both contemporary and Baroque Italy, are particularly good.  The best of them display Stendahl's characteristic combination of psychological insight and devastating social criticism.  A recurrent theme is abuse of authority in aristocratic societies.  C.K. Scott-Moncrieff was famous in his day as a translator of French literature and this work is evidence of his skill.	2003-02-28
1217480:US	50676891	REFXL65NSPC3E	0671319728	290654926	1632 (Ring Of Fire)	Books	2	32	42	N	N	An Odd Alternative History Novel	This is an odd book. Its point of departure is the sudden transposition of town in modern West Virginia to Germany in 1632, right in the middle of the Thirty Years War. This type of book has become popular lately and is inspired by Murray Leinster's short story Sidewise in Time and the late L. Sprague De Camp's novel Lest Darkness Fall. S.M. Stirling's Island in the Sea of Time series is a notable recent exemplar of this subgenre. Essential features of this subgenre are that the interdimensional transfer generates a new path for human history and that the transferees are modern Americans whose advanced technology and political/moral values produce an actual improvement in the course of history. This book is no exception to these generalizations. The transferees prove themselves to be resourceful and humane. There are the usual adventure, combat, and romantic elements. The Americans establish a relatively modern republic in the middle of 17th century Germany and become allies of Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden, the greatest general and monarch of the time.<br />Books like this can be judged to a large extent on the ability of the author to avoid really obvious anachronisms. In this respect, I am not sure that Flint does very well. He is certainly knowledgeable about the basics of 17th century history but his treatment of the attitudes of historical figures is suspect. At the heart of this problem is more than a strong hint of what used to be called the Whig Interpretation of History. This idea tends to see European history as a progression towards modern liberal values and Protestantism as a principal engine of that progression. Catholicism comes off badly, a source of intolerance and oppression. I don't disagree about the behavior of the Counter Reformation Church but there is no evidence that the Protestants were any better. The great English apostles of religous toleration, Milton and Locke, were unwilling, for example, to extend religous toleration to Catholics. The treatment of Gustavus Adolphus strikes me as very anachronistic. When Louis the XIVth said the state is me, he meant exactly that and those sentiments were shared by other 17th century monarchs. I can't see a man like Gustavus Adolphus, who treated Sweden as an instrument of his dynastic ambitions, behaving the way he is depicted in this book. This book is also an advertisement for trade unionism. In and of itself, this is not bad and I am sympathetic to Mr. Flint's belief that trade unions are an essential component of a decent society. In this book, however, this is an accretion and not an organic component of the plot. It was introduced, I suspect, to counter the individualistic bias of similar books like H. Beam Piper's Kalvan stories, which have a distinctly individualistic and conservative orientation.<br /><br />As commented by several other reviewers, the quality of writing in this book is amateurish.treatment of Gustavus Adolphus strikes me as very anachronistic. When Louis the XIVth said the state is me, he meant exactly that and those sentiments were shared by other 17th century monarchs. I can't see a man like Gustavus Adolphus, who treated Sweden as an instrument of his dynastic ambitions, behaving the way he is depicted in this book. This book is also an advertisement for trade unionism. In and of itself, this is not bad and I am sympathetic to Mr. Flint's belief that trade unions are an essential component of a decent society. In this book, however, this is an accretion and not an organic component of the plot. It was introduced, I suspect, to counter the individualistic bias of similar books like H. Beam Piper's Kalvan stories, which have a distinctly individualistic and conservative orientation.<BR> <BR>As commented by several other reviewers, the quality of writing in this book is amateurish.	2003-02-23
1221722:US	50676891	R60NRPT07PZQ0	0465025153	327677341	Franco: A Biography	Books	5	14	24	N	N	Outstanding Biography	This is a first rate biography by Prof. Paul Preston, perhaps the leading authority on mid-20th century Spain.  Written well and documented superbly, this book offers an unparalleled account of Franco's long career.  Preston presents Franco as an unusually able opportunist dedicated to a relatively primitive ideology characterized by narrow nationalism, a virtually paranoid fear of leftism, and reactionary Catholicism.  Preston demonstrates well that Franco essentially embodied the worst tendencies of the Spanish upper and middle classes.  Franco's world view was formed by his provinical background, his narrow education in the Spanish military and his service in the colonial forces in Morocco.  Physically unimpressive, Franco became a national figure and leader of the Spanish Army by a combination of reckless bravery and an attention to organizational detail unusual in the primitive Spanish military.  Franco was then able to use his prestige and connections to eventually attain a position of primacy among the rebellious commanders on the Nationalist side in the Spanish Civil War.  Preston shows well that Franco probably put his political aspirations ahead of military success during crucial phases of the Civil War.  Franco appears to have been infected with the idea that he was some kind of 2oth century El Cid selected to save Spain from Bolshevism-Freemasonry.  Preston analyzes in detail many of the claims made by Franco's supporters.  These include the suggestions that he kept Spain out of WWII and that he set the stage for Spain's remarkable economic growth in the 1960s.  Preston shows that Spain's neutrality owed considerably more to good luck and intelligent Allied pressure than Franco's diplomacy.  Spain's economic boom occurred only after Franco's cabinet contained indivduals who rejected his primitive ideas of economic autarchy.  The Franco regime was characterized by systematic repression from start to finish.  From the remarkable brutality of Franco's troops during the Civil War to the massive post-war imprisonments to the systematic repression that lasted into the 1970s, the Francist regime characterized by attacks on anything deemed threatening.  Threats included free speech, freedom of religion, independent trade union activity, and a host of institutions necessary for a decent society.  Well into old age, Franco continued to express warm feelings about the Nazis and Italian Fascists who had once been his allies.  Prior reviewers who characterize Preston's analysis as biased are themselves showing evidence of prejuidice.  Preston presents Franco as a narrow-minded, vicious, and egotistical tyrant because that is exactly what Franco was.s during the Civil War to the massive post-war imprisonments to the systematic repression that lasted into the 1970s, the Francist regime characterized by attacks on anything deemed threatening.  Threats included free speech, freedom of religion, independent trade union activity, and a host of institutions necessary for a decent society.  Well into old age, Franco continued to express warm feelings about the Nazis and Italian Fascists who had once been his allies.  Prior reviewers who characterize Preston's analysis as biased are themselves showing evidence of prejuidice.  Preston presents Franco as a narrow-minded, vicious, and egotistical tyrant because that is exactly what Franco was.	2003-02-20
1225823:US	50676891	R1OANYV9WUPDI6	0451459083	543198748	Conquistador	Books	3	10	17	N	N	Solid Parallel Worlds Story	This is solid entertainment from the prolific S.M. Stirling.  As with several of his other books, this is an adventure story set in a parallel history.  In this case, the parallel world is one in which Alexander the Great lived until he was elderly and neither Europe nor China developed technologically advanced civilizations.  The Western Hemispheres remains untouched by invaders from the Eastern Hemisphere until an accident propels someone from our timeline (or one very similar to it) into the equivalent of California.  This individual founds a semi-feudal society but based on low population density and modern technology.  Knowledgeable readers will recognize echoes of other parallel worlds stories, particularly H. Beam Piper's Kalvan series, which is referred to several times in his story.  The idea of a technologically advanced second chance at civilization on Earth which offers humans a high standard of living and preserves much of the natural worlk is a recurrent theme in Stirling's books.  This is at least the third time he has used this idea.  This is an enticing idea which he examines well.  Unfortunately, Stirling's recycling of themes and plots is becoming repetitive.  He is a very competent writer and an imaginative thinker, but is perhaps writing too many books.	2003-02-16
1239321:US	50676891	R113TQXUQ9J35M	0375508260	649819248	Paris 1919: Six Months That Changed the World	Books	4	7	12	N	N	Solid Overview	This well written book is an informative overview of the Paris Peace Conference of 1919 and its associated treaties.  This is an immense subject.  As the author points out, for the period of the Paris Peace Conference, the primary conferees were essentially a world government.  WWI largely destroyed the pre-existing world order and the decisions of the Paris conference would be the foundation for subsequent international, regional, and national politics for much of the globe.  Macmillan systematically covers the whole gamut of decisions made by the conferees.  The terms of the settlement with Germany, the political boundaries of Eastern Europe, the structure of the Middle East, the disposition of German colonies, the formation of the League of Nations.  This is a real virtue as many tend to associate the Paris conference solely with the Treaty of Versailles that dictated terms to Germany.  Macmillan shows nicely the world wide scope of the decisions and how decisions at the conference proper led to the series of important treaties that were aimed at settling the crucial issues.  These included, for example, the Trianon treaty that set the borders of Hungary and the Treaty of Sevres that attempted to dictate the borders of Turkey.  Any of these individual topics can and have been the subjects of substantial monographs.  David Fromkin, for example, dealt very well with Turkey and the Middle East in his book A Peace to End All Peace, which covers much of the same ground.  The breadth of the Paris 1919 means precludes in depth examination of each important topic but Macmillan has done a very nice job of explaining and covering the key issues and decisions.  An unavoidable drawback of the book is its organization.  Topics are covered thematically rather than chronologically.  This makes topical analysis much more concise but makes it difficult at times to see how issues related to each other. A strictly chronological approach, however, would probably be less informative and I feel Macmillan made the correct choice.  Macmillan is particularly good on the personalities of the major decision makers, Wilson, Lloyd George, Clemenceau, and in revealing the political tensions they faced in resolving issues.  Macmillan is also very good in showing the underlying contradictions of the Paris Peace Conference.  Wilson in particular had made national-ethnic aspirations a central issue but putting this into practice proved insuperably difficult in many situations, such as Eastern Europe, and rubbed against national interests in many others.  Macmillan also does well in connecting decisions in Paris to some of our contemporary problems, such as the disintegration of Yugoslavia.  Finally, she treats the failings of the Paris conference, particularly with respect to Germany, in a clear and careful fashion.  While not sparing the mistakes of the treaty makers, she undercuts the common notion that the Versailles treaty was a vigorously punitive measure that was responsible in large part for WWII.  Following considerable modern scholarship, she presents the treaty as more moderate than thought commonly and suggests that Germany was treated too leniently in some ways.and I feel Macmillan made the correct choice.  Macmillan is particularly good on the personalities of the major decision makers, Wilson, Lloyd George, Clemenceau, and in revealing the political tensions they faced in resolving issues.  Macmillan is also very good in showing the underlying contradictions of the Paris Peace Conference.  Wilson in particular had made national-ethnic aspirations a central issue but putting this into practice proved insuperably difficult in many situations, such as Eastern Europe, and rubbed against national interests in many others.  Macmillan also does well in connecting decisions in Paris to some of our contemporary problems, such as the disintegration of Yugoslavia.  Finally, she treats the failings of the Paris conference, particularly with respect to Germany, in a clear and careful fashion.  While not sparing the mistakes of the treaty makers, she undercuts the common notion that the Versailles treaty was a vigorously punitive measure that was responsible in large part for WWII.  Following considerable modern scholarship, she presents the treaty as more moderate than thought commonly and suggests that Germany was treated too leniently in some ways.	2003-02-05
1260669:US	50676891	R8B9VPEWMY4RV	0871138646	304984877	Old Flames	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Very Good Historical Mystery Thriller	This is a fairly ambitious book in which the author seeks to combine three genres.  It is primarily a mystery-thriller set in the context of the Cold War.  Since the author is British, it returns to the staple preoccupation of British Cold War thrillers, the existence and nature of upper class traitors.  It contains a serious attempt to depict mid-50s Britain, and is so also a historical novel.  Finally, it is a psychological novel whose hero is approaching middle age and the examining his rather unsatisfactory personal life.  This is quite an undertaking and Lawton succeeds fairly well on all counts, producing a very readable book.  As a thriller, it is quite good and well above the average though not as good as LeCarre's best books.  As a historical protrait, I suspect Lawton does quite well and it is faily good as a historical novel.  The psychological element is similarly good and clearly intended to parallel some aspects of modern British history, which is a nice touch.  To really appreciate this part of the book, you really have to Lawton's prior book, Blackout, which features many of the characters in Old Flames.  Blackout is worth reading on it own.  Old Flames also contains a couple of cute insider jokes.  I'll buy anyone who can identify the wine joke a copy of the paperback edition.	2003-01-19
1269748:US	50676891	R8MLWIGGGK8HR	0140183523	256512938	Kim (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	3	11	18	N	N	Still worth reading	This is a very entertaining novel, though not as good as the best of Kipling's short stories.  As an adventure-oriented bildungsroman, Kim is well constructed with its gradual exposure of the ethnic and religous diversity of India, its engaging characters, and good quality of writing.  While written as an adventure novel, Kim is also Kipling's prediction of the British Raj would become.  The hero, Kim O'Hara, is in many ways an idealization of what saw as the logical conclusion of British India; a hybrid composed of both Indian and British elements.  In an ironic way, this is how things turned out in British India.  But where Kim is ethnically British with a largely Indian cultural background, the real inheritors of the British Raj were ethnic Indians (of a variety of ethnicities, castes, and faiths) whose outlook is colored strongly by Western influences.<br />How this book is read in a 'post-colonial' era is an interesting question.  It would be easy, and wrong, to dismiss this book merely as an Imperialist tract, though Kipling clearly supported British Imperial control. It is even wronger to attack Kipling's racism, though there are unquestionably stereotyped elements present.  In many ways, Kim is a celebration of India's ethnic and religous diversity.  Probably the most unsympathetic characters in the book are not Indian, but Britishers with provincial outlooks.  Kipling's support of the Empire is rather more subtle.  It is clear that he viewed the existence of the huge and relatively tolerant polyglot society that was the Raj as the result of relatively benign British rule and protection.  This is probably true. Without British overlordship, India is likely to have been a congeries of competing states riven by ethnic and religous divisions. Where Kipling is profoundly misleading is what he leaves out, particularly the economic exploitation India and crucial role India played in the Imperial economy.	2003-01-12
1276436:US	50676891	R3TPN9U90UY9M9	0198751850	250574229	An Enquiry concerning the Principles of Morals (Oxford Philosophical Texts)	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Outstanding Edition	This is another outstanding edition in the Oxford Philosophical Texts series.  This is a first rate book for both students and experts on Hume.  It contains an excellent annotated edition of the Enquiry itself, excellent background information on Hume, a very nice introduction to the Enquiry written by Tom Beauchamp, a leading Hume scholar and moral philosopher, an outstanding guide to the Hume literature, and a good glossary.  All for a very reasonable price.<br />An Enquiry Concerning the Principles of Morals (EPM) is one of the cornerstone texts in Western philosophy and is written with Hume's characteristic combination of incisive analysis and charming style.  Hume's goal is to describe the bases of human moral conduct.  As stated by Tom Beauchamp, EPM is descriptive rather than prescriptive.  While Hume clearly has strong opinions about what constitutes appropriate moral conduct, in EPM his focus is really on moral psychology rather than moral direction.  This approach is what would now be called metaethical.  As with his work on epistemology, Hume is also concerned with establishing the limits of human reason.  In Hume's analysis, reason has an important but limited role in moral judgements, crucial for reaching appropriate judgements but does not establish the basic principles for moral judgement.  Hume sees morality as based on an interesting interplay of moral sentiments, which he sees as intrinsic to human nature, self-interest, and social utility.  The importance of each of these varies with considerably in different social settings.  In family life and close personal relationships, moral sentiments dominate but the force of moral sentiment weakens as the range of socieity increases.  In more complex social settings, Hume sees a form of utilitarianism as restraining self-interest.  For Hume, specific moral systems are variable, somewhat situation dependent, and historically contingent.  Thought provoking and very readable.	2003-01-08
1288376:US	50676891	R2EQGELVK38Q3H	0805068104	926204962	The Wannsee Conference and the Final Solution: A Reconsideration	Books	3	19	22	N	N	Interesting Essay	This is an interesting, thoughtful, and well written essay on the dynamics of the Holocaust. Roseman's preoccupation is with inferring the processes by which the Nazis ultimately reached the decision to exterminate the Jews of Europe, as opposed to removing Jews from Germany. To a considerable extent, this essay is about historiography as much as the events themselves because there has been considerable debate on this issue among historians of the Holocaust. Roseman analyzes and summarizes a good deal of recent scholarship. He discusses explicitly the role of the notorious Wannsee conference but this is not a detailed discussion of that event, which would be impossible given the scanty documentation available, but uses the Wannsee conference as a hook for his general discussion of the decisions to proceed with extermination. Roseman makes a number of important points. There was no plan for extermination of Jews prior to the War. The Nazis initially wanted to remove Jews from Germany but expulsion seems to have been the preferred method. Several factors seems to have propelled the Nazi decision makers along their murderous path. There is no question that Hitler himself came to prefer extermination. The War itself acted as a radicalizing element. Competition among different sectors of the Nazi state was common and there seems to have been a race to see who could achieve murder the fastest. Finally, Roseman is careful to point out the importance of ideology in the motivations of all the major actors. This was not a group of simple functionaries executing orders blindly. Racist ideologies permeated the Civil Service. An important aspect that Roseman may be overlooking in his discussion of the radicalizing effects of the war is the sense of triumphalism that infected the Nazis.  In the winter of 1942, they were the masters of Europe, occupying most of France and the eastern Soviet Union, and controlling the major industrial assets of the continent.  Perhaps they felt that anything was possible, including the extermination of the European Jews and other perceived racial enemies.  This is a good book but really an extended essay rather than a regular monograph. Perhaps best read by individuals with some knowledge of the Holocaust and its historiography.t anything was possible, including the extermination of the European Jews and other perceived racial enemies.  This is a good book but really an extended essay rather than a regular monograph. Perhaps best read by individuals with some knowledge of the Holocaust and its historiography.	2002-12-30
1289008:US	50676891	R2Q2A7ZAHX45H6	0805069054	9917067	James Madison (The American Presidents Series)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Concise and Insightful	This is a very good study of Madison as president.  Wills is, as always, a source of insight and the quality of writing is up to his usual high standard.  Wills is primarily concerned with explaining why Madison's presidency was not very successful.  Wills begins by reminding us that Madison's presidency was perhaps more successful than commonly perceived.  He did serve 2 terms and did hand over the office to his chosen successor.  The War of 1812, which he blundered into, was brought to a reasonably successful conclusion.  Still, this is not a performance that matches his other remarkable achievements.  Wills points out that Madison was constitutionally unsuited to being a President, particularly a wartime President.  Madison was a modest, actually shy man, who excelled in the committee room but was certainly not the dynamic leader demanded by wartime events.  Madison was not, however, merely swept along by events.  Wills is careful to show that the War of 1812 was brought on in large part by Madison's unrealistic policies when in Jefferson's administration.  Madison's doctrinaire Republicanism and own political choices also hampered his ability to conduct the war well.  For example, he allowed the charter of the Bank of the United States to lapse, and the absence of a central bank became a major obstacle to adequate wartime financing.  Following a point made originally by Henry Adams in his great series of books on the Jefferson and Madison administrations, what really saved the American republic were the institutions developed by the Federalists, notably the small but highly competent professional military and navy.  Madison's administration would conclude with the de facto adoption of many Federalist policies.  Wills provides also nice overviews of Madison's pre- and post-presidential careers.  He is particularly good on Madison's attachment to the separation of Church and State.  Wills is careful to give Madison his due for positive achievements as a President.  For example, he was careful to stay within the bounds of the Constitution and his record on Civil Liberties as a wartime president is better than that of Lincoln or FDR.  A good book that whets your interest for more information on Madison and this period of American history.For example, he was careful to stay within the bounds of the Constitution and his record on Civil Liberties as a wartime president is better than that of Lincoln or FDR.  A good book that whets your interest for more information on Madison and this period of American history.	2002-12-30
1296018:US	50676891	R32F3NJUKTRFP6	0374281602	721325086	Reversible Errors: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Surprisingly Good	This is definitely the best book Turow has written.  Readers expecting a slick thriller like Presumed Innocent will be disappointed.  This is primarily a psychological novel using the conventions of the legal thriller.  All the major, and some of the minor, characters in the book are preoccupied with regret or actual remorse for past choices in their lives.  In the course of the book, several of them have the opportunity to remedy these choices; the book deals with how the characters confront these issues, which have both moral and personal dimensions.  This books draws on some of Turow's real strengths, particularly his ability to develop believable characters and his ability to write dialogue.  Much of the book is presented as dialogue between between major characters and Turow is particularly good at delineating character through such exchanges.  The primary protagonist, the lawyer Arthur Raven, is an especially appealing character.  A sort of Everyman, Raven proceeds forward driven by diligence and common decency (though in the world Turow has created, decency is anything but common), rather than any particular talents or special attributes.  His unlikely romance with the attractive but self-destructive Gillian Sullivan is handled especially well.  This book represents Turow's attempt to produce a book that transcends the genre in which he works. He has succeeded and this book stands comparison with the better work of other genre novelists, like PD James or John Le Carre, whose work breaks through the boundaries of their genres.	2002-12-23
1299056:US	50676891	R28CQYQWGZ7GAP	0385720793	424209838	Copenhagen	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Excellent	This play is an unusually clever and perceptive study of the nature of human memory and the ambiguity of human communication, touches on the social responsibility of scientists, and explores the nature of knowledge in general.  Frayn centers the play around the 1941 visit of Werner Heisenberg, then Professor of Physics at Leipzig and head of the German effort to develop nuclear weapons, and his former mentor, the great Danish physicist Niels Bohr.  What happened during that visit remains unknown, though there is apparently documentation about the visit in the Bohr archives that will be released someday in the future.  Did Heisenberg ask or want to ask Bohr about joining the German war effort?  Did he want to enlist Bohr's help in derailing everyone's efforts to develop nuclear weapons?  What did Bohr say?  What were the consequences of the visit?  Did Heisenberg deliberately impede the German effort to develop nuclear weapons?  There are no answers to these interesting questions and probably never will be.  Frayn's brilliant conceit is to structure the play, which contains only three characters - Heisenberg, Bohr, and Bohr's wife, in form that mimics many aspects of quantum physics.  Heisenberg's and Bohr's movements and verbal encounters mirror particle interactions, the whole play is permeated by the metaphor of uncertainty, and quantum entanglment is an implicit metaphor for the relationship of Heisenberg and Bohr.  The play is only 2 acts but is intellectually rich and repays careful reading.  It would be easy to use the scientific metaphors in a superficial manner but Frayn has done an excellent job of integrating science and history.  A nice addition is a thorough afterward by Frayn in which he discusses the history and historical literature on Heisenberg's visit to Bohr and the Heisenberg's role in the German nuclear weapons program.	2002-12-19
1303080:US	50676891	R4XSLHFWJRFGU	0312877404	477200685	Voyage of the Shadowmoon (The Moonworlds Saga)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Fun But A Bit Mechanical	This is a fun book from the inventive Sean McMullen.  A fantasy rather than sci-fi book set on a parallel universe where the world orbits a gas giant, there are anatomically different forms of humans, and there is a science of magic.  The plot concerns the efforts of various factions to obtain and control a magical doomsday device.  This book has many of the attractive features of his very enjoyable Greatwinter Trilogy. A large cast of characters, a complex but generally entertaining plot, clever plot devices, and a good deal of humor.  The plot does tend to overpower the characters.  McMullen showed in his book The Centurion's Empire that he can do a better job of character description.  Good vacation reading.	2002-12-16
1303574:US	50676891	R2S8QMNMF7LCP8	0374281602	721325086	Reversible Errors: A Novel	Books	4	40	42	N	N	Surprisingly Good Book	This is Turow's best novel.  Turow has taken a genre format, the legal thriller, and attempted to produce a broader psychological novel using the conventions of the genre.  The central plot element is the effort of a lawyer to free a semi-retarded prisoner from Death Row.  Set in Turow's fictional world of Kindle County, a fictionalized version of Chicago, the book recounts the efforts of the defense counsel, Arthur Raven, to free his client, and the equivalent efforts of the prosecuting team to sustain the conviction.  Wrapped around this armature are the primary themes of the book, regret for past choices and failures, and efforts to correct past errors.  All the major characters in this book are in some way haunted by prior choices in life.  In the course of the story, all of them have some opportunity to revisit and rectify those errors.  Some of these errors are crimes, some are ethical lapses, some are professional misconduct, some merely personal failings, and some varying combinations of all these.  <br />Turow is a good writer.  His characterizations are excellent and he has a real talent for writing dialogue.  The plot of Reversible Errors is constructed well, perhaps a bit too cleverly. His primary protagonist, Arthur Raven, is an extremely sympathetic character; a bit of an everyman who succeeds on the basis of diligence and decency rather than talent.  <br />This is an ambitious book and Turow largely succeeds in his aim of exploring regret and the consequences of unfortunate choices in life.  Some parts of the book are affecting.  This is probably the first of Turow's books that deserves to be classified with other works that surpass their genre such as the better novels of PD James or John Le Carre.	2002-12-16
1311170:US	50676891	R2FZTZSFF865UM	0198752482	183650094	An Enquiry concerning Human Understanding (Oxford Philosophical Texts)	Books	5	42	44	N	N	Outstanding Edition of Seminal Work	This is a superb edition of one of the basic works in Western philosophy.  Designed to be used by both casual and serious students of philosophy, this edition contains the text of Hume's Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding (EHU) and a series of other sections that provide background and further directions for studying Hume.  Included are an excellent precis of the EHU, a first rate annotated bibliography concerning works by and about Hume, considerable background material on Hume, and excellent notes to the text of the EHU.<br />The EHU is a concise and charmingly written presentation of Hume's views of the nature and particularly the limitations of human knowledge.  The EHU presents Humes basic concepts of human thought, human pattern recognition, and then proceeds to Hume's revolutionary analysis of the problem of induction.  Hume exposes our limitations in establishing certain cause and effect relations.  Hume's analysis of this problem and its corollaries leads to ultimate skepticism about our ability to know the external world with certainty and undermines much of the basis for religion.  Hume presents his ideas in an attractive style that owes much to famous 18th century essayists like Addison.<br />A fundamental work and very readable work.	2002-12-09
1323511:US	50676891	R25Z5DRZ1S41Y9	0812564758	173232144	The Centurion's Empire	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Solid but Not Excellent	This is an unusual time travel novel by the inventive Sean McMullen, the author of the very entertaining Greatwinter Trilogy.  In this book, time travel is accomplished one way by suspended animation technology discovered by a group of Etruscans. The hero is a Roman Centurion and this book is the story of his experiences while emerging from the ice episodically over the last 2000 years.  The central character is presented well and the first half of the book, covering classical Rome, Barbarian age Britain, and the high Middle ages, is entertaining. The second half of the book, dealing with the immediate near future is an attempt at a cyperpunk type adventure novel with a very convoluted plot and many of the stock tricks of this sub-genre.  It is less interesting.  Worth buying as a paperback, though not as a hardcover.	2002-11-29
1323700:US	50676891	R2IQQ6U9DM66BC	0140195017	612933632	The Monks of War: The Military Religious Orders (Arkana)	Books	3	15	18	N	N	Very Good Overview	This well written book is intended as a concise introduction to an interesting and important topic, the military orders of the Middle Ages.  Seward covers the founding of the major orders, their organization, and major episodes of their history.  To do real justice to this topic would be an immense task as the story covers centuries of European history.  Seward elected to produce an overview giving an outline of their history and highlighting some of the more picturesque episodes.  This book, consequently, sometimes has a superficial quality.  I would have liked, for example, a better description of the role of the Templars in Medieval commerce and banking.<br />Seward shows that the military orders were born in the Crusading zeal that infected Medieval Europe and were founded initially to help and safeguard pilgrims to the Holy Land.  They promptly became a unique Medieval hybrid, combining Cistercian monasticism and Chivalric knightly values. Rapidly gaining influence in the Crusader Kingdoms and considerable wealth in Europe, the military orders were significant actors in the complicated politics of the Eastern Mediterrenean.  Similar orders developed on other important frontiers between Christian Europe and non-Christian polities, notably in Spain and the eastern Baltic littoral.  In Spain, the military orders were the shock troops of the Reconquista.  In the Baltic, the Teutonic Knights led the conquest and Christianization of Prussia and what is now a good part of the Baltic states.<br />Seward shows well how the military orders become an integral component of religous and political life in Europe.  A consistent theme is that the growth in importance of the orders was accompanied by involvement in the complex dynastic, political, and religous struggles of Medieval Europe and the Crusader States.  The decline of the military orders in the Early Modern period was a result of the increasing power of European monarchies and declining need for their essential mission, the military struggle against non-Christians.  The military orders of Iberia were essentially absorbed by the Church and monarchies, the great Templar order was destroyed by the expanding power of the French monarchy, and the Hospitallers were marginalized by their expulsion from the Eastern Mediterrenean and the ultimate success of European struggle against the Ottoman empire.  Some of the orders survive today as charitable institutions associated with the remains of the European nobility., the military struggle against non-Christians.  The military orders of Iberia were essentially absorbed by the Church and monarchies, the great Templar order was destroyed by the expanding power of the French monarchy, and the Hospitallers were marginalized by their expulsion from the Eastern Mediterrenean and the ultimate success of European struggle against the Ottoman empire.  Some of the orders survive today as charitable institutions associated with the remains of the European nobility.	2002-11-29
1325907:US	50676891	R1G0KPDB6BBYGY	1585670111	840921070	Ataturk	Books	4	19	33	N	N	Fine Biography	This is the first english language biography of the formidable Mustafa Kemal Ataturk in almost 40 years.  Drawing on the extensive Turkish literature on Ataturk, Mango has produced a well organized, well written, and largely sympathetic biography of Ataturk.  Mango makes a systematic attempt to discard many of the semi-legendary distortions that Ataturk's followers attached to his life story while emphasizing Ataturk's remarkable achievements.  Given the nature of Ataturk's life, this is essentially a political biography, describing Ataturk's career as a soldier, politician and statesman.<br />Mango also provides a fine introduction to modern Turkish history.  Useful narrative includes a balanced and surprisingly sympathetic account of the reign of the last important Sultan, Abdulhamit, the imposition of a constitutional state prior to WWI, the events of WWI, the War of Independence, and the foundation of the modern Turkish state.  There is always a danger in combining political history with biography in that there is a tendency to make the subject of the biography central to all aspects of the history.  Mango largely avoids this trap.  This is partly because Ataturk was central to many of the key episodes of modern Turkish history and partly because Mango is careful not to let ascribe too much importance to Ataturk's actions at times when he was at the periphery of events.  Still, readers have to remember that this is a biography, not a history.  Necessarily, some very important events, such as the horrifying massacres of the Armenians by the Turkish government in WWI, are discussed only superficially.<br />Mango nicely covers Ataturk's early years as a young officer, his experience in WWI, his consistent immersion in nationalist politics, and his eventual emergence as the dominant leader in the post-war period.  Ataturk as able to parlay his prominence as a successful commander in WWI, the fact that he was not contaminated by being a close supporter of the WWI government, and his considerable political skills into developing the coalition of political activists and officers that founded the modern Turkish state.  His achievements were remarkable.  Turkey was a poor country devastated by the experience of WWI.  Considerable Turkish territory was occupied by the Allies, the Greeks hoped to carve off a large part of Turkey, and the remaining Armenian minorities were in a state of revolt.  Ataturk as able to forge a new government, used shrewd diplomacy to divide the Allies, and to reorganize the Army.  Under his leadership, the Turkish Army reconquered large parts of occupied eastern and western Turkey, inflicting decisive losses on the insurgent Armenians and the better equipped Greek army.  He then went on to become the dominant figure of post-war Turkish life, leading the nationalist movement to impose its version of modernization on Turkey.<br />Mango's presentation of Ataturk is largely fair but probably contains some limitations and flaws.  As a biographer, Mango's concentration on Ataturk results in an unavoidable tendency to deal with other important figures only in relation to Ataturk.  It is clear from Mango's account that the success of the War of Independence and the foundation of the Turkish state was the result of the activities of a remarkable group of leaders, mainly but not exclusively Army officers who had been trained by the Germans and with considerable experience in WWI.  Mango does not, and cannot, really discuss the roles of these individuals systematically.  Mango also lets Ataturk off too easily for some of the crimes of the War of Independence.  Clearly, there was great crimes committed by both the Greek and Turkish armies.  While Ataturk does not seem to be implicated in any of these crimes, it does not seem that he made any great effort to stop them.  He was not responsible for the infamous sack of Izmir (Symrna) but there is no evidence that he did anything to mitigate or prevent the violence.  Ataturk was a romantic nationalist who believed strongly ethnic identification with the land.  He wanted a Turkey for Turks, not a liberal pluralistic democracy.  He welcomed the expulsion of ethnic Greeks from Turkey and the transfer of ethnic Turks from Europe to Anatolia.  He did not approve of forcible expulsion, preferring negotiated population transfer, but welcomed the end result.<br />Mango errs also in characterizing Ataturk as an heir of the Enlightenment who wanted Turkey to develop into a modern, European, rationalistic state.  This interpretation is one of those half-truths that carries considerable weight. Ataturk, who spoke and read French with some fluency, appears to have been greatly influenced by the example of the French state.  I suspect, however, that great example was not the France of the Enlightenment or even the French Revolution, but the France of the Third Republic.  The latter was intensely nationalistic, centralized, anti-clerical, and modernizing in the specific sense of destroying traditional culture.  This seems to be the real model for Ataturk, not Voltaire.Ataturk was a romantic nationalist who believed strongly ethnic identification with the land.  He wanted a Turkey for Turks, not a liberal pluralistic democracy.  He welcomed the expulsion of ethnic Greeks from Turkey and the transfer of ethnic Turks from Europe to Anatolia.  He did not approve of forcible expulsion, preferring negotiated population transfer, but welcomed the end result.<br />Mango errs also in characterizing Ataturk as an heir of the Enlightenment who wanted Turkey to develop into a modern, European, rationalistic state.  This interpretation is one of those half-truths that carries considerable weight. Ataturk, who spoke and read French with some fluency, appears to have been greatly influenced by the example of the French state.  I suspect, however, that great example was not the France of the Enlightenment or even the French Revolution, but the France of the Third Republic.  The latter was intensely nationalistic, centralized, anti-clerical, and modernizing in the specific sense of destroying traditional culture.  This seems to be the real model for Ataturk, not Voltaire.	2002-11-27
1344320:US	50676891	R1MBXH3T46VTXX	0805067884	607359357	The Tristan Chord: Wagner and Philosophy	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Illuminating	This book is an investigation of the relationship between Wagner's art and his intellect. Bryan Magee, who has been both an academic philosopher and a music critic, is uniquely qualified to describe this relationship. The book is based on Magee's careful analysis of both Wagner's music and Wagner's voluminous writings, including his autobiographical works, letters, and polemical writings on art theory. Magee is also an expert on 19th century German philosophy.<br />Magee presents Wagner as both a great creative artist and a substantial self-conscious intellectual. Magee shows that Wagner made a conscious effort to shape his art to match philosophical/ideological concerns. Wagner's philosophical/idoelogical preoccupations did vary over the course of his life and this resulted in differences in content and forms of his operas. Magee is careful to demonstrate consistent themes (dare I say leitmotifs) throughout this artistic career. These include disgust with contemporary society, strong belief in the importance of love, and a conviction that Wagner's art could have a transforming effect on contemporary life.<br />Magee shows well that Wagner was initially a political radical and German nationalist with strong anarchist leanings. Under the distant influence of Hegel and the more immediate influence of Feuerbach, Wagner rejected contemporary society, conventional religion and mores, and believed strongly in the redemptive power of love, particularly sexual passion. Along with the idea that he could create an integrated music drama with equal roles for poetry, dramatic expression, and music, these ideas strongly color his early successful operas and writings about artistic theory. Wagner began the Ring cycle with these ideas in mind and intended that the Ring cycle would be an essentially revolutionary document, an incitment to the destruction of contemporary society.<br />Midway through the lengthy gestation of the Ring cycle, Wagner underwent a conversion experience after he encountered the work of Schopenhauer. Magee treats Wagner's experience with Schopenhauer sensitively. He shows that Wagner's embrace of Schopenhauer was based on very careful reading and analysis of Schopenhauer's work. Magee shows also that Wagner's enthusiasm for Schopenhauer resulted from the fact that Wagner's considerable intellect was already moving towards conclusions reached by Schopenhauer. Wagner's later work is shown to be a combination of Schopenhauerian ideas translated brilliantly into powerful music and opera.<br />Magee is an excellent writer with a warm, conversational style. As intellectual history this book is first-rate and it is highly accessible. A bonus of this book is that it is an excellent introduction to 19th intellectuals like Schopenhauer and Feuerbach whose work is largely unknown here. As an aside, Magee makes it clear that important ideas usually associated with Freud originally derive from Schopenhauer and Feuerbach. Magee provides also a very good chapter on Nietzsche's relationship with Wagner and an appendix on Wagner's anti-semitism. The former contains what I think is Magee's only misstep. He attributes Nietzsche's descent into insanity as being partly due to Nietzsche's realization that he would never be the creative artist that Wagner became. This is unlikely. Better explanations are that Nietzsche suffered from dementia due to tertiary syphlis or simply developed severe and probably idiopathic depression. The section on Wagner's anti-semitism is clear, unsparing but also vigorously attacks those who judge Wagner solely on this basis. Magee puts Wagner's anti-semitism in context and rebuts claims that his operas exemplify anti-semitism.after he encountered the work of Schopenhauer. Magee treats Wagner's experience with Schopenhauer sensitively. He shows that Wagner's embrace of Schopenhauer was based on very careful reading and analysis of Schopenhauer's work. Magee shows also that Wagner's enthusiasm for Schopenhauer resulted from the fact that Wagner's considerable intellect was already moving towards conclusions reached by Schopenhauer. Wagner's later work is shown to be a combination of Schopenhauerian ideas translated brilliantly into powerful music and opera. <br />Magee is an excellent writer with a warm, conversational style. As intellectual history this book is first-rate and it is highly accessible. A bonus of this book is that it is an excellent introduction to 19th intellectuals like Schopenhauer and Feuerbach whose work is largely unknown here. As an aside, Magee makes it clear that important ideas usually associated with Freud originally derive from Schopenhauer and Feuerbach. Magee provides also a very good chapter on Nietzsche's relationship with Wagner and an appendix on Wagner's anti-semitism. The former contains what I think is Magee's only misstep. He attributes Nietzsche's descent into insanity as being partly due to Nietzsche's realization that he would never be the creative artist that Wagner became. This is unlikely. Better explanations are that Nietzsche suffered from dementia due to tertiary syphlis or simply developed severe and probably idiopathic depression. The section on Wagner's anti-semitism is clear, unsparing but also vigorously attacks those who judge Wagner solely on this basis. Magee puts Wagner's anti-semitism in context and rebuts claims that his operas exemplify anti-semitism.	2002-11-11
1347208:US	50676891	R1I4DKQSE3O63X	014043593X	215075639	The Saga of King Hrolf Kraki (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	14	16	N	N	Interesting and Distinctive Saga	This is an interesting saga featuring semi-legendary Norse characters.  It is presented and translated by the distinguished scholar of Icelandic history, Jesse Byock.  The saga is a series of linked tales related to the life of the legendary Danish monarch, Hrolf Hraki.  It is an example of a form of Icelandic saga based on the legendary or semi-legendary Norse past rather that the family or historical basis of many well known Icelandic sagas.  This saga is drawn from the same stock of legends and characters used by the Beowulf poet.  The stories are definitely interesting, the translation reads well, and Byock's introduction and notes are excellent.  Nonetheless, this saga is of greater intellectual than artistic interest.  Unlike Beowulf, this is a compilation of tales, not a unified poetic work.  While the tales are good reading, this saga lacks the focus and poetic majesty of Beowulf.  This saga lacks also the intensely realistic qualities of the family sagas and the unity derived from concentration on a few characters.  This book is short, reads smoothly and is well worth the time expended on reading it.	2002-11-08
1355718:US	50676891	R2MYPY968HT9F3	0375505741	867162441	Blood of Victory: A Novel	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Good Thriller	This is the most recent espionage novel from Alan Furst. Set in WWII, it concerns the efforts of British Intelligence to impede the flow of Rumanian oil into Germany. As with all of Furst's books, the quality of writing is good, the plot interesting, and his attention to period detail is excellent. This book is clearly superior to most thrillers. Despite these positive features, this book has a major shortcoming. Furst seems to be writing the same book over and over again. The plots and central characters of his books are all relatively similar. It is not fair to say that if you've read one, you've read them all but the repetitive elements are becoming stale.	2002-11-01
1355990:US	50676891	RL127BKWNYR3L	0195141776	362775166	The Slaveholding Republic: An Account of the United States Government's Relations to Slavery	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Excellent	This is the last work of the late Don Fehrenbacher, the author of the Dred Scott Decision and other outstanding books on American history. This book was incomplete at his death and was finished by one of his former students, Ward McAfee. Professor McAfee appears to have done an excellent job, the book certainly appears seamless and written with Fehrenbacher's distinctive and precise style.<br />In this book, Fehrenbacher explored the relationship of the Federal government to slavery from the formulation of the constitution through the Civil War. The quality of writing is excellent and the level of scholarship high. Fehrenbacher's points are buttressed by his careful analysis of American legislative and legal history.<br /><br />Fehrenbacher begins with the issue of whether or not the Constitution protected slavery. This charge was made initially by Abolitionists in the 1840s and has been often repeated in recent years. Fehrenbacher's close analysis reaches a different conclusion. His view, well supported by careful reading of the original documents, is that the Constitution was neutral towards slavery. The Founders meant neither to protect nor discourage slavery. Many of the clauses cited as protecting slavery were the product of other concerns, notably the primary concern with producing a constitution acceptable to all sections.<br />What followed the implementation of the Constitution was, however, another matter. Fehrenbacher devotes several well documented chapters to the different way in which the Federal government supported slavery. These include protection of slavery within the District of Columbia, foreign policy actions that protected the privileges of slaveholders, Federal censorship of Abolitionist propaganda, and Federal support of fugitive slave pursuits. For example, successive American governments were remarkably lax in pursuing suppression of American commercial involvement in the African slave trade, well after importation of slaves into the USA was abolished.<br /><br />The Federal tilt towards slavery was the product, not of constitutional protection, but of Southern domination of the Federal branch and Southern political unity on any issue touching slavery. Federal involvement in protecting slavery produced recurrent crises whenever the question of slavery expansion into newly acquired territories occurred. Fehrenbacher has a nice description of these recurrent crises though this is an oft described problem.<br />Finally, Fehrenbacher demonstrates why the South found the election of Lincoln to be so threatening. After benefiting from decades of Federal tilt towards slavery, Southerners were convinced that Republican domination of the Executive branch would result in a Rederal anti-slavery tilt and put slavery at risk in the whole USA. Fehrenbacher then concludes with a nice concise description of Federal policy towards slavery during the Civil War and Reconstruction, including Lincoln's crucial role.<br />An fine and well written book.abolished. <BR> <BR>The Federal tilt towards slavery was the product, not of constitutional protection, but of Southern domination of the Federal branch and Southern political unity on any issue touching slavery. Federal involvement in protecting slavery produced recurrent crises whenever the question of slavery expansion into newly acquired territories occurred. Fehrenbacher has a nice description of these recurrent crises though this is an oft described problem. <br />Finally, Fehrenbacher demonstrates why the South found the election of Lincoln to be so threatening. After benefiting from decades of Federal tilt towards slavery, Southerners were convinced that Republican domination of the Executive branch would result in a Rederal anti-slavery tilt and put slavery at risk in the whole USA. Fehrenbacher then concludes with a nice concise description of Federal policy towards slavery during the Civil War and Reconstruction, including Lincoln's crucial role. <br />An fine and well written book.	2002-10-31
1369706:US	50676891	R3961364ZASUTA	0679429328	701258128	Charles Darwin:The Power of Place	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The Best Biographical Work on Darwin	This is the second volume of Janet Browne's outstanding biography of Darwin.  The first volume, Voyaging, covered Darwin's family, childhood, early adulthood, the voyage of the Beagle, and the formation of his ideas of evolution and natural selection.  This book begins with Darwin established firmly as a major figure in British (and international) scientific life and settled happily with his large family at Down House in Sussex.  Working on several projects and slowly on what he intends to be a major series of volumes on the 'species question', which he has essentially solved years earlier, Darwin's tranquility is disturbed when he receives a proposed article from the itinerent naturalist and collector, Alfred Russell Wallace.  Seeking Darwin's patronage for his ideas, Wallace has also developed independently a theory of evolution and natural selection.  This event precipitates Darwin's publication of his ideas and the publication of the first of his many books on evolution.  The result is modern biology and Darwin's ascent from esteemed scientist known to a small circle of colleagues to Victorian celebrity.<br />Browne presents Darwin as a man who was in many important respects a deeply conventional Victorian.  A benevolent patriarch who governed his family carefully but firmly, he had conventional moral views.  His politics were Liberal but not Radical in nature, reflecting his middle class and Dissenting family background.  Strongly attached to his home, he shunned publicity and preferred family and a close circle of friends to a more open social life.  He had a retiring personality but a strong sense of responsibility and served as local magistrate and as a vestryman for his local parish.  Browne emphasizes his strong sense of connection with his home, his rural neighborhood (if that is the correct term), and his country.<br />Beneath this surface of conventionality and parochialism, Darwin was a decidedly unconventional thinker and a man with an unmatched perspective on the natural world.  Darwin spent hours every day engaged in correspondence on biologically related subjects.  His accumulated correspondence (of which Browne is co-editor)comprises thousands and thousands of letters.  He had an international network of correspondents and pursued information on a dizzying array of topics related to biology and natural history.  Darwin was undoubtedly the best informed biologist of his time and possibly in human history.  Once he developed his basic insights into evolution and natural selection, Darwin pursued his ideas to their logical conclusions.  This led him to deeply unconventional ideas, notably the abandonement of any notions that a higher power guided life on earth.  Most of his closest collaborators and friends could not follow him along this path.  Wallace, for example, could not accept that natural variation and variation seen in domesticated animals was due to the same underlying phenomenon.  Wallace could not also accept that human evolution was without divine guidance.  The American botanist Asa Gray, Darwin's friend and American publicist, and his mentor the geologist Charles Lyell, continued to feel that evolution was guided in some manner.  Darwin's friend and vociferous defender, TH Huxley, accepted evolution without divine guidance but not that natural selection was its driving force.  The inability of most Victorians to accept all of Darwin's ideas illustrates how difficult it was to abandon conventional religous ideas and the dominant Victorian notion of Progress.  This fact illustrates also Darwin's intellectual radicalism in his own time.<br />Given Darwin's mixture of parochialism and internationalis, what is The Power of Place which Browne features in the title of this volume?  Browne does not explicitly tell readers but her outstanding exposition makes clear that Darwin's place was the whole natural world.  His remarkable ability to observe and experiment with local phenomena, his incredible knowledge of biology, and his conviction that a small number of basic forces underly all biological phenomena, relfected his conviction that what he observed in his backyard was universally applicable.  Darwin devoted thousands of writing to demonstrating that power of his insights.  As he pointed out, the power of his ideas is that they explain not just a few phenomena but virtually the whole span of biology, a fact confirmed triumphantly in the course of the 20th century.  This is not to say that all his ideas were correct.  His pangenesis hypothesis of hereditary was deeply wrong, but his core ideas remain indisputable.<br />Browne shows beautifully that Darwin's dedication to preserving his quiet life was necessary for his career.  Independently wealthy because of his father's shrewd investments and his own astute financial management, Darwin didn't have to be a professional scientist.  This freed him from the administrative and educational obligations of professional scientists like his friends Huxley or Hooker.  It also gave him the freedom not to specialize.  Though he remained dedicated to botany, he pursued a remarkable number of other topics, and essentially had an intellectual freedom that was probably unparalleled in this time.  Browne shows well how Darwin's chronic illness fits into this pattern.  Rather than speculating about the causes of his chronic illness, she shows how it fit into the pattern of his life.<br />As with Voyaging, this book also casts valuable light on other important aspects of Victorian life.  This book contains extremely useful information on the function of the Victorian postal system, the organization of Victorian science, Victorian publishing, and family life.<br />Browne is that rare combination of superb scholar with an outstanding and unobtrusive writing style.  A terrific book.ge of biology, and his conviction that a small number of basic forces underly all biological phenomena, relfected his conviction that what he observed in his backyard was universally applicable.  Darwin devoted thousands of writing to demonstrating that power of his insights.  As he pointed out, the power of his ideas is that they explain not just a few phenomena but virtually the whole span of biology, a fact confirmed triumphantly in the course of the 20th century.  This is not to say that all his ideas were correct.  His pangenesis hypothesis of hereditary was deeply wrong, but his core ideas remain indisputable.  <BR>Browne shows beautifully that Darwin's dedication to preserving his quiet life was necessary for his career.  Independently wealthy because of his father's shrewd investments and his own astute financial management, Darwin didn't have to be a professional scientist.  This freed him from the administrative and educational obligations of professional scientists like his friends Huxley or Hooker.  It also gave him the freedom not to specialize.  Though he remained dedicated to botany, he pursued a remarkable number of other topics, and essentially had an intellectual freedom that was probably unparalleled in this time.  Browne shows well how Darwin's chronic illness fits into this pattern.  Rather than speculating about the causes of his chronic illness, she shows how it fit into the pattern of his life. <BR>As with Voyaging, this book also casts valuable light on other important aspects of Victorian life.  This book contains extremely useful information on the function of the Victorian postal system, the organization of Victorian science, Victorian publishing, and family life.  <BR>Browne is that rare combination of superb scholar with an outstanding and unobtrusive writing style.  A terrific book.	2002-10-20
1381380:US	50676891	RM5YZ2YIZO0YW	0198780710	727808309	We Now Know: Rethinking Cold War History (Council on Foreign Relations Book)	Books	5	54	61	N	N	Outstanding	In this book, John Lewis Gaddis sets out to describe the major structural features of the Cold War, identify their causes, provide a narrative overview of the Cold War from its inception to the Cuban Missile Crisis, and embed the Cold War in the larger context of 20th century history. Gaddis succeeds in accomplishing all these ends in a well written book of less than 300 hundred pages.  This is a considerable achievement.  A good part of this book is driven by the fact that the end of the Cold War has resulted in access to Soviet, Chinese, and Eastern European sources that provide information about key events and decision makers.  Much prior work concentrated one sidely on Western policies and policy makers.  The new archival information allows reconstruction of important decisions and a more complete picture of the Cold War.  It is important to note that not all the new information relates to Communist sources.  For example, based on the availability of new documentation, Gaddis presents an account of John Kennedy's behavior in the Cuban Missile Crisis that varies considerably from the standard accounts.<br />Gaddis addresses a number of key issues.  Why did the Cold War begin?  He sees the Cold War as a result of Stalin's insecurity and brutal Soviet conduct in Eastern Europe.  Given the conduct of Soviet Armies and Stalin's aggressive foreign policy, the USA and its Western European Allies had no choice but to respond to Stalin in some form of confrontation.  Was the Cold War a conflict just between the USA and the Soviet Union?  Gaddis is careful to emphasize the autonomy of many decision makers during the Cold War.  Some of these are surprising.  An early and important event was the declaration of independence issued by Yugoslav communists in 1948.  This event infuriated Stalin and played a large role in precipitating the Stalinist repression that occurred in many Eastern European Soviet satellites, further scaring Western European governments and pushing them closer to the USA.  The emergence of NATO is presented very much as driven by Western European governments with the British playing a particularly important role.  Gaddis contrasts the wisdom of American policy towards Europe and Japan with the ultimate failure of the Soviet occupation of Eastern Europe.  The Americans nourished European recovery with the Marshall plan, planted democracies in Germany and Japan, and tolerated a good deal of independence by important European partners.  The Eastern European Soviet satellites, in contrast, were a chronic source of dissent and required diversion of considerable Soviet economic resources to maintain Soviet hegemony.  This latter phenomena was actually predicted by the American diplomat George Kennan in the late 40s.<br />Gaddis deals very well with the problem of divided Germany and the expansion of the Cold War into Asia.  He treats the Chinese and North Koreans as important independent forces and describes nicely the complexity of relations between the Soviets, the Chinese, and the North Koreans.  Similarly, Gaddis provides a nice analysis of the expansion of the Cold War into the Third World, revealing very well how American policies, so successful in Europe and Japan, were mistaken in the Middle East and Latin America.  Another topic dealt with very well is the role of nuclear weapons in the Cold War.  In Gaddis' view, nuclear weapons had a dual role.  They reduced the chance of direct conflict between the US and the Soviet Union but provided the only arena in which it was possible for the Soviets to maintain some sort of parity with the West.  The last effect considerably prolonged the Cold War.<br />Gaddis finishes after the Cuban missile crisis.  This is a good choice for several reasons.  It is likely that important documents relevant to the post-Missile Crisis period are only now emerging, so reassessment would be premature.  It may be true also that in many important respects, the Cold War was over.  The USA had triumphed in Western Europe and Japan, the Eastern European satellite states were a chronic headache for the Soviets, nuclear weapons had stablized the conflict, and conflicts in the 3rd world would never be crucial.<br />Finally, I have to address some comments made by other reviewers.  Gaddis is not a right wing bigot.  This is an evenhanded and fair book.  It is written concisely and without literary flair but I would not describe it as dry.  It is very difficult to combine narrative and analysis in a concise manner, especially when dealing with controversial topics like these.  Gaddis has done an admirable job and deserves our thanks for bringing his analysis of the Cold War before the broad reading public.d triumphed in Western Europe and Japan, the Eastern European satellite states were a chronic headache for the Soviets, nuclear weapons had stablized the conflict, and conflicts in the 3rd world would never be crucial.  <BR>Finally, I have to address some comments made by other reviewers.  Gaddis is not a right wing bigot.  This is an evenhanded and fair book.  It is written concisely and without literary flair but I would not describe it as dry.  It is very difficult to combine narrative and analysis in a concise manner, especially when dealing with controversial topics like these.  Gaddis has done an admirable job and deserves our thanks for bringing his analysis of the Cold War before the broad reading public.	2002-10-10
1411670:US	50676891	R34912E9Y59FB	0691007462	138726122	Dissolution	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Excellent	This is a very interesting book on the collapse of East Germany (the German Democratic Republic; GDR) at the end of the Cold War.  Maier is a distinguished scholar who uses the example of the GDR to explore the factors and specific events leading to the fall of the communist states of eastern Europe.  The book includes a careful and insightful of the nature of repression in the GDR and how the organization of the state and society gradually undermined the legitimacy of the state.  There is also a fine analysis of the economic factors that led to the economic crisis that precipitated the crisis of communism at the end of the Cold War.  Maier uses a comparative approach to show differences between the GDR and the failure of neighboring states in eastern Europe, mainly Poland and Czechoslovakia.  He is very good on showing both the common features and the specific and important differences between these nations and how these differences resulted in the different character of state collapse in these nations.  The common factors he isolates, however, can be taken as the underlying causes of the collapse of all the communist states.  This analysis is interwoven with a detailed and very readable narration of the unraveling of the GDR and its subsequent absorption into a unified Germany dominated by the old West Germany.  This book reveals a large number of remarkable ironies.  We have the spectacle of the aged GDR leadership requiring the censorship of Soviet publications to prevent ideological contamination of the GDR by reformist ideas.  The same leadership, however, borrowed excessively from Western banks and governments in an effort to raise living standards in the GDR and then concealed the extent of the debt from their Soviet partners.  Probably the only time the people of the GDR had real freedom of action was after the Soviets relinquished their control and mass demonstrations were key factors in bringing down the GDR.  Once the communist state was destroyed, however, unification became inevitable and terms of unification were dictated by the West Germans.<br />This book does have some shortcomings.  This is not a history of the collapse of communism as a whole, so there is no treatment of events in the Soviet Union except as how they impinge on the GDR.  It is very clear that the actions of Soviet leaders, particularly Gorbachov, were critical.  Once the Soviet leadership made clear that they would not back up the use of force to prevent the fall of the GDR, it was over for the communists of the GDR. This is kind of like analyzing the movement of the moons of Jupiter through the Solar System without analyzing the movement of Jupiter itself.  Several chapters contain asides in which Maier departs from his main narrative or analysis to pursue somewhat tangential themes.  These asides vary in quality.  For example, his discussion of the differences between attempted revolutions in Germany and those in France and England is interesting.  His suggestion, however, that the communist command economies weren't intrinsically flawed is belied by the economic data he presents.  Another minor defect is the presence of some paragraphs containing academic jargon. To paraphrase Stalin, whenever I read the word discourse, I reach for my blue pencil.er, unification became inevitable and terms of unification were dictated by the West Germans.<BR>This book does have some shortcomings.  This is not a history of the collapse of communism as a whole, so there is no treatment of events in the Soviet Union except as how they impinge on the GDR.  It is very clear that the actions of Soviet leaders, particularly Gorbachov, were critical.  Once the Soviet leadership made clear that they would not back up the use of force to prevent the fall of the GDR, it was over for the communists of the GDR. This is kind of like analyzing the movement of the moons of Jupiter through the Solar System without analyzing the movement of Jupiter itself.  Several chapters contain asides in which Maier departs from his main narrative or analysis to pursue somewhat tangential themes.  These asides vary in quality.  For example, his discussion of the differences between attempted revolutions in Germany and those in France and England is interesting.  His suggestion, however, that the communist command economies weren't intrinsically flawed is belied by the economic data he presents.  Another minor defect is the presence of some paragraphs containing academic jargon. To paraphrase Stalin, whenever I read the word discourse, I reach for my blue pencil.	2002-09-12
1421895:US	50676891	R33K1TPST5KWX6	0802151477	700189909	Edward II (Brecht, Bertolt)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Interesting Part of the Brecht Canon	This play is Brecht's adaptation of Marlowe's Edward II.  I suspect this play will be surprising to most readers of Brecht because it contains considerably less of the overt social satire and commentary associated usually with Brecht.  More than anything else, this play is a character of study of Edward's refusal to heed social conventions.  This play is surprisingly successful, at least when read.  Brecht elevates Edward's wilfullness into a virtue and makes him a surprisingly sympathetic character.  The play displays Brecht's wit and stagecraft quite well.	2002-09-02
1422176:US	50676891	R2XL0DE4PPVKNH	0140441379	8490560	The Nibelungenlied: Prose Translation (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	14	16	N	N	Very Interesting	This interesting book is a major work of Medieval literature.  The epic is in verse but translated into prose because of the difficulty of sustaining a verse translation in modern English (and apparently in modern German as well).  The translator is a well known scholar and translator.  Many readers will be familiar with elements of this work because the anonymous author of the Nibelungenlied drew on the same stock of Northern European legends and literature that Wagner used for the Ring cycle.  This tale deals primarily with Siegfried's marriage, death at the hands of his wife's family, and the revenge exacted by Siegfried's wife, Kriemhild.  The poem is set in the high Middle Ages, prior to the Black Death, and the heroes are apparently supposed to exemplify chivalric virtues.  These values, based on violent personal conduct, the feudal bond, the apparently civilizing effect of love, and remarkable conspicuous consumption, will be foreign to modern audiences.  The Nibelungenlied provides some real insight into the psychology of this period and even in translation, is an interesting work of literature.	2002-09-02
1436730:US	50676891	R13ADIVXKU0Z7R	0743431715	327239833	A Small Town in Germany	Books	4	40	43	N	N	Excellent Novel	This might be Le Carre's most ambitious and best written book.  It contains a host of well drawn characters and the clever plotting typical of all Le Carre's best work.  As with his other good books, Le Carre uses the spy novel format to investigate matters well beyond the usual formulas of thrillers.  This book is set in Bonn, in the late 50s or early 60s.  Almost all the action takes place within the British embassy.  The latter is depicted as a microcosm of British society, with its class, ethnic, and religous divisions, its repressions and emphasis on maintaining British prestige.  This book is an allegory and devastating critique of British national policy in that period.  Le Carre shows the insularity of British society, its inability to deal with reduction to a second-rate military and economic power, and its preference for preferring shabby deals maintaining British prestige to concrete achievements.	2002-08-19
1444767:US	50676891	R2UM2S2VCMING0	0743442539	682630645	The Spy Who Came In from the Cold	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Transcends Genre	This is the book that really launched Le Carre's career as a writer.  It displays all the qualities that make his work attractive.  The subtle presentation of the complicated and surprising plot makes a very unlikely series of events seem natural.  The character development is superb with real psychological insight and rigorous attention to detail.  The quality of writing is excellent and miles above the usual standard of thrillers.  Animating this book and all his best books are concerns with substantial moral issues.  Do the ends justify the means?  If so, then what amount of betrayal and deception is acceptable?  If both sides in conflict like the Cold War employ the same immoral methods, is there a real difference between them?  Finally, what are the moral and personal costs of using these methods, even in an apparently good cause?  Le Carre posed these questions in the context of stories about the small world of espionage, but they apply equally well to many facets of national policy during the Cold War.	2002-08-11
1450001:US	50676891	R2UMZUP7VFSSGL	0140084428	54419163	English Creek (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	3	27	35	N	N	Good Bildungsroman	This is a very good coming of age novel - historical novel.  Set in rural Montana on the eve of World War II, English Creek describes the summer experiences of an intelligent 15 year old.  Written by a Montana native who has done a good deal of historical research, English Creek is not only a Bildungsroman but also a detailed portrait of life in rural Montana.  Told with humor and considerable insight, English Creek is a sweet but not saccharine book about a more innocent but not necessarily easier time.	2002-08-06
1452241:US	50676891	R36JPM9OIVZX9H	0394751728	442795076	War Without Mercy: Race and Power in the Pacific War	Books	4	18	24	N	N	Interesting and Fair	This interesting book is an analysis of racist ideology in the conflict between the Allies and Japan in WWII.  The author is a distinguished scholar known well for his innovative work on modern Japan.  As other reviewers comment, this book presupposes a significant knowledge of WWII; readers new to this area will find themselves at sea.  The book contains 2 essentially parallel components; analysis of Western racist thinking about the Japanese and analysis of Japanese racist thinking about the West.  Treatment of both areas is systematic and fair.  Dower uses a broad range of material to investigate these issues, including study of the usual historical materials like diplomatic documents, study of scholarly work done during WWII, and study of mass media.  He attempts to provide a nuanced picture of this problem and is largely successful.  For example, he has an interesting discussion of efforts by notable scholars, mainly anthropologists like the famous Ruth Benedict, to provide information useful to military and government.  Some of this work was insightful and some, like the Freudian analyses of Japanese culture, ludicrous.  It is important to note that this is not a volume driven by a naive conception that racism was responsible for the war but Dower argues convincingly that racism, on both sides, colored the conflict and gave the war in the Pacific and Southeast Asia a particular character.  The section on Japan is probably the most interesting because it is hte least familiar to most readers.  Dower shows very well the pervasive and distinctive character of Japanese racism, which differed significantly in character and origins from Western racism.  Dower may underestimate inadvertantly somewhat the impact of Japanese racism.  He shows very well that Japanese racism extended to other Asian ethnic groups and reviews the extensive evidence about the enormous casulties, particularly in China, inflicted by Japanese Imperialism.  Since the focus of this book is not on the Japanese Empire in Asia but rather on the conflict with the US, Great Britain, and Australia, this extremely important topic does not get as much attention as it should.  The last chapter of the book, in which Dower deals with the Occupation and also with modern attitudes is problematic.  Dower points out that despite the ideology of hate and racism, the Occupation was relatively benign and that the Japanese actually embraced all the important changes imposed by the victors (see his excellent book, Embracing Defeat, on this topic).  Dower suggests that aspects of the racist ideologies of both sides were flexible enough to incorporate elements that would encourage benign paternalism by the Americans and acceptance of outside innovation by the Japanese.  This is a tenable hypothesis but an alternative hypothesis is that the racist ideologies were never that important.  The last chapter is also dated.  Written in the mid-80s, at the height of Japanese economic triumphalism, the last chapter contains discussions about attitudes that now seem rather dated.n the Japanese Empire in Asia but rather on the conflict with the US, Great Britain, and Australia, this extremely important topic does not get as much attention as it should.  The last chapter of the book, in which Dower deals with the Occupation and also with modern attitudes is problematic.  Dower points out that despite the ideology of hate and racism, the Occupation was relatively benign and that the Japanese actually embraced all the important changes imposed by the victors (see his excellent book, Embracing Defeat, on this topic).  Dower suggests that aspects of the racist ideologies of both sides were flexible enough to incorporate elements that would encourage benign paternalism by the Americans and acceptance of outside innovation by the Japanese.  This is a tenable hypothesis but an alternative hypothesis is that the racist ideologies were never that important.  The last chapter is also dated.  Written in the mid-80s, at the height of Japanese economic triumphalism, the last chapter contains discussions about attitudes that now seem rather dated.	2002-08-04
1458880:US	50676891	R2IBP0Y0JYQCEY	156947107X	846148201	Stonekiller	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Good Police Procedural	Historically based mystery novels are very popular.  Most of them are plot retreads in fancy dress with relatively little appreciation for the historical background.  This book and series of books is an exception.  This is a well written book set in Occupied France during WWII.  The attention to period detail is very good and I believe that Janes has done a good job of conveying the atmosphere of this period.  In other respects, this is a solid book, a good combination of police procedural and hard boiled American style detective novel.  Janes does, however, have a taste for excessively elaborate plots.  In addition, his leading characters are perhaps a bit too good guyish to be solidly creditable.  A bit of moral ambiguity would more realistic.	2002-07-29
1462197:US	50676891	RM2MSFCWLVQI2	0441000592	826400166	Logical Magician	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Joint Review of A Logical Magician and A Calculating Magic	This is an entertaining and lighthearted pair of fantasy novels.  As with other books of this type, the basic premise is that magical and mythical creatures continue to live among us.  Weinberg finds witty ways to integrate the magical into ordinary life.  The magician Merlin is a financial consultant, wood nymphs inhabit shopping malls, etc.  The hero is a young mathematician who uses logic and knowledge of modern society to vanquish the villains.  Of these two books, A Calculating Magic is the more amusing with better character development and clever use of Norse and Arabic mythology.  The major joke at the end of A Calculating Magic is particularly clever.  These books are hard to find but well worth a few dollars in a used book store.	2002-07-26
1462377:US	50676891	R1CIE9GVY3VF5X	0441001440	410771789	A Calculated Magic	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Joint Review of A Calculating Magic and A Logical Magician	This is an entertaining and lighthearted pair of fantasy novels.  As with other books of this type, the basic premise is that magical and mythical creatures continue to live among us.  Weinberg finds witty ways to integrate the magical into ordinary life.  The magician Merlin is a financial consultant, wood nymphs inhabit shopping malls, etc.  The hero is a young mathematician who uses logic and knowledge of modern society to vanquish the villains.  Of these two books, A Calculating Magic is the more amusing with better character development and clever use of Norse and Arabic mythology.  The major joke at the end of A Calculating Magic is particularly clever.  These books are hard to find but well worth a few dollars in a used book store.	2002-07-26
1462794:US	50676891	R1TAVFEO8YB73S	0393046869	699211673	Embracing Defeat: Japan in the Wake of World War II	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Excellent Social History of the Occupation of Japan	This fine book is a thematic exploration of the experience and consequences of the American occupation of Japan.  Dower is concerned with understanding how Japanese society, at all levels, experienced the occupation, how the Americans perceived Japan and the reasons for specific American actions, and how the occupation set the stage for the subsequent development of Japanese society.  Readers should be aware that this is not a conventional narrative history.  Rather, Dower moves through the occupation discussing issues thematically.  The best way to get the maximum benefit of reading this book is to review the relevant narrative history in a overview text of modern Japanese history.  Both James McClain's and Marius Jansen's recently published books provide concise and illuminating narratives about this period.<br />Dower begins by discussing the aftermath of the war and the expectations of the victors.  It is clear that from the outset, the American occupation would be based on a paradox.  The Americans wished to construct a democratic society but also wished to impose, without discussion, their views of how to conduct democracy.  The Americans also made the decision, different from the initial occupation in Germany, to govern indirectly through the existing Japanese state.  This was convenient in the short run but reinforced the importance of the central bureaucracy, which had already become increasingly important during the pressures of managing a wartime economy.  Many of the Americans, notably MacArthur, his principal subordinates, and many of the important figures in Washington, viewed Japan as an 'Oriental' state populated largely by slavish subjects and needing paternalistic guidance.  This was true even for experienced officials with considerable experience in pre-war Japan.  In fact, virtually all of the important changes imposed in the early years of the occupation were embraced by the Japanese. Land reform, a new legal code granting women greater rights, functioning labor unions, the destruction of paternalistic rights, guaranteed civil rights, and a reformed electoral system, were imposed by the Americans but implemented enthusiastically by Japanese.  Large segments of Japanese society had chafed under the authoritarianism of the preceding decades and found the new system liberating.  Even the new constitution, written quickly by a group of idealistic, younger Americans, was embraced by the Japanese.  During the initial years of the occupation, the Japanese ceased to be Imperial subjects and became citizens.<br />The effects of the American occupation were, however, mixed.  Particularly after the outbreak of the Korean War and the hardening of antagonism with the Soviet Union, the Americans became increasingly concerned about leftist movements.  American censorship and pressures against what were perceived as threatening movements were often harsh and irrational.  The Americans preferred governing through conservative politicians and the powerful central bureaucracy. The Americans often utilized informal censorship and informal control of objectionable movements. This style of government encouraged conservative conformity and would have lasting impact.  Other American actions had long term negative consequences.  The American decision to proceed with a relatively small number of show trials about war crimes contributed to Japanese reluctance to face the aggressive and often criminal activities of the pre-war and wartime Japanese state.  The often farcial efforts of the Americans and conservative politicians to shield the Emperor from criticism contributed to this problem.<br />Dower also has a very interesting section on the effect of the occupation on the Japanese economy.  The relatively centralized direction of the Japanese economy is often stated to be a distinctive feature of Japanese culture.  Dower shows that this system is a relatively recent phenomenon with strong roots in efforts to centralize direction of the wartime economy.  During the occupation, American actions would wittingly and unwittingly reinforce these centralizing tendencies.  In addition, many prominent Japanese economists and planners, quite a few of whom had been purged from Universities and public life during the war, were leftists sympathetic to central direction.  The new found, and American instigated, freedoms of the post-war period allowed these individuals to re-enter public life.<br />An additional attractive feature is the presence of a number of revealing photographs.  See page 55 for a devastating image of the consequences of failed Japanese imperialism.the wartime economy.  During the occupation, American actions would wittingly and unwittingly reinforce these centralizing tendencies.  In addition, many prominent Japanese economists and planners, quite a few of whom had been purged from Universities and public life during the war, were leftists sympathetic to central direction.  The new found, and American instigated, freedoms of the post-war period allowed these individuals to re-enter public life.  <BR>An additional attractive feature is the presence of a number of revealing photographs.  See page 55 for a devastating image of the consequences of failed Japanese imperialism.	2002-07-25
1464983:US	50676891	R3AQDP1RPGQR7V	067407405X	602083636	Biologists under Hitler	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Thorough and Revealing	This excellent book is a description and analysis of academic biology under the Nazis.  This book has an interesting genesis.  The author is a biologist and former high school science teacher who became a scholar.  Deichmann's work was not supervised by a historian.  Her mentor was Benno Muller-Hill, a prominent geneticist who has written about genetics and eugenics during the Nazi regime.  Unlike many histories, this book has a quantitative focus; Deichmann assembled a good deal of data about appointments, research achievements, and funding by careful study of the appropriate archival records.  The quantitative data is complemented by careful analysis of the scientific work done during this period and review of other writings of many of the involved scientists.  Deichmann set out to answer a series of important questions.  What was the impact the purge of Jews and leftist scientists on German biology.  What happened to those purged?  Did the purges affect the type or quality of work done in Germany?  Did the Nazi regime hinder research, as was often claimed after the war?  To what extent did the remaining biologists collaborate with the Nazi regime?  What was the long term effect of the Nazi regime on German biology?<br />Deichmann shows that the purges affected a significant but not huge number of German biologists.  Approximately 14% of the individuals she identifies as academic biologists were forced out of their positions.  This is not a large number but Deichmann shows as well that the purged included a disproportionate number of very talented scientists, including some individuals who were world leaders and others, like the late Viktor Hamberger, who would become world leaders.  Deichmann is careful to discuss the shortcomings of her methods of enumeration.  She doesn't include biochemists, since they were apparently usually in chemistry faculties nor does she include other types of scientists, like chemists or physicists who later migrated into biology.  Consequently, her assessment underestimates the long term effect of the purge of Jews and other undesirables.  Deichmann shows as well that the purge was accompanied by little protest and a good deal of rather nasty careerism on the part of those who were not purged.  Many of those purged were able to establish themselves abroad and had productive careers but many did not, resulting in the premature curtailment of important scientific careers.  The type of work done in Germany remained largely unchanged, with many important scientists continuing to work in their chosen fields.  A small number of fields, like experimental embryology, came to halt, but most areas continued on.  Funding for biology research rose significantly during the Nazi period.  While Hitler was personally hostile towards science, many important members of the Nazi hierarchy were enthusiastic about science, including biology.  Deichmann provides a series of excellent summaries of work done during the Nazi period.  She shows also how quite a few biologists were enmeshed in some of the most horrible aspects of the Nazi regime.  Deichmann devotes considerable effort to discussing the effects of the Nazi period on the post-war performance of German biology.  In particular, why didn't German biologists contribute to the genesis of molecular biology?  This issue is discussed also by Muller-Hill in a preface to the main text.  Deichmann and Muller-Hill suggest that the answer is multifactorial including the effects of the devastated German economy, the loss of talented exiled scientists, and especially the intellectual isolation of German biologists after the war.  I can't disagree strongly with this analysis though I suspect that Deichmann and Muller-Hill underestimate the effects of the physical impact of the war.  During the 1950s, while Germany was rebuilding itself from wasteland, American Universities were beginning the enormous expansion that would lead to the creation of the largest research establishment in human history.<br />This book is written clearly though there are probably some minor translation errors.<br />Recommended strongly.shment in human history.  <BR>This book is written clearly though there are probably some minor translation errors.  <BR>Recommended strongly.	2002-07-24
1466899:US	50676891	R2WSZPEY94MR4I	0441009425	824019804	Revelation Space	Books	2	9	13	N	N	Overwrought	The base of this novel is the Fermi paradox.  The Universe is ancient and there are huge number of star systems in the galaxy.  Even if intelligent life is a rare event, you'd predict significant occurrence of intelligent life.  Even without faster than light travel, a star faring species could cover a lot of the galaxy in a few thousand years.  Why, then, haven't we contacted or been contacted by extraterrestrials?  Enrico Fermi pointed out this paradox several decades ago.  In this book, the answer is that intelligent life was common shortly after the evolution of the galaxy and led to considerable conflict.  A result was the genesis of machine/computer intelligences devoted to exterminating organic life.  Knowledgeable readers will recognize this idea as a variant of Fred Saberhagen's Berserker series of stories.  Reynolds presents a very complex plot with a large caste of characters to develop this idea.  Included are a lot of what have become the standard props of so-called hard science fiction; cyborgs, nano-technology, artificial intelligence, etc.  The result is a very thick and densely plotted book.  Character development is not very good and this plot is often hard to follow.  Reynolds shows considerable imagination but not much skill as a writer.	2002-07-22
1467248:US	50676891	R2YL612TPUXWT3	0394708652	387799711	The Origins of American Politics	Books	5	43	44	N	N	Lucid Overview	This brief book is the text of 3 lectures delivered by Bailyn in the late 1960s.  The title is a little misleading, as it may lead readers to expect a description of the origins of our present political system.  The book is actually concerned with how pre-Revolutionary politics generated the Revolution.  Because of the format, Bailyn produced 3 concise  analyses of key issues leading up to the American Revolution.  The first lecture is essentially a summary of his superb &quot;The Ideological Origins of the American Revolution&quot;, describing the ideology of the Revolutionaries.  The second lecture is a structural analysis of politics in the colonies demonstrating their common elements and causes of political turbulence in the colonies.  The third lecture shows how the combination of this particular ideology, the unstable structure of colonial politics/governence, and the specific series of events in the mid-18th century set the stage for the revolution.<br />In lecture one, Bailyn describes the basic ideology of the Revolutionaries.  The main element of this ideology was a set of political concepts inherited from the 17th century as transmitted and interpreted by 18th dissenting political theorists.  This description is solid and very interesting but pales by comparison with the brilliant scholarship and analysis of Bailyn's book on this subject. In the second lecture, Bailyn provides an interesting structural analysis of why colonial politics were perpetually unstable.  In all colonies, the formal structure of government was supposed to reproduce the constitutional structure of Britain with the governers as royal substitutes, appointed councils as equivalents of the House of Lords, and elected bodies as the equivalents of the Commons.  What the Colonies lacked were the informal networks of deference and patronage that guaranteed stability in Britain.  The broad franchise and lack of a native aristocracy made it impossible to reproduce the British model.  Bailyn shows in the third lecture how British attempts to impose their will, an set of expectations based on the British experience, were resisted by the colonists.  These conflicts were then interpreted as fundamental constitutional assaults because the prevailing ideology in the Colonies was the oppositional idea propagated by critics of the British state.<br />This brief and clearly written book provides an excellent scheme for understanding the genesis of the Revolution.shows in the third lecture how British attempts to impose their will, an set of expectations based on the British experience, were resisted by the colonists.  These conflicts were then interpreted as fundamental constitutional assaults because the prevailing ideology in the Colonies was the oppositional idea propagated by critics of the British state.  <BR>This brief and clearly written book provides an excellent scheme for understanding the genesis of the Revolution.	2002-07-22
1470517:US	50676891	R2E0JLTUSG9QBQ	0670892920	665614535	Treason by the Book	Books	3	14	20	N	N	Lacks Analysis	This is a solid book by a renowned China scholar.  The author, Jonathan Spence, has written a number of books in which he focuses on one individual or episode of Chinese history to explore some important aspect of the Chinese past.  Spence is an excellent writer and scholar who excels at weaving primary sources into a coherent narrative.  In this book, Spence details the story of an obscure provincial who attempted to arouse resistance against the ruling Qing Emperor.  This incredibly naive attempt is immediately crushed and the ensuing investigation is directed largely by the Emperor himself. Spence uses this story to implicitly portray several important aspects of the Qing state.  Among these are the impressive reach and organization of the Ching bureaucracy, the tremendous involvement of the Emperor at the center of the Qing state, the insecurity felt by the Qing because of their non-Chinese origin, and the consequences of poorly defined succession for the Imperial throne.  Other important aspects of Chinese society revealed by this story are the resentments felt by provincials unable to succeed in the Imperial examination system and the over-arching importance of Confucian ideology.  This is an effective and very readable way of presenting historical information.<br />This vignette approach, however, has significant drawbacks.  Spence makes all his points implicitly and there is no explicit analysis of the importance of the phenomena exposed by the story.  For example, does this story tell us something about the Qing state in general (probably yes) or does the way events unfolded have more to do with the personality of the Yongzheng emperor?  Both are relevant but Spence never provides the broad perspective needed to address this question.  To be a first rate book, Spence would have to provide additional information about the nature of the Qing state, the nature and consequences of dissent, and how other emperors handled these questions.  As shown in some of his other books, Spence is certainly capable of broader analysis.s other books, Spence is certainly capable of broader analysis.	2002-07-18
1473785:US	50676891	RJ3ARTL5HZ9F2	1559705701	213556383	The Chalon Heads: A Kathy and Brock Mystery	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Solid Procedural	This is a solid police procedural.  The latest installment in a series that is popular abroad, this book features two detectives with contrasting personalities and backgrounds.  Maitland is a competent writer who has been gradually developing and enlarging the principal characters in the series.  The character development and close attention to detail place this book above the usual run of procedurals.  The plot, however, is somewhat contrived albeit clever.  A solid though nor really exciting read.	2002-07-16
1486605:US	50676891	R3SKKIF6RF8MWC	0140291156	193225260	Viking Age Iceland	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Excellent Companion to the Icelandic Sagas	This is an excellent book about the society that produced the great Icelandic Sagas.  This is not a narrative history but an effort to describe the essential features of Icelandic life.  While the period covered spans centuries, there is strong continuity in Icelandic culture during this time and the basic features of Icelandic culture were largely unchanged from the settling of the island to the establishment of Norweigian royal domination.  Written by a leading scholar of Icelandic literature and history, this volume describes the material basis for Icelandic life, provides a good deal of information about the ecologic impact of the settlers, and provides an outline of the major historical events in the period from the settling of Iceland to the beginning of Norweigian lordship.  The center of the book, however, is a detailed and lucid discussion of the unique political and legal structure of Iceland.  Iceland was settled by Norse fleeing the emerging powers of monarchs in mainland Scandinavia.  The near subsistence nature of Iceland's economy required dispersion of people across all the viable portions of the island and the absence of useful cash crops and other sources of exports prevented concentrations of power. Iceland had no central government, no towns, and a legal system based on relative equality.  Iceland was not a feudal state, there were no overlords, and even after the conversion to Christianity, the Church had little power.  Governence and justice were essentially private matters, worked out by individuals either informally or through a sophisticated legal system that ostensibly was based on equality.  The key figures in this system were chiefs who commanded authority by virtue of family and political ties, legal skill, wealth, and charisma.  These positions were not hereditary and were based partly on ability to command allegience of smaller farmers.  Failure of chiefs to lead well could lead to desertion by followers.  Excessive success by Chiefs in amassing power could lead to local violent reactions and the antagonism of other chiefs, preventing the emergence of regional leaders who could have become overlords.  This system for centuries maintained a relatively egalitarian society very distinct from feudal mainland Europe.  Byock does an excellent job of describing this society and tracing its ecological and historic roots.  Byock provides also a very interesting and cogent analysis of feuds, which appear as central elements in many Sagas.  While most commentators and readers are often impressed at the violence in the feuds, Byock points out the many ways in which feuding was channeled into non-violent ways of resolving disputes.  In Byock's analysis, the manipulation of feuds is a cardinal example of the ways in which the highly individualistic and competitive Icelanders prevented serious damage to the social fabric.  For Byock, the overarching theme of Icelandic culture during this period is the channeling of individual passions and resentments into non-destructive results, a remarkable goal in a society without formal government in our sense and entirely private means of seeking justice for grievances and disputes.  It may also be this unique feature that gives the Sagas their great appeal.  Byock uses effectively many quotations from different Sagas to illustrate his points.  In so doing, he shows how the Sagas exemplify the cultural focus of Icelandic society.<br />It is surprising that a group of stories devoted largely to personal and legal conflicts among a group of Medieval farmers continue to command a large audience. The skilful composition of the best Sagas explains some of their appeal but other forms of Medieval literature do not attract this many readers.  The underlying theme of conflict between individual impulses and social cohesion is tremendously appealing to modern readers.<br />This book contains a number of excellent additional features including good maps illustrating the locations of the major Sagas and other important aspects of Icelandic life.e major Sagas and other important aspects of Icelandic life.	2002-07-05
1509765:US	50676891	RK9EP42JSZQ6H	0380633132	677758129	We	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Earliest and Most Original Dystopia	We is the first real dystopian novel.  Inspired by Zamyatin's experience with the early Soviet state, We is an anticipation and allegory of what the Soviet Union would become under Stalin.  We is distinguished from better known english language dystopias like 1984 and Brave New World not only by its originality but by the poetic quality of the writing.  In Zamyatin's hands, what could be mechanical allegorical items, such as citizens living in glass houses, become striking images.  A surprising source of this poetic imagery is Zamyatin's reliance on scientific terminology.  For example, the space ship Integral, a symbol of the state's need to project and extend its power is so named because it embodies the incorporation (integration) of individual actions into collective action.  In the state described by Zamyatin, dreams are suppressed, individuality is crushed, and service to the state and its leader is the highest goal.  Still, the crushing burden of totalitarianism is unable to destroy the power of human passion.  This is a better book than either 1984 or Brave New World.  A superb and unusual book.	2002-06-14
1511380:US	50676891	R129B3D900C7Y1	0226020452	321521668	The Bridge on the Drina (Phoenix Fiction)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Very Good Elegiac Novel	The Bridge on the Drina is a historical novel detailing life in a Bosnian town from the height of the Ottoman empire to the First World War.  The central image and metaphor is the town's bridge, a lovely structure built by a Grand Vizer who was born in the river valley crossed by the bridge.  Divac uses the bridge to symbolize the multi-ethnic and multi-religous nature of Bosnian society as it developed under the Ottomans and later under the Austro-Hungarian Empire.  Events taking place on and around the bridge trace the history of Bosnia, its increasing contact with the western industrial world, and the destruction of traditional Bosnian society in the First World War, an event that results in the destruction of the bridge.  The plan of the book is a series of related tales centered on the bridge.  The quality of writing is excellent, the stories are invariably interesting and unsentimental. The series of civil wars that followed the breakup of Yugoslavia have given this book an almost prophetic quality and particular poignancy.	2002-06-12
1521160:US	50676891	R6CFB0D6DVO74	0060298863	900162782	The Homeward Bounders	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Unusual Fantasy Novel	This is one of Diana Wynne Jones' better books.  Written for a young adult audience, this is a well written combination parallel worlds story and coming of age novel.  The protagonist is a 12 to 13 year old boy born in late 19th century London.  By an unfortunate misadventure, he is condemned to shuttle among the parallel worlds of a universe in which each world is controlled by a game played by unimaginably ancient and malignant god-like beings.  The book incorporates a number of relevant myths, including the Flying Dutchman story, the Wandering Jew story, and the Prometheus myth.  The book takes on the quality of a quest story with the hero assembling a group of companions to overcome their foes.  This book does not have a saccharine ending and highlights the value of self-sacrifice.  Like all of Wynne Jones best books, this book is a real departure from conventional fantasy novels.	2002-06-04
1532529:US	50676891	R354DYI7LBLDH	0198208774	993547035	1: The First World War: Volume I: To Arms (First World War (Oxford Hardcover))	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Outstanding	This is the first volume of what will be the standard history of WWI.  The depth and breadth of scholarship is tremendous.  Strachan has mastered the extensive literature in English, German, and French supplemented by appropriate reading of work in other languages.  Strachan's essential point is to demonstrate that WWI was indeed a world war involving virtually the whole globe.  His perspective is the result of a determined effort to avoid the excessive concentration on the Western Front found in most of the English language and French literature.  In this volume, for example, Strachan devotes considerable effort to describing and analyzing the war in sub-saharan Africa.  The topic is treated usually as a minor sideshow.  Strachan makes the essential point that the labor demands of these campaigns were enormous and affected a large percentage of the population of Africa, justifying easily his extensive treatment of this topic.  The book is organized into a hybrid chronological/thematic scheme.  Chronological presentation of the prologue to the war and the events of 1914 in Western and Eastern Europe is alternated with thematic presentation of topics like the war in the North Sea, financing of the war, and industrial mobilization for war.  The method of organization works well.  Strachan is a good writer and this thick book proceeds smoothly.  I agree with other reviewers that the maps are inadequate.  I wish also that the bibliography was annotated. Regardless, this book is and its successors will be remarkable works of scholarship.	2002-05-24
1556501:US	50676891	R1BQEXGQH09R2U	0750695013	647581244	Ethical Issues in Neurology, 1e	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Indispensable for Practicing Neurologists	This excellent book is a combination primer on medical ethics and specific treatment of a number of issues encountered in neurologic practice.  The first 5 chapters of the book are an overview of medical ethics that is conventional, very well organized, and written clearly.  This section is an excellent sumaary that can be read by virtually all physicians.  The next 4 chapters cover issues related to death and dying, again, these chapters can be read profitably by all physicians and are of excellent quality.  The remainder of the book is devoted to a series of chapters that probably concern neurologists more than most other physicians, brain death, persistent vegetative states, states of profound paralysis with preserved cognition.  These chapters are also excellent.<br />This book is informed by Bernat's dual training in moral philosophy and the fact that he is an active clinician.  His approach exemplifies an effort to bring theoretical moral concerns to bear on real clinical problems.  All chapters are written clearly and have extensive, recently updated bibliographies.  The issues discussed in this book are the concrete practical problems we encounter often as physicians.  Bernat's approach is thoughtful and fair, even when discussing controversial issues such as assisted suicide.<br />I recommend this book strongly to all neurologists.  This is a volume that you should own.  Other physicians will find this book useful as a reference source on the specific neurologic topics and the introductory chapters are an excellent general introduction to medical ethics.	2002-05-03
1578772:US	50676891	R1BDHX25W13IJY	1565846117	259733673	Sidetracked: A Kurt Wallander Mystery (Kurt Wallander Mysteries)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Very Good Police Procedural	Older readers will recall the fine series of police procedurals featuring the Swedish policeman Martin Beck.  These books, by the Swedish writers Wahloo and Sjowall, were nice combinations of crime fiction and social commentary.  The Kurt Wallender series by Henning Mankell is a worthy successor to the Martin Beck books.  The stories are well plotted with good characterization and an interesting central character.  As with the Martin Beck books, an underlying theme is the reality of Swedish life as opposed to the goals of socialism.	2002-04-15
1589171:US	50676891	R2BA9CPD5D9J7Y	0684848708	512931397	What Kind of Nation: Thomas Jefferson, John Marshall, and the Epic Struggle to Create a United States	Books	3	64	74	N	N	Solid But Not Deep	This book is written for a broad audience and aimed at exploring one of the oldest and most persistent problems in American history; the proper role of the Federal Government.  Simon frames this book as a conflict between Jefferson, representing those who supported a weaker central government and emphasized the importance of individual states, and John Marshall, the great Chief Justice who led the Supreme Court to establish its critical role as arbiter of constitutional questions.  The Marshall court's work strengthened the importance not only of the Supreme Court but of the Federal Government in general.  This is not a new story, indeed, most of what Simon describes is the standard understanding of this period of our history. Simon is a good writer who describes the politics and legal issues quite well.  His description and analysis of the behavior of the Marshall court is shrewd, emphasizing Marshall's careful attention to both politics and crucial legal issues.  For example, it is clear that Marshall worked very hard to maintain unanimity among the justices, even for difficult decisions.  Similarly, many of his important decisions were crafted to simultaneously achieve the goal of establishing his brand of moderate Federalism while avoiding inflammatory political consequences.  Readers will finish this book with an increased appreciation for Marshall's considerable intellect and remarkable political skills. Beyond this, the book is disappointing in terms of explaining the wellsprings of these conflicts and important aspects of the debate.  I think the emphasis on the rivalry between Jefferson and Marshall, which Simon probably chose as a framing device, actually tends to limit understanding of the nature of this conflict.  While I respect Simon's desire to produce a relatively concise and accessible book, some aspects deserve enlargement.  For example, Jefferson found the Court's tendency to rely on Common Law traditions irksome, believing the Court should have been more deferential to the wished of state legislatures.  Does this represent a conflict between individuals like Jefferson whose primary intellectual influences came from the British Enlightenment versus a legal culture that grew up in the shadow of the great British Common Law theorists?  To what extent did individual experience of the Revolution influence subsequent political positions?  Jefferson spent the war as governor of Virginia or abroad.  Marshall, in contrast, was an officer in the Continental Army and experienced in very concrete ways the inadequacies of the confederation government that preceded the establishment of our present constitution. This book is a good point of departure for individuals unfamiliar with this period of our history but further reading will be needed for anyone who really wishes to understand our early history.  I recommend the The Age of Federalism by Elkins and McKitrick, a superb treatment of the Federalist period, as a starting point.een more deferential to the wished of state legislatures.  Does this represent a conflict between individuals like Jefferson whose primary intellectual influences came from the British Enlightenment versus a legal culture that grew up in the shadow of the great British Common Law theorists?  To what extent did individual experience of the Revolution influence subsequent political positions?  Jefferson spent the war as governor of Virginia or abroad.  Marshall, in contrast, was an officer in the Continental Army and experienced in very concrete ways the inadequacies of the confederation government that preceded the establishment of our present constitution. This book is a good point of departure for individuals unfamiliar with this period of our history but further reading will be needed for anyone who really wishes to understand our early history.  I recommend the The Age of Federalism by Elkins and McKitrick, a superb treatment of the Federalist period, as a starting point.	2002-04-07
1589501:US	50676891	RSGUY5RXDP0ZF	0688123023	451287545	Inventing the Middle Ages	Books	4	50	53	N	N	Entertaining Historiography	Entertaining historiography should be an oxymoron but this book is an exception.  Cantor's point of departure is the fact that historical understanding of the Middle Ages is essentially a 20th century phenomenon.  According to Cantor, and this is creditable, very little written on this topic prior to 1900 is useful.  In this book, Cantor is concerned with exposing the connections between 20th century concerns and ideas and study of Europe from the fall of the Roman Empire to the Renaissance.  This is not a systematic historiography.  Cantor reviews the lives and works of a substantial number of prominent scholars on a case by case basis and doesn't attempt to develop any general scheme or description of the evolution of scholarship in this area.  Cantor shows how the personal and ideological preoccupations of these scholars colored or directed their work.  The pioneering German students of medieval kingship, Schramm and Kantorowicz, were members of the radical right who detested the Weimar Republic.  Their longing for a charismatic leader who would restore German hegemony was reflected in their groundbreaking biographies of important German emperors.  Their wishes for a modern charismatic leader were granted, but in a form they came to regret.  Cantor does not view these scholars and the other individuals he discusses as simply imposing reflections of their contemporary preoccupations on the past.  Rather, the contemporary preoccupations often lead to important insights.  The great student of medieval monastic life, David Knowles, was himself a monk with significant personal conflicts over his vocation and strained relationships with his ecclesiastical superiors.  These conflicts appear to have equipped Knowles with a unique ability to penetrate the psychology of medieval religous life.  Implict in Cantor's descriptions is the idea that no single scholar or group of scholars is able to describe the medieval world wholly.  The existence of contemporary preoccupations, conflicts, and ideologies leads to multiple different ideas of the past,ultimately generating complementary truths.  Cantor is not a relativist and clearly believes that some approximation of historical truth is obtainable and in fact, has been obtained to some extent.<br />In terms of the fairness of Cantor's individual portraits, only someone with Cantor's knowledge of the literature and the personalities involved can really judge the accuracy of his analyses.  I have enough knowledge to make a reasonable judgement about some of his portraits.  His discussions of CS Lewis and JRR Tolkien are insightful.  His description of the remarkably competent American scholars Charles Haskins and Joseph Strayer as functioning within the Progessive tradition seems to me to be right on the mark.  On the other hand, some of the discussion of the Annalist School of French social historians is less evenhanded and at times is more of a denunciation than an analysis.  Cantor knew a fair number of these individuals and is not above indulging in gossip.  He is also a very good writer and this book reads very easily.  An additional good feature is that Cantor includes an appendix with a list of essential books about the Medieval World., conflicts, and ideologies leads to multiple different ideas of the past,ultimately generating complementary truths.  Cantor is not a relativist and clearly believes that some approximation of historical truth is obtainable and in fact, has been obtained to some extent.  <BR>In terms of the fairness of Cantor's individual portraits, only someone with Cantor's knowledge of the literature and the personalities involved can really judge the accuracy of his analyses.  I have enough knowledge to make a reasonable judgement about some of his portraits.  His discussions of CS Lewis and JRR Tolkien are insightful.  His description of the remarkably competent American scholars Charles Haskins and Joseph Strayer as functioning within the Progessive tradition seems to me to be right on the mark.  On the other hand, some of the discussion of the Annalist School of French social historians is less evenhanded and at times is more of a denunciation than an analysis.  Cantor knew a fair number of these individuals and is not above indulging in gossip.  He is also a very good writer and this book reads very easily.  An additional good feature is that Cantor includes an appendix with a list of essential books about the Medieval World.	2002-04-07
1590145:US	50676891	RFOLN0ISET4QT	0451458486	353854112	The Peshawar Lancers	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Good But Not Stirling's Best	This is the third alternative history Stirling has developed.  In The Peshawar Lancers, the key divergence from our history occurs in the late 19th century when a cometary or asteroidal impact destroys most of Europe and North America.  The resulting nuclear winter type of event causes global famine and depopulation of the Northern Hemisphere.  Great Britain is intially partially spared and the British Empire is able to reconstitute itself by moving the center of the British state to India.  The result is a hybrid European-Indian Empire spanning much of the globe.  This book is essentially an attempt to use a conventional adventure story to display this alternative world.  Stirling does a really good job of developing his alternative history.  The Anglo-Indian society is not just a mechanical articulation of colonial India but a real hybrid with a new form of English, hybrid social structure, and interesting politics.  This world, however, is more interesting than the plot Stirling develops to drive the novel forward.  The story and characters are not all that interesting though I suspect that this is partly the result of Stirling's efforts to emulate Edwardian romances.  This book is definitely worth reading for Stirling's imaginative use of his historic material but I recommend waiting for the less expensive paperback editions.	2002-04-07
1614828:US	50676891	R1DIOINK6UAR4C	0812568583	621367969	The Cassini Division (Fall Revolution)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Decent Adventure Novel	This is a reasonably entertaining book.  The plot concerns the efforts of humans, assisted by advanced technology including everyone's fad favorite, nanotechnology, to combat sentient 'post-human' entities who developed from a melding of human minds with computer technology.  This book contains a lot of entertaining ideas and suffers from MacLeod's tendency to pack a large volume of material into a relatively short book.  Plot and characterization suffer considerably as a result.	2002-03-18
1615985:US	50676891	R2LZ6V3P7ZFHW2	0520039424	575809423	War, Economy and Society, 1939-1945 (History of the World Economy in the Twentieth Century)	Books	5	34	35	N	Y	Fundamental	This excellent book is fundamental to understanding both the nature of the Second World War and its consequences.  Published over 25 years ago, it is still the basic book on this topic and a goldmine of information about WWII.  In a series of concise and well written chapters, Milward covers a series of crucial topics including the basic strategic/economic approaches of the major (and some minor) combatants, the economic consequences of the war, the ways in which the combatants adapted to the prolonged nature of the war, the effects of the war on agriculture and labor, the organization of food supplies, the economics of occupation, attempts at economic warfare, and the efforts to establish a post-war economic order.  A large number of interesting observations emerge.  For example, at the outset of the war, each combatant's economic policy is shown to be the product of the overall strategic concept of the war (or in the case of the USA and the Soviet Union, lack of a strategic concept of the war).  The British envisioned a longterm war, chose to organize a total war economy, and invested in research and development that would be very fruitful despite limited industrial capacity.  For the Germans, on the other hand, Blitzkrieg was more than a tactic.  It implies a war economy based on short, successful wars and deferring total mobilization for war.  The Japanese hoped to make the war pay with economic support from the newly established conquests in Southeast Asia and China.  As the war progessed, all the major combatants had to mobilize for total war, to greater and lesser degrees of success.  The Allied economies were the most successful, partly because of the enormous capability of the USA but also because the polticial structure of the democracies proved more capable of developing the administrative apparatus for total mobilization.  Milward is very good on how the experience of warfare altered the economies of combatants and the international economy as a whole.  Milward shows also how the experience of economic mobilization abetted the organization and powers of central governments in the democracies and fueled the expectations that a successful international economic order based on active government control could be developed.  This came to be partially true.  As is often the case in Western history, warfare has been the mechanism by which centralization and expanded government power has occurred.  Implicit in Milward's discussions are that this is true for domestic politics.  The success of central governments and central control of the economy in WWII surely had a great deal to do with the emergence of socialist governments in Britain and more activist Federal governments (of any party) after the war.Milward shows also how the experience of economic mobilization abetted the organization and powers of central governments in the democracies and fueled the expectations that a successful international economic order based on active government control could be developed.  This came to be partially true.  As is often the case in Western history, warfare has been the mechanism by which centralization and expanded government power has occurred.  Implicit in Milward's discussions are that this is true for domestic politics.  The success of central governments and central control of the economy in WWII surely had a great deal to do with the emergence of socialist governments in Britain and more activist Federal governments (of any party) after the war.	2002-03-18
1629035:US	50676891	R1QECS862MMBIN	0198207069	417437027	France: The Dark Years, 1940-1944 (Modern World)	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Excellent But Aimed at Specialists	This is a fine book on France during the Occupation period.  Until approximately 25 years ago, this period of French history was largely uninvestigated.  Starting with the pioneering work of the American historian Robert Paxton, there has been explosive growth in the literature related to the occupation period.  Not surprisingly, much of this literature has involved controversial topics such as the culpability of the Vichy regime in the Holocaust, the importance of the Resistance movements, the role of Communists in the resistance, and the exact role of DeGaulle and his supporters.  Prof. Jackson does a fine job of summarizing and analyzing this extensive literature.  He provides a nuanced analysis of the Vichy regime, presents the Resistance in a clear and evenhanded manner, and is quite enlightening on DeGaulle's role and behavior during the war.  This book was undoubtedly difficult to write.  In addition to the large literature on this subject, France during this period was divided into several units, each of which experienced the Occupation in rather different ways.  The basic distinction was between the Occupied and Vichy controlled zones but Occupied France was further subdivided into portions controlled as part of the administration of Belgium (the far Northwest), as part of Germany itself (Alsace-Lorraine), and the remainder of occupied France.  Add to this complex mixture the need to describe the complex history of the Gaullist Free French outside France.<br />The heart of Jackson's book is the analysis of Vichy and its counterpart, the Resistance.  As shown well, Vichy defies simple characterization.  It was possible, for example, to be pro-Vichy and anti-German, at least at the beginning of the regime.  Vichy benefited from the general disgust with the politics of the Third Republic and was seen by many as a potential vehicle for renewal of the French nation.  Vichy leaders deluded themselves that an accomodationist policy would result in benefits, such as a peace treaty and end of the Occupation.  As the war progressed, the Vichy regime would become increasingly collaborationist and the Vichy government participated willingly in German efforts to deport Jews to the concentration camps and in efforts to by German economic planners to acquire coerced French labor.  Jackson also does a very nice job of revealing the tangled origins and history of the Resistance and its complex relationship with the Gaullist movement.<br />Jackson is a competent though not outstanding writer.  Because of the complex nature of the subject, a strictly chronological approach is not possible and there is some cutting back and forth  among chapters.  Numerous individuals and organizations are discussed, the latter often represented by acronyms.  This book requires some concentration to keep track of all these people and organizations.  If future editions are published, a good addition would be a couple of tables listing organizations, acronyms, and important individuals.s a peace treaty and end of the Occupation.  As the war progressed, the Vichy regime would become increasingly collaborationist and the Vichy government participated willingly in German efforts to deport Jews to the concentration camps and in efforts to by German economic planners to acquire coerced French labor.  Jackson also does a very nice job of revealing the tangled origins and history of the Resistance and its complex relationship with the Gaullist movement.<br />Jackson is a competent though not outstanding writer.  Because of the complex nature of the subject, a strictly chronological approach is not possible and there is some cutting back and forth  among chapters.  Numerous individuals and organizations are discussed, the latter often represented by acronyms.  This book requires some concentration to keep track of all these people and organizations.  If future editions are published, a good addition would be a couple of tables listing organizations, acronyms, and important individuals.	2002-03-07
1637529:US	50676891	R25VU58UGPXTI8	0374199639	64824201	The Metaphysical Club : A Story of Ideas in America	Books	4	29	31	N	N	Strong Intellectual History	This well written book is a group biography of the founders of the only native school of American philosophy, pragmatism. It is simultaneously an analysis of how a group of gifted intellectuals  who inherited a relatively stable intellectual system dealt with a series of severe challenges to their received ideas.  Implicit in Menand's analysis is the that these individuals are examples of how 19th century USA dealt with the tremendous intellectual and social changes of the second half of the 19th century.  Menand describes the careers and important philosophical works of Oliver Wendell Holmes, William James, C.S. Peirce, and John Dewey.  While there were certainly significant differences in thinking among these disparate individuals, Menand identifies crucial similarities in their thinking.  All were inheritors of the pre-Civil War New England intellectual tradition that included various strains of protestantism, including Unitarianism, Transcendentalism, and moderately liberal political ideas. Menand uses the careers of these individuals to illustrate the challenges that arose to the intellectual inheritence of these men.  Menand uses Holmes to show how the bitter experience of the Civil War created lasting skepticism about the value of ideals. With William James, Menand shows the tremendous impact of Darwin's ideas on the 19th century.  With C.S. Peirce, Menand explores the impact of statistical mechanics and the erosion of deterministic Newtonian physics.  Finally, the career of Dewey is used to illustrate the challenges produced by urbanization, immigration, and industrialization.  With all these men, the end result was profound skepticism about received ideas, a tremendous suspicion about dogma, and an emphasis on methods of thinking and decision making rather than conclusions.  Menand sees this intellectual movement as implicitly part of America's transition from a predominantly rural, Protestant society to the pluralistic, urban, and modern world we have today.<br />The Metaphysical Club is well written and Menand integrates a remarkably broad swath of knowledge about 19th century America into his book.  It is hard to write a book with broad appeal that sustains a high level of scholarship but Menand has brought it off very well.<br />I do see some defects in the book.  I don't think Menand really shows how atypical the Pragmatists were in their own time.  Popular American culture remained individualistic, Protestant, and entrepeunerial in orientation.  While Menand correctly stresses the discontinuities in American life and thought after the Civil War, he doesn't remark on some very important continuities found in the lives of his protagonists.  All grew up within the orbit of New England intellectual culture.  This culture inculcated an ethos of striving and personal achievement.  At its best, this ethos stressed achievement not for the individual's sake but some form of social contribution or leadership, a legacy of New England Puritanism.  In their different ways, Holmes, James, Peirce, and Dewey all manifested these traits.y.  <BR>The Metaphysical Club is well written and Menand integrates a remarkably broad swath of knowledge about 19th century America into his book.  It is hard to write a book with broad appeal that sustains a high level of scholarship but Menand has brought it off very well.  <BR>I do see some defects in the book.  I don't think Menand really shows how atypical the Pragmatists were in their own time.  Popular American culture remained individualistic, Protestant, and entrepeunerial in orientation.  While Menand correctly stresses the discontinuities in American life and thought after the Civil War, he doesn't remark on some very important continuities found in the lives of his protagonists.  All grew up within the orbit of New England intellectual culture.  This culture inculcated an ethos of striving and personal achievement.  At its best, this ethos stressed achievement not for the individual's sake but some form of social contribution or leadership, a legacy of New England Puritanism.  In their different ways, Holmes, James, Peirce, and Dewey all manifested these traits.	2002-02-28
1657098:US	50676891	R337ZWU9AI3DEV	0802135617	438387410	The Real Inspector Hound and Other Plays	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Review Limited to The Real Inspector Hound	This relatively early play displays all the gifts that made Stoppard famous.  It is very funny, with truly witty dialogue and a extremely clever plot.  The play is full of clever literary allusions.  It is simultaneously a send up of British murder mysteries, Beckett, Pinter, and an attack on Drama critics.  As with almost all of Stoppard's work, the humor and wit is used to deal with a serious subject with some philosophical dimensions, in this case the nature of reality and the relationship between real life and art.  This is a farce with some serious dimensions.  Stoppard is able to examine these themes without sacrificing in any way the humor of the piece, which can be enjoyed simply on the basis of the very funny dialogue and action.  This play is not as rich as later works, such as Arcadia or The Invention of Love, in which the humor and philosophical interests are balanced with greater character development and humanity.  Very enjoyable.	2002-02-12
1657351:US	50676891	R25XPNS3WRVPRH	0141390581	277164848	Henry V as Warlord (Classic Military History)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Excellent Revisionism	Shakespeare's Henry V forms the basis for most people's impression of this monarch.  This remarkably effective piece of propaganda presents Henry as an inexperienced and brave young man with a number of attractive features.  In this fine book, Desmond Seward presents a realistic picture of Henry V that is quite different from the Henry in Shakespeare.  While Henry came to the throne at a young age, he was already an experienced commander and administrator.  His skills had been developed in the rather vicious politics of contemporary England and by the leading role he played in subduing rebellion in Wales.  Based on a careful reading of sources and his extensive knowledge of Medieval Europe, Seward presents Henry as an unusually capable and ruthless leader bent on consolidating royal authority in England and conquering France.  Seward's well justified analysis of Henry's motivations are based on Henry's insecurity over his claim to the throne, which had been usurped by his father.  Seward infers that the undoubtedly pious Henry regarded his attempt to conquer France as a trial by God over the issue of the legitimacy of his crown.  Henry's successes then were sanction of his efforts to conquer France and his right to occupy the throne of England.  This book provides fine narrative of Henry's life as a soldier and campaigner.  Seward's descriptions of Medieval warfare and politics are excellent.  He addresses well why a small and relatively sparsely populated country like England could do so well in combat against the French.  Seward addresses also the question of why the English presence proved to evanescent.  My only complaint with this book is that it did not cover other aspects of Henry's life.  This is not entirely fair as Seward aimed at covering Henry's life as a attempted conquerer and he achieves his aims easily.  This is not an attempt at a comprehensive biography.  Seward's intelligent treatment of these aspects of Henry's life makes me wish he had attempted a broader book.a broader book.	2002-02-12
1658893:US	50676891	R3VZNPQU23EV7F	0441009069	860060848	Chronospace	Books	2	11	13	N	N	Inadequate Potboiler	This is an effort to write a time travel novel with causal paradoxes as a prominent part of the story.  This book is an expansion of an award winning novella and the stretch marks are obvious. The quality of writing and characterization are pedestrian.  Books like this can be saved by a clever plot and application of causal paradoxes but the paradoxes are predictable and the plot is marked by the sudden appearance of super powerful aliens defending the structure of space-time.  This type of Deus ex Machina device is poor.  The author has also a rather poor grasp of 20th century history.  In this book, a key event is the destruction of the dirigible Hindenberg with the circumstances of that event influencing the survival of the Nazi regime.  This is a laughable idea and a very shaky foundation for the generation of an alternative pattern of history.	2002-02-11
1659899:US	50676891	R1DVZP217RWSN1	0472064762	200512983	The Albigensian Crusades (Ann Arbor Paperbacks)	Books	4	29	31	N	N	Concise and Informative	Strayer mastered the art of distilling complex topics into readable extended essays.  His book, On The Medieval Origins of the Modern State, is generally regarded as a minor classic and should be read by everyone with a serious interest in European history.  The Albigensian Crusades is organized well, insightful, and written well.  In this brief book, Strayer provides the appropriate theological, social, and political background, delivers a concise narrative of the Albigensian Crusades, describes the primary actors very well, and summarizes the remarkably significant consequences of what appears to be an obscure episode in Medieval history.  The Albigensian Crusades were motivated primarily by the desire of the Papacy to extinguish heresy in what we now call the South of France. Drawing on the Crusading tradition, and greed, of the northern French nobility, the papacy set in train a process that destroyed the political independence of the indigenous nobility and did eliminate eventually the Cather heretics of the region.  The unintended consequences were remarkable.  The Albigensian Crusade became the conquest of the south by the Kings of France, whose real authority had been limited to the north.  The result was the foundation for the modern boundaries of France and made the French monarchs the most powerful kings in Europe.  The Albigensian Crusade and its aftermath largely destroyed the distinctive culture of the south.  More urbanized than the north, tolerant of both Christian heretics and Jews, possessing distinctive legal codes and literary traditions, the south more resembled the nascent city-states of Italy than the feudal north.  Strayer summarizes these differences nicely by giving the region a distinctive name, Occitania, and makes the astute comment that the region was a country without a state.  To combat the heretics, the Papacy came to rely on a vigorous and ruthless Inquisition, with terrible future consequences.  Papal reliance on Crusades to accomplish European political ends became a common feature of Papal policy over the next century, creating chaos in Italy and Germany, severely undermining the prestige of the Holy See, and contributing to the disorder and uncertainty that would generate the Reformation.<br />I read an earlier edition of this book without the afterword by Carol Lansing and can't comment on it.lish European political ends became a common feature of Papal policy over the next century, creating chaos in Italy and Germany, severely undermining the prestige of the Holy See, and contributing to the disorder and uncertainty that would generate the Reformation.  <BR>I read an earlier edition of this book without the afterword by Carol Lansing and can't comment on it.	2002-02-10
1678117:US	50676891	R1QNEVU38THIX4	0140441298	777783361	Medea and Other Plays (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Disturbing View of the Irrational	Euripides is the dramatist of the irrational.  His greatest work, The Bacchae, Medea, Hippolytus, depicts a world in which irrational passions are a powerful and destructive force.  In contrast to Aeschylus, whose greatest work - The House of Atreus trilogy - describes the harnessing of irrational forces into civic fabric of the polis and rationalistic worship of the Olympian pantheon, Euripides sees the passions as uncontrollable.  Some of the gods, such as Dionysius in The Bacchae and Aphrodite in Hippolytus, appear as the personfication of destructive passions.  Many of the human figures in Euripides plays appear unable not only to face the force of these passions, but also unable to recognize the danger represented by the passions.  Euripides view is dark but powerful and his works are compelling but dispiriting.  The Penguin series of his plays includes translations by Phillip Vellacott.  Though most of these translations were produced decades ago, they retain their freshness and immediacy.  This set of inexpensive books is an excellent way to experience Euripides.	2002-01-27
1683702:US	50676891	R215HPYPAV482K	0786805692	393951124	The Wind Singer (The Wind on Fire, Book 1)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Very Good Fantasy Novel	This is the first book of a projected trilogy but stands by itself as a self-contained story.  The theme is that of the individual struggling against a socially repressive society.  The book is set in a closed, very regimented and hierarchial society.  Values repressed include creativity, individuality, and freedom of expression.  The heroes are children whose slightly unconventional family have become victims of the state.  The children leave the city to seek a historic artifact that will restore the city to a pre-regimented society.  The book is simultaneously a quest and something of a bildungsroman with the hero-children becoming more mature and capable as the plot unfolds.  The author is a very good writer and many parts of the book are quite enjoyable and imaginative.  The plot is a little forced, perhaps more complex than really needed.  While the quality of writing is very good, there are times when it lacks convincing detail.  I predict this series will improve in the later books.	2002-01-22
1684212:US	50676891	R3D2FV23FT0U9A	155970568X	69507236	The Emperor's Codes: The Breaking of Japan's Secret Ciphers	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Moderately Interesting	This is an interesting and journalistic account of Allied efforts to break Japanese codes during WWII.  There has been a great deal published about Allied, mainly British, success in deciphering German codes but little on the corresponding effort aimed at Japan.  Smith provides a broad outline of the Allied effort to attack Japanese codes.  He is especially interested in documenting the British role in this effort.  This emphasis occurs for two reasons.  First, he is especially concerned with dispeliing the notion that American cryptographers completely dominated this effort.  Second, most of his sources are British, due partly to the greater availability of relevant British and Australian sources.  The book does an adequate job of covering the major efforts in cryptography, discusses the major figures, and some of the problems inherent in this collaboration between the allies.  The American Navy appears as having a poor record of interservice and inter-Ally cooperation.  This book has some deficiencies.  It is not really detailed or systematic enough.  While Smith's emphasis on the British is understandable, I don't think there is enough material on American efforts to give a truly balanced picture.  Much of the material is presented in an anecdotal manner, punctuated with interviews of participants.  These excerpts are interesting, well chosen, and entertaining but there is not much corresponding analysis.  For example, there is enough in the book on details of cryptography to make the reader confused but not enough to make the subject readily understandable.  Smith also deals poorly with the scope of Allied efforts.  Implicit in the book is the growth of cryptography and signal intelligence from a rudimentary prewar effort to a major and very well organized enterprise.  Yet, there is no systematic accounting of the growth and organization of these complex efforts.  This subject really deserves a more systematic and detailed treatment.	2002-01-22
1684463:US	50676891	R28UW2V9IPMHLP	0679737154	674287242	Pig Earth: Book One of the Into Their Labours Trilogy	Books	4	44	45	N	N	Social History as Fiction	This book is part of trilogy - Pig Earth, In Europa, Lilac and Flag - depicting the erosion of traditional peasant culture and the incorporation of the children of the peasantry into modern urban life.  Taken together, these books comprise a kind of fictionalized sociology of modernization.  Each of these books describes a different aspect of this process.  The first book, Pig Earth, describes the traditional life of poor French peasants from the Savoy region.  Pig Earth is a series of stories and poems showing the seasonal routine of labor, the close relationship of other aspects of peasant life to seasonal labors, and relatively closed nature of these communities.  The latter is shown to have both positive and negative aspects, a combination of social solidarity and insularity.  The second book, In Europa, is a series of stories showing the penetration of modern industrial civilization into the life of the peasantry and recounts some of the costs, and benefits, of this process.  The last book, Lilac and Flag, is set in a mythical city, called Troy, which has aspects of many modern cities.  Lilac and Flag describes the life of a young couple, the descendents of poor peasants, who now live a marginal existence in the metropolis of Troy.  Overall, this is a successful set of books.  Berger is a very talented writer and this set of books gives a vivid sense of the important transition from peasant life on the land to modern industrial civilization.  Berger's attempt to depict this important social process is really admirable.  The books do vary somewhat in quality.  In Europa is probably the best, containing a number of powerful stories, with Pig Earth coming a close second.  Lilac and Flag is probably the least effective.  The style, presumably a correlate of the urban setting, is distinctly different and the plot has surreal elements.  I suspect that Lilac and Flag will strike many readers as relatively familiar and conventional where the contents of Pig Earth and In Europa are relatively novel.  If I were to read just one of these books, I would pick In Europa.<br />It is important to realize that Berger is describing the tail of a process with roots in the Renaissance and that accelerated tremendously in the 19th century.  The traditional life described in Pig Earth is actually a life that has been greatly affected by industrial civilization.  Many men in the community described by Berger participate in seasonal labor in large cities, there is compulsory primary education, and the local church has a strong influence.  Other aspects of the modern world intrude themselves.  These include military service, railroads and it is likely that farm products are produced for an international market.  In the early or even mid-19th century, a community like this would have been completely geographically isolated, illiterate, and probably would speak a language distinct from French.  There are some other fine books devoted to this topic.  Eugen Weber's excellent Peasants into Frenchman is a very interesting and readable social history of the impact of the modern world on the French peasantry.  A detailed view of French peasant life can be found in Pierre Helias The Horse of Pride, a combined ethnography and memoir about a Breton peasant community written by a scholar who was the son of Breton peasants.n Europa are relatively novel.  If I were to read just one of these books, I would pick In Europa.  <br />It is important to realize that Berger is describing the tail of a process with roots in the Renaissance and that accelerated tremendously in the 19th century.  The traditional life described in Pig Earth is actually a life that has been greatly affected by industrial civilization.  Many men in the community described by Berger participate in seasonal labor in large cities, there is compulsory primary education, and the local church has a strong influence.  Other aspects of the modern world intrude themselves.  These include military service, railroads and it is likely that farm products are produced for an international market.  In the early or even mid-19th century, a community like this would have been completely geographically isolated, illiterate, and probably would speak a language distinct from French.  There are some other fine books devoted to this topic.  Eugen Weber's excellent Peasants into Frenchman is a very interesting and readable social history of the impact of the modern world on the French peasantry.  A detailed view of French peasant life can be found in Pierre Helias The Horse of Pride, a combined ethnography and memoir about a Breton peasant community written by a scholar who was the son of Breton peasants.	2002-01-22
1684509:US	50676891	R3TYY27T0LXS1D	0679737162	107447310	Once in Europa: Book Two of the Into Their Labours Trilogy	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Fiction as Social History	This book is part of trilogy - Pig Earth, In Europa, Lilac and Flag - depicting the erosion of traditional peasant culture and the incorporation of the children of the peasantry into modern urban life.  Taken together, these books comprise a kind of fictionalized sociology of modernization.  Each of these books describes a different aspect of this process.  The first book, Pig Earth, describes the traditional life of poor French peasants from the Savoy region.  Pig Earth is a series of stories and poems showing the seasonal routine of labor, the close relationship of other aspects of peasant life to seasonal labors, and relatively closed nature of these communities.  The latter is shown to have both positive and negative aspects, a combination of social solidarity and insularity.  The second book, Once In Europa, is a series of stories showing the penetration of modern industrial civilization into the life of the peasantry and recounts some of the costs, and benefits, of this process.  The last book, Lilac and Flag, is set in a mythical city, called Troy, which has aspects of many modern cities.  Lilac and Flag describes the life of a young couple, the descendents of poor peasants, who now live a marginal existence in the metropolis of Troy.  Overall, this is a successful set of books.  Berger is a very talented writer and this set of books gives a vivid sense of the important transition from peasant life on the land to modern industrial civilization.  Berger's attempt to depict this important social process is really admirable.  The books do vary somewhat in quality.  In Europa is probably the best, containing a number of powerful stories, with Pig Earth coming a close second.  Lilac and Flag is probably the least effective.  The style, presumably a correlate of the urban setting, is distinctly different and the plot has surreal elements.  I suspect that Lilac and Flag will strike many readers as relatively familiar and conventional where the contents of Pig Earth and In Europa are relatively novel.  If I were to read just one of these books, I would pick Once In Europa.<br />It is important to realize that Berger is describing the tail of a process with roots in the Renaissance and that accelerated tremendously in the 19th century.  The traditional life described in Pig Earth is actually a life that has been greatly affected by industrial civilization.  Many men in the community described by Berger participate in seasonal labor in large cities, there is compulsory primary education, and the local church has a strong influence.  Other aspects of the modern world intrude themselves.  These include military service, railroads and it is likely that farm products are produced for an international market.  In the early or even mid-19th century, a community like this would have been completely geographically isolated, illiterate, and probably would speak a language distinct from French.  There are some other fine books devoted to this topic.  Eugen Weber's excellent Peasants into Frenchman is a very interesting and readable social history of the impact of the modern world on the French peasantry.  A detailed view of French peasant life can be found in Pierre Helias The Horse of Pride, a combined ethnography and memoir about a Breton peasant community written by a scholar who was the son of Breton peasants.and In Europa are relatively novel.  If I were to read just one of these books, I would pick Once In Europa.  <br />It is important to realize that Berger is describing the tail of a process with roots in the Renaissance and that accelerated tremendously in the 19th century.  The traditional life described in Pig Earth is actually a life that has been greatly affected by industrial civilization.  Many men in the community described by Berger participate in seasonal labor in large cities, there is compulsory primary education, and the local church has a strong influence.  Other aspects of the modern world intrude themselves.  These include military service, railroads and it is likely that farm products are produced for an international market.  In the early or even mid-19th century, a community like this would have been completely geographically isolated, illiterate, and probably would speak a language distinct from French.  There are some other fine books devoted to this topic.  Eugen Weber's excellent Peasants into Frenchman is a very interesting and readable social history of the impact of the modern world on the French peasantry.  A detailed view of French peasant life can be found in Pierre Helias The Horse of Pride, a combined ethnography and memoir about a Breton peasant community written by a scholar who was the son of Breton peasants.	2002-01-22
1685050:US	50676891	R8OVXLNX18YWK	0679737197	847984835	Lilac and Flag: Book Three of the Into Their Labours Trilogy	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Fiction as Social History	This book is part of trilogy - Pig Earth, In Europa, Lilac and Flag - depicting the erosion of traditional peasant culture and the incorporation of the children of the peasantry into modern urban life.  Taken together, these books comprise a kind of fictionalized sociology of modernization.  Each of these books describes a different aspect of this process.  The first book, Pig Earth, describes the traditional life of poor French peasants from the Savoy region.  Pig Earth is a series of stories and poems showing the seasonal routine of labor, the close relationship of other aspects of peasant life to seasonal labors, and relatively closed nature of these communities.  The latter is shown to have both positive and negative aspects, a combination of social solidarity and insularity.  The second book, In Europa, is a series of stories showing the penetration of modern industrial civilization into the life of the peasantry and recounts some of the costs, and benefits, of this process.  The last book, Lilac and Flag, is set in a mythical city, called Troy, which has aspects of many modern cities.  Lilac and Flag describes the life of a young couple, the descendents of poor peasants, who now live a marginal existence in the metropolis of Troy.  Overall, this is a successful set of books.  Berger is a very talented writer and this set of books gives a vivid sense of the important transition from peasant life on the land to modern industrial civilization.  Berger's attempt to depict this important social process is really admirable.  The books do vary somewhat in quality.  In Europa is probably the best, containing a number of powerful stories, with Pig Earth coming a close second.  Lilac and Flag is probably the least effective.  The style, presumably a correlate of the urban setting, is distinctly different and the plot has surreal elements.  I suspect that Lilac and Flag will strike many readers as relatively familiar and conventional where the contents of Pig Earth and In Europa are relatively novel.  If I were to read just one of these books, I would pick In Europa.<br />It is important to realize that Berger is describing the tail of a process with roots in the Renaissance and that accelerated tremendously in the 19th century.  The traditional life described in Pig Earth is actually a life that has been greatly affected by industrial civilization.  Many men in the community described by Berger participate in seasonal labor in large cities, there is compulsory primary education, and the local church has a strong influence.  Other aspects of the modern world intrude themselves.  These include military service, railroads and it is likely that farm products are produced for an international market.  In the early or even mid-19th century, a community like this would have been completely geographically isolated, illiterate, and probably would speak a language distinct from French.  There are some other fine books devoted to this topic.  Eugen Weber's excellent Peasants into Frenchman is a very interesting and readable social history of the impact of the modern world on the French peasantry.  A detailed view of French peasant life can be found in Pierre Helias The Horse of Pride, a combined ethnography and memoir about a Breton peasant community written by a scholar who was the son of Breton peasants.n Europa are relatively novel.  If I were to read just one of these books, I would pick In Europa.  <br />It is important to realize that Berger is describing the tail of a process with roots in the Renaissance and that accelerated tremendously in the 19th century.  The traditional life described in Pig Earth is actually a life that has been greatly affected by industrial civilization.  Many men in the community described by Berger participate in seasonal labor in large cities, there is compulsory primary education, and the local church has a strong influence.  Other aspects of the modern world intrude themselves.  These include military service, railroads and it is likely that farm products are produced for an international market.  In the early or even mid-19th century, a community like this would have been completely geographically isolated, illiterate, and probably would speak a language distinct from French.  There are some other fine books devoted to this topic.  Eugen Weber's excellent Peasants into Frenchman is a very interesting and readable social history of the impact of the modern world on the French peasantry.  A detailed view of French peasant life can be found in Pierre Helias The Horse of Pride, a combined ethnography and memoir about a Breton peasant community written by a scholar who was the son of Breton peasants.	2002-01-22
1703417:US	50676891	R2EVOOH2WS9CKT	0312276966	603778953	The Forger: A Novel	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Competent Thriller	This is an effort at a high quality thriller set during the Second World War.  This is a common setting and Watkins particular slant is to center the plot around French efforts to prevent the Germans from looting French artistic treasures.  The hero is a young American painter who becomes involved in forging Old Master artworks that are traded to the Germans for modernist works.  The plot and period detail are very good.  The book, while written well, lacks something that would transform it from a good thriller to a really good novel.  The characters are not cliched but not really interesting either.  The evocation of Paris during the Occupation is competent but not gripping.  This book is not as good as some of Watkins other work, such as the Story of My Disappearance or In The Blue Light of African Dreams.	2002-01-07
1707463:US	50676891	R3N1RRM5P1PMWY	0312977891	461702204	Set in Darkness: An Inspector Rebus Novel (Inspector Rebus Novels)	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Solid Police Procedural	This is a well written police procedural/hard boiled detective novel.  Part of a popular series set in Edinburgh and featuring the distinctly hard boiled Detective Inspector Rebus.  As with many novels in this genre, Rebus is flawed human being redeemed by his obsessive interest in pursuing the truth and establishing justice, features often unappreciated by his superiors.  While hardly at the level of Raymond Chandler, these books are solid examples of the genre, written well with good plotting and creditable characters.  Good entertainment reading.	2002-01-04
1708078:US	50676891	R3IERV7VB1OEUG	0674443020	734738555	The Ideological Origins of the American Revolution	Books	5	193	196	N	N	Fundamental	When published in the 1960s, this book had a revolutionary effect on our understanding of the American Revolution.  Its impact is undiminished by the passage of the last 40 years.  Bailyn's scholarship and exposition remains as exciting as it must have been at the time of initial publication.  Bailyn attempted to take a fresh look at the thinking of the individuals who made the Revolution.  His work was based on an extensive survey and analysis of the large number of political pamphlets published in the years leading up to the revolution.  His work benefited as well greatly from a number of other significant works of scholarship, such as Caroline Robbins' book on the Commonwealth tradition in 18th century thought.  More than anything else, Bailyn succeeded in determining what key terms like 'power', 'liberty', and republicanism meant to the Revolutionary generations.  In doing so, he was able to strip away anachronistic accretions from these terms and ideas and recover the actual thinking of the Revolutionaries and their opponents.<br />Bailyn's achievement is manifold.  He was able to show that dominant intellectual influence on the Revolutionaries was a compound of classical models, Common Law legal tradition, Enlightenment ideology, covenant theology, and a strong tradition of British intellectual and political dissent that had its roots in the Commonwealth period of the 17th century.  The latter tradition was especially important and acted as the binding matrix for other traditions and interpretative lens through which other received ideas were focused.  Bailyn shows how these ideas were articulated in the specifically American context and how they led inevitably to confrontation with the expanding imperial authority of Britain.  This conflict led to new expansions of the basic ideology, some of which would represent completely novel ideas.  The traditional ideas of representation and consent, constitutional basis of society, and sovereignty were overthrown and replaced to a very large extent by the concepts we still uphold.<br />The development of these new ideas and the necessity to give them practical scope would lead to what Bailyn artfully termed &quot;The Contagion of Liberty&quot;; the expansion of concepts of rights and freedom well beyond the original categories of thought received by the Revolutionary generations.  These would include attacks on slavery, the questioning of establishment of religion, speculation about democracy as a legitimate and potentially stable form of government, and an increasing emphasis on social equality generated from the realization of political equality. As Bailyn remarks, the thinking and writing on these topics provides the bridge between the world of the 18th century intellectuals and what would become the world of Madison and de Toqueville.<br />Bailyn's analysis and scholarship are superb.  The organization and quality of writing in this book are outstanding.  Just as important, Bailyn is very good at supporting his analysis with well chosen excerpts from contemporary political pamphlets.  His judicious choice of quotations not only serves to support his conclusions but gives a fine idea of the words and thoughts of the Revolutionaries and their opponents.<br />This is a fundamental book for understanding the American past.d replaced to a very large extent by the concepts we still uphold.  <br />The development of these new ideas and the necessity to give them practical scope would lead to what Bailyn artfully termed &quot;The Contagion of Liberty&quot;; the expansion of concepts of rights and freedom well beyond the original categories of thought received by the Revolutionary generations.  These would include attacks on slavery, the questioning of establishment of religion, speculation about democracy as a legitimate and potentially stable form of government, and an increasing emphasis on social equality generated from the realization of political equality. As Bailyn remarks, the thinking and writing on these topics provides the bridge between the world of the 18th century intellectuals and what would become the world of Madison and de Toqueville.<br />Bailyn's analysis and scholarship are superb.  The organization and quality of writing in this book are outstanding.  Just as important, Bailyn is very good at supporting his analysis with well chosen excerpts from contemporary political pamphlets.  His judicious choice of quotations not only serves to support his conclusions but gives a fine idea of the words and thoughts of the Revolutionaries and their opponents.  <br />This is a fundamental book for understanding the American past.	2002-01-04
1718123:US	50676891	RFWOYQXJDB7A5	0679720200	882163178	The Stranger	Books	4	2	6	N	N	Still Powerful	This novella is probably the most widely read of Camus' works. It is a case study in alienation.  The anti-hero and narrator is a man living in a moral and social vacuum.  He has essentially no meaningful connections with the world except for some transient sensual experiences.  Virtually everything that happens to him, the death of his mother, his work, his affair with an attractive woman, his murder of another young man, the prospect of execution, are received with indifference.  In The Stranger, Camus presents a universe devoid of intrinsic meaning and with no special place for humanity.  The life and plight of the anti-hero are told extremely well and this book has an impact completely out of proportion to its length.  Camus' ability to describe this state in unsentimental terms and his pursuit of this idea to its logical conclusion are powerful.  It is important to realize, however, that The Stranger presents only a part of Camus' demanding but ultimately rewarding view of life.  Related themes are explored in the less successful The Fall and the positive aspects of Camus' version of existentialism are explored in The Plague.  The anti-hero of The Stranger is the counter-example of how life can be lived properly and Camus does believe in alternative and meaningful ways of living.  I recommend reading this book in conjunction with The Plague.	2001-12-28
1718501:US	50676891	R11NOY1H57JGZR	0345440781	552837090	The Redemption of Althalus	Books	1	5	5	N	N	Dreadful	I couldn't finish this book.  The plot is silly beyond belief, the characterization as thin as the paper on which the paperback edition is printed, and the quality of writing is awful.	2001-12-27
1721788:US	50676891	R1Y1X6EQWERVTL	0375406239	679283968	The Popes Against the Jews: The Vatican's Role in the Rise of Modern Anti-Semitism	Books	4	46	72	N	N	Evenhanded and Damning	One of the most moving episodes in recent memory was the pilgrimage of Pope John Paul II to the Wailing Wall in Jerusalem.  There, he prayed for forgiveness of Christian crimes against Jews.  Despite his rigid conservatism in other respects, the Pope's sincere respect for Judaism is unquestionable and his acknowledgement of Christian anti-semitism of great importance.  Despite this important gesture, David Kertzer's book shows that the Catholic Church has not yet forthrightly confronted its past.  Drawing heavily on research in recently opened Vatican archives, Kertzer demonstrates the startling and often vicious anti-semitism exhibited consistently by the Vatican.  Throughout the 19th century and a good part of the 20th century, the Papacy and the Catholic Church were startlingly reactionary institutions, condemning almost anything - freedom of religion, freedom of speech, rationalistic thought - that smacked of the modernity.  Jews, unfortunately, came to be perceived by the Vatican (and many others) as agents of modernity and considerable threats to Catholic Christianity.  Combined with traditional, almost medieval elements of anti-semitism, the Vatican became an active proponent of virulent anti-semitism.  In the late 19th century, Catholic publications, many of them with the unofficial endorsement of the highest officials in the Vatican, including the Pope, trumpeted anti-semitism.  Many of these publications carried great influence and propagated despicable lies, including conspiracy theories about Jewish plans to control the world and the blood libel, the medieval idea that Christian blood was needed for crucial Jewish religious ceremonies.  Kertzer shows also that the Vatican gave both covert and overt support to such virulently anti-semitic political movements as the Christian Socialists in Austria.  In the 20th century, the Vatican's conservatism and fear of Marxist movements would lead to church into cozy relationships with the Fascist govenment of Italy (the first Italian government ever recognized by the Vatican), the Nazi state, and Francoist Spain.  While Church doctrine did not stigmatize Jews as racially different in the sense that Nazi pseudoscience would do, Church publications often stressed the differences between Jews and Christians, stopping just short of the biological stigmatization of Jews.  The Church's goal was conversion of Jews, not their extermination, but the Church's clear anti-semitism and influential voice was a major contributor to the widespread anti-semitism that would enable the Holocaust.  It is important to note that Kertzer's charges are not inferences or allegations.  Thanks to the honesty of Vatican officials, Kertzer and other scholars gained access to Vatican records sealed for decades.  These include papal correspondence, confidential diplomatic papers, and secret memoranda.  Kertzer's charges are documented very well and the most affecting parts of this book are quotations from primary sources.  Kertzer also supports his thesis by a careful reading of the Catholic press and the quotations from these documents are simply shocking.  This book is written for a general audience though it possesses more than sufficient scholarly rigor.  Kertzer is a clear writer and uses quotations from primary sources liberally and effectively.  This is book was written to make a point but this is no ordinary polemic; engaged but dispassionate.(the first Italian government ever recognized by the Vatican), the Nazi state, and Francoist Spain.  While Church doctrine did not stigmatize Jews as racially different in the sense that Nazi pseudoscience would do, Church publications often stressed the differences between Jews and Christians, stopping just short of the biological stigmatization of Jews.  The Church's goal was conversion of Jews, not their extermination, but the Church's clear anti-semitism and influential voice was a major contributor to the widespread anti-semitism that would enable the Holocaust.  It is important to note that Kertzer's charges are not inferences or allegations.  Thanks to the honesty of Vatican officials, Kertzer and other scholars gained access to Vatican records sealed for decades.  These include papal correspondence, confidential diplomatic papers, and secret memoranda.  Kertzer's charges are documented very well and the most affecting parts of this book are quotations from primary sources.  Kertzer also supports his thesis by a careful reading of the Catholic press and the quotations from these documents are simply shocking.  This book is written for a general audience though it possesses more than sufficient scholarly rigor.  Kertzer is a clear writer and uses quotations from primary sources liberally and effectively.  This is book was written to make a point but this is no ordinary polemic; engaged but dispassionate.	2001-12-24
1728026:US	50676891	RKWFKT2SPA1JL	0374154767	278415393	The Feast of the Goat	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Excellent; Vargas Lllosa's Best Book in Years	This is an excellent historical novel by this very talented writer.  The center of the book is the ambush and execution of the Dominican dicatator, Trujillo, in 1961.  Around this event Vargas Llosa constructs a superb reconstruction of life under Trujillo.  The book has three narrative strands. The first is the story of a Dominican emigre returning to her homeland many years after Trujillo's death and confronting her past,  The second is the last days of Trujillo himself, and the third is the story of Trujillo's killers.  The last two strands merge after Trujillo's death.  The sum of these strands is a brilliantly rendered and devastating analysis of life under Trujillo.  The latter ruled with a combination of ruthless brutality and skilful patronage.  Trujillo's rapacious family exploited the state for their own ends.  The account of the aftermath of Trujillo's death with the search for, torture of, and execution of the killers is horrifying.  The least successful part of the book is the story of the emigre woman; this plot seems almost cliche and the writing in this section is not as gripping as the other plot strands.  Despite this flaw, this is a very successful novel.  Vargas Llosa clearly aimed at a devastating indictment of dictatorial rule and achieves this end brilliantly.	2001-12-18
1733225:US	50676891	R1B0EPO74Z05Z1	0743212576	23410205	The Immaculate Deception	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Solid Entertainment	This is the latest installment of a mystery series starring the Italian detective Flavia di Stefano and her boyfriend, the art dealer/teacher Jonathan Argyll.  These books are well written mysteries with good plots, attractive characters, and an element of screwball/romantic comedy.  Pears has inverted the usual stereotypes by pairing a highly competent Italian woman with a somewhat flighty British man. Pears draws on his training as an art historian to base all the mysteries on art theft or fraud or something related to art.<br />The present book is a good addition to the series.  Pears is inventive enough not to have lost momentum and has kept the professional and personal lives of his characters evolving in a way that prevents them from becoming stale.  Good bedtime reading.	2001-12-14
1742738:US	50676891	R23ZZQLKISF8KE	0345230329	881843711	Destruction of Dresden	Books	1	34	84	N	N	Less Than It Seems	I read this book a number of years ago and was quite impressed by it.  This is the book that launched David Irving's career.  It appears to be a straightforward account of the fire bombing of Dresden and an indictment of the Allied bombing campaign against Germany.  Criticism of the latter was not, however, unique to Irving.  Quite a few people, of varying political stripes, criticized the Allied bombing attack and questioned its effectiveness.  Irving's depth of research and competent writing made this book an exceptionally powerful component of the attack on the Allied bombing campaign<br />Some recent publications, however, require reassessment of this book.  Irving's later career has been controversial, to say the least.  Interested readers should take a look at David Guttenplan's Holocaust on Trial, which describes Irving's libel suit against the historian Deborah Lipstadt and her publisher, Penguin Books.  Lipstadt had written that Irving was a Holocaust denier misusing the historical record to further an anti-semitic agenda.  The trial completely vindicated Lipstadt and in the course of the trial, many of Irving's misuses of history came to light.  Among these deceptions were his distortion of the casulty toll at Dresden, which was probably much less than he claimed.  Readers interested in this topic would also do well to consult the relevant section of Richard Overy's outstanding Why The Allies Won, which contains a excellent analysis of the crucial role played by the Allied bombing campaign in the defeat of Germany.	2001-12-07
1744900:US	50676891	R16TKG4AYPV1TC	0156899698	851537107	Thirteen Stories (Harvest Book)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good Introduction to Welty's Work	This is a representative collection of the late Eudora Welty's short stories.  While Welty wrote several novels, including the entertaining Robber Bridegroom, her reputation rests mainly on her short stories.  This collection contains many of her most famous stories and shows well the range of her writing.  Welty was an extremely skilful writer who could vary her writing style from the lyrical to the concise.  Welty's work seems to inspire dichotomous reactions; either rapture or dislike.  I find her work interesting but not compelling.  This book is an excellent means to decide whether or not you wish to invest the a significant amount of time in reading Welty.	2001-12-05
1745939:US	50676891	RGONMVJZSBALT	0066210844	226416014	The Archer's Tale (The Grail Quest, Book 1)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Sharpe plus	This is the beginning of a new series by Bernard Cornwell, author of the popular Sharpe series.  This book is set during the Hundred Years war between the English and French monarchies.  The hero is a bowman, essentially a mercenary in the service of the English King, though with a better educational background.  This is actually a better book than many of the Sharpe novels.  The background detail in greater and Cornwell makes a real attempt to display the reality of medieval warfare, as opposed to the silly romantic accretions found in most novels about this period.  Despite Cornwell's best intentions, the book does not really describe key elements of Medieval life.  Essential features such as the feudal bond as the basis for society and the penetration of religion into all aspects of life are not dealt with.	2001-12-04
1760323:US	50676891	R3GJYSAXWVFKSX	0631200053	586270122	A Guide Through the Theory of Knowledge	Books	3	12	12	N	N	Limited as a Stand Alone Book	This book is a textbook for teaching introductory epistemology.  The book is organized in a thematic manner with chapters addressing basic terminology, perception, aspects of knowledge, moral knowledge, probability, and several other topics.  This is not the usual historical sequence that would be used by most.  The chapters are written clearly but do not cohere well. The organization and structure of the book reflects its origin as a text for an introductory class.  In addition to the thematic organization, each chapter is followed by a set of questions for students.  There are brief but adequate paragraphs suggesting further reading at the end of each chapter. This book is really the armature a good teacher would use to present a basic course on this topic.  With additional assigned readings, good lectures, and appropriate use of the questions, I can imagine easily that this book would be an important part of a good course.  As a stand alone book on this topic, however, this book is less successful.	2001-11-24
1760883:US	50676891	R2JLCDXW7I079Y	0393020444	932833170	The Holocaust on Trial	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Good Journalism But Not Much More	This is a solid book about the now famous Irving-Penguin Books/Lipstadt libel trial.  The well known writer and free lance historian David Irving sued Penguin Books and the historian Deborah Lipstadt for libel.  In a book published by Penguin, Lipstadt claimed that Irving was a Holocaust denier using deliberate distortions of the past to advance an anti-semitic agenda.  Irving sued for libel in the English courts, a venue where the defense has the burden of proof.  Evening out the contest was the fact that Irving acted as his own counsel, while Penguin and Lipstadt hired skilled professionals.  Penguin and Lipstadt (the latter supported by a variety of generous donors) spent hundreds of thousands of dollars defending themselves.  In addition to retaining first rate legal talent, the defense team also obtained the services of a number of first rate academic consultants and paid for extensive research into Irving's work and methods.<br />Guttenplan provides a nice description of the trial itself and the structure of this type of proceeding in England, which is quite different than the US.  He is good at describing the major protagonists and provides useful background on many of the important background issues.  He touches usefully on Holocaust historiography and the phenomenon of Holocaust denial.  I am not sure that Guttenplan is entirely fair, however, to at least one of the major figures in the trial, the historian Richard Evans.  Evans, a prominent specialist on modern Germany, though not on the Holocaust, was retained by the defense to analyze Irving's work and claims.  Evans and his students uncovered Irving's systematic deceptions and misuse of primary documents.  Guttenplan's description of Evans' testimony presents him as an unattactive and somewhat truculent figure.  I suspect that Evans was actually enraged by Irving's conduct and stuggled mightily to control himself during Irving's cross-examination.<br />I think the book is misnamed.  The title should be Irving on Trial.  Through Guttenplan's account, Irving emerges clearly as the major figure of the whole story, and the trial becomes essentially centered on his integrity, methods, and motivations.  It is technically correct that the defense had to 'prove' the existence of the Holocaust to attack Irving's outrageous claims but this has less to do with the nature of the Holocaust and its historiography than with the peculiar character of English libel law.  In any case, the defense team were able to substantiate all of Lipstadt's claims.  Irving is shown to be a devious anti-semite misusing the historical record.  Defense witnesses were able to show that Irving's disregard for the truth extended well beyond issues related directly to the Holocaust.  Irving's first and best known book, The Destruction of Dresden, generally regarded as a minor classic in the WWII literature, is shown to contain substantial misrepresentations.<br />The major defect of this book is that Guttenplan attempts to use the trial as a point of departure for refecting on a series of important issues including the perception and political use of the Holocaust, the phenomenon of Holocaust denial, and even the epistemological nature of historical investigation.  None of these relatively brief discussions are particularly satisfactory.  They are fairly superficial and seem to be additions to, as opposed to components of, the trial story.  Guttenplan wanted to produce something more than a journalistic account of the trial but the structure of a trial based book is not very suitable for these kind of digressions.  Another problem is that for Guttenplan's reflections on many of ambiguities inherent in treatments of the Holocaust to be effective, the issues in front of the court would have to be ambiguous and they were not.be Irving on Trial.  Through Guttenplan's account, Irving emerges clearly as the major figure of the whole story, and the trial becomes essentially centered on his integrity, methods, and motivations.  It is technically correct that the defense had to 'prove' the existence of the Holocaust to attack Irving's outrageous claims but this has less to do with the nature of the Holocaust and its historiography than with the peculiar character of English libel law.  In any case, the defense team were able to substantiate all of Lipstadt's claims.  Irving is shown to be a devious anti-semite misusing the historical record.  Defense witnesses were able to show that Irving's disregard for the truth extended well beyond issues related directly to the Holocaust.  Irving's first and best known book, The Destruction of Dresden, generally regarded as a minor classic in the WWII literature, is shown to contain substantial misrepresentations.  <br />The major defect of this book is that Guttenplan attempts to use the trial as a point of departure for refecting on a series of important issues including the perception and political use of the Holocaust, the phenomenon of Holocaust denial, and even the epistemological nature of historical investigation.  None of these relatively brief discussions are particularly satisfactory.  They are fairly superficial and seem to be additions to, as opposed to components of, the trial story.  Guttenplan wanted to produce something more than a journalistic account of the trial but the structure of a trial based book is not very suitable for these kind of digressions.  Another problem is that for Guttenplan's reflections on many of ambiguities inherent in treatments of the Holocaust to be effective, the issues in front of the court would have to be ambiguous and they were not.	2001-11-23
1770304:US	50676891	R6WO0Y72UAIFE	0520208234	7415558	Magnetic Mountain: Stalinism as a Civilization	Books	4	50	50	N	N	Excellent Social History	This book is about building socialism, Soviet style.  Magnitogorsk was the site of an outcrop of rich iron ore and Soviet economic planners elected to construct a whole new steel manufacturing center with accompanying city on that site.  The site lacked easy access to coal, required extensive damming of the neighboring river, was hundreds of miles off the main Russian railroad system, and was sparsely populated.  The rational approach would have been to develop an iron mine and expand the rail lines connecting to established industrial centers; a Soviet equivalent of the once important iron mines in nothern Minnesota.  In keeping with the goal of erecting a whole new industrial civilization, the new Soviet state treated the site as a physical and social tabula rasa, developing not only a whole new vertically integrated production complex but also a whole new society.  Kotkin's book is a social history of that enterprise.  Based on extensive archival research and using extensive secondary sources, Kotkin describes the social experience of building the factory/city and life within Magnitogorsk.<br />This is an excellent book.  The quality of writing and documentation is excellent.  Readers will get a vivid sense of the Soviet experience during this period of Russian history.  The underlying theme of the book is the efforts of the Soviet state to transcend capitalism and totally transform human existence.  The resulting efforts to break the social mold and develop rational modes of social organization are described well.  The Soviet emphasis on heavy industry, central planning, and subordination of the individual to social goals is demonstrated through close analysis of the system of factory construction, housing organization, and many aspects of daily life.  The remarkable brutality, inefficiency, and corruption of Soviet life are described very well.  At the same time, Kotkin is careful to point out that the Bolshevik/Soviet system enjoyed a real measure of popular support.  It brought full employment and bread to millions at a time when the Great Depression had idled factories all across Europe and North America.  The emergence of fascist states in Europe also seemed to vindicate Marxist predictions of the terminal throes of capitalism.<br />One criticism of Kotkin is that he attempts to emphasize the ways in which common people responded to the actions of the state.  To paraphrase Eugen Weber, Kotkin attempts to present common people as subjects of history rather than objects of history.  While this is a laudable attempt to avoid presenting most people as mere victims of impersonal forces, readers will be struck with how the Soviet state intruded itself into all aspects of human life.  This is not surprising as the avowed goal of the Soviets was to re-engineer human society.  A good deal of recent social history attempts to avoid the image of common people as passive victims but I feel that Kotkin has gone a little too far in this direction.<br />Kotkin is very good at demonstrating the essential nature of the Soviet state.  In a section on relationship of the Communist Party to the state proper, Kotkin summarizes the nature of the Soviet state by describing it as the equivalent of a theocracy.  Implicit in Kotkin's analysis is the concept that the Soviet state was an ideological construct offering a form of secular salvation mediated by the state.  While Kotkin doesn't use the term, a good alternative description would the phrase 'political religion.'  The latter term has been used by the historian Michael Burleigh to summarize his analysis of the Nazi state.<br />Finally, I have to address some of the prior negative reviews of this book published below.  Magnetic Mountain is not an apology for the Soviet state.  As mentioned, Kotkin is very good at showing the brutality, corruption, and inefficiency of the Soviet State.  Kotkin employs rather temperate language.  He does not describe Soviet acts as crimes or brutalities.  His careful descriptions, however, of the acts themselves and his systematic demonstration of how the Soviet state attempted to control all aspects of life are damning.  This dispassionate approach is at least as effective as more emotive accounts.  It is also unfair to characterize this book as a post-modern interpretation or as primarily an attempt to settle historiographic controversies.  While Kotkin does invoke the name of Foucault and does address important historigraphic issues, Kotkin's primary goal is to describe the social experience of this phase of Soviet history.  He succeeds completely.ies.  His careful descriptions, however, of the acts themselves and his systematic demonstration of how the Soviet state attempted to control all aspects of life are damning.  This dispassionate approach is at least as effective as more emotive accounts.  It is also unfair to characterize this book as a post-modern interpretation or as primarily an attempt to settle historiographic controversies.  While Kotkin does invoke the name of Foucault and does address important historigraphic issues, Kotkin's primary goal is to describe the social experience of this phase of Soviet history.  He succeeds completely.	2001-11-15
1800318:US	50676891	R3R3P4QBIWM6E0	0312877366	203737362	Eyes of the Calculor (Greatwinter Trilogy)	Books	4	3	10	N	N	Very Entertaining Future History	This is the final installment of McMullen's Greatwinter trilogy.  This is the most entertaining future history series I've encountered in years.  McMullen is a very good writer with a talent for creating enjoyable characters.  As with the other books, there is a sprawling, complex plot which McMullen pushes along competently.  He employs some very amusing ways of resurrecting (almost literally) characters from pervious books in the series.  It would be difficult to read this book independently from its predecessors, which is not a drawback as they are quite enjoyable as well.	2001-10-22
1801489:US	50676891	RSN4Z96TST3DG	0380979012	84144543	The Curse of Chalion	Books	3	2	9	N	N	Entertaining	This is a surprisingly good fantasy novel.  Many aspects are not original.  The plot is another retelling of the Grail legend with the wounded monarch, the corresponding cursed land, and rescue by a virtuous knight.  The quasi-Medieval setting, inspired by pre-Reconquest Spain, is also not original.  What places this novel above the average is Bujold's craftmanship.  She is a good and careful writer who creates likeable characters.  While the ideas of this book are not original, she had devoted considerable care to creating her fictional world and its inhabitants. For example, there is some medical detail in this book.  While not described perfectly, Bujold made a real effort to get the facts straight.  This kind of detail will be lost on the great majority of readers but indicates the careful way she approaches her work.	2001-10-21
1807220:US	50676891	R2ZGK33J1IZUZ6	0195143329	906578458	Principles of Biomedical Ethics, 5th edition	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Outstanding Text	This is the most recent edition of a first rate textbook on the difficult topic of medical ethics.  The authors' approach is neither to attempt to derive a set of guidelines from abstract moral theory nor to be completely empirical in the sense of simply assessing what clinicians and researchers do when dealing with moral issues.  The approach of this book is to extract a series of important principles from the best aspects of practice and then to generalize these principles.  The 4 basic principles set out by the authors are respect for autonomy, non-maleficience, beneficience, and justice.  The book is divided into a series of well written and integrated chapters covering the basic rationale for the authors' approach, each of the principles, professional-patient relations, and concluding with a set of chapters covering basic moral theories and how the authors' approach fits in with moral theory and competing approaches.<br />This book has many virtues.  The basic approach is strong and practical.  Each principle and the exposition of each principle is embedded in real clinical moral problems.  The authors make the interesting and important point that none of these principles have priority over another and that balances need to be sought between these principles.  This book is simultaneously an excellent exposition of a strong approach to medical ethics and useful reference source to clarify thinking.  The bibliography is excellent.  Some of the chapters, notably the sections on autonomy and those on justice, are outstanding.  The quality of writing is clear and the sections are distinguished by clarity of thought.  The authors set themselves objective of writing a book that would combine a high level of rigor and would be useful, reaching a mixed audience of physicians, researchers, and others concerned with medical ethics.  They have succeeded.	2001-10-17
1808117:US	50676891	RJVUX1VIPVOJ5	0312872178	126157448	Jupiter	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Pedestrian	This is a first contact novel with a religous dimension.  The protagonist is an ernest, actually bland, graduate student detailed to become a spy on a research station orbiting Jupiter.  He is supposed to be spying for religous organizations who have come to dominate the politics of most of Earth.  These groups are threatened by the discovery of new life forms within the Jovian system and immensely concerned by the possibility that intelligent life will be discovered on Jupiter itself.  This is a good foundation for a book; a possibility to explore the relationship of science and religion as well as individual dilemmas of conscience.  Instead, this is a conventional adventure story with pedestrian writing. A real lost opportunity.  Readers interested in religion and the issues raised by first contact would do well to find a copy of James Blish's A Case of Conscience.  This outstanding book, published over 40 years ago, has a similar point of departure, but is immensely superior to Jupiter.	2001-10-17
1831362:US	50676891	R3MPZP33JMYEPM	0380976528	535649961	Declare: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Solid Entertainment	This is a typical Powers production in which a supernatural reality underlies apparently mundane events.  This is a historical fantasy which draws on the mythology of The Thousand and One Nights to develop an entertaining alternative view of the Cold War.  The plot, with its incorporation of real events into the supernatural framework, is ingenious.  The quality of writing is solid.  I think this is one of Powers' better books.	2001-09-23
1837221:US	50676891	R1MZAF689RPGM2	0465097200	39953810	Anarchy, State, and Utopia	Books	3	60	101	N	Y	Interesting But Limited	This book is regarded often as the definitive defense of libertarianism. If so, then libertarianism is in trouble as this work is quite interesting but hardly provides knockout arguments in favor of libertarianism. Nozick's point of departure is a Lockean state of nature and he assumes a Lockean view of rights with accords a good deal of weight to property rights. The book is divided into 3 sections; Anarchy, State, and Utopia. In Anarchy, Nozick attacks anarchist thought and demonstrates that some form of state is necessary to safeguard rights. In the State section, he extends his argument to argue that only a minimal state is justified; a more expansive state encroaches on essential liberties. The utopia section is quite interesting and makes the fundamental point that utopia would have to be a plurality of utopias to accomodate the plurality of human conceptions of ultimate good. As is often the case, the critical aspects of this book are better than its constructive elements. Nozick provides an excellent critique of anarchism and provides some useful though not fatal criticism of individuals like John Rawls who espouse a more expansive view of the state. Many sections contain ingenious arguments though there are a fair number of diversions from the main issues.<br />Nozick's arguments, however, suffer from at least 2 fundamental flaws. His attempt to demonstrate that only a minimal state is justified is incomplete and ignores basic features of human nature.<br />1) Incompleteness - Nozick's vindication of the minimal state rests squarely on his assumption of a Lockean scheme of rights. He is clear that this is an assumption and makes no effort to defend his choice of this set of assumptions. By assuming a different conception of rights, we would arrive at a different view of the state. With more emphasis on social and/or economic equality, we would arrive at a more expansive state. In order to present a definitive argument for the libertarian state, Nozick would have to present a convincing jusification of his choice of fundamental rights. Since he does not, his argument is not convincing.<br />2)  Ignorance of Human Nature - Nozick's scheme tolerates inequalities, indeed, the minimal state is likely to generate huge inequalities. This is not hypothetical but a matter of historic fact. The closest we have ever come to such a state was Gilded Age America with its enormous class and economic differences. The temptation for the powerful to exploit their advantages is irresistable. The inevitable result is both economic and political domination by the powerful with consequent erosion of the basic rights of the less powerful. The resulting abuses of power result in political and social institutions that attack the basic rights, including property rights, of the less privileged. Further, as Tacitus wrote, &quot;it is human nature to despise those you have injured.&quot; One of the consequences of domination is the development of ideologies justifying domination. Looking again at American history for an example, we can see the development of a variety of proslavery doctrines arising in the antebellum South as illustrating this tendency. In a so-called minimal state dominated by the powerful, ideologies would arise that would attack and very likely ultimately vanquish the official doctrine of libertarianism. Nozick's scheme carries with it the seed of its own destruction.  I worked out this critique for myself, only to discover subsequently that Nozick himself arrived at similar conclusions and no longer espouses libertarianism.e to present a convincing jusification of his choice of fundamental rights. Since he does not, his argument is not convincing.<BR>2)  Ignorance of Human Nature - Nozick's scheme tolerates inequalities, indeed, the minimal state is likely to generate huge inequalities. This is not hypothetical but a matter of historic fact. The closest we have ever come to such a state was Gilded Age America with its enormous class and economic differences. The temptation for the powerful to exploit their advantages is irresistable. The inevitable result is both economic and political domination by the powerful with consequent erosion of the basic rights of the less powerful. The resulting abuses of power result in political and social institutions that attack the basic rights, including property rights, of the less privileged. Further, as Tacitus wrote, &quot;it is human nature to despise those you have injured.&quot; One of the consequences of domination is the development of ideologies justifying domination. Looking again at American history for an example, we can see the development of a variety of proslavery doctrines arising in the antebellum South as illustrating this tendency. In a so-called minimal state dominated by the powerful, ideologies would arise that would attack and very likely ultimately vanquish the official doctrine of libertarianism. Nozick's scheme carries with it the seed of its own destruction.  I worked out this critique for myself, only to discover subsequently that Nozick himself arrived at similar conclusions and no longer espouses libertarianism.	2001-09-17
1838592:US	50676891	R2O08WNOO1CDT1	0443062404	614137928	Evidence-Based Medicine: How to Practice and Teach EBM, 2e (Straus, Evidence-Based Medicine)	Books	4	36	38	N	N	Fine Primer	This well done book is partly an introduction to teaching/practicing Evidence Based Medicine (EBM)and partly an act of evangelism.  The authors are concerned not only with describing the basic methods of EBM but also with convincing readers that this is the appropriate way to practice and teach clinical medicine.  EBM and its precursor movements are based on the correct realization that physicians tend not to be very critical about clinical practice, much of which is learned by emulation.  This book builds on an existing movement and the presence of widely available online resources to tap into appropriate critical evaluations of clinical practice.  In doing so, the authors attempt to educate physicians about how to use these resources, relatively simple statistical tools that can be incorporated into application of good clinical literature to practice, and how to teach these methods.  Because the authors are academics who wish to influence medical education, there is a good deal of emphasis on educational methods.  While this may be an apparent short coming for readers who are not academics, it is actually worthwhile for all physicians because self-education is a constant part of our job. This book is very well done with some nice features.  It is small and has a durable plastic cover, designed to carried in pockets or in a medical bag, there is a small CD with good examples, and a set of plasticized flash cards on major key points.  Drawbacks are relatively minor.  More information on how to analyze clinical trials and studies would be useful but in a concise book, something has to give way.  Used  carefully, the information in this book may change your practice and teaching methods.	2001-09-16
1866058:US	50676891	R3QZYBTUXQTAHO	0151006849	645828812	The Other Wind (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 6)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Good But Not Outstanding	Relatively late in life, LeGuin has returned to the fictional universes that made her famous; the Hainish future history that is the background to her recent novel The Telling, and now a new Earthsea fantasy novel. The Other Wind is a very ambitious novel and contains some fine writing but is not of the same quality as the previous Earthsea books.<br />The story is set some years after the events in Tehanu, the previous Earthsea book, and is partially an effort to finish a plot line started in that book.  In The Other Wind, several events are threatening the foundations of Earthsea.  The barriers between the living and the dead are in danger of breaking down. The implicit truce between humans and dragons has frayed and dragons threaten the human occupied islands. The political structure of Earthsea is in flux with the consolidation of the reign of the King over the central archipelago and a formation of a new central monarchy in the Kargish archipelago.  The basis of this problem is rooted in events which date to the beginnings of Earthsea and the discovery/invention of magic.  As with the other Earthsea books, an important theme is the serious adverse consequences of using human magic to distort the natural world; an allegory of human exploitation of technology to master nature.  The scope of the book and the ambitious nature of theme are part of the reason that The Other Wind is not as satisfying as the prior Earthsea books.  The prior Earthsea books had a single central character and some type of quest in each volume.  This book has a series of equally important characters worthy of a thick 19th century novel.  The book is relatively short, which doesn't allow satisfactory development of some characters.  The plot is complex and at times seems mechanical because of the rapid and terse manner in which events unfold.  A longer, more complex book would really be necessary to do justice to the themes and characters in The Other Wind.  The quality of writing is good but uneven.  Some of it is very good, some merely good.  The concluding sections are powerful.<br />The concluding sections may feel familiar to some readers.  Part of it deals with the liberation of the dead from a form of limbo.  This is strikingly similar to events in Philip Pullman's recent book, The Amber Spyglass.  LeGuin and Pullman both deal with the relationship of man to the natural world and the ambiguous effects of science/magic.  It is interesting that both have arrived at a similar fictional solution to the problem of depicting the problems inherent in human efforts to understand and control the natural world.but uneven.  Some of it is very good, some merely good.  The concluding sections are powerful.  <br />The concluding sections may feel familiar to some readers.  Part of it deals with the liberation of the dead from a form of limbo.  This is strikingly similar to events in Philip Pullman's recent book, The Amber Spyglass.  LeGuin and Pullman both deal with the relationship of man to the natural world and the ambiguous effects of science/magic.  It is interesting that both have arrived at a similar fictional solution to the problem of depicting the problems inherent in human efforts to understand and control the natural world.	2001-08-23
1877279:US	50676891	R35VOD0WV2MNEP	0312876521	956429561	A Door Into Ocean (Elysium Cycle)	Books	3	23	28	N	N	Very Good	This is a very good science fiction novel.  The scene is a system with 2 inhabited worlds.  There is an inhabited planet and a moon around the planet which is entirely ocean.  Markedly different societies occupy these worlds.  The planet is a largely traditional human society; capitalist, patriarchial to a large extent, traditional forms of government, and physics based technology.  The inhabitants of the aqueous moon are females who reproduce via parthenogenesis, have a very egalitarian society, and rely on sophisticated biotechnology.  The book is about the clash of these two cultures.  The themes are rapacious patriarchy versus feminism, hierarchy versus egalitarianism, ecological integration versus exploitation of the natural world, and coercion versus pacifism.  This is a well written and enjoyable book.  The author does a very good job of depicting ecology of the aqueous moon.  Defects include the fact that the contrasts between the two societies are too black and white, and an overly elaborate plot with unnecessary prolongation of the book.  This book is also somewhat derivative.  There are themes and ideas drawn clearly from Ursula Le Guin's great utopian novel, The Dispossessed.  This book is still superior to most science fiction but because it has pretensions to greater value, invites harsher criticism.	2001-08-15
1894483:US	50676891	RHSSR1JOXE277	0671867423	534494015	Lincoln at Gettysburg: The Words That Remade America	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Good Analysis	In this interesting and very readable book, Garry Wills provides a close reading of Lincoln's Gettysberg Address in order to place it in proper historic context.  Wills reviews the circumstances of the occasion and the production of the speech, rebutting a number of common misconceptions.  A close analysis of the rhetorical aspects of the Address demonstrate how the Address is rooted in 19th century American interest in Greek rhetoric, the Romantic revival, and Transcendentalism.  Most important, Wills shows how the Address exemplifies Lincoln's vision of American society based on a vision of Liberty and Equality with the Declaration of Independence as the foundation document of the nation.  This view, which had a long and distinguished history in the first half of the 19th century, became the intellectual underpinnings for the attack on Slavery.  Wills may exaggerate when he says that the Address itself became a major vehicle for this transforming view of American political life.  It is more likely that the Address is one of many elements that combined to expand the conception of liberty.  On the other hand, Lincoln's immense prestige after the Civil War, which was bolstered tremendously by the power of this speech and his second Inaugural Address, acted as a guarantor of the views he advocated.	2001-08-02
1895065:US	50676891	RU9NGVYF7TMR7	0691007896	595506721	France Under Napoleon	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Good Concise Social History	This concise and clear book is a summary of French social history during the Napoleonic period.  Bergeron covers the structure of government administration under Napoleon, economic life, class structure, and elements of intellectual life.  The underlying theme is distinguishing what elements in French society changed as a result of the revolution and what elements exhibit continuity.  There is also a good and concise discussion of how the Napoleonic period set the stage for the social structure of Restoration France.	2001-08-01
1895274:US	50676891	R2LS6BJVXEZQXC	0674005112	347395149	Justice as Fairness: A Restatement	Books	5	82	85	N	N	Profound	Rawls set himself the difficult task of accomplishing for political philosophy what Kant attempted for moral philosophy; developing a systematic logical rationale for an intuitively attactive body of thought that raises this body of thought to new levels.  Kant attempted to find a rational basis for the Pietist Christian ethics that he grew up with; Rawls attempts to find a rational basis for modern democratic polities.  Both Kant and Rawls struggle not merely to rationalize existing arrangements and beliefs but to extract the best features of these intuitively attractive systems, to place these features on coherent and rational foundations, and to logically derive important new features of these systems from the described foundations.  Rawls made this project his life's work.  His output includes his magisterial 1971 book, A Theory of Justice, which set out most of the basis of his theory, the subsequent Political Liberalism, which introduced important qualifications into his scheme, and a large number of essays.  Justice as Fairness is an attempt to summarize his views at the end of his remarkably productive career.  This book is the best way available to enter Rawls's work in its final state.  Having said that, I have to acknowledge some substantial drawbacks of Justice as Fairness.  Rawls is not a gifted writer and this book derives to a large extent from lecture notes from one of his courses.  Rawls has apparently been ill in recent years and this book was not completed by him.  This is doubly unfortunate because Rawls's extended thoughts on some the issues discussed would be worth reading.  The last couple of sections of the book are relatively sketchy, reflecting his inability to flesh them out.  Since this book is an effort to abstract thousands of pages of prior writing, it is still rather dense.  Still, because of the importance of Rawls's ideas, this book is very welcome and the reading public owes a debt of gratitude to Erin Kelly, the editor of this book.<br />Rawls espouses an ingenious social contract theory, an intellectual device in which we are asked to imagine the basis for government behind a &quot;veil of ignorance&quot;.  This &quot;original position' prevents us from knowing what our position would be in the new regime or even from knowing what our native endowments (intelligence, heatlth, etc.) would be.  In this situation, Rawls proposes that we would rationally proceed to developing a society where certain civil and property rights are guaranteed and have priority, where basic institutions are constructed to permit equal opportunity and certain minimum guarantees for education, health care, and economic support.  Rawls construes his system as requiring the development of a &quot;property owning democracy&quot; in which basic institutions are constructed to prevent the development of large concentrations of wealth and political power.  Rawls' system does not ban inequality but he insists on the existence of the difference principle, a rule that structural inequalities are permitted only if they rebound in some way to the advantage of the less advantages.  An important modification of A Theory of Justice that Rawls introduced in Political Liberalism is the emphasis on pluralism and a reduction in some ways of the scope of his system.  Rawls points out that modern democracies are pluralistic and contain many who legitimately disagree about the ends of society.  Since Rawls original conception of political society can be construed as sponsoring a complete moral system (one of its attractions fo many of his followers, Rawls modified his ideas to insist that his scheme is restricted to political issues.  This is a stronger scheme in many ways because it allows Rawls to argue that by restricting the scope of his system, it actually enfranchises citizens to pursue their own diverse ideas of ultimate good.<br />Rawls' ideas have been and will be debated vigorously.  Many will object that despite his effort tonarrow the scope of his system to political ideas, it still has important aspects of a complete moral doctrine.  For example, in this book, Rawls himself points out that his system has signficant impact on the organization of family life.  The difference principle has always been controversial and will continue to be so.  Rawls himself points out one problem.  He argues that it would not greatly impair economic efficiency but this may not be true. Indeed, I suspect that a property owning democracy, even if tenable, would be less efficient than a modern capitalist welfare state and consequently such a state can arise only after the development of capitalist welfare states.  I suspect that one of the reason's Rawls wanted to produce this book is that he hoped a more accessible version of his ideas would spur the development what he regards as a more just world.o narrow the scope of his system to political ideas, it still has important aspects of a complete moral doctrine.  For example, in this book, Rawls himself points out that his system has signficant impact on the organization of family life.  The difference principle has always been controversial and will continue to be so.  Rawls himself points out one problem.  He argues that it would not greatly impair economic efficiency but this may not be true. Indeed, I suspect that a property owning democracy, even if tenable, would be less efficient than a modern capitalist welfare state and consequently such a state can arise only after the development of capitalist welfare states.  I suspect that one of the reason's Rawls wanted to produce this book is that he hoped a more accessible version of his ideas would spur the development what he regards as a more just world.	2001-08-01
1898015:US	50676891	R1EVF0JAIRV6YE	0375406514	570420963	The Right Hand of Sleep	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Ambitious and Fine First Novel	This is a very good novel about Austria in the late 1930s. The protagonist is a man returning from almost 20 years exile in the Soviet Union, a former deserter from the Imperial Austro-Hungarian Army. He returns to the small rural town where he grew up and where his mother still lives. There, he becomes caught in the Nazi seizure of power and in a romantic triangle that involves a local woman and the local Nazi leader. The treatment of the hero, his life, and his personal entanglements have strong allegorical aspects related to Austrian history in the first half of the 20th century. Accompanying these allegorical elements are sustained efforts at a complex psychological novel involving analysis of both the hero and this opponent. Finally, there is a good deal of outstanding descriptive writing describing the local countryside. This is a dense and ambitious work with a great deal to recommend it. At times, however, all the elements don't cohere. Some of the psychological elements sometimes seem unfocused. As noted above, this is the first published novel by John Wray and I look forward to reading his work in the future.	2001-07-31
1898604:US	50676891	R1S8JHQAB3J077	0195125096	852748589	The American Disease: Origins of Narcotic Control	Books	4	22	22	N	N	Basic for Understanding Drug Problems in the USA	This is the book on the history of drug policy in the USA.  Musto details the whole history of the regulation of addictive from the beginning of the 20th century to the years of the Clinton administration.  There is particular emphasis on Federal drug policy.  Musto shows well how drug policy has oscillated between relative tolerance and stringent efforts to crackdown on the use of potentially addictive drugs.  Musto is particularly good at demonstrating how apparently extrinsic factors influenced strongly Federal response to narcotic regulation.  Fears of Federal regulation by physicians, aspects of Progressive era reformist zeal, even foreign policy considerations are shown to be important influences on Federal drug policy.  While this is not a social history of drug use, Musto is careful to show how attempts at regulation were often influenced by misperceptions of the extent of drug abuse.  There are some surprising aspects to Musto's story.  Federal regulation of narcotics, backed by important Supreme Court decisions, was an early example of expansive Federal power superceding state and local regulation.  One of Musto's most interesting observations is the considerable extent to which racist fears of Chinese immigrants, Mexican migrants, and African-Americans influenced early efforts to control narcotics tightly.  Readers will find this book very informative with a strong sense of deja vu; contemporary debates about drug policy are similar in many ways to debates occurring early in the 20th century.  This fact illustrates the difficuly developing sensible and effective policies towards drugs with addictive potential.	2001-07-30
1898609:US	50676891	R5JC01720IDOL	1557100306	455820197	Wall Around Eden	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Very Good and Unconventional Science Fiction	This book is an interesting combination of pacifist-Quaker tract, coming of age novel, and post-holocaust science fiction.  The story is set in a near future after a nuclear holocaust-nuclear winter.  There are small colonies of survivors in communities maintained by enigmatic aliens, whom some survivors suspect of triggering the holocaust.  The main character is a young woman coming to maturity in a community of survivors in Pennsylvania, a community where many survivors are Quakers.  The point of the story is the necessity of pacifism and Quaker respect for life beliefs.  The characterization is convincing and the author's depiction of this future is equally convincing.  The quality of writing is very good.	2001-07-30
1898915:US	50676891	R1SMVL03XMVL0B	0674000900	736503532	Millions of Monarchs, Bunches of Beetles: How Bugs Find Strength in Numbers	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Good Natural History Book	The theme of this book is insect sociality but the author, a distinguished entomologist, does not discuss well known eusocial insects like bees and termites.  The concentration is on the lesser known aspects of social behavior in feeding, mating, predation, avoidance of predation, etc., among many insect species.  Prof. Waldbauer is a good writer who attacks his subjects with enthusiasm.  Underlying all examples in this book is the adaptive importance of even primitive social behavior.  The book is organized into a number of relatively short chapters on different aspects of insect sociality, which makes for quick reading.	2001-07-30
1908071:US	50676891	R1U1HTV3PHGBDX	014303765X	116561514	The Battle for Spain: The Spanish Civil War 1936-1939	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent and Evenhanded Overview; 4.5 Stars	This book is an extensive revision of the author's concise 1982 book on the Spanish Civil War.  The earlier version was the best short introduction to this difficult topic, notable for its evenhanded judgements and clear writing.  This version is considerably improved and significatly longer.  It incorporates important scholarship that has emerged in the last 2 decades, for example, the improved accounting of post-war executions carried out by the Franco regime and much better understanding of Soviet policy towards Spain.  Beevor accomplishes the difficult job of providing the basic narrative, appropriate coverage of the complex internal politics of both sides, and integration into the wider events of the 1930s.  The quality of writing is quite good.  The Spanish Civil War continues to be an ideologically and emotionally charged topic and Beevor's judgements are evenhanded and sensible.  Minor defects include a paucity of maps, an unannotated bibliography which is, however, much better than that published with the first edition, and the initial chapters covering the background of the war.  These initial chapters were retained from the first edition and unlike the rest of the book, don't do justice to the complexity of the topic.	2001-07-23
1921179:US	50676891	R2JS7UQ0YDFLH6	0395549701	538003042	The Samurai's Tale	Books	4	21	25	N	N	Fine Juvenile Novel	This very well written novel is set at the beginning of the period that saw the unification of Japan under the Tokugawa shogunate.  There is an excellent and unsentimental depiction of feudal life and the often horrifying warfare of that period.  Haugard is able to make his characters sympathetic without sacrificing their historical reality.  As with many fine juvenile novels, the maturation of the main character is a central element.  In this book, the concept of loyalty and the conflicts between feudal loyalty and family loyalty are important themes.  Recommended strongly for early teens.	2001-07-13
1928157:US	50676891	R2R2V1O521GCZP	0375726659	814842893	No Great Mischief: A Novel	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Beautiful	Beautiful is not a word I use often, but it is appropriate for short and moving novel.  Every word, scene, and action in No Great Mischief seems to have been selected with the utmost care and artistry.  MacLeod's themes are exile, family loyalty, and the destruction of traditional cultures by the modern world.  MacLeod writes about the descendents of Scottish emigrants who settled on Cape Breton Island in Nova Scotia, providing an unsentimental and eloquent picture of the traditional way of life of the poor fishers and farmers of that region.  Their powerful family ties, their preservation of Gaelic language and Scots traditions, and the ways in which the modern world erodes these traditions is shown through the story of one extended Cape Breton family.  Few will be able to read this book without having to pause to control strong emotions.	2001-07-08
1928525:US	50676891	R3BJQWM2J3VA2Y	0451125347	689416112	Private Lives	Books	3	1	6	N	N	Witty But Shallow	This is often regarded as Coward's best play.  Supposedly written as a vehicle for Coward and his friend, the great Gertrude Lawrence, it displays the wit and stagecraft which made Coward famous.  As a serious work, however, it is limited.  It is clear that Coward was aiming to investigate the irrational nature of love, sort of a modern day Twelfth Night.  Coward's plot and characters are not able to sustain this burden.  Even when performed by excellent actors in first rate productions, it still comes across as a skillful farce and not much more.	2001-07-08
1948104:US	50676891	R2WY5A2UBINXXO	0393311333	972450072	Passionate Sage: The Character and Legacy of John Adams	Books	4	37	40	N	N	Illuminating	The felicitously written book has done a great deal to raise John Adams' reputation among the general public.  Ellis concentrates on Adams' retirement years with chapters on his political writings, his correspondence with Jefferson, his other friendships, and his family life.  While Ellis' goal is to explore Adams' character, this book necessarily covers Adams' remarkable achievements and explains clearly Adams' contributions as a political thinker.  Adams was a complex figure; warm-hearted, sometimes vituperative, an unsystematic thinker and writer and thinker with remarkable insights.  Adams refusal to accept the somewhat facile conventions of Jeffersonian liberalism made him an anachronism but his skepticism about American exceptionalism proved prescient.  Adams was also remarkably accurate in major policy decisions.  Over and over again, he made the right choice, even when his choices were unpopular.  His pursuit of neutrality during his Presidency, for example, left him politically isolated but was undoubtedly the correct policy.  As Ellis points out, Adams' reputation among scholars has risen steadily over the last fifty years.  Today, he stands second only to Washington in the Pantheon of the Founders.  Ellis's book and the just published biography by David McCullough are boosting awareness of Adams' achievements among the general public.  An interesting corollary of this phenomenon is a corresponding fall in the reputation of Adams' political rival, intellectual antagonist, and friend; Thomas Jefferson.  To scholars, Jefferson's achievements seem less than they did a generation ago. Pauline Maier summarized this clearly when she described Jefferson not as the author of the Declaration of Independence but rather as its draftsman; emphasizing the collective production of that great document.  In the aftermath of the Civil Rights and Womens Movements, a man like Adams, who was able to treat intelligent women with relative equality, is more attractive than a probable sexual exploiter of his slaves like Jefferson.  True to his Puritan heritage, Adams felt that reputation and adulation were snares and fatal to true virtue.  His conduct towards his contemporaries tended to degrade his reputation.  It is clear also that Adams hoped, perhaps expected, that posterity would rate him highly.  As with other predictions, Adams appears correct.obable sexual exploiter of his slaves like Jefferson.  True to his Puritan heritage, Adams felt that reputation and adulation were snares and fatal to true virtue.  His conduct towards his contemporaries tended to degrade his reputation.  It is clear also that Adams hoped, perhaps expected, that posterity would rate him highly.  As with other predictions, Adams appears correct.	2001-06-23
1960639:US	50676891	R1HU41711TXNC0	0811209261	558454333	The Doctor Stories	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Insightful	This is an interesting series of short stories by the great American poet, William Carlos Williams.  Williams was actually Dr. Williams and practiced pediatrics for many years.  These stories are built around a series of clinical vignettes from medical practice in the early part of the century.  While these stories are not great literature, they are very good and  Williams is very good at descriptions of clinical phenomena.  Some of the clinical entities at the center of the stories are now rarely seen.  These stories convey the experience of medical practice in this era very well and several stories have considerable emotional power.  This book will be of interest to anyone who likes American literature but will perhaps find the most appreciative audience among physicians.	2001-06-13
1972067:US	50676891	R4N3N5TYCSIKT	0393020088	561667173	The Battle of Britain: The Myth and the Reality	Books	3	17	18	N	N	Concise, Informative, and Overpriced	This is an interesting essay by Richard Overy, the author of a number of excellent books on WWII, notably the outstanding Why the Allies Won.  In this book, Overy provides an insightful analysis of The Battle of Britain.  Overy provides a dispassionate view of the Battle of Britain, dispelling many of the common myths surrounding the Battle of Britain and also rebutting recent revisionist attempts to downgrade the importance of the Battle of Britain.  Overy places the Battle of Britain in the context of the entire war and pre-war policy choices made by the British government.<br />Potential readers should be aware that is an analytical essay, not a narrative.  This book presupposes familiarity with the history of WWII.  This book is also very short, some 135 pages with relatively large font and wide line spacing.  While very good, this brief book is not worth the retail price.  The introduction mentions that this book was prepared for Penguin books in Britain.  I suspect it was issued as a short paperback and not designed as a conventional monograph.  This pricy hardcover version is an attempt to take advantage of readers.	2001-06-05
1980277:US	50676891	R2NJ647T8RBJOS	0679602453	325978172	The Charterhouse of Parma	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	Very Interesting Dissection of Reaction	This is an unconventional novel by the very unconventional Stendhal.  Many have commented on the unusual structure of the narrative, the frequent and apparently random plot twists, and the frivolous nature of the principal character.  Stendhal reportedly dictated this novel in the period of a few weeks, presumptive evidence of mania, and the brief period of composition is an often cited explanation for the sprawling nature of the narrative.  This is only partially correct.  The structure of narrative and the twists of the plot reflect a design aimed at making a clear point.  The story begins with the broadest canvas possible, the Battle of Waterloo, and concludes with an covert and adulterous love affair and the hero's retirement to a monastery.  This progression is a metaphor for Stendhal's view of Europe in the throes of Reaction against Napoleon and the ideas of the Enlightenment.  Almost verything in this book is a description and indictment of Reaction.  The provincial Italian society depicted by Stendhal is hermetically sealed against any novel or dissenting ideas.  This is done in the interest of preserving Christian religion and the virtues of traditional society, including the rule of the aristocracy.  The consequences demonstrated by Stendhal are almost the exactly the opposite of these intentions.  Marriage is a hypocritical sham, religion exists either as a form of superstition for the masses or to provide careers for the aristocracy, politics is a cynical game of preferment and personal feuds.  The ignoble career of the hero, and lives of other main characters, are shown to be the result of the deliberate attempt to wall off the ideas of the Enlightenment.  Stendhal also takes the opportunity to ridicule the Romantic movement in a very astute manner.  The Charterhouse of Parma is long, has a plot worthy of a modern soap opera, and is written in a peculiar style.  It is also witty, tremendously shrewd, and at times hilarious.  A remarkable book.	2001-05-29
1981733:US	50676891	R35WF1ADL8LPB4	0151005672	306753329	The Telling	Books	3	11	13	N	N	A Good Book	Le Guin is a major American writer.  Two of her novels, The Dispossessed and The Left Hand of Darkness, are among the best novels written in this country in past half century.  She has written also some very good novels, like The Word for World is Forest and The Lathe of Heaven, as well several fine short stories and some outstanding children's books.  The Telling is not her best work.  It returns to the Hainish universe, a future history is which our part of the galaxy was settled millenia ago by colonists from the planet Hain.  Following an interstellar catastrophe, Hain is gradually recovering contact with the human settled worlds and incorporating them into a benign information sharing order, The Ekumen.  The Telling takes place on a recently rediscovered world, Aka.  It uses familiar themes and devices.  There is the Terran envoy discovering the complexities of a foreign world, as in the Left Hand of Darkness.  There is the catastrophic impact of aggressive Terran culture on a native society, as in The Word for World is Forest.  One of the characters was essentially abandoned as a child by his mother, similar to the hero of The Dispossessed.  For readers familar with Le Guin, this book lacks the originality of her previous works.  It lacks also the powerful writing that characterizes Le Guin's best work.  There is little in The Telling that can match the best scenes of The Dispossessed, The Left Hand of Darkness, the Earthsea books, or her best short stories.  It is not that this book lacks artistry.  For example, the heroine of this tale is a woman of Hindu descent named Sutty.  This is likely a reference to the Hindu practice of immolating widows after their husband's deaths; suttee.  Sutty has essentially been widowed by a catatrophe on Earth and then leaves everything behind her by the long relativistically sundering journey to Aka.  A metaphorical reincarnation, also a reference to Hinduism.  Despite these touches, The Telling is not Le Guin's second tier works, let alone major works such as The Dispossessed.works, let alone major works such as The Dispossessed.	2001-05-28
1982832:US	50676891	R3GWZ7UY1FRKH8	0809093251	478948214	The Third Reich: A New History	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Excellent Analysis of Nazism	The literature on the Third Reich and related phenomena is immense; there are tens of thousands of books on the Holocaust alone.  Michael Burleigh has done a superb job of distilling this complex literature and providing a clear way of understanding the phenomenon of Nazism.  Readers picking up this book should be aware that this is not, however, a conventional narrative history.  Rather, it is a series of chronologically ordered and thematically linked essays on various aspects of the Nazi state.  This book presupposes a fairly good knowledge of 20th century German and European history....<br />The central theme of the book is that the phenomenon of Nazism can be understand only as a 'political religion', an ideological movement with many of the trappings and elements of religion but oriented towards a form of salvation mediated by the state.  Inspired by the work of scholars such as Fritz Stern and the late George Mosse, Burleigh sees Nazism as an irrational millenial movement offering simple and brutal answers to complex questions.  Burleigh describes the seed bed of Nazism in the Weimar state, the Nazi seizure of power, and the ruthlessness exhibited by the Nazis as they exploited all the resources of the modern state to achieve their depraved ends.  Following his masterly description and analysis of how Nazi ideology penetrated every aspect of German life, Burleigh proceeds to describe the murderous foreign policy of the Nazis, a bid for European and world power based on their bizarre and horrifying ideas of racial conflict.  Burleigh's descriptions of life in occupied Europe, the invasion of the Soviet Europe, and the Holocaust are both precise and powerful.  Burleigh is a skilled and vivid writer.<br />Burleigh is not one of these who believe that Nazism arose from unique features of German culture nor does he regard Nazism as an aberration from the rest of German or European history.  He is very good at showing the specific, and contingent, historic events and features of recent German history that provided the opportunity for the growth of Nazism in Germany.  At the same time, his concept of Nazism as a political religion links Nazism to a broad range of political and religous phenomena that have characterized many societies.  This is a warning that phenomena like Nazism are part of the potential of all human societies.  As shown by the examples of Cambodia and Rwanda, Burleigh's conclusions are inescapbly and painfully correct.and features of recent German history that provided the opportunity for the growth of Nazism in Germany.  At the same time, his concept of Nazism as a political religion links Nazism to a broad range of political and religous phenomena that have characterized many societies.  This is a warning that phenomena like Nazism are part of the potential of all human societies.  As shown by the examples of Cambodia and Rwanda, Burleigh's conclusions are inescapbly and painfully correct.	2001-05-27
2005821:US	50676891	RPYGFKEKKGPTY	0745617697	557148837	Football: A Sociology of the Global Game	Books	1	4	12	N	N	Turgid	This is an attempt to analyze football using sociological formalism.  While written with serious intent, this book is a complete failure.  The use of stilted sociological jargon and pseudoconcepts does nothing to enhance understanding of football as a social phenomenon or to enhance enjoyment of the game.  Football might be an interesting entry point into the social life of socities that especially prize football, but this book does not say anything interesting about this aspect of sport and social life.	2001-05-09
2012082:US	50676891	R18DNJECXU6YFI	0006511295	894188613	Polish Officer	Books	4	0	5	N	Y	Really 3.5 Stars	This is an above average spy thriller but not as good as Furst's earlier books, Dark Star and Night Soldiers.  Furst is very good at depicting life in various portions of occupied Europe and is a talented writer.  The character of the protagonist is not really well developed and the plotting is somewhat repetitive.  Better than most books in this genre but hardly outstanding.	2001-05-03
2015876:US	50676891	R2BQZG3RV278ST	0151005613	645828812	Tales from Earthsea (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 5)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Good But Not Outstanding	This is a collection of stories and some supporting material about Earthsea, the fictional world developed by Le Guin in a series of previous novels.  The Earthsea novels are first rate fantasy, on a par with Tolkien and Philip Pullman's Dark Materials trilogy.  The present book is not as good.  While the quality of writing is solid, it doesn't approach Le Guin's best work.  This book is still attractive by providing interesting information about Earthsea and the stories are entertaining.  Le Guin is publishing another Earthsea novel this year and the last story in this book is an apparent bridge to the forthcoming novel.	2001-04-30
2016863:US	50676891	R1A5M8UYHBGIWX	0140443339	167010526	The Oresteia: Agamemnon; The Libation Bearers; The Eumenides	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Civic Masterpiece	Aeschylus is claimed to have written approximately 70 plays.  Of these, only seven survive. Among the survivors is this trilogy, based on the myth of the House of Atreus, and it is a masterpiece.  Most readers today probably read only the first and most famous play, Agamemnon. This is a mistake because Agamemnon, a great play in isolation, is even more impressive when viewed in the context of the trilogy as a whole.  Much has been made of the nature of these plays as psychological family dramas, and this is correct but limiting.  Reading the whole series of plays reveals Aeschylus' intention to depict an important social phenomenon, the replacement of traditional Greek religion and aristocratic society by the more humanistic ethos of the Athenian polis.  The trilogy begins with the working out of the inherited curse of the House of Atreus and its bloody consequences, and concludes with the incorporation of the embodiment of passion and traditional religion, the Furies, into the state of Athens.  Aeschylus contrasts the aristocratic ideals of revenge, unfettered passion, and primitive religion with the idea of human justice, the polis, and the more rationalistic worship of Apollo, Athena, and the Olympian Gods.  This is a superb adaptation of myth to a theme of the greatest interest to his audience, the citizens of democratic Athens.  This translation has been praised widely and contains a great deal of powerful writing.	2001-04-29
2026892:US	50676891	R137VPTMUF4YZD	0140434259	569473707	Sense and Sensibility (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Superb	Sense and Sensibility is a remarkable novel.  Ostensibly a social comedy centered on romance, this book is really an unusually acute description and analysis of the collision of Enlightenment rationalism (Sense) with the Romantic ideas of the early 19th century (Sensibility).  Austen uses the romantic entanglements of 2 sisters to present these contrasting views of life.  This is a remarkable way of showing how ideas permeate and influence the life of society as a whole.  The plotting, laden with clever irony, is brilliant, and the characters are drawn with Austen's usual insight.	2001-04-20
2033275:US	50676891	R2WMY8MS0LXITO	067973726X	881602825	A Fortunate Man: The Story of a Country Doctor	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	An Unusual and Unusually Good Book	This book is an extended essay on the work of Dr. John Sassall, a country General Practicioner (GP), in a poor area of Britain. Integrated into this book are a series of often striking photographs taken by Berger's collaborator Jean Mohr. The photos complement Berger's insightful comments on Sassall's work.  Berger and Mohr appear to have spent a good deal of time with Sassall and his patients and must have earned the trust, not only of Sassall, but of his patients.  Berger terms Sassall &quot;A Fortunate Man&quot; not because of good luck or unusual talent but because Sassall is a person whose work is directly connected with basic existential questions and meaning.  The portrait of Sassall is unsentimental, clear, and admiring.  Sassall is not just a highly competent and dedicated physician, he is a man who feels compelled to use his occupational life in a quest to explore basic questions about the nature of human relationships and community.  This need drives him to be an exceptionally good physician and to involve himself deeply in the life of his rather insular community.  While Sassall is an unusual man and physician, many aspects of his experiences in dealing with patients cast light on doctor-patient relationships in general.  As a physician, I found Berger's analysis of many of these issues insightful and useful.  Berger proceeds to larger issues of how society values life and work.  Berger's writing is unambiguous, direct, and informed by a considerable critical intelligence. The real measure of this book is that readers will find themselves drawn back to thinking about the questions that Berger raises.	2001-04-15
2039561:US	50676891	RHLWE27PWKI4S	0743215052	769417678	The Constant Gardener: A Novel	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Not His Best Work	This is an ambitious and very well intentioned novel. Unfortunately, Le Carre falls short of his best work and this book has some significant flaws.  The ambitious part of this work is an attempt to combine 2 disparate genres; a psychological novel and a socially relevant novel.  The psychological part is Le Carre's description of the obsessive quest of his protagonist to reconstruct, and really to re-experience, the last days of his beloved wife.  This portion of the book is done very well and displays Le Carre's ability to develop characters and the plot in a subtle and penetrating fashion.  The socially relevant portion is Le Carre's effort to expose the miserable medical conditions in Africa and the moral corruption of many international pharmaceutical companies.  Despite Le Carre's noble intentions, this aspect of the book is less interesting.  His presentation of this issue comes across as very black and white.  In one sense, this is legitimate, as Big Pharma has often behaved disgracefully in developing nations.  As an artistic device, this is less successful.  One of the best features of Le Carre's Smily novels was the persistent moral tension surrounding the ambiguity of his protagonist's conduct.  What is permitted in the pursuit of a good cause?  This type of tension is absent from this book and it lacks the interesting moral dimension of his best novels.  I am afraid that the plotting is a little contrived as well.  Another contrast between this book and the Smiley novels.  Still, this is a good book.  From almost any other writer of popular fiction, this book would be an unmitigated success.  Le Carre's best work, however, raises expectations that this book does not meet.	2001-04-10
2040724:US	50676891	R2T4IG49V39DUA	0674003349	920547489	The Making of Modern Japan (Belknap Press)	Books	5	32	32	N	Y	First Rate Overview	This books covers the last 400 years of Japanese history in a series of very well written and well organized chapters.  The focus on structural changes in Japanese political and social organization with briefer but insightful discussions of intellectual and economic history.  Relatively unfamiliar topics such as the emergence and articulation of the Tokugawa state, the Meiji restoration, and the complex structure of Japanese politics in the pre-WWII era are discussed with great insight.  There is an excellent annotated bibliography for each chapter.  Jansen does an excellent job of balancing the need to explain and analyze events properly with the need to produce a one volume (though pretty thick) book.  This is the book for someone looking for an introduction to Japanese history.	2001-04-08
2040868:US	50676891	R1U7EASIFB0SGL	0195074777	556023971	The Lever of Riches: Technological Creativity and Economic Progress	Books	4	22	24	N	N	Fine Overview and Critical Analysis	This very interesting but relatively brief book is devoted to the role of technological innovation in economic history.  In a series of well written and very well referenced chapters, Mokyr discusses the role of technological innovation as a motor of economic growth and social transformation.  Topics covered include a general discussion of technological innovation and growth, narrative chapters on technological innovation in the Classical world, Medieval Europe, Renaissance Europe, and the Modern world up to about 1850, discussions of why China and Classical civilization failed to develop an industrial civilization, and a discussion of the analogy between technological innovation and organic evolution.  This is a work of synthesis; Mokyr presents little novel information and draws heavily on an impressive body of existing scholarship.  Mokyr presents some interesting and important conclusions.  Technological innovation is not driven primarily by ordinary market forces.  The Industrial Revolution was the culmination in many centuries of technological innovation dating back to the Middle Ages.  The failure of China to develop an Industrial Revolution remains a persistent puzzle. By about 1400, Chinese civilization was the world leader in many key technologies but then slides back and is eventually overtaken and then explosively surpassed by Europe.  An important point made by Mokyr is that no nation or culture was a perpetual locus of technological innovation.  In Europe, innovations were most common in Italy during the Renaissance, followed by major sites in the Low Countries and Germany, followed by the British explosion.  Europe, with its divided polities, may have been more conducive to the development of industrial technology.  European intellectual and scientific traditions may also have favored the emergence of industrial technology.  Whatever factors responsible, Mokyr concludes that the emergence of industrial technology was probably an unusual and highly contingent event.  This is similar to the conclusion reached by Kenneth Pomerantz in his recent book, The Great Divergence, an explicit comparison of economic development in China, Japan, and Europe.  These conclusions and analyses completely undermine the common and facile notions of European capitalism leading automatically to the success of European culture.tingent event.  This is similar to the conclusion reached by Kenneth Pomerantz in his recent book, The Great Divergence, an explicit comparison of economic development in China, Japan, and Europe.  These conclusions and analyses completely undermine the common and facile notions of European capitalism leading automatically to the success of European culture.	2001-04-08
2042384:US	50676891	RI2RY82POXUE	0195145887	27728657	The Dred Scott Case: Its Significance in American Law and Politics	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Superb	This outstanding work of critical scholarship takes the Dred Scott case as a point of departure to examine several important issues in American history.  These include both the nature and dynamics of the great sectional conflict over slavery, and the nature of juidicial power in our system of government.  Fehrenbacher provides careful history and analysis of the Dred Scott case itself, it significance in its own time, and the possible role of this case in the history of Supreme Court power.  Fehrenbacher's reconstruction of the case and the associated political events is remarkably erudite; informed by the highest level of critical intelligence.  He dispells a number of myths related to the case and his analyses of contemporary politics and legal history are equally astute.  This book is exceptionally well written.  Even when exploring apparently obscure details of 19th century juidicial and political history, Fehrenbacher's writing is always lucid, and at times, elegant.	2001-04-07
2042464:US	50676891	R1XGZ82UWFRZJ3	0812571096	598366215	Blind Waves	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Not Really Science Fiction	This is a competently written, though hardly exceptional, mystery thriller.  This is not really science fiction but rather uses an imagined global warming future as the setting for a conventional story/romance.  This book has more in common with historical mystery novels than good science fiction.	2001-04-07
2054830:US	50676891	R11OSAL8QQH8SJ	067972074X	131773811	Emperor of China: Self-Portrait of K'ang-Hsi	Books	4	23	23	N	N	The Best of Spence's Books	This is a very interesting book by the distinguished Yale scholar Jonathan Spence.  Spence's approach is often unconventional.  He has a written several books in which an important theme of Chinese history is examined by close analysis of a single episode of Chinese history.  In this case, Spence's goal is to depict the center of the Chinese political system, the Emperor.  Spence accomplishes this goal by editing the writings of an important Qing Emperor, K'ang Hsi, into an autobiographical work.  This is daring and surprisingly successful.  Spence is careful to show both private and public aspects of K'ang Hsi.  A good deal of the success of this book must be attributable to K'ang Hsi himself.  Through Spence's careful editing, K'ang Hsi emerges as a vigorous and articulate individual who seems to have had an attractive personality.  This book is simultaneously edifying and entertaining.	2001-03-26
2074843:US	50676891	R1RZI49TS7TE2F	0804710139	959808271	Peasants into Frenchmen: The Modernization of Rural France, 1870-1914	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Outstanding Social History	This superb book traces the modernization of rural France in the last quarter of the 19th century.  The book is divided into 3 parts; descriptions of traditional rural France, analysis of the agents of change, and discussion of how changes took place.  This book is about both material changes and the parallel changes in psychology that were part of and the result of modernization in France.  The emphasis is not primarily on economic statistics but on the day to day life and psychology of rural France.  This book provides real insight into the mentality of French peasants and how this mentality was transformed from parochial self-conceptions and accompanying insular social organization to conceptions of French nationality and conscious membership in French society.  For example, in the mid-19th century, a large number of Frenchmen did not speak French but rather a variety of regional languages.  Expansion of the national economy, mandatory primary education, and other forces would eventually destroy local languages and produce a more homogenous French speaking nation.  Weber demonstrates convincingly that this process took place relatively rapidly, focused in the years between the Franco-Prussian War and WWI.  While this is a very thick and scholarly book, the quality of writing is excellent and the book is packed with entertaining and revealing anecdotal information.<br />It is clear that the process of modernization was accompanied by loss of regional cultural distinctions and languages.  This cultural homogenization is perhaps regrettable but was an inevitable part of a process that resulted also in higher standards of living, greater individual freedom, and several other benefits.  For example, Weber reminds us that in much of traditional rural France, seasonal hunger was common and famine a real possibility.  By the end of the 19th century, famine was a vague memory and seasonal hunger largely banished.  Similarly, modernization was accompanied by a fall in violence against persons, less child abuse, and weakening of overbearing patriarchial family structure.<br />This book has a couple of interesting resonances.  The period covered by this book is also the height of European Imperialism.  As Weber points out, the processes of modernization in rural France were identical to the processes of colonialization.  Indeed, the modernization of rural France in the late 19th century can been seen as the final phase of the conquest of France by the region around Paris, a process that began with the Albigensian crusade in the 13th century.  Ii is conventional today to depict European Imperialism as the result of the tremendous racism of that time.  Yet, the modernization of rural France was essentially the same process carried out against fellow Frenchmen.  This fact points out that the relationship between racism and imperialism is more complicated than commonly depicted.<br />Another interesting resonance relates to the recent tendency of French intellectuals and politicians to denounce the creeping 'Americanization' of French culture.  These individuals like to present themselves as guardians as ancient cultural traditions.  Yet, many, if not all of these traditions originate in the 19th century.  Hardly ancient, and you can argue that American traditions are at least as old.  Further, where modern French culture was to a large extent imposed by the coercive acts of the French government, 'Americanization' is the result of free consumer choice.lence against persons, less child abuse, and weakening of overbearing patriarchial family structure.<br />This book has a couple of interesting resonances.  The period covered by this book is also the height of European Imperialism.  As Weber points out, the processes of modernization in rural France were identical to the processes of colonialization.  Indeed, the modernization of rural France in the late 19th century can been seen as the final phase of the conquest of France by the region around Paris, a process that began with the Albigensian crusade in the 13th century.  Ii is conventional today to depict European Imperialism as the result of the tremendous racism of that time.  Yet, the modernization of rural France was essentially the same process carried out against fellow Frenchmen.  This fact points out that the relationship between racism and imperialism is more complicated than commonly depicted.  <br />Another interesting resonance relates to the recent tendency of French intellectuals and politicians to denounce the creeping 'Americanization' of French culture.  These individuals like to present themselves as guardians as ancient cultural traditions.  Yet, many, if not all of these traditions originate in the 19th century.  Hardly ancient, and you can argue that American traditions are at least as old.  Further, where modern French culture was to a large extent imposed by the coercive acts of the French government, 'Americanization' is the result of free consumer choice.	2001-03-09
2079622:US	50676891	RQVOGANHYI5O0	0140441417	925590424	Sentimental Education (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	The Best 19th Century Novel	This is a tremendous book.  This book combines all the best features of 19th century fiction into one package.  Insightful social observation and commentary, psychological insight, brilliant descriptive writing, and a tremendous canvas.  As with Madame Bovary, Flaubert is concerned with tracing the effects of Romantic ideals in ordinary life.  As with Madame Bovary, this phenomenon is examined by pursuing the life story of a single individual.  In a sense, this book is a complement to Madame Bovary.  Where the latter dealt with provinical life, The Sentimental Education deals with the glittering and corrupt center of France, the great metropolis of Paris.  Flaubert combined his basic aim with the goal of providing a comprehensive overview of the Second Empire.  The result is bursting with artful plotting, powerful and acute writing, and Flaubert's unique brand of irony.  A tremendous achievement.	2001-03-06
2081869:US	50676891	R2VCGOXTRNDASI	0198752164	857232898	The Moral Philosophers: An Introduction to Ethics	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Combination of Good Overview and Analysis	This is a very good and surprisingly ambitious introduction to moral philosophy.  In this concise book, Norman aims to acquaint readers with the essential features of important moral philosophers, provide a critical evaluation of these ideas, lead readers through the process of critically evaluating ideas, and sketching an outline of what would constitute an acceptable moral theory.  The last is an aim that is well beyond the confines of most textbooks and is quite interesting.  The book falls into 3 parts; the work of the Ancients - Plato and Aristotle; the now classic moderns - Hume, Kant, Mill, and Hegel (seen largely through the lens of his British disciple Bradley); and 20th century work, mainly the Anglo-American tradition.  There is a chapter on Nietsche, which serves as a reminder of other possible perspectives.  Norman's explications of the Ancients and 20th century work is particularly good.  I find the sections on Hume and Kant less satisfactory.  The quality of explanation is not as good as the other chapters.  This is the one section of the book where Norman's aims of providing a critique of ideas and outlining the characteristics of an acceptable moral theory tend to overpower the strictly explanatory aim.  This is not a major flaw.  I think Norman also makes some small but significant errors.  In his discussion of Hume's views on property, he ignores the fact that historians suggest that property had a somewhat different meaning in the 18th century, including not just possessions but also aspects of character, reputation, and even rights.  I think as well that Norman is incorrect in some of his statements about the important contemporary philosopher John Rawls.  Norman wants his readers to be actively engaged in thinking about this issues and his goal of outlining the grounds for an acceptable moral theory is a challenge to readers.  This is an unusual but effective teaching method.	2001-03-04
2114219:US	50676891	R21JQ2IPFFNUC5	0226791459	222595851	The Habsburg Monarchy, 1809-1918 : A History of the Austrian Empire and Austria-Hungary	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Still Very Good	Published in 1948, this concise book is a good overview of the Habsburg monarchy over the last century of its existence. It is written with the wit and sometimes sarcastic judgements for which Taylor was known well.  Taylor's theme is the attempt of the Empire to cope simultaneously with the internal pressures exerted by the awakening of nationalism among the subject peoples of the regime and the external pressures of dealing with the rising powers of Germany and Russia.  This is primarily a political history but draws astutely on relevant social and intellectual history.  This book can only be read by individuals with a good basic knowledge of 19th century European history.  Taylor shows that the survival of the Habsburg state was a paradoxical function of internal and external conflicts that embroiled it.  The aggressive Hungarians, for example, wished to preserve it because it provided a vehicle for their domination of other ethnic groups within the historic borders of Hungary.  Bismarck wanted to preserve the Habsburg state to avoid the diplomatic and internal political complications that would follow its dissolution.  For decades, external and internal conflicts existed in uncomfortable equipoise punctuated by recurrent conflicts that never resolved any of the basic issues. Taylor provides a sophisticated analysis of this problem and interesting characterizations of the major interest groups and political figures involved. A particularly interesting aspect of this book is the concise analysis of developing nationalism.  While this is not the main theme, Taylor provides some interesting insights into the development of nationalism in the various parts of the Habsburg state.  He shows, in particular, the dynamic quality of nationalism, its origin in most cases as Romantic intellectual movements, and its development as being tied up in many cases with the organs of the Habsburg bureaucracy.  There has been much written in recent years about the social construction of nationalism and recent events in the Balkans have given this topic a great deal of relevance.  Taylor's analysis antedates by decades the writing of scholars like Benedict Anderson, whose book Imagined Communities has been very influential, but these recent scholars would have taught Taylor nothing.  An interesting example of rediscovering the wheel.of nationalism and recent events in the Balkans have given this topic a great deal of relevance.  Taylor's analysis antedates by decades the writing of scholars like Benedict Anderson, whose book Imagined Communities has been very influential, but these recent scholars would have taught Taylor nothing.  An interesting example of rediscovering the wheel.	2001-02-05
2114540:US	50676891	R5PCO9IWU1M35	0226791459	222595851	The Habsburg Monarchy, 1809-1918 : A History of the Austrian Empire and Austria-Hungary	Books	4	41	44	N	N	Still Very Good	Published in 1948, this concise book is a good overview of the Habsburg monarchy over the last century of its existence. It is written with the wit and sometimes sarcastic judgements for which Taylor was known well.  Taylor's theme is the attempt of the Empire to cope simultaneously with the internal pressures exerted by the awakening of nationalism among the subject peoples of the regime and the external pressures of dealing with the rising powers of Germany and Russia.  This is primarily a political history but draws astutely on relevant social and intellectual history.  This book can only be read by individuals with a good basic knowledge of 19th century European history.  Taylor shows that the survival of the Habsburg state was a paradoxical function of internal and external conflicts that embroiled it.  The aggressive Hungarians, for example, wished to preserve it because it provided a vehicle for their domination of other ethnic groups within the historic borders of Hungary.  Bismarck wanted to preserve the Habsburg state to avoid the diplomatic and internal political complications that would follow its dissolution.  For decades, external and internal conflicts existed in uncomfortable equipoise punctuated by recurrent conflicts that never resolved any of the basic issues. Taylor provides a sophisticated analysis of this problem and interesting characterizations of the major interest groups and political figures involved. A particularly interesting aspect of this book is the concise analysis of developing nationalism.  While this is not the main theme, Taylor provides some interesting insights into the development of nationalism in the various parts of the Habsburg state.  He shows, in particular, the dynamic quality of nationalism, its origin in most cases as Romantic intellectual movements, and its development as being tied up in many cases with the organs of the Habsburg bureaucracy.  There has been much written in recent years about the social constructionof nationalism and recent events in the Balkans have given this topic a great deal of relevance.  Taylor's analysis antedates by decades the writing of scholars like Benedict Anderson, whose book Imagined Communities has been very influential, but these recent scholars would have taught Taylor nothing.  An interesting example of rediscovering the wheel.	2001-02-05
2114960:US	50676891	RVGAMJ0WOPJ4N	0940322552	34512891	The Glass Bees (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	3	5	18	N	N	Somewhat Interesting	This is an interesting but not very rewarding book, part satire of capitalism, part psychological novel.  The protagonist, Captain Richard, is a cashiered Army officer, a former cavalryman quite out of place in his time.  The structure of the book is the cavalryman's job interview with a visionary capitalist, the latter supposedly looking for someone willing to do his dirty work.  Most of the book is taken up with the recollections and reflections of the cavalryman on his life.  I suspect this is partly autobiographical.  We are left to infer that Richard is a veteran of the First World War, appears to have served in the Spanish Civil War (on the Fascist side), and had some type of military administrative position during the Second World War.  He is now jobless and without prospects in prosperous post-war Germany.  Junger makes some shrewd jabs at the materialism and what he regards as the inauthenticity of post-war German life.  This is cleverly done but relatively conventional in spirit.  The real defect of the book is that Richard and his recollections are not sufficiently vivid to give a really good sense of the dislocations of German history, which is what I suspect Junger wished to convey.  An interesting failure.  As an aside, whatever his literary talents, Junger is not a very attractive character.  He was one of those vociferous right wing critics of democracy who contributed, in a small way, to the demise of the Weimar state.	2001-02-05
2124216:US	50676891	R3MPA2OKKU9ZA7	0899662951	540747022	The Disorderly Knights	Books	3	8	22	N	N	Overrated	These books have a tremendous following. This is not surprising as Dunnett is a very good writer and has a remarkable talent for maintaining readers' interest despite complicated, indeed contrived, plots.  A number of reviewers have commented that Dunnett is the heir to Dumas and Walter Scott.  This is accurate; Dunnett's books are modeled clearly on these Romantic novels.  In some respects, these books are actually superior to those classics.  Dunnett is arguably a better writer than Scott and her books are more graphically realistic than Dumas' novels. Dunnett seems to have tapped into a vein of feeling that is largely ignored by contemporary novelists.  The problem with her work is that it is not a serious effort to understand the past and reading these books will not be particularly rewarding in terms of gaining any real insight into history.  This is why comparisons with the work of Patrick O'Brien are misleading.  O'Brien's best novels supply a real insight into the conduct and psychology of late 18th Britain in a way that cannot be derived from any of Dunnett's novels.  Dunnett's books are very entertaining adventure novels,written at a surprisingly high and consistent level but they do not compare even to less complicated but more serious historical novels like Vanity Fair or The Killer Angels.	2001-01-28
2132111:US	50676891	RUAYZAB86T67E	0140259473	560223056	All Souls' Rising	Books	3	15	16	N	N	Very Good Historical Novel	This very good book describes the beginning phases of the great Haitian slave revolt.  Bell is a talented writer with a real gift for descriptive prose.  This long and dense book reads easily and is very informative.  Bell depicts a society in which whites, blacks, and mulattoes are locked in a mutual embrace of hatred and exploitation, leading to the horrific events described graphically in this book.  This book is not for the squemish, it contains many scenes of horrifying cruelty.  This book is very ambitious in scope and has some deficiencies.  I find Bell's efforts to emphasize the role of voudon, the syncretic Afro-Haitian religion, somewhat contrived.  For a useful comparison, see the brief and evocative novel The Kingdom of this World by the great Cuban novelist Alejo Carpentier.  Bell's characters are also somewhat flat.  This may be deliberate choice on his part; part of an effort to show the consequences of a society where almost all human relationships are based on asymmetric and exploitative power relationships.  Bell does not deal with the role of events in France or how these events shaped what happened in Haiti.  This is an understandable but crucial omission.  Consequently, we never get a sense of the collision of the ideals of the French Revolution with the reality of colonial exploitation.	2001-01-21
2132385:US	50676891	R3DY3JYFX23F6L	0140089373	664181182	Fools Crow (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Excellent and Often Powerful Historical Novel	James Welch is a talented writer of Amerindian ancestry who has written several good novels about the place of Amerindians in our society.  This book is a historical novel dealing with the destruction of Plains Indian culture in the 19th century; the beginning of the process whose consequences Welch has described in his other books.  Written from the point of view of a young Blackfoot man, it contains an unsentimental description of Plains Indian life on the eve of destruction of these cultures.  Intermingled is a powerful account of the process of destruction of the Blackfoot.  Welch does a particularly good job of depicting the animistic religion (if that is the correct term) of these peoples by showing how these spiritual elements were part of ordinary life.  Excellent writing that is also educational.	2001-01-21
2132427:US	50676891	R20WUY4SXJBD3B	0226731685	163032702	The Darwinian Revolution: Science Red in Tooth and Claw	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Excellent Intellectual History	This is an excellent book by a distinguished scholar who is also a fine writer.  The Darwinian Revolution is the story of a scientific community producing and assimilating one of the most momentous sets of ideas in human history.  Ruse deals thoughtfully and carefully with the scientific, philosophic, religous, and social background of British biology in the early 19th century, how this community became focused on the issue of evolution, how Darwin integrated himself into this community, and how this community dealt with the consequences of Darwin's work.  Ruse does a fine job of describing the work of Darwin and his precursors, provides a nice and concise social history of this community, deals sensitively with the religous dimensions of these issues, and does a really commendable job of examining the state of philosophy of science in the early Victorian period.  Written about 20 years ago, the conclusions of this book are still largely valid and Ruse provides a nice afterword to this edition to update his thinking on these questions.  Ruse is a clear writer with an almost conversational style.  This is really the book for readers interested in beginning an exploration of this interesting topic.  This is also an excellent companion volume to Janet Browne's superb biography of Darwin, still incomplete, because it covers much of the same ground but with an emphasis on this community of British scientists rather than Browne's focus on Darwin himself. A particularly interesting feature of the book is Ruse's explanation of the reception of Darwin's ideas by his colleagues.  Ruse points out that the academic biologists were largely able to go only part way with Darwin; they accepted evolution as a doctrine but were more resistant to the importance of natural selection.  There were both internal scientific and external philosophical/social reasons for this relative resistance to Darwin's scheme.  The full triumph of Darwinism has occurred in this century with the development of population genetics and more  recently, large scale ecological experiments and studies.ent of population genetics and more  recently, large scale ecological experiments and studies.	2001-01-21
2140473:US	50676891	R2CURGG24U0NPP	0385494246	654180128	Amsterdam: A Novel	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Witty Short Novel	Several reviewers have compared this book to the work of Evelyn Waugh and this is apt.  In common with some of Waugh's novels, notably books like Vile Bodies and A Handful of Dust, this is bitterly ironic social comedy.  Perhaps most similar to A Handful of Dust, Amsterdam is a savagely witty commentary on the British equivalent of the Baby Boomers, or at least their more intellectual and privileged strata.  In events precipitated by the unexpected death of an old friend (and former mutual lover), two old friends and a common adversary confront moral choices and fail miserably to meet the challenge.  Their failings are a result partly of efforts to recover some of their youthful idealism, and due partly to incredible self-absorption. This book is distinguished from Waugh's work by McEwan's ability to describe much more believeable characters.  Very well written.	2001-01-14
2160721:US	50676891	R39QI38P1XGU37	0691028958	642776258	Why Sex Matters: A Darwinian Look at Human Behavior	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Excellent Exploration of Human Behavioral Ecology	This fine book is an effort to produce a scholarly work that is accessible to the broad reading public.  Prof. Low is quite successful in her effort to satisfy both audiences.  Her primary preoccupations are to examine the consequences of fundamental differences between men and women in reproductive strategies, and through the examination of these consequences to demonstrate the utility of applying relatively simple Darwinian concepts to the study of human social behavior.  She draws on a wide variety of literature, including ethnology, history, studies of other mammalian species, particularly other primates, and political science research.  The first 2 or 3 chapters are relatively rudimentary but give a very careful overview of the intellectual apparatus used, and the limitations of that apparatus, for studies of this kind.  The chapters on human behaviors specifically are excellent; thorough, well documented, and intellectually honest.  This is a convincing book which may upset some but contains very well thought out and very well defended analyses of many aspects of human behavior.  There is an excellent bibliography and fine footnotes.	2000-12-29
2160828:US	50676891	RD82D80N338WY	0811214133	895075982	The Rings of Saturn	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Interesting Meditation on Decay and Alienation	This book is hard to classify.  It is not a novel and not even fiction in any typical sense.  The spine of the book is a walking tour made by author through the English county of Suffolk.  Sebald uses encounters along the way and memories elicited by some of these encounters to expand on a number of closely related themes; death, decay, and social alienation.  The quality of writing in excellent; even in translation it is apparent that Sebald is a very gifted stylist. Really is this an extended essay on these themes.  Not analytical but an attempt to descript in precise and sometimes lyrical prose, the experience of these death, decay, and alienation.  A clue to the nature of the book is the frequent mention of Thomas Browne, the author of the famous Melancholia, a treatise on what we would now call depression.  Sebald reports that he began work on this essay after what sounds like a severe episode of depression that followed his walking tour.  In this sense, this book is exploration also of Sebald's psyche and a very intellectualized depiction of depression.  Very  interesting, very well written and constructed, but of perhaps limited appeal.	2000-12-29
2165946:US	50676891	R3RO2EYSXT0Q23	0375703926	947999501	The Hunters: A Novel	Books	4	26	27	N	N	Excellent Novel	This was the first of several excellent novels (Solo Faces, Light Years, A Sport and A Pastime) by this author.  Based on his own experience as a fighter pilot in Korea, The Hunters is the story of an American pilot who wishes to become an ace.  Written in direct, deceptively simple, and precise language, The Hunters is an examination of the demands of wartime viewed through the prism of this relatively solitary pursuit.  Salter conveys the experience of the Korean war and dog-fighting beautifully.  Unlike most war novels, this book is a psychological novel preoccupied primarily with moral issues.  The key questions are what is the appropriate way to live, and its obverse question, what is the appropriate way to die?  This is the type of novel that Hemingway tried to write in For Whom The Bell Tolls.  Where Hemingway failed, Salter succeeds.  This deceptively modest book is much better than most of the serious American literature published over the last 50 years.	2000-12-24
2179903:US	50676891	R2LC436BBO6LS1	068816613X	692618099	The Magicians of Caprona (A Chrestomanci Book)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good Juvenile Book	Diana Wynne Jones has written many books for children, young adults, and adults.  Her output is a little uneven though she has not published any poor books.  This is definitely one of her better books, though not as good as The Spellcoats or Dogsbody.  A magical fantasy incorporating elements of Romeo and Juliet.  Good characterization and a clever plot with moments of real emotional intensity.  A good book for the late grade school to early teen years.	2000-12-11
2192018:US	50676891	R30KT3KVUVKJ5P	0304352225	353403695	The Wars of the Ancient Greeks and Their Invention of Western Military Culture (The Cassell history of Warfare)	Books	4	25	28	N	N	Excellent Overview	This is an excellent summary of Victor Davis Hanson's views on Greek warfare presented in the format of a coffeetable-style book.  This volume is superior to most books of this type because Davis Hanson's analysis is really a social history of Greek warfare, not the usual compendium of battles, campaigns, and military technology.  Davis Hanson does a very nice job of presenting the historical development of Greek warfare from the emergence of citizen hoplite militias associated with the classical polis to the large standing armies associated with large Hellenistic states.  For Davis Hanson, Greek military history is a key feature of classical history.  The hoplite militia and hoplite battles are the ultimate expression of the relative egalitarianism and solidarity of the polis.  Changes in military technology become semi-independent forces in classical history and an important aspect of the development of the polis and its replacement by authoritarian Hellenistic states.  This book is a clear digest of Davis Hanson's very interesting views of classical history.  His analysis is bold and largely convincing.  One area, however, where I think he is on shaky ground is his assertion that the Greeks invented heavy infantry combat and set the pattern for Western warfare.  He asserts further that this is distinctive feature of Western culture.  While it is true that military innovators of the early modern period did draw on classical models, it is much more likely that the development of assault infantry in early modern Europe is re-invention, as opposed to re-discovery.  Similarly, heavy infantry assault was independently developed by disparate non-Western societies such as the Zulus and the medieval Japanese.  I think Davis Hanson has identified something that is characteristically human, as opposed to characteristically Western.	2000-12-01
2207156:US	50676891	R3SMAKXMMVTG8U	0809015544	262702405	American Slavery, 1619-1877	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Excellent History of Slavery in the USA	Over the past 50 years, the study of slavery has been one of the most dynamic and contentious areas in American History.  A large volume of first-rate scholarship now exists on many aspects of North American slavery.  This excellent book is a successful effort to synthesize the large volume of information on North American slavery.  The book is organized chronologically, beginning with the Colonial period and progressing through the Revolution and the Antebellum period.  Kolchin does an excellent job of describing the historical evolution of slavery in the USA.  Another meritorious aspect is that Kolchin is an expert on the comparative history of slavery and provides useful comparative perspectives by comparing North American slavery with the features of other unfree societies.  Kolchin is a clear writer and the book is very well organized.  There is an excellent annotated bibliography which is a fine guide for readers interested in more specialized works on this topic.  This is a must read for anyone interested in American History.	2000-11-17
2218989:US	50676891	R3VDRHN0ZBIXIU	0809089068	518265730	Strange Victory: Hitler's Conquest of France	Books	3	22	25	N	N	Interesting Analysis of The Opening Phases of WWII	In this interesting book, Prof. May is concerned with determining why the Germans conquered France at the outset of WWII.  He takes pains to rebut common misconceptions about the fall of France.  The most important misconception is that the Germans were destined to win because of overwhelming technological and military superiority.  While other authors have commented on this point, May shows well that the French and British Armies had superior manpower, were at least equivalent in the air, and had real advantages in armor capabilities and artillery.  The Allies would also enjoy the tactical advantage of defending.  May concentrates on how decisions were made and why decision making in Germany, France, and Britain was structured as it was.  This results in an overlapping series of sections devoted to the crucial Allied and German decisions.  The first section is devoted to why the Allies failed to confront Germany over the acquisitions of Austria and Czechoslovakia.  Key issues here were the limitations imposed by domestic democratic politics and the inability of Allied leaders to understand that Hitler actually wanted war.  This is an understandable failure.  Chamberlain and Daladier, the latter a decorated veteran of the Western Front in WWI, thought that war would be catastrophic (they were correct,)and combat inconclusive (they were wrong), and couldn't imagine that any political leader with a shred of sense would choose war.  Looking back over the 20th century, individuals like Hitler are depressingly familiar - Mao, Pol Pot, Stalin, Saddam Hussein - the list is easy to compile.  Prior to the 30s, however, there had been no one on the European scene like Hitler since the time of Napoleon.  As May points out, moreover, the position of the Western leaders was not based on a perception of French and British weakness but rather on the understanding, shared by the German military, that France and Britain enjoyed superiority.<br />The next set of decisions examined by May are the failure of the French and British to attack Germany during the invasion of Poland.  Here, May excoriates the French in particular for the their timidity and lack of imagination.  Finally, there is a sustained and excellent series of chapters on German and Allied, particularly French, planning for the anticipated invasion of France.  May details the numerous crucial differences between the behavior of decision makers on both sides.  Particularly important to May is the comparison of decision making procedures between the two sides, a comparison which exposes the inferiority of Allied command.  Poor intelligence gathering, poorer intelligence interpretation, lack of coordination between intelligence services and operational planning, mediocre leadership within the French Officer Corps, lack of interservice cooperation, and poor relations between political and military leaders were all features of the Allied effort.  The Germans, in contrast, clearly made the most of their comparatively limited resources.  May is careful also to stress that while the Germans were good, they were also incredibly lucky.  A huge series of contingencies had to break their way and this is what happened.  For example, if the Germans had attacked in the winter of 1939-1940, as Hitler wanted originally, their existing attack plan would probably have resulted in a stalemate in Belgium. A variety of fortunate events led them to postpone the invasion and reformulate their attack plan into the successful assault through the poorly defended Ardennes region.<br />This book has some deficiencies.  It is well written and very well researched.  May succeeds in avoiding anachronistic judgements and gives a good sense of the perspectives of key decision makers uncontaminated by knowledge of what would follow.  By covering a whole series of decisions, however, May dilutes the impact of the book.  A good comparison is Richard Frank's Downfall, a book about the decision to use nuclear weapons to end WWII.  Frank's concentration on a single decision gave his book dramatic focus without sacrificing the import of the book.  May is very interested in the nature of executive decision making in the arena of international affairs.  He would like readers to draw conclusions from this book.  He does point out some similarities between France in the 30s and contemporary America; a military nervous of engagement without huge political support, a reluctance to risk casualties, and reliance on technology. But, he is careful to avoid facile historical generalizations.  Indeed, one of his points is that historical generalization can be profoundly misleading.  His final conclusion is that decision makers should be smart, critical, and embrace procedures that test their assumptions. Sensible, but I don't think you need a 400 page plus book to prove this point.ns to end WWII.  Frank's concentration on a single decision gave his book dramatic focus without sacrificing the import of the book.  May is very interested in the nature of executive decision making in the arena of international affairs.  He would like readers to draw conclusions from this book.  He does point out some similarities between France in the 30s and contemporary America; a military nervous of engagement without huge political support, a reluctance to risk casualties, and reliance on technology. But, he is careful to avoid facile historical generalizations.  Indeed, one of his points is that historical generalization can be profoundly misleading.  His final conclusion is that decision makers should be smart, critical, and embrace procedures that test their assumptions. Sensible, but I don't think you need a 400 page plus book to prove this point.	2000-11-07
2224059:US	50676891	R1P6XECXQ3G4FE	0415146925	493811617	Philosophy: The Classics	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Excellent Introduction	This short book is an excellent introduction to a number of philosophic classics.  This book is intended to stimulate interest in these texts.  Warburton has chosen about 20 important texts, beginning with The Republic and concluding with Wittgenstein's Philosophical Investigations, and written a short chapter, approximately 10-15 pages, on each.  The chapters contain a brief history of the text, a gloss of the text containing a summary of the principal arguments, criticisms of these arguments, and short bibliographies suggesting further reading.  Warburton is a clear writer, skilled at presenting ideas concisely.  I can't claim familiarity with all these works, but those I know are treated fairly.  The choice of texts, naturally, reflects Warburton's own interests (and perhaps his teaching responsibilities) and is heavy on British philosophers.  I bought this book for my teenage son, who is reading excerpts from some of these works in an AP history course.  Both of us have found this book interesting.	2000-11-02
2230585:US	50676891	R37ZF6NCE73SCQ	034542333X	147883919	Darwin's Radio	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Unexciting and Intellectually Weak	This book is a suspense thriller based on an idea about human speciation.  The concept is that apparently useless sequences within our genome can act to orchestrate qualitative changes in genetic structure and regulation leading to the instant emergence of a new human species.  Darwin's Radio is written in conventional popular thriller style with multiple characters, interleaved plot lines, and the usual romance and sex scenes.  Bear is a competent professional who handles these elements decently and the quality of characterization and writing is solid if not exciting.  As with much genre work, this book can be judged by non-literary criteria, in this case, the interest and plausibility of the ideas on which the plot is based.  In this respect, Darwin's Radio doesn't fare very well.  Bear did a lot of homework and seems to have learned a lot about genetics and virology in the course of preparing this book.  His grasp of population genetics and evolutionary biology, however, appears to be weak and unfortunately, his plot device is far fetched, probably impossible.  Even worse, he conflates 2 separate ideas.  One is the idea of macromutations leading to rapid evolution, the second idea is the notion of teleological evolution.  In this book, the new human species is presented as more intelligent than homo sapiens and the implication is that prior macromutations produced by this mechanism, modern homo sapiens included, were similarly more intelligent than their progenitors.  Why is this necessary?  Why, for example, couldn't a new human species be less intelligent but more social?  There is no necessary connection between macroevolution and these simplistic teleological notions. This book is neither intellectually coherent nor very well written.	2000-10-27
2231123:US	50676891	R2Z1R7TKV7KO0P	034542333X	147883919	Darwin's Radio	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Unexciting and Intellectually Weak	This book is a suspense thriller based on an idea about human speciation.  The concept is that apparently useless sequences within our genome can act to orchestrate qualitative changes in genetic structure and regulation leading to the instant emergence of a new human species.  Darwin's Radio is written in conventional popular thriller style with multiple characters, interleaved plot lines, and the usual romance and sex scenes.  Bear is a competent professional who handles these elements decently and the quality of characterization and writing is solid if not exciting.  As with much genre work, this book can be judged by non-literary criteria, in this case, the interest and plausibility of the ideas on which the plot is based.  In this respect, Darwin's Radio doesn't fare very well.  Bear did a lot of homework and seems to have learned a lot about genetics and virology in the course of preparing this book.  His grasp of population genetics and evolutionary biology, however, appears to be weak and unfortunately, his plot device is far fetched, probably impossible.  Even worse, he conflates 2 separate ideas.  One is the idea of macromutations leading to rapid evolution, the second idea is the notion of teleological evolution.  In this book, the new human species is presented as more intelligent than homo sapiens and the implication is that prior macromutations produced by this mechanism, modern homo sapiens included, were similarly more intelligent than their progenitors.  Why is this necessary?  Why, for example, couldn't a new human species be less intelligent but more social?  There is no necessary connection between macroevolution and these simplistic teleological notions. This book is neither intellectually coherent nor very well written.	2000-10-27
2246508:US	50676891	R12NE7LKFUZ9TV	0679879269	731430286	The Amber Spyglass (His Dark Materials, Book 3)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Excellent Writing and Thought Provoking	This series of books is about free will, the relationship between man and nature, the oppressive nature of dogmatic ideology, and the ambiguous effects of scientific knowledge.  It is also a superbly written and at times poetic fantasy novel.  Written for older children, this series can be read by all ages and in terms of themes, is really an adult work.  Admirers of Pullman's ability to create imaginative landscapes and characters will not be disappointed.  In one crucial respect, the construction of this book differs from its predecessors.  rather than concentrating on a single character to carry along the narrative, The Amber Compass has overlapping plotlines which Pullman handles quite competently.  It is also a thicker and more complex book than its predecessors.  The ending is satisfying, thought provoking, and complex.  It is claimed that Tolkien's aim in The Lord of the Rings was to produce an articulated mythology for the English speaking world.  In many respects, Pullman's work accomplishes that end more effectively than Tolkien in this richly detailed work of art.  Where Tolkien aimed to produce a Romantic view of the past, Pullman has developed a mythology for our age.	2000-10-14
2253384:US	50676891	R1O31U37VREK2J	031287054X	31473389	The Miocene Arrow	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Enjoyable Future History	This is a very good sequel to McMullen's Souls in the Great Machine.  That book, set in a very interesting post-apocalypse world, is one of the more imaginative future histories of recent years.  This book is a logical continuation of the prior story.  Because it builds on the prior book, without introducing any new major aspects of this future history, The Miocene Arrow does not have the same imaginative impact as Souls in the Great Machine.  McMullen's ability to construct an interesting and distinctly different future world remains impressive.  This is not just a copy of the first book.  He is a very competent writer, able to handle multiple plot lines well and good at developing characters.  He even handles humor quite well.  This book is not a completely self contained story.  To really understand this book, you have to read Souls in the Great Machine first.  This is not a major defect as both books are very worthwhile.  The concluding section of this book implies another book in this series.  I look forward to the next installment with anticipation.	2000-10-09
2254152:US	50676891	R27V5LDBVMSN4G	1570281874	895299685	The Soccer Referee's Manual (Soccer Referee's Manual, 2nd ed)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Very Good Instruction on Referring	This is a fine guide to soccer officiating.  Soccer rules are simple but sometimes difficult to interpret and there is a body of knowledge about interpretation that is not found in the official rule book.  This book is a good practical manual on the rules and interpretation.  It is organized well and has a series of questions (essentially FAQs) sprinkled throughout the text that add additional educational points.  It is a very quick read.  One defect is that the edition available in the USA is from 1994 and there have been some rule changes since that time.  These have generally been minor, such as it is now theoretically possible to score from a kickoff, but this information is not in this book.  An updated edition would be desirable.	2000-10-09
2280574:US	50676891	R325U17397E68M	0691050082	973395160	Darwin's Spectre	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Solid Explanations, Interesting Speculations	This is an interesting book written for a wide audience.  Rose, a  distinguished biologist known for his theoretical and experimental work on  aging, aims to give a concise overview of Darwinism, a historical  background of Darwinism, some insight into the importance of Darwinism for  our culture, and some ideas about how Darwinism might help to explain human  behavior.  He accomplishes all these goals in this relatively brief and  well written volume.  Though I don't agree with all of Rose's conclusions,  this is a good introductory book with a good annotated bibliography.	2000-09-17
2281162:US	50676891	R3RBPNSWSHR7VX	061808231X	399100511	Walking Since Daybreak : A Story of Eastern Europe, World War II, and the Heart of Our Century	Books	3	12	16	N	N	Interesting Combination of Memoir, Meditation, and History	This book, written by a well known Canadian historian, is an attempt to  gain perspective on some of the horrors of the 20th century through a  combination of family memoir and history.  The author, a specialist on  modern European history, is also an emigre from Latvia whose family escaped  to Canada in the aftermath of the Second World War.  Eksteins uses his  family history and the history of Latvia as a way of capturing many of the  horrible events of the 20th century.  The disasters of the First World War,  the Russian Revolution and Civil War, the triumph of the Soviet State, the  German invasion of Russia, the bombings of German cities, and the  sufferings of post-war refugees were all experienced personally by Eksteins  and his family.  Eksteins artfully interleaves the story of his family, the  history of Latvia, and the larger history of 20th century Europe into a  portrait of the disintegration of 19th century European life.  The  structure of the book is that the vignettes that comprise the narrative  proceed both towards and away from the psychic epicenter of the book, the  year 1945, when much of Europe was rubble.  This book appears to have begun  as a conventional attempt to describe Europe in 1945.  Eksteins apparently  found this to be a difficult or impossible task.  This is understandable;  no such description is possible without an understanding the events leading  to 1945, and a comprehensive description of these would be well beyond a  single book.  Eksteins appears to be troubled also by the fact that  contemporary historical scholarship cannot extract meaning from the study  of history.  To paraphrase him, there can only be histories, not a single  history.  I suspect he also found it difficult to contemplate the truly  awful events discussed in this book.  At one point, he writes that 1945 is  not a triumph but a problem.  This is a clear and valid attack on the  facile triumphalism exhibited by a lot of discussion about the Second World  War.  Still, one wonders if this very well written book is too pessimistic.  Eksteins' success in conveying the nature of the events he describes  denies his pessimism over the so-called failure of history.  While he is  correct in criticizing triumphalist views of the World War Two, it is not  entirely fair to make statements about 1945 being solely a problem.  The  fact is that it was also a triumph and the ambiguous beginning of new  Europe.ar.  Still, one wonders if this very well written book is too pessimistic.   Eksteins' success in conveying the nature of the events he describes  denies his pessimism over the so-called failure of history.  While he is  correct in criticizing triumphalist views of the World War Two, it is not  entirely fair to make statements about 1945 being solely a problem.  The  fact is that it was also a triumph and the ambiguous beginning of new  Europe.	2000-09-16
2314567:US	50676891	RAUI5CFBCK5D5	0520211294	481240225	ReORIENT: Global Economy in the Asian Age	Books	3	48	57	N	N	Interesting but Flawed	An interesting and very ambitious book by a distinguished scholar.  Frank  challenges the views of a number of important thinkers about world history  including important contemporary historians such as Braudel and  Wallerstein, and seminal 19th century theorists such as Marx and Weber.  Briefly, Frank attacks a 'eurocentric' model of world development that sees  capitalism emerging in Europe and then enmeshing the whole world in a  Europe centered world economy.  Instead, he emphasizes the vigor of a well  established Afro-Asian capitalist economy that Western Europe was able to  participate in only belatedly and only by extracting precious metals from  the Western Hemisphere.  He shows convincingly that up until the threshold  of the Industrial Revolution, Afro-Asian trade remained the greater part of  the world economy.  These points are an important corrective to the  existing model.  He goes too far, however, in asserting that the world  economy was not created by European activity.  This is a simple point of  logic.  A world economy means literally that, an economic system that  encompasses the whole globe.  It is only with the European expansion of the  early modern period that the Western Hemisphere and Oceania were  incorporated into the world economy.  While the Afro-Asian trade networks  would remain quantitatively substantially larger than trade involving  Europe, the European additions to the world economy introduce a qualitative  difference in world trade networks.  Nor is it likely that China, Mughal  India, or any other Afro-Asian economic power would have discovered the  Western Hemisphere.  Another flaw in this book is the somewhat rambling  style.  At times this can be a real obstacle to following Frank's  arguments. There are 2 chapters on economic cycles that are poorly  organized and at times seem contradictory.  Frank's use of what appears to  be a rather nebulous literature on cycles is unclear and he resorts at  times to the poorly defined idea of Kondratieff waves as an explanatory  force.  The book finishes with a sketchy attempt to account for the  Industrial Revolution. For those interested in this important topic, I  recommend Kenneth Pomeranz's The Great Divergence, which covers some of the  same ground in a more logical and systematic manner.dea of Kondratieff waves as an explanatory  force.  The book finishes with a sketchy attempt to account for the  Industrial Revolution. For those interested in this important topic, I  recommend Kenneth Pomeranz's The Great Divergence, which covers some of the  same ground in a more logical and systematic manner.	2000-08-21
2344548:US	50676891	R1GN4FY9LHQCF7	0345314875	129907477	Requiem for a Ruler of Worlds: (Alacrity FitzHugh and Hobart Floyt, No 1)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Entertaining Space Opera	This is an enjoyable and solid space opera distinguished by gentle humor and some on target satire.  Good trip reading.  Well worth a few dollars in a used bookstore.	2000-07-31
2345595:US	50676891	RLKTOFFDV4BD5	0441006337	872191764	The Gnomewrench in the Dwarfworks	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Solid Entertainment	This is a modest and entertaining book.  Avoiding the usual tendency of fantasy novels to have epochal, and usually overwrought, clashes of good and evil, this is a clever fantasy with historical elements.  The idea is  that magic and magical creatures exist in the modern world.  In this case,  the author integrates magical metal working dwarves with the WWII war  effort.  Some good humor and period detail.  The plot is a little loose but  this is worthwhile entertainment.	2000-07-31
2352676:US	50676891	RCDG1MWVWAJ7E	0553213393	904052489	Inferno (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Available on the Web	Reading poetry in translation is problematic.  I am sure that even the best translators fail to capture essential elements of great poetry.  For linguistically limited individuals like me, there is no option.  Mandelbaum's translation was praised highly when first published.  This  translation is really interesting reading, is very clear, probably gives an  excellent sense of what Dante wrote, and some sense of the quality of his  language.  This translation is available also on the Web at a very nice  site maintained at Columbia University.	2000-07-26
2355220:US	50676891	RMAE92SETVCNY	067941424X	474125502	Downfall: The End of the Imperial Japanese Empire	Books	4	20	23	N	N	Meticulous and Evenhanded	This fine book is a well written and thoughtful description and analysis of the end of the Second World War.  Frank deals particularly with the contentious issue of whether or not use of nuclear weapons was necessary.  This book has a number of excellent features.  It is based on extensive  research, much of it involving documents that became available only  recently.  Frank brings a scrupulous critical intelligence to his use of  primary sources and is excellent at putting the decision to use nuclear  weapons in the larger context of the war.  He is especially good at  reconstructing the actions of Japanese decision makers and emphasizes the  autonomy of these individuals.  Frank has made a rigorous and successful  effort to avoid anachronistic judgements and really shows us what kind of  information both American and Japanese decision makers had at the time.  Frank shows clearly that the decision to use nuclear weapons was rational  and well informed, and was probably the best of a set of horrible  alternatives.  Frank presents also convincing evidence that the use of  nuclear weapons was motivated primarily by a war time considerations and  not by an intention to cow the Soviet Union.  This book should be the last  word on this subject.  Only at the end of the book does Frank make a  judgement about the character of decision making by Truman and his  advisors.  Frank points out that Truman and the other American decision  makers wished to end the war as quickly as possible, that they wished to  minimize the loss of life, especially but not only American lives, that  they wished to avoid the wholesale disintegration of Japanese society that  might well have followed either blockade or an invasion, and that they  wished a durable peace.  These men, operating with imperfect information,  under tremendous pressures, and faced with a set of horribly unpalatable  alternatives, achieved all these goals.	2000-07-24
2370845:US	50676891	R35CF28A8QCM08	0679767436	757818213	The Battle For History: Re-fighting World War II	Books	1	26	38	N	N	Misleading	This book is a shameless attempt on the part of the publisher and the author to trade on Keegan's reputation and the great general interest in WWII.  The title and subtitle to this book leads readers to expect a  historiography of WWII.  Instead, this is a short bibliographic essay on  important books on WWII.  While Keegan's recommendations are useful, this  slight book is not worth spending money on unless you can buy it at a steep  discount.  This is the kind of information that should appear at the back  of a decent one volume history and which I suspect is absent from Keegan's  book on WWII.	2000-07-14
2374374:US	50676891	R336SMO5Y2I2CO	0520048989	232325075	Europe and the People Without History: With a New Preface	Books	4	44	51	N	N	Very Interesting but Intermittantly Tendentious	This interesting book by a well known anthropologist is aimed at describing and analyzing the transformations wrought by the expansion of European commerce and capitalism in the last few centuries.  Wolf is  concerned particularly at reconstructing the often ignored history of  indigenous groups generally ignored or seen as passive participants in  conventional, 'eurocentric', accounts.  He also wishes to remind  anthropologists that social features are often the product of highly  individual historic processes and not necessarily intrinsic or universal  features of human existence.  Finally, he hopes to escape the sterility of  concentrating on abstract social processes by emphasizing the historical  nature of events and the key role of political and especially, basic  features of economic organization.  With respect to these goals, this is a  very successful book.  The coverage of the transformation of societies all  over the world by European expansion is excellent and the product of much  judicious reading.  In this context, Wolf shows well that a number of  classic examples of ethnographic inquiry involve societies whose essential  forms were shaped by encounters with European commercial and capitalist  expansion.  These facts destroy the many of the traditional inferences  drawn from ethnographic analysis.  This book has some significant flaws.  It contains some tendentious chapters and paragraphs devoted to theorizing.  Like much social science theorizing, these sections contain a good bit of  commonsense dressed up in dense language and a fair amount of argumentation  that will be meaningful only to those involved in these recondite debates.  Wolf draws heavily on the Marxist (Marxian) tradition.  This has pros and  cons.  On the one hand, this is very appropriate as Wolf's theme is really  an explication of Marx's great insight into the discontinuity introduced  into human history by capitalism.  In this sense, the use of Marxist  categories of analysis is successful and has real analytic power.  Wolf is  careful also not to exaggerate the power of these ideas.  On the other  hand, in the later parts of the book, his reliance of Marxist ideas such as  the surplus value idea and his analysis of politics in a Marxist manner is  superficial, unconvincing, and glosses over many, many key issues. Still,  this is a very good book and if you are looking for books that attempt a  literally global view of history, this is an excellent starting point.is successful and has real analytic power.  Wolf is  careful also not to exaggerate the power of these ideas.  On the other  hand, in the later parts of the book, his reliance of Marxist ideas such as  the surplus value idea and his analysis of politics in a Marxist manner is  superficial, unconvincing, and glosses over many, many key issues. Still,  this is a very good book and if you are looking for books that attempt a  literally global view of history, this is an excellent starting point.	2000-07-12
2381029:US	50676891	R2TX9E78LC09RZ	0684827123	635805839	The Song of the Dodo: Island Biogeography in an Age of Extinction	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Excellent Science Journalism	This is a book about species extinction.  More properly, this book is  about what the study of species distributions on islands, island  biogeography, tells us about extinctions.  It is also a well written and in  some ways artful book.  It is clear that Quammen admires greatly pioneering  biogeographers like the great Alfred Wallace.  This book, consequently,  follows the travelogue format used by these pioneering biologists in their  writings on biogeography.  This book is lengthy and covers many interesting  topics including the history of the discovery of natural selection, the  nature of speciation, and the development of modern ideas about species  distribution on islands.  There is a tremendous amount of fascinating  natural history and biology packed into this book, some gleaned from  Quammen's careful and comprehensive investigation of the scientific  literature, some from extensive interviews and travels with important  scientists.  Quammen uses a somewhat discursive writing style but his skill  in writing individual sections and implicitly linking topics maintains the  integration of the book.  The only comparable book(s) I can think of, and  this is a great compliment, are John McPhee's excellent work on geology.  Recommended strongly.	2000-07-09
2383986:US	50676891	R3SC4BPJZIQP5N	0803614659	385821037	Spinal Cord Compression: Diagnosis and Principles of Management (Contemporary Neurology Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Very Good but a Little Dated	Published a decade ago, this very good book retains considerable value.  The authors concentrate on medical aspects of spinal cord injury and  exclude trauma, congenital spinal cord problems,and low back pain from  discussion.  The books covers spinal cord and spine anatomy, the clinical  features of spinal cord injury, the approach to spinal cord problems, and  then reviews neoplastic and non-neoplastic spinal cord disorders.  All  chapters are written well, referenced well, and have good illustrations.  Despite the passage of a decade, the discussions of clinical features and  approach to the patient retain almost complete value.  The major defect is  that MRI was just becoming widely available as this book was written and  the imaging sections and illustrations are out of date.  Still an excellent  reference volume.	2000-07-07
2384789:US	50676891	R3E4ADRYDS645S	0671567829	195903904	The Bookman's Wake (Cliff Janeway Novels)	Books	2	3	9	N	N	Competent Ross MacDonald Knockoff	This is yet another variation on the classic American private detective novel.  This book is competently written and plotted but lacks originality.  This book has many of the features developed by Raymond Chandler, and in  particular, Ross MacDonald.  The protagonist is a decent but tough  detective and the plot involves a troubled young heroine, family pathology,  and murder.  These are the elements of the typical Ross MacDonald mystery.  The Bookman's Wake is decent entertainment but if you like this style of  mystery, read Ross MacDonald for superior versions of this genre.	2000-07-07
2384915:US	50676891	R67QR9TLX01RG	0393308251	807371852	From Resistance to Revolution: Colonial Radicals and the Development of American Opposition to Britain, 1765-1776	Books	4	38	38	N	N	Excellent and Pioneering Study	In this very well written book, Professor Maier describes the evolution of colonial thought and political action from protest within an accepted formula of dissent to revolution.  She shows how colonial actions were  based upon a perceived constitutional pattern articulated by British  dissident Whig intellectuals and political publicists.  From the end of the  Seven Years War to the outbreak of the revolution, she shows the leaders of  colonial protest working step by step to maintain what they perceived as  the proper relationship between rulers and governed.  Their actions greeted  usually with incomprehension by British officials and politicians.  Eventually, the colonials concluded that revolution was the only remaining  option.  Maier is particularly interested in the violent and coercive acts  of the pre-revolutionary period.  She shows nicely that this kind of  activity (eg, the Boston Tea Party and similar events) took place within an  established tradition of public violence that was usually constrained and  sanctioned by community leaders and reflected a public consensus.  These  type of actions were 'extra-legal' as opposed to 'illegal', and were driven  by the sense that the British government had violated a social contract  between rulers and governed, thus legitimizing extra-legal action.  Maier  shows also the irrational elements of the colonial cause.  For example,  many believed that British actions were part of a conspiracy that included  French bribery to obtain a suitable settlement at the end of the Seven  Years War.  There was also considerable fear of the imposition of Anglican  and even Roman Catholic religion.  The Quebec Act, granting religous  freedom to the francophone inhabitants of Quebec, was regarded perhaps the  most threatening of the so-called Intolerable Acts.  Readers who have  picked up recent surveys of the Revolutionary period such as Middlekauf's  The Glorious Cause or Bobrick's recent book will find Maier's arguments  familiar.  This is because Maier's work is now fundamental to understanding  the American Revolution.liar.  This is because Maier's work is now fundamental to understanding  the American Revolution.	2000-07-07
2385836:US	50676891	R2QLA3Q19BGEYO	0671656449	30488694	Ragged Astronauts	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Solid Entertaiment	This is a good, entertaining fantasy/science fiction novel by an underrated author.  Shaw wrote a number of good books and stories, many of which can be found in used bookstores.  This is the first installment in a  series set in an unusual alternative universe.  In this world, pi is an  even number and it appears that some aspects of physics are different.  This is essentially an adventure story set in a solar system in which 2  planets orbit a sun as a pair and share an atmosphhere.  The storyline  concerns travel, by balloon, between the 2 planets.  The basic idea is  intriguing though the real differences in physics are never really explored  but used a platform for a conventional adventure story.  Worth picking up  from used bookstores.	2000-07-06
2389488:US	50676891	R3U9060ZMM0TRL	0374118280	567398503	The Campaign	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Overly Ambitious	In this somewhat allegorical novel of early 19th century Latin American history, Fuentes attempts to produce a hybrid historical and philosophical novel.  The protagonist is a young Argentine revolutionary and romantic  whose travels take him throughout Latin America during the revolts from  Spain.  The allegory is the protagonist's pursuit of a woman whom he  glimpsed only briefly and whom he has wronged.  The result is not really  successful, partly because characters and narrative seem to switch from one  mode to another without good integration of the philosophical and  historical elements Fuentes is attempting to combine.  Oddly, the book  suffers from being too short.  It would have been much better to  incorporate the philosophical elements into a longer and more naturalistic  historical novel, a la Tolstoy's War and Peace.  This book also contains  some magical realist elements, which seem engrafted into the novel and  consequently incongruous.  Interesting but not very rewarding reading.	2000-07-04
2390732:US	50676891	R3TE8QI0SDFYUL	0070352038	216703047	Movement Disorders: Neurologic Principles and Practice	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Excellent Textbook	This multi-author text is a an example of what can be accomplished by diligent editors and a committed publisher.  Movement Disorders is intended to be a comprehensive text on this sub-specialty of Neurology and succeeds  admirably.  All relevant topics are covered well with individual chapters  written by real experts.  The quality of writing and production is  excellent.  The Editors, Drs. Watts and Koller, are to be congratulated on  a first rate job.  Even though I am a Movement Disorder specialist, I find  myself resorting to this book when confronted with puzzling cases and when  looking for relevant literature.  I recommend this book for the bookshelf  of every neurologist.	2000-07-03
2391442:US	50676891	RI57BDAMO197E	0553580531	409245980	Gates of Fire: An Epic Novel of the Battle of Thermopylae	Books	3	8	15	N	N	Entertaining	This is an entertaining historical novel, though not completely successful.  In many respects, this is a serious attempt to reconstruct Spartan society and the psychology of the Spartiates.  Given the  fragmentary information available about Classical Sparta, this is very  difficult and the author deserves considerable credit for attempting this  task in a readily accessible format.  The book culminates with the a  tremendous and irresistible set-piece, the battle of Thermopylae, which is  described quite imaginatively and forcefully.  I am not sure, however, that  it is really possible to reconstruct the psychology of the Spartans and at  times, the writing descends into cliches.  The heroes of Thermopylae did  die for the freedom of Greece, but what exactly does that mean?  A  civilization in which chattel slavery was common, and a society based on  serfdom supporting a warrior elite had very different ideas than us about  the concepts of freedom and liberty.  I don't believe that this book really  comes to grips with this problem.	2000-07-03
2392799:US	50676891	R3J0ZDD724J5JU	0140267255	971843216	The Eastern Front 1914-1917	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Pioneering Introduction; Still Very Good	Despite the huge literature on WWI, there is little available on the Eastern Front.  Published 25 years ago, this pioneering effort is still an excellent overview and as far as I know, the only readily accessible book  on this subject.  In one crucial respect, this book is head and shoulders  above most overviews.  Stone set out not only to describe the conflict on  the Eastern Front but also to analyze the spectacular failure of the  Russian war effort, leading ultimately to the Russian Revolution.  Stone  does a very good job of providing the important basic narrative and  analyzing the causes of Russian failure.  Prior to Stone's work, the  leading hypothesis for Russian failure was the backwardness of the Russian  economy.  Stone makes a very strong case that the Russian economy was  capable of supporting the war.  He sees the Russian state as unable to  provide the military, political, and economic leadership necessary to  prosecute the war, leading to military failure and economic disaster.  In  the strictly military history aspects of the book, the recurring theme is  the remarkable incompetence of the Russian military leadership.  Stone  wrote before the end of the Soviet state and this restricted his access to  important sources.  It is very likely that some of his specific points will  be found to be wrong and corrected.  On the other hand, it is not likely  that his fundamental assessments are wrong.	2000-07-02
2399879:US	50676891	R1U5GAUMIKMOJC	0713633190	377748895	Coaching Youth Soccer	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Excellent Introduction to Coaching Soccer	This is a fine book on coaching youth soccer.  There are many competing books, most of which are very similar.  All competing books, and this one as well, emphasize basic skills and techniques.  What distinguishes this  book is the attention to detail and the emphasis on a systematic approach  to coaching.  Each chapter is very well written with good descriptions of  techniques and good drills.  The author encourages the development of a  long term graduated approach to introducing and refining skills.  Very good  illustrations.  As an experienced youth coach, I have looked at a lot of  coaching books and this is the best single book.	2000-06-27
2403837:US	50676891	RQ85Q67QOJOLZ	0195032098	804812012	Over Here: The First World War and American Society (Galaxy Books)	Books	4	31	32	N	N	Excellent	This is a fine work by the author of the Pulitzer winning &quot;Freedom from Fear&quot;.  In this book, Prof. Kennedy provides a thematic overview of the American experience in WWI.  This is not a narrative history but an  analysis of several important aspects of that experience.  Topics include  the effect of entry into the war and the war experience on the Progressive  Movement; the impact of the war on the American economy, the American Labor  movement, and the Federal Government; the experience of organizing the  large army; the efforts to plan for a postwar world; and the ultimate  failure of Wilson's efforts to make the US the leader of benign  international order.  Kennedy shows very well how the debate over war entry  and splintered the Progressive movement. The suppression of dissent during  and after the war dealt a serious blow to reformers and the liberal-left  movement that had been the prewar engine of reform.  Government efforts  during the war were characterized by efforts to persuade business rather  than developing a centralized economy, though central planning and coercion  would probably have been necessary if the war had continued.  There is a  particularly good chapter on American efforts to use the war to establish  American preeminence in international trade, followed by American  withdrawal from that role.  One defect of the book is that the thematic  organization of the chapters leaves some important points unconnected.  For  example, in an early chapter Kennedy argues cogently that the turn to the  right that accompanied the war, encouraged by his administration, would rob  him ultimately of important allies for supporting his internationalism in  the postwar period.  At the end of the book, he makes similar points about  Wilson's conduct towards European Liberal-Left movements but these two  complementary points are never connected explicitly.  Kennedy is an  excellent writer and this book contains a great deal of first rate  analysis.  Recommended strongly.ecommended strongly.	2000-06-25
2404283:US	50676891	R2IY2IOHZPUXOU	0679767479	801720322	The Untouchable	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Excellent Novel	Like some other Banville novels (Dr. Copernicus, Kepler), this book is a combined psychological and historical novel.  This novel is a fictionalization of the life of Anthony Blunt, the esteemed art historian  revealed late in life to have been a spy for the Soviet Union.  Like other  members of his spy circle, Blunt was raised in the heart of the British  establishment just as many of its key institutions were losing their power  to compel loyalty.  Banville writes extremely well and does a wonderful job  of conveying the ambivalent motivations and ambiguous actions of Blunt and  his cohorts.  Banville's portrait of his protagonist is hardly sympathetic  and might be described as clinical but is compelling and richly detailed.	2000-06-25
2409286:US	50676891	R3TDNSP7DVF9HR	0801432545	495481478	China Transformed: Historical Change And The Limits Of European Experience	Books	3	22	27	N	N	Interesting but Uneven	This interesting book is an attempt to look at Chinese history in an unbiased manner.  Professor Wong notes correctly that interpretations of many scholars are distorted by judging Chinese history by its deviations  from what is presumed to be the normative, or desired, course of  development.  The normative standards, of course, are derived from European  history.  Wong makes the very good point that using European history in  this way is damaging not only to the study of Chinese history but also  imposes distortions on the study of European history.  Wong is concerned  particularly with examining Chinese economic development and state  formation.  This book covers a very wide sweep of Chinese history, roughly  from the Ming to contemporary China.  The book is divided into 3  components; one comparing China and Europe in the pre-industrial period of  the 17th and 18th centuries, one looking at the response of the Chinese  state and society to the great challenges of the 19th century, and one  looking at the response of the Chinese state and society to social unrest.  The first third of the book is the best.  The analysis of pre-industrial  China is really interesting and Wong makes a set of very interesting  points.  He demonstrates well that the economic differences between China  and pre-industrial Europe have been exaggerated.  He then examines the  unique character of the Chinese state.  Again, the comparison with European  political development is illuminating.  This section achieves Wong's goal  of treating Chinese history as an autonomous phenomenon but maintaining a  useful comparative perspective.  The second part of the book is quite good  and the discussion of the problems faced by the 19th century Chinese state  and its responses is interesting.  Again, there are interesting comparisons  with European states.  The final section is the least interesting.  It adds  little to carrying forward Wong's basic project of establishing the  autonomy of studying Chinese history.  Indeed, I see little that departs  from prior conventional interpretations.  This section in particular  suffers also from Wong's attempt to cover such a broad range of Chinese  history and at times has a superficial quality.  Wong is generally a clear  writer but sometimes slips into what might be called post-modernist  academic jargon.  For example, the narrative (used to mean analysis)  appears often, as does discourse (ditto), and privilege appears as a verb.  This is not a major defect but is irritating.Chinese history.  Indeed, I see little that departs  from prior conventional interpretations.  This section in particular  suffers also from Wong's attempt to cover such a broad range of Chinese  history and at times has a superficial quality.   Wong is generally a clear  writer but sometimes slips into what might be called post-modernist  academic jargon.  For example, the narrative (used to mean analysis)  appears often, as does discourse (ditto), and privilege appears as a verb.   This is not a major defect but is irritating.	2000-06-22
2415642:US	50676891	R3DC8T1C118UWW	0140184627	297943237	Babel: Collected Stories (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Contains a Masterpiece	The Red Cavalry story sequence is one of the great works of 20th century literature.  It is reportedly based on Babel's experience as a Commissar in the Red Army during the post-revolutionary invasion of Poland.  Babel's  autobiographical narrator reflects profound ambivalence.  An urban Jew and  intellectual serving with peasant Cossack soldiers whose conduct would have  been normative during the 30 Years War, Babel's narrator exemplifies and  documents the profound contradictions of the Russian Civil War and  revolutionary effort.  The stories contain multiple scenes of great power,  horror, and punishing irony.  Other reviewers, see below, have commented on  the unpleasant nature of these stories.  These reactions are a tribute to  Babel's capacity as a writer.  Why should we expect anything pleasant from  this subject?  This work is intended to be profoundly disturbing.  Babel  aimed to show clearly some of the horror of his time and did so in a way  that no factual chronicler can equal.	2000-06-19
2418448:US	50676891	RUIL3FM90F902	0801432545	495481478	China Transformed: Historical Change And The Limits Of European Experience	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Interesting But Uneven	This is a very ambitious attempt to free the study of Chinese history from somewhat inappropriate perspectives.  Wong correctly criticizes many prior views of China as baised by viewing European history as normative and then  studyng China as a deviation from European norms.  He argues this is a  particular problem in studies of economic development and state formation.   He attempts to avoid this trap by comparing Chinese and European history in  an unbiased by not relativistic format that he hopes will cast light on the  distinctive features of both European and Chinese history. Ths book  consists of 3 major parts; Economic history and Development, State  Formation, and a section on Protest and Social Change.  The scope of the  book is very ambitious, spanning the Ming period up to Communist and  contemporary China.  The first parts of the book, dealing with economic  development and the features of the Imperial state, are the most  interesting.  Here Wong is able to demonstrate both the interesting  similarities in pre-industrial development and the considerable differences  in state structure/formation.  This is a nice, balanced overview with  considerable analytic power.  Later portions of the book are not as strong.   Having made his essential points, a good part of the second half of the  book is repetitive.  The sections dealing with the problems of the 19th  century Chinese state are quite good but the third part of the book,  dealing with social protest is relatively thin and adds little to the  essential argument.  Wong would have been better off restricting the scope  of the book and deepening the analysis.  One thing that impressed me about  the second half of Wong's book is that his interpretation doesn't seem  truly different from conventional analyses with the difference being  largely a matter of terminology.  A minor defect is that while Wong is a  clear writer there are times when he slips into post-modernist (or whatever  you want to call it) academic jargon.  The words narrative (used to  describe analysis), discourses (ditto), and privilege (as a verb) are  sprinkled throught the text.  Sloppy.	2000-06-17
2432572:US	50676891	R3O98N07ZH5929	0262210169	462970400	Pricing Life: Why It's Time for Health Care Rationing (Basic Bioethics)	Books	3	13	15	N	N	Solid Analysis of Issues Related to Health Care Rationing	Modern medicine is one of the great successes of industrial civilization.  This remarkable progress, however, has come at a very high price.  In the USA, for example, we spend close to 15% of our GNP on health care.  We are  the champion health care spendthrift of developed world but other  industrialized countries spend huge amounts on health care.  It is not  surprising that huge pressures are exerted to hold down costs; HMO  management in the USA, waiting lists for complex procedures in many  countries; restricted access to specialists in Great Britain.  All of these  cost containment involve rationing of health care services.  It is a  surprise, then, that this good book is one of the few to explicitly address  rationing of health care.  Dr. Ubel makes a series of cogent, indeed,  commonsense points.  Rationing is common.  Rationing is inevitable in any  system without infinite resources.  Physicians, even those who believe that  they are not rationing health care, either practice rationing at the  bedside and are enmeshed in systems that make rationing decisions.  Ubel  decries properly the existence of this type of implicit rationing and  argues instead that since rationing is inevitable, physicians should  participate in explicit and rational efforts to ration care.  This leads  Ubel to a series of interesting recommendations.  One is that physicians  are in the best position to make certain kinds of rationing decisions,  &quot;bedside rationing', because they can individualize care and are best  able to attempt to reconcile the needs of patients with the existence of  limited resources.  Ubel is an advocate of a certain type of utilitarian  analysis, cost effective analysis (CEA), as a tool for deciding the value  of tests and interventions.  He exposes the limitations of CEA carefully  and suggests ways in which it might be improved in order to become a useful  tool.  I think this book is primarily aimed at academic physicians with the  hope of influencing physician education and approach to this kind of  difficult problem.  In this respect, this is a successful effort.<br />There  are several problems with the book.  As Ubel acknowledges, it is not a  rigorous or systematic book, but more polemical in spirit.  There is  definitely a need for a major systematic work(s) on this topic.  Another  problem is Ubel's recommendation of CEA.  He is very clear about the  limitations of this method but he recommends it because he views it as  flexible enough to incorporate societal preferences.  Even if this were  methodologically possible, I doubt this would work in the USA.  In  relatively homogeneous and consensus oriented countries like Sweden or  Japan, this approach would have real value.  It has, however, been a long  time since Americans reached consensus on many, many fundamental issues  related to values, and this situation is unlikely to change.  Finally, Ubel  does not go far enough.  Given resource limitations, methods like CEA,which  help make choices among tests and interventions, will not address the  really tough issues regarding who should receive care and how much is  appropriate.  These are horribly difficult problems but must be faced  squarely.physician education and approach to this kind of  difficult problem.  In this respect, this is a successful effort.<br />There  are several problems with the book.  As Ubel acknowledges, it is not a  rigorous or systematic book, but more polemical in spirit.  There is  definitely a need for a major systematic work(s) on this topic.  Another  problem is Ubel's recommendation of CEA.  He is very clear about the  limitations of this method but he recommends it because he views it as  flexible enough to incorporate societal preferences.  Even if this were  methodologically possible, I doubt this would work in the USA.  In  relatively homogeneous and consensus oriented countries like Sweden or  Japan, this approach would have real value.  It has, however, been a long  time since Americans reached consensus on many, many fundamental issues  related to values, and this situation is unlikely to change.  Finally, Ubel  does not go far enough.  Given resource limitations, methods like CEA,which  help make choices among tests and interventions, will not address the  really tough issues regarding who should receive care and how much is  appropriate.  These are horribly difficult problems but must be faced  squarely.	2000-06-10
2439643:US	50676891	R1TFU8SCJWQJ0D	0316181730	181900450	The Blood of the Lamb	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Moving and Funny	Like all of De Vries work, this is a very funny book devoted to a very serious subject.  The serious subject is loss of faith, in this case elicited by the serious illness and eventual death of a young child. Based  apparently on events within De Vries' own family, Blood of the Lamb has all  the hallmarks of De Vries best work; superb humor, exceptionally witty word  play, and great emotional power.  The conclusion is remarkably moving.  I  have recommended this book to physicians in training to convey the  incredible suffering experienced by families with ill children.	2000-06-06
2444910:US	50676891	R3TZF6X7YSYQ5E	0691005435	157750898	The Great Divergence: China, Europe, and the Making of the Modern World Economy (The Princeton Economic History of the Western World)	Books	5	149	158	N	N	Rich and Provocative Book on Crucial Topic	This is a provocative book in the best sense; it addresses an important subject, is well argued, is based on an excellent scholarship, and reaches conclusions that will stimulate a great deal of debate. Pomeranz seeks to  explain how Western European Societies made the leap into industrialization  and world domination.  Pomeranz begins by rebutting prior explanations of  European success.  Most versions of these models, which were reasonable  proposals given prior fragmentary knowledge of Asian history, are  demographic or economic in nature.  Europeans had lower birth-rates,  Europeans were the first to develop free markets, consumption of key luxury  goods was higher and primed the pump for international trade, Early Modern  Europe underwent proto-industrialization as handicraft production for trade  spread into the countryside, labor was freer in Europe.  Pomeranz, an  accomplished specialist on Chinese history, demonstrates that there was  little difference in all these important variables between China, Japan,  and Western Europe.  Indeed, in some respects, 18th century China may have  had freer labor and markets than 18th century Europe. Pomeranz takes  particular pains to attack the triumphalist notion that &quot;free  markets&quot; lead inexorably to modernization.  For Pomeranz, European  capitalism is a key to development of industrialization but only a very  particular form of capitalism unique to Europe.  This is the state  sponsored or directed capitalism that drove overseas expansion.  This  peculiar form of capitalism, not the untrammeled free market, became the  key to European imperialism and colonialism, and the development of key  capitalist institutions such as joint stock companies.  Also, the success  of this peculiar capitalism was contingent on a series of external factors  beyond European control; access to coerced labor made possible by the  existence of slavery in Africa, conquest of the Western Hemisphere made  possible by the epidemiologic advantages of Europeans, and the  establishment of transglobal trading networks created by the thirst of  China for American silver.  The uniquely and specfically European feature  is the existence of state sponsored/directed overseas expansion.  This in  turn is seen as a function of dynastic/nascent state competition within  Europe, a factor absent in China.  The actual beginning of  industrialization is attributed to the lucky availability of accessible  coal mining in Britain and the need for better water pumps leading to the  application of steam technology.<br />From the starting point that China,  Japan, and Western Europe were economically equivalent in the 18th century,  Pomeranz develops a very interesting model of normative development. He  sees China and Japan as preceding along the most likely lines of  development; increased population growth leading to tremendous pressure on  land and other resources like timber availabilty, economic stagnation,  intensification of labor to maintain food productivity, and decay of  proto-industrialization. Western Europe escaped this fate by the lucky  series of events sketched above.  Pomeranz presents a set of interesting  examples to buttress his hypotheses.  For example, Denmark, a major loser  in 17th century wars and a failure in overseas trade, followed a path  similar to that seen in Japan and China.  The Chinese state, both under the  Ming adn Qing, was expansionist but expansion was directed west into Asia  and the result was reproduction of existing zones of economic activity, not  the highly specialized colonial-core structure developed by the Atlantic  economy.<br />There are some significant deficiencies in this book.  One is  rhetorical; at no point does Pomeranz specifically and explicitly  differentiate between necessary and sufficient causes.  The reader is left  to infer Pomeranz's view of what factors are sufficient (individually,  none), what is necessary, and what has to be combined in order to produce a  Europe. Another defect is that the book reflects clearly Pomeranz's  training as a China specialist.  Simply put, despite an impressive amount  of reading, he is not nearly as knowledgeable about Europe.  There is a lot  less detail about Europe.  Partly, this is because he takes a lot of effort  to demonstrate the equivalence of China, Japan, and Western Europe in key  areas.  But, as he acknowledges at the beginning of the book, Western  Europe must have had unique features that made it possible of European  societies to seize the opportunities presented.  Expansionist capitalism is  one but the genesis of this institution is not really explored.  I suspect  also that he underestimates considerably the importance of the European  scientific and technological tradition.  Finally, in a book that emphasizes  the fortunate contingencies that led to European success, he overlooks a  really obvious fact of geography.  The Atlantic is a much narrower ocean  than the Pacific and the Western Hemisphere was more easily available to  Europe.<br />A really stimulating book.  Not the last word but the first  major installment in a major research program.to produce a  Europe. Another defect is that the book reflects clearly Pomeranz's  training as a China specialist.  Simply put, despite an impressive amount  of reading, he is not nearly as knowledgeable about Europe.  There is a lot  less detail about Europe.  Partly, this is because he takes a lot of effort  to demonstrate the equivalence of China, Japan, and Western Europe in key  areas.  But, as he acknowledges at the beginning of the book, Western  Europe must have had unique features that made it possible of European  societies to seize the opportunities presented.  Expansionist capitalism is  one but the genesis of this institution is not really explored.  I suspect  also that he underestimates considerably the importance of the European  scientific and technological tradition.  Finally, in a book that emphasizes  the fortunate contingencies that led to European success, he overlooks a  really obvious fact of geography.  The Atlantic is a much narrower ocean  than the Pacific and the Western Hemisphere was more easily available to  Europe.  <br />A really stimulating book.  Not the last word but the first  major installment in a major research program.	2000-06-03
2446472:US	50676891	R3VVM1P21O464X	0415128838	576064974	The Thirty Years' War	Books	3	38	40	N	N	Good Introduction to Complex Topic	This book is a concise introduction to the Thirty Years War.  It is written primarily by Geoffrey Parker, though he recruited expert colleagues to assist on some chapters.  Parker is a careful editor, as the book has a  uniform style and reads like a single author text.  I suspect its target  audience is advanced undergraduates, and grad students and scholars  specializing in other areas seeking an entry into the extensive literature  on the Thirty Years War.  It is not a comprehensive and detailed narrative  history.  Military history aficionados, in particular, will be disappointed  because there is little coverage of campaigns and battles.  There is,  however, a nice chapter analyzing the nature of warfare during the Thirty  Years War.  The book is devoted primarly to political history, diplomatic  history, and the structural effects of the Thirty Years War on the European  State System and the organization of individual states.  These topics are  addressed very well.  Of particular interest to the authors is the question  of why the Thirty Years War lasted so long.  Wars were very common in Early  Modern Europe both before and after this conflict but usually of shorter  duration. The answer(s) appear to be a combination of factors including  changes in military technology, the organizational immaturity of states  that precluded decisive victory, the religous dimension of the war, and  unwillingness of key actors to compromise.  Often presented as a pointless  and exhausting conflict, the Thirty Years War did produce lasting effects;  for example, the Austrian Hapsburgs would never again try to impose  hegemony on Germany.  In exchange, however, their grip on the core lands of  Austria, Bohemia, and Hungary tightened.  The alliance between the Austrian  and Spanish Hapsburgs was severed and France emerged as the preeminent  continental European Power.  One aspect that the authors slight is the  international, indeed, intercontinental aspects of the Thirty Years War.  Implicit in the narrative is the fact that events all over the world, such  as conflict between the Dutch and Spanish/Portugese in South America, and  Ottoman-Persian rivalries in the Near East had a huge impact on the Thirty  Years War.  A very attractive feature is an excellent annotated  bibliography written by Professor Parker that will take interested readers  deeper into the literature.  This book fulfills its goal of being a concise  introduction but there is still a need for a substantial narrative history  based on modern scholarship.ar.   Implicit in the narrative is the fact that events all over the world, such  as conflict between the Dutch and Spanish/Portugese in South America, and  Ottoman-Persian rivalries in the Near East had a huge impact on the Thirty  Years War.  A very attractive feature is an excellent annotated  bibliography written by Professor Parker that will take interested readers  deeper into the literature.  This book fulfills its goal of being a concise  introduction but there is still a need for a substantial narrative history  based on modern scholarship.	2000-06-02
2449095:US	50676891	R14PVIY7LFBRE6	0521479584	774582305	The Military Revolution: Military Innovation and the Rise of the West, 1500-1800	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Concise and Insightful	This relatively short work is an insightful description and analysis of changes in Military and Naval technology in Early Modern Europe.  The fundamental idea is that a constellation of changes in military and naval  technologies  and tactics produced a qualitative change in the coercive  powers of nascent European states.  These innovations had major  consequences including  major expansion in the size of armed forces and  increases in the fiscal and bureaucratic powers of states in order to  support larger and complex armies.  This toolkit of military and naval  technology provided the crucial advantages that made possible successful  European imperialism and colonialism in the pre-industrial period.  Parker  details changes in artillery capability, the development of new  fortification technology, new infantry tactics, the emergence of ships as  effective weapons platforms, the organization of armies, and the life of  soldiers.  A particularly interesting section deals with the reception of  European military technology by sophisticated non-Western states such as  China and Japan.  Strongly recommended for those interested in Early Modern  Europe.	2000-06-01
2456680:US	50676891	RG06ZKW0Z336L	0312205821	529723411	SPQR V: Saturnalia (The SPQR Roman Mysteries)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Average	This is the latest installment in a series of historical mysteries set at the end of the Roman Republic.  There are other series of this type, but this is the best because the principal character is less anachronistic than  the protagonists of other series.  Overall, this is a competent mystery  story with a decent plot.  As in other books, there is an attempt to  portray some of the unusual features of Roman life, in this case the  holiday of Saturnalia.  This book is simply not as much fun as others in  the series.	2000-05-27
2459873:US	50676891	R2FBM0YNBLTLWS	0679724834	782579528	W.H. Auden: Selected Poems	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Wonderful Book	Auden is one of the great poets of the past century and one of the greatest ever in English.  This is a particularly good collection of his work.  The editor, Edward Mendelson, is a leading Auden scholar and Auden's  literary executor.  This volume contains all of Auden's major poetry  including the great short lyrics, the major longer works, and my favorite,  the great China sonnet sequence.  In his later years, Auden altered the  text of some famous earlier poems to change wordings he felt were false.  In this edition, Mendelson uses the earlier versions of these subsequently  altered verses.  Many prefer the early versions though I find comparisons  with the amended versions published in the equally wonderful Collected  Poems, also edited by Mendelson, to be very interesting.  I am not sure  that the amended versions are worse, just different.  It contains also a  particularly insightful preface by Mendelson that does a very nice job of  putting Auden into the context of 20th century English poetry.  This is a  wonderful book for those who love Auden's work.  It can be read over and  over again.  It is also an excellent introduction for those encountering  Auden for the first time.	2000-05-25
2464797:US	50676891	RLULHHKHUJV0V	0864423705	242625838	Lonely Planet Journeys: Lost Japan	Books	3	12	14	N	N	Interesting but Incomplete Cultural Criticism	This book had an unusual origin.  The author is an expatriate American and long-time resident of Japan, and this book was written originally in Japanese for a Japanese audience.  It was translated subsequently into  English, but not by the author, who apparently found it difficult to  reformulate his book in English.  The theme of the  book is the decay of  traditional Japan.  Kerr is an aesthete, and both devoted and clearly  knowledgeable about many aspects of Japanese culture.  He is also a man who  worked for almost a decade for a large American corporation and became  knowledgeable about business.  He came to Japan in the early 70s, just as  the final remnants of traditional rural Japan were being swept away by  development.  He explores his theme from a number of angles.  Each chapter  is devoted to an aspect of traditional Japanese culture that is vanishing  or under siege; Kabuki, traditional urban architecture, rural beauty, Zen  temples, the city of Kyoto; the traditional rambunctiousness of Osaka.  These topics are explored in the form of brief memoirs of Kerr's initial  encounters with each aspect of Japanese life and/or travels in Japan.  Kerr  is a good writer and each chapter is both well constructed and contains  interesting information.  He does a very good job of conveying the unique  features of traditional Japanese culture and the rather bland,  pseudo-Western culture that has replaced it.  He is not entirely  pessimistic either; he clearly views Japanese society as possessing  considerable capacity for responding creatively to external challenges and  internal decline.  What this book lacks is a really good analysis of what  causes this phenomenon.  He identifies the conformist nature of Japanese  society as a major culprit but this is an incomplete answer.  Homogenization of culture is a worldwide phenomenon, perhaps more obvious  in Japan because of the very distinctive nature of Japanese culture.  While  the loss of traditional culture is regrettable, to some extent it is an  inevitable consequence of marked rises in the standard of living and the  erosion of a largely authoritarian, defence based society.  These are not  phenomena unique to Japan though the speed of the transition is very rapid.egrettable, to some extent it is an  inevitable consequence of marked rises in the standard of living and the  erosion of a largely authoritarian, defence based society.  These are not  phenomena unique to Japan though the speed of the transition is very rapid.	2000-05-23
2482331:US	50676891	R1J6I4QS2FDN56	0679426620	543344242	Havana Bay	Books	3	30	35	N	N	Above average mystery thriller	This is the latest installment in a series starring the Moscow investigator Arkady Renko.  For those familiar with this series, this book is most similar to the second installment, Polar Star.  Like all of Cruz  Smith's books, this is a well written and capably plotted mystery.  As with  all the books in the series, the plot involves murder, political intrigue,  and official corruption.  Neither  Havana Bay nor its two predecessors  approach the quality of the original book in the series, Gorky Park.  That  book was a particularly stylish and imaginative variation of the classic  American detective novel developed by Raymond Chandler in which the  protagonist is the only decent individual, or at least the only individual  interested in the truth, in a corrupt milieu.  In Gorky Park, Renko's  preoccupation with finding the truth makes him into a virtually heroic  figure in Soviet Moscow.  In the subsequent books, Renko appears more  passive.  This is particularly true in Havana Bay, where the suicidal  Renko's grip on life has become tenuous and his interest in the truth seems  more a matter of habit than passion.  Cruz Smith does not  apparently have  the ability to make Renko's despair realistic enough to make the  characterization compelling.  The most interesting character is Renko's  Cuban counterpart and love interest, a female detective caught in the  contradictions of her idealism and the reality of post-Cold War Cuba.  Still, this is a decent read and better than most books in this genre.	2000-05-12
2502259:US	50676891	RLSHB62KI39IL	019512958X	194219231	Brain Tumors (Contemporary Neurology Series)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Excellent, Concise Overview	This review starts with a disclaimer.  The principal author of this book, Dr. Harry Greenberg, was one of my teachers.  All the authors are my colleagues at our medical school and Dr. Greenberg and I are members of the  same department.  I would not, however, review this book if I didn't feel  that it is very good.  This is a concise and clear introduction to brain  tumors, concentrating on primary brain tumors.  This book is aimed at a  broad audience of practicing neurologists, neurosurgeons, and oncologists  who will probably encounter brain tumors in their practices.  While most  neurologists, neurosurgeons, and oncologists will probably refer care of  brain tumor patients to subspecialists like the authors of this book, we  all need to have a solid knowledge of the fundamentals of clinical  neuro-oncology.  This book provides that knowledge.  It is clearly written  and well referenced book covering primary brain tumors with a good final  chapter on metastatic disease.  Chapters are organized uniformly with key  information on pathology, clinical features, treatment and prognosis.  This  is actually a fairly difficult task because of the wide variety of brain  tumors and their distinct clinical and biologic features.  An excellent  addition to the bookshelf of any neurologist, neurosurgeon, and oncologist.	2000-05-01
2508905:US	50676891	R22IAXBE8Q5J0S	0451457803	201826021	On the Oceans of Eternity	Books	3	36	40	N	N	Not as good as predecessors	This is an entertaining book but not as good as its two predecessors.  Overall, these books are a very successful continuation of the popular subgenre pioneered in De Camp's Lest Darkness Fall in which a contemporary  American is transported to the past and changes history for the better.  There are two major defects in construction of the present book.  In the  second book in this series, Stirling expanded considerably the geographic  scope of the plot.  This is understandable; who could resist the  opportunity to play around with history in the Bronze Age Fertile Crescent  or Myceanean Greece.  Unfortunately, this meant introducing a number of  subsidiary plot lines and by this volume, the parallel plot lines have  become unwieldy and the book loses narrative coherence.  Good editing would  have been very helpful.  Stirling also sacrifices some interesting lost  opportunities; this book contains the historical equivalent of Ulysses and  some other heroes of the Trojan War.  More could have been done with these  interesting characters without introducing new plot lines.  The second  major defect is the ending of the book.  It appears that Stirling simply  couldn't figure out a good ending and the conclusion is a transparent and  largely unsatisfying effort to tie up loose ends.  Several reviewers (see  below) have commented on the schematic, pure good versus evil, nature of  the principal characters.  This is a fair but incomplete criticism.  I  suspect Stirling wished to avoid what might be termed western triumphalism.  He wished to show that introduction of modern western technology is not by  itself beneficial but only when driven by the right ideals.  Consequently,  the temporal transposition of Nantucket produces two offspring, the  democratic and pragmatically idealistic Republic of Nantucket itself, and  William Walker's Greek empire, a Stalinist state with the addition of  chattel slavery.  The latter is located, not coincidentally, in what would  later become known as Sparta, the original totalitarian state. This is an  attempt to be more intellectually honest than most books in this subgenre.  Despite flaws, this is a superior and well researched entertainment with  considerably more real intellectual content than most popular fiction.  Stirling also has left open the door to sequels.  These would be welcome  but should be written more carefully than this book.ecome known as Sparta, the original totalitarian state. This is an  attempt to be more intellectually honest than most books in this subgenre.   Despite flaws, this is a superior and well researched entertainment with  considerably more real intellectual content than most popular fiction.   Stirling also has left open the door to sequels.  These would be welcome  but should be written more carefully than this book.	2000-04-28
2523751:US	50676891	R2FVA9HAU4HKN4	0385474989	952882023	The Culture of Disbelief: How American Law and Politics Trivialize Religious Devotion	Books	3	33	35	N	N	Interesting Polemic	This is a well written attack on the treatment of religion in American political and legal life.  Carter attempts to show that religous motivations are disparaged in many aspects of American public life.  He is  particularly concerned with convincing individuals with liberal political  views that religious motivations, per se, are not harmful or irrational.  Carter's points are not, however, aimed solely at a liberal audience.  He  attacks our legal system, including the Supreme Court, for inadequate  defense of minor religions, and excoriates conservative Christians for  justifying a highly partisan political agenda.  To Carter, religons  function best as mediators between individuals and government and he sees  them as essential components of civil society. He sees religions as  carrying forward this function best when acting in a dissenting mode, such  as abolitionism, the Civil Rights Movement, and the anti-abortion movement.  One difficulty with this book is that it is relatively brief.  This allows  Carter to make a number of points in a relatively short text and Carter's  writing is never curt.  The defect is that a number of important issues  receive somewhat unsatisfactory treatment.  I was unconvinced, for example,  by some of his treatment of creationism as an &quot;alternative  hermeneutic&quot;.  Several of the topics in this book really deserve  longer discussion.  Still, this book was written to provoke thought and it  is very successful in that respect.  It is important to note that this is  not a defense of conservative Christian views a al Pat Robertson.  Carter  is deeply religous (Episcopalian, not Catholic as stated in one of the  reviews below) and rather liberal in his political beliefs.	2000-04-20
2527799:US	50676891	R3JZHXNGMLY69C	0198150903	482957795	The Roman Army at War 100 BC - AD 200 (Oxford Classical Monographs)	Books	3	44	46	N	N	Very Good and Iconoclastic	There is a large literature on the Roman Army.  As Goldsworthy points out, much of it is flawed by an idealized view of Roman soldiery and anachronistic interpretations.  Inspired somewhat by Keegan's pioneering  &quot;The Face of Battle&quot;, Goldsworthy sets out to review the evidence  critically in an effort to reconstruct how the Roman Army was organized and  was the experience of service for both commanders and rankers.  His use of  sources is excellent and he is very careful not to over interpret the data.  This work is based clearly on an excellent knowledge of Roman history.  Interested readers should be aware that this is specialist monograph,  written with an audience of scholars in mind.  To understand the text fully  you need a good basic knowledge of Roman history.  Acquaintance with prior  works on the Roman army is very helpful.	2000-04-17
2540287:US	50676891	R2O2OTMHYGR3O	0582089204	632949901	The Origins of the First World War (Origins of Modern Wars)	Books	3	18	22	N	N	Very Good Overview	This is a concise and well written introduction to the history and historiography of the 1st World War.  Joll does an excellent job of reviewing the opening of the war and the background of the European  diplomatic system.  He then presents a series of critical chapters  reviewing the some of the proposed causes of the war including imperial  rivalries, capitalist competition, and domestic political needs.  Joll is  judicious and evenhanded in his analysis and leaves readers with the  conclusion that there was not one or even a few causes of the war.  Instead, readers gain a clear picture of the complexities and instability  of European society prior to the war.	2000-04-10
2540525:US	50676891	R3TJUGPX7B887M	0375406425	123472120	Crucible of War: The Seven Years' War and the Fate of Empire in British North America, 1754-1766	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Excellent Narrative, Excellent Analysis	Prof. Anderson set high goals for this book.  He aimed to produce a book that is attractive to general readers and a significant scholarly contribution.  To accomplish the latter, he aimed at writing a history of  the Seven Years War in North America that avoids the anachronistic pitfall  of viewing it from the prespective of the American Revolution.  Similarly,  he aimed at giving just coverage to the imperial dimension of the War and  all combatants; French, Canadians, Colonial Americans, British, and Native  Americans.  In addition to these ambitious goals, simply writing a  substantial book on the Seven Years War requires some courage.  This topic  was covered masterfully by the pioneering scholar, Francis Parkman, in one  of the peaks of 19th century American literature, and is analyzed in depth  by the great 20th century scholar, Lawrence Gipson.  Anderson accomplishes  all his aims in a smoothly written and comprehensive volume.  This is  simply an excellent book.  Prof. Anderson is remarkably erudite, as  comfortable describing British politics as he is in analyzing the activity  of Native Americans.  Because of a lively  writing style, this book is  never ponderous.  Several points deserve specific mention.  Drawing on a  wealth of recent scholarship, he emphasizes the role of Native Americans as  independent and important actors in this conflict.  He is particularly good  at setting the North American conflict in the appropriate global  perspective.  To Anderson, the Seven Years War was an epochal event that  formed the basis for Britain's subsequent Empire and set stage for the  American and consequently, the French Revolutions.  While he avoids seeing  the Seven Years War through the prism of the American Revolution, he is  very good at showing the ways that the experience of the Seven Years, both  as experienced by the British and by the Colonials, set the stage for later  conflicts.  Interestingly, his conclusions on this topic are very similar  to those reached by scholars who work backwards from the Revolution, for  example, Robert Middlekauf in The Glorious Cause, part of the excellent  Oxford History of the United States.  This book required over 15 years of  effort and it was time well spent.se reached by scholars who work backwards from the Revolution, for  example, Robert Middlekauf in The Glorious Cause, part of the excellent  Oxford History of the United States.  This book required over 15 years of  effort and it was time well spent.	2000-04-10
2540701:US	50676891	R34J5XOU3NRL5H	0441865054	210527148	Vision of Stephen	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Charming Short Fantasy Novel	This short book has been out of print for years but paperback copies can be found often in used bookstores.  An interesting time travel novel with themes of family loyalty, honesty, and real moral dilemmas.  Set in both  Anglo-Saxon and early 19th century Britain, the author does a nice job of  illuminating largely unknown periods.  Much better than most contemporary  fantasy novels and well worth a few dollars.	2000-04-10
2540981:US	50676891	RBK5GV38BXCH7	0674002113	462900019	Many Thousands Gone: The First Two Centuries of Slavery in North America	Books	4	45	51	N	N	Nuanced Analysis of Important Topic	To most Americans, including most scholars, slavery in the USA is usually thought of as chattel slavery associated with the plantation economies of the Antebellum South.  This is a book on slavery in North America in the  two centuries prior to the antebellum period.  Berlin takes pains to  present slavery over this extended period of time as historically dynamic  and regionally diverse.  Berlin is excellent at showing how changes in the  Atlantic economy, political events such as the American Revolution, and  international diplomacy all contributed to changes in the world experienced  by slaves and slaveholders.  This is true history from below emphasizing  the experience of slaves.  Berlin is particularly good at exploring the  rich regional diversity of the slave experience in North America.  This  will simply be the standard book on this topic for decades to come. Written  with grace, some passion, and an excellent bibliography.	2000-04-10
2541304:US	50676891	R1UKO44U3NA2MO	068485421X	760699933	In Search of Deep Time: Beyond the Fossil Record to a New History of Life	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Very Good Introduction to Cladistics	This is a concise introduction to cladistics, a method of taxonomic classification that emphasizes evolutionary relationships.  Because this method involves fewer assumptions than traditional and somewhat  impressionistic paleontologic reconstruction, it is narrower but more  powerful.  Gee emphasizes how cladistic methods have put paleontology on a  scientific footing and emphasizes equally the limitations of this method  and the ultimate limitations of our ability to reconstruct the history of  life.  This book is also a nice story about how science is done and how  change occurs in scientific communities.	2000-04-10
2546761:US	50676891	R2FAVQDTFY0CGY	0520208986	82583158	On Heidegger's Nazism and Philosophy	Books	4	24	26	N	N	Provocative Criticism of Heidegger	This well written and closely argued book is a stringent criticism of Heidegger's philosophy and its relation to his notorious embrace of Nazism.  Rockmore argues that Heidegger's involvement with the Nazis was hardly the  result of personal quirks or coercion but rather a product of his  philosophical preoccupations.  Rockmore bases his conclusions on a careful  reading of the relevant texts, analysis of the main features of Heidegger's  thought, and relevant historical background.  For example, while Heidegger  liked to present his thought as a recovery of the insights of pre-Socratic  Greek thinkers, Rockmore shows that Heidegger was influenced by the racist  and anti-rationalist Volkish ideologies prevalent in Germany.  Rockmore's  case is well argued and others, notably Heidegger's recent biographer,  Rudiger Safranski, reach identical conclusions. It is clear as well that  Heidegger abandoned overt Nazism not because of any real ethical concerns  but rather because the Nazis would not accomodate Heidegger's ideas for how  German society and education should be run.  This book also contains  damning criticism of the individuals who have defended Heidegger; including  members of Heidegger's family who have apparently restricted access to  potentially damaging documents; Heidegger's disciples, some of whom have  attempted remarkable ways to explain away Heidegger's Nazism; and a number  of other philosophers who seem to be unable to stomach the fact that the  person they trumpet as the great thinker of the 20th century was a Nazi.  Heidegger emerges as a brilliant and remarkably egotistical man inhumanly  dedicated to the pursuit of a small set of ideas, some of which may be  great insights, but literally careless of human rights, human dignity, and  the physical suffering of the great majority of humanity.  One criticism of  Rockmore's book is that Rockmore, though usually very careful with  terminology, is sloppy about use of the term Nazi.  Rockmore argues that  Heidegger, after his withdrawal from overt Nazism, remained dedicated to an  &quot;ideal Nazism&quot;.  It would be better to restrict the use of term  Nazism to the actual acts and (often contradictory) programs of the Nazis.  As Rockmore shows clearly, Heidegger was preoccupied throughout his life  with ideas that were anti-humanist, anti-democratic, and Volkish in  character.  This puts Heidegger in the same general category as the Nazis  but referring to &quot;ideal Nazism&quot; is a bit confusing.at  Heidegger, after his withdrawal from overt Nazism, remained dedicated to an  &quot;ideal Nazism&quot;.  It would be better to restrict the use of term  Nazism to the actual acts and (often contradictory) programs of the Nazis.   As Rockmore shows clearly, Heidegger was preoccupied throughout his life  with ideas that were anti-humanist, anti-democratic, and Volkish in  character.  This puts Heidegger in the same general category as the Nazis  but referring to &quot;ideal Nazism&quot; is a bit confusing.	2000-04-07
2579885:US	50676891	RJ5JL1SFOHNJF	0679730052	754470002	The Age of Extremes: A History of the World, 1914-1991	Books	4	46	52	N	N	Insightful overview	This is a really impressive performance by this distinguished historian.  Hobsbawm seems to know everything about the 20th century, has actually  lived through most of it and writes from the combined perspective of a  remarkably accomplished scholar and direct observer of events.  Readers  should be aware that this book is a sequel to his impressive trilogy on the  19th century, The Age or Revolution, The Age of Capital, and The Age of  Empire.  In those books, Hobsbawm followed two key themes, the impact of  industrial capitalism on European and world history, and the persistence  through the 19th century of the revolutionary tradition that begins with  the French Revolution.  Readers should be aware also that this book is not  a convential narrative overview but follows these major themes with  considerable analysis.  Some readers (see some reviews below) are put off  by Hobsbawm's marxian (not the same as Marxist) approach.  This approach,  however, is a powerful tool for making sense of the complexities of the  past century.  Hobsbawm is an avowed Marxist but his work is not  doctrinaire in any sense.  In this book, for example, he remarks that the  19th century really was a century of progress, both material and moral.  Not the statement of a doctrinaire leftist.  His erudition is remarkable  but not showy and employed only as needed to carry forward his narrative  and analysis. This book is never boring, always compelling and challenging.  The focus of this book is very much on Europe and North America.  Hobsbawm  is explicitly, unashamedly, and appropriately 'eurocentric' in his emphasis  on these regions as the key theatres for the actions of 20th century  history.  The best  overviews of complex historical topics combine  narrative with thematic analysis as a way of unifying the narrative. See,  for example, Patterson's recent Grand Expectations, an overview of recent  American history in which the quest for rights by traditionally  disadvantaged groups is treated as a unifying theme of our recent past.  The Age of Extremes is a remarkable combination of  narration and analysis  that illuminates the darkness of the past century.s treated as a unifying theme of our recent past.   The Age of Extremes is a remarkable combination of  narration and analysis  that illuminates the darkness of the past century.	2000-03-24
2603069:US	50676891	R13KD5WOBAX06	0684846179	306559860	Big Trouble: A Murder in a Small Western Town Sets Off a Struggle for the Soul of America	Books	3	6	11	N	N	Interesting But Lacks Focus	The stated goal of this sprawling book is to explore class conflict in America.  In a previous book, Lukas found class and racial distinctions to be so tightly interwined that teasing out the effects of class was  difficult.  Lukas turned to Progressive Era America, a period of naked  class conflict, to explore this theme.  To organize his book he uses the  trial of several labor leaders for the murder of an ex-governor of Idaho,  the first of several 'trials of the century', as the unifying narrative  element.  Unfortunately, this device is not employed successfully.  The  trial is described in great detail with many, many digressions along the  way.  While individually interesting, these digressions tend to overwhelm  the main narrative and obscure the central themes of the book.  I suspect  that Lukas became interested in providing a panoramic view of Progressive  Era America, at considerable cost to analysis of the ostensible central  themes of the book.  Lukas did a remarkable amount of research, and cites  an array of primary sources.  Unfortunately, he doesn't grapple explicitly  with the issues of class and why individuals chose their particular sides  in the class conflicts of the day.  This book would have benefited from  vigorous editing and much more analysis.  Lukas clearly read but did not  apparently assimilate the extensive secondary literature on the Progressive  Era.  This is a pity because much of this literature deals insightfully  with the very questions that apparently prompted him to pursue this topic.  This is an unusual situation where the audience would have been served  better by less use of primary sources and greater reliance on existing  scholarship.	2000-03-09
2651767:US	50676891	R1JBC6P8H0X4B0	039330700X	860991951	Wonderful Life: The Burgess Shale and the Nature of History	Books	3	36	45	N	N	Unwittingly Revealing	This is a very enjoyable and unintentionally revealing book by the prolific Gould.  As pointed out by other reviewers (see below), in some respects this is a melding of 2 books.  One book is the story of the  discovery and re-interpretation of the Pre-Cambrian fossils of the Burgess  Shale formation.  This is a very interesting and winning story which Gould  presents very well.  The second book is a less successful and somewhat  muddled attempt to investigate the nature of history and scientific  inquiry.  Gould is a follower of the late Thomas Kuhn, the very influential  historian of science who claimed that science progressed by discontinuous  leaps in theory driven by external, that is, cultural or subjective forces.  I suspect that Gould intended to write the story of the recent  interpretation of the Burgess Shale fossils as an example of Kuhnian  progression.  Instead, he found an example of progress via conventional  modes of incremental progress driven by technical innovation and internal  scientific questions.  This is an example of what Kuhn somewhat  dismissively termed normal science and how the great majority of  scientists, and some philosophers, view scientific progress. I think that  Gould couldn't digest this contradiction of his preconceptions and  consequently made a hash of a good part of the book.  Readers should be  aware that some of Gould's interpretations, which were held by others at  the time the book was written, such as the notion that the Pre-Cambrian  fauna displayed a greater variety of body plans than contemporary animals,  have been shown to be wrong.  Readers interested by this volume and wishing  a more up to date and technical account might look at Simon Conway Morris'  more recent book.	2000-02-01
2684411:US	50676891	R20BZNFUT10PNE	0465045219	200270487	Mind, Language And Society: Philosophy In The Real World (Masterminds)	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Excellent Summary of Searle's Work	This is a typically clear and compelling book from this distinguished philosopher.  It is an excellent summary of Searle's work and can be read profitably by those unfamiliar with his books.  Readers familiar with  Searle will find little novel but Searle's effort to link his views into a  coherent whole is very interesting and worth reading.  In this book Searle  is concerned not only with describing and synthesizing his prior work but  also with illustrating his approach to philosophical problems.  This  approach can be best seen in his discussion of consciousness.  Searle  attacks this problem by attempting to give an account that seems to take  known facts as a point of departure and avoids use of traditional  categories of analysis, such as casting the problem in the form of the  mind-body problem.  This section is particularly successful and can be read  easily as a stand alone document.  I believe the sections on challenges to  realism and the construction of social reality are also particularly good  and can also be used readily as stand alone documents.  Another issue very  important to Searle is clarity of presentation, and this work, like his  prior books, is very well written.  At one point in this book Searle  mentions that he is working on a new book on rationality.  There is no one  better qualified to study this subject.	2000-01-10
2689142:US	50676891	R2K37PNQXZ86G9	0691012067	527659211	Quantum Generations	Books	4	46	49	N	N	Excellent Overview of a Difficult Topic	This is an admirable and well written survey of the development of physics in the last century.  Kragh deals with a number of related and interesting topics; the emergence of relativity and quantum theory, growth of American  physics, and development of whole new fields of physics such as cosmology,  nuclear and solid state physics.  Kragh deals with these areas in a series  of chronologically overlapping chapters, which is probably the best way of  organizing the book.  Topics are dealt with concisely but thoroughly with  the internal history of physics leavened by sociological and appropriate  general historical background.  This is really an impressive book.  To  understand this book, however, you need to know some physics and chemistry,  at least to the level of introductory college courses.  Most natural  scientists will be able to read this book readily but it will be beyond the  general public and most historians.  Still, the narrative and general  conclusions are presented clearly and this book will be a basic source of  information about 20th century science. A particularly interesting aspect  of this book is that Kragh challenges the late Thomas Kuhn's view of the  history of 20th physics.  Kuhn's very influential book, The Structure of  Scientific Revolutions, based largely on the history of early 20th century  physics, has had a broad impact on philosophy of science and general  culture.  Kuhn presented a model, which he suggested generalized to science  as a whole, of progress by saltatory revolutions in theory, often driven by  subjective or cultural forces.  This model has served as a basis for  criticism of the nature of science and is cited as evidence of the  non-objective nature of scientific knowledge.  Kragh views 20th century  physics as being much more incremental in nature and sees deep continuity  in physics from the 1890s to the present.  In Kragh's view, the pattern of  20th century physics is much closer to what Kuhn describes as incremental  &quot;normal science&quot; than the revolutions Kuhn saw as necessary to  major developments.  Kragh's analysis is impressive and he sustains his  arguments with a much broader and deeper scholarly discussion than Kuhn's  relatively short book.  While Kuhn's model remains fascinating, I think  that Kragh is correct.tal  &quot;normal science&quot; than the revolutions Kuhn saw as necessary to  major developments.  Kragh's analysis is impressive and he sustains his  arguments with a much broader and deeper scholarly discussion than Kuhn's  relatively short book.  While Kuhn's model remains fascinating, I think  that Kragh is correct.	2000-01-07
2699470:US	50676891	R2IC3N1LDME1RT	068486214X	889208740	The Worldly Philosophers: The Lives, Times And Ideas Of The Great Economic Thinkers, Seventh Edition	Books	3	25	29	N	N	Readable Overview of Major Economic Theorists	This is the latest edition of this popular book.  Potential readers need to be clear what this book is and just as important, is not.  This is not a systematic history of economic thought or an introduction to economics.  This is a basic overview of the ideas of a number of important economic  theorists and the backgrounds against which their ideas emerged.  Heilbroner is a good writer with an eye for telling anecdotes.  He has  considerable mastery of source material and is even handed in discussing  his subjects.  A recurrent theme is the way in which each important  thinkers' ideas reflected the experience of capitalism in his time.  Some  chapters are better than others.  I liked particularly the chapter on Marx  which does a nice job of discussing the strengths and weaknesses of Marx's  analysis.  I would personally prefer a more demanding and systematic book  but as a very readable and entertaining introduction, this book can't be  beat.  An excellent volume for an intellectually curious high school  student or undergraduate.	1999-12-31
2703540:US	50676891	R2VBDM1SMS56DP	0312868596	553767846	Deep Secret	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Enjoyable Fantasy Novel	This is an entertaining book from the prolific Diana Wynne Jones.  Set in her multiverse universe, a set of parallel worlds with varying predominance of magic and/or science.  This universe is influenced by Magids, powerful  magicians charged with the task of acting as benign guardians of different  worlds.  This novel concerns a succesion crisis on one set of worlds, the  search for a replacement Magid on Earth, and a set of complex shennigans at  a Science Fiction Conference on Earth.  This is an entertaining and  generally humorous novel.  This is not, however, the strongest of Wynne  Jones' books. Readers expecting something as good as The Spellcoats or  Dogsbody will be somewhat disappointed.	1999-12-28
2703799:US	50676891	R2J2AXJIJBZ2DZ	1858284554	643373533	The Rough Guide to English Football, 1st Edition: A Fans' Handbook (Rough Guides)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Entertaining and Thorough Guide	This is a thorough and surprisingly entertaining guide to clubs in the Football League in England.  All entries contain good information about travel, seating, handicapped access, websites, and other useful travel  information.  Each entry contains an entertaining short history of the  clubs.  I suspect football fans will find these histories a good brief  reference source.	1999-12-28
2706738:US	50676891	RGVZSU59JYT2Y	0312870558	930510576	Souls in the Great Machine (Greatwinter Trilogy)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Excellent Future History	This entertaining book is set in Australia approximately 2 millenia from now.  A post-nuclear winter world, Australia resembles a combination of Renaissance Italy and Medieval Spain, only with giant heliographic  signalling towers and wind powered railroads.  Further technological  development is blocked by a number of factors too complex to explain.  The  leading character, a woman of scientific and political genius, perceives a  threat to civilization.  Centuries earlier, during human civilization's  technological apogee, concern about the greenhouse effect had resulted in  the start of a project to develop a sun shield around the Earth.  Constructed by self perpetuating automata, the sun shield is nearing  completion.  Deployment of the sun shield would result in another ice age.  The heroine has to find a way to stop this, apparently without use of  electricity or even steam power.  Her first step is to develop a computer,  which she does by use of relays of humans with abaci (a device used in one  of Arthur Clarke's stories).  From this innovation follows a series of  scientific, technological, and political revolutions, delineated well in  the course of following the main plot line.  This book is written well  despite a series of plot lines and a number of characters.  An ambitious  and enjoyable book.	1999-12-25
2709582:US	50676891	RMZMH9OG4U2RL	0670885959	316534633	River of Darkness: A Novel of Suspense	Books	4	27	29	N	N	Superior Police Procedural	Historically based crime novels are popular.  This is one of the best of this subgenre.  Set in the more contemporary but still unfamiliar world of post-WW1 England, this book combines the police procedural with elements of  the psychological crime novel.  The story is told from both the prespective  of the police and a psychopathic, but capable, serial killer.  The period  detail is convincing.  The characters are drawn well, the plotting is  superior, and the quality of writing very good. A very enjoyable book.  I  look forward to the sequel.	1999-12-22
2717010:US	50676891	R2M8MDCNOGUTJH	0253211719	483122627	The Great War, 1914-1918	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Informative and Concise Overview of WWI	This is a well done introduction to WWI.  This brief book covers the outbreak of war, all the major operations, the technology of warfare, the peace settlement, and touches on the political and social history of the  war.  It is written in a clear and unadorned, at times, telegraphic style,  has adequate maps, and a very nice bibliography.  This book is a good  choice for anyone seeking an accurate overview of WWI and looking for a  good entry into the extensive literature on this subject.  My only  criticisms are that the author could have included some text on the  experience of combat in WWI and that the bibliography be annotated.  These  are relatively minor flaws in a very good book.  It is interesting to  compare this book to John Keegan's ballyhoed book on the same topic.  This  is definitely the better book.  Tucker's book contains all the substantial  information in Keegan's book plus considerable additional valuable  information, better maps and a more extensive bibliography.  This book is  also half as long as Keegan's book.  An excellent performance by Professor  Tucker.	1999-12-16
2717825:US	50676891	R2KKCL7P7BWPGM	0375400524	841119426	The First World War	Books	2	15	22	N	N	Review Addendum	I reviewed this book previously and did not like it (see below).  I just finished a competing volume, The Great War, by Spencer C. Tucker.  The Tucker book is half as long and superior in all respects to Keegan's book.  Readers searching for a good introduction to WWI should go to Tucker's  book.	1999-12-16
2722876:US	50676891	RE7HDXKJNAFU7	0812548221	258892911	Of Tangible Ghosts (Ghost trilogy)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Clever Idea, Poor execution	This book is based on a clever melding of genres; alternative history, fantasy, and suspense thriller.  The alternate history dimension is the setting in an alternate world where North America is split among Quebec,  New France (Mexico in our timeline) and Dutch-founded equivalent of the  USA, and Europe is dominated by a ruthless Austro-Hungarian Empire.  The  fantasy dimension is that ghosts exist, a reality something like the  Eqyptian Ka, and can be manipulated by electromagnetic fields.  The  existence of ghosts is responsible largely for the historical divergences  between this history and ours.  The suspense thriller aspect is the plot.  Unfortunately, while the basic idea is clever, this book is disappointing  reading.  The plot is rather mechanical, the characterization is thin, and  the writing pedestrian.	1999-12-12
2730157:US	50676891	RJHCN0M2DUPYY	0061054887	758428577	The Dispossessed (Hainish Cycle)	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	Best Utopian Novel in English	This is a wonderful book, the best utopian novel written in English. The only comparable book is Zamyatin's We. The quality of writing is splendid.  Set in a planetary system with 2 competing societies, a conventional  capitalistic society on one planet and an anarchist utopia on its companion  moon.  The hero is a visionary scientist, a scientific revolutionary  committed deeply to the ideals of his anarchist society.  This book is one  of the few that deals well with the issue of social obligations of  scientists.  It is a shrewd and often moving analysis of the necessity and  costs of pursuing noble ideals and the obstinacy of human nature in the  face of ideology.  This is one of those genre works whose quality trascends  its genre.	1999-12-07
2733468:US	50676891	RTJULO3U6GMV8	0803667841	433256249	Multiple Sclerosis (Contemporary Neurology Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Excellent Textbook on a Complex Subject	Edited by 2 prominent MS researchers, and written largely by a group of Canadian specialists in Multiple Sclerosis, this book draws on the broad clinical knowledge and research of the authors. The book is focused on  clinical issues; diagnosis, clinical signs, natural history, interpretation  of clinical trial data, and pathology.  This book is designed to be a text  and reference volume for general neurology practicioners.  In that role, it  is very successful.  It is equally good as a comprehensive review/critique  of the available MS literature and the chapters all contain extensive  bibliographies.  The quality of writing is very good and there are no weak  chapters, a tribute to the skill and perseverance of the editors.  I  recommend this book to all neurologists.	1999-12-05
2733543:US	50676891	R3TY7P72VNSWKK	0812545567	360372545	The Helix and the Sword	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Deserves to be Reprinted	This is a very interesting, and in many ways presicient, work of science fiction. The author created a compelling future world based on genetic engineering well before these ideas were common.  He incorporated religous  and mythic elements into the story in a particularly creative manner.  The  writing is very good. This book is a fine combination of technological  extrapolation and story telling.  The best comparisons I can think of for  this book, and this is a considerable compliment, are books of Arthur  Clarke's such as the City and the Stars.  If you are a science fiction fan,  and find a copy of this book, buy it and read it.	1999-12-05
2734745:US	50676891	R3A32IBWZAHGA9	0375400524	841119426	The First World War	Books	2	38	48	N	N	Disappointing	This is a solid overview of the military history of WWWI.  It is not a history of WWI.  Keegan does a good job of reviewing the major campaigns and summarizes operations well.  There is no description or analysis,  however, of the major social or political changes that occurred during the  war, and relatively little on the experience of combat.  His analysis, as  opposed to description of the outbreak of the war, is embarassing.  There  has to be better conclusion than lack of rapid communications, though this  may have been a contributing factor.  There are other disappointing  features.  There are relatively few maps, and in an operational history,  this is a major defect.  The bibliography is scanty considering the huge  literature on this subject and an essential feature of any good one volume  history of a major subject is an extensive bibliography and interpretative  bibliographic essay on the secondary literature.  For example, see the  bibliographies in any volume of the outstanding Oxford History of the  United States.  Keegan does relatively well on the Eastern Front campaigns,  which tend to be obscured by the huge literature on the Western Front, but  his coverage of the critical Atlantic submarine conflicts is poor.  Writing  a one volume history of WWI would be very difficult, but Keegan had not  even come close to doing a satisfactory job.  For comparison, see the  shorter but insightful book by the French scholar Marc Ferro, which does a  much better job of providing an overview of the conflict, its causes, and  its aftermath.  Keegan's book is the work on a man living on his  reputation.	1999-12-03
2739465:US	50676891	RG54544XQ3AVM	0312865430	259905454	The Shadow of Ararat: Book One of 'The Oath of Empire'	Books	3	0	3	N	N	Good Potboiler	Reasonably well done historical fantasy in which magic is real and christianity does not exist.	1999-11-30
