2183856:US	50718004	R1Y8JDSSRVWFXW	0860686116	833435079	Liza's England	Books	3	20	23	N	N	Endless Cups of Tea	This was my first Pat Barker novel and I have to admit, that while I found it quite uneven, I did find parts of it quite charming as well.<br />Barker seems intent on investigating the end of a woman's life in The Century's Daughter and, in this respect, she does an admirable job.  Set in working-class northern England, The Century's Daughter is not a provincial book, however, but seeks to embrace the grand tradition of political fiction instead.<br />Set in 1984-85, the book deals with the final year in the life of its protagonist, Liza Wright, who is the same age as the century, almost to the second.  In this sense, The Century's Daughter is reminiscent of Salman Rushdie's Mignight's Children, a book that follows the lives of a group of babies born at the stroke of midnight on the day of India's independence.  While Midnight's Children, however, focused on the politics of Indira Ghandi, The Century's Daughter focuses on the politics of Margaret Thatcher, a woman Liza is vehemently trying to forget.<br />One of the things I found most charming about this otherwise flawed book was the fact that Barker wisely eschewed any attempt at glamour, fast-paced adventure, wealth, adultery and all the other trappings that many readers of today's &quot;commercial&quot; fiction seem to demand.  This is a book about the beauty inherent in everyday life, and that is, to its enormous credit, one of the story's strongest points.<br />Liza, who is now eighty-four, lives with her old parrot, Nelson, a mere four miles from where she was born, in the ramshackle row house she has occupied since 1922.  Decrepit, unsafe and surrounded by the squalid Clagg Lane housing project, Liza's home is now scheduled to be torn down.  This sets the stage for the entrance of Stephen, a twenty-nine year old social worker who is sent to persuade the very reluctant Liza to move into a nursing home.<br />The conflict centers on Liza's recalcitrance.  When Stephen tells her she would have other elderly people around her in the nursing home, Liza tartly tells him that people her age don't make friends.<br />Predictably, Liza remains in her row house and she and Stephen become the best of friends.  Liza's story is engrossing and it does reflect the century's own misfortunes.  Liza Wright has lived an English working woman's life with all its attendant restrictions and woes.  The daughter of an angry mother who bore a total of fifteen children, Liza seeks an early escape from her life at the age of seventeen.  It is an escape, however, that doesn't lead exactly where she expects it to.<br />Although Liza, herself, can, at times, be a persnickety but charming elderly woman, The Century's Daughter is more often than not filled with dreary stuff:  babies being born into misery and squalor; elderly people dying alone and in filth; the all-pervading dampness so redolent in northern England; the endless cups of tea meant to ward off the chill.  To her enormous credit, Barker tells her story with vibrancy, optimism and life.  So much so, that Liza, despite her precarious health and dreary circumstances, is a much more optimistic character than is Stephen, who is really not fully-fleshed out.<br />Despite his rather wooden quality, it is Stephen who is bestowed with the book's most poignant moment as he attempts to find a working phone when his father, Walter, is hospitalized.<br />I found the writing in The Century's Daughter to be rather uneven at best and jarring at worst.  At times, Barker seemed to be rushing her story and at other times she seemed to gloss over things we wanted to know more about.  Many of the book's scenes are arbitrary and the ending, in particular, is totally out of keeping with what went before.  <br />The Century's Daughter has its moments, few though they are, and the best thing about it, I think, is the author's unbridled energy and enthusiasm.  While I would not really recommend this particular book, I definitely would not write Barker off.  She isobviously a woman with talent.	2000-12-07
2187977:US	50718004	R1OEPQ1HLJ7PSR	0060194618	899090623	Mondo Desperado: A Serial Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Desperate World Indeed	Irish writer, Patrick McCabe seems to be someone whose work you either love or hate with no in between.  Anyone who has enjoyed his other books, such as The Butcher Boy, Breakfast on Pluto or The Dead School, is going to love Mondo Desperado.  The uninitiated are going to be in for a surprise with McCabe's highly distinctive voice and style.  It is black comedy with a capital &quot;B,&quot; but it is black comedy of the highest order.  In Mondo Desperado, McCabe builds on his earlier themes of life in the rural Irish borderlands.  This book, set in the fictional town of Barntrosna, is the perfect vehicle for McCabe to showcase his ironic observations of the modern-day world.<br />The narrator of Mondo Desperado, which is structured like a series of short stories, is Phildy Hackball who takes us on a tour of Barntrosna.  Although Phildy describes his major interests as being the cinema and drinking with his friends, his real passion lies in writing weird and wonderful stories based on his own unique observations of the residents of Barntrosna.    With Hackball as narrator, McCabe allows himself carte blanche to let his absurdly comic imagination run wild.  The results are dark, surreal, hilarious and outrageous.  The tone of Mondo Desperado is in perfect keeping with its absurd subject matter.  Hackball is a narrator who is never afraid of taking the liberty of using ten adjectives to describe something when one would have done very nicely.  He gives us a view of life that is nothing less than a surrealistic riot, a panoply of color and activity concealed beneath the facade of the average Irish town.<br />It is this very absurdity of the mundane and the ordinary that gives McCabe his unique vision of the world and sets his work apart from that of other writers.  Although the events described in Mondo Desperado are surrealistic in the extreme, each one is firmly rooted in reality.  We begin by identifying with the characters so completely and then McCabe, in his genius, takes them to the blackest reaches of their soul and inflicts upon them the most terrible and bizarre of circumstances.  These stories of a stifling, oppressive society, of overbearing mothers and hard drinking fathers, of hormonally-crazed young people driven slightly insane are, frighteningly, only a small step away from the world in which each of us lives our day-to-day life.<br />This is McCabe's unique talent and it is a talent he has developed to the fullest.  He can make us laugh out loud and, at the same time, make us take a serious look at our prejudices, our stereotypes, our beliefs, our lives.  Mondo Desperado is a book that deserves to be read by lovers of black comedy, lovers of good literature and anyone with an interest in modern-day rural Ireland.  It is a wild roller coaster ride to the very edge of consciousness through a desperate world, indeed.	2000-12-04
2189102:US	50718004	RMKYO4KZD4Y8H	0060987103	816790174	Wicked: The Life and Times of the Wicked Witch of the West	Books	5	40	49	N	N	The Darker Side of the Rainbow	In Wicked:  The Life and Times of the Wicked Witch of the West, Gregory Maguire has written a novel that deals with the life of Elphaba, an emerald-green skinned young woman who was born into the family of a preacher and his wife in Munchkinland.  Elphaba's family are not Munchkinlanders, however, and Elphaba grows up knowing more than she ever wanted to know about persecution and alienation.  As a result, she becomes somewhat introverted, rebellious and yes, a little wicked.<br />When we all root for Dorothy as she triumphs over the Wicked Witch of the West in Frank Baum's Oz tales, we seem to forget that we are only hearing Dorothy's side of the story.  There is more to Elphaba than wickedness and Maguire proves it as he chronicles Elphaba's odyssey through the land of Oz.<br />What makes Wicked such a special book is the fact that Maguire has written a story that challenges our preconceived notions of what, exactly, is good and what, exactly, is evil, with the character of Elphaba at the heart of the matter.  Although Dorothy does make an appearance near the end of the book, it really isn't necessary to know anything about her or the Baum stories to understand and appreciate Wicked.<br />In Wicked, we follow the life of Elphaba as we learn what shaped her personality, what it really means to be a witch and how things are not always as we think them to be or even as we want them to be.  The characters in Wicked are fully-fleshed out and believable.  Besides Elphaba, there is her university roommate, Glinda; Boq, the lovelorn Munchkin; Fiyero, a tribal prince from the primitive West of Oz; and Nessarose, Elphaba's beautiful and witchy sister.<br />The fantasy elements in Wicked are actually quite light; this is no book for children and it even runs the risk of becoming overburdened by the weighty issues it seeks to tackle.  Maguire could have let this book slip into nothing more than a sappy view of the technologies and magic that pervade the land of Oz.  Instead,he wisely chose to focus on the people, instead and he has created characters that are vibrant, strong and full of life.<br />Maguire's Oz is no Utopia and Elphaba is more than just a green-skinned witch.  She is a woman who has become wise through the mechanations of guilt and sorrow and one who is, surprisingly, actually happy to meet the young girl from Kansas who eventually shows up at her door.<br />Wicked is more than satire; it is an imaginative, fast-paced, fantastically real and supremely entertaining novel of vision and revision.  Once you read it, Oz will never be the same again.	2000-12-03
2190501:US	50718004	R1IAFZYC8RQBNG	0312195494	657651780	The Mad Dog: Stories	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An Apposite Elegy for the Twentieth Century	Like Graves, Sassoon and Owen in the First World War, Heinrich Böll brought a mix of apathy and disgust to his writings about World War II as well as a literary sensibility that condemned him to this genre.  Böll, along with Günter Grass, author of The Tin Drum, and Arno Schmidt, is considered one of the most influential German writers of the postwar period.<br />The Mad Dog represents the third extraction from material left by Böll at his death in 1985 and contains nine previously unpublished stories and a novel fragment, all written between 1936 and 1950.  I think they represent the best introduction to Böll available.  They also anticipate his best work, the novels, Billiards at Half-Past Nine and The Clown.  The Mad Dog will probably have the most appeal to readers who are already familiar with these great novels and who want to listen to the source of Böll's recurring themes.<br />Youth on Fire represents the earliest work contained in this book and is a poignantly clumsy parable of Heinrich, a sixteen year old boy of Wetherian turn of mind.  When Heinrich meets a woman, however, his life takes a very different course.  In a demi-parable uttered by one of the characters there is a flash of the mature Böll's bitter humor.<br />The Fugitive and Trapped in Paris, composed ten years later, are the antithesis of Youth on Fire.  These two stories are of a desperate and solitary soldier, in the former, an escaped POW or a deserter and in the latter a German soldier cut off from his unit during secret battles.  In these stories, the iconic and discursive idealism of Youth on Fire is replaced by the naturalistic German Expressionism that became Böll's signature in the years immediately following the war and which reached its peak in one of his most famous stories, Stranger, Bear Word to the Spartans We.<br />The Fugitive is very close to the model of Böll's postwar work and consists of a dramatic narrative of claustrophobia and fear that concludes abruptly andviolently.<br />The Rendezvous contains one of Böll's recurring themes:  the difficulty of love.  Böll was a writer whose sense of the absurdity of Eros was as highly developed as was his sense of the absurdity of Thanatos.  Although many of his stories, such as the beautiful My Pal With the Long Hair, celebrate the triumph of love, most of them seem to center on love's impossibilities instead.  Centering on a turbulent and mysterious affair, The Rendezvous contains an implicit riddle, much like Hemingway's Hills Like White Elephants.<br />The Tribe of Esau is an unusual early experiment in the use of a female character's perspective and The Dead No Longer Obey, according to the translator's notes, reworks a passage from the draft of a play entitled As the Law Demanded.  This story is yet another soldier parable with a characteristic poetic and rhetorical twist.<br />The Tale of Berkovo Bridge and the novel fragment, Paradise Lost stand out as the work of the mature Böll and neither is really heretofore unpublished material.  The former contains the reflections of a German military engineer who rebuilds a Russian bridge to facilitate the retreat of 1943 and offers a piece of absurdity as an effective metaphor for the regimented chaos of war.  The Tale of Berkovo Bridge anticipates Böll's greatest novel, Billiards at Half-Past Nine and also contains a manipulation of emblem that some of Böll's readers have found objectionably schematic.<br />The text of Paradise Lost was, in part, incorporated into Der Engel schwieg and Böll also published two extractions of it as Night of Love and The Gutter.  As it is published in this collection, Paradise Lost is a returning-soldier story that dwells on yet another of Böll's recurring themes:  the seemingly random and poignant stasis of solitary objects amid decay.  Returning to the home of his lover after seven years' absence in the war, the narrator notices a section of a rain gutter hanging down just had it had prior tohis leaving.<br />The most palpable current in all of Böll's writing, however, is sorrow.  It is abundantly present in this collection and it seems to stand as an apposite elegy for the twentieth century.  This collection is a wonderful introduction to the writings of one of this century's most talented German writers.	2000-12-02
2190515:US	50718004	RBUN5SQKM50DZ	0679781633	611649317	The Knife Thrower: and Other Stories (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	From the Ordinary to the Extraordinary	Steven Millhauser, who won the Pulitzer Prize for his wonderful period novel, Martin Dressler, is an author who is strikingly different from his contemporaries.  The Knife Thrower is pure Millhauser and in this collection of stories he once again looks at almost everything except ordinary, earthbound, twentieth-century American life.<br />Even those stories that do have a mundane, contemporary setting, such as The Dream of the Consortium, also contain something of the mysterious as well.  In this story, an ordinary shopping mall becomes a world of Moorish courtyards and Aztec pyramids.  In The Sisterhood of the Night, a secret society of girls, not so unusual in itself, manages to encompass the mysterious when the girls slip out of their homes to indulge in nothing more than silence.  In Clair de Lune, a boy finds himself at a baseball game.  But this is a nocturnal baseball game, played by girls who are dressed as boys.  Flying Carpets is a fascinating story that details both the joys and the problems inherent in that particular mode of travel.<br />At first glance, Millhauser's stories might appear to be little more than surreal melodramas, stories that definitely have virtues but stories that also cause the reader to give up in despair.  This, however, is certainly not the case.  Millhauser, like Kafka, draws us effortlessly into the shimmering worlds of his imagination through his poignant and expert use of detail and the elegance and beauty of his poetic prose.<br />In five of these twelve stories, Millhauser uses the first person plural to wonderful effect and effectively allows his narrators to speak, not only for themselves, but for their community as well.  <br />The title story, one of the collection's best, centers around a knife thrower named Hensch and the single performance given by Hensch and his assistant which involves a series of increasingly dangerous tricks.  Like the audience, we remain uncertain about what it is we really witness as the story draws to a surprising close.<br />Those already familiar with Millhauser's work will be reminded of his gorgeous story, Einsenheim the Illusionist which also follows the path from ordinary to extraordinary.  Other stories in this fascinating collection also bear a debt to Millhauser's earlier work, most notably The New Automaton Theater which is reminiscent of Millhauser's novella, August Eschenburg.  Both offer a biography of a master automaton maker.  While August Eschenberg finds himself trumped by a fellow creator, the central character in The New Automaton Theater, Heinrich Graum, stops work at the height of his success and remains silent for a period of a dozen years.  When Graum finally does return to the theater he finds something very surprising and disturbing has happened to his work.<br />Although the first person plural seems to dominate these stories, some of the most vivid and intimate are written in the first person singular.  In, A Visit, the narrator goes to see an old friend in a remote town and finds that he is married, quite happily, to a very large frog.  As implausible as this story sounds, it becomes quite believable, mostly due to Millhauser's extraordinary talent for visual detail.<br />No Way Out is the sometimes humorous story, reminiscent of South American writer Julio Cortazar, in which a man learns the dubious distinction of honor versus dishonor.<br />Balloon Flight, 1870 is an account of an attempt to escape occupied Paris in a balloon.  The narrator is at first exhilarated by his new perspective of the world from the air, but as the balloon ascends to 10,000 feet, he begins to experience dread, instead.<br />Like the narrator of Balloon Flight, 1870, Millhauser is an author whose protagonists are always seeking escape, by ascending into the air or burrowing into the earth or perfecting their art, e.g., knife throwing.  Sometimes these protagonists go too far, but in their struggles between the real and the surreal, art and life, theyhelp to shed light on both the ordinariness and the extraordinariness of our own daily lives as well.	2000-12-02
2191257:US	50718004	RWSVLKQQJDHIG	0879517921	16853996	The Tent of Orange Mist	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Exquisitely Beautiful and Elegantly Wrought	The art of decadence, which reached its zenith in late nineteenth-century French literature consists in transforming artificiality and repugnance into the stuff of heady pleasure.  In decadence, the whole must serve each, individual part.  In this sense, decadence is just the opposite of classicism in which the opposite is true and each part must be pressed into service of the whole.  The pleasures of decadence, however one wishes to view them, and, no matter how artificial they may be, can be extraordinarily exquisite.  In The Tent of Orange Mist, Paul West shows that he is truly one of the masters of decadence.<br />The Tent of Orange Mist is set against the backdrop of the horrors of the rape of Nanking by the Japanese army during the winter of 1937.  The protagonist is Scald Ibis, the very proper adolescent daughter of a Chinese scholar.  Two other characters dominate this book:  Colonel Hayashi, the man who orchestrates Scald Ibis's transformation from child into woman; and Hong, her enfant terrible father who undergoes a none-too-pleasant transformation of his own.  As Scald Ibis becomes involved in a sado-masochistic pas de deux with Hayashi, her home is turned into a brothel and she, herself, is transformed from a stunned sex slave into and elegant geisha.  Against a grotesque backdrop of luridly depicted atrocities, Scald Ibis, Hayashi and Hong play out a game of intense tragedy that includes domination, subversion and mutilation.<br />Hundreds of thousands of innocent Chinese civilians met a grisly death at the hands of the Japanese during the rape of Nanking.  Most writers who have undertaken to portray this atrocity have combined stark realism with an epic narrative technique, hoping to engage the reader's attention and evoke a sense of righteous outrage.  West, however, takes a very different approach.<br />The Tent of Orange Mist is a book about the seductive power of art and the temptations of artifice.  In keeping with the theme of his story, West imposes on his extraordinarily artificial characters an intimate and rather claustrophobic view that is perfect.  In West's extremely talented hands, this improbable trio becomes believable, even when indulging in the most bizarre of circumstances.  After being gang-raped by Hayashi and his troops, Scald Ibis's first gesture is to compose an elegant poem in calligraphy to the man she considers her new master.<br />This is a story of rape, of rapture, of poetry and of atrocity, but West tells his tale in prose that is graceful and delicately ornate.  Although this extremely intimate look at a world and characters who are often bizarre and tortured and perverted will be offensive to some readers, The Tent of Orange Mist is a book that, considering what it depicts, is exquisitely beautiful and elegantly wrought.poses on his extraordinarily artificial characters an intimate and rather claustrophobic view that is perfect.  In West's extremely talented hands, this improbable trio becomes believable, even when indulging in the most bizarre of circumstances.  After being gang-raped by Hayashi and his troops, Scald Ibis's first gesture is to compose an elegant poem in calligraphy to the man she considers her new master.<br />This is a story of rape, of rapture, of poetry and of atrocity, but West tells his tale in prose that is graceful and delicately ornate.  Although this extremely intimate look at a world and characters who are often bizarre and tortured and perverted will be offensive to some readers, The Tent of Orange Mist is a book that, considering what it depicts, is exquisitely beautiful and elegantly wrought.	2000-12-01
2191863:US	50718004	R28JD8F25MPJQ8	0805060014	691653721	The Deep Green Sea: A Novel	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Way Too Predictable	The Deep Green Sea is a novel set in present-day Vietnam.  The story focuses on a love affair between a middle-aged American, Benjamin Cole, a Vietnam veteran, and a young Vietnamese woman, Le Thi Tien.  Returning to Ho Chi Minh City thirty years after the war, Ben meets Tien, a woman who finds herself trapped between the Vietnam of the past and the Vietnam of the present.<br />In 1966, Ben was in Saigon driving trucks for the Unites States Army. The story takes place almost thirty years later, when Ben returns to Ho Chi Minh City and meets (and falls in love with) Tien, who finds herself trapped between traditional Vietnamese beliefs and the policies of the new Communist state.<br />Butler, a master of first-person narration, alternates this story between the sensuous and lyrical voices of Ben and Tien as he explores the conflicts inherent in the old and the new Vietnam and as the couple struggle to find their own special place in the world.  Even though Vietnam is a place of horror and violence for Ben, he comes to feel at home with Tien, more so than he ever felt with his own family in Midwest America.<br />Living in a tiny apartment in Saigon, Tien works for the government as a guide for foreign tourists.  Outwardly conservative, she appears to follow all Communist Party guidelines, however, Tien is a woman secretly longing for the intimacy and passion that only sexual and emotional fulfillment can bring.  Ben and Tien are both a bit of the misfit, the outcast.  Tien's mother, a prostitute, fled Vietnam when the Communists gained control and left Tien with her grandmother.  And, although Tien grew up believing her father to be dead, she often feels his presence near her.<br />Far too much of this book takes place in the bedroom, as Ben and Tien consummate their new-found love.  And, as we learn the story of Ben and his years in Vietnam during the war, we also come to sense the ending of the story, many, many pages before it actually arrives.<br />James Olen Butler, however, is a wonderful writer and this book, although thin on plot and character, is still wonderfully written.  Some of the best images are contained in Tien's descriptions of traditional Vietnamese religion, folklore and mythology.<br />Butler is a writer who is sensitive to the problems in Vietnam and the longterm effects of war, on both a country and on individuals.  I would recommend his Pulitzer Prize winning A Good Scent From a Strange Mountain, however.  The Deep Green Sea, although moody and atmospheric and certainly well-written, is just too trite and predictable to be worthwhile.  Two stars for the quality of the writing, but that is all I can justify.	2000-12-01
2193482:US	50718004	RZKZBX8QXHMDJ	0679777393	309058660	The Puttermesser Papers: A Novel	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Surreal and Picaresque	Although The Puttermesser Papers is billed as a novel, it is not a novel in the traditional sense but rather five short works of fiction, each of which could stand alone.  Each &quot;story&quot; gives us insight into the life of Ruth Puttermesser, student, idealist and lover of the law.  These fictions illuminates various stages of Puttermesser's life, about a decade apart, and beginning when Puttermesser is thirty-four.<br />Although we come to realize in the first story that this will constitute a biography of sorts, it is a very different biography in that the facts seem, more often than not, to contradict themselves.  Identity, in Puttermesser's world, is something very elusive and suspect.  For example, we witness a conversation between Puttermesser and her Uncle Zindel only to later learn that the conversation really did not occur.<br />This is a surrealistic book and we learn to accommodate its contradictions.  In fact, after a time, they even become rather comforting rather than disorienting.  Life, after all, is full of contradictions and Ozick wisely challenges the very idea that one's life story can be set in stone and fully told.  What is consciousness and what is below the surface, she seems to be asking.  Is life more accurately represented by external or internal experience?  Ozick shows us Ruth Puttermesser's life from both the external and the internal viewpoint and she also leaves a good many gaps in between.  One thing, though, is abundantly clear:  Puttermesser's life as a lawyer in the New York City Department of Receipts and Disbursements is, internally, far richer than it is externally.<br />We first encounter the eternally unattractive Ruth Puttermesser in bed, engaged in the study of the Hebrew grammar she loves so much and eating the fudgy sweets to which she seems addicted.  In fact, the only thing more enticing for Puttermesser than a night of Hebrew grammar and fudge seems to be the idea of paradise, a paradise in which she envisions herself voraciously reading anything and everything she somehow managed to miss while on earth.<br />While waiting on paradise, however, Puttermesser must endure the day-to-day bureaucracy of city government.  This is a bleak existence, but one in which Puttermesser dreams of ideals like merit and justice for all.  As an independent candidate from the Independents for Socratic and Prophetic Justice party, Puttermesser dreams of running for mayor and transforming New York into a place where youth gangs wash cars for fun, where slum dwellers suddenly transform their own dwellings out of a sense of pride and nothing else and pimps decide it's high time they learn some computer skills.  In short, Puttermesser dreams of transforming New York into a place that is simply not New York.<br />In a section entitled Puttermesser Paired, the heroine develops and idealized friendship with a younger man in which she confirms her belief that the brain is the seat of the emotions.  The man, a reproduction painter, does little more than read with Puttermesser, something that fascinates them both, and their relationship is the very embodiment of George Eliot's romantic life.<br />The final section, Puttermesser in Paradise, is a Mobius strip and suggests that the written word is tantamount to life, itself.  This is a picaresque and surreal book and one that is highly entertaining if not completely fulfilling.  Sadly, I think it will appeal to only a very limited audience.	2000-11-29
2193659:US	50718004	R33LG245HDE6NL	0679750533	347053634	The Elephant Vanishes: Stories	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The Ordinary Becomes Extraordinary	Americans seem to be fascinated by the culture of Japan.  We wonder endlessly about a group of islands that can produce things as diverse as Noh drama, zen gardens and Nintendo games.  American writers, too, can't seem to get enough of Japan, e.g., Jay McInerney, John Burnham Schwartz and Michael Crichton.<br />Haruki Murakami, one of the most original and brilliant authors writing today, gives us an entirely different look at life in Japan in his collection of short stories, The Elephant Vanishes.  These stories show us Japan &quot;from the inside.&quot;  What might seem exotic to both Americans and Europeans, such as oyster hot pot or pillows filled with buckwheat husks, becomes, in these stories, the stuff of everyday life.  In fact, Haruki Marakami's Japan could be &quot;anyplace,&quot; and one has to read eleven pages into this collection before the first reference to Japan is ever made.<br />In The Elephant Vanishes, Murakami's narrators are as much &quot;Everyman&quot; as are the narrators of his novels.  They are young, urban and charmingly downwardly mobile.  And, they are more likely to eat a plate of spaghetti than soba noodles.  They listen to Wagner and Herbie Hancock but eschew Japanese rock music.  They read Len Deighton and War and Peace rather than Kobo Abe and The Tale of the Genji.  They are Japanese, to be sure, but all their points of reference seem to be exclusively Western and signature Murakami.<br />In the world of Haruki Murakami, bizarre events take place with striking regularity and, also with strikingly regularity, they are accepted as simply the stuff of everyday life.  In The Wind-Up Bird and Tuesday's Women, the narrator's search for a missing cat leads him to a closed-off and neglected alleyway passing between the backyards of parallel houses.  Here, he encounters a sunbathing teenage girl who mimics the alleyway in that she is both ordinary and alien.<br />In A Window, a correspondence school writing teacher pays a visit to a pupil,a married woman in her early thirties.  They spend their time eating hamburgers and listening to Burt Bacharach.  Nothing much happens; in fact, the thing the narrator remembers most is the lovely weather and the colorful array of sheets and futons drying over the railings of the building's verandahs.  Like many of Murakami's protagonists, what these two share is absent more than it is present.<br />Many of these stories seem more than a little fabulistic.  The Dancing Dwarf is a good example.  This story takes place in an impressively efficient factory that manufactures, of all things, elephants.  The protagonist just happens to be assigned to the ear section during his narration of the story, working in that part of the building with the yellow ceiling and the yellow posts.  His helmet and pants also happen to be yellow.  The month before, however, he had been assigned to the green building and he had worn a green helmet and green pants and had made heads.<br />TV People is a bizarre story that involves human mutants reduced by twenty to thirty percent, something that made them look far away even when close up.  When these mutants invade both the narrator's home and office and begin to deny his very existence, he begins to doubt it as well.<br />And, in The Elephant Vanishes, the haunting title story, an elephant actually disappears, with its keeper, from an enclosure where it has been kept as a mascot for a Tokyo suburb.  The solution to the mystery, like all of Murakami's mysteries is not clear cut but hinges on a matter of perspective and proportion instead.<br />Parallel worlds abound in these stories; this is ordinary life, but ordinary life fraught with unexpected and unsettling views.  In the stories that make up The Elephant Vanishes, Murakami is doing what he does so wonderfully:  pointing out how much of life is hidden beneath the surface, how much is truly unknowable.<br />In Sleep, a young woman suddenly finds she no longer needs it.  Rather than question her sudden awakening, she focuses instead on the strangeness of her husband's face.  Unable to describe exactly why it now seems so strange to her, she simply accepts that it is weird and that is that.  The protagonist of The Second Bakery Attack is similar in that he really doesn't question why his wife keeps a shotgun and ski masks in their car, even though neither of them had ever skied.<br />Lest anyone think these stories gloss over life, they couldn't be more wrong.  Detail abounds:  the pull tabs from beer cans lying in overflowing ashtrays, shotgun shells that rustle like the buckwheat husks in old-fashioned pillows, ice melting in cocktail glasses.<br />Like kittens lolling all over one another, a metaphor from a story entitled The Last Lawn of the Afternoon, these are stories in which animals--elephants, kangaroos, windup birds, and even the tragically mistreated &quot;little green monsters&quot;--play an extraordinarily prominent part.  The Elephant Vanishes is definitely the world of Haruki Murakami, ordinary and yet so very, very extraordinary.	2000-11-29
2195772:US	50718004	R1OQG2EQGPGJYY	0684824795	240643617	Snow White	Books	5	3	10	N	N	Clueless	I love satire, so I thought I would love this book.  I think... it is the work of a genius.  But (and those of you who havewritten to me saying I am a literary snob will love the next part)beyond that, I am clueless!<br />I am not being flippant.  I know you'llall laugh (and that's okay), but really, I thought Finegan's Wake waseasier than this!	2000-11-28
2195817:US	50718004	R1KKZYFNQ2WMBG	0714542180	512213262	002: Wilhelm Meister: The Years of Apprenticeship	Books	5	20	20	N	N	The Height of German Romanticism	Twenty years divides this wonderful book from the more popular, The Sorrows of Young Werther which was written when Goethe was quite young.  Wilhelm Meister's Apprenticeship belongs to the second period of Goethe's life and his writings and is the purest representation of that second period, having been written over a ten-year period.<br />This novel is nothing less than a masterpiece of art of the highest order.  The problems inherent in a surfeit of emotion and sentimental despair are solved in Wilhelm Meister.  Instead of running rampant, as it did in Werther, enthusiasm is channeled in Wilhelm Meister.  The protagonist has managed to make peace with the forces that threaten to annihilate him.  His once gloomy and perturbed spirit is serene and vital.<br />More importantly, this harmony and peace have not been achieved through any kind of surrender or crushing blow to the spirit.  Instead, the protagonist, once an ardent and high-spirited young man, has simply grown into a calm and serene man; one whose passion and ardor have not waned over the years but have simply ripened.  He has managed to give up the foolish idealism of his youth and has built his trust in himself and his own instincts.  The darkness of dreams, a landscape on which he used to flounder has become firmer and surer ground. <br />The characters in this book are blended perfectly:  the softness and skepticism of Jarno, the commercialism of Werner, the polish of Lothario, the enthusiasm of the Harper, the vivacity of Philina and the mystic, ethereal nature of the highly spiritual Mignon.  Goethe, of course, does justice to each, and places each in his proper element.  The mild-hearted Wilhelm, so full of promise and hope, continues to struggle forward, through a myriad of complications toward his world of art.<br />Goethe, one of the greatest geniuses who ever lived, united all into a whole so perfect and perfectly harmonious, that Wilhelm Meister becomes nothing less than sheer poetry, the very height of German Romanticism at its finest.  This marvelous book reveals life in all of its multi-layered existence; it uncovers the beauty and hidden meaning is the mundane; it reveals the perfection of the universe in all its clarity.<br />Far too many people are scared away from Goethe because of his towering intellectualism, but he wrote in a style the is both gorgeous and readable.  Wilhelm Meister's Apprenticeship is the very pinnacle of German Romanticism and one of the greatest books of world literature.  It would be a pity for anyone to miss it.	2000-11-28
2197372:US	50718004	R3UJVYPWS0TPG7	014044503X	451333365	The Sorrows of Young Werther (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	109	116	N	N	The Sorrow of Loving Too Much	I always find it sad that more people do not read Goethe for pleasure alone.  Yes, he was a &quot;scholarly&quot; writer but his works, although profound, are written in an easily understandable style.  I think too many people have been needlessly scared off by Goethe's monumental intelligence and his philosophy.  This is too bad.  His books revolve around themes that are universal, subjects to which all of us can relate:  romantic love, nature, God, beauty.  <br />Eighteenth-century German literature was propelled by a revolution in romanticism, and writers such as Goethe celebrated their most cherished ideals in as ornate and eloquent a manner as possible.  While the tendency of American and British writers to ignore the sublime and the romantic in favor of stark realism does have its place, that does not mean that the sublime and the romantic should be casually tossed aside.<br />The Sorrows of Young Werther is not Goethe at this best (you need to read Wilhelm Meister's Apprenticeship for that) but it the best introduction to Goethe anyone could find and a lovely novella in its own right.  The Sorrows of Young Werther opens more amazingly than any book I have ever read and it is not overstating things a bit to say that Goethe gives us something profound and beautiful on each and every page.<br />The Sorrows of Young Werther is comprised, for the most part, of letters written by a hopelessly romantic young man named Werther to a friend named Wilhelm.  These letters not only detail Werther's doomed love for the beautiful Charlotte, they also contain the most beautiful meditations on just about everything important in life:  love, beauty, nature, philosophy, art, religion.<br />In Werther, Goethe clearly shows us the problems inherent in loving and idealizing something a bit too much.  I think many readers will have a problem with the character of Werther.  He is simply too romantic to be real.  And then there will be those who will wonder how a man who is capable of uttering the most gorgeous and flowing words about beauty, art and nature can fall so hopelessly in love with one woman that he seems to forget all else that he holds dear.  Well, Werther, in the best romantic tradition, has invested all the emotion he feels for art, beauty, religion, etc. in Charlotte.  Once readers realize this, I think the ending of this novella will make sense to them.  Yes, Werther is an extreme but once you come to understand him, he does make perfect sense.<br />As I said, this isn't Goethe at this best or his most sublime or even, believe it not, his most romantic, but this is certainly the best place to begin if you are just beginning your study of this monumental author or of German romanticism in general.	2000-11-27
2197631:US	50718004	R381IWBFVWBMB	0553572997	501395694	The Alienist	Books	5	94	100	N	N	More Complex Than an Escher Drawing	The Alienist is a book that is filled with both mystery and horror and it is absolutely riveting.  Although a little over five hundred pages long, The Alienist is so fantastic and reads so well that we barely notice the pages going by.  I read it in two evenings, something that is very rare for me; when a book is as good as this one is, I like to savor it and make it last.<br />The first thing that most readers will wonder about is the somewhat strange title.  What, exactly, is an alienist?  Well, as Carr explains, prior to the twentieth century, those who were mentally ill were thought to be alienated, from society and from their own true nature as well.  Those who studied the pathology of mental illness were thus known as &quot;alienists.&quot;<br />The plot centers around three friends:  a journalist, John Moore; an alienist, Lazlo Kreizler; and a newly-appointed Police Commissioner who just happens to be Teddy Roosevelt.  The three are working to solve a series of brutal murders that involves a string of boy prostitutes.<br />Teddy, as would be expected, is on top of everything and appoints Dr. Kreizler to head the investigation into the murders.  Moore is included by association only, it would seem, since he and Teddy went to Yale together.  Coincidentally, Moore has only recently returned from England where he was busy covering the Jack the Ripper murders.<br />Kreizler immediately begins to track the murders using what is known and what is unknown and via assumption as well.  The twists and turns in this book are so complex and varied that both information and assumptions change almost as quickly as the team of investigators can piece them all together.<br />As would be expected, tracking a serial killer in New York City isn't an easy job.  People die, disappear and are murdered with frightening regularity and, usually, with little rhyme or reason.  Roosevelt, however, is determined.  Not only must he solve the murders, he must also clean up the NYPD in the process.  There are, of course, the usual assortment of people who simply do not want the murders solved, in this case, corrupt policeman, underworld bosses and even the city's elite.  Virtually everyone seems to hold the attitude that the murder victims, being prostitutes, shouldn't matter.  In fact, there are those who think the city should be glad to rid of them.  This is a book filled with both social and political turmoil, turmoil that threatens to overwhelm the murder case and make it impossible to solve.<br />The writing is fluid and really first-rate.  The pages fly by and the suspense builds like a danse macabre.  The characters are fully-developed but a little dark.  The only bright spot in this fascinating but bizarre book is Teddy Roosevelt, himself.  But it would, of course, be impossible to paint Teddy all somber, all of the time.<br />The Alienist is a dark and offbeat book and one that borders on the macabre, but it is also one that is fascinating and extremely well-written.  All in all, an enormous accomplishment.	2000-11-26
2197658:US	50718004	R1MP83KG4L7IT2	0374280355	605962018	The Unburied	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Triumphant Return of the Victorian Novel	Charles Palliser is the author who brought the Victorian novel out of the drawing room with The Quincunx, a fast-paced novel of adventure and intrigue.<br />With The Unburied, however, he takes us back into the drawing room...literally.  Much of this book involves fireside conversation over sherry or port, and much of it moves at a pace that would make writers such as Dickens and George Eliot proud.<br />At first glance, The Unburied seems to be no more than a ghost story, and it is certainly atmospheric, filled as it is with all the spookiness and gloom one usually finds only in the Gothic form of the genre.  Palliser, however, deviates somewhat from a standard thriller as he leads us down first one unexpected path, then another.<br />The book centers on the character of Dr. Edward Courtine, an academic who has come to the English town of Thurchester to visit an old acquaintance.  Courtine gradually learns the details of a murder at the local cathedral more than two centuries earlier and of a ghost that some still believe to haunt the area.  Courtine, however, hasn't come to Thurchester to hunt ghosts; he has come to look for a lost book about Alfred the Great.  So great is his preoccupation with his search, in fact, that he overlooks what the reader can see quite clearly:  all of the townsfolk are acting as if they had something to hide.<br />It is at this point that the unexpected paths make their first appearance.  Unexpected paths, red herrings, false clues, the reader really doesn't know what to make of this story.  Is the centuries old murder the book's focal point or is it, instead, the murder that has just been committed?  Perhaps it both.<br />Palliser cleverly uses a recently revealed manuscript as a framing device and proceeds to tell his tale in the first-person, with Courtine as the narrator.  The story is rewoven many times and readers who fail to pay attention will find themselves at a loss.<br />The Unburied unfolds in a typically slow Victorian fashion as Courtine embarks on a personal journey, addressing old wounds and looking towards a newly bright future.  There is a lot of exposition is this book, but that is all to the good and Palliser has succeeded in creating one of those dark, brooding and intensely atmospheric Victorian novels that he, himself, loves so very much.  Some readers, however, may find this frustrating.  The Quincunx balanced its nineteenth century setting with a sense of urgency about the plot; The Unburied takes its time as gaslights, fog, architecture and landscape come to be regarded almost as characters in their own right.<br />By the time we near the end of this amazing book, we begin to wonder if this is a story of murders long ago or ghosts that still walk.  Or is it even more?  Is it an exploration of the things that can, and often do, haunt a man internally?  The answer is something that each reader will have to decide for himself, for this is certainly an ambitious work.  <br />The Unburied is a book for mystery lovers and for non-mystery lovers alike.  Anyone who enjoys a well-constructed novel written with meticulous care and detail will find this book time well spent.	2000-11-26
2199225:US	50718004	R1LOM2XQIGROO	0374217556	255479081	My Year in the No-Man'S-Bay	Books	4	14	15	N	N	The Tale is the Teller	Austrian novelist, playwright and screenwriter Peter Handke is someone who seeks to alienate his work from the artificiality of life; in doing so his work, itself, becomes rather alienating.<br />Handke first gained attention in 1966 when he denounced Günter Grass and Heinrich Boll for, as he saw it, compromising the novel by making it a vehicle for social criticism.  Like many French writers, Handke believed that novelists should register conscious experiences only, and then render them as austerely as possible.<br />Handke is a novelist who never creates a character.  Instead, he folds his characters into his prose.  He never constructs a real plot.  Instead, he chronicles the very plotlessness (and pointlessness) of life.  Handke finally decided that writers had their own personal stories to tell rather than telling those of the characters they made up.  His novel, The Afternoon of a Writer told the story of, the afternoon of a writer.  No more, no less.<br />My Year in the No-Man's Bay is the sequel to The Afternoon of a Writer.  Although many readers may find this novel's content to be less-than-stimulating, I don't think anyone could say its structure is less-than-breathtaking.<br />The protagonist is a fifty-five year old writer who attempts to recall a year long artistic and spiritual metamorphosis.  This writer is poetically named Gregor Keuschnig, and is known only as Gregor K.  (Those who are at all familiar with Handke will immediately recognize this as a jab at Kafka, one of Handke's least favorite authors.)  Gregor, who is obviously Handke's alter-ego, has grown disenchanted with both city life and country life and has moved to the suburbs of Paris instead.  The city and the countryside, says Gregor, have been much overused as the setting in more traditional novels.<br />Throughout the book, Gregor uses the French word, banlieue, for suburb.  But banlieue could also mean &quot;place of the outlaws,&quot; and, as such, it represents for Gregor, a chance to mine new linguistic and narrative terrain; a sort of &quot;no-man's bay,&quot; a nameless body of water.  (Apparently American writers who are notorious for setting their novels in the suburbs, John Updike, in particular, have escaped Handke's notice.)<br />Gregor first writes at length about the difficulties and problems all writers face, bringing us right up to the year of his metamorphosis in the suburbs which is what he really wants to describe in the first place.  He has a very difficult time doing so, however, as he gets bogged down time and again in what he calls &quot;prehistories.&quot;<br />The novel's last section, The Day, is a section in which Gregor collapses all time together.  His year of metamorphosis, we come to realize, could be the year he is writing about or the year he is writing in or the year in which one of his &quot;stories&quot; takes place.  It is up to the reader to decide.<br />Life, itself, intrudes on Gregor's writing abilities until his novel and his life become one and the same, inseparable.  What he visualizes as being of no consequence, the stuff of novels, has become his daily world.  Or, has his daily world become the stuff of his novel?<br />My Year in the No-Man's Bay can, at times, be a very intellectually stimulating book but, unfortunately, it is also very dry.  Handke's reliance on theme over character and plot might be a good idea, but in this book, at least, it is really not believable and certainly not engrossing.  At least not all of the time.<br />This book is certainly not all bad.  Gregor's wife, Ana, despite Handke's intentions to ignore character, is particularly engrossing, as is Heraclitus, one of the novel's spirits.  Unfortunately, most of My Year in the No-man's Bay is narcissistic, spiritual pretension.  Handke likens both Gregor and the character of Valentin to Christ.  He feels that both St. Paul and St. John are but kindred spirits and he even goes so far as to liken Gregor's metamorphosis with Christ's resurrection.  <br />Handke co-wrote the screenplay for Wenders's Wings of Desire, a stunning movie about angels who descend to earth.  In My Year in the No-Man's Bay, he seems to have taken the tremendous success of Wings of Desire a little too much too heart (although Wings deserved all the success that was heaped upon it).  In this book Handke constantly make references to wings and to angels that just don't work.  Unfortunately, in his desire to kill off everything that is pretentious and artificial in the novel, Handke has killed off everything that is human as well.  My Year in the No-Man's Bay is still a book well worth reading, but only if a highly thematic, plotless book is one that suits your style.<br />I read this book in both English and in the original German.  I did find the English translation to be clumsy and overly-literal.  Handke always writes a gorgeous, mesmerizing German that is both winding and spare and always elegant and, if you can read German and want to read this book, the original is the far, far better choice.	2000-11-25
2199451:US	50718004	R31IYRDB5ZVYN5	0375401628	626384028	Day of the Bees	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Rich, Poetic Darkness	As this novel opens, Louise Collard, reputedly the famous model and lover of the great Spanish painter Francisco Zermano, has died in a small Provencal town.  Lured by the promise of an auction of Louise's own private collection of Zermanos, and even more by curiosity about the reclusive Louise herself, the art world descends en masse on Provence.<br />Day of the Bess is narrated by an American art history professor who has devoted much of his professional life to the study of Zermano.  Arriving in France, the narrator hopes to find a clue that will help him unravel the mystery of Louise and Zermano since it appears as though this once-beautiful woman was cruelly abandoned by the man who had loved her so passionately in the countryside of occupied France during World War II.<br />The Professor (as he is always identified) arrives at Louise's remote country home long after the auction is concluded (yes, he does possess the stereotypical absent-mind) only to be told that nothing remains but a few worthless knitting baskets.  The professor, apparently believing that something is better than nothing, gladly accepts them.<br />The baskets, however, contain something more interesting than any painting could ever be and something that is, perhaps, even more valuable.  Concealed in a secret opening are bundles of letters written by Zermano to Louise, as well as letters from Louise to Zermano that had never been sent.  The beautiful and enigmatic Louise apparently had not been quite as abandoned by her lover as the public seems to have thought and, as the professor reads the lovers' pained and passionate words he begins to piece together the mystery of their relationship.<br />Day of the Bees is a story told through the letters of these doomed lovers, set against the backdrop of war-torn France.  This is, above all, an emotional story and a mystery of the heart.  The war, too, becomes a major character as it impacts the lives and future of both Louise and Zermano.<br />Although some have compared Day of the Bees to The Bridges of Madison County, I think it deserves far more than that.  The Bridges of Madison County was sentimental drivel, and poorly-written sentimental drivel at that, while Day of the Bees is beautifully and poetically written.  It reminds me more of The English Patient than anything else, although it is highly original and of course, unique.  The character of Zermano seems to be modeled after Pablo Picasso, although, of course, Zermano is not based on Picasso.  This story is fiction, not fact.<br />It gives nothing of the plot away to say that Zermano left Louise for reasons he considered valid even though she begged him not to go.  Still madly in love with his mistress, however, Zermano never gives up writing to Louise.  Her apparent silence pains him immensely.<br />Louise, as we learn, has lost none of her passion for Zermano.  It is through her beautiful and poetic letters that we learn of the genesis of their doomed, but undying, love and the violence and danger that forced them to separate, a danger that will stalk Louise for the rest of her life.  And, although the politics of World War II do play a part in this book, this is not a political story.<br />From the book's first page we know that the lovers never reunite and that Louise manages to survive the war, but this is still a mystery of the most profound kind, a mystery of the relationship between two people who love each other to their very core, a mystery concerning the shadows cast by the actions we take or fail to take, the choices we make (and perhaps later regret) and the forces that impose themselves on our lives against our will.  This is the shadow world in which Louise Collard lives and it is in the portrayal of this shadow world that Day of the Bees truly excels.<br />As a woman who has lived most of her life in the countryside of Provence, I can attest to the genuineness of Sanchez's portrayal and his detail of setting.  His language is rich andemotional and poetic.  The passion shared by Louise and Zermano is vibrantly alive and absolutely riveting.  Some of the book's best scenes, whether those portraying the savagery of war or the passion of sexuality are so original and haunting they are almost surreal.<br />Some readers may find the letters, themselves, a problem.  They can be poetic in the extreme and sometimes this poetry threatens to overwhelm the actual novel and the story of Louise and Zermano.  But deep, abiding love and intense sexual passion are poetic; I, myself, had no problem with the letters.  In fact, I found them gorgeous.  Louise's letters, in particular, are one of the strongest parts of Day of the Bees.  Many male readers, and readers who prefer a little less passion, might find this book somewhat overly-lyrical, though.<br />The ending is not at all surprising but it is not a letdown, either.  Sanchez's touches of humor and whimsy regarding the character of the professor are aptly-placed and never intruding.  This is Louise's story, rather than Zermano's and, if anything, I wanted to know more about this fascinating woman and why she made the choices she did.<br />This is definitely a character-driven novel and those looking for a swiftly-moving plot will be sorely disappointed.  If you're looking for a book about love and passion, a rich, multi-layered story of lyrical and poetic darkness, you couldn't possibly do better than this.	2000-11-25
2199700:US	50718004	R2YUX3OZ75ABD8	0679776591	578664297	Fugitive Pieces: A Novel	Books	5	31	33	N	N	Love's Perpetual Thirst	Fugitive Pieces is Canadian poet Anne Michaels' first novel and it is beautiful in the extreme.  At the heart of this lovely and moving book is the struggle to understand the despair of loss and the solace of love and, most of all, the difficulty of reconciling the two.  The protagonists are two Jewish men, one a Holocaust survivor, the other the son of Holocaust survivor parents.<br />Material such as that explored in Fugitive Pieces could very easily become trite and cliched, but in Michaels' extraordinarily gifted hands suffering, loss and grief become nothing less than transcendent.  An extraordinarily gifted writer, Michaels creates wonderful characters and tells an engrossing story through the use of gorgeous, but spare, dialogue and subtle metaphor.<br />The plot is a rather simple one (this is definitely a character driven story) but it is profound and also a profoundly moving meditation on the nature of grief and the redemptive power of love.  The first line in the book, &quot;Time is a blind guide,&quot; is haunting, but it is also ironic, for the story will prove that time is anything but blind.<br />One of the protagonists, Jakob Beer, was orphaned as a seven-year old boy in Poland.  Although the death of his parents affects Jakob most greviously, it is his sorrow at the death of his beloved older sister, Bella, that will remain with him for a lifetime.  Jakob, himself, escapes the Nazis and flees into the forests of Poland where he is rescued by a Greek geologist, Athos Roussos, who eventually smuggles the boy to the Greek island of Zakynthos.<br />On Zakynthos, Jakob can finally begin to put his life back together again.  He is, however, haunted by memories of Bella, a gifted pianist.  It is Bella who ultimately becomes Jakob's Beatrice as he begins his fascination with the poetry that will play a central role in the balance of his life.<br />Athos, himself a widower, and Jakob, an orphan, seem to find in each other what they thought they had forever lost:  a sense of family and abiding love and trust.  As Athos finds joy in raising Jakob, Jakob finds joy in the values Athos seeks to instill in him:  the love of language, scholarship and ethics.<br />Although Athos seeks to heal Jakob, he does not attempt to obliterate his past.  Ïnstead, Athos encourages Jakob to learn his Hebrew alphabet, telling him it is the future he is remembering rather than the past.  As Jakob practices both the twisting and ornate letters of Hebrew and Greek, Athos tells him that both languages contain the &quot;ancient loneliness of ruins.&quot; <br />The narrative eventually moves from Greece to Toronto where Jakob becomes the product of his love for the late Bella and the teachings of Athos.  The love given him so freely by both will serve as a continuum for the rest of Jakob's life as he realizes that the best teachers encourage, not the mind, but the heart.  Jakob comes to know that Athos instilled in him the necessity of love and, that, to honor both Athos and Bella he must resolve a &quot;perpetual thirst.&quot; <br />The story closes with the character of Ben, a young professor who has become fascinated by both Jakob and his work.  Their relationship is reminiscent of the relationship of Leopold Bloom and Stephen Dedalus in James Joyce's Ulysses.  Ben's family was the very antithesis of the relationship shared by Athos and Jakob.  In Ben's family there was no energy, no love, no sadness.  Ben seeks strength and purpose in Jakob's life and in his words, words that have the ability to transmute the horror of war and the loss of family.  Words that have the power to speak that which, heretofore, has remained unspoken.<br />Fugitive Pieces is a beautiful novel, a meditation on love and loss and grief and solace.  It is a quiet book but one that is immensely profound.  Anne Michaels is a gifted poet and with Fugitive Pieces she proves that she is an extraordinary gifted writer of prose as well.	2000-11-24
2199809:US	50718004	R1BEX7ANMPKEQT	0385333757	64473411	Losing Julia	Books	4	20	22	N	N	A Lovely Debut	Jonathan Hull has written a lovely debut novel in Losing Julia.  It is difficult to portray strong emotions such as grief, love and intense fear without crossing the line into trite overwrought sentimentality, yet Hull manages to pull it off.<br />Losing Julia is told from the point-of-view of eighty-one year old Patrick Delaney and takes us back through his life as a soldier in the trenches of France in World War I, then ten years later to a chance meeting with his best friend's fiancée, Julia, to the present day.<br />Losing Julia is an elegantly written book about love, the loss of love and the ravages of war on the individual psyche.  Although parts of the book can be horrifying, Hull wisely gives us touches of warm-hearted humor as well.  The stereotypical crotchety old man, Patrick is, by turns, poetic and sardonic, but he is always lovable.<br />In the hands of a lesser writer, Losing Julia might have easily become melodramatic...the stuff of a television daytime soap opera, but Hull's writing is so good, so elegant, so classy, that most readers will find they can't help but share Patrick's thoughts and want to make them their own.<br />Patrick is certainly no cookie-cutter character.  He grows and changes immensely from the time he is a struggling, young poet trying to come to terms with the horrors of war, to the wise, and sometimes witty, older man in the nursing home.  He never has all the answers, but he really doesn't feel he needs them.  I found Hull, and Patrick, to be so correct about our penchant to let the present slip by when Patrick talks about the tendency to live only in regrets for the past or hopes for the future. <br />Hull's descriptions of the battle scenes in World War I are filled with detail, although some of them do border on the purple.  His metaphors tend to be those of a world that is slitting its own wrists and bleeding to death.  It's elegant writing, sure, and it it, at times, poetic, but I really doubt that men in battle thinkthat way and this is where I think the book fails a little.<br />This is not a book that describes war in the graphic way that can be found in Stephen Wright's Meditations in Green, nor is it a book that, I think, that will achieve the staying power of Mark Helprin's classic, A Soldier of the Great War.  It is, however, a warm and wonderful story of love and friendship, of loss and gain, and, although the ending is a bit unbelievable, the character of Patrick is still so well-drawn that Losing Julia is an enjoyable and very worthwhile novel.	2000-11-24
2200083:US	50718004	R3FQ8FJZZV76V9	0679772596	369774091	Sabbath's Theater	Books	5	53	56	N	N	A Darkly Comic Masterpiece of Complexity	In Sabbath's Theater, Philip Roth finally showed us he could write a book in which neither Philip Roth nor his thinly-veiled stand-in, Nathan Zuckerman, made an appearance.<br />The theme of Sabbath's Theater has been done before:  a lecherous, unconventional man railing at the ravages of time and the dwindling of the sexual potency by which he has defined his very existence.  Most of the time, however, this theme is poorly written, the characters trite and cliched.  Roth, not surprisingly, invests this novel with more lyrical energy, more sexual frankness, sharper comedy and deeper seriousness than has any writer before.<br />Although Roth does make use of both flashback and association, the plot of Sabbath's Theater is brisk.  Mickey Sabbath, who went off to sea at the age of eighteen just so he could visit the world's brothels, is a loathsome character.  His abiding philosophy of life is simply to do whatever he pleases and never to worry about pleasing anyone else.  Nothing phases him, in fact, he seems to take pleasure in his uncanny ability to antagonize others.  Their outrage seems to be only a reflection of his own self-worth.  Mickey Sabbath manages to hurt, deceive, betray, offend, insult and abuse just about everyone with whom he comes into contact.<br />A true degenerate, Mickey Sabbath may seem to lack any sense of moral conscience.  Although anyone meeting such a character would deny it, Sabbath actually spent an idyllic childhood on the Jersey shore; a childhood that was shattered by a traumatic dual loss.  In an effort to deal with his loss and the resultant pain, to stamp out the brutality of life, and, to affirm his own sense of aliveness, Sabbath turns to carnal pleasures with a vengeance, indulging each and every sexual impulse.<br />Even as Sabbath indulges his crasser nature, however, and casts a satirical eye on those who deny their sensual impulses, he still endeavors to understand himself and the workings of the universe.  In fact, much of the novel's comic pathos is derived from the tension that exists between Sabbath's base nature and his lechery and his seemingly incomprehensible yearning for cosmic illumination.<br />There is a lot of graphic sex in Sabbath's Theater and most readers will probably find it simply too perverse.  I did not enjoy reading this book, and, although I think I understand Mickey Sabbath, I have to admit that I hated him.  He suffers, that cannot be denied, but he is simply so perverse, and his behavior so amoral, that I really didn't care.<br />To be fair, I do have to admit that the perversity in this book did enhance and advance my understanding of Mickey Sabbath and the conflicts in which he is embroiled.  And Philip Roth is certainly better at creating degenerate, or at least morally ambivalent characters, than he is at creating the lofty or the solemn.  His &quot;good&quot; characters are simply too good to be true, while Sabbath, much as we may despise him, is completely credible.  He may be despicable and perverted, but at least he knows it.<br />The writing in Sabbath's Theater is absolutely first-rate; it is pure Philip Roth and it crackles with more energy and exuberance than Portnoys' Complaint.  The characters are more complex, the narrative more sophisticated and the tonal range wider than many of Roth's other works.  The ending of the book virtually drips with irony.  This is a multi-layered novel and one that is brilliantly original.  It also contains some of the funniest writing to be found anywhere in American fiction today.  Sabbath's Theater is, at its heart, a darkly comic masterpiece of complexity from one of America's finest authors.  But it is simply too perverse for most readers to enjoy.	2000-11-24
2200249:US	50718004	RXJ7FKIDX5IFW	052594527X	858318999	Girl With a Pearl Earring	Books	5	31	32	N	N	As Richly Lustrous as a Vermeer	Vermeer was a seventeenth-century Delft painter who is known for his uncanny ability to use and capture light.  He recorded the simple, yet intimate, activities of daily goings-on with a balance and detail that brought the very breath of life to his paintings.  Tracy Chevalier, in Girl With a Pearl Earring, uses this same balance and detail to tell the story of Griet, a sixteen-year old servant girl working in Vermeer's household.<br />Although strong in both mind and body, Griet comes from a poverty-stricken family.  Her father, once a skilled painter of Delft tiles, has been blinded in a kiln explosion.  It is the shy and naive Griet who seeks to provide the wages needed for the family's survival.  In the Vermeer household, Griet must cope with seemingly endless loads of laundry and meals, five small children and Vermeer's continually-pregnant wife, Catharina.  It is her artist's eye, however, that sets her apart from the other servants, for Griet can clean the master's studio without having seemed to have touched a thing.<br />This book is woven around one of Vermeer's most famous paintings, The Girl With a Pearl Earring.  It is a painting that is different from the religious scenes and those of daily life in Delft, so typical of Vermeer.  The story is told from the point-of-view of Griet, the eventual model for the painting, rather than Vermeer, and it is filled with a young and fresh look at the daily details of life in 1660s Delft.  We learn of the canals and the markets as well as the creation of Vermeer's masterpieces.<br />Griet's story is a complex one as she struggles to make a real place for herself in the Vermeer household.  As a Protestant, she is looked upon with suspicion by most of the members of this Catholic home, but she nevertheless attracts a young suitor who is determined to marry her, as she comes to play a major role in Vermeer's life as a helper who can not only clean his studio and organize his paints, but can actually help him to composehis paintings as well.<br />The emotional tone of Girl With a Pearl Earring is perfect.  Griet is a fully-realized character; a child growing into an adult, with just the right mix of girlish ways and budding maturity.  The detail of daily life is also rendered so finely and precisely that we feel we can actually smell the meat halls of Delft, hear the lively bustle of city life and suffer the quiet tragedy of a quarantine.<br />Chevalier also weaves details from Vermeer's paintings into her story of Griet.  The result is a book that is vibrantly alive and lustrously rich.  It is an education in art history for those who would otherwise let it pass them by.  A tapestry of beauty that pulls the reader in from beginning to end, Girl With a Pearl Earring is a fascinating story and a fascinating look at life in Renaissance Delft that will reward anyone who reads it.	2000-11-24
2201664:US	50718004	R2EK4RPU7ML9V8	0312199511	980961835	Quarantine: A Novel	Books	5	24	36	N	N	A Fable Wrapped in a Novel	Quarantine is a novel of Christ's forty-day sojourn in the wilderness in which He was tempted by Satan.  It resembles a fable in its construction.  This tale was first told in the Bible, in the Gospels of Mark and Luke, and Matthew.  Milton based Paradise Regained on Christ and His temptation.  Crace's Jesus, however, is someone far different.<br />In Quarantine, Christ seems to be more of an unlearned carpenter than someone divine; someone whose parents have reprimanded Him for His habit of piety and who has fled to the desert of Judea in a search for God and truth.<br />Christ is not alone in the Judean wilderness; there are other quarantiners, each with his own purpose and each on his own quest.  Some are determined to be cured of blindness or barrenness, while others are simply searching.  Jesus chooses one of the most uncomfortable caves in the area in which to spend His forty days, and He is determined to spend them without food or water.  In contrast, the wealthy merchant Musa, though suffering from an apparently terminal illness, spends his day with his pregnant wife in a lavish tent.<br />Crace, a master at integrating his setting into the very fabric of his story, describes the desert in minute detail.  This detail, which covers the flora and the fauna, the geography and the geology, is so minute, however, that many readers, (I was one) will need to keep a dictionary handy.  If there are words you can't find, don't worry; this is Jim Crace writing and, just as in Being Dead, another five-star novel, words, and worlds, often exist only in the author's imagination.  And ours.<br />The story continues along the lines of a classic fable, but we feel as though we are lost in a dreamworld, in a hallucination perhaps, as the characters of Musa, his wife Miri, and her contemplative friend, Marta become symbols for the Biblical story with which most of us are familiar.<br />Crace is a writer's writer, a true original, and this book, like his others, is never predictable.  This is an author who is strange, creative and original, but always wonderful.  Never a political writer, Crace is more concerned with giving us a world within a world, with detailing the landscape and the culture.  In Quarantine, there is the almost obsessive description of the desert; in Arcadia, it was a produce market; in Signals of Distress, nautical matters and life in an early Victorian seaport; in Being Dead, it was, of course, death.  Or rather, the process of death.<br />Crace eschews political and topical themes and instead focuses his attention on the beginnings and endings of lives and of worlds:  the remnants of the stone people, the dispossessed greengrocers, the quarantined.  He writes with what Iris Murdoch calls &quot;crystalline&quot; construction; a novel that is really more like a poem, introspective and artistic and thematic.  He very much resembles William Golding and Signals of Distress is very reminiscent of Golding's novel, The Spire.<br />Crace is not going to be everyone's cup of tea.  But for those looking for something a little different, something that will make them think, something that is quietly profound, Crace may be just perfect.	2000-11-22
2203333:US	50718004	R3OKLBKW8OUPVW	0804117683	79568500	Moo	Books	4	22	25	N	N	A Terrific Send-Up	Moo is Jane Smiley's terrific send-up of education, bureaucracy, racism, politics, love and just about everything else in the 1980s.<br />Set in a fictional Iowa university town, Moo U. is as much fun as a roller-coaster ride and features a cast of characters that are nothing short of hilarious.  There is English professor, Tim Monahan, who is perpetually preoccupied with his always-imminent raise and promotion; provost Ivar Harstad, who is coping with the governor's cuts in university funding; and Bo Jones' secret experiment involving a hog named Earl Butz.  Really!<br />And, it only gets better.  There is Dr. Lionel Gift who gets hopelessly involved with a Texas billionaire named Arlen Martin.  The two cook up a project to mine gold from the world's last virgin rainforest, a project that incurs the wrath Chairman X, a man so caught up in leftist ideology he forgets to marry the mother of his children...for more than twenty years.  And best of all, there is Mrs. Walker, the plotting and conniving lesbian secretary to the provost who secretly runs everything at Moo U. with an iron hand.<br />If it seems like Smiley doesn't write much about education in this book about university life, then that's exactly right, for education has little to do with the day-to-day goings-on at Moo U.  Moo U. and its cast of off-beat characters are really a microcosm of America under the Reagan Administration and Moo U. could be any university in the United States.<br />The only thing wrong with Moo is that, while it is supposed to be satire, it just misses the mark.  Don't get me wrong, this is a hilarious book and a hilarious send-up, but I think true satire requires a harder heart than Smiley seems to have.  The ending is a bit of a letdown, especially after the rollicking good ride Smiley has taken us on to get us there.  Anyone who doesn't mind a bit of a letdown, however, will find Moo an enjoyable and hilarious book that makes fun of just about everything.	2000-11-21
2207518:US	50718004	R12QIII56QX1YY	155921175X	835193713	The Orchard on Fire: A Novel	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A Glorious, Heady Plunge Into Childhood	In my opinion, this is Shena MacKay's best novel.  In Coronation Year, Betty and Percy Harlency, with their small daughter, April, move from London to a small village in Kent called Stonebridge, to take over The Copper Kettle Tearoom.  The Copper Kettle is a charming, but not financially prosperous, establishment.<br />When April meets the tomboyish, fiery, ginger-haired Ruby, their friendship is instantly sealed.  The girls are staunch allies who conspire together in every way possible.  Their secret signal is the &quot;lone cry of the peewit;&quot; their hideaway is a railway carriage where they are continually up to mischief.  When the two girls finally manage to pry open the door of the carriage they stand and gaze &quot;in the smell of trapped time.&quot;<br />It is this smell of trapped time, this nostalgia for the emotions of the past, that The Orchard on Fire conjures so expertly.  MacKay is reminiscent of Proust in this extraordinarily evocative novel and we feel intimately connected to April and to her emotional life.  MacKay, usually a brilliant writer, excels in The Orchard on Fire and we can hear the buzz of the insects and the bluebottles, smell the overgrown weeds and the lush summer grass and picture the family's new home at The Copper Kettle.<br />The small English village where April lives is a bit unconventional as are April's parents; the duo are unlikely political radicals and MacKay manages to introduce a Bohemian element into the story in the gentle, pretentious artist characters of Bobs Rix and Dittany Codrington, who is &quot;like the Willow Fairy in Fairies of the Trees by Cicely Mary Barker.&quot;<br />One of the best sections of this wonderfully-written book comes when The Copper Kettle is chosen to host a weekend party for Bobs and Dittany and their artist friends.  For a time, Stonebridge is awash in fairy lights and the pink glow of nostalgia.<br />Although some may dismiss The Orchard on Fire as overly-sentimental, it is nothing but.Child abuse plays a part is this masterfully-written story as does sexual perversion, bringing to mind scenes of Pip in Great Expectations.  We become deeply immersed in April's world, and in her fears and expectations, most particularly her horror at losing a cherished Christmas present.<br />Although this novel tells us more of April then just her childhood, it is childhood that is most strongly evoked in all of its trouble and all of its glory.  The adult April is but a shadow of the child April and we, who grew up with her, know why.<br />The Orchard on Fire is Shena MacKay at her finest and one of the most wonderful and atmospheric books I have ever read.  It is a glorious, heady plunge into the world of childhood that will never be forgotten.	2000-11-17
2208088:US	50718004	R125YT06GDEHOH	1565122461	216751265	The Sky Unwashed	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Requiem for Starylis	On 26 April 1986, a catastrophic accident at the Chernobyl power plant in what is now the Ukraine, sent a massive cloud of radioactive particles into the stratosphere.  After Swedish detectors picked up the radiation in the atmosphere, the news of the accident made headlines around the world, reigniting debates on the safety of nuclear power plants.<br />Although the Soviet government was unable to deny the accident, they did their best to downplay the results and the stories of human suffering were, and still remain, largely untold.  In The Sky Unwashed, Irene Zabytko tells us a very personal tale that seeks to correct this deplorable situation.<br />Despite several hundred years of industrial progress, the Ukrainian countryside remains surprisingly rural and backward.  Although some farm machinery can be seen, for the most part, the planting and harvesting is still done through manual labor.  Abundant grazing lands abound, meaning readily available beef and dairy products for the farmers, more so than for their fellow citizens in urban centers such as Kiev.<br />At first glance, one might assume the small village of Starylis to be nothing more than a peasant village.  A second glance, however, will reveal its high percentage of young people...people who are employed as electricians and construction workers at the nearby Chernobyl nuclear power plant.<br />The protagonist of The Sky Unwashed is Marusia Petrenko, one of the older women of the village.  Marusia views the habits of the young people with disdain and scorn.  After all, she, herself, has survived political and personal turmoil that include a World War, the ravages of Stalinism and desertion by her husband.  Understandably, she tends to turn to her Orthodox religion for guidance and comfort rather than to her government.  Marusia, however, is a woman who is satisfied with her life.  She is happy she can share her home with her grown son, Yurko, his wife, Zosia and Yurko and Zosia's two children.  While all is not perfect in Marusia's world, it is not too bad, either.<br />At a Palm Sunday religious service, a few of the villagers remark on the sound of an explosion the night before, while several others express concern over the absence of relatives due home after the Chernobyl plant's second shift.  Women notice a metallic tang in the air, yet no one really shows any undue alarm.  If something were amiss at the plant, they reason, surely their government would let them know.<br />It isn't until several days after the accident, when the villagers are gathered together and sent to Kiev, that they realize something must be terribly wrong.  They are, however, never told exactly why they must leave Starylis nor when they may return.  Even more shocking, there are no provisions for their continued existence once they arrive in Kiev.<br />As time passes and the people around her sicken and die, Marusia realizes that all she wants to do is return to the only home she has ever known...Starylis...despite the cautions and the dangers.  She is a well-drawn and believable character, so her desires are understandable and we empathize with her plight, even if we objectively see her wishes as unsound.<br />The Sky Unwashed is a compelling novel that traps the reader between what is real and what is fiction.  The harsh realities of the disaster at Chernobyl are known to almost everyone, yet this knowledge does not at all ruin the suspense of Zabytko's powerful novel.  In fact, the juxtaposition of fact and fiction only helps to relentlessly draw the reader into the tragedy of Marusia's story.<br />The surroundings and culture of the Ukrainian countryside may be foreign to some, but the emotions and reactions of the people are universally recognized and understood.  The reader knows things before the characters do, e.g., that the very air they are breathing is lethal, and this knowledge evokes a strong reaction of the most profound grief.  When Marusia and her family finally come face-to-face with the tragedy, we feel the same desire, the same anger, the same hope as the characters do.  We desperately want someone...anyone...to come along and, impossibly, make things right.<br />The Sky Unwashed is profoundly moving and filled with desperation and sadness.  Yet, it is a gem of a novel that anyone, anywhere can hold close to his heart.	2000-11-16
2209673:US	50718004	R3NS7FRNVOVWO9	0140274960	40693657	Felix in the Underworld	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Delightful and Filled With Surprises	John Mortimer is the writer of many charming and wonderful books, although he is no doubt best known for his stories of Horace Rumpole, the irascible British barrister.  In Felix in the Underworld, Mortimer showcases his comic and satirical talents most admirably.<br />Mortimer reminds me a little of bestselling Japanese novelist, Haruki Murakami, in that his characters in this book are quite ordinary people who live quite ordinary lives but have the absurdly bad fortune of simply being in the wrong place at the wrong time.<br />The protagonist of Felix in the Underworld, Felix Morsom, is a moderately successful, quiet, sensitive novelist at Llama Books who manages to become involved, much against his will, with a man named Gavin Piercey.<br />Soon after meeting Piercey, Felix notices the man everywhere in his life:  at book signings, during radio talk shows and, most especially, at one fateful meeting where Piercey introduces Felix to a woman named Miriam.  This meeting will have serious, but hilarious, repercussions on Felix's life.<br />From the moment Felix meets Miriam, his life becomes one of turmoil and wild, unbelievable events.  He receives a letter from an agency calling itself PROD; he is accused of a brutal murder; he becomes involved with London's homeless population.<br />Mortimer's handling of the plot is superb, his writing as smooth as silk and the characters, although slightly cliched, are still polished and hilarious.  One of the funniest is the lawyer, Septimus Roache, the man Felix turns to in desperation when he attempts to prove his innocence in the murder.  Roache is an obtuse and self-satisfied man who has little to no interest in his clients and really doesn't listen to a word Felix is telling him.<br />Mortimer, who himself was a successful barrister before becoming a writer, knows how to create a rollicking good murder mystery and this is part of why Felix in the Underworld works as well as it does.  Another large part is Felix, himself,an engaging character we can't help but like; a man who maintains his dignity and poise even in the face of adversity of the highest, and most unexpected, order.<br />Mortimer calls himself a &quot;Champagne socialist,&quot; and is a champion of the poor and the downtrodden.  In this book he manages to take us on a trip through contemporary British society, especially homeless society.  The book is fun, though, above all, and never sounds like polemic.  We can credit Mortimer's superb writing skills for that.  <br />The snobbish character of Simon Tubal-Smith, Felix's boss at Llama Books is contrasted wonderfully with Esmond, a homeless man who was, at one time, a manager in a supermarket.  Esmond left his job and home for a life in the streets when tragedy struck.  Felix, himself, spends some time as a member of London's homeless population and is reminiscent of George Orwell's Down and Out in Paris and London.<br />The dialogue is pure Mortimer and always fun.  When Felix is temporarily residing in jail, his cellmate is a man named Dumbarton who allegedly beat another man to death.  &quot;You killed him?&quot; Felix asks.  &quot;Thoroughly,&quot; Dumbarton replies, quite satisfied with what he did.<br />Felix is both self-effacing and hilarious as he attempts to cope with unhelpful lawyers who do just as much to convict as help him, as he tries to sort out the mystery behind PROD, as well as develop his budding relationship with Brenda Bodkin, his publisher's publicity agent.  <br />Although this book is a little formulaic at times, the formula works and works well.  Maybe that is because Mortimer is a master who never lets us down.  Felix in the Underworld is a first-rate murder mystery, a comedy of errors and a satire of the British class system.  It is always delightful and filled with surprises up until the very last page.	2000-11-15
2210508:US	50718004	R17D9LUURYNGT4	067976397X	659658614	Corelli's Mandolin: A Novel	Books	4	15	17	N	N	A Charming and Intelligent Tale of Love	Corelli's Mandolin is a light and witty story that still manages to be infused with the weight of myth.  Set on the tiny Greek island of Cephallonia, Corelli's Mandolin tells the story of Dr. Iannis and his beautiful daughter, Pelagia, against the larger backdrop of the Italian army stationed on the island during World War II.<br />A country doctor without formal education, Dr. Iannis is still very much respected on Cephallonia.  He is a gruff man but one who is still loved, both by the islanders and by his motherless daughter, Pelagia.  As the older inhabitants of the island listen attentively to reports of war driven by Hitler and Il Duce, Pelagia, herself, is intent on finding love.<br />When the Italian army arrives on Cephallonia, Antonio Corelli, a mandolin player and army captain, comes into the lives of Dr. Iannis and Pelagia.  Captain Corelli is a wonderful character, rebellious, irreverent, handsome and exuberant.  For a time, all seems to be right in the world of Cephallonia, despite the war that is raging nearby.<br />Harsh reality finally does make its entrance on Cephallonia as well and when it does the clash between the Italians and the Germans turns happiness into atrocity.  Captain Corelli and Pelagia are two of the characters who get caught up in the suffering.  The book grows darker and darker, and even though the story ends of a note of hope, it is not the hope the reader expected to find.<br />On its surface, Corelli's Mandolin may seem to be a simple love story but it is really so much more.  It is a vivid portrait of a fiercely proud community determined to rebel any way they can.  It is a picture of the horrors of combat during World War II and it is a commentary against the grandiose schemes of world leaders who desire to shape the lives of others to their own design at any cost.<br />Told in and elegant, witty and stylish manner, Corelli's Mandolin is a tragic but uplifting book that will possess the reader more and more with every page heturns.	2000-11-14
2210698:US	50718004	R27JCQKF9R0BV	0140293248	221101137	The Girls' Guide to Hunting and Fishing	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Light and Fun	In The Girls' Guide to Hunting and Fishing, Melissa Bank has created a working-girl heroine who is searching for Mr. Right and who makes all the mistakes along the way.  Jane Rosenal, the protagonist of this first novel has been called another version of Bridget Jones, but if I were Bank I would definitely take offense at that.  Jane is her own person, and much more fully-realized than Bridget Jones could ever be.<br />Jane is someone we actually would enjoy spending time with, someone with whom any woman could imagine sharing the intimate details of her life...and being understood.<br />We first meet Jane as an awkward fourteen year old whose main preoccupation in life is dissecting her brother Henry's behavior with the girlfriends he chooses to bring home.  &quot;I was surprised how long Henry sat with us on the porch, as my mother turned the topic to summer, touching upon such controversial issues as corn on the cob (Silver Queen was best), mosquitoes (pesky), and tennis (good exercise).  Finally, Henry did get up.  He went outside as though on a mission.  He might be going to check on the crab traps or to see if we'd brought the bikes; he could do whatever he wanted...While Mother hostessed and Girlfriend guested, Younger Sister stood up.  When there was a pause in their nicing, I made my mouth move smileward:  I'd love to stay and talk, but I have to go shoot some heroin now.&quot;<br />Jane narrates this book and the chapters jump around to various pivotal points in her life:  a vacation with her first &quot;real&quot; boyfriend; her career as an editorial assistant in the book publishing world of New York City; her relationship with a much-older editor and the death of a family member.  These chapters are witty, fun and poignant, but in between Bank has written odd and unnecessary chapters that are narrated by the woman who lives in the apartment downstairs from Jane.  I kept expecting these chapters to somehow connect with the main plot, but they never did.A mistake, I think.<br />Melissa Bank is definitely a talented writer and this book is an extremely easy read.  The best thing about Jane is the fact that she does make mistakes.  There are no paragons of perfection here.  Jane questions everything about her existence from her self-worth to her choice in clothing.  And she is witty when does so.   &quot;I'd been a rising star,&quot; says Jane, speaking of her career, &quot;until Mimi Howlett, the new executive editor, decided I was just the light of an airplane...It was like she was a different species from me.  She had the lollipop proportions of a model--big head, stick figure, pale skin, wintergreen eyes, and a nose barely big enough to breathe out of...She might have been a romantic heroine from a novel, The Age of Innocence, maybe, except she was with me, in my sacky wool dress, a worker in a documentary about the lumpen proletariat.&quot;<br />The above is funny, to be sure, but the trouble is, sometimes Bank lets jokes get in the way of her story.  Jane has a problem expressing her emotions and seeks to hide behind her sharp and incisive wit, and, although this makes the book both distinctive and interesting, it does detract from emotional intimacy.<br />Bank does capture some things perfectly, though, such as the delicacy of a relationship and all its attendant uncertainties.  When Jane realizes that the older editor really isn't the man for her, she wants to leave him...but she can't--a situation with which almost any woman alive will be able to identify.<br />Far too many readers might dismiss Jane as the epitome of the lonely, single career woman of the modern age.  In some ways, she might be, but she is also a woman who grows, emotionally and spiritually, throughout this book until she comes to know what it is she is really seeking.<br />The Girls' Guide to Hunting and Fishing is a light and entertaining book that, for the most part, is very well written.  The fact that it contains no deep messages or profound, universal truths shouldn't stop anyone from reading and enjoying it to the fullest.	2000-11-14
2211547:US	50718004	R157GJGATR0PH	0385333757	64473411	Losing Julia	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A Lovely Debut	Jonathan Hull has written a lovely debut novel in Losing Julia.  It is difficult to portray strong emotions such as grief, love and intense fear without crossing the line into trite and overwrought sentimentality, yet Hull manages to pull it off.<br />Losing Julia is told from the point-of-view of eighty-one year old Patrick Delaney and takes us back through his life as a soldier in the trenches of France in World War I, then ten years later to a chance meeting with his best friend's fiancée, Julia, to the present day.<br />Losing Julia is an elegantly written book about love, the loss of love and the ravages of war on the individual psyche.  Although parts of the book can be horrifying, Hull wisely gives us touches of warm-hearted humor as well.  The stereotypical &quot;crotchety old man,&quot; Patrick is, by turns, poetic and sardonic, but he is always lovable.<br />In the hands of a lesser writer, Losing Julia might have easily become melodramatic...the stuff of a television daytime soap opera, but Hull's writing is so good, so elegant, so classy, that most readers will find they can't help but share Patrick's thoughts and want to make them their own.<br />Patrick is certainly no cookie-cutter character.  He grows and changes immensely from the time he is a struggling, young poet trying to come to terms with life in the war to the wise and sometimes witty old man in the nursing home.  He never has all the answers, but he really doesn't feel he needs them.  I found Hull, and Patrick, to be so correct about our tendency to let the present slip by when Patrick says, &quot;I don't think we ever really live in the present; instead, we're either just this side of the past or the future, wavering anxiously between anticipation and recollection.&quot;<br />Hull's descriptions of the battle scenes in World War I are filled with detail, although some of them do border on the purple.  Of one battle, Patrick's says, &quot;That night in the darkness amid the moans and the lingering smell of cordite I realized that the earth itself was bleeding, its wrists slashed deep down to the arteries along a line called the Western Front.  I wondered how long it would take to hemorrhage to death.&quot;  It's elegant writing, sure, but I really doubt that men in battle think this way.<br />This is not a book that describes war in the graphic way that can be found in Stephen Wright's Meditations in Green, nor is it a book that, I think, that will achieve the staying power of Mark Helprin's sweeping classic, A Soldier of the Great War.  It is, however, a warm and wonderful story of love and friendship, of loss and gain, and, although the ending is a bit unbelievable, the character of Patrick is still so well-drawn that Losing Julia is an enjoyable and very worthwhile novel.	2000-11-13
2213083:US	50718004	RUU4HHNWKMS0Q	0811213943	814946818	A Werewolf Problem in Central Russia and Other Stories	Books	5	26	26	N	N	The Sublime and The Ridiculous	A Werewolf Problem in Central Russia, a collection of short stories, exhibits both the joys and the challenges of reading someone as brilliantly absurd as Russia's Victor Pelevin.  The tamest of these eight stories is surreal, the most complex is, at times, simply impenetrable.  At times, Pelevin addresses universal themes with tremendous insight; at other times his satire is so specifically Russian that anyone not well-versed in Russian history will find the subject matter less than understandable.  And, although Pelevin appears to be striving for a light mood, at least in some of the stories, the gloomy and pessimistic specter of the former Soviet Union casts its shadow over the volume as a whole.<br />A Werewolf Problem in Central Russia can be seen as both a tribute to Dostoyevsky and as a radical departure from him, for these characters are loners who are simply not aware that they are loners.  The Tarzan Swing is a Pelevin story that is very reminiscent of Dostoyevsky's story, The Double.  It comes as a shock to the protagonist of Tarzan's Swing to realize that he is carrying on a conversation with a companion that might be nothing more than his shadow.  Unlike The Double, however, the protagonist in Pelevin's story is never really sure if this &quot;companion&quot; is real or not.<br />All of Pelevin's rather narcissistic characters wander through their post-perestroika days in a dreamlike state obsessing on the meaning of life.  They exist outside of themselves and seem to take it in stride that the physical world is compromised by spatial and temporal impossibilities, that a universe exists in a teapot, that dream landscapes are superimposed on real ones and that Russia is but a sewer cover away from China.  And, while Dostoyevsky's characters are bogged down by paranoid delusions, Pelevin's characters always seem to find themselves faced with the empty but ultimately self-satisfying prospect of solipsism, and they take it for granted that the world is in akind of surreal flux.<br />The title story tells the tale of a traveler who becomes hopelessly lost in central Russia and is transformed into a werewolf.  Surprisingly, he likes it and he finds it a very liberating experience.  This story, told in a linear manner, is no doubt the most accessible of the entire volume.  Pelevin gives us stunning detail so we are able to feel how the character moves and smells and sees.  The story's placement at the beginning of the collection provides the perfect entree to the lunacy that is Victor Pelevin's trademark.<br />The Ontology of Childhood is more difficult to grasp, especially for those not familiar with Russian history or Russian literature, but it is a more accomplished piece of writing and showcases Pelevin's unique talent most admirably.  Written in the second person, The Ontology of Childhood is a chilling recollection of growing up in a prison and blends powerful remembrances of dark pessimism with expressions of profound hope.<br />Pelevin's uncanny ability to render eerie, off-center dreamscapes makes him the Salvador Dali of literature.  He is a wordsmith who successfully mixes the sublime with the ridiculous and comes up with wildly turbulent tales that are always more than interesting and thought provoking.  They are, in their essence, nothing short of great literature.	2000-11-12
2213856:US	50718004	R18G2MM99BVGHE	1565122461	216751265	The Sky Unwashed	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Requiem for Starylis	On 26 April 1986, a catastrophic accident at the Chernobyl power plant in what is now the Ukraine, sent a massive cloud of radioactive particles into the stratosphere.  After Swedish detectors picked up the radiation in the atmosphere, the news of the accident made headlines around the world, reigniting debates on the safety of nuclear power plants.<br />Although the Soviet government was unable to deny the accident, they did their best to downplay the results and the stories of human suffering were, and still remain, largely untold.  In The Sky Unwashed, Irene Zabytko tells us a very personal tale that seeks to correct this deplorable situation.<br />Despite several hundred years of industrial progress, the Ukrainian countryside remains surprisingly rural and backward.  Although some farm machinery can be seen, for the most part, the planting and harvesting is still done through manual labor.  Abundant grazing lands abound, meaning readily available beef and dairy products for the farmers, more so than for their fellow citizens in urban centers such as Kiev.<br />At first glance, one might assume the small village of Starylis to be nothing more than a peasant village.  A second glance, however, will reveal its high percentage of young people...people who are employed as electricians and construction workers at the nearby Chernobyl nuclear power plant.<br />The protagonist of The Sky Unwashed is Marusia Petrenko, one of the older women of the village.  Marusia views the habits of the young people with disdain and scorn.  After all, she, herself, has survived political and personal turmoil that include a World War, the ravages of Stalinism and desertion by her husband.  Understandably, she tends to turn to her Orthodox religion for guidance and comfort rather than to her government.  Marusia, however, is a woman who is satisfied with her life.  She is happy she can share her home with her grown son, Yurko, his wife, Zosia and Yurko and Zosia's two children.  While all is not perfect in Marusia's world, it is not too bad, either.<br />At a Palm Sunday religious service, a few of the villagers remark on the sound of an explosion the night before, while several others express concern over the absence of relatives due home after the Chernobyl plant's second shift.  Women notice a metallic tang in the air, yet no one really shows any undue alarm.  If something were amiss at the plant, they reason, surely their government would let them know.<br />It isn't until several days after the accident, when the villagers are gathered together and sent to Kiev, that they realize something must be terribly wrong.  They are, however, never told exactly why they must leave Starylis nor when they may return.  Even more shocking, there are no provisions for their continued existence once they arrive in Kiev.<br />As time passes and the people around her sicken and die, Marusia realizes that all she wants to do is return to the only home she has ever known...Starylis...despite the cautions and the dangers.  She is a well-drawn and believable character, so her desires are understandable and we empathize with her plight, even if we objectively see her wishes as unsound.<br />The Sky Unwashed is a compelling novel that traps the reader between what is real and what is fiction.  The harsh realities of the disaster at Chernobyl are known to almost everyone, yet this knowledge does not at all ruin the suspense of Zabytko's powerful novel.  In fact, the juxtaposition of fact and fiction only helps to relentlessly draw the reader into the tragedy of Marusia's story.<br />The surroundings and culture of the Ukrainian countryside may be foreign to some, but the emotions and reactions of the people are universally recognized and understood.  The reader knows things before the characters do, e.g., that the very air they are breathing is lethal, and this knowledge evokes a strong reaction of the most profound grief.  When Marusia and her family finally come face-to-face with the tragedy, we feel the same desire, the same anger, the same hope as the characters do.  We desperately want someone...anyone...to come along and, impossibly, make things right.<br />The Sky Unwashed is profoundly moving and filled with desperation and sadness.  Yet, it is a gem of a novel that anyone, anywhere can hold close to his heart.	2000-11-11
2214111:US	50718004	R2EMBL012T39D	038531521X	736592830	Meditations in Green	Books	5	41	43	N	N	Bitter and Shocking but Brilliant	James Griffin uses drugs, not to forget the Vietnam War, but to remember.  Home, in the United States, James finds life rife with loneliness and alienation.  The Vietnam War, he tells us, really didn't mean anything; all of the fighting was, and will become, fruitless.<br />James' girlfriend, Huey, is a painter of sorts who paints graffiti on walls, graffiti she calls &quot;soulographs.&quot;  These soulographs are huge abstractions of the war.  James' wall is covered with them, so he whitewashes all of his walls and asks Huey to paint something new.  But while she is in the process, the old soulographs begin to bleed through, causing James to experience a flashback to his Vietnam years where he imagines himself in the middle of battle with flashes and flares and rifles all around.<br />In a surrealistic and utterly brilliant and original manner, Wright manages to show us all the similarities of the Vietnam War and life as we lead it on a day-to-day basis.  His protagonist, James, realizes these connections and begins to meditate, to escape these similarities, to escape the absurdity of life, both then and now.<br />Meditations in Green is a highly symbolic and surreal book.  Wright, one of the most brilliant and original writers of the twentieth century, writes this novel in a very elusive manner, using very elusive narrative strategies and structural principles, organizing the book in interesting, overlapping, spiraling circles, which often echo, duplicate and bleed through one another much in the way Huey's soulographs do.<br />By attempting to devolve himself down to a plant form, James hopes to purge himself of his memories and antipathy towards nature and its eternal cycle of birth and death and rebirth.  He is, like all of Wright's characters, very flawed, but these very flaws are what make him so human and let us identify with him and his sufferings.<br />Stephen Wright is a brilliant writer, but one whose extremism has caused him to be sadly undervalued bythe general public.  For some reason, I don't believe Wright care much about this.  We should care, however, for Wright is brilliant, original, creative and absurd.  His books are surrealism, black comedy, absurdism and postmodern literature of the very highest order.  Wright is a writer not to be missed by anyone even remotely interested in great literature, postmodern or otherwise.	2000-11-11
2214270:US	50718004	RUX7H2FQSXT0F	1559212292	500603688	The Artist's Widow: A Novel	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Purple Sentimental Ink	The Artist's Widow is a disappointing book.  Written by an excellent author, I really expected more.  In fact, quite a bit more.<br />In The Artist's Widow, images of Bereavement abound.  After a long and devoted marriage, a painter's widow is attending a retrospective showing of her late husband's work.  As she looks at his paintings, she can't help but reflect, as though her husband were also present in the room:  &quot;It was the sort of party John and Lyris Crane hated.&quot;<br />Later, amid the snobbery and insincerity of an inexpensive dinner give by the gallery owner, ostensibly in Lyris' honor, but filled with people she doesn't even know, she comes to have other, more intensely personal feelings for John:  &quot;Lyris felt a pang of envy for John, among the flowers and berries of the crematorium gardens.  But the trees would be gathering darkness now, the reeds and bullrushes whispering, a chilly dew rising to meet the rain.  Time to come indoors.&quot;  <br />At home, Lyris takes off her tight blue dress shoes and dons a pair of John's worn slippers.  &quot;Kind boats,&quot; she thinks.  These two words tell us more about the marriage of John and Lyris Crane and evoke an empathy that many writers cannot evoke with an entire book filled with words.<br />The Artist's Widow is a finely-drawn portrait of Lyris, herself a painter, and the emotions she faces as she rallies against sorrow, solitude, frailty, confusion and fear that surrounds an eighty-year-old woman and the seemingly uncaring, forbidding world of outsiders.<br />Shena MacKay, a Scottish novelist, is a wonderful writer, a true master of words, and, although the portrait of Lyris is a wonderfully-drawn one, the book, itself, is still fatally-flawed.<br />In her best books, primarily, The Orchard on Fire and An Advent Calendar, MacKay characterizes villains as Britains who are politically, economically or culturally privileged.  They are atrocious characters and people we love to hate.  Her heroes,on the other hand, tend to be misused, sparky, angelic; the downtrodden who manage, somehow, to take wing and fly.  Although this may seem contrived in an author of lesser talent, MacKay gets away with it because she really knows how to be elusive, how to use sudden shifts and reversals in time and how to write magical passages filled with intensity, energy and sometimes, comedy.<br />In The Artist's Widow, MacKay misses the mark.  Surprisingly so for someone so talented.  Although Lyris is a wonderful character, her sadness is reduced to a mere grimace and the other characters are, sadly, no more than mere cliches.  The &quot;bad&quot; ones are exaggerated out of proportion while the &quot;good&quot; ones are just too pat and pallid, as are the comeuppances for the former and the rewards for the latter.<br />One of the &quot;bad&quot; characters is Nathan, Lyris' great-nephew by marriage.  Nathan is a young artist on the make; a man who sees that none of his friends gets ahead and whose friends see that he doesn't, either.  Although his repulsiveness is patently obvious to us, Nathan, himself, feels it to be nothing less than cutting-edge.<br />MacKay, usually so very good, experiences a lapse with The Artist's Widow.  In describing Nathan she says, &quot;His eyelids, with a bristle of pale lashes, were tender and his eyes dull green and hard.&quot;  Later, Nathan becomes &quot;a pond with green scum on its surface.&quot;<br />Nathan, unfortunately, is not the only victim of language-overkill.  One unfortunate woman is nicknamed &quot;The Wounded Squid&quot; because &quot;she was so clinging and so easily hurt into squirting her purple sentimental ink over everything.&quot;<br />Even Lyris' dead husband is not spared.  MacKay writes, &quot;The last canvases burned with the brilliant chemical derangement of autumn when the slow fuses smoldering up the stalks of senescent leaves burst into mineral fire.&quot;<br />Despite his awfulness, and Nathan is awful, he really is no more than a cardboard cutout.  And then there is Zoe, who seems to harbor some redemptive value.  She however, is nothing more than a false start that soon peters out.<br />On the side of the &quot;good&quot; guys, there is Jackie, a victim of racism who is far too far-fetched to be believable, Candy and Clovis, the gentle but confused bookseller.<br />The dispensations of justice in this book come all too quickly and patently and the characters seem to be playing a role into which they are forced.  Shena MacKay, to her credit, is not a tidy author, but in The Artist's Widow, she is downright confusing.  Read Shena MacKay, by all means, but read An Advent Calendar or The Orchard on Fire rather than The Artist's Widow.  The first two are really first-rate books, books that are worthy of this wonderfully-talented author.	2000-11-11
2214490:US	50718004	R1ACG4LBAPXQ44	0375701427	79852712	American Pastoral: American Trilogy (1) (Vintage International)	Books	5	21	24	N	N	An Elegy for American Innocence	Philip Roth won the Pulitzer Prize for this riveting, quietly horrifying novel that shatters the idyllic illusion of an America that once might have been, but will be no more.  American Pastoral is a brilliant commentary on our inability to effectively see beneath the surface of apparent well-being and contentment in others.  The first of the &quot;Zuckerman trilogy,&quot; (which ends with The Human Stain), American Pastoral recalls and builds on Roth's most accomplished and self-referential fiction of the past.<br />As the novel opens, Skip Zuckerman, the childless, unattached, first-person narrator of the trilogy has a chance meeting with a boyhood hero at a baseball game.  This hero is Swede Levov, an older man who is still, impossibly blonde, blue-eyed and youthful; a legend within his predominantly Jewish neighborhood.  Swede is the very embodiment of &quot;America&quot; and all that &quot;being American&quot; stands for.  He is, Skip is sure, incapable of living anything but the perfect, and perfectly rewarding, life.<br />Swede's brother, Jerry, was Skip's best friend, so when Swede asks for a meeting with Skip, Skip is a little puzzled but not all that surprised.  Swede, however, doesn't ask anything specific of Skip, but talks of his sons and his memories of Newark before and during World War II.  This meeting, though, is pivotal to the novel's central question and its meaning soon becomes crystal clear.<br />As the novel progresses, Skip attends his high school reunion and, while making note of the various deficiencies shared by the sixtyish men and women in attendance, becomes convinced that no human being ever really knows or understands another.  He is depressed by all the conversation about cancer, divorce and the various problems associated with growing older.  It is Jerry, though, Swede's brother, who tells Skip the one thing that will disillusion more than any other.<br />Roth's brilliance as well as his masterful and well-crafted prose draw us intoAmerican Pastoral and allow us to participate in the mundane life experiences of its characters as if those experiences were our very own.  We live through school reunions, failed marriages, duplicity and waste as Skip proceeds to a more detailed examination of the life of Swede Levov.<br />Swede's life, Skip finds out, was nothing like he had imagined it would be.  Obsessed, Skip begins a novel that focuses on the life of Swede Levov.  Although Skip is making up a lot of his book as he goes along, the story is nonetheless true and it is a story that will resonate painfully with anyone who has ever felt alone, in control, out of control, or who has thought that he or she knew all about someone they have cared about deeply.  As the facts about Swede Levov's life slowly unfold, as his secrets are unearthed, the glossy veneer of satisfaction, contentment and perfection begins to slip away from his life.  As the man behind the persona is fully revealed, we come to realize, with Skip Zuckerman, that in anyone's life, one torment can, and often does, lead to more and more agony until its inevitability is appalling.<br />American Pastoral is more of an impassioned dialogue with its readers than a convincing and linear story.  This is not a warm and comforting book that will leave a glow in your heart after the last page.  In fact, its most convincing and most powerfully-written passages are those in which Swede and Skip discuss and reflect upon human nature's congenital loneliness.<br />American Pastoral is a painful book; it is a book that explores a dark and lonely side of human nature.  But it is masterfully written, in prose that is spare and elegant and, above all, authentic.  At its heart, American Pastoral is a gorgeous elegy for the American Dream; a funeral ode to an innocence that has long since passed away.	2000-11-11
2214542:US	50718004	R1GRAAN2OUTNCV	0374110131	697393202	Being Dead: A Novel	Books	5	81	87	N	N	The Neverending Days of Being Dead	Jim Crace is an extravagantly gifted writer and Being Dead is a rare interweaving of writerly panache and common human emotion; an extravagantly beautiful book about a subject that some find horrifying.<br />As the novel opens, two middle-aged zoologists, Jospeh and Celice, in a nostalgic mood, return to the very strip of beach where they first made love more than thirty years before.  Nostalgia, though, at least in Being Dead, comes with a very high price.  It gives nothing of the plot away to say that this couple are brutally and senselessly murdered on this strip of beach by a psychopathic thief.  Their deaths come at the beginning of the book and are the very incident upon which all others turn.<br />As Jospeh's and Celice's half-naked bodies lie undiscovered in the dunes for days, Crace describes the process of their corruption and dissolution and, in alternating chapters, the story of how they met, fell in love and first made love on that morning now so long ago.  Later chapters introduce one further character:  the couple's daughter, Syl, a lost child in more ways than one.  The death of Joseph and Celice, in some ways, marks the beginning of Syl's life.<br />The book seems to be reviving the age-old practice of &quot;quivering&quot; the dead in which guests stand around the dead one's home and bed, making strange noises and shaking &quot;quiver sticks&quot; until the entire house rattles &quot;as if a thousand crows were pecking at the roof.&quot;  As they &quot;quivered,&quot; the guests would reminisce about the dead until, &quot;Their memories, exposed to the backward-running time of quiverings in which regrets became prospects, resentments became love, experience became hope, would up-end the hour-glass of Celice and Jospeh's life together and let the sands reverse.&quot;  Quivering is supposed to release any evil spirits that may be inhabiting the body and help to speed the soul on its journey toward heaven.<br />&quot;Quivering,&quot; however believable it seems to be, and it does seem to be believable, is Crace's invention.  Yet we believe in it, just as we believe in the characters of Joseph and Celice.  Crace's prose is that good; he is a master at hypnotic word-spinning.<br />In writing about death, Crace has managed to write a book about life and about the celebration of life as well as about chance and loss and struggle and hope and love.  Jospeh and Celice were people who knew the details of the physical aspects of death and who now must suffer them in the most intimate manner possible. <br />There is more in this book than death though, and the careful reader will not miss it.  Just before dying, Joseph manages to reach out and grasp his wife's leg.  This final gesture of love outlives them both, surviving rain, insects, and seagulls, and is destroyed only when the police intervene.  This intervention is one of the saddest incidents in the book. <br />Some readers will learn more than they ever wanted to about the biological ravages of being beaten to death.  But even the highly detailed descriptions of the couple's decomposition take on a poetic and moving quality:  &quot;The bodies were discovered straight away.  A beetle first.  Claudatus maximi.  A male.  Then the raiding parties arrived, drawn by the summons of fresh wounds and the smell of urine:  swag flies and crabs, which normally would have to make do with rat dung and the carcasses of fish for their carrion.  Then a gull.  No one, except the newspapers, could say that 'There was only Death amongst the dunes, that summer's afternoon.'&quot;   The problem for some readers will be that the above flora and fauna simply do not exist...outside of Crace's imagination.  But it is this very selective inventiveness, these minute surprises, that weave a gossamer web of black comedy around the decay and loss of death. <br />Much of Crace's lyrical prose is lyrical simply because it is written in iambics.  After her parents are buried, Syl, sitting on the steps of the church and listening to the hymns thinks of them as being &quot;as thin as water, and as nourishing.&quot;  Crace, himself, describes the hymns in hymn meter, of course.  &quot;Love songs transcend, transport, because there's such a thing as love.  But hymns and prayers have feeble tunes because there are no gods.&quot;<br />Crace is obviously an artist; a writer's writer of the highest order.  Being Dead is a novel of surrealistic beauty and that is what redeems it and sets it apart from other books that touch on similar subjects.  Crace has managed to turn even the state of death into a meditation on the various cycles of life.  He seems to lament the discovery of the bodies and the arrival of those who would &quot;rescue&quot; the mortal remains of Jospeh and Celice.  &quot;The dunes could have disposed of Joseph and Celice themselves.  They didn't need help.  The earth is practiced in the craft of burial.  It embraces and adopts the dead.  Joseph and Celice would have turned to landscape, given time. They would become nothing special.  Gulls die.  And so do flies and crabs.  So do the seals.  Even stars must decompose, disrupt and blister on the sky.  Everything was born to go.  The universe has learned to cope with death.&quot;  One of the strongest statements Crace makes about death comes near the end of the book, nine days after the death of Joseph and Celine, when even the very grass they had been lying in has recovered and not a trace of the couple remains.<br />In Being Dead, Crace copes with dying in a very ordinary manner that manages to become most extraordinary, and, in so doing, he shows us the beauty inherent in something as natural and commonplace as the death of the physical body...a death not one of us will manage to escape.  Death may be seen by some as an ending, but in Being Dead it is the most efficient and most exquisite continuation of life imaginable.	2000-11-11
2214835:US	50718004	R2GUDCEDV41P8G	1878448900	180693945	Girl in Hyacinth Blue	Books	5	63	67	N	N	A Fascinating Journey Through Time	When a shy, private-school math teacher, Cornelius Engelbrecht, discovers a canvas thought to be a Vermeer, Girl in Hyacinth Blue, a touching and beautifully-written book, begins a fascinating journey back through time to trace the history of the painting.<br />Engelbrecht's father's dying words had been, &quot;An eye like a blue pearl,&quot; referring to the female figure in the painting, that of a young woman in a blue smock and rust-colored skirt, standing beside an open window.  Although Cornelius feels captivated by the painting, he also feels a sense of shame at how it came to be in his father's possession.<br />From the revelation of what, exactly, the elder Engelbrecht did, we then move backward through time from the point of view of one owner to another, all the way back to the painting's point of origin.  Each time the painting changes hands, there are high hopes, a time of optimism, until it finally falls into Cornelius' hands and he realizes how it has been tainted by history.  The single thread running through each story, the one that connects each character, is this lovely painting, the painting of the Girl in Hyacinth Blue.<br />One of the most fascinating things about this lovely little book are the details of family life and the history that can be found in each vignette.  Like the painting, each &quot;story-within-the-novel&quot; seems to be a frozen moment in time and Vreeland's language in painting her own word portrait is both formal and concise as she offers lush detail and wonderful insight.  Much in the book is tender and sad and it truly touches the heart.  We feel the pain of these characters and identify with their suffering.  They are real people and we can almost believe the painting is real as well.<br />The central section of the book, and the one that is most fascinating, is called &quot;Morningshine,&quot; and focuses on a Dutch family who are isolated in their farmhouse and surrounded by floodwaters.  The following passage is indicative of Vreeland's beautiful, but rather spare, prose:<br />&quot;Saskia opened the back shutters and looked out the upstairs south window early the second morning after the flood.  Their farmhouse was an island apart from the world.  Vapors of varying gray made the neighboring four farmhouses indistinct, yet there was a shine on the water like the polished pewter of her mother's kitchen back home.  Let the waters under the heavens be gathered together unto one place, and let the dry land appear, and it was so, she thought.  But it wasn't so.  And the cow would have to stay upstairs with them until it was so, however long that was, stay upstairs messing the floor and taking up half the room.&quot;<br />The above-passage clearly shows Vreeland's talent for evoking a sense of time and place.  This is in evidence throughout the book and makes it highly atmospheric and charged with the energy of the times.<br />Moments of serendipity are scattered through Girl in Hyacinth Blue as are the harsh realities of the times:  hunger, poverty, misery.  At one point, in Saskia's story, she is scolded by her husband for feeding their hungry children the seed potatoes he intended to plant in the spring.<br />This is a fascinating and extremely well-written book, a little masterpiece, just like the Vermeer it creates.  It is a book that will appeal to readers of popular literature and those with more literary tastes as well as to art lovers everywhere.  Beauty, says Vreeland, is necessary to life.  Judging from the beauty of this book, beauty might be just as necessary to life as are next season's seed potatoes.	2000-11-10
2217264:US	50718004	R366PE66EGW51W	0618059458	301023145	The Human Stain	Books	5	149	154	N	N	The Unknowable and Elusive Truth	The Human Stain completes Philip Roth's thematic American trilogy, a meditation on the historical forces in the latter half of the twentieth century that have destroyed many innocent lives.  In this trilogy, Roth takes devastating aim at the &quot;American dream&quot; and its empty promises of prosperity, freedom and everlasting happiness.<br />The trilogy began with American Pastoral, which some believe to be the high point in Roth's career.  American Pastoral explored the effects of late-sixties radicalism on the idyllic life of Swede Levov and his family.  I Married a Communist, the second book of the trilogy, was somewhat of a disappointment after the near-perfect American Pastoral, but it was still an engrossing story about the McCarthy era, a portrait of a country in which paranoia had displaced reason, allowing rumor and innuendo to run rampant and ruin lives.<br />The Human Stain closes the trilogy and brings us to the year 1998.  The United States is awash in the Clinton-Lewinsky scandal and citizens feel the &quot;ecstasy of sanctimony;&quot; they are ready to accuse, blame and punish a very good president for what amounts to nothing more than the sexual peccadilloes almost every person becomes involved in at some time during his life.<br />On its surface, The Human Stain condemns the political correctness of McCarthyism that effectively turns college campuses away from creative thought and toward middle-aged, white, male oppression at any cost.  Does this make The Human Stain a campus satire?  Yes, but it is so much more and those who think it is not are simply missing the book's deepest level.  It is, at its heart, a sad and poignant statement on the very essence of human nature, a statement that, in Roth's talented hands, becomes utterly convincing.  It reminds us of our very unpraiseworthy proclivity to condemn, sully and even find some secret and voluptuous joy in ruining the name of others and delivering their lives into the hands of misery.  The real truth, Roth tells us, is both &quot;endless&quot; and unknowable, no matter how much we may wish to label it with our petty accusations.  Most of us, however, find this unknowability unacceptable, and so, we leave our own unmistakable &quot;human stain&quot; in our wake.<br />Coleman Silk, Roth's protagonist in The Human Stain, understands truth's unknowablility all too well.  This seventy-one year old professor, who was once a beloved classicist of Athena College, now faces a scandal much like the one faced by President Clinton.  And, like Clinton, Silk has done a very good job; his efforts as dean have left their mark of excellence.  Athena College is all the better for his having been there, just as the United States is all the better for the Clinton years.  Nevertheless, Silk finds himself accused of being both a racist and a misogynist.<br />Shamed publicly, Silk does exact revenge, but revenge for what?  What exactly is the truth in this matter?  While those in Silk's community want to see &quot;truth&quot; as a matter of black and white, the novel's narrator, Nathan Zuckerman tells us that &quot;truth,&quot; at least in this case, if not in every case, is something that is more nuanced, more grey.  And, in a delightfully ironic twist, we learn that Silk has a secret to share, one that makes his accusers turn beet-red with embarrassment rather than with exhilaration.<br />Nathan Zuckerman, Roth's own alter-ego, has appeared in eight of his novels, including the first two of this trilogy.  He is the man in whom the reader must place his trust, or his mistrust.  Zuckerman willingly admits that he knows only certain facts about his protagonists, that he must rely on his own innate gift for storytelling to convince us of the things that he, himself, sees so clearly, and that we are certainly free to accept or deny his version as we will.<br />Roth could have chosen to tell his story from the vantage point of an objective, omniscient narrator and thus allowed usaccess to the thoughts and feelings of all the characters involved.  At first glance, this might seem to have been the wiser choice.  A second glance, however, will show us it would have been a travesty, an audacious claim to actually know what the elusive and unknowable truth really is.  Telling the story from the point-of-view of the highly subjective Zuckerman is tantamount to an admission of the elusiveness of truth; it is allowing us to form our own opinions without manipulation from either the author or from any of his characters.  It is, genius.<br />If there is any blemish, however slight, in this wonderful literary achievement, it is the character of Les Farley.  Les is the now-cliched Vietnam veteran; a man suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder, the weary, misunderstood and maligned soldier who has been abandoned by a country for whom he was willing to give up his very life.  Roth uses Farley as a plot device only, and he is one that fails to convince in an otherwise overwhelmingly convincing book.<br />Roth's prose is, as always, without rival.  His Jamesian sentences twist and turn with a vitality and energy that, at times, can seem almost frantic.  But Roth never jeopardizes his lucidity; he is a linguistic master who can take us on the most tumultuous ride with an ease and smoothness that other authors can only dream about.<br />The Human Stain is Philip Roth at the top of his form.  It is also American fiction at its very finest and a book that is definitely not to be missed.	2000-11-08
2218310:US	50718004	R2X8311DYENHIH	0060931582	876694899	Breakfast on Pluto: A Novel	Books	4	7	8	N	N	The Silly and The Sentimental	Music plays a part in this novel and the title itself was taken from a song recorded by Don Partridge in 1969.  The lyrics are silly:  &quot;Go anywhere without leaving your chair/and let your thoughts run free/Living within all the dreams you can spin/There is so much to see.&quot;  Silly or not, these lyrics are central to the plot of Breakfast on Pluto.<br />Set in the tumultuous Ireland of the 1960s and 1970s, Breakfast on Pluto is the story of a transvestite named Paddy &quot;Pussy&quot; Braden, a character who uses the silly and the sentimental as a shield against the horrors of the modern world.<br />The book is written as a memoir.  Paddy, who has a crush on his psychologist, Terence, pens the memoir, ostensibly for the benefit of Terence and his (Paddy's) own analysis, but he does harbor ulterior motives all his own.  The tone of the novel is flirtatious, effusive and, at times, completely unreliable.  The details of Paddy's life are predictably sordid, unsavory and truly awful.<br />Paddy has been abandoned by just about everyone and Breakfast on Pluto is thus a novel about loss and love and the loss of love, about violence and loveless sex and even encroaching insanity.  McCabe, however, is such a talented writer that he can, and does, relate these depressing details in a prose style so vivid, so utterly original and lively and witty that Paddy Braden becomes almost charming.  He is, by turns, caustic, sardonic, colorful, naïve, explosive, poignant and yes, even hilarious.  He is simply one of the most audacious characters I have ever met, and this audacity, combined with the glee with which he relates the horrible events in which he take sheer delight, only makes him all the more compelling.<br />The son of a priest and a beautiful woman who looked like Mitzi Gaynor, Paddy grew up in patriarchal, provincial Ireland unloved and unwanted in the home of a wicked foster mother.  Paddy is not a character who was able to transcend the bad and turn negatives into positives.  The absence of maternal affection in his life affects him deeply and he turns to silly, attention-getting antics.<br />As Paddy matures, his penchant for women's clothing grows.  It is a penchant that certainly doesn't endear him to his neighbors.  Paddy, though, really doesn't care.  Although it might be hard to believe, some of the book's funniest and most poignant moments, as well as some of the best dialogue, come when Paddy's frilly and fussy sensibilities clash with the grim reality of civil war.<br />A recurring theme of McCabe's is his perception of hypocrisy in the Catholic church.  In Breakfast on Pluto, McCabe explores this perceived hypocrisy in an eccentric and hilarious manner.  Nowhere is it highlighted better than in a scene where Paddy goes into a church to confront his father.  We realize that Paddy:  sodomite, thief, liar, cheat, is no more of a sinner than is his sanctimonious father or the pious souls who come into the priest's confessional to bare their sins and be purified.<br />As the book gains momentum, so does the cycle of violence and counter-violence and Paddy, for a time, escapes to England where things are different, but not much better.  From this point on, the book deals in real trouble:  torture, murder and betrayal.<br />While some of the campy plotline has been left behind, Paddy's unique voice can still be heard.  As his problems reach grotesque proportions, Paddy seeks his salvation, in, of all things, a bottle of Chanel No. 5.  Even when Paddy returns to Ireland (for what Irishman can remain out of Ireland for long?), his indomitable spirit keeps him afloat.  The silly and the sentimental are, for Paddy Braden, more than song lyrics.  They are, sadly, his only source of hope.	2000-11-07
2218407:US	50718004	R2ZAZBC8N87D6R	038533334X	575060326	Charming Billy	Books	5	21	23	N	N	A Warm and Wise Investigation of Life	On the afternoon of Billy Lynch's funeral, his family and friends gather at a New York restaurant to discuss this charismatic man whom &quot;everyone loved&quot; and who, apparently, &quot;died of drink.&quot;  Questions abound:  Why would Billy drink himself to death?  How unhappy was he in his marriage to the plain-but-faithful Maeve?  And what of Eva, his first love?  If Billy had managed to have a future with Eva, would his life have taken a different turn?  Was Billy's pathetic outcome just a matter of fate?<br />The narrator of Charming Billy is a cousin-once-removed of the protagonist, the daughter of Billy's best friend, Dennis, and probably the author's alter ego.  Although intelligent and perceptive, the narrator is also rather critical of the pride, prejudice, sexism, racism, faith and clannish behavior she observes in her elders.<br />Charming Billy is a wonderful story of second and third-generation Irish-Americans, most of whom are blood relatives and live and love and laugh and drink and work for Consolidated Edison in the Queens borough of New York City.  In the hands of a lesser author, a book such as Charming Billy might be one in which we would soon lose interest, but McDermott, a wonderful writer, brings Billy to life as well as illuminating the lives of this tightly-knit Irish-American community.<br />The opening scene, in a restaurant following Billy's funeral, is a brilliant social satire reminiscent of James T. Farrell's stories about Irish-Americans in Chicago, Can All This Grandeur Perish, written in 1937.  McDermott, however, is less scathing, more sentimental and humorous, than was Farrell.<br />The characters in Charming Billy are warmly and well-drawn.  They all have names like Dennis and Danny and Kevin and Rosemary and Bridie and Maeve.  They are patriotic Americans, to be sure, but still proud of their Irish heritage and some of them even speak with a brogue.  Part of the value of this warm and wonderful novel lies in the concern andrespect with which McDermott treats past and current Irish-American issues.<br />McDermott writes in prose so masterful that we can almost hear the delightful Irish lilt in the voices of the speakers.  There is a beautifully rhythmic cadence that captures the ebb and flow of conversation perfectly and one that never fails to involve the reader on an intensely emotional level.  At the post-funeral dinner, Billy's sister takes the pragmatic view that &quot;Alcoholism isn't a decision, it's a disease, and Billy would have had the disease whether he married the Irish girl or Maeve, whether he'd had kids nor not...Every alcoholic's life is pretty much the same.&quot;  Billy's bachelor friend and drinking partner, Dan Lynch, defends Billy, taking a more romantic view of Billy's life:  &quot;I just don't think it credits a man's life to say he was in the clutches of a disease and that's what ruined him.  Say he was too loyal.  Say he was disappointed...But give him some credit for feeling, for having a hand in his own fate.&quot;<br />Why did Billy Lynch's life turn out so miserably?  Why did this charming and lovable man &quot;die of drink?&quot;  That is the central mystery, the question on which this novel of personal revelation turns.  As the narrator tries to make sense of Billy's life, she finds herself also investigating both her father's life and her own as well.  As she uncovers first one fact and then another, the mystery of &quot;why&quot; and &quot;why not&quot; only deepens.<br />It cannot be denied that Billy Lynch was a man seduced by the bar.  &quot;A world where love...could be spoken of by a hand on the shoulder, a fresh drink placed on the bar, Good to see you, through welling tears, real ones now, Ah, Billy, it's always good to see you.  Dark, sparkling, sprinkled with moments when the sound and smell and sight of the place...transported him, however briefly, to a summer night long ago when he was young and life was all promise.&quot;<br />Any sensitive reader will find Charming Billy a wonderful investigation into the motivations and mysteries of life and love as written by one of the best authors of the twentieth century.	2000-11-07
2218988:US	50718004	RT180KDC2R92W	0385312377	149732156	The Butcher Boy	Books	4	15	17	N	N	The Surrealistic Place Between Sanity and Insanity	Set is a rural Irish town in the early 1960s, The Butcher Boy is a beautiful and disturbing novel that tells the tale of &quot;the incredible Francie Brady,&quot; a lonely Irish teenager who has, at best, a tenuous grasp on reality. <br />A series of crushing personal loses, are causing Francie to slowly descend into madness, into the world of the true psychopath.  In an irrational attempt to fix blame on someone for the cruelties which have befallen him, Francie makes a local woman, Mrs. Nugent, the target of his scathing and sardonic wit, his growing anger, and finally, his shocking violence.  This is a tale of the surrealistic space that lies between sanity and insanity and Francie is the mythical changeling.<br />Despite its exceptionally depressing subject matter, The Butcher Boy is darkly comic and Francie's resilient, callous and savage first-person narrative, devoid of much traditional punctuation, impels the reader at a breakneck speed.  Francie gives nicknames to people, places and things and speaks in his own brand of Irish slang.  The book is a little claustrophobic in feel because we observe Francie's descent into madness from the inside, without realizing that we are going there.  We unwittingly embrace his warped point of view and are able to sympathize with him and weep for him even though we absolutely cannot condone what he does.  It's a rather hallucinatory novel, a patchwork-quilt of B-movie aliens, comic strip logic and even visions of the Virgin Mary.  It's a wild ride between sentimentality and the Grand Guignol; a place where real and rational explanations of the world simply aren't good enough.<br />Although this is an Irish novel, you won't find any politics in this book.  The Butcher Boy is set in a distant, apolitical Ireland of the past, all to the good.  Politics would only confuse the issues here.  Francie's world in an ambiguous, ambivalent one of religious fanaticism and Irish mysticism, two things that no doubt contribute to Francie's deteriorating mental state.<br />The ending of the book is a little surprising and is the only reason I gave this book four stars instead of five.  It really doesn't seem in keeping with the character of Francie that McCabe worked so diligently to build.  I felt a little let down, a little out of place.<br />But make no mistake, The Butcher Boy is a highly disturbing book.  It is an intimate look at a mind-gone-wrong, but it is extremely well-written and highly original.  There are no cookie-cutter characters or plot lines here.  As the Virgin Mary says to Francie, &quot;Don't go bothering your head about it.  The world goes one way and we go another.&quot;  That is certainly true for The Butcher Boy as well.	2000-11-07
2219251:US	50718004	R2SPLDUFV8YCD9	068484267X	698161422	Angela's Ashes: A Memoir	Books	5	9	14	N	N	Laughter and Tears	I almost never seem to read bestsellers while they are bestsellers.  Maybe it's all the hype that puts me off.  Nothing can be that good, I think.  But, Angela's Ashes is.  This is a book that truly lives up to all the media hype (and the Pulitzer Prize) lavished upon it and, surprisingly, deserves even more.<br />Angela's Ashes tells the story of one of the world's most dysfunctional families through the eyes of a child.  This is a family crippled by alcoholism, poverty, misery, illness and just about every other sort of deprivation one could possibly imagine.  Yet, its characters remain heroic, resilient and even humorous.  In the second paragraph, the author recalls, &quot;When I look back on my childhood I wonder how I survived at all.  It was, of course, a miserable childhood; the happy childhood is hardly worth your while.&quot;  An unnerving but wonderful beginning; I have no doubt that these very lines will be remembered verbatim for many, many years to come.<br />The author, Frank McCourt, is the oldest son in this collapsed, poverty-stricken family.  His childhood, the one from which he managed to extract so very much, is a childhood where nightmares disguise themselves as reality and walk about in broad daylight.<br />Angela's Ashes begins a month after Black Tuesday, the beginning of the Great Depression, in Brooklyn, New York.  Angela Sheehan, newly-arrived from Ireland is taken with Malachy McCourt at a neighborhood party.  Malachy is a man possessed of a &quot;hangdog&quot; look, having just spent the three previous months in jail, but Angela, unfortunately, is attracted to this &quot;hangdog&quot; look and she and Malachy experience what the author calls a &quot;knee-trembler.&quot;  Predictably, a child is conceived; a hasty marriage follows, then alcohol, drunkenness, debt, destitution and, also predictably, more children.<br />In fact, after just four years of marriage, the McCourt's have five children.  Five children who are victims of infection,disease, malnutrition, parental neglect and abuse.  Angela's relatives do the only thing they can to help; they send money for the McCourt family to return to Ireland.<br />The year 1934 finds the McCourt's back in Limerick, Ireland and the memoir then covers the years up until 1948.  Malachy McCourt does find work in Ireland, in fact, he finds many jobs as he never seems to be able to hold onto any one of them for more than three weeks at a stretch.  His alcoholism, even by tolerant Irish standards at the time, is &quot;beyond the beyonds,&quot; and he creates havoc for his family, leaving death and destruction in his wake.<br />At the age of ten, the author is hospitalized with typhoid fever for more than three months.  Something wonderful does happen during this hospitalization, however.  The young Frank McCourt meets the fourteen year old Patricia Madigan, a girl who is dying of diphtheria.  It is Patricia who introduces Frank to both poetry and Shakespeare, subjects that will become lifelong loves.  Frank tells Patricia that Shakespeare's words are like having jewels in your mouth.  Some of those jewels must have been lavished on Angela's Ashes because this book, and especially this section of the book, contains some of the most elegant and eloquent, passages ever written, passages that encompass a cadence and prose of which Shakespeare would have been proud.  In fact, the book^s most touching scenes all occur outside the family setting:  in the hospital, at school, during moments of tender young love.<br />There can be do doubt that Malachy McCourt suffered from a surfeit of both Irish pride and Irish whiskey, a deadly combination when taken to extremes and take them to extremes he did.  Malachy intimidated both his wife and his children with demands for &quot;dignity and respect.&quot;  He was a man who drank his paycheck before he ever got home, who then indulged in melancholy Irish ballads and stumbled into his children's bedroom to force them to swear they would &quot;die for Ireland.&quot;  He isn't really hateable, though, as he seems to be a man who could simply never make the connection between his horrible behavior and the misery he inflicted upon his family.  We want nothing more than to sit him down in a chair, sober, and make him repeat the Gaelic proverb:  Is milis da ol e ach is searbl da ioc e (It is sweet to drink but bitter to pay for) until he finally learns to live by its dictates.<br />Of course, Malachy McCourt never learned to live by this proverb nor any other; his severe alcoholism was made even worse by his inability to see the world in anything but black and white.  His lifelong hatred for the English, whom he viewed as his eternal foe, reaches back some 800 years; he never tires of delivering final judgments or pontifications; his follies are grandiose but his deeds are spare and wanting.  Only when sober and with his children (not surprisingly, these times are few) is he able to transcend the demons in his own soul and become a genuine Irish storyteller and spinner of tall and fabulous tales that would cause even Scheherazade embarrassment.<br />The author likens his father to the Holy Trinity; Malachy is definitely not divine, but he does have three separate and distinct identities:  the man who quietly reads the newspaper in the morning; the man who tell fabulous stories and legends at night; and the man who carries about him the indelible smell of whiskey.  Sigmund Freud must have had Malachy McCourt in mind when he said that the Irish were the only people who could not be helped with psychoanalysis.<br />While Angela's Ashes is a first-rate memoir (one of the best ever written, as far as I'm concerned), it is also an astonishingly detailed portrayal of the Irish poor in the 1930s and 1940s.  McCourt beautifully and deftly ties the happenings of his own family into the happenings of his neighborhood and the happenings of the entire Irish race.  The language employed in Angela's Ashes is evocative and brings forth strong and lasting images.  The tone, however, remains conversational and easy-to-read.  This is a forthright book that tells an unvarnished tale that is captivating, harrowing and humorous.  While Angela's Ashes is a memoir, it reads more like an extremely well-crafted novel of the highest order, bringing forth genuine laughter and tears.  I can't recommend it highly enough.	2000-11-06
2219700:US	50718004	RTEIDKWE9K8H	0192833626	590612959	Tess of the D'Urbervilles (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	At Talbothays Dairy	There really isn't much I can add to what has already been said about this wonderful Thomas Hardy novel.  One of the things that really struck me about Tess was the importance of setting and how Hardy relates Tess's emotional state to the setting in which she finds herself.  The contrasting settings of Talbothays Dairy and Flintcomb-Ash seem to represent the opposing forces in Tess's own life.<br />At Talbothays, the air is &quot;clear, bracing and ethereal,&quot; the river flows like the pure River of Life,&quot; and the atmosphere &quot;set up (Tess's) spirits wonderfully.&quot;  For Tess, the valley where the dairy is located is akin to Paradise and she feels an emotional high while she is there.<br />In the dairy, itself, the milkers form &quot;a little battalion of men and women,&quot; often &quot;singing songs to entice the cows to produce milk.&quot;  Everyone works together to bring about a common goal, a common good.  At Talbothays, Tess is able to escape the pressures and prejudices of Victorian England.  She is at the peak of happiness in her life and falls in love and marries the intellectual and difficult Angel Clare.<br />It is when her marriage to Angel fails, that Tess moves to the dreary and desolate Flintcomb-Ash.  Flintcomb-Ash is in direct contrast to Talbothays.  There is not a single &quot;green pasture,&quot; nor anything besides &quot;fallow and turnips everywhere&quot; at the &quot;starve-acre place.&quot;  Here, Tess reaches a new emotional low and her heart is as empty and dark as the setting in which she finds herself.  In contrast to the camaraderie at Talbothays, at Flintcomb-Ash, &quot;nobody come near (Tess)&quot; as she stands &quot;enshrouded in her uniform&quot; working &quot;hour after hour.&quot;  The other workers at Flintcomb-Ash do not fare much better and most are kept busy in the fields in order to earn enough money to simply survive.  There is no time for friendship in this place.<br />Obviously, Hardy was a master at description and the use of setting to emphasize the emotional state of his characters, Tess in particular.  Although this book is a masterpiece of sensual language, Tess is also a wonderful example of the use of contrasting settings to convey strong emotional states in a way that mere words alone never could.  Tess is a book that should not be overlooked by anyone.	2000-11-06
2219905:US	50718004	R2KOC8UC7AM4ZH	0375706410	663303744	Waiting: A Novel	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Spare and Elegant	Waiting is a spare and elegant novel, one of quiet emotions that never threatens to overwhelm.  The story centers on Lin Kong and his failed (and arranged) marriage to the plain and rustic Shuyu.  Although Lin has not slept with Shuyu since the birth of their daughter years before, he must remain married to her.  For without Shuyu's consent, Lin cannot obtain a divorce for eighteen years.<br />A doctor in a medical school in a small Manchurian city, Lin goes home to Goose Village every summer to ask Shuyu for a divorce so he can marry the woman with whom he is passionately in love, the youthful and beautiful student nurse, Manna.  Although very much in love, Lin and Manna eschew physical intimacy believing Lin will be expelled from the army if they are ever caught.<br />Although Shuyu does consider giving Lin a divorce, she always changes her mind at the last minute and this is where the waiting of the title comes in.  While Lin is waiting for Shuyu to grant him his freedom, he and Manna conduct their &quot;affair&quot; hemmed in by Party rules and regulations and the sharp tongues of the hospital gossips.  Ha Jin does a wonderful job of portraying Lin's stunted emotions and drawn-out tensions, which are engendered by the pressure put upon him by both of the women in his life, Shuyu and Manna.<br />The English-speaking public has been exposed to very little &quot;real&quot; Chinese fiction.  Chinese literature in translation has not enjoyed the popularity of Latin American literature, Russian literature or even Japanese.  There have also been no &quot;crossover&quot; Chinese authors such as Japan's Haruki Murakami or South America's Gabriel Garcia Marquez or Mario Vargas Llosa.  And Chinese writers do share a penchant for the purple and the political; they tend to be melodramatic and over-the-top, something that makes them a little unpopular with English-speaking readers.  Chinese writers living in the West, such as Amy Tan, Lisa See and Maxine Hong Kingston, despite their genealogical background, are really as much outsiders to China as are those with no ties to the country at all.  In essence, their writing, while good, is not really &quot;Chinese.&quot;<br />Ha Jin manages to overcome all of the above.  Although he now lives in the United States and wrote Waiting in English, he is a native of China and he manages to depict his country of birth without indulging in the romanticism, exoticism or Orientalism so prevalent among native Chinese (and Indian) writers of today.<br />In Waiting, Ha Jin gives us a perfect look at the city and countryside of northeast China in the 1960s to the 1980s.  The setting is perfectly rendered, with a beautiful eye for mundane, but telling, detail.  Although Jin never stresses the deprivation of life in Communist China, it is painfully evident in this book.  Fruits, vegetables and even medicines are expensive and rare; a wedding feast may consist of no more than cigarettes and candy; doctors at a medical school must live three to a dorm room and bathe in a communal bathhouse.  Even the more simple pleasures are denied:  one of the rules forbids unmarried men and women to meet in the hospital compound, thus preventing Lin and Manna from consummating the love they share.<br />This novel can be said to comprise a part of the &quot;wounded literature&quot; (shanghen wenxue) of China's Cultural Revolution, however, compared to the denunciations, struggles, beatings, incarcerations, executions and suicides included in other novels of that period, the suffering of Ha Jin's characters can appear to be mild.  But that is a surface impression only.  A deeper look at this book will show an astute reader that these characters do suffer greatly; Ha Jin is simply a more quiet and restrained writer, which is much to his credit, for it is in quietness and restraint that Waiting derives much of its power.  The emotional and spiritual pressure the characters endure builds slowly, it has a cumulative effect, andthe reader is left wondering when and how tragedy will occur.<br />At its heart, Waiting is a novel about the ambiguities and tensions inherent in love, a universal theme.  This is a masterfully written book and one that, ultimately, evokes the joys the sorrows and the quiet desperation of an ordinary life, whether that life be lived in Goose Village, Paris or Boston.  Waiting is a wonderful book and one that is wonderfully-written as well.  An absolutely unbeatable combination.	2000-11-06
2221256:US	50718004	R2G1STKXE1EUGB	0684801051	607441444	Time and Again	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Romanticized but Highly Entertaining	Si Morely is a late twentieth-century artist who spends his days in the comfortable but non-creative pursuit of drawing boring illustrations, and his nights in an equally comfortable but not-so-great relationship with an interesting (but definitely not hot) antiques dealer. It's the type of relationship where you might get married someday, but then again, you might not. Si's girlfriend, however, is a lady with a secret: a burned, blue envelope that appears to warn of the the end of the world by fire.<br />The government interrupts Si's comfortable but mundane life when they make a proposal. The only problem is, Si has to agree before he can learn any of the details. As nothing particularly spectacular is happening in Si's life right now, he agrees and learns the government has been experimenting with time travel. They are now searching for the perfect people to send back in time, i.e., people who love history, who can recreate the past in their imaginations.<br />As it turns out, Si has a very good imagination and is the first to make the trip. He crosses time's threshold and enters New York in 1882, a place where he will encounter an old mystery and a future love.<br />Finney's Old New York is both magical and romanticized, a little like Mark Helprin's in Winter's Tale. Horses trot down the city streets, skyscrapers are only a dream and snow transforms the city into a winter wonderland. The streets are cobblestone, the men are gentlemen and people live in boarding houses whose windows reflect the light from the gas lamps lining the streets. It's an idealized version of New York, to be sure, and Finney doesn't tell us about the child labor, the rampant racism, the myriad of problems that were portrayed in Caleb Carr's The Alienist, for example. That's okay, because Time and Again is so good, and such wonderful entertainment, that we easily forgive Finney his historical inaccuracies.<br />While visiting the past, Si investigates his girlfriend's family secret, the secret of the blue envelope. Although a little contrived, this is a mystery with many twists and turns, at times sinister, at times amusing, but always engrossing.<br />Finney wisely presents no new earth-shaking ideas here and only briefly touches on themes such as the paradox and angst associated with fooling around with the course of history. Si is a man who interacts with the past in much the same way you or I probably would, and, ultimately, this is what makes Time and Again so very believable and so very good.<br />Gratefully, Finney eschews gimmicks and high-tech solutions to the problem of time travel and gracefully relies on plain old-fashioned will instead. That is part of why Si is able to accomplish it so easily. For him, history is more than names and dates in a book, it's something that's happening right now, something that can be recreated, if only one can get into the right frame of mind.<br />Time travel is a wonderful and entertaining genre if only it's handled correctly and handling it correctly is something Finney never fails to do. In Time and Again Finney gives us the complexity of a murder mystery wrapped in a Russian enigma. It's a wonderful book with wonderful characters that never fails to entertain.	2000-11-04
2221943:US	50718004	R2HD97LTWB1P20	0140089225	354380790	The Bone People: A Novel	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Maori Mysticism	The Bone People is a wonderful, life-changing book that is rich in character, vivid in detail and encompasses almost the entire range of human emotions.  The plot revolves around three lost souls:  Kerewin, an artist who can no longer create; Simon, a mute boy who washed up on a deserted beach; and Joe, Simon's almost-stepfather.<br />At its heart, The Bone People is a romance but it is also a story that takes a look at the dark and serious side of life as well, especially child abuse.  No one should be put off by its sometimes depressing subject matter, though.  The Bone People is a book that, surprisingly and wonderfully, always manages to celebrate life in all of its complexity.  In fact, much of it is lyrically beautiful despite the darkness of some of its themes.<br />The Bone People is extraordinarily well-written (enough so to garner Hulme a Booker Prize).  This is a book with a style and voice all its own, something highly unusual in a first novel.  But, unlike some recent novels, The Bone People is never a case of style-over-substance; Hulme weaves her magic with both her engrossing story and her unique, almost stream-of-consciousness style.  There are a lot of shifts in time and perspective in this novel but they are always smooth and perfectly placed.  Nothing about The Bone People seems jarring or out-of-place.  Hulme's prose is almost musical:  andante, adagio, allegro, and we find ourselves reading to the cadence she sets.<br />The Bone People has an extraordinary and wonderful sense of place.  Part of this is inherent in the New Zealand setting and the Maori words that decorate the text.  The beach scenes are especially well-written and we can really smell the sea and feel the warmth of the sand between our toes.<br />A few things about The Bone People might seem disjointed at first.  The prologue, for example, only makes sense after you finish the book and then reread it.  But, to Hulme's credit, it is entitled, &quot;The End At The Beginning,&quot;so this should come as no surprise.<br />The ending, which gives some readers a little trouble, might be more easily understood if we only realize that Hulme is dealing with her characters on an individual basis at this point in the book.  Once we realize that, any sense of a deus ex machina ending disappears and all makes perfect sense.  It is mystical, yes, but it is a mysticism inherent in the book's story and so it belongs there, rather than being inserted.<br />The Bone People is a lyrical and beautiful book that takes a sensitive look at some of life's most serious problems.  I wish there were more books out there that measured up to the standard it set.	2000-11-04
2222084:US	50718004	R1LBBO1M3VPHDK	0385334893	414482955	Tulip Fever	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Wonderful Background, Trite Story	In 1630s Amsterdam, fortunes were made and lost speculating on, of all things, tulip bulbs.  In fact, comparisons are sometimes made between the Tulip Crash of 1637 and the stock market crash of 1929.  Tulip Fever is an interesting book because of its unique and rather exotic setting, but, in the end, it is just another dull and trite story of seedy adultery.<br />Twenty-four year old Sophia is married to the hard-working, proud and pious sixty-one year old Cornelis Sandvoort.  Although she has never really loved him, she does remain grateful to him for rescuing both her and her mother and sisters from a life of devastation and poverty.  She thus submits to her husband's nightly advances, not with passion, but with a certain resignation and an air of obligation to provide him with a child.  Trouble arrives when Cornelis decides to have Sophia's portrait painted (in a gorgeous Delft blue silk gown) by the young Jan Van Loos, a handsome and dashing artist.<br />While Sophia and Jan are attempting to sort out their difficulties with Cornelis, Sophia's maid, Maria, also runs into problems.  The girlfriend of a fish seller, Willem, Maria now finds herself pregnant, and, of course, alone.  Suffice it to say that a little blackmail ensues between the two women and Sophia ends up concocting a daring plan that involves an elaborate deception and wild tulip speculation.  If it succeeds, great, but if it doesn't, only catastrophe will follow.<br />The author does an excellent job of bringing seventeenth century Amsterdam and its citizens to life.  Her details are rich, varied and vivid.  History abounds in this novel but it never overwhelms it.  In fact, I, myself, would have loved to have learned more about the tulip craze and what made people invest so heavily in something as mundane as an ordinary garden bulb.  The short, succinct chapters are interspersed with reproductions of Northern European paintings and epigraphs from essays and literature of the period.<br />While Tulip Fever is well-written, the problem I had with it is that once stripped of its very interesting setting, the story is just another ho-hum story of adultery and its myriad consequences.  I am certainly not against adultery in any book, when adultery comprises an essential element of the plot, but an entire book about adultery can, and does, get more than a little tiresome.  Personally, I blame The Bridges of Madison County for the influx of boring adultery books; Tulip Fever is a little better than Bridges, but not much, for in the end, Tulip Fever is simply the story of a vain and beautiful woman who cockolds a perfectly wonderful man whose only sin lies in loving her a bit too much.<br />I'm not necessarily a fan of highly moral characters or happy endings, either, but Tulip Fever is a novel whose story has been told before, many times, in fact.  The background, though, is so wonderful that I couldn't help but wonder what these same characters would be like if the author had only given them a fresh and original story to tell.	2000-11-04
2222093:US	50718004	R3F7MOMVZ5FBA6	0060925000	832364601	A Suitable Boy	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Rich and Panoramic, but Not Perfect	Vikram Seth's first book, A Suitable Boy, is an epic tale of India, set in the turbulent period following independence and partition.  Although extremely long, this is a book that never plods or bogs down.  It takes a look at India through the lives of four very extended families, both Hindu and Moslem:  the Mehras; the Kapoors, whose most prominent member, the charming if rather feckless Maan Kapoor, falls deeply in love with a Moslem singer and courtesan; the Khans, who are Moslem, and whose son Firoz is a close friend of Maan's, a friendship which eventually results in near-tragedy; and the Chatterjis a family of brilliant and highly Anglicized young men and women:  Amit, the poet and novelist, Dipankar the would-be mystic, and Meenakshi and Kakoli, two beautiful and amoral sisters who continually exchange verse couplets with each other in a sort of verbal tennis match of wit.  Rounding out the cast of characters are the families' friends, enemies, neighbors, servants, gurus and lovers.  The central plot involves a love story that runs through the book like the Ganges.<br />The most fully-realized and emotionally-engaging character in A Suitable Boy is Mrs. Rupa Mehra.  Based loosely on Seth's own grandmother, Mrs. Rupa Mehra has only one mission left in life:  to arrange a proper marriage for her youngest daughter, Lata.  In other words, she wishes to find Lata &quot;a suitable boy.&quot;  Mother and daughter are a generation apart in their ideas, but, surprisingly, they eventually do reach an agreement of sorts, and, as they do, they find that they are closer than they had ever imagined.  <br />Mrs. Rupa Mehra, however, is a woman who is determined to take care of her family at any cost, to take care of them even if they do not wish to be taken care of.  Seth sums her up this way, &quot;Mrs. Rupa Mehra, torn between solicitude for Pran, concern for Savita, who was due to deliver any day now, and desperate anxiety on behalf of Lata, would have liked nothing better than to have an emotional breakdown.  But the press of events would not allow it at present, and she therefore abstained.&quot;  Mrs. Rupa Mehra, is indeed, a remarkable character, and not one that is soon forgotten.  She is vividly drawn and seems to leap off the page with energy, vitality and wit.<br />A Suitable Boy is straightforward, no-frills storytelling.  There are, mercifully, no verbal pyrotechnics here, no extended dream sequences, no magic realism or any of the other literary devices that can be so wonderful but only when employed by an author who really knows what he is doing.  Seth wisely sticks to his story and the result is an almost-Victorian rendering.  This is one of those books in which the author's &quot;voice&quot; is almost anonymous or silent and that is just as it should be.  With a sprawling plot and a large cast of characters, a strong sense of &quot;style&quot; or &quot;voice,&quot; sometimes so essential, would have only been an intrusion in a novel such as this.<br />One of the themes of A Suitable Boy is religious intolerance.  In 1952, India was still recovering from the horrors of partition.  Muslim Pakistan had separated from the sub-continent and Brahmpur, the invented city where much of the action of A Suitable Boy takes place, is involved in the construction of a Hindu temple adjacent to an existing mosque.  In fact, the temple was deliberately erected on that very spot so that when the Muslims gather for their daily prayers and kneel to face Mecca, they will be forced to face Hindu idols as well, idols they, themselves, consider obscene.  Seth, himself, has said that he has no sympathy for Hindu fanatics and considers A Suitable Boy to be a plea for religious tolerance in India.<br />Politics also plays a role in A Suitable Boy and Nehru, himself, makes a few appearances.  The sections in which Seth does veer off into politics or religion are less successful than the sections that involve the four families directly.  I was tempted to skip many of the more political sections of the book, but didn't.  Another minor problem crops up in a certain vagueness about the language the characters are speaking.  Although this might not seem to matter, it does matter and matters greatly because the characters, themselves, make much of it.  Lata's very pompous brother Arun, for example, often scorns Haresh, Lata's husband-to-be, because his English is less than perfect, although Haresh has studied in England while Arun has never even been there.  A delightful bit of irony.<br />Although not a perfect book, and one that, at times, could stand a little more smoothness, A Suitable Boy is a rich and panoramic look at India during a crucial time in her history as well as being a delightful and incisive novel that is well worth the time one must devote to its more than 1500 pages.	2000-11-04
2222279:US	50718004	RQLCZC2OMOGN6	0684838680	434448992	Fall on Your Knees.	Books	2	7	9	N	N	Melodramatic and Over-the-Top	Fall on Your Knees is a book that attempts to reach epic proportions, and, to its credit, it is written with energy and passion...sometimes a little too much energy and passion.  Fall on Your Knees takes the reader through the entire first half of the twentieth century as it follows five generations of the family of James and Materia (Mahmoud) Piper, a Gaelic-speaking, Scottish Protestant and a Lebanese Catholic.<br />James had, in fact, ruined Mahmoud when he came &quot;like a thief in the night&quot; and talked her into yielding to his not-so-considerable charms.  In the eyes of her family, Mahmoud was shamed and shamed forever.<br />MacDonald attempts to capture the entire sad and complex history of twentieth century Cape Breton in this almost-encyclopedic novel.  In doing so, she sometimes loses her focus and veers off into melodrama aplenty, none of which serve her story well.  To her credit, MacDonald does always manage to bring us back to the questions at hand, but many readers, myself included, do not care to make so many side trips in first one direction and then another.  <br />Although there can be no doubt that MacDonald is a good writer, her elaborate metaphors can, at times, be tiresome.  Take the following example:  &quot;On Water Street, the outside walls of the shed thump now and then like a brass drum with a foot-pedal at work inside it keeping the beat.  In the shed the performance has begun.  The upbeat grabs her neck until she's on point, the downbeat thrusts her back against the wall, two eight-notes of head on wood, knuckles clatter incidentally.  In the half-note rest he lights up her pale face with the blue wicks of his eyes, and the lyrics kick in con spiritu, 'What right have you, you have no right, no right to even speak her name, who's the slut, tell me who's the slut!'  The next two bars are like the first, then we're into the second movement, swing your partner from the wall into the workbench, which catches her in the small of the back, gracenote into stumble because she bounces, being young.  Staccato across the face, then she expands her percussive range and become a silent tambourine through this part by pretending to herself that she is Raggedy-Lily-of-the-Valley, which makes her laugh his second verse, 'I don't want to hear you speak dental note to the nose resolves into big major chord, Do-You-Under-Stand-Me?'  We've gone all stately; it's whole notes from here on in.  She flies against another wall and he follows her trajectory, taking his time now because he's working up to the finale.  One more clash of timbers and tissues and it's opera.  'I'll cut the tongue right out of your head.'  She sticks her tongue out at him and tastes blood.  Cue finale to the gut.  Frances folds over till she's on the floor.  Modem dancer.&quot;<br />Wow.  By the time I got done reading that, I didn't care who beat whom or what the consequences were;  I was just glad that song and dance had come to an end.  I simply found myself wishing that MacDonand would leave the verbal pyrotechnics behind and get on with the telling of her story.<br />Although MacDonald's handling of narrative could stand considerable paring-down, to put it mildly, she does deserve credit for re-creating Industrial Cape Breton's polyglot past in all of its complexity.  It's obvious she's done her research and has attempted to get it all down right.<br />MacDonald does capture a true sense of place in Fall on Your Knees, especially Cape Breton's religion-dominated culture.  Even the title of the book is drawn from a popular Catholic hymn, O Holy Night, often sung by church choirs around the world at Midnight Mass on Christmas Eve.  MacDonald does a good job of letting us smell the incense and witness the pageantry, yet she never loses sight of the religious intolerance that pervaded Cape Breton; the paranoia of the Catholics, the sovereignty of the Protestants.  We can feel it all.<br />MacDonald also gives us a vivid picture of the mines and the miners who made their way under the ocean, coughing and drinking as they dug their own grave.  We feel the dust, see the blackness and empathize with the miners' suffering as they strive to enrich the mines' owners in more ways than one.<br />For me, Fall on Your Knees was definitely a case of style-over-substance.  An excess of style can work in an author's favor, but only if that author has a compelling story to tell.  Fall on Your Knees, in my opinion, just wasn't very compelling.<br />Despite my criticisms, Fall on Your Knees isn't all bad.  Those who are interested in the history of Cape Breton, those who enjoy epics and those who like narratives awash with verbal contortions just might find Fall on Your Knees a four or five-star book.	2000-11-03
2222401:US	50718004	R2AW82H1KT40ZJ	0385720114	977875409	The Map of Love: A Novel	Books	3	46	62	N	N	Very Uneven	The Map of Love, written in the frame of two stories at either end of the twentieth century, is an ambitious work as well as a book that shows the power of love over interracial and political crises.<br />The first story begins with Anna Winterbourne, an English widow who finds herself drawn to Egypt at the end of the nineteenth century, and Sharif Basha al-Baroudi, an Egyptian nobleman who rescues her from a potentially life-threatening situation.<br />Generations later, Omar al-Ghamrawi and Isabel Parkman, both descendants of Anna and Sharif, discover Anna's letters and journals, and, as they do, they find themselves caught in a love story all their own, set against the continued political unrest and haunting beauty of Egypt.<br />The Map of Love is book that almost, but not quite, succeeds.  Most of the novel focuses on the love between Anna and Sharif, through both narrative and later, through Anna's writings.  These are the most compelling and lovely sections of the book.  The romance between Omar and Isabel seems dry and almost boring in comparison to the earlier star-crossed lovers; Omar and Isabel's romance really is pretty predictable.<br />Anna and Sharif, though, have their own problems in this book.  Their love exhibits a gushing romanticism that simply seems out of place, at best.  For example, in one passage, Sharif says to Anna, &quot;When you lifted your head and looked at me with the sun on your face, I saw your eyes, your amazing violet eyes, and then your face and neck flushed with color and you looked down and hid yourself in the child and all I could see was your hair.  I thought, She is beautiful.  Truly beautiful.&quot;<br />What I think is that no one, in any age, no matter how much in love, ever speaks like this, unless he or she is straining towards deliberate pretension.  It sounds downright silly and makes us distrust the story as well as the storyteller.<br />These lapses in the quality of the writing are all the more glaring because, atother times, the author does write passages of lyrical beauty, the following being a wonderful example:  &quot;The river like a lifeline thrown across the desert, the villages and towns hanging on to it, clustering together, glancing over their shoulders at the desert always behind them.  Appeasing it, finally, by making it the dwelling of their dead.&quot;<br />Another problem is the apparent saintliness of both Anna and Sharif.  Both are such good people that it is hard to believe in them.  Anna turns out to be such a good wife that it matters little to her that an entire population has turned its back on her.  Additionally, she goes through her entire married life and manages to have only one decent argument with her husband, an equally saintly personage.<br />The latter half of the book comprises much of the politics of the times, which can get pretty boring.  Many of the scenes seem to be inserted only in an effort to educate readers as to the history of the region.  It can be interesting to some people, but it certainly doesn't make for compelling fiction.  There are times, however, when even the political writing can be lyrical and filled with beauty, as in the following, &quot;A war is bad and an alliance is worse.  And one of them has to happen.  This is a race to subjugate the world--each nation using the tools it masters best:  France, brute strength; Italy, terror; Britain, perfidy, false promises and double stealing; the Zionists, business schemes, blackmail and stealth.  And Egypt?  What is Egypt's strength?  Her resilience?  Her ability to absorb people and events into the pores of her being?  ...A shifting of responsibility?  ...how much can she absorb and still remain Egypt?&quot;  <br />This is beautiful writing and it shows that Soueif is definitely a writer with talent.  The trouble is, in this book, at least, the beautiful writing only comes in spurts, causing the overall tone of the novel to be quite uneven.  Soueif has the same problem with characters.  Some are fully-fleshed out, while others remain sadly two-dimensional.<br />At its best, The Map of Love is a lyrically written love story; at its worst, it is an overwritten and melodramatic farce and, as such, a waste of the reader's time and the author's talent.	2000-11-03
2222513:US	50718004	R2EQY254GQW377	158234082X	24249899	Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly	Books	5	263	276	N	N	Telling It Like It Is	In this book, Anthony Bourdain, executive chef at New York's Brasserie Les Halles, takes us on a wild ride through that city's food supply industry that includes surprises such as heavy drinking, drugs, debauchery, Mafiosi and assorted seedy personalities.<br />It is clear that Bourdain enjoys a true passion for both food and cooking, a passion he inherited from the French side of his family.  He tells us he decided to become a chef during a trip to southwestern France when he was only ten years of age and it is a decision he stuck to, graduating from the Culinary Institute of America.<br />Kitchen Confidential is a surprisingly well-written account of what life is really like in the commercial kitchens of the United States; &quot;the dark recesses of the restaurant underbelly.&quot;  In describing these dark recesses, Bourdain refreshingly casts as many stones at himself as he does at others.  In fact, he is brutally honest.  There is nothing as tiresome as a &quot;tell-all&quot; book in which the author relentlessly paints himself as the unwitting victim.  Bourdain, to his enormous credit, avoids this trap.  Maybe he writes so convincingly about drugs and alcohol because drugs and alcohol have run their course through his veins as well as those of others.<br />The rather raunchy &quot;pirate ship&quot; stories contained in this fascinating but testosterone-rich book help to bring it vividly to life and add tremendous credibility.  The book does tend to discourage any would-be female chefs who might read it, but that's not Bourdain's fault; he is simply telling it like it is and telling it hilariously as well.<br />In an entire chapter devoted to one of the lively and crude characters that populate this book, Bourdain describes a man named Adam:  &quot;Adam Real-Last-Name-Unknown, the psychotic bread-baker, alone in his small, filthy Upper West Side apartment, his eyes two different sizes after a 36-hour coke and liquor jag, white crust accumulated at the corners of his mouth, a two-day growh of whiskers--standing there in a shirt and no pants among the porno mags, the empty Chinese takeout containers, as the Spice channel flickers silently on the TV, throwing blue light on a can of Dinty Moore beef stew by an unmade bed.&quot;  Apparently Bourdain made just as many mistakes at the beginning of his career as did Adam, but the book however, doesn't always paint and bleak picture.<br />Another chapter entitled &quot;The Life of Bryan,&quot; talks about renowned chef Scott Bryan, a man, who, according to Bourdain, made all the right decisions.  Bourdain describes Bryan's shining, immaculate kitchen, his well-organized and efficient staff.  It's respectful homage, but somehow, we feel that Bourdain, himself, will never be quite as organized as is Bryan, for Bourdain is just too much of the rebel, the original, the maverick.<br />Kitchen Confidential can be informative as well as wickedly funny.  Bourdain is hilarious as he tells us what to order in restaurants and when.  For instance, we learn never to eat fish on Mondays, to avoid Sunday brunches and never to order any sort of meat well-done.  And, if we ever see a sign that says, &quot;Discount Sushi,&quot; we will, if we are smart, run the other way as fast as we possibly can.<br />Kitchen Confidential isn't undying literature but it's so funny and so well-written that no one should care.  It made me hungry for Bourdain's black sea bass crusted in sel de Bretagne with frites.  It also made me order his novel, Bone in the Throat.  If it is only half as funny and wickedly well-written as is Kitchen Confidential it will certainly be a treat.	2000-11-03
2222522:US	50718004	ROZ5NJZPIMXO5	0810112000	311905084	Moscow to the End of the Line	Books	5	139	148	N	N	Venichka's Journey	Moskva-Petushki, which is translated in English as Moscow to the End of the Line, is Venedikt Erofeev's greatest work, one drunken man's (Venichka's) journey on the Moskovskaia-Gor'skovskaia train line to visit his lover and child in the Petushki.  En route, Venichka talks with other travelers in dialogue and he also speaks in monologue about various themes such as drinking, Russian literature and philosophy and the sad, poetic soul of the Russian peasant.  As the novel progresses, it becomes increasingly dark, disoriented, hallucinogenic and surrealistic, in proportion to the narrator's alcohol intake.<br />Moscow to the End of the Line was written in 1970.  During this time, Erofeev, himself, was traveling around the Soviet Union working as a telephone cable layer.  Erofeev's friends have said the author made the story up in order to entertain his fellow workers as they traveled, and that many of these fellow workers were later incorporated as characters in the book.<br />The text of the novel began to be circulated in samizdat within the Soviet Union and then it was smuggled to the West where it was eventually translated into English.  The official Russian language publication took place in Paris in 1977.  With glasnost, Moscow to the End of the Line was able to be circulated freely within Russia, but, rather than stick to the original form, the novel was abridged in the government pamphlet Sobriety and Culture, ostensibly as a campaign against alcoholism.  Finally, in 1995, it was officially published, together with all the formerly edited obscenities and without censorship.<br />Although he is an alcoholic, Venichka never comes across to the reader as despicable.  Venichka is not a man who drinks because he wants to drink; he drinks to escape a reality that has gone beyond miserable and veered off into the absurd.  He is not a stupid or pitiable character, but rather one who has no outlet for his considerable intelligence.  That Venichka is very educated is obvious; he makes intelligent and well-read references to both literature and religion.  However, in the restrictive Soviet Union of his time, there was no outlet for this kind of intelligent creativity; Venichka is forced to channel his creative instincts into bizarre drink recipes and visions of sphinxes, angels and devils.<br />Although many will see Moscow to the End of the Line as satire, it really is not.  Instead, it is Erofeev's anguished and heartfelt cry, a cry that demanded change.  Venichka is not a hopeless character, however, the situation in which he is living is a hopeless one.<br />A semi-autobiographical work, Moscow to the End of the Line was never meant as a denunciation of alcoholism but rather an explanation of why alcohol was so tragically necessary in the day-to-day life of citizens living under Soviet rule.<br />Moscow to the End of the Line is a highly entertaining book and it is a book that is very important in understanding the Russia of both yesterday and today as well.  This book is really a classic of world literature and it is a shame that more people do not read Moscow to the End of the Line rather than relying on the standard &quot;bestseller.&quot;  This book deserves to be more widely read and appreciated.	2000-11-03
2222570:US	50718004	RV5VUQYAZ0TND	0813916895	362684119	Rubáiyát of Omar Khayyám: A Critical Edition (Victorian Literature and Culture Series)	Books	5	34	35	N	N	A Classic	Edward FitzGerald's translation of The Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam is an enormous accomplishment although it is not true to the original Persian (the Avery/Heath-Stubbs version is more faithful).  Another important fact to note is that FitzGerald worked on his translation over a period of several decades and eventually published four different editions.  Modern editions are often a compilation of bits and pieces from each of FitzGerald's four editions, something that doesn't always make for the smoothest reading.  This Critical Edition, edited by Christopher Decker, goes a long way towards overcoming these problems.<br />In this edition, an introduction written by Decker provides very good and much needed background for Khayyam's work.  Most importantly, all four of the author's editions are included in their entirety, first individually and then, in an appendix, by quatrain, so one can compare the texts.  A table providing the sequence of the quatrains is also provided, a pronunciation guide and a small glossary.  An added bonus, to be found only in this edition, I believe, is the inclusion of FitzGerald's Latin translation of the poems.<br />The Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam is beautiful and classic poetry encompassing simple quatrains where East seems to meet West in a mingling of Eastern mysticism and Western language and expression of the nineteenth century.<br />Anyone who is serious about these gorgeous poems will find this text most useful.  Although this is not the most visually beautiful of the translations, it is certainly the most comprehensive and the one that will most enhance your knowledge.  Definitely worthy of adding to your collection.  In fact, a necessity.	2000-11-03
2222870:US	50718004	RCVI4BTD6VQ9T	0375501851	363806782	White Teeth	Books	4	14	15	N	N	A Strange Mix	Archibald Jones reminds me a little of Joyce's Leopold Bloom; he believes that people of all classes and backgrounds can mingle and get along.  To that end, Archibald (who is a paper folder by profession) chooses as his best friend, the Bangladeshi, Samad Iqbal, a one-handed Muslim London waiter.<br />White Teeth encompasses the time period from 1975 to 1993 and traces the friendship between Archibald and Samad.  As we learn more about the two men, we also learn about their friends and families, such as Archibald's toothless Jamaican wife, as well as their daughter Irie, and Samad's arranged-marriage, a marriage that was satisfactory enough to produce twin sons named Millat and Magid.<br />During the telling of her story, Smith makes several forays into rather bizarre and hilarious worlds:  a Jamaican hair salon; a school that was begun as a workhouse for Jamaican immigrants; and an Irish pub that has become a catch-all for Muslim immigrants in London.<br />Smith's characters are all eccentrics, with strange habits and quirks but who, nevertheless, seek to blend into the background of modern-day London despite their differences in race, style, language and religious belief.  The fact that none of them really does blend is something that simply escapes them altogether.  Take Millat, for instance.  This fifteen-year old boy was born and raised in London, but he looks like &quot;Omar Sharif, thirty years ago.&quot;  His efforts at &quot;blending&quot; are nothing short of enormous, &quot;He was simply too big to remain merely a leader of the Raggastanis..he had to please all of the people...to the Cockney wide-boys he was the joker...to the Asian kids, hero and spokesperson...and underneath it all...the feeling of belonging nowhere that comes to people who belong everywhere.&quot;<br />Smith writes about a London that is home to people who really have no home; i.e., a sense of place.  Her characters seem disconnected, at loose ends.  There is Samad's son Magid, who wassent to Bangladesh to learn to become a &quot;proper&quot; Muslim at the age of nine.  When he returns to London at seventeen he comes back wearing all white, &quot;ironing his underpants,&quot; speaking very, very proper Queen's English and eating English bacon for breakfast.  An aspiring lawyer, Magid is more English than the English.  Millat, however, is a different story.  Although he admits to being from &quot;Whitechapel...via the Royal London Hospital and the 207 bus,&quot; Millat is a rootless young man in emotional turmoil.  In an effort to put down some much-needed roots, he joins a group known as KEVIN.<br />Smith obviously knows London and both the East and the West.  She writes about diverse cultures and races with joy and humor and pathos.  When Samad complains &quot;birthplaces are accidents...everything is an accident,&quot; Irie counters with, &quot;the land of accidents sounded like a paradise...like freedom.&quot;  Obviously, colonialism, or any of its vestiges, plays no part in White Teeth.<br />Smith's London is, in fact, a true melting-pot.  It is a city that experiences excitement, aggravation, anger and edginess, but never out-and-out violence.  It is a world of muted shades of gray where nothing is black and white.  Its inhabitants are more intent on blending than on emphasizing individual differences.<br />Smith is an excellent writer and this is an excellent debut novel.  It is a bit unfocused at times and there are times when it goes on for pages and pages and we wonder what Smith is really getting at.  She seems to be a little like Millat, wanting to please all of the people all of the time.  Ultimately, however, we realize the Smith is trying to tell us to simply get on with getting on.  It's not a bad message and, although it's not perfect, White Teeth is definitely not a bad book nor one to be dismissed.	2000-11-03
2224960:US	50718004	R10VBVI181P3BN	0140256369	628563700	Of Love And Other Demons (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	23	25	N	N	By Love Possessed	Of Love and Other Demons opens with a description of the author/narrator, in 1949, reporting the excavation of a convent of Clarissan nuns, and seeing &quot;a stream of living hair the intense color of copper&quot; spill out of the crypt.  The hair belongs to Sierva Maria de Todos los Angeles, a marquise who is now two hundred years dead, the protagonist of this grotesque, terrible and gloomy story.<br />This book is pure Garcia Marquez, so you know it has to be good.  The world inhabited by the characters is an incredible one; one whose truths are as strange as its demonic magic.  Although a love story of sorts, Of Love and Other Demons has none of the comic antics of Love in the Time of Cholera; it reminds one more of the spare and grim Chronicle of a Death Foretold.<br />Sierva Maria is the only child of Don Ygnacio de Alfaro y Duenas, the second Marquis de Casalduero and Lord of Darien.  Garcia Marquez describes him as &quot;a funereal, effeminate man, as pale as a lily because the bats drained his blood while he slept.&quot;  Don Ygnacio really doesn't do much with his time other than lie in a hammock and look at the world with fear and gloom in his heart.<br />Bernarda Cabrera, the Marquis's second wife, is Sierva Maria's mother.  She is as addict of violent sex, cacao and fermented honey; a woman from the merchant class who had formerly been in love with a slave named Judas Iscariote.  Filled with hatred for her own child, Sierva Maria was brought up by black slaves and learned to worship Yoruban gods, sing African songs, speak African languages.  Sierva, in fact, prefers the vital, alive slaves to the decadent and perverted Spaniards.<br />Despite her odd parentage, Sierva is a happy child until the day she is bitten on the ankle by a strange dog.  Even though the wound heals with no problem, her father, along with the religious authorities decides that she may be rabid, possessed by demons, and their barbarous attempts to exorcise her form the crux of thisstory.<br />The chief exorcist, Cayetano Delaura, an intellectual priest whose secret passion is books of courtly romance, falls in love with the young Sierva and with her coppery hair and it is their love that will chart the course of Sierva's life.  Father Delaura's opponent regarding Sierva is a Jewish doctor named Abrenuncio de Sa Pereira Cao.  This man is the voice of reason in a world where sanity and reason become wild and twisted.  His is the lone voice crying in the wilderness.<br />There are many demons in this wonderful story of the fantastic, including love.  The Bishop (a wonderful character) sees rabies as a manifestation of a demon-possessed body; a superstitious abbess finds a supernatural portent in every ordinary event.  When Sierva asks her father if it is true that love conquers all, he answers, &quot;It is true, but you would do well not to believe it.&quot;<br />The real demons, however, are the beliefs held by both the Spanish and the Christians, a theme that has been explored my Garcia Marquez in other books.  This is only heightened by the clash of cultures between them and the Africans with whom Sierva Maria has been growing up.  Father Delaura believes &quot;that what seems demonic to us are the customs of the blacks, learned by the girl as a consequence of the neglected condition in which her parents kept her.&quot;  The Jewish doctor, Abrenuncio, believes the real danger for Sierva lies in the exorcism which she is undergoing.<br />A fear of animals also dominates in this bleak and sad story.  As a young boy, Ygnacio was terrified of all animals except chickens.  But one day he observed a chicken at close quarters and &quot;imagined it grown to the size of a cow, and realized it was a monster much more fearsome than any other on land or sea.&quot;  He even tells himself, &quot;I live in fear of being alive.&quot;  The only animals left on his estate are mastiffs, which, strangely, he loves.  Dogs play an important role in Of Love and Other Demons.  Abrenuncio's name, Cao is Portuguese for &quot;dog,&quot; and one of the characters meets a mysterious and watery death across a bridge &quot;where they had just hung the carcass of a large, sinister dog so that everyone would know it had died of rabies.  The air carried the scent of roses, and the sky was the most diaphanous in the world.&quot;  Heady stuff?  Maybe.  But not for someone as talented as Garcia Marquez.<br />Ultimately, Of Love and Other Demons asks the questions:  What is body and what survives the death of the body?  What is flesh and what is spirit?  What is demonic?  This isn't Garcia Marquez's very best book, but that doesn't matter; it is yet another tour de force from one of the century's most brilliant and original authors.	2000-11-01
2225036:US	50718004	R2UIOI8ZS5H4IM	0404518702	867003090	Plutarch's Lives of the Noble Grecians and Romans	Books	5	14	16	N	N	The Tales of Antiquity	For generations, this was the primary textbook regarding the Greek and Roman world.  It formed the historical source for many of Shakespeare's finest plays as well as setting the pattern for all of the biographical arts.  This book also provided the inspiration for many of the ideas of American political personages as can be seen in the speeches and quotations of Samuel Adams, Peyton Randolph, Patrick Henry, Samuel Davies, Alexander Hamilton, James Madison, Henry Lee, John Jay, George Mason and Thomas Jefferson.  In fact, during the Founding era of the United States, Plutarch's Lives of Noble Grecians and Romans was the most frequently referenced work and was second only to the Christian Bible.  This alone makes this book one of the most vital and essential of all the classics.<br />Plutarch's Lives of Noble Grecians and Romans was written sometime during the tumultuous days of the second century.  It is organized as a series of parallel biographies and alternates between famous Greeks and Romans.  A character from the Golden Age such as Pericles, Alcibiades, Lycurgus, Alexander or Solon is compared with one from the Splendorous Age such as Cicero, Brutus, Cato, Antony or Caesar.  Plutarch's objective was didactic; his Lives abound with honor, valor, temperance, duty and wisdom, an ode to morality in an essentially pagan culture.<br />The profiles presented, however, are notorious for their mix of fact and fiction, history and myth, truth and downright gossip.  Plutarch, a lover of tradition, above all else, wanted to both memorialize past glories and to reassert them as living ideals.  What mattered to Plutarch was the impact on the consciousness of culture through the lessons presented, not whether they actually occurred.<br />Regarding his profile of Croseus, Plutarch writes, &quot;When a story is so celebrated and is vouched for by so many authorities, I cannot agree that it should be rejected because of the so-called rules of chronology.&quot; In his biographyof Theseus he wrote, &quot;May I therefore succeed in purifying fable, making her submit to reason and take on the semblance of history.  But where she obstinately disdains to make herself credible and refuses to admit any element of probability I shall pray for kindly readers and such as receive with indulgence the tales of antiquity.&quot;<br />Plutarch is truly the father of modern-day Political Science, and he forged the cardinal model for Sociology, Psychology, History and the Social Sciences. These disciplines owe more to Plutarch than to any other single artisan, if not in actual substance, then in form.<br />It is too bad this seminal work has passed out of fashion in traditional education. Although anthologies and selected portions of this book do exist, these anthologies only serve to corrupt the comparative structure of the original work.<br />Hopefully, it will not be long until The Lives of Noble Grecians and Romans makes it way back into the classroom of every serious student in the Western world.	2000-11-01
2225093:US	50718004	R3ROGFFS84MBON	0374525749	627065254	The Odyssey	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Homer Set the Stage	Homer's Odyssey set the stage for just about everything that was ever written after it.  Other works copy its themes, devices, constructs and more.  The construction of fiction, whether it be epic fiction or even the postmodern novel, has it roots in Homer.<br />The Odyssey is a written collection of oral stories about a man named Odysseus.  Classicists will argue regarding the authenticity of The Odyssey as compared to The Iliad because The Odyssey lacks a continuous &quot;style.&quot;<br />Of course, the style is not continuous.  This is a collection of stories, not a single story as is The Iliad.  The style quite rightly reflects the style of those who first related the stories, so each should seem slightly different in tone, depending on who the original storyteller was.<br />The Odyssey is a book that truly has everything:  the wrath of the gods, war, revenge, love, lust, intrigue and homecoming.  I can't think of anyone who couldn't find something in The Odyssey to like and to relate to.<br />There are many, many translations of The Odyssey available and not just any one will do it justice.  I would really recommend a strict translation of the original work.  The language will be a little sticky at times, but will be far fuller in meaning than a &quot;looser&quot; translation.  Fitzgerald's translation is a good one and the one most found in modern bookstores.<br />For those intrepid enough to do a little hunting, though, the translation by T.E. Shaw is excellent and a very good read as well.  Shaw's is a strict translation in all ways but one; it is a prose translation and does not stick dogmatically to the iambic hexameter of the original.  Ironically, in Shaw's translation, the cadence is preserved but the read is quite smooth.  Anyone lucky enough to find a Shaw translation should grab it immediately.  If you don't want it yourself, you no doubt know someone who would.	2000-11-01
2225604:US	50718004	R3KJ8GPNUMUYNR	0140231900	361422595	Mr. Vertigo	Books	3	9	12	N	N	What Happened?	Paul Auster is a wonderful writer.  Many of his novels, however, feel more designed than told.  They are more architectural than emotional; the product of a mind intent on reconfiguring the world into shapes, symbols and linguistic symmetry rather than a heart intent on sharing its joys and its despairs.  This isn't always bad; the pseudo-noir of The New York Trilogy was both fabulous and addicting.<br />Auster is also an author who loves gimmicks but that can also be good.  It didn't bother me at all that two characters in City of Glass were named Paul Auster, yet neither one was an autobiographical figure.  Nor did I mind that every proper name in Ghosts seemed to be taken from the side of a Crayola crayon, e.g., Blue, White, etc.  These are all a part of Auster's brilliant and unique perception of the world in which we live.<br />The Invention of Solitude, however, was a refreshing change.  An earlier Auster who perhaps had not yet found his own unique voice, but who gave us a painfully and beautifully sincere look at fatherhood in all of its various nuances.  The characters were real flesh-and-blood people and not linguistic contrivances as are the characters in The Music of Chance who comprise counterparts to various figurines in some eccentric collector's toybox.<br />With Moon Palace and Leviathan, Auster seemed to be veering off into the realm of the emotional at last.  These were books one could connect with on an emotional level, and Leviathan, especially, was an easy book in which to lose oneself.  Mr. Vertigo, though, marks a retreat from the more natural, emotional material Auster had begun to explore in Leviathan.<br />Mr. Vertigo is the life story of an urchin from the streets of 1920s St. Louis, who, through the most horrific processes imaginable, is taught to levitate by an eccentric Hungarian Jew, the Master Yehudi.  After working out a routine, a performance of sorts, the two take their show on the road and the urchin becomes one of those odditiesthat Americans love to hold close to their hearts, an almost-national treasure.  When he loses his ability to levitate at puberty, his life begins a metaphorical downward spiral, forming the basis for the plot of Mr. Vertigo.<br />This is an odd premise, to say the least, but odd premises have formed the basis of many great and enduring books.  Just look at Gabriel Garcia Marquez and Jose Saramago, to name only two.  In Mr. Vertigo, though, Auster seems to be seeking to undermine himself.  The book is uniformly unpleasant with almost unrelieved scenes of extreme torture, verbal abuse and every bodily excretion possible called into service of the unfolding story.  The problem is, none of these things ever proves to be really relevant to Auster's overall theme of Mr. Vertigo:  the loss of innocence in American life and the ability to feel the presence of magic and dream dreams.<br />Mr. Vertigo encompasses a character who can fly named Walt Rawley.  It doesn't take much of a stretch of the imagination to connect this character to Sir Walter Raleigh.  And the fact that Walt is from St. Louis is also significant.  St. Louis just happens to be the home of the Cardinals and cardinals can and do fly.  And Charles Lindbergh flew the Spirit of St. Louis, not to mention the fact that the Cardinals most famous player was a man with the nickname Dizzy Dean (a variation of Mr. Vertigo?).  The problem is, the only reaction all these connections evoke in us is:  So what?<br />Two marvelous characters, also disciples of the Master, are introduced, developed, then brutally removed from the story.  Their loss, however, is merely glossed over and not given the attention it deserves. Unfortunately, they lose emotional resonance.  Auster shows a similar lack of structural cohesion as Walt attempts to establish the parallel between his own life and Dizzy Dean's baseball career.  Although this goes on for just about ten pages, just in time to prepare us for a pivotal meeting, we have towonder:  If Dean has always meant so much to Walt, then why is he just telling us about it a mere fifty pages from the novel's end?<br />The chapter-by-chapter references to Walt's burgeoning sexuality also seem more than pointless, if not downright repugnant.  Auster does make it clear later in the book that many levitators lose their abilities with the onset of sexual desire but by then we don't really care and Walt seems to be a boy teetering on the brink of true perversion.<br />Walt does, however, have some genuinely admirable qualities.  He is possessed of an unadulterated enthusiasm that can be infectious.  The first-person narrative is fast-paced and never drags.  It is full of street-smart cliches that really do work even though, at times, Walt can sound as if he is riding the crest of an adrenalin-filled high:  &quot;I was an unstoppable force back then, a corner to beat all corners, and I was riding the express train with a one-way ticket to Fat City.&quot;  This is a style unlike Auster's previous works, and, although it takes a few pages to get used to it and to take it seriously, given the general mess Auster makes of his theme and ideas, the prose is kind of refreshing.  Walt, at least, is enjoying this ride.  The least we can do, I guess, is take his word that it was a good one.	2000-11-01
2225863:US	50718004	RHJ8O61MEZGZR	0375700234	322032387	Reading in the Dark: A Novel	Books	5	29	29	N	N	A Beautiful Triumph	Seamus Deane is a wonderful poet as well as a historian and anthologist of Irish literature.  Reading in the Dark, however, is his first novel.  It is both a triumph of literature and of the human spirit; one of the most beautiful books anyone could ever hope to read.<br />Deane, like James Joyce, is a writer who cannot be separated from his native Ireland.  Reading in the Dark is the first-person narrative of a boy, who, like Deane, grew up in Derry in the 1940s and 1950s.  Although the dust jacket says this book is a novel, it reads more like a beautiful, meditative and intensely personal memoir.  We are never told the boy/narrator's name, but there are many named characters in the book: Ellis, Una, Dierdre, Liam, Gerard, Eamon. There is an Uncle Manus and an Aunt Katie.  Additonally, the place names serve to identify this as an unquestionalby Irish book, taking place in Derry.<br />The structure of Reading in the Dark is deliberately jagged but never jarring.  There are short chapters that are further divided into ever shorter episodes.  We are introduced to all of the narrator's many borthers and sisters but only one, Liam, becomes a major character throughout the course of the book.  The other characters deliberately come and go and some are even forgettable, while others are not.<br />The first vignette is dated &quot;February 1945&quot; and the last &quot;July 1971.&quot; All the other vignettes fall within this time frame.  But Derry, the reader must remember, is in Northern Ireland, where the past can never really be separated from the present.  Remembering is an essential part of life in Derry and the past is the present in the fear, the death, the haunted faces of friends and family.  Most of all, though, the past of Derry is present in that most hurtful of all human hurts: betrayal.<br />We first meet the narrator and his mother when she is standing on the landing in their house.  The boy, who is standing on the tenth step says, &quot;I could have touched her.&quot; The mother, however, stops him, saying, &quot;Don't move...There's something there between us.  A shadow. Don't move.&quot; The boy, who sees no shadow, nevertheless obeys. With the passing of the years, however, we, along with the narrator, come to plumb the secrets of this mother's heart; as we learn how her secrets have come to define and torture her, we also learn how they have come to define and trouble her son.<br />The shadows and ghosts in Reading in the Dark come to haunt the narrator in many ways.  As he hears his family speak of events that took place in Derry years before he was born, he comes to wonder why these events happened and why they happened as they did.  <br />We learn the answers to some of the questions but we never learn more than the narrator does.  If something remains to haunt him, it also remains to haunt us.  For the narrator, as for us, the answers come in fragments and not at all in any easy manner.  Together, they form the boy's coming-of-age and they serve to deepen our own understanding of the true nature of human trust and betrayal, the two emotions that most serve to strengthen or destroy the bonds of love.<br />Like other writers of contemporary Irish fiction, Deane's novel breathes life, Irish life, in all of its heartbreaking fullness.  Although very different from Frank McCourt's Tis: A Memoir, Reading in the Dark shares the same refusal to pull back from the sordid in life.  We are exposed to all the dirty streets, the sewers, the vermin, the sickness, the death.  Although Deane's book is relieved with some humor, it is certainly not Rabelaisian gusto.  We are treated instead, to the artful and elusive chuckle of a Celtic twilight.<br />And, while McCourt's father literally sung the praises of the Irish folk stories, the father in Deane's book goes one step further by actually taking his sons to visit the places both sacred and haunted.  One, The Field of the Disappeared which lies near the border of the Irish Free State serves to sum up the narrator's Irish heritage: &quot;There was a belief that it was here that the souls of all those from the area who had disappeared, or had never had a Christian burial...collected three or four times a year--on St. Brigid's Day, on the festival of Sunhain, on Christmas--to cry like birds and look down on the fields where they had been born.  Any human who entered the field would suffer the same fate....&quot;<br />The language in Reading in the Dark is spare, but it is also very poetic and lyrical.  Deane weaves beautifully-crafted stories within his story and even when their relevance to the main plot is not immediately made clear, we still feel their connection, for this book tells the tale of a shadow world, one inhabited by ghosts and demons and spirits, one that lives under the constant threat of political and moral treachery.<br />The title of the book is a masterful stroke of brilliance.  In a vignette called, &quot;Reading in the Dark,&quot; the narrator tells us how he had to turn out his light even though he was in the middle of reading his very first novel.  Lying in the dark, he thinks about the book and holds a conversation with its characters.  &quot;I'd lie there, the book still open, reimagining all I had read, the various ways the plot might unravel, the novel opening into endless possibilities in the dark.&quot; The narrator's life unfolds in much the same way as he seeks to tie the disparate threads, one to the other, in an effort to find their meaning.<br />Ultimately, Reading in the Dark is a beautiful triumph; a gorgeous book, poetically written that reveals much about the nature of mankind's greatest mystery, the mystery we call...Life.	2000-11-01
2229362:US	50718004	R1SBMNDXZ7WDFI	0380731479	529493659	The Kiss	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Harrowing Loneliness	I have read, and liked, Kathryn Harrison's beautiful books, Thicker Than Water and Poison, so when The Kiss was published, I was more than a little dismayed.  Why, I asked myself, would a beautiful and talented writer like Harrison want to &quot;cash in&quot; with an exploitative piece of tripe like this?  I really wasn't sure I even believed the events Harrison was writing about had even happened, but for now, I would give her the benefit of the doubt.<br />Then a friend, knowing I was a fan of Harrison's, gave me a copy of The Kiss.  It was too perverse to read, I thought, and I threw it in a closet.  But, eventually, morbid curiosity got the best of me and I read the book.  I was both shocked and pleased.  Shocked at what the book portrayed, and pleased to find that Harrison wasn't &quot;cashing in&quot; on anything.  The Kiss is a wonderful book, and, it is wonderfully written.  It is spare, revealing, raw, dignified and one of the most harrowing evocations of loneliness I have ever encountered.<br />Harrison was an only child whose father deserted his little family when Kathryn was only six months old.  Her mother, who was severely depressed, spent her days in bed, a black satin mask shielding her from the outside world.  Kathryn, as a tiny girl, would spend days at her sleeping mother's bedside, dropping shoes, slamming hairbrushes, peering inside the sleep mask, willing this unwilling mother to please wake up and love her.  The mother didn't.<br />At the age of six, Kathryn was sent to live with her Grandmother while her mother moved to a nearby apartment.  Missing her mother, Kathryn would go to look at the dresses her mother had left behind.  One day, folding herself into a beautiful sun-gold dress, this little girl summoned the courage to ask herself, &quot;If a dress like this was not worth taking, how could I have hoped to be?&quot;<br />Far from being bitter over her husband's abandonment, Kathryn's mother remained romantically fixated on Kathryn's father.  He visited when Kathryn was only five and she can remember her mother's intense interest in him and the way he would &quot;arrange&quot; them for his own family photographs.<br />As a teenager, Kathryn became severely anorexic.  She tells us it was a sign of rebellion against her mother's blatant sexuality.  Her breasts disappeared, then her hips, then her periods.  When her mother took her to a gynecologist to be fitted for a diaphragm, prior to going off to college, Kathryn endured one the most bizarre situations I have ever encountered, in &quot;life&quot; or in fiction.  Suffice it to say, if you read this book, it will certainly shock you.<br />When Kathryn was twenty, her father again visited.  Although he was remarried and had children with his new wife, Kathryn was well aware that her own mother had been carrying on secret sexual encounters with this man.  &quot;She uses his curiosity about me, and mine about him,&quot; Harrison writes, &quot;as the excuse to plan a reunion that will include her.  If this is the case, how bitterly she will regret the ruse.&quot;<br />Kathryn's father did visit and while he was there, he slept with Kathryn's mother.  It was Kathryn, however, who drove him to the airport to catch his flight home.  And it was there that her father first kissed her goodbye.  But this was no ordinary kiss, at least not ordinary for a father and a daughter.  &quot;He touches his lips to mine,&quot; Harrison says.  &quot;I stiffen.  My father pushed his tongue into my mouth:  wet, insistent, exploring, then withdrawn.&quot;<br />Yes, she was old enough to know better, and, in fact, she did know better.  But life and the circumstances under which she had grown up, the needs that had still gone unmet--all of these and more converged at the moment of that kiss to propel Kathryn Harrison over the edge of reason and place her in her father's power.<br />Never light-hearted and carefree, Kathryn quit college and fell into a deep depression, one shedescribes as a &quot;cold, sinking torpor.&quot;  She lived alone in a basement apartment, talking to her father on the telephone for hours each night as her persuaded her, isolated her and finally seduced her.  He was, after all, all she had.  Even the love letters he sent her, she later discovered, were replicas of ones he had sent her mother twenty years earlier.<br />They slept together, father and daughter.  &quot;God gave you to me,&quot; was her father's explanation, as if this made things alright, as if this was all the explanation that was needed.  Kathryn, depressed and impressionable couldn't see her father for what he really was--a selfish, self-centered narcissist who would use anyone and anything to further his own needs and wants.<br />Readers who are looking for all the gory details won't find them in this book, for Kathryn remembers very little about having sex with her father save for the fact that it definitely was not good and it definitely made her feel more alone than she had ever felt before.<br />To her credit, Kathryn's mother, suspecting the truth of what was happening, put aside her own vanity long enough to take Kathryn to a psychiatrist.  There, the young Kathryn put on the performance of a lifetime and robbed her mother, not only of her father, but of the only human being in whom her mother could confide.<br />The worst, though, was yet to come, and it would be a long time before Harrison could free herself and write The Kiss.<br />The Kiss is not the first book to chronicle adult incest nor is it the most famous to do so.  Anaïs Nin reportedly slept with her own father, but Nin was a notoriously unreliable writer, albeit a very good one.  It doesn't help, either, that we really have no signposts in the world of incest literature. Many of us find dinner with our mother and father an excruciating experience; almost no grown man or woman wants to sleep with a parent.<br />Wisely, Harrison offers no excuses for her behavior as she knews there are none.  She knows it was wrong and she knows it was ludicrous.  But human behavior is usually inexplicable, the good, the bad, the mundane and yes, the ludicrous.  Harrison has let the facts stand or fall as they may; her usual lyric prose is pared-down and she resists any temptation to go over the top.  The result is that The Kiss is a harrowing account of loneliness and deprivation, the worst nightmare any child could ever imagine.<br />One of the keys to Harrison's own healing is to be found in the book's dedication to &quot;Beloved 1942-1985.&quot;  &quot;Beloved&quot; is Kathryn's mother, now deceased.  After years of roiling over her mother's faults and the wrong that was done to her, Kathryn Harrison finally found peace and reconciliation.  She became &quot;beloved&quot; to her mother and her mother became &quot;beloved&quot; to her.<br />This is a painful and painfully honest book, harrowing, sad and lonely.  But, ultimately, it is the chronicle of one woman's courageous triumph, a triumph that can be appreciated by any other woman, abuse survivor or not.  For is there any daughter among us who cannot say, with all honesty, &quot;If things had only been a little different, it could have been me?&quot;	2000-10-28
2229477:US	50718004	R14X7FGUGPVUMG	0520216067	452208432	Jane Austen: A Life	Books	3	12	14	N	N	Not Quite	In her 1928 essay, &quot;A Room of One's Own,&quot; Virginia Woolf laments as &quot;deplorable&quot; the absence of a history of British women prior to the eighteenth century.  &quot;...at what age,&quot; Woolf writes, &quot;should she marry; how many children had she as a rule; what was her house like?...after all, we have lives enough of Jane Austen.&quot;<br />What, though, was Jane Austen's life really like?  What was Jane Austen really like?  The 1970s, 1980s and 1990s have seen a veritable flowering of Austen biographies and studies (Marilyn Butler, Roger Sales, Jan Fergus, Tony Tanner, Claudia Johnson) that would no doubt have impressed even Virginia Woolf, by sheer number alone, if by nothing else.<br />David Nokes's biography, Jane Austen:  A Life differs from many of the others in its presentation of Austen, not as a staid moralist or a stoic spinster, but as a member of a manipulative and conniving family.  To this end, Nokes focuses on the correspondence, not of Jane per se, but rather on that of the extended Austen family and especially Jane's cousin, Eliza de la Feuillide.  The book, especially the first half, could just have easily been called Eliza de la Feuillide:  The Fascinating Life of Jane Austen's Cousin.<br />This extension is justified in that it does answer many questions about Austen's more adventurous and worldly siblings, relatives and friends.  For example, Eliza Hancock de la Feuillide Austen was no doubt the natural daughter of a colonial administrator in India by the name of Warren Hastings.  In her early twenties Eliza married a French nobleman, who sadly, was sent to the guillotine only a few years later.  Eliza, herself, escaped France with her young son and lived as a glamorous demimodaine &quot;Countess&quot; in Regency London, her life only becoming staid and prosaic after her marriage to the much younger Henry Austen, Jane's older brother and Eliza's own first cousin.<br />Nokes's &quot;novelizes&quot; this biography by paraphrasing the Austen family letters.  It is an approach that does not always work, at times sounding quite artificial and contrived.  In the book's opening sentences, for example, Nokes's writes:  &quot;Bengal, 1773:  It is the rainy season in the Sunderbunds.  Inside his lonely makeshift hut the Surgeon-Extraordinary sits writing a letter home to his wife in England.  The livid orange sun is sinking over this dismal region of fetid salt-flats, swamp and jungle...It is three years since he last saw his wife, and he knows now that he will never see her again.  Toil and disease have wasted his body and depressed his spirits.&quot;  <br />Much later, in recounting a scene between Jane Austen and her brother Frank, Nokes's writes:  &quot;The St. Helena islanders, said Frank, charged so much to passing ships for even the simplest supplies that a couple of acres of potatoes or a garden of cabbages there would provide a decent dowry for an daughter.  Jane looked down into their beautiful Castle Square garden and thought of Edward Bridges.  Would syringas do instead, she wondered?&quot;  <br />Fortunately, Nokes's does focus on the important figures of Eliza, Henry and Cassandra Austen in Jane Austen's life and the role they played in shaping her unique Regency voice.  Unfortunately, the &quot;novelizing&quot; of the Austen family letters grows extremely tiresome and quickly becomes a detriment to the overall quality of this book.  There are a lot of Jane Austen biographies out there.  Although it does have its redeeming qualities, this one was simply not my favorite.	2000-10-28
2229478:US	50718004	RXZ3IZYGQMG76	067976402X	877433184	Snow Falling On Cedars	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Incredibly Rich and Multi-Layered	Snow Falling on Cedars is a rich, atmospheric, multi-layered book.  The plot centers on a doomed love and a murder trial a decade later.  The young lovers are Ishmael Chambers, son of the local newspaper editor in a small town in the Pacific Northwest and Hatsue Miyamoto, the daughter of Japanese-Americans and the wife of the man accused of murder.<br />Ishmael and Hatsue meet during the time of Pearl Harbor, and, although they do love each other, we know their love is doomed from the start.  Although Ishmael's father runs editorials proclaiming, &quot;These people are our neighbors,&quot; emotions run against anyone of Japanese descent during this time in American history and the government eventually seizes their property and detains them in internment camps.<br />A decade passes and Ishmael, himself, now sadly missing one arm, is editor of the paper and covering a sensational murder trial at which Hatuse's husband, Kazuo, whom she married in one of the camps, is the defendant.<br />Is Snow Falling on Cedars is crime story or is it a romance?  It is both and it is neither and it is so much more.  It is an incredibly complex novel that unfolds quietly and gradually in flashbacks, dreams, half-understood events and flashes of memory, all rendered in a variety of styles each suited to the specific thing it reveals.  All of this feels quite natural, though, and nothing comes off as artificial or contrived.<br />Snow Falling on Cedars is a novel in which the sense of place is crucial.  This novel has to take place where it does and Guterson is very good at entwining his story in the landscape of the tress, the clouds and the darkening sky, the wetness and the shadows, the rain and the snow.  Rarely does a book come along in which place plays so great a role in the narrative.  <br />The biggest weakness in Snow Falling on Cedars is in the development of the character of Kazuo.  We get to know him through Ishmael's eyes and so he remains emotionally distant, not quite cardboard cut-out, but not quite real, either.<br />If Snow Falling on Cedars has one fault that makes it a four-star book rather than a five-star, it is lack of emotional engagement.  Although the characters, with the possible exception of Kazuo, are fully-realized, we just never learn enough about each one's psyche to have true empathy with their plight.  Guterson is a very good writer but he seems to want to keep us at arm's length.  We feel as though this were someone else's story, not one we can become a part of.  Perhaps Guterson wants it that way in an attempt to preserve the book's quiet sense of dignity.<br />Snow Falling on Cedars is a very good book, better than most.  It is just not one that most people will remember for years and years to come.	2000-10-28
2229708:US	50718004	R30CVIOQBKX23Q	0679745203	152918541	The English Patient	Books	5	6	12	N	N	A Spellbinding Web of Love	The English Patient is Michael Ondaatje's masterpiece and one of the most hauntingly beautiful books of the twentieth century, evoking an eroticism and emotional connection with readers that many would not have believed possible.  It is a novel that asks questions for which no answers exist; a poetic and multi-layered mystery that unravels slowly, only very gradually revealing its fatally wounded inner core of a love that could never be.<br />The English Patient takes place in World War II Italy.  A man, the &quot;English patient,&quot; his skin burnt to a crisp, lies dying in a makeshift hospital amid the ruins of an ancient monastery.  The Canadian nurse who has stayed behind to care for him, Hana, is fighting demons of her own.  As the novel opens, Hana and the English patient are alone but they are not alone for long.  Soon, two bomb disposal experts and a mysterious man named Caravaggio arrive at the monastery.  Caravaggio is a murky character with even murkier motives in life, but it is clear from the outset that he harbors a tremenous amount of rage at the capriciousness of life and that he carries with him a hidden agenda all his own.<br />Although, from the beginning, there is apparently no hope for the English patient's survival, Hana cares for him tenderly, bathing his rotting skin, even bestowing gentle and sincere kisses upon his burnt lips.  Perhaps if she can heal him, she might have one more chance at healing herself.  The English patient cannot drink, he cannot speak, he can remember nothing.  He reminds Hana of other men, countless men, she has seen die during this terrible war.  Afraid that her own presence might contribute to the specter of death, Hana wonders, &quot;I must be a curse.  Anybody who loves me--who gets close to me--is killed.&quot;<br />The bomb disposal squad includes a handsome Sikh named Kip.  When Hana finds herself attracted to him, she resists the attraction, feeling that the curse she unwittingly places on the lives of others could affect Kip as well.  When the English patient is given access to a book found near his body, a very old, leather-bound volume of Herodotus, his memories begin to return.  As Hana reads to him he remembers fragments, flashes, nuances.  He dreams.  Enough to tantalize but not enough to tell us everything...at first.<br />The deatils of what the English patient remembers are the threads of love and betrayal that weave the poetic and lyrical tapestry of this gorgeous and heartbreaking story, so I will not give them away here.  The skeletal outline, however, becomes clear very early in the book.  The English patient is not really English at all, but Hungarian.  He is a Hungarian count, named Laszlo de Almasy who was sent to Egypt, attached to the Royal Geographic Society as a pilot.  A pilot who flew over the desert making maps for research purposes as well as maps that could also be used by the English during the war.<br />In Cairo, before fate strikes one of its cruelest blows, Almasy meets an energic British woman named Katherine Clifton.  Although newly-married, Katherine is not happy with her husband, Geoffrey.  Her attraction to Almasy is immediate, as is his to her.  Later, when the two find themselves alone in the desert, they will be called upon to confront their love.  Their decision will have lasting repercussions for both of them.<br />Almasy is a man who, in life, as well as in death, conceals rather than reveals.  It was Katharine and Katharine, only, who, with her energy and her zest for life, could release all the pent-up passions of Almasy.  Without her, he becomes withdrawn once again.  His personality is perfectly suited to the slow unraveling of the mystery of The English Patient.  For it is a mystery, and one that can only be exposed by the charred man who lies in the bed in the ruined monastery.  Little by little, Almasy remembers and the pieces become clear.  As they do, the lives of these four people, Hana, Kip, Caravaggio and Almasy become more and more entwined.<br />The English Patient is a labyrinth of a novel, yet it has a skeletal quality as well.  Perhaps that is because Ondaatje's prose is a perfect reflection of the love shared by Almasy and Katherine:  so lyrical, so poetic, so gossamer in its beauty that it feels as though one breath would be enough to cause the entire thing to simply dissipate before our very eyes.  The plot is not a linear one; Ondaatje fades back in time, then loops forward to the present, then fades back again.  But the story is so perfectly-crafted, so beautifully and hearbreakingly told, that nothing could flow more easily.  Ondaatje works his magic slowly, quietly, but surely unraveling the web that comes to bind these four tragically wounded and disparate lives.<br />The English Patient is a book that will, without a doubt, withstand the rigors of the test of time.  It is a lavishly poetic love story and one that touches the depths of love and romance inherent in the human heart like no other.	2000-10-28
2229795:US	50718004	RPWQWLQCVU5VE	038549081X	709722953	The Handmaid's Tale	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Atwood's Masterpiece	&quot;I wish this story were different.  I wish it were more civilized.  I wish it showed me in a better light, if not happiness, then at least more active.&quot;  So says master writer Margaret Atwood regarding her tour de force, The Handmaid's Tale.  Set in the future (in what is currently Massachusetts), Margaret Atwood's The Handmaid's Tale is the chilling portrayal of a totalitarian society as told through the eyes of a Handmaid named Offred.  Offred, who can remember the time when she had a home, a husband and a daughter, now serves as a &quot;birth vessel&quot; and is valued only for her powers of reproduction.<br />Offred (her name was derived from &quot;of&quot; and the name of her own Commander, &quot;Fred&quot;) is forced to live her life in a new dictatorship called the Republic of Gilead.  Offred is allowed to leave her Commander's home only once each day; her freedom, like that of other ordinary civilians, has been stripped from her and she exists at the mercy of the heads of state who are known as the Commanders.<br />The Republic of Gilead, however, is a society in the midst of crisis.  Its land and atmosphere have been polluted by nuclear waste and all but a handful of the population has been rendered barren.  Those infertile women, women who will never, or never again, reproduce, are known as &quot;Unwomen,&quot; and are sent to the Colonies where they must toil as laborers with no privileges, working to clean up the nuclear waste.  The only exceptions are the infertile Wives of the Commanders.  Women lucky enough to still retain their fertility, like Offred, are considered a treasured &quot;object&quot; of society and one whose role is to bear children for the Wives of the Commanders who cannot.  In the Republic of Gilead they have a saying, &quot;There's no such thing as a sterile man...there are only women who are barren.&quot;  Offred, though, knows that in this nuclear aftermath, sterile men do, indeed, exist, and so she prays for a baby; nota baby that she, herself, wants to love, but one that will keep her from the dreaded fate of the &quot;Unwomen.&quot;<br />Many of the events in The Handmaid's Tale are derived from the biblical story of Leah and Rachel and Atwood has chosen to use many biblical names throughout the book.  There are Handmaids and Marthas, Angels and Guardians and many others.<br />The Handmaid's Tale is written in Atwood's masterful prose but this is not a linear tale.  Be prepared to drop back in time, then flash forward, then drop back again.  The writing, though, flows effortlessly and Atwood, as always, manages to keep readers riveted to the page.<br />Although many people might feel that The Handmaid's Tale is too futuristic to be plausible, many of the events depicted have happened or are happening somewhere in the world at this very moment.  It doesn't take more than a few minutes to recall places where gender discrimination and human rights have all but been stripped away.  Atwood, herself, said, &quot;One of the things I avoided doing was describing anything in the novel that didn't happen in this world.&quot;<br />Chilling, moving, vivid, terrifying and sometimes even humorous, The Handmaid's Tale is a profoundly moral story.  It is a true masterpiece of power and grace that will someday attain the status of a classic.	2000-10-28
2229962:US	50718004	RA37INRQYMOGZ	0385491468	187656472	These Demented Lands	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Dark and Surreal	These Demented Lands, Alan Warner's second novel is a sequel of sorts to his highly praised first novel, Morvern Callar.  These Demented Lands is a dark, eerie, surreal and sometimes hilarious journey into the landscape of postmodern literature.  Warner's characters are carefully crafted and highly memorable and posses many of the qualities of archetypes.  The novel, itself, is somewhat of a dark and stormy post-apocalyptic fantasy.<br />The book's protagonist is Morvern Callar, herself.  As the novel opens, Morvern is swimming away from a sinking ship, a small girl in tow.  After returning the child safely home, Morvern begins her own strange journey across the island.  Rumors concerning the fate of the other passengers on board the ship abound and, as they do, a host of newcomers descends on the island.  Morvern meets, and is immediately attracted to, a mysterious man known only as the Aircrash Investigator.  Although he seems to be pillaging the island's makeshift fences and sheds for crash debris, his real purpose is something of a mystery.<br />Warner has peopled his novel with an odd assortment of characters, yet each one is perfect and perfectly-drawn.  Besides Morvern, herself, and the Aircrash Investigator, there is Devil's Advocate, a cigar-smoking fat man who assesses candidates for sainthood; there is Brotherhood, the owner of the Drome Hotel, a popular honeymoon resort; and a DJ who is determined to put together the biggest party the island has ever known.  The myriad of minor characters that live in the pages of this novel are just as perfect.<br />The prose in These Demented Lands can be difficult at times, especially for those who prefer a more flowing style.  Warner, however, is one of the most talented writers now at work and this book is superbly told with Morvern's own independent and unflinching frankness.  The dialogue is sometimes as absurd as is the character speaking, but this only enhances the book's believability and its appeal as well asits strangeness.  Warner's story does parallel certain Christian myths, in a surreal sort of way, as should soon become apparent, from the characters' strange names, if nothing else.  And, although this is a dark book, some of the dialogue is hilariously funny.<br />These Demented Lands is a complex story about complex characters.  It is too bad it has been somewhat overlooked in favor of more commercial but far less polished books.  Alan Warner is an extraordinarily good writer and These Demented Lands is an extraordinarily good novel.	2000-10-28
2230501:US	50718004	R2TLMLR6E22EWS	038549081X	709722953	The Handmaid's Tale	Books	5	346	376	N	N	Atwood's Masterpiece	&quot;I wish this story were different.  I wish it were more civilized.  I wish it showed me in a better light, if not happiness, then at least more active.&quot;  So says master writer Margaret Atwood regarding her tour de force, The Handmaid's Tale.  Set in the present-day Massachusetts of the future, Margaret Atwood's The Handmaid's Tale is the chilling portrayal of a totalitarian society as told through the eyes of a Handmaid named Offred.  Offred, who can remember the time when she had a home, a husband and a daughter, now serves as a &quot;birth vessel&quot; and is valued only for her powers of reproduction.<br />Offred (her name was derived from &quot;of&quot; and the name of her own Commander, &quot;Fred&quot;) is forced to live her life in a new dictatorship called the Republic of Gilead.  Offred is allowed to leave her Commander's home only once each day; her freedom, like that of other ordinary civilians, has been stripped from her and she exists at the mercy of the heads of state who are known as the Commanders.<br />The Republic of Gilead, however, is a society in the midst of crisis.  Its land and atmosphere have been polluted by nuclear waste and all but a handful of the population has been rendered barren.  Those infertile women, women who will never, or never again, reproduce, are known as &quot;Unwomen,&quot; and are sent to the Colonies where they must toil as laborers with no privileges, working to clean up the nuclear waste.  The only exceptions are the infertile Wives of the Commanders.  Women lucky enough to still retain their fertility, like Offred, are considered a treasured &quot;object&quot; of society and one whose role is to bear children for the Wives of the Commanders who cannot.  In the Republic of Gilead they have a saying, &quot;There's no such thing as a sterile man...there are only women who are barren.&quot;  Offred, though, knows that in this nuclear aftermath, sterile men do, indeed, exist, and so she prays for a baby; not a baby that she, herself, wants to love, but one that will keep her from the dreaded fate of the &quot;Unwomen.&quot;<br />Many of the events in The Handmaid's Tale are derived from the biblical story of Leah and Rachel and Atwood has chosen to use many biblical names throughout the book.  There are Handmaids and Marthas, Angels and Guardians and many others.<br />The Handmaid's Tale is written in Atwood's masterful prose but this is not a linear tale.  Be prepared to drop back in time, then flash forward, then drop back again.  The writing, though, flows effortlessly and Atwood, as always, manages to keep readers riveted to the page.<br />Although many people might feel that The Handmaid's Tale is too futuristic to be plausible, many of the events depicted have happened or are happening somewhere in the world at this very moment.  It doesn't take more than a few minutes to recall places where gender discrimination and human rights have all but been stripped away.  Atwood, herself, said, &quot;One of the things I avoided doing was describing anything in the novel that didn't happen in this world.&quot;<br />Chilling, moving, vivid, terrifying and sometimes even humorous, The Handmaid's Tale is a profoundly moral story.  It is a true masterpiece of power and grace that will someday attain the status of a classic.	2000-10-27
2231349:US	50718004	R3V7IX5A638U1U	0786865504	186495277	World of Pies: A Novel	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Light and Charming	Karen Stolz's series of Texas family vignettes, starring Roxanne Milner is strewn with recipes for delicious, mouth-watering pies.  It is a gentle and light look at small town life in rural America.<br />World of Pies opens in the summer of 1962, when Roxanne is a gangly, awkward twelve year old who is interested in baseball and the outdoors.  Her family, however, seems to be enjoying an obsession with pies.  Dad is head of the Chamber of Commerce pie fair and Mom is serving on the contest rules committee.  Conflict erupts over whether or not one of the local pillars of society will be allowed to enter as her own, a pie that was, in reality, baked by her extremely talented black housekeeper.  This vignette, the first one, is wittily constructed so that our heroine, Roxanne, learns both the art of making a flaky piecrust and the consequences of taking, and maintaining, a stand.<br />The book goes on to chronicle many stages in the indomitable Roxanne's life; we see her grow from a tomboy into a teenager obsessed with dating to a wife and mother.  The stories Stolz creates to illuminate the life of her character are finely-rendered and understated and she tosses in a pie recipe every now and then just to sweeten things up a bit.<br />These vignettes are gentle and heart-warming and a little reminiscent of Fannie Flagg.  One of the most tender of all the vignettes showcases Roxanne's father as he sneaks off to WMCA swimming classes with the little ones so he can learn to swim in time to surprise Roxanne's mother on an upcoming vacation.  We experience Mr. Milner as a man who loves his family and a man, who, even after many years of marriage, is still in love with his wife.<br />Other vignettes are more bittersweet.  These are the ones that, in the hands of a lesser author, could so easily degenerate into soap-opera type cliché.  Stolz, however, renders them perfectly, and what we see is a loving portrait of a &quot;real&quot; family, one that makes us laugh and one that makes us cry.<br />This is a lovely little book and one that is fun to read.  Although charming, it will leave you wanting to know more about the Milner's, so quintessential small town Americana, and the loving fabric that makes up their lives.	2000-10-27
2233494:US	50718004	R3GJXYBEDHIXSL	0684859068	302392775	How To Read and Why	Books	5	52	57	N	N	A Very Convincing Argument	Before he was even eight years old, Harold Bloom could chant the verses of Blake and Housman.  This is more of an accomplishment than it might seem when one considers what Bloom was saying:  &quot;O rose, thou art sick!/The invisible word/That flies in the night/In the howling storm/Has found out thy bed/Of crimson joy,/And his dark secret love/Does thy life destroy.&quot;<br />Although these lyrics remain wonderful poetry, they are not what the usual eight-year old boy chooses to commit to memory.  At the age of seventy, when this book was written, Bloom had not really changed so much from the precocious little boy he had been at eight.  He was still chanting, still being pretentious and showy and he was still the world's premier reader.  I don't know if Bloom was great fun when he was eight but he was certainly great fun at seventy.  <br />In How to Read and Why, Bloom laments the death of memorized verse, telling us that people today now read far fewer poems than they did previously and with far less attention, simply because they don't have to.  But, he goes on, the very fact that we don't have to is no excuse for not doing so.  He exhorts us to try harder; learn more; read better.<br />Those who are familiar with Bloom will not be surprised to find, in this book, that he adores the poetry of eighteenth-century England.  The poets writing at that time despaired of everything but a strong sense of self and its tremendous power of endurance.  Bloom, himself, despairs of computers, television and anything else that draws our attention away from quality reading.  Quality is the all-important key word to Bloom.  Poe, Bloom tells us, wrote atrociously even though he remains immensely popular.  du Maupassant, he says, wore Schopenhauerian goggles causing his short stories to be but distortions of human desire.<br />Even those who found The Western Canon dry and joyless will find Bloom's love of great literature, in How to Read and Why, infectious.  If you've never readProust, Bloom can make you wonder why.  The same for Flannery O'Conner, Italo Calvino, Cormac McCarthy, Eudora Welty and even Robert Browning.  &quot;Information is endlessly available to us;&quot; says Bloom, &quot;where shall wisdom be found?&quot;  It is a rhetorical question only and Bloom provides the answer:  here, in this book, and in the books he praises.<br />Although Bloom maintains that How to Read and Why is definitely not polemic, there are many, both within and without academia, who would certainly disagree.  Speaking of universities in general, Bloom says, &quot;A university culture where the appreciation of Victorian women's underwear replaces the appreciation of Charles Dickens and Robert Browning sounds like the outrageousness of a new Nathanael West, but is merely the norm...The poems of our climate have been replaced by the body stockings of our culture.&quot;  You can't get much more outspoken than that.<br />Coming from anyone but the indomitable Harold Bloom, these assertions might sound somewhat pompous.  When Bloom utters them, however, they sound, not only convincing, but refreshing.  &quot;If you wish to maintain,&quot; he says, &quot;that Shakespeare's ascendancy was a product of colonialism, then who will bother to confute you?&quot;  Who indeed?  Yes, some great literary works are unthinkable without a thriving empire, although a thriving empire says nothing about a work's shortcomings as a true measure of art.<br />Bloom rails against the collectivist, materialist demons who have all but destroyed American universities.  At the same time, he champions the solitary reader, summoning the likes of Emerson, Dr. Johnson and Francis Bacon in support.  The best advice, Bloom tells us, comes from Bacon:  &quot;Read not to contradict and confute, nor to believe and take for granted, nor to find talk and discourse, but to weigh and consider.&quot;<br />Bloom's fifth principle for reading, the recovery of the ironic is no doubt the most convincing argument in the entire book.  For Bloom, the loss of irony is a terrible thing.  It signifies, for him, the death of reading as a serious pursuit and the ultimate death of civilization.  Hamlet is for Bloom, the master of irony; the man who says one thing and yet always means another.  No one, says Bloom, knows how to read Hamlet anymore.<br />Anyone who reads this book should also read Philip Roth's novel, The Human Stain.  Roth is nothing if he is not one hundred proof Bloom.  The Ghost Writer certainly showed more than a little of The Anxiety of Influence.  The Human Stain, however, is, in part, a violent critique of the coven of academic materialism so hated by Bloom.  The same intelligence, the same zest for the sensual and the intellectual pervades both Bloom, in How to Read and Why and The Human Stain.<br />Bloom seeks to marry the intellectual to the sensual in our experience of reading as a difficult pleasure, but a pleasure nonetheless.  This, says Bloom, is &quot;the Readers Sublime.&quot;  It is a sublime that helps us transcend loss, despair, grief, even death.  It is the ultimate reason of how we should read and, more to the point, why.	2000-10-25
2233697:US	50718004	R2RCZ62R2C46JY	0812909216	180528299	Anus Mundi: 1,500 Days in Auschwitz/Birkenau (English and German Edition)	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Detailed and Shattering	Anus Mundi--1500 Days in Auschwitz/Birkenau is a detailed and shattering view of life in the death camps of the Holocaust.  Unlike the writing of Elie Wiesel, Jean Amery, and to a lesser extent, Primo Levi, which is deeply and movingly introspective, Wieslaw Kielar details the brutalities of life in the camps with a simple objectivity that is unsparing in its directness.  In this narrative, we learn nothing about Kielar prior to June 1940 and nothing about him after his liberation of the camps four years later.  We do know he is Polish Catholic who occasionally prays, but other than that the book is devoid of religious, philosophical or political overtones.<br />The dozens of camp vignettes that the author has accumulated in this book are as sharp as the eye of a camera: brilliant, detailed, focused and memorable.  The closest comparison in style would be Borowski, Kielar's tragic countryman.  In each case, the strict lack of sentiment and intellectual elaboration serve only to heighten the horror and leave us with no doubt as to the authenticity of the recollections and their attendant suffering.<br />Although Kielar's misery was unrelieved, for all its deprivations, his fate was slightly easier that that of the Jewish prisoners.  This is in no way meant to be disparaging.  Kielar suffered more than his share of harsh blows, severe winters, starvation and infestation with lice and fleas.  Although not a Jew, for Kielar, too, the brutalities of the sadistic Kapos were never far away.  His memoir records a long season in hell that would have destroyed a lesser man.<br />Amidst this suffering and degradation, however, Kielar reveals that contacts with the civilian world outside of the camp were still possible for him, that he was entitled to receive packages from home, that correspondence with his family took place with a certain amount of regularity and most of all, that he did not live each day in fear of the ovens and gas chambers which were reserved for the arriving Jews.  Those Jews whose lives were spared suffered a fate that proved, ultimately, to be harsher than that suffered by Kielar and the other Polish political prisoners.<br />This is an intimate and extremely well-written book about the horrors of the Holocaust and it contains a wealth of information.  One must though, when reading, remember that there were qualitatively different orders of experience among the various inmates of the camps.  Kielar could, at least, count on the fact that he had a chance of outlasting and overcoming the wretchedness.  The Jews, however, were from the moment of their arrival, marked for certain death.  If not immediately dispatched to the gas chamber, they were worked until death mercifully overtook them.<br />The acknowledgment of this distinction among the prisoners in no way detracts from the vividness or the pathos of Kielar's memoir of his 1500 days in hell.  We must read and remember each survivor's story for its own unique reasons.  In Kielar's case, the reasons are compelling enough to make this a first-class memoir in the annals of Holocaust literature.ng Jews.  Those Jews whose lives were spared suffered a fate that proved, ultimately, to be harsher than that suffered by Kielar and the other Polish political prisoners.<br />This is an intimate and extremely well-written book about the horrors of the Holocaust and it contains a wealth of information.  One must though, when reading, remember that there were qualitatively different orders of experience among the various inmates of the camps.  Kielar could, at least, count on the fact that he had a chance of outlasting and overcoming the wretchedness.  The Jews, however, were from the moment of their arrival, marked for certain death.  If not immediately dispatched to the gas chamber, they were worked until death mercifully overtook them.<br />The acknowledgment of this distinction among the prisoners in no way detracts from the vividness or the pathos of Kielar's memoir of his 1500 days in hell.  We must read and remember each survivor's story for its own unique reasons.  In Kielar's case, the reasons are compelling enough to make this a first-class memoir in the annals of Holocaust literature.	2000-10-25
2234188:US	50718004	R6W8ICA8RCZDX	1573225142	106716475	The Western Canon: The Books and School of the Ages	Books	5	136	146	N	N	Worth Anyone's Consideration	Harold Bloom has been, arguably, the world's best reader, the most wide-ranging and the most retentive.  Some people believe his book, The Western Canon, verges on the audacious since Bloom dares to list what Western  literary works are canonical as well as what ones will be.<br />While the appendices, with their lists of books, are the section of The Western Canon that provokes the most argument, these take up relatively few of the book's 578 pages.  Bloom begins with a &quot;Preface and Prelude,&quot; then indicates the mood the book will assume in &quot;An Elegy for the Canon.&quot;  Adopting Giambattista Vico's theory of history, Bloom then goes on to discuss twenty-six writers from different ages of literature.  From the Aristocratic Age:  Shakespeare, Dante, Chaucer, Cervantes, Montaigne, Molière, Milton, Johnson and Goethe; from the Democratic Age:  Wordsworth, Austen, Whitman, Dickinson, Dickens, George Eliot, Tolstoy and Ibsen; and from the Chaotic Age:  Freud, Proust, Joyce, Woolf, Kafka, Borges, Neruda, Pessoa and Beckett.  Just before the appendices is the &quot;Elegiac Conclusion,&quot; in which Bloom says he has &quot;very little confidence that literary education will survive its current malaise,&quot; but he hopes that there will be &quot;literate survivors.&quot;<br />Early in the book, Bloom tells us that he is not interested in the debate among those want to preserve the Western canon and those who want to destroy it.  Instead, Bloom is interested only in literary aesthetics and he claims that canonicity comes &quot;only by aesthetic strength, which is constituted primarily of an amalgam:  mastery of figurative language, originality, cognitive power, knowledge, exuberance of diction.&quot;  Bloom believes in the existence of canons, he says, because the very brevity of life prevents us from reading more than a fraction of the literature created by various authors throughout the centuries.<br />The Western Canon is more than an interesting book; it is also very thought-provoking.  Some of the questions raised include:  Is canonicity always the result of one writer's triumph over a great literary ancestor?  Do not canons, to some degree, depend on the choices of the wealthy as well as on chance, luck or other devices of caprice?  Does Bloom put too much emphasis on cognitive difficulty, choosing books that few readers outside of universities would ever want to read, much less reread?  Then there is the excessive praise of Shakespeare as the entire center of the Western Canon.  Is this perceptive criticism or does it cross the line into idolatry?<br />There are those who believe Bloom is too quick to dismiss the moral value of literature.  Shelley, they say, went too far in his Defence of Poetry in praising great literature for enlarging a reader's imagination and thus leading to moral improvement.  But Bloom, say the same critics, fails to go far enough in acknowledging the moral implications inherent in all great literature.<br />The greatest arguments, however, are reserved for the lists at the end of the book.  How could Bloom leave out this author and include that?  Why is this book included and that one is not?  But even the critics have to praise Bloom for the breadth of his lists; his idea of the Western canon includes authors from the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Western Asia, Africa, the West Indies and South America.  Bloom even notes The Mahabharata and the Ramayana and says that &quot;ignorance of the Koran is foolish and increasingly dangerous.&quot;  Bloom has also included English-language works by writers whom one would not necessarily think of as Western, for example:  R.K. Narayan, Salman Rushdie and Ruth Prawer Jhabvala.<br />Another source of controversy has been the (almost) exclusion of female authors.  Bloom does mention Alice Walker even before he gets to his lists, but he refuses to say anything good about her.  Regarding the works of Toni Morrison, Bloom sees fit to include only Song of Solomon in the canon.  He omits all works by Sylvia Plath, Anne Sexton, Adrienne Rich, Ayn Rand, Bobbie Ann Mason and Pearl Buck.  To be fair, Bloom leaves out a number of male authors as well, authors whom one would have assumed would have been included such as John Gardner, John Updike (represented only by The Witches of Eastwick) and Arthur Miller (represented only by Death of a Salesman).<br />Although some have accused Bloom of composing a canon made up of Dead White European Males, he does include several American authors in his lists as well as devoting half chapters to Jane Austen and George Eliot and full chapters to Emily Dickinson and Virginia Woolf, all of whom he praises lavishly.<br />The Western Canon will never be beyond argument and debate, that is simply an impossibility.  People will always disagree with Bloom on one point or another.  In the final analysis, Bloom, this century's greatest reader, has treated an enormously important topic with tremendous expertise.  And, although an eccentric par excellence, Bloom has definitely compiled astute reading suggestions and critical opinions that certainly deserve anyone's careful consideration.	2000-10-24
2234208:US	50718004	R1H4FCOWEPWWPZ	1569471266	487895309	The Farming of Bones	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The Destructive Power of Language	The Farming of Bones is Edwidge Danticat's second novel.  It tells the story of a special group of people, the &quot;nameless and faceless ones,&quot; caught in the grip of political terror.  <br />Set in 1930s Hispaniola, this novel tells the tale of the dominance of the Dominican Republic over Haiti even though the two countries share a common ancestry:  both countries are populated by people descended from African slaves who were imprisoned there in order to work on the sugar plantations.  Despite the abolition of slavery and the coming of independence, the Dominican Republic has always been the economic leader of the island.  Haitians, in a effort to simply survive, would cross the border in order to work in the sugarcane fields of the Dominican Republic.<br />In 1937, Rafael Trujillo, the Dominican dictator friendly with the United States, responded to exhortations of racism, and Dominican soldiers routed Haitian workers from their quarters at the sugarcane plantations, either driving them back across the border into Haiti or massacring them together with their families.  Because the murder victims were the descendants of slaves, the massacres attracted scant attention in the United States; they are but a footnote in most history books.<br />Danticat wisely chooses not to dwell on political motivations; The Farming of Bones is a powerful book of raw emotion, revealing the power of language and how language, as a single factor, can bind one person to another, bind one to a country and how it can be used to destroy those bonds.  In The Farming of Bones, Danticat shows us the other side of &quot;the language of love,&quot; the side that can rend the flesh and destroy the spirit.<br />The heroine of this book is Amabelle Désir, a young servant to a prominent Dominican family.  Sensing the terror to come, Amabelle leaves the plantation and joins other Haitians who are attempting to escape, including her own lover, a cane cutter named Sebastien.  It is during Amabelle's flight over the mountain range dividing the two countries and the crossing of the Massacre River that the true meaning of political terror becomes clear.<br />Danticat writes in a unique style and her prose is tart and spare yet still formal and poetic.  The reader gains admission to the private world of Amabelle and the mystical undercurrent of her subconscious.  It is when Amabelle is speaking of Sebastien, however, that Danticat's prose rings with the full power of her lyricism:  &quot;Silence to him is like sleep, a close second to death.&quot;  Sebastien, himself, says, &quot;...we must talk to remind each other that we are not yet in the slumbering dark, which is an endless death.&quot;<br />Language, says Danticat, serves to identify a people, either through the use of specific words and phrases or through accents and idioms that give the listener a clue as to where the people live.  It is language that ultimately betrays the Haitians, more specifically a simple little word like parsley (perejill).  Although the Haitians and Dominicans have identical or nearly identical ancestories, the Haitians cannot pronounce this one simple word in the way the Dominicans do.  When tricked into saying, &quot;perejill,&quot; the Haitians unwittingly betray themselves and their homeland, only to die in a river made red with their blood.<br />The book's most chilling scene tells of a priest who is punished for helping the Haitians cross the border.  His Dominican captors manage to inflict a punishment of the most cruel and unbelievable kind:  using extreme physical torture, the Dominicans literally force their words into the brain of the priest.  The priest then parrots the the words of Trujillo:  &quot;...our country is the proudest birthright I can have...We as Dominicans, must have our separate traditions and our own way of living...If not...our children...will have their blood completely tainted unless we defend ourselves now, you understand?&quot;  The priest repeats the speech mindlessly, unable to stop.  He has been robbed of his own words and they have been replaced by the words of his torturers.<br />Danticat, through The Farming of Bones brings the little known slaughter of Haitian sugarcane cutters vividly to life.  She speaks for those who cannot speak and mourns for those who have heretofore gone unmourned.  As she writes, &quot;Famous men never truly die.  It is only the nameless and faceless who vanish like smoke into the early morning air.&quot;<br />The Farming of Bones is not light, pleasant reading.  It is an enormously powerful book filled with raw emotion and brutal honesty.  Danticat writes for those who seek to know, for those for whom truth is of supreme importance.  Danticat knows that while it is important to understand the motivations of those who kill and torture, it is even more important to discover and reveal the names of the &quot;nameless ones.&quot;  For only then will their stories be told and remembered.	2000-10-24
2235237:US	50718004	RTB2AOCDUI219	015650300X	542814625	Le Petit Prince (French Language Edition)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Magical	Le Petit Prince is a magical story of a pilot and the Prince he meets in the middle of a desert.  The pilot, an adult, listen attentively as the Prince, seemingly a child; tells of his trip to Earth and the people he meets along the way.<br />The Prince has journey to Earth from an asteroid floating in space.  He tells the pilot of people such as a dedicated lamplighter living on an asteroid where night and day last only moments.  He also tells the pilot about the asteroid and about how sad he feels as he watches the sunset and then, watches it yet again, until he finally feels better.<br />The pilot and the Prince then make a journey together in search of a well.  Finally, the Prince must leave Earth to return to his asteroid and his own special rose.  The story ends with a simple request to the reader.<br />Although Le Petit Prince may seem to be nothing more than a simple and beautiful fairy tale it is really so much more.  It is a story for children, to be sure, but it is also a story for people of all ages who have not quite grown up.<br />But who is not quite grown up?  If you have read Le Petit Prince you will realize that a grownup is a person, who, even if there is a pitcher of water sitting in front of him, will choose, instead to walk to a fountain and take a drink.  This book has many things to say that are very important for all of us to hear, however, most of us never find the time to listen to the lessons it teaches.  There is magic in this little book:  in the fox, in the rose, in the asp in the sunsets and most of all, in the Prince's parting gift to the pilot.<br />The journey of the Prince and the timeless themes this book presents are woven together into an immensely beautiful story.  This is a sweet but profound little book that might change the way you look at things and live your life, if only just a little.	2000-10-24
2235252:US	50718004	RNE87VJIQE337	0140286772	203058604	At Home with the Marquis de Sade: A Life	Books	5	62	65	N	N	Fascinating	Although few of us would choose the Marquis de Sade as a friend, there can be no doubt that he was one of history's most fascinating and colorful characters.  This book eschews sensationalism and gives us a fascinating glimpse of the private world of the man who prompted psychiatrist, Kraft-Ebbing, in 1882, to coin the term &quot;sadism.&quot;  Interestingly, sadism played but a small part in the life of de Sade; he was as much a masochist as anything else.<br />de Sade was born in Paris in 1740; his young mother was governess and lady-in-waiting to Prince Condé.  At the age of four, de Sade threw one too many temper tantrums and was sent to the south of France, to his doting grandmother in Avignon.  From Avignon, he was sent to various Jesuit schools where, at the time, flogging and sodomy were common practice.  This, the author convincingly argues, provided the needed catalyst for the emergence of de Sade's true personality.<br />de Sade married his only wife at an early age, the plain and ungraceful Pélagie Montreuil, daughter of the intelligent and ambitious Madame Montreuil.  The Montreuil's had money but no familial link to the aristocracy.  For a time Madame Montreuil excused the sexual forays of her new son-in-law, but eventually her forgiveness become too much for him to ask; she turned against de Sade with a bitterness, becoming not only his mother-in-law, but his lifelong nemesis as well.<br />His marriage to Pélagie, however was a surprisingly good one.  de Sade apparently awakened long-repressed passions in the young girl that remained until their separation many years later when she rejected him with much fervor.<br />Eschewing Louis XV's court in Paris and in Versailles, de Sade preferred living on his estates in Provence, most particularly in the medieval hill village of Lacoste.  In Lacoste, the marquis took full advantage of his feudal rights and looked upon the villagers as nothing more than serfs.  While Madame Montreuil raised his three children in Paris, de Sade and Pélogie lived the high life in the chateau at Lacoste.  de Sade, himself, made frequent trips to the Provençal capital of Marseilles where he maintained rented houses for prostitutes.  His prostitutes, however, didn't especially care for the idea (or the actuality) of being whipped.  They also found de Sade's sodomy and coprophilia perversions less than enticing.  Depositions were soon filed and the frustrated pre-Republic parliament system, for whom the king was beyond reach, went after de Sade with fervor.  <br />As a result of his depravity, de Sade found himself in and out of prison for the rest of his life.  Perhaps it was megalomania, perhaps it was simply uncontrollable depravity, but each time de Sade was released from prison, he immediately set off and got into trouble once again.  In Marseilles, he fed Spanish fly covered with anise to two prostitutes and they became so ill they accused the marquis of attempted poisoning.  Back he went to prison.  <br />Upon being released, he found, to his great delight, that Pélogie had hired an entire retune of beautiful young girls to live in the chateau at Lacoste and do the marquis' bidding.  There followed six weeks of debauchery of the highest (or lowest) order, which only ended when the parents of the girls filed charges.  This particular incident netted de Sade a thirteen-year prison term.  Released after the fall of the Bastille, de Sade went on to hold a minor position in the National Assembly until Robespierre cast him unceremoniously into prison once again.  Prison, however, wasn't all bad for de Sade, for it was there that he composed Justine and Juliette and many other now famous works.  After the fall of Robespierre, de Sade was once again free, only to find himself committed (by Madame Montreuil) to the mental asylum at Charendon where he spent the remainder of his days, often conducting lavish theatrical productions that involved the other inmates.<br />This book is aptly named, for it brings de Sade to life through everyday details, many of them based on his letters to Pélogie.  Although we know the marquis grew tremendously fat while incarcerated, most of us never knew why.  When we read, in this book, his letters to Pélogie demanding goodies such as truffles, chocolates, jams, cakes &quot;glazed on both sides&quot; and other sweet treats, we not only understand de Sade's corpulence, we also feel a little sympathy for Pélogie, for although she tried to fulfill the marquis' demands, it wasn't an easy job; de Sade had bankrupted them, forcing Pélogie to live out her life in a convent.<br />Although this book is set against a rich historical background (the fall of Napoleon, the rise and fall of Robespierre), it is a detailed, &quot;everyday&quot; history that is portrayed as opposed to history on an epic scale.  At Home With the Marquis de Sade is a well-researched, well-written and fascinating look at the everyday minutiae of a man who, although his name has become almost a household word, has heretofore been far too little understood.	2000-10-24
2235472:US	50718004	RQKHHVBYG4RS2	0899662846	892244340	A Shropshire Lad	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Unsurpassed Melancholy and Pessimism	A.E. Housman wrote beautiful poems filled with melancholy and pessimism.  Most of his poems were composed in the 1890s when Housman was, admittedly, under tremendous psychological stress.  This stress undoubtedly contributed greatly to the sad and mournful tone of his poetry.  &quot;In the world of Housman's poetry, youth fades to dust, lovers are unfaithful, and death is the tranquil end of everything.&quot;<br />Housman, himself, led a life of hardship.  His mother died when he was twelve and his father began a losing battle with alcohol and a long slide into poverty.  When Housman went to college, he developed a passionate attachment to another student named Moses Jackson.  Jackson did not return Housman's love, but the two did develop a deep and abiding friendship.  Housman, however, wanted more, and the loss of Jackson plunged him into a suicidal depression that was to last for the rest of his life.<br />In all of Housman's poems certain themes predominate, the most common being time and the inevitability of death.  Housman sees time and aging as horrible processes and views each day, not as one day of life to be lived, but as one step closer to the inevitable end of life.  Cleanth Brooks stated, &quot;Time is, with Housman, always the enemy.&quot;  Unable even to see the joy and beauty inherent in life, Housman concentrates instead on the peace and serenity death will bring. Housman often uses symbolism to express images of death and decay and the reader must sometimes search the poem in order to make the connection.<br />Housman's poetry also tells us that he viewed the world as hostile and cruel, a world that had been abandoned by its maker.  His lyrics scrutinize with cool, detached irony the impersonal universe, the vicious world into which man was placed to endure existence and fend for himself.<br />The directness and simplicity of much of Housman's poetry have been viewed by many critic's as faults; for this reason he has often been described as &quot;adolescent&quot; and has been relegated to the status of a minor poet.  This criticism is most unfair as Housman's poetry is unsurpassed in its sadness and melancholy and the apparent ease with which it is written.<br />The range of meter that Housman uses varies from four to sixteen syllables in length.  John MacDonald claims &quot;What is remarkable about Housman's poetry is the amount and the subtlety variation within a single stanza, and the almost uncanny felicity with which the stresses of the metrical pattern coincide with the normal accents of the sentence.&quot;  Housman uses monosyllabic and simple words in his poetry, but the words that he chooses to use fit together rhythmically and express the idea with a clear image.<br />To express his vivid images, Housman sparingly uses epithets that are both original and creative, such as &quot;light-leaved spring,&quot; and the &quot;bluebells of the listless plain.&quot;  These well-chosen epithets cause Housman's poetry to be decorative and filled with images of great beauty.<br />A Shropshire Lad, published in 1896 at Housman's own expense, is his best-known work.  Although critics paid it scant attention, the public raved about its bittersweet poems which were, according to Housman, &quot;more physical than intellectual.&quot;  The poems in this collection are generally brisk, simple, written in a precise language and regular rhythm.  Many of them relate directly or indirectly to Housman's love for Moses Jackson.  Many of these poems contain images of the landscape, the changing of the seasons, the blossoming of trees and flowers, the fading of youth and, of course, death.  B.J. Leggett says these &quot;poems show an ongoing structure which carries the persona from innocence to knowledge or from expectation to disillusionment.&quot;<br />In the poem entitled The Loveliest of Trees, the speaker discovers human mortality and fading youth.  Loveliest of trees, the cherry now/Is hung with bloom along the bough,/Andstands about the woodland ride/Wearing white for Eastertide./Now, of my threescore years and ten,/Twenty will not come again,/And take from seventy springs a score,/It only leaves me fifty more./And since to look at things in bloom/fifty springs are little room,/About the woodlands I will go/To see the cherry hung with snow.<br />The speaker of this lovely poem, at first so optimistic and hopeful, comes to grasp the brevity of his life, and this leads him from innocence to knowledge.  His vision of a springtime world of rebirth is altered by his sudden sense of his own transience, so that he can ultimately only see the cherry as &quot;hung with snow,&quot; an obvious suggestion of death.<br />Other themes inherent in Housman's poetry include the loss of youthful dreams, the isolation of adolescence and the sorrows of love.  Many of Housman's poems begin in a blithe manner and end with a shift in mood and tone to the negative and the dismal.<br />Sadly, A.E. Housman has never been a fashionable poet.  He does, however, continue to maintain an audience and his reputation remains steady.  The melancholy and pessimism inherent in all of his poems is unsurpassed in its beauty and serenity and Housman is a poet who certainly deserves to be both read and studied far more widely.  A.E. Housman was a tragic figure, but he was one whose life and art surpassed the mundane and came to inhabit the realm of the extraordinary.	2000-10-24
2237159:US	50718004	R3MR1GKYCARNMZ	0374119570	973254123	Casanova: The Man Who Really Loved Women	Books	4	25	25	N	N	Interesting and Poetic but not Compelling	In light of today's widespread sexual promiscuity, Giacomo Casanova's 132 reported seductions are less than shocking.  The legend of this infamous Italian lover, however, rages on, fueled by the replication of his 12-volume memoir which runs more than 4000 pages in length.<br />Giacomo Casanova was more than a lover; he was an author, an actor, a priest, a translator.  In her book, Casanova:  The Man Who Really Loved Women, Lydia Flem, a Belgian psychoanalyst and critic, outlines Casanova's life in eighteenth-century Venice, not to paint yet another lurid portrait of one of the world's most famous lovers, but to prove that he was also one of the world's most misunderstood.<br />When Casanova was only a year old, his actress mother left him in the care of his grandmother while she performed on the London stage.  When he was eight, his father died.  Alone and abandoned, Flem sees Casanova's nomadic, pleasure-seeking life as a search for the parental comfort he was denied.  She further characterizes him as a man in search of an identity.  Admitting he was the son of actors never really furthered Casanova's desires; he invented a noble lineage for himself and christened himself the Chevalier de Seingalt.<br />True to our expectations, Casanova learned the art of seduction at a very early age.  He was eleven and training for the priesthood in a seminary when Bettina, the sister of a priest, seduced her obliging victim.  Deciding the priesthood was not his true vocation, Casanova returned to his native Venice and fell into bed with two sisters at the same time, an act that was to set the stage for his later bizarre-but-comical affairs.  The love of his life, we learn, was a woman named Henriette, a cross-dresser who enjoyed passing herself off as a castrato.  And, there was the charming girl Casanova made love to and nearly married, the daughter of one of his girlfriends, who just happened to be Casanova's own daughter as well.  But, Flem tells us, despite his steamy adventurousness, Casanova retained an air of modesty.  His own memoirs are draped in staid and proper eighteenth-century euphemisms, tinged with an ecclesiastical touch:  he tells us how he &quot;conquered the ebony fleece,&quot; &quot;got close to the altar frieze,&quot; and &quot;performed the gentle sacrifice.&quot;<br />Flem does not view Casanova as a traditional womanizer par excellence; she sees him, instead as a sentimental, the epitome of gentlemanliness, a lover of life whose greatest desire was to share his happiness (as well as his intellectual pursuits) with women.  That's believable enough, but Flem, however, seems to take her analysis a bit too far.  &quot;There is not a trace of misogyny in Casanova,&quot; she writes.  &quot;Women are his masters.  The feminine so fascinates him that he would like to merge with it.&quot;  This is a little difficult to swallow since Casanova, himself, called the independence of women a &quot;source of great evil,&quot; and said he'd rather die than give up his manhood.<br />Casanova lived a long life and eventually even this master seducer had to deal with the specter of old age.  He did so most admirably, spending the final years of his life as a librarian in a Bohemian castle and devoting thirteen hours per day to the creation of his memoirs.  Surprisingly, it is through his writing, along with his thinking, reflecting and remembering, that brought Casanova his greatest joy.  Although his contemporaries urged him to publish his memoirs before his death, Casanova steadfastly refused to do so.  He did, though, believe that it would be through his words that he would secure lasting happiness as well as his own place in history.<br />Casanova:  The Man Who Really Loved Women is an interesting and poetic, if not completely compelling look at one of history's more flamboyant and lovable figures.  Flem, though, seems to have fallen into the trap of over-analysis; she seems to be reaching for meanings that just weren't there.Casanova's words regarding women apeak for themselves:  &quot;One-third...,&quot; he writes, &quot;made me laugh, one-third gave me an erection, one-third gave me food for thought.&quot;  It is too bad this extraordinary man never found the one woman who could give him all three.	2000-10-22
2237888:US	50718004	R2CTQPWLYTZMG0	0679781277	682628461	Martin Dressler: The Tale of an American Dreamer	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The Fine Line Between Dreaming and Madness	In Martin Dressler, Pulitzer Prize winner Steven Millhauser has created a book that deftly explores the fine line between dreaming and madness.  This is the story of a cigar maker's son who grows to realize his dream:  that of becoming a master builder of ever more extravagant hotels in late nineteenth-century Manhattan.  In its combination of the real and the fabulous, Martin Dressler explores the dark side inherent in the entrepreneurial spirit of America.<br />Reminiscent of E.L. Doctorow's Ragtime, Martin Dressler is written in an old-fashioned narration, and, in keeping with the era in which the story is set, it is told to us by a storyteller rather than being dramatized in scenes and dialogue.  Although this may sound (and be) boring for some readers, it is the perfect choice for Martin Dressler and gives the book an air of nostalgia and mystery, much like an old-and-faded photograph from some halcyon bygone day.<br />Martin Dressler, himself, is an Hortatio Alger-like figure, a virtuous young man who becomes obsessed with art and architecture.  In telling the story of Martin Dressler, Millhauser paints a vivid portrait, unique in American life:  that moment in time when dreamers and  visionaries were allowed to blossom and reshape a city's skyline with buildings that would take the public's breath away.<br />It is when Martin embarks on his most ambitious project, the building of a hotel called the Grand Cosmos, that this richly evocative book becomes its most intriguing and remarkable.  The Grand Cosmos is no ordinary hotel; it is a world unto itself, embodying all the joy and the tragedy that made up turn-of-the-century New York City.  Even as Martin realizes his dreams, he loses them as well, something he seems to know, for &quot;even as his new building rose story by story it was already vanishing, the trajectory of the wrecker's ball had been set in motion as the blade of the first bulldozer bit into the earth.&quot;<br />This is a quiet, meditative bookbut one that is densely descriptive and filled to the brim with rich imagery.  Millhauser's prose is, as always, vivid and polished to sheer perfection and is perfectly in keeping with the tone of his story.<br />This is a beautiful book, certainly worthy of the Pulitzer Prize and more.  In it, Millhauser paints a portrait of an ambitious man who simply had the misfortune to &quot;dream the wrong dream,&quot; and, on a larger scale he gives us a gorgeous metaphor for the creative spirit that resides inside the soul of every human being.	2000-10-21
2238157:US	50718004	R3KFSRXDZPAEE	0767902025	856306137	Tomcat in Love	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The Man We Love to Hate	Tim O'Brien is, without a doubt, America's premier chronicler of the Vietnam War.  Going After Cacciato and The Things They Carried have become classics of that era and even In The Lake of the Woods deals largely with repercussions of the war's aftermath.  Tomcat in Love, however, bears no resemblance to any of O'Brien's previous works and it is, amazingly, far more inventive, original and creative.<br />Tomcat in Love is the darkly comic story of Minnesota resident, Thomas Chippering, a pompous, middle-aged Professor of Linguistics who has deluded himself into thinking he's irresistible to women...all of them.  As Chippering, himself, says, &quot;My celebrated biweekly seminars...are almost always booked to the limit with attentive, worshipful, ardent young lollipops eager to widen their horizons.&quot;  Not since Nabokov created Humbert Humbert, has there been a more thoroughly unlikable and self-deceiving central character or one whom we so much love to hate.<br />Chippering is definitely a man in love with words.  &quot;Words,&quot; he says, &quot;have genuine substance, mass and weight and specific gravity.&quot;  In fact, it is words and his knowledge of them, that places Chippering far above the ordinary man and woman.  For, although Chippering flirts outrageously with every woman he meets, they all rebuff him, a problem Chippering falsely attributes to their far inferior linguistic skills.  It's not that he's unattractive, he thinks, women have simply failed to appreciate him.  The sad truth is, Chippering has been betrayed by the very words he loves so much.  He does possess the skill to manipulate words, but at the cost of being able to feel even one honest emotion, about himself or others.<br />Betrayed by words and betrayed by his wife of twenty-plus years, Lorna Sue (she left him for a Tampa real estate tycoon), Thomas Chippering decides to seek revenge.  Exactly what this revenge entails encompasses Lorna Sue's diabolical brother, Herbie, who, as a child, had attempted to crucify Lorna Sue...literally.  Although he only managed to pound one nail through her hand, Chippering still believes Lorna Sue to be scarred for life, emotionally as well as physically, and he bitterly blames Herbie for the loss of his wife.<br />Chippering finally finds an ally in Mrs. Robert Kooshof (he cannot call her by her first name), the wife of an imprisoned veterinarian.  Together they leave for Tampa where Chippering is hateful but hilarious as he concocts first one scheme then another in an effort to destroy Lorna Sue's marriage.  Once again, though, Chippering falsely attributes his own sense of betrayal to a loss of linguistic skills rather than to his wife's abandonment.  &quot;The betrayal of love,&quot; he says, &quot;...seems also to entail a fundamental betrayal of language and logic and human meaning.&quot;  Even awash in a sea of betrayal, Chippering retains his pomposity.<br />Does Chippering ever exact revenge?  Does he ever get his well-deserved comeuppance?  Our desire to know is great enough to keep us reading to the book's totally twisted and demented end.<br />Tim O'Brien certainly took a risk with Tomcat in Love, but he also proved he could write satire of the highest order.  The fact that he makes this hyperbolic story and its cast of unlikely characters as believable and true-to-life as his previous books is testimony to his talent as a writer.  Even greater is O'Brien's ability to make us care about this self-deluding Lothario par excellence.  For underneath the hilarity, the manipulation and the black comedy, O'Brien has wisely planted connections that reverberate in all of us:  Words have power, but words lose their meaning when devoid of the emotion that makes us human.  In the final analysis, Thomas Chippering is as tragic a man as anyone could imagine.	2000-10-21
2238232:US	50718004	R18KEFKGM48I7E	067972575X	562648892	The Tin Drum	Books	5	36	42	N	N	A Lone Voice Crying in the Wilderness	Echoing the rise and fall of the Third Reich through the eyes of the Peter Pan like Oskar Matzerath, G&uuml;nter Grass' highly acclaimed novel, The Tin Drum paints a surreal and disturbing portrait of people in a time of great uncertainty.  The story begins with Oskar's grandmother, Anna Koljaiczek, a woman who conceives Oskar's mother, Agnes, in a potato field encounter that can only be described as &quot;bizarre.&quot;  Agnes, herself, grows into a woman out-of-the-ordinary and in time, forms the hypotenuse of a strange love triangle that encompasses two men who love her equally:  her husband, Alfred Matzerath and Jan Bronski, the biological father of young Oskar.  Oskar, himself, is, from the very beginning, an extraordinary child.  Even as a fetus, he refuses to be born until Agnes entices him out of her womb with the promise of a tin drum on his third birthday.<br />Oskar is born and Agnes keeps her promise.  On the day he receives his red and white lacquered tin drum, Oskar makes a promise that rules his life for the next eighteen years:  Observing the hypocritical nature of his German-Polish family, Oskar decides to stop growing and forever remain three years old.  In an effort to accomplish this, he throws himself down the cellar stairs, an act that comes to haunt Alfred (he had left the door open).  Oskar does manage to freeze himself in time and his tin drum becomes the symbol of his extreme youth as well as his weapon against adult intervention.  It is when Alfred tries to take the drum away that Oskar discovers another unique talent:  he can scream at such a high register that glass around the world shatters.  At three years old, Oskar has learned the art of manipulation and control.<br />At the time Oskar makes his decision not to grow, the Nazis are recognizing the politically strategic importance of the city of Danzig.  Technically a Polish city since the end of World War I, the Germans begin to clamor for its return.  Discord and disharmony erupt within Oskar's family.  Alfred, a German, gravitates toward the SA while the Polish Jan, Agnes and Anna remain fiercely loyal to their Slavic homeland.  Trouble is obviously brewing, yet the only &quot;ordinary&quot; resident of Danzig who seems to notice is Oskar.  It is he who disrupts a Fascist rally with the overwhelming sound of his drum--an aural punishment able to drive anyone to the edge of insanity.<br />The Tin Drum is an impressive, but complicated and complex book, as is the character of Oskar.  Although Oskar and his tin drum are meant to represent childhood innocence, at times he can seem perverse, manipulative and downright malevolent.  The problem is, Oskar beats his drum to literally anything and everything that upsets him, be it his mother's infidelity or the German invasion.  Although we ultimately come to love him, there are times when we simply want to slap him in the face as well.  Nevertheless, it is clear from the outset that the small Oskar Matzerath is the lone voice crying in the wilderness.<br />Grass acknowledges and draws well from his Continental European intellectual history and influence, showing us the connections between Oskar and Dostoyevsky's Prince Mishkin, France's Napoleon, Goethe's Faust, Dickens' Tiny Tim and Shakespeare's Hamlet.  Embracing the complexities of modern culture, Grass forms dichotomies, posing theses and antitheses.  (Goethe and Rasputin, Man and Angel, Realism and Romanticism, Reason and Passion.)  Wisely, he does not always find synthesis.<br />The narrative structure of The Tin Drum, told as it is &quot;through the mouths of babes,&quot; allows Grass to distort an already-distorted reality, thereby seeing it &quot;face-to-face.&quot;  Through Oskar, metonym for a maturing Germany, and through his &quot;childish ways,&quot; we see his innocence or ignorance not so much as a tool for evaluation, but rather as a looking glass through which we clearly view our century and western world.  Although the extensive symbolism can be a little obscure at times, and Grass' prose is both surrealistic and baroque, The Tin Drum is definitely one of the masterpieces of the twentieth century and, as a condemnation of apathy it remains unsurpassed.sm can be a little obscure at times, and Grass' prose is both surrealistic and baroque, The Tin Drum is definitely one of the masterpieces of the twentieth century and, as a condemnation of apathy it remains unsurpassed.	2000-10-21
2238261:US	50718004	R2X99X01XWX981	038548741X	933692812	Morvern Callar	Books	5	26	27	N	N	A Brilliantly Unique Heroine	Of all the &quot;new&quot; Scottish novelists, Alan Warner is absolutely the very best.  This, his first novel, opens with the title heroine, Morvern Callar finding her boyfriend dead on the kitchen floor after slitting his own throat.<br />Morvern is someone no one would want to be, a member of the Scottish &quot;working class,&quot; a woman for whom life holds no promise other than sex, music and liquor, and, in time, even those will fade.  So, in a life devoid of hope, Morvern does what might seem illogical to someone not caught in her circumstances:  she buries her boyfriend's body, cleans out his bank account and even submits his novel to a London publisher under her own name.  All this before quitting her own dead-end job and heading down to the Spanish Mediterranean for more sex, music and liquor.  That's all.  There is no &quot;hopefully more,&quot; in Morvern Callar's world.<br />Although Morvern may appear callous and amoral she is anything but.  Warner, who captures the &quot;voice&quot; of his protagonists so perfectly (see These Demented Lands and The Sopranos) has captured the very essence of Morvern Callar.  There is an inescapable sorrow in Morvern that all of her coolness and hipness cannot hide.  This is a real person, one who is gentle and caring with her girlfriend's grandmother and her own foster father.  Morvern sees herself reflected in the wrung-out lives of her elders.  Her temporary escape to the warmer, more sunny climes of the Mediterranean are a desperate attempt to grab what little escape she can, and, because of this very desperation, these scenes take on a hellish, almost surreal quality.  We know, as does Morvern, that whatever release she is feeling at the moment will only magnify the emptiness of her life in the long run.  A clue to Morvern's personality is her favorite video:  Antonioni's &quot;The Passenger,&quot; a tale about a man who tries to make a new life by switching identities with a dead man.<br />A master writer, and amaster at characterization, Warner never resorts to melodrama in portraying the bleakness of Morvern's life or in her reaction to it.  He simply tells it like it is...exactly.  And that is part of what makes this novel so perfect.  Although Morvern's life is filled with hopelessness and despair, she, herself, is a woman filled with feeling, a true heroine in the finest sense of the word.  Even though Morvern tries desperately to deaden the feelings that are killing her, she fails to do so.<br />Obviously, Morvern Callar is a character-driven novel and Morvern, herself, is fascinating enough to carry us along.  There really is very little plot in the book to speak of, although Warner does hide some obtuse symbolism here and there.  If Morvern, herself, weren't enough to intrigue even the most jaded reader, Warner's writing is so good that it alone makes this book worth reading even if, by some strange chance, you don't like Morvern.<br />Ultimately depressing and without hope, Morvern Callar will no doubt sadly appeal only to a very limited, and very literary, audience, those who read and love Irvine Welsh, for instance.  This is too bad, since Warner is a brilliant and polished writer and one whose work deserves a much more widespread readership.	2000-10-21
2238514:US	50718004	R3GA25L57STUTD	0374164908	504703944	Going Native	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Brilliant Postmodern Satire	Stephen's Wright's third novel, Going Native, is written as a postmodern modular satire.  Robert Coover very correctly described Going Native as &quot;a sensational prime time novel...a pornographic twilight zone of beebee-eyed serial killers, drug-stunned pants-dropping road-warriors and 'marauding armies of mental vampires,' a nightmarish country of unparalleled savagery, where there is no longer any membrane between screen and life and the monster image feed is inexhaustible.&quot;<br />Going Native is composed of a seemingly unconnected series of vignettes of life along the road whose sole connecting factor lies in the presence of Wylie, a middle-class husband and father, and resident of Wakefield Estates.  After stealing a green Fold Galaxie, Wylie transforms himself from everyday businessman into mass murderer.  His chance encounters with a sequence of characters includes a suburban couple into drugs and kinky sex, a murderous hitchhiker, the runaway daughter of a desert motel owner, a voyeuristic porno moviemaker, a woman who sells jewelry and serves as a witness in Las Vegas wedding chapels and a California film industry couple who have just returned from a trek through the jungles of Borneo.<br />The only thing serving to connect these disparate narrative modules is Wylie, who, while on the road, operates under the name of Tom Hanna.  Fate, chance or pure bad luck brings the life of each of the above characters (whose background has been filled in for the reader) into contact with the bizarre figure of Wylie.  He thus becomes the one connective nomadic signifier that serves to link these disjointed stories as well as a metaphor for a fragmented and disjointed American reality.<br />The modular format of Going Native enables Wright to satirize various aspects of modern American life while bringing together, within a single narrative the contradictions of postmodern identity.  Although the characters Wylie encounters randomly along the road may at first appear mutable, fragmented and even freakish, we come to realize in them a tiresome, almost cliched sameness and uniformity.<br />Going Native is a compelling indictment of the American postmodern culture.  Wylie, himself, brings chaos, disillusion and death to all whom he encounters.  In doing so, he comes to represent a form of estrangement that Wright so thoroughly critiques.  He burrows into our images, forcing each of his victims to confront their status as temporal constructs and acknowledge their own mortality.<br />The point Wright seem to want to make is that we can't escape our own historicity, our own &quot;hauntology,&quot; our own mortality; they are embedded in the makeup of our very lives.  That Wright is able to portray this complex contradiction in disparate narratives disrupted and connected only by the figure of Wylie is testament to Wright's tremendous satiric talent.  With Going Native, Stephen Wright joins that group of postmodern satirists (Pynchon, Gaddis, Acker, Elkin, Coover) who choose to diagnose a highly symptomatic postmodern culture and in so doing uncover the sheer radicality and absurdity of its connections.	2000-10-21
2240010:US	50718004	RRUX31VUAT4UJ	0802135811	828895855	The Invention of Love	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Brilliant and Luminous, Stoppard at his Best	The Invention of Love, in my opinion, Tom Stoppard's best play, opens with A.E. Housman being ferried across the River Styx by Charon, relieved to be dead at last.  Or is he?  Perhaps he is only dreaming from his bed in a rest home.  One of the things that makes The Invention of Love so outstanding is Stoppard's wonderful mix of fantasy and reality.  He combines the two so well, in fact, that we're never quite sure which is which.  There are luminous scenes of young men rowing down the Thames to Hades, a marvelous Thameside encounter between the youthful Housman and his older self and an almost transcendent conclusion showing Housman stepping off-shore onto a watery-looking stage.<br />The Invention of Love successfully combines elements from Stoppard's previous plays:  the wit and cleverness of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead with the emotional richness and intensity of The Real Thing to the purity of Arcadia.  This is, however, a slower, more meditative and contemplative Stoppard.  Even the flamboyant Oscar Wilde is presented in a toned-downed, rather Housmanesque style.<br />The script, itself, although erudite and intellectual, is so opulently rich in imagery and language (yes, there is a lot of Latin) that we, as an audience, are forced to be attentive.  Stoppard rewards us handsomely, though, as we become increasingly aware that certain things (rivers, Hades, dogs, love, inventions, inversions, three men in a boat) circle and then loop back and circle again and again.<br />Those who think Housman's scholarliness might seem dull couldn't be more wrong.  It is, instead, the very essence of this marvelous play.  Stoppard uses lost Greek plays and corrupted Latin texts like the master he is.  And he delivers a poignant message:  Even great art contains within itself the seed of its own mortality.  Although the artist (in this case, Housman) strives to produce a coherent and hopefully, immortal, body of work, time, itself, eventually leeches almost everythingaway until only fragments remain.  This is a powerful message, to be sure, but in The Invention of Love, it is one that is both comforting and melancholy and sadly, we come to realize, all too true.	2000-10-19
2240985:US	50718004	RX1RDVDY9XQ6H	060960516X	195842000	Enchanted Night: A Novella	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Gossamer Delicacy and Heady Sensuality	Pulitzer Prize winner Steven Millhauser successfully marries the marvelous to the mundane in his shimmering novella, Enchanted Night.  Enchanted Night is the thought chronicle of dozens of insomniacs in a Connecticut seaside suburb:  three teenage boys who are attempting to break into a library; a music-mesmerized army of children; a pair of teenaged lovers on the brink of intimacy; an ominous &quot;man with shiny black hair,&quot; and a strange band of girls who break into houses only to steal meaningless knick knacks and who leave behind notes proclaiming, WE ARE YOUR DAUGHTERS.  These are the human insomniacs.  This is Millhauser, so, of course, there are others.<br />There are the dolls, &quot;not dolls in the freshness of their youth...but old, abandoned, dolls, no longer believed in,&quot; and there is a chic department store mannequin who &quot;dreams of release, of the dropping of her guard, of the voluptuous fall into motion.&quot;<br />These &quot;moon-mad, summer-looney&quot; characters have intentions that range from friendly to sinister to bizarre.  Among the bizarre are Haverstraw, a thirty-nine year old man still living with his mother who spends his time working on &quot;an immense project, an experiment in memory,&quot; and Mrs. Kasco, the sixty-one year old woman who regrets not having seduced Haverstraw when he (and she) were younger.  Perhaps it is not too late; these two strange-but-wonderful characters meet each night for conversation and wrangling over matters as far-out as how &quot;memory keeps turning into conversation.&quot;<br />Overall, Millhauser is himself in this book:  masterful, erudite, inventive, original, poetic, restrained.  There are, however, a few moments when we have to stop, shake our heads and wonder, &quot;What happened?&quot;  The most glaring instance encompasses the seven words that make up &quot;Song of the One-Eyed Cuddly Bear.&quot;<br />Millhauser's prose is...Millhauser:  poetic, lyrical, sensual, heady and delicate all at the same time.  The entire novella is shot through with the enchantment of a full moon on a warm August night, perfectly alternating gossamer delicacy, heady sensuality and beguiling magic.<br />For the most part, Enchanted Night works its charm, and, like its characters, we, too, come to dread the sun and instead long for &quot;some unknown place--deeper than dreams, more dangerous than desire.&quot;	2000-10-19
2243030:US	50718004	ROM34NFEQO4P2	0679722769	705442339	Ulysses	Books	5	18	20	N	N	A Lasting Work of Art	Ulysses is, without a doubt, the greatest novel of the twentieth century.  Although many great books have been written before and after its publication, nothing has equaled it, or even come close.  It is, without a doubt, a true and lasting work of art.<br />Ulysses is an immensely detailed, perfectly-crafted, often sordid account of the wanderings of certain Dubliners around their city on 16 June 1904, principally, Leopold Bloom, outwardly a Hungarian Jewish proprietor of a small business, but inwardly, a sensuous rags and tatters Hamlet, a man who has lost both his religion and his name; his adulterous wife, Molly; and Stephen Dadelus, a clever but pretentious young teacher, Joyce's alter ego.  Joyce labored for years on Ulysses, amassing and checking facts and then, with a genius that has never been matched, drawing them all into various symbolic patterns that mirror the wanderings and ordeals of Homer's Odysseus, Joyce's own hero.<br />In one episode, narrated by an anonymous Dubliner, Bloom enters a pub and politely declines a drink offered to him by a Nationalist, accepting a cigar instead.  Despite numerous attempts to change the subject, the Nationalist rages on and on, grumbling about foreigners and strangers.  Bloom eventually gets fed up; he defends himself and his race, jabbing his cigar for emphasis as he speaks.  Eventually, though, Bloom is accused of true treachery against the Irish race--not standing everyone a drink when he is thought to have successfully backed an outsider in the Gold Cup horse race.  The Nationalist explodes and throws a biscuit tin at Bloom as he quickly retreats.<br />In Ulysses, this scene is funny, but it is also so much more.  The Nationalist is the one-eyed giant Cyclops from whom Ulysses escaped by jabbing his eye with a burning stake.  The tunnel vision and terrorism that are but a small part of the Irish race are fought by Ulysses/Bloom as he jabs his cigar at his tormentor.  &quot;But it's no use,&quot; Bloom says.  &quot;Force, hatred, history, all that.  That's not life for men and women, insult and hatred.  And everybody knows that it's the very opposite of that that is really life...Love.&quot;<br />There are ironic devices used in Ulysses other than the Homeric one, including the one used so strikingly by Joyce in A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man (in which we were introduced to the character of Stephen Dadelus), matching the style of the narrative to the person occupying the foreground.  As a Modernist, Joyce wanted this stylistic device to be &quot;visible&quot; rather than &quot;invisible;&quot; he wanted readers to develop an awareness of his technique, to identify, not only with the story but with the way in which he was telling it.<br />Joyce had a message to deliver in Ulysses:  he sought to tell the world of the people he had encountered; to describe their conduct and speech, to analyze their motive, to relate the effects the sordid, turbulent, disorderly &quot;world,&quot; replete with Irish whiskey and Irish ecclesiasticism, had upon him, an emotional and egocentric genius whose chief pleasure was self-analysis and whose chief preoccupation was in keeping a notebook filled with every incident he'd ever encountered and every speech heard, all recorded with a Boswellian fidelity.<br />Although Ulysses is not impossible to understand, the book does test anyone's endurance as it is filled with fragments of songs, bits of other languages, lists, obscure references and Joyce's stream-of-consciousness style.  Idiosyncrasies abound; from the early Dubliners, Joyce abjured &quot;perverted commas&quot; in favor of French-style punctuation.<br />Reading A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man is one way to prepare for Ulysses.  In that book we are introduced to Stephen Dadelus and we also have a chance to get used to Joyce's capacity to externalize his consciousness, to put down in words those things many of us would be ashamed to admit to thinking, even to ourselves.<br/>Unlike Odysseus, Joyce never returned home.  He wandered around Europe, his eyesight failing, with his fiercely-loyal wife, Nora, at his side.  It is Nora Joyce celebrates in the tremendous punctuationless passage that ends Ulysses.<br />Although Stephen Dadelus, in his Parisian tranquility, would have pretended indifference to the praise heaped upon Ulysses, Joyce knew that he had created something special and lasting.  &quot;O rocks,&quot; Molly says to Bloom, &quot;tell us in plain words.&quot;  That is something Joyce never failed to do.	2000-10-17
2243258:US	50718004	RX6F3IY0GEDYJ	0312871937	468425158	The Marriage of Sticks	Books	4	9	13	N	N	Highly Entertaining	Vienna resident, Jonathan Carroll is well-known for writing about extremely ordinary people who become involved in extraordinary circumstances, thereby finding their lives transformed.  These quirky and original characters often encounter fantastic dreams and nightmares, surrealistic visions and worlds within worlds, often with no warning at all.  Anyone who reads a Jonathan Carroll book must be willing to remain open to a myriad of possibilities in life, possibilities than many of us simply have never held true.<br />In The Marriage of Sticks, Miranda Romanac considers herself most fortunate to be working in a business she loves and at which she excels; she is a successful rare book dealer based in mid-town Manhattan.  When Miranda attends her fifteenth high school reunion with her good friend, Zoe, she has more in mind than just a fun night out.  Hoping to reconnect with her high school sweetheart, Miranda receives shocking news instead.  Although she is yet unaware of its impact, this is news that will prove to be the catalyst of the slow-but-sure unraveling of the existence Miranda has so carefully carved out for herself.<br />Miranda later meets the charming and witty but married Hugh Oakley at a dinner party.  And art expert, Miranda innocently consults him regarding a business matter.  The inevitable happens and the two are so highly attracted to each other they begin a love affair.  This love affair escalates to the point that Hugh finally leaves his wife and children to be with Miranda.  A little implausible, maybe, but certainly not out of the realm of possibility.  It is Hugh who tells Miranda about the marriage of sticks.  Couples write significant events, together with the date of their happening, on whatever stick in available to them at the moment.  Every so often these sticks are then culled until the couple is left with only the most important and significant ones.  At the end of one's life, when not much time is left, the sticks are burned, rendering the many into one.<br />When Miranda and Hugh move into the home of Frances Hatch, an eccentric old woman who was one of Miranda's clients, the bizarre events step up their pace.  (Crane's View, the home's locale, a small town on the Hudson River, is also the setting for Carroll's previous novel, Kissing the Beehive.)  Here, both Miranda and Hugh experience visions of striking intensity.  Miranda, in particular, is deeply affected as she experiences an ever-growing stream of visions and ghosts.  All are, somehow, related to her directly and all help to lead her to the most important decision of her life.<br />Carroll is a master at pacing and his story unfolds exactly as it should.  There is no flab in this novel; every word counts, yet Carroll's presentation is effortless in its effect.  Every detail is dead-on and the suspense threads its ways subtly through the lives of each character uniting all into one gossamer whole.  The everyday and the mundane are transformed, the incongruous becomes the only reality.<br />Carroll doesn't write works of undying artistry.  But that's okay, not everyone wants to read that.  What he does do is create novels that are highly entertaining yet extremely well-written.  Novels that pull the reader in and allow him to escape for awhile into a completely different world.  His unique talent lies in telling a darn good story and it is a talent he utilizes extremely well.	2000-10-17
2244273:US	50718004	RU3YWLVV2H8C4	0156012014	220950434	The Sopranos: A Novel	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Bittersweet	Scotland's Alan Warner is one of the best and most original writers at work today.  The only reason I gave this, this third book, four stars instead of five is because his two previous, Morvern Callar and These Demented Lands were so much better.<br />From the title, you might think this book has to do with the opera world.  Hardly.  It concerns the fifth-form sopranos at Our Lady of Perpetual Succor School for Girls in the Scottish village of Port.  the plot concerns a day trip the girls (Orla, Kylah, Chell, Manda and Fionnula) are making from their small village school to the city for the national singing finals. While these girls are superior sopranos with beautiful voices, they really don't give a hoot about music or the singing competition. These five girls are completely focused on their free afternoon in the city where they fully intend to prowl the local pubs for attractive prospects among the opposite sex.<br />A local McDonald's provides the place to shed their school uniforms and don the sexy outfits they consider more fitting.  Somehow, Warner gets the descriptions of the clothes exactly right, even down to the girls' underwear.  With their makeup and nail polish applied, the girls head off, some directly to the pubs, some to buy CDs, etc., before meeting again for rehearsal with Sister Condron.<br />The book is written in dialect and that takes a little getting used to, but not much.  It would, in fact, have suffered greatly had Warner not written in dialect.  The dialogue has a perfect air of authenticity about it: this is exactly what naughty girls at Catholic schools do and say when the Sisters' are occupied elsewhere.<br />The outcome of the singing competition comes as no surprise and the girls are exhilarated.  They head to the town's local disco, The Mantrap, where they manage to fill the night with slow dances with a group of submariners from the nuclear submarine that has just anchored in the bay.  Here, too, Warner captures perfectly, the thoughts and feelings of Catholic school girls.  In fact, he may have captured them a little too perfectly; we feel almost like voyeurs. Dawn finds the girls gathered for breakfast at the local station buffet &quot;none appearing much worse for wear.&quot;<br />These are not wealthy boarding school girls.  Just the opposite.  They are from poor, working-class families, something that makes their situation in the book all the more poignant and bittersweet.  This is it.  Youth is really all these girls have.  None of them really has much hope or much of a chance of escaping the grim and bleak future their parents' are now living.<br />The book is not perfect.  In a story told by Fionnula, she resurrects characters from Warner's two previous novels. This story has a distinct feeling of simply being tacked on (as well as being a little too reminiscent of Trainspotting) rather than being an integral part of the story of the sopranos and their day in the city.  The girls' story is good enough as it is; we didn't need to be reminded of anything else.<br />The plot in this book is obviously more contrived than in Warner's first two novels and, at times, it borders on the preposterous.  And, while the girls are almost perfectly characterized, Orla's actions sometimes ring a bit unbelievable.  Her desires, especially her sexual desires, are just a bit too sophisticated for a seventeen year old girl who is battling cancer. Still, Warner has done a next-to-perfect job in his creation of the five girls who make up the sopranos.<br />The Sopranos is definitely a commercial book, but commercial doesn't have to mean bad, especially not when it's as well-written as this one is.  Morvern Callar, however, is still Warner's most memorable and unique character and These Demented Lands is his tour de force to date, a book that was so heady and surreal it seems almost impossible to top.  While The Sopranos is extremely well-written and is, by turns, funny, sad, comic, hilarious and tragic, itis a book that fails to reach the status achieved by his previous two.  Warner is such a wonderful and polished writer, though, that top them he will.  In time.	2000-10-16
2244628:US	50718004	R2ZH4NH9YJOVJ9	0553373978	894115662	Little, Big	Books	5	104	111	N	N	A Perfect Dream Come True	You don't have to like science fiction or fantasy to love Little, Big.  Anyone who appreciates beautifully crafted writing and books that touch the deepest part of soul should find what their looking for here.  John Crowley is one of the most wonderful writers in existence and Little, Big is certainly his best effort to date.  His wonderful (and wondrous) books do unfold without a lot of John Grisham action, so if that's your idea of great literature, Little, Big probably wouldn't be for you.<br />About half of this gorgeous story takes place in New York City, although Crowley never actually calls it that, he just writes, &quot;the City,&quot; while the other half takes place at Edgewood (you will find as you read that none of the names in this book are chosen at random, each has a special significance that eventually becomes crystal clear).  Edgewood is an unsurpassingly complicated house, built around the turn of the century, by an architect whose wife could see...faeries. <br />Although we never meet the faeries directly in this novel, their presence is felt through almost all of the book.  They are the faeries of A Midsummer Night's Dream, embodying the qualities of mischievousness, whimsy, capriciousness and untrustworthiness.  The faeries are also an odd mix of power and vulnerability, but their spirit is in decline.  Much of what happens in Little, Big happens because the faeries must rejuvenate the old with the new.  Far from being a simple tale of magic or fantasy, this a highly complex one; Little, Big is a mammoth work of more than 600 pages in length.<br />The story begins with Smoky Barnable, an ordinary man who marries into an extraordinary family (the architect's great-granddaughter).  It is Smoky who introduces us to Edgewood and to the subtle, but fantastic presence that his wife's family seems to take for granted.  Smoky has a difficult time adjusting and sometimes he feels as though he's the only sane person in an otherwise insane world.  The other residents of Edgewood see it differently; they somehow realize that a grand scheme is being played out and that once it is, their lives, as well as the lives of the faeries, will take on a luminous new meaning.<br />As we near the end of the century, Smoky's son Auberon leaves Edgewood for the City.  It is, however, not quite the magical city that Smoky knew.  There is a depression, nothing runs quite like it should and a feeling of dread looms over all.  Against this background of dread, Auberon meets and falls in love with Sylvie.  It is her disappearance that provides the catalyst for the final act of the faeries' scheme.<br />Despite Little, Big's length, not a word in the book is wasted.  Everything is essential, everything is perfect and everything is perfectly placed.  There are digressions and detours, but they all have their purpose.  And, even if they didn't, they are a joy to read, in and of themselves.<br />This is a book that unfolds slowly, like new Spring leaves or roses on a perfect summer's day, but slowly is just right for Little, Big.  Crowley conveys so many emotions in this book:  joy, sorrow, loss, lust but most of all, love.  By the time you reach the end, you come to a slow but perfect understanding of why the faeries' rejuvenation is so crucial.  This is a beautiful and beautifully-told tale and one that lingers...like a lover's kiss or the end of that perfect summer's day.	2000-10-16
2245072:US	50718004	R32N6MUQ1DZ4RI	0374185522	475272008	The Lexus and the Olive Tree: Understanding Globalization	Books	4	17	19	N	N	A Very Important Book	There can be no doubt that The Lexus and The Olive Tree is a very interesting and, probably, important book.  Globalization has become a household word, yet there are few, including me, who really understand all of its ramifications.  Not since Nicholas Negroponte's Being Digtal has a book come along that helps us understand the real meaning of globilazation as well as does The Lexus and the Olive Tree.<br />Friedman see globilization as the defining theory of the post-Cold War world.  The lexus, to Friedman, is the pinnacle of high-quality production, and high-quality production is what makes globilization possible.  The olive tree is seen as the symbol of wealth in pre-modern, &quot;slow&quot; economies.<br />Friedman defines globilization as that cluster of trends and technologies (the Internet, fiber optics, digitalization, satellite communications) that have served to increase productivity and speed up international business since 1989, the year of the fall of the Berlin Wall.  During this period, the cost of communications has declined with more and more people now accessing sources of finance and technology.  In fact, anyone who has ever used the Internet for research or simply sent or received an email is a part of the &quot;democratization&quot; of globilization.<br />Virtually every page in the book contains information so important you might want to keep a pencil handy to underline.  For example, Friedman tells us that, as far as globilization is concerned, the most frequently asked question is, &quot;How fast is your modem?&quot;<br />Friedman does wax a bit grandiose at times.  He is certainly a name-dropper extraordinnaire.  The man, however was foreign affairs columnist for the New York Times.  He certainly has meet and chatted with all the people he talks about; we don't doubt that, we just get a little tired of hearing about it.  His imaginary arguments between real political figures can be a little annoying as are his overly-clever chapter titles.These things, however, can be easily overlooked.<br />One thing that really does mar this otherwise excellent book is Friedman's extreme sense of patriotism.  He seems to view globilization as just another reason to exercise the doctrine of Manifest Destiny.  We are definitely not living behind the times here in Western Europe; in fact, in many areas of technology we are far superior, a fact that Friedman sadly overlooks.<br />Despite this book's one glaring fault, it is still extremely important and should not be overlooked.  Friedman's message is clear and it does make sense:  Forget old ideas of a first, second and third world.  They just don't exist.  In today's society, all that matters is the Fast World and the Slow World and those who don't keep up will find themselves out in the cold.	2000-10-16
2245781:US	50718004	R1RV50HVTJS8LZ	0316158461	639679794	The Archivist: A Novel	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Beautifully Assured and True-to-Life	Martha Cooley's beautiful first novel, The Archivist combines T.S. Eliot, jazz and the Holocaust in a wonderfully assured manner.<br />The Archivist opens in the 1970s and tells the story of Matthias Lane, a lapsed Protestant in his early 60s.  Outwardly, Matthias seems to be the perfect archivist; he is both orderly and reclusive.  Working at a mid-sized American library, Matthias' days are routine until a young poet named Roberta Spire asks for access to restricted material.<br />The restricted material Roberta wishes to access are letters from T.S. Eliot to an American woman and they have been sealed from the public until the year 2020.  Roberta, however, is sure those letters contain the answer to the mystery of why Eliot converted from Protestantism to Anglo-Catholicism as well as why he rejected his emotionally unstable wife, Vivienne.  Roberta, whose parents escaped Nazi Germany and later converted to Christianity, reminds Matthias of his own wife, Judith, a Jew who became obsessed with the Holocaust during the days following World War II.<br />The relationship between Matthias and Judith forms the heart of the novel and their marriage contains many elements of the Eliot's own failed union.  Cooley echoes Arthur Miller's play, Broken Glass and its character of Sylvia Gellburg in that Judith's preoccupation with the Holocaust becomes more than just a preoccupation, it becomes the trigger, along with her interfaith marriage to Matthias, that leads to her degeneration into psychosis and eventual institutionalization.<br />Despite their religious differences, Matthias and Judith are drawn together by a mutual love for poetry and jazz.  They are a happy couple until the war intervenes.  Judith then falls into a deep depression that Matthias can neither understand nor feel himself.<br />The rift between Matthias and Judith only widens as she becomes more and more absorbed in her own Judaism.  Just before her institutionalization, Judith becomes obsessed with the idea of tikkum olam (healing the world) as the only possible reparation for the ramifications of the Holocaust's evil.<br />Although this is primarily Matthias' story, we do get a look at the world through Judith's eyes through a series of her hospital diary entries.  In the hands of a lesser writer, this could have been jarring and distracting, but Cooley handles it like a master.  Furthermore, her portrait of Judith is so real and powerful that her diary soon becomes all-absorbing.<br />There are many novels that contain characters who eventually unravel and descend into a world of madness.  Many of these novels are well-written while others tend to veer off into melodrama.  This one could have been one of the more melodramatic ones had Cooley not characterized Judith so well.  As it is, we cannot fail to feel her pain and empathize with her plight.<br />This is a book of several disparate themes, of stories within stories, but Cooley ties them all together.  Matthias, with Roberta as his catalyst, is finally able to perform an especially symbolic act of atonement and reparation.<br />A Brooklynite, Cooley is particularly adept at portraying her setting.  We get a real sense of New York City, and especially Brooklyn, in this novel.  The characterizations of the minor characters, too, especially, Len and Carol, Judith's adoptive parents and both jazz aficionados, are particularly poignant and true-to-life.<br />Although The Archivist is a book that deals with an extremely serious theme, Cooley does relieve its intensity and bleakness with light touches of humor.  That she is able to do so in a way that is both realistic and effective is a testament to her power as a writer.  One of the most poignant of these masterful touches occurs when Judith drags the hospital's Christmas tree outside and burns it.<br />&quot;Come now,&quot; says her therapist.  &quot;None of the other Jews here burned down the Christmas tree.&quot;<br />Judith's response is both comic and tragicand perfectly in keeping with her character.  &quot;None of the other Jews here,&quot; she says, &quot;had matches.&quot;	2000-10-15
2245821:US	50718004	RQU76DOILYCZJ	006099486X	418849151	The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity, and the Making of The Oxford English Dictionary	Books	5	11	13	N	N	A Fascinating Look at a Fascinating History	&quot;I am a nobody...treat me as a solar myth, or an echo, or an irrational quantity, or ignore me altogether.&quot;  This is a plea made late in the nineteenth century, from James Murray, the editor of the Oxford English Dictionary, which was, at the time, still in progress.  Murray was then in his third decade of work compiling the OED and had been accustomed to a quiet, cloistered life of study.  His anonymity slowly faded, though, as bits and pieces of the dictionary-in-progress were published.  Although Murray may have been dismayed to be thrust into the public, his loss is definitely our gain, for without knowledge of Murray, we wouldn't have knowledge of the brilliant but true story that is so exquisitely spun out in The Professor and The Madman.<br />A troika of personalities lies at the center of this story:  Murray, the editor-in-chief of the OED; Dr. William Minor, an institutionalized murderer who was responsible for more than 10,000 quotations included in the OED; and, of course, the OED itself.  The compilation of this mammoth dictionary lasted more than seventy years making it, by far, the largest undertaking of its kind in history.<br />William Chester Minor was a Yale graduate and a retired U.S. Army surgeon who served the Union during the Civil War.  Minor's psyche had always been slightly unstable and the events of the war pushed him over the edge.  Minor relocated to England and took solace in his love of art and the prospect of studying under John Ruskin.  At the age of thirty-seven, however, in 1872, Minor shot and killed George Merrett as Merrett walked to his shift at a brewery.  Minor was arrested immediately and diagnosed as severely delusional.  He was committed to Broadmoor Institution in Berkshire, about forty miles north of the city of Oxford.  At Broadmoor, Minor lived out the rest of his life, some thirty-eight years, in a small, book-lined cell, tortured by nightmares and paranoid fantasies during which he was molested by the taunting spirits he believed haunted his room.<br />Minor found some solace in painting and music, but reading was his grand passion.  At one point in his life, he managed to develop a friendship with Eliza Merrett, the widow of the man Minor had murdered.  Mrs. Merrett helped Minor stock his Broadmoor library and it is thought that in one of the books she mailed him from London was a note asking readers for help in combing various works of literature in order to provide quotations and contextual references for a new dictionary that was being assembled and which would be called The New English Dictionary of Historical Principles.<br />James Murray was a scholar who had written works on the Scottish dialect and had edited collections of Scottish poetry.  A teacher at the prestigious Mill School in London, Murray was nominated by his friend, Frederick Furnivall to head the newly-revived effort to produce what would eventually become the definitive dictionary of the English language.  Although only forty at the time, the work would consume the rest of Murray's life.<br />Unbelievably, it was Minor who provided Murray with invaluable assistance in assembling the contextual quotations that became the dictionary's greatest asset.  Listing his address simply as &quot;Broadmoor, Crowthorne, Berk,&quot; Minor had effectively hidden both his identity and his fate from Murray.  A full seventeen years after Murray and Minor first corresponded, however, a series of incidents took place, some of them deliberate and some accidental, and Murray and Minor finally met.  Although their initial meeting was a mixture of curiosity and compassion on Murray's part, it soon gave way to lasting friendship, a friendship based on a mutual love of lexicography and letters.<br />Included in this book are many wonderful bits and pieces regarding the convoluted history of the OED and the earlier lexicographical efforts to bring it to fruition.  The history of Dr. Samuel Johnson's Dictionary of the English Language of 1755 is traced and illuminated with several amusing anecdotes.  Of them, Winchester writes that they &quot;seem nowadays to have been only stepping-stones, and their magnificent volumes of work very little more than curios, to be traded, hoarded, forgotten.&quot;<br />Although it is the OED that is the real hero of this book, Winchester gives us an especially intimate portrait of both Murray and Minor and we come away feeling as though we know both men.  Minor's tragic history is handled with delicacy and insight.<br />Winchester, himself, owns one of the original printing plates used to print the OED.  It is one of his prized possessions and reveals the author's affection for the OED and the men who created it.  &quot;The OED,&quot; he writes, &quot;was the heroic creation of a legion of interested and enthusiastic men and women of wide general knowledge and interest; and it lives on today just as lives the language of which it rightly claims to be a portrait.&quot;<br />Winchester's love for his subject matter is evident throughout this work and the result is a fascinating look and a fascinating piece of history.	2000-10-15
2245925:US	50718004	R1FB86PHOCH8SB	0226756998	223729028	Love in a Dead Language	Books	5	23	24	N	N	A Virtuoso Feat of Methodical Madness	One of the most striking things about Love in a Dead Language is that it has, not one, but five, dedications.  This is the first indication that this book is going to be something completely out of the ordinary.  And it is.<br />The first dedication is from Lee Siegel, a professor of Indian religions at the University of Hawaii, the author of this very unusual book.  The second is from the Hindu sage Vatsyayana, author the classic (and silly) treatise on love, the Kamasutra.  Then there are also dedications from the novel's own cast of characters:  Leopold Roth, a fictional professor of linguistics who attempted to translate the Kamasutra; Pralayananga Lilaraja, a medieval scholar; and Anang Saighal, and Indo-Jewish graduate student, who, according to this story, has just put the entire volume together.<br />After this rather unorthodox beginning, Love in a Dead Language just keeps getting better and better and more and more inventive.  It is, reportedly, Roth's failed attempt at translation, along with his commentary.  Together they form, not his own view of the Kamasutra, but rather his obsession with, and seduction of, a beautiful Indo-American girl, Lalita Gupta.  (Yes, this is an allusion to Vladimir Nabokov's Lolita, and it is not the only Nabokov allusion in this novel, all to the good.)<br />These two texts are accompanied by comments and footnotes from Pralayananga, also autobiographical, and Saighal, who completes the narrative after Roth is murdered when an unknown assailant hurls a Sanskrit-English dictionary squarely at his head.<br />Interspersed among this madness are extracts of Hollywood movie scripts about India, posters of Mira Nair's film, Kamasutra, a term paper complete with the teacher's notes and pages from a comic book Kamasutra (as if the original isn't comic enough).  Then we have the real and imagined quotes from the real and imagined writers on India from various centuries, letters, including one from Siegel, and, most hilarious of all,bits and pieces from the memoirs of a ninety-five year old movie star which are, amazingly, dedicated to a porn actress.  The above are already more surprises than almost any book packs, but Love in a Dead Language packs even more.  A little more than halfway through, we must turn the book upside down, since one of the chapters is printed that way.  Deliberately, of course.<br />Siegel's inventiveness and originality of style are not the only thing that distinguishes this book.  His use of language is nothing if it is not brilliant and creative.  Siegel masters so many styles and voices it's difficult to believe he created them all.  There is the erudite academic, the barely-literate jock, the silly campus newspaper, the just-average student.  Amazingly, Siegel writes parodic Hinglish, American slang and flowery Victoriana with equal style, wit and aplomb.  The result is both hilarious and hysterical.<br />The book ends with a bibliography that is so convincing you will be tempted to take it seriously.  Don't.  It would only spoil the fun.  And fun, above all else, is what this book is about.  There are more jokes, puns, asides and riddles in this book than any one person can possibly mine.  It is virtuoso feat of the highest order.  A sweet, methodical madness that will leave you laughing so hard you'll find it difficult to keep on reading.	2000-10-15
2246426:US	50718004	R2WSHN1T46P01K	0425157997	390171615	Speak Sunlight: A Memoir	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Sensuality-Steeped Memoir of Beauty and Love	Alan Jolis was the son of a Paris embassy official, a privileged boy, who spent every summer with his parents' married housekeepers, Maruja and Manolo, in their native Galicia, one of the provinces of Spain.  As Jolis puts it, he was &quot;little Lord Fauntleroy...abandoned in a leper colony.&quot;  For this was Franco's Spain and Galicia was scrub-poor.<br />In this sensuality-steeped memoir, Jolis tells us how he loved to toss coins onto the railroad tracks so the trains would flatten them and make &quot;Franco disappear.&quot;  &quot;In place of his military uniform and round face,&quot; Jolis writes, &quot;there is a shiny blankness, smooth as a mirror.&quot;<br />&quot;We are subversives,&quot; one of Jolis' uncles said.  &quot;Franquistas hate free time.&quot;  Jolis' days in Spain are, however, carefree, and he spends his time attempting to stomp the tails off lizards, eating paella, talking with a donkey named Ludvino and tasting wine so dark and heady that it made his mouth &quot;pucker with tannin.&quot;  Later, he would even run with the bulls in Pamplona, be doused with tar by gypsies and stumble into secret Basque separatist cafés.  His eye for detail is camera precise and stunning.  In Galicia, he writes, &quot;the black-shawled crones hiss at girls who wear skirts that reveal their kneecaps.&quot;<br />The set-piece on bullfights is one of the best in literature and so filled with sensual impressions that you come away from it feeling as though you, yourself, are drenched with sun, blood and wine.  Jolis notes, quite correctly, that &quot;bullfights are the only events that start on time in Spain.&quot;  He also explains a special move made only by matadors, one in which the matador swipes his cape gracefully over the bull's face much &quot;as the saint did to Christ.&quot;<br />Maruja and Manolo, however, are the central figures of Jolis' boyhood and the love among the three is all-pervasive.  Jolis felt cherished by this couple, and their Spain, dusty, beautiful and sunburnt, became his as well.  <br />&quot;To love,&quot; wrote Jolis, &quot;is to allow yourself to be haunted.&quot;  Anyone who is privileged enough to read this gorgeous memoir will come away haunted, as well.  Haunted and infused with the rich images it presents and the love it so clearly evokes.	2000-10-14
2246576:US	50718004	R32A9TK3KVNL3W	0819522457	733109431	il cuore – the heart: Selected Poems, 1970-1995 (Wesleyan Poetry Series)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Beautiful Look at the Italian Landscape and Art	In Il Cuore, Kathleen Fraser's lovely poetry centers around the Italian landscape and Italian art.  Two things that are, by their very nature, already infused with poetry, Fraser elaborates on these themes and exposes their underlying beauty.<br />She writes:  The letter A is a plow/Was A/where/you made and/unmade your mind.../first hesitation/when you doubted/what you/thought you/were/looking for?<br />A highly stylized tool for observing and uncovering the world, language, in Fraser's hands, becomes poems of imagistic precision that uncover beauty and our own response to it.  The twenty-five years of work in Il Cuore are poems of a disjunctive and fragmentary structure that still manage to convey a feeling of wholeness and completeness.  The author makes use of mathematical diagrams, the shapes and shadings of letters as well as lyric odes to fashion lovely skeletal poetry whose dense pockets of energy and blank spaces create a palette of Impressionism, much in the way Debussy did with music.  One example is Tree:  One did hear/the flow of nearby branches/shear occasional and limp/yet this rawness/moves, is/moving/even sudden atrophy/of limb.<br />Fraser, who lives part time in Italy, knows her subject matter well and, with few words, manages to convey all the differences between what's seen, what's felt, what's said and most of all, what's only perceived.  In one of Giotto's Arena chapel frescoes, Fraser sees:  a salmon length of brick the same/as Virgin's gown, angel feathers/salmon flesh and roe/lifting one swift arc.  She is a poet with the talent to perceive perception:  motion (less leaves) blue sky/inlaid their branching/lightness/pale rose breadth/of shade/through intervals.<br />&quot;The New,&quot; Fraser says, &quot;comes forward in its edges in order to be itself.&quot;  The poems in Il Cuore, so filled with lyric skeletal beauty, create impressions with their silences as much as they do with their carefully-chosen words.  These are truly poems that cut deep and remain.	2000-10-14
2248224:US	50718004	R1EQM5GIDDPBE5	0380978091	838030657	The House of Gentle Men	Books	2	11	19	N	N	Artificial, Contrived and Melodramatic	Set in Louisiana, during the time of World War II, The House of Gentle Men features protagonist Charlotte Garvin, a dreamy girl who is suffering from a surfeit of pain.  She has just lost her mother in a tragic fire; her brother Milo is reportedly unstable.  One day, entranced by war stories of improbable romance, Charlotte goes wandering in the forest, presumably in search of the man of her dreams.  Nearby, however, are soldiers involved in training maneuvers.  Instead of the love Charlotte is seeking, she finds horror instead.<br />Dazed and rendered mute by what she has experienced, Charlotte returns home where she awaits the birth of her baby, a baby who, in her tortured eyes, is a demon, a confirmation of her condemnation by God.  Unable to face that condemnation, Charlotte takes her newborn son into the forest and leaves him at the base of a tree stump.<br />Enter Louise Olen, another young woman, but a woman quite different from Charlotte.  Obsessed with cleanliness to such a degree that she even polishes the stumps of trees, Louise discovers Charlotte's baby, names him Daniel and takes him home to her own father, Leon, the proprietor of a place of fantasy, The House of Gentle Men.<br />Leon is now a man alone; his wife abandoned him after years of neglect.  Although it is too late for Leon, he does see the error of his ways and The House of Gentle Men was established for women who are suffering in much the same way as did Leon's own wife.  Staffed by men who are chronic abusers, ignorers and humiliators, The House of Gentle Men caters to the very kind of woman these men have made victim.  Although intercourse is forbidden, kisses, kind words and other loving actions are not.  They are, in fact, freely given, and it is through this balm of atonement that the men hope to heal these damaged women and, at the same time, repair their own tormented souls.<br />Several years go by before a strange but handsome looking young man appears.  This is the guilt-ridden Justin, a man so tormented by his past deeds that he tries to hang himself.  Surviving, he goes to work for Leon in an effort to mend both his past as well as his heart.<br />Coincidentally, at just the same moment Justin appears, Charlotte Garvin also knocks at the door of The House of Gentle Men seeking solace and comfort for the suffering she had endured seven years previously.  Even more coincidental is the fact that Justin just happens to be one of the men who inflicted upon Charlotte her own unbearable pain.<br />It doesn't take a genius to guess what happens next.  These two people, the most improbable of all lovers, in the most coincidental of all circumstances, fall deeply in love.<br />Although the plot is extraordinarily artificial, contrived and melodramatic, Hepinstall does have virtues as a writer.  Her characters are well-drawn and insightful, even if their circumstances are too unbelievable to be taken seriously.  Even the book's minor characters, like Louise's young brother Benjamin, Charlotte's friend, Belinda and even the young Daniel, himself, are fully fleshed human beings, possessed of both good and evil, human beings we could easily care about and for whom we could feel much empathy if only we could believe in their plight.<br />Hepinstall also writes smooth, even prose, although her sense impressions do veer off into the realm of the &quot;purple&quot; from time to time:  &quot;The night was good for love, in the same way that some nights are good for fishing.  The moon pulls at a certain angle, the air turns a certain flavor, the breeze releases a certain amount of sugar and salt.  And men and women respond to the changes, and their angel souls rock inside their animal bodies like catboats in a furious sea.&quot;  Or:   &quot;Upstairs, the fire gained in intensity, fed by unsent letters, pulled threads, fingernails, the wax of secret candles.  It melted buttons.  Broiled Panama hats on searing brass hooks.  Turned the notches black on bedposts.  Broke cologne bottles and tormented the scent within them.&quot; <br />And then there are the jarring metaphors:  &quot;...a wooden floor smooth as a cut beet,&quot; or &quot;Love is just some sort of a sparkling peace.&quot;  Hepinstall is obviously trying too hard and it shows.  Painfully.<br />Hepinstall does do an admirable job with pacing and both the emotional and erotic tempo gain speed as we progress toward the novel's end.  But, it just isn't enough.  The implausible, the fantastic, even the absurd, all of these and more, can and do form the basis for many superior novels.  And, Hepinstall should be congratulated for taking a chance with highly original material.  Unfortunately, she just isn't a good enough writer to pull it all off.	2000-10-13
2249244:US	50718004	R1SSUO4OZENSHP	0156439611	466126836	If on a Winter's Night a Traveler	Books	5	15	18	N	N	A Genuine Masterpiece of Invention	If On a Winter's Night a Traveler, Italo Calvino's inventive discourse, is a genuine masterpiece of convolution, evolution and conversation; a work of synthesis that draws upon traditional narrative and then revises, creating and recreating images and perspectives on reading, writing, perception and reflection in the postmodern world.<br />Particularly insightful is Chapter Eight which contains the diaries of a writer in doubt and poised on the brink of a novel; the entire work, however, explodes readership in a fresh and fascinating way.  An immensely tantalizing read, this book can be as irksome as a fly behind your ear or as softly appealing as a lover's kiss.  It is, above all a deeply satisfying and brilliantly original book and one that cuts through the excesses of fiction like a lawn mower cutting through new spring grass.  Calvino reels off ideas like fireworks on the Fourth of July and he provides us with an ending that is sharper and sweeter than pink lemonade on a hot summer's day.<br />This book is a perfect literary vacation:  refreshing, rejuvenating and simply delicious with new twists and turns around every bend.  It definitely takes us places we have never been before, but absolutely hope to see again.  The prose is alternately dreamy, sensual, crystaline and precise, but always perfect.<br />With levels of organization as complex as a molecule of DNA, the ten stories that make up If On a Winter's Night a Traveler is a true joie de vivre and is unique among modern novels.	2000-10-12
2250090:US	50718004	R3VMNDT7EKHEP1	0060987561	406344440	I Know This Much Is True (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	38	44	N	N	Brilliant	I Know This Much Is True is by no means an easy or even pleasant book to read but it is certainly an incredible one, far surpassing Lamb's debut novel, She's Come Undone.  Inventive and imaginative, I Know This Much Is True is one of those rare books that has the ability to make every other book pale beside its brilliance.<br />This is the story of Dominick Birdsey's journey, and it is a journey fraught with insanity, pain, hatred and, most of all, love.  As the journey begins, his identical twin brother Thomas has somehow managed to cut off his hand at the local library in order to purge the world of its sins in the weeks just prior to the war in Kuwait.  Thomas is a paranoid schizophrenic and Dominick, fortunately or unfortunately, has been his brother's keeper since their mother's death from cancer.<br />The story's core is formed by the relationship between the two brothers.  When Dominick meets with Thomas' psychiatrist, in order to help her better understand Thomas, he soon realizes that he must help himself as well.  Filled with anger and sorrow at the personal losses and mistreatment in his life, Dominick realizes that he is not the man he ought to be or longs to be.<br />Wally Lamb weaves in and out of time like a master storyteller and creates coincidences that allow his characters and their descendants to become an integral part of Dominick's family history for three generations.  When Dominick learns that his mother is dying, for instance, he takes her father's Italian biography to have it translated as an end-of-life gift to her.  The female scholar he hires, however, absconds with it after Dominick turns down her sexual overtures.  Years later, after Dominick has injured himself in a fall from a ladder, this same woman reappears in his life with the translated work.  This happens, of course, just in time for Dominick's intensive psychoanalysis, which includes reading the biography of the very angry and narcissistic man who is Dominick's grandfather (and who also happens to have been called, Dominick).<br />The biography, itself, holds many surprises, such as the fact that a Native American named Drinkwater shares his liquor with one of the elder Dominick's brothers, causing the man to lose his job.  In fact, an entire dynasty of Drinkwaters play a continuing role throughout this narrative, eventually affecting not only the elder Dominick, but his daughter and grandson in very intricate ways that only eventually become apparent.<br />There are many characters that appear throughout this book, and each of them is a complex and multi-faceted individual.  No cardboard cut-outs here.  Everyone has a real history, and, like real people, they are a mix of good and bad and somewhere-in-between.  The only character who seems to be lacking in depth is Dessa, Dominick's ex-wife, for whom he still pines.<br />The story loops back and forth from current time to the years when Dominick and Thomas were growing up, then takes a giant leap back to Grandfather Dominick's day, then back to current times again.  Never confusing, never disconcerting and all as smooth as silk.  The reader comes to feel exactly what Dominick is feeling as he makes his way through life.<br />Dominick's connection with Thomas forms the heart of the book.  He feels relief over being the sane twin but pain as well, and resentment at his responsibilities for Thomas.  There is a sadness at being left out of his mother's special relationship with Thomas and the fear of encroaching insanity in his own life as well.  These are powerful emotions, but Lamb handles them expertly and never slips into melodrama.<br />This is a book where characters journey to the brink of insanity and then, somehow, find their way back to health and wholeness.  Lamb, however, unlike many other, lesser authors, adds so many new dimensions and surprises to this story that we can only marvel at his talent.	2000-10-11
2250660:US	50718004	R3SG1IAXTFIBZ5	015652791X	625158186	A Literate Passion: Letters of Anaïs Nin & Henry Miller, 1932-1953	Books	5	170	179	N	N	The Language of Sexual Liberation	Whatever you may think of her writing, Anaïs Nin was definitely a femme fatale.  Henry Miller was, he claimed, the &quot;happiest man alive.&quot;  Together, Nin and Miller created a literary language for sexual fulfillment; she in a diary whose original form still remains unpublished, he in novels banned in both the United States and England until court cases in the early 1960s permitted their publication and turned Miller into something Nin had already achieved:  the status of a cult hero.<br />Nin and Miller met in Paris in 1931.  Miller, an aspiring novelist, wanted to meet the banker's pretty wife who had sung the praises of D.H. Lawrence and whose books had been deemed &quot;pornography&quot; outside of France.  Neither Nin nor Miller, at that point, had published much.  Their mutual interest, as they freely admit, was in sex and in each other and, consequently, they began a long affair.<br />It was during this affair that both Nin and Miller produced their finest writing--the writings that would eventually become Nin's two diaries and her novel, House of Incest, as well as Miller's Tropic of Cancer and Black Spring.  Each believed in, and nurtured, the others genius and Miller wrote that Nin's diary would take its place &quot;beside the revelations of St. Augustine, Petronius, Abelard, Proust and others.&quot;<br />Miller, only forty-one, but already somewhat down-and-out, fascinated the twenty-nine year old Nin, whose vague yearnings filled the many pages of the diary she had been keeping since the age of ten.  &quot;He's a man who makes life drunk.  He is like me,&quot; she mused.  Nin and Miller, however, were not alike.  One of their most essential differences was a difference typical between men and women--Nin censored herself, while the world censored Miller.<br />Published in 1963, Nin's diary caused a literary sensation.  It was begun as a letter to her father, a man who abandoned the family when Nin was only ten, and it remained intensely private.Revised into frequent distortions, the diary was a record of a compulsion to conceal as much as of a quest for feminine fulfillment.  A mixture of fact, fantasy and calculated lies, Nin's editor asserts that the diary nevertheless presents a &quot;psychological&quot; truth.  Kate Millett hailed Nin as &quot;the mother of us all&quot; and the women's movement immediately embraced her writings.  Author Erica Jong said that no woman had told &quot;the story of women's sexuality&quot; more honestly than had Nin.<br />Despite the praise, if we read between the lines, while still observing Nin's frenetic whirl from bed to bed, we come to realize that she was really never satisfied. Her insatiable appetite aside, Nin was, at heart, a prudish libertine.  Her childhood molestation by her father, whom she, herself, seduced as an adult a year after meeting Henry Miller, seems to have contributed greatly to her private inhibitions.  Although she flitted from bed to bed she sadly confessed, &quot;I am hellishly lonely.&quot;  Instead of sex, Nin longed for &quot;what I give Henry:  this constant attentiveness.&quot;<br />In the &quot;Black Lace Laboratory,&quot; as Miller's apartment was dubbed, Nin and Miller conducted literary and erotic experiments, prompting Nin to write him a thinly disguised warning to herself, &quot;Beware just a little of your hypersexuality!&quot;  Toward the end of his life, unable to write about women except as prostitutes, Miller claimed not to know what the sexual revolution was about, saying that he had always loved and honored women.  Nin agreed, saying that Miller was a romantic, rather than a rake.  At eighty, Miller confessed that far too many people engaged in sex without love.<br />Basking in the warmth of Nin's caresses, her skilled editing of his work, and the material possessions she lavished upon him, Miller wrote prolifically and with a rare genius.  Eventually, his romance with Nin faded (or warmed) into friendship, but the legacy of their literary teamwork remained:  In 1974, Nin was elected to the National Institute of Arts and Letters.  The Los Angeles Times names her Woman of the Year in 1976, the same year Henry Miller received France's Legion d'honneur.  The 1990 movie, Henry and June is a chronicle of Miller's affair with Nin, which later became a triangle involving Miller's wife, June.<br />Nin and Miller have become cultural icons.  Nin is the focus of women's study courses as well as being included in Bartlett's Familiar Quotations.  Miller and his work need no comment.  Although both Nin and Miller were pioneers of free speech and sexual freedom, and both helped to forge a new literature and a new culture, the ultimate emptiness of their lives, with its attendant lack of depth and meaning point to the futility of their attempt to wrest security and happiness from sexuality alone.	2000-10-11
2251189:US	50718004	R3UINZ606K9IS4	0312243022	785940945	The Hours: A Novel	Books	5	38	41	N	N	A Veritable Treasure Chest	Michael Cunningham's novel, The Hours, is a tribute to Virginia Woolf but it is a treasure chest of rare gems in its own right.<br />The book is the story of one day in the lives of three extraordinarily remarkable women living in three different periods in history.  In the first story, Cunningham takes a quasi-fictional look at the last day of Virginia Woolf's life.  His description of Woolf's final thoughts as she descends into the deep water of the river are terrifically poignant and moving.  Even those who are not fans of Woolf would be hard-pressed to come away from this without tears in their eyes.<br />The second story belongs to Clarissa Vaughan, nicknamed &quot;Mrs. Dalloway,&quot; a Bohemian-style book editor living in present-day Greenwich Village.  A woman concerned with aging, Clarissa still values individual moments, people, memories.  Clarissa is busy with preparations for a party she is hosting for her former lover, an award-winning poet now dying of AIDS, a man modeled after Woolf's Septimus Warren Smith who battled demons of his own.  The preparations for the party are more than reminiscent of Woolf's own heroine, Clarissa Dalloway.<br />The third story is set in post-World War II California and concerns itself with the life of Laura Brown.  Laura is a housewife living what amounts to an extremely claustrophobic life.  She feels closed in, shut out and intellectually impotent with regard to her mundane household chores.  Laura Brown desperately needs a &quot;room of her own.&quot;  She tries to carve out just enough hours in the day to read Woolf's &quot;Mrs. Dalloway,&quot; and she considers Woolf's own suicide a viable option of her own for escaping a life that has become unlivable, not through horror but through simple lack of meaning.  <br />Laura's story is, perhaps, the most difficult because it is the one that most parallels Woolf's own life.  A brilliant woman, Virginia Woolf had the misfortune to live during a time where woman were seen and slept with but whose opinions were valued little.  Cunningham adroitly gives us a look at, what must have been Woolf's own quiet desperation through Laura's eyes as she realizes that, no matter how intelligent is, no matter how much she has to contribute intellectually, no matter how many brilliant and original thoughts she has, ultimately, she will be judged only by the sheen on her kitchen floor and the flakiness of her pie crusts.<br />Although not long, The Hours is a book that demands the reader's undivided attention.  It takes time and effort to mine all of its treasures, many of which lie far below the surface.  The magic that ties these three disparate stories together is Cunningham's amazing prose.  Although there are three stories going on at the same time, none ever feels jarring, interrupted or intrusive.  Each jump in time, is, in fact, bittersweet.  We hate to leave Clarissa and yet, at the same time, we can't wait to return to Laura.  And Cunningham's careful attention to detail definitely shows his familiarity with Woolf.  Many passages in the book are so brilliantly written they almost sing.<br />The Hours is a book that dazzles, not with melodrama, but with those individual and ordinary moments that flicker in our memories and then replay themselves again and again, against all odds and expectations.	2000-10-11
2251214:US	50718004	R24PXZ73UNLIBE	0156907399	762777669	To the Lighthouse	Books	5	137	143	N	N	The Interconnectedness of All Things	Many critics, teachers and readers consider To the Lighthouse to be Virginia Woolf's masterpiece.  To the Lighthouse was published in 1927 and its structure is unique, although it does contain elements of the Victorian.  Woolf wrote this novel in only one year and did very little rewriting.  Both subtle and sharp, the ease with which the book was written is apparent in the flow of both its narrative and its prose.  The novel was written during one of the brief peaceful and happy times in Woolf's life.  (In 1895, after her mother's death, Woolf became almost continuously depressed and suffered a series of nervous breakdowns, culminating in her suicide by drowning in 1941.)<br />To the Lighthouse, like Woolf's previous novel, Jacob's Room, is a somewhat disjointed story, possessing numerous characters, points-of-view and conflicts.  The overlapping and separation of the characters and their stories seems to result from both intention and oversight and is a product of what Woolf referred to as &quot;all characters boiled down,&quot; and the &quot;break of unity in my design.&quot;<br />The story centers around the summer vacation to the Isle of Skye of the Ramsey family, a family Woolf admitted was very much like her own.  In fact, Woolf said that writing To the Lighthouse helped her &quot;rub out&quot; the obsessive memory of her own mother.  Mrs. Ramsey, like Woolf's own mother, is a woman of decidedly Victorian ideals, choosing to focus on her home, her marriage and her family.<br />Interacting with Mrs. Ramsey is the character most representative of Woolf, herself, Lily Briscoe, a young girl who is staying in the same beachouse as the Ramseys.  Unmarried, Lily draws both disapproval and sympathy from Mrs. Ramsey who firmly believes that &quot;an unmarried woman has missed the best of life.&quot;<br />Mrs. Ramsey and Lily represent the conflict between the Victorian and the Edwardian eras, the age of the woman in the home and the advent of the woman in the workplace.  An intelligent young woman, as well as a sensitive and talented artist, Lily is very aware of Mrs. Ramsey's disapproval.<br />The role of art in the novel deals primarily with Post-Impressionism and the attempt to freeze reality, not on paper or on canvas, but in the mind, and then to paint the very equivalent of this reality.  In many ways, To the Lighthouse resembles a painting because of its three distinct images of reality:  the summer, the return and the seven years in between.<br />Woolf was not the only writer to &quot;paint&quot; her novels.  In Place in Fiction, Eudora Welty writes of &quot;painting and writing, always the closest two of the 'sister arts.'&quot;  Throughout the novel, Lily works on one painting and cannot seem to &quot;connect the mass on the right hand with that on the left...But the danger was that by doing that the unity of the whole might be broken.&quot;  The need for connection in the painting is much like the need for connection in the narrative.  And Lily and Mrs. Ramsey both serve to fulfill the role as unifier.<br />One of the most startling moments of unification occurs as Mrs. Ramsey is staring at a bowl of fruit she has placed in the middle of the table during a dinner party.  Because of her extreme attention to detail, Mrs. Ramsey focuses on the bowl throughout the dinner.  She particularly notices the perfection of the arrangement while also fearing its imminent destruction as she catches another guest looking at the fruit, no doubt desirous of it.  Mrs. Ramsey thinks, &quot;That was his way of looking, different from her.  But looking together united them.&quot;<br />Even when not physically present in the story, Mrs. Ramsey continues to exert a strong influence.  At the end of the novel, Mr. Ramsey finally takes his two youngest children, James and Cam, to the lighthouse.  Both children have changed considerably from the time of their first vacation; Mrs. Ramsey's absence has required that they develop a new independence, yet she was their only tie to their father, the typically restrained and uninvolved Victorian husband.<br />The children must, however, incorporate the influence of both of their parents on their journey to the lighthouse, a journey that is both literal and figurative.  From shore, Lily watches them as she paints their journey, recalling Mrs. Ramsey with both annoyance and love.  Lily, like Woolf, herself, has finally come to terms with the connection of all things, the completion of a painting as well as the completion of a journey.<br />To the Lighthouse is a quiet, reflective and meditative novel and one of the first to display Woolf's unique Impressionistic stream-of-consciousness style.	2000-10-11
2251500:US	50718004	RSDW782R78CJI	0140148590	248472059	The General in His Labyrinth	Books	5	8	10	N	N	The Towering Presence of The Liberator	The General in His Labyrinth marked a radical departure in style for the Nobel Prize winning author, Gabriel Garcia Marquez.  While his previous works of fiction were deeply imbued with the culture of his native Colombia, this book was the first to draw directly from the tortured and labyrinthine history of the region.  The General in His Labyrinth tells the story of General Simon Bolivar, known as &quot;The Liberator,&quot; in many South American countries.<br />After leading the revolution that freed the northern part of South American from Spanish rule, Bolivar attempted to unite the regions into one country.  He was opposed by the local aristocracy, however, because, &quot;the oligarchies in each country...had declared war to the death against the idea of integrity because it was unfavorable to the local privileges of the great families.&quot;  Bolivar, as a consequence, suffered great disillusionment due to the failure of his dreams.<br />The General in His Labyrinth is a semi-fictionalized account of Bolivar's final days, in particular, his last voyage along the Magdalena River from Bogota, Colombia to the sea.  Bolivar had renounced the presidency of the Republic of Colombia and had planned to leave the political strife and civil war that followed the expulsion of the Spanish from South America.  Disillusioned, consumptive and still reeling from an assassination attempt, he intended to sail down the Magdalena, travel to Europe and live his remaining days in peace.  But Bolivar was a man of tenacious dreams and the plight of his people, coupled with the failure of their governments, forced him back into the political arena to once again seek the realization of his efforts.<br />Bolivar was an almost mythic figure, who, even before his death appeared larger-than-life.  Although he was well-known for his unparalled leadership abilities, he also possessed a passionate nature and titanic temper.  Such a figure, of course, dominates this book, much as Bolivar's presence dominated during his lifetime.  The other characters simply pale in comparison, although this is not a criticism; Bolivar was simply so overwhelming that almost everyone paled beside him.  The only notable exceptions are those characters who never actually appear in the novel, other than in their remembrances of the General:  Santander, his political enemy; Sucre, his most able commander; and Manuelita, the General's loyal and loving mistress.<br />Garcia Marquez says he picked the voyage down the Magdalena to fictionalize because it was the least known episode in a well-known and very publicly-lived life.  His reasons were also, no doubt, thematic.  Bolivar's voyage contains a symbolic power that Garcia Marquez utilizes to excellent effect.  In this master writer's hands, the trip becomes one of both nostalgia and sentiment for the glories and hopes of youth.  As the General and his large entourage float through the steamy jungle towards the sea, the General floats in and out of sickness and delirium and his memories become inextricably linked to hallucination.  The attitudes and discomforts of illness and old age also play a prominent role in this story, and their effects of the body are described in detail.  This is, however, no Love in the Time of Cholera, for in that book, old age was accepted, even if disliked, and tolerated with more than a modicum of comedy.<br />Some people may detect a distinct difference in style between this book and Garcia Marquez's masterpiece, One Hundred Years of Solitude.  I don't think this was deliberate on Garcia Marquez's part.  I read Garcia Marquez, first in Spanish then in English, and in Spanish, the difference in style is not so readily apparent.  One Hundred Years of Solitude was translated into English by Gregory Rabassa, Garcia Marquez's longtime translator, while this book was translated by Edith Grossman, something that may, and no doubt does, account for the stylistic differences in the English translation.<br />The combination of Garcia Marquez's enormous myth-making talent and Bolivar's own mythic persona makes for extremely intriguing reading.  The dangers the author conquered are multiple and range from public censure to an excess of factual information at the expense of creativity.  Not surprisingly, Garcia Marquex succeeds, even with the difficult task with which he presented himself.  Coupled with the genius of Garcia Marquez, Simon Bolivar's epic accomplishments and near-mythic character give this book an immediacy and intimacy that still manages to resonate.  And it never diminishes the towering presence of the Liberator.>The combination of Garcia Marquez's enormous myth-making talent and Bolivar's own mythic persona makes for extremely intriguing reading.  The dangers the author conquered are multiple and range from public censure to an excess of factual information at the expense of creativity.  Not surprisingly, Garcia Marquex succeeds, even with the difficult task with which he presented himself.    Coupled with the genius of Garcia Marquez, Simon Bolivar's epic accomplishments and near-mythic character give this book an immediacy and intimacy that still manages to resonate.  And it never diminishes the towering presence of the Liberator.	2000-10-10
2252956:US	50718004	R3UC82A97PG89M	0833523104	342588515	A Midsummer Night's Dream	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Shakespeare's Loveliest Comedy	In a Midsummer Night's Dream, Shakespeare's loveliest comedy, the world of four lovers collides in a magical woods one night during midsummer with hilarious results.  Pandemonium reigns and misunderstandings abound; nothing is as it seems, or should be, and that is what makes this play so perfect.<br />In A Midsummer Night's Dream, Shakespeare's extraordinary talent for creating poetry that is unrivaled is effective in both establishing character and demonstrating the theme.  The characters of this play all speak in poetic form with the exception of the English rustics who speak in prose.  This helps to place the fairies and the lovers on a higher and more transcendental plane that the artisans.  The artisans, as a result, become even more comical and serve to heighten the misunderstandings of love.<br />The poetry of Shakespeare's genius also helps to clarify the play^s theme of the extreme confusion and blinding power of love.  The rhythmic words help to create a magical setting while the rhyming scheme serves to portray the confusion each character feels while under the power of love.<br />Those who think that love is only a blissful dream, will find that Shakespeare, in this play of clever intrigue, shows also that love can be a place of extreme confusion.  As the audience ponders the revelry they have just seen on stage, Puck steps forth to conclude the confusion:<br />If we shadows have offended/ Think but this, and all is mended/ That you have but slumbered here/ While these visions did appear/ And this weak and idle theme/ No more yielding than a dream. <br />The audience is left in as much ambiguity as it felt throughout the performance; the play appropriately ends in a puzzling state of confusion.<br />The majority of events is this play take place during the night, even the rehearsal for the farcical play-within-a-play.  All of the mishaps occur during the nighttime hours and the confusion is not cleared up until the next morning when the four lovers arediscovered.  This setting of night allows the audience to drift into the idea that the entire play could well have been nothing more than a fantastic dream.<br />Sleep in another theme that threads its way throughout the play.  All of the mishaps and mistakes occur through the guise of sleep.  One of the major influences of sleep is that it allows Puck and Oberon to make use of the magic love flower whose power is only effective if its intended victim is fast asleep.  The flower, however, causes an hilarious love triangle that is not set straight until Oberon once again finds all of the confused lovers asleep.  When they are discovered the next morning and asked to explain their crazy night, the only explanation that can be given is that it was all a dream.<br />There seems to be no other way for Shakespeare to end this riotous entanglement of lovers, mythological beings, fairies and artisans but to explain it as a dream.  Throughout the play, with its nighttime atmosphere and frequent occurrences of sleep, the dreamy state of the characters is passed on to the audience.  The play itself is still in an inconclusive state when the characters leave the stage and many questions remain in the mind of the audience.  Puck's closing monologue, however, explains that puzzlement is the appropriate emotion to be felt during the course of the play.  Puck then goes on to persuade the audience that the only logical explanation for the ambiguity of the play, itself, is that, just as the characters themselves experienced, the audience has just awakened from a comical and fantastic dream.	2000-10-09
2253045:US	50718004	R23X27YWMGKL1C	0253211735	644733499	At the Mind's Limits: Contemplations by a Survivor on Auschwitz and its Realities	Books	5	54	59	N	N	That Which is Incumbent Upon Every Human Being	To the world at large, none of the death camps is better known than is Auschwitz.  There is now in existence a very large volume of literature regarding the atrocities committed in that infamous place, much of it written by its survivors.  This literature is often reflective as well as descriptive as it recounts, not only the day-to-day horror of life and death but the destructive effects of relentless and senseless violence on human understanding.  In this respect, the books of both Elie Wiesel and Primo Levi must stand as premier examples of intellectual and spiritual revelation as well as personal witness.<br />Jean Amery's At the Mind's Limit:  Contemplations by a Survivor on Auschwitz and Its Realities must join the works of Wiesel and Levi as indispensable reading for anyone seeking to grasp the deepest range of emotions and implications the name Auschwitz should evoke.  In this book Amery stresses the negative and shows on virtually every page how futile it would be to scrutinize the experience of a Holocaust survivor for anything even remotely redemptive.  Auschwitz was destruction without deliverance, a place of inexplicable and implacable hostility against the very definition of humanity.  As a consequence, a mind that searches Auschwitz, or any of the other camps, for reasonable and rational explanations will only be confronted with its own impotence.  As Amery puts it, &quot;In the camp the intellect in its totality declared itself to be incompetent...Beauty:  that was an illusion.  Knowledge:  that turned out to be a game with ideas.&quot;  The intellect, Amery tells us, was robbed of its transcendence, rendering the intellectual the most vulnerable of victims.<br />The five autobiographical essays that make up this remarkable book are models of intellectual sobriety, lucidity and moral earnestness.  Amery's experiences at Buchenwald, Bergen-Belsen and Auschwitz and other camps, detailed in the first essay, brought him to the realization that all of hispreviously-held aesthetic concepts and analytic capabilities were rendered useless.  &quot;The aesthetic view of death had revealed itself to the intellectual as part of an aesthetic mode of life; where the latter had been all but forgotten, the former was nothing but an elegant trifle.  In the camp no Tristan music accompanied death, only the roaring of the SS and the Kapos.&quot;  Spiritually disarmed and intellectually disoriented, &quot;the intellectual faced death defenselessly.&quot;<br />The book's second essay, which is unusually vivid, concerns the genesis and nature of sadistic physical torture.  Torture was an essential component of Nazism and not a peripheral aspect.  It was the determinant that defined and coalesced the basically depraved and destructive character of Nazism, an ideology &quot;that expressly established...the role of the antiman...as a principle.&quot;  Nihilistic principles have always existed, but German National Socialism distilled and purified them.  They tortured, not to gain advantages, but because they were torturers.<br />The remaining three essays deal with a variety of topics, all related to and all centering on the ordeals Amery endured during the Holocaust as well as its aftermath.  The book's concluding essay, &quot;On the Necessity and Impossibility of Being a Jew,&quot; is a culminating statement that defines in wretchedly painful terms a dilemma that is far more than Amery's alone.<br />As Amery both felt and lived with the Holocaust, his awareness demanded that he contend with all manifestations of postwar anti-Semitism, something he did with increasing frequency during the final years of his life.  Although his own Judaism was, to him, highly problematic, he was uncompromising in his opposition to those who attacked the ideological concept of the State of Israel.  &quot;The impossibility of being a Jew,&quot; he said, &quot;becomes the necessity to be one, and that means:  a vehemently protesting Jew.&quot;<br />Amery,however, worried that in any newfound prosperity the events of the Third Reich would be forgotten or simply submerged in accounts of the general historical epoch.  And, indeed, even the young survivors of the camps have now reached their seventh decade of life.  What will preserve the memory of the camps once the last survivor is gone?  For, &quot;Remembering,&quot; said Amery.  &quot;That is the cue.&quot;  <br />The entire world was, and is, affected by the atrocities of the Holocaust.  It therefore becomes incumbent upon every human being alive, and not just every Jew, as well as those human beings yet to be born, to bear the imprint of the Holocaust upon his heart.  In this way, mankind will never cease to do what is so very essential.  Remember.	2000-10-09
2253241:US	50718004	R3FR4JYBJBHS9X	0156628708	179043206	Mrs. Dalloway	Books	5	246	262	N	N	The Mystery of Human Personality	Although the time covered in this complex novel is only one day, Virginia Woolf, through her genius, manages to cover a lifetime unraveling and exposing the mysteries of the human personality.<br />The central character of the novel is the delicate Clarissa Dalloway, a disciplined English gentlewoman who provides the perfect contrast to another of the book's characters, Septimus Warren Smith, an ex-soldier whose world is disintegrating into chaos.  Although Clarissa and Septimus never meet, it is through the interweaving of each one's story into a gossamer whole that Woolf works her genius.<br />The book is set on a June day in 1923, as Clarissa prepares for a party that evening.  Unfolding events trigger memories and recollections of her past, and Woolf offers these bits and pieces to the reader who must then construct the psychological and emotional makeup of Clarissa Dalloway in his own mind.  We also learn much about Clarissa through the thoughts of other characters, such as her one-time lover, Peter Walsh, her friend, Sally Seton, her husband, Richard and her daughter Elizabeth.<br />It is Septimus Warren Smith, however, driven to the brink of insanity by the war, an insanity that even his wife's tender ministrations cannot cure, who acts as Clarissa's societal antithesis and serves to divide her world into the &quot;then&quot; and the &quot;now.&quot;<br />In this extremely complex and character-driven novel, Woolf offers her readers a challenge.  The novel is not separated into chapters; almost all of the action occurs in the thoughts and reminiscences of the characters and the reader must piece together the story from the random bits and pieces of information each character provides.  The complexity of the characters may add to the frustration because Woolf makes it difficult for the reader to receive any single dominant impression of any one of them.  This, however, forms the essence of the novel and displays the genius of Woolf:  It is impossible to describe any human being in a simple phrase or collection of adjectives.  We are many things to many people, all of them somewhat different, none of them the same, just as we are many things to ourselves.<br />Throughout the book, the reader is constantly called upon to compare and contrast Peter Walsh and Richard Dalloway, the two significant love interests in Clarissa Dalloway's life.  Compared to Peter, an adventurer, Richard Dalloway appears more than a bit reserved and dour.  But, readers must constantly question this view of Richard as his personality seems to alter with his altering relationships.<br />Intimacy, particularly emotional intimacy, and the preservation of one's uniqueness are two of Woolf's continuing themes.  We find that Clarissa married Richard, in part, to preserve her sense of self; Peter would have demanded far more of her than she was, perhaps, willing to give.  Here, Clarissa and Septimus, so outwardly different, would find they share much in common.  While Clarissa feels threatened by her daughter's tenacious tutor, Miss Kilman, as well as by Peter, Septimus feels threatened by his doctor.  Each feels the others are asking too much.  Septimus and Clarissa even agree on the subject of death:  &quot;There is no death,&quot; Septimus declares, while Clarissa, the atheist, secretly believes that bits and pieces of her will remain intact forever.<br />Although some characters in this book may, at first, appear to be one-dimensional, we soon learn that all are extraordinarily complex.  There is Sally, impulsive yet considerate; Richard, bashful yet timid; Peter inhibited yet adventurous; Septimus, insane yet credible.  And Clarissa?  She is all of these things and more.<br />It is, however, Woolf's torrential stream-of-consciousness prose that makes this novel a true masterpiece.  Even those who find the plot of little interest will be drawn in by the exquisiteness of Woolf's language.  This is a complex, character study in the fullest sense of theword, one with no easy answers, for Woolf, in the end seems to be telling us that perhaps, at our essence, we are all unknowable, even to ourselves.	2000-10-09
2254112:US	50718004	R2EJLMKUQJ3FMY	0879237996	160952490	Badenheim 1939	Books	5	65	67	N	N	Highly Restrained, Polished and Beautiful	Aharon Appelfeld's beautiful and highly polished novel, Badenheim 1939 was originally published in Hebrew in 1975.  Although the Holocaust forms both the historical backdrop of the novel as well as its imaginative focus, it does so from behind-the-scenes and, as such, is subtle and implicit in its assertions, all to its enormous credit.<br />Badenheim 1939 is set at an Austrian vacation resort during the spring of 1939.  A seemingly unremarkable assortment of middle-class Jews on holiday have gathered at Badenheim, only to later be united by what would become history's most atrocious turning point.  The &quot;Music Festival&quot; resort of Badenheim will, soon enough, become a place of Jewish detainment from which the only exit will be via forced transport to Poland.<br />The vacationers, however, for the most part, remain in blissful unawareness of what is to come.  Spring is in the air and summer is about to blossom; the Jews spend their days strolling the hotel gardens, visiting the cities cafés, sampling strawberry tartes at the local pastry shops, engaging in sports and bickering, gossiping, bargaining and complaining, much as any other vacationer.  The mounting horror, which every reader of this sensitive and elegant book will realize, is made all the greater by the fact that it is a horror the characters simply cannot, or will not, see.<br />Badenheim 1939 is written with an artistic subtlety and insight with which most modern readers remain sadly unfamiliar.  Appelfeld's concern, in this book, is with the prelude to the German catastrophe and not with its actual occurrence.  The author, himself a Holocaust survivor, makes virtually no mention of the Nazi atrocities and shows no interest in the graphic portrayal of the brutalities committed.  Appelfeld is certainly not oblivious to the facts, he simply has chosen to place his focus elsewhere.  In Badenheim 1939, the Holocaust is an incipient threat rather than a full-blown horror.<br />Appelfeld's prose is more akin to lyric poetry than to narrative fiction and shows a tremendous gift for rhetorical restraint that is rare among writers.  This is a beautiful and quiet tale, exquisitely told with imagery, understatement and indirection.  The effects of the narrative accumulate and change in much the same way the seasons do, in increments that are minimal and yet extraordinarily moving.  This is history, but it is history perceived at its most mundane.  In this remarkable manner, Appelfeld creates something of extraordinary beauty and yet, manages to intensify the tragedy.<br />In the end, Appelfeld's characters do, of course, suffer the horrors that befell all Jews, of every nation, whether directly or indirectly.  The genius of Badenheim 1939 lies in its projections of a gradual, incipient menace and its portraits of Jewish reactions, which range from ready adjustment to slowly unfolding despair.<br />It is in the space between the reader's knowledge of what is beginning to unfold for the Jews and the latter's own blindness to it that the book registers its most powerful impact, once again doing so without any direct reference to the ovens, the gas chambers or the camps.  Appelfeld's artistic beauty lies in his amazing ability to suggest rather than describe.  Giorgio Bassani was able to do something similar in The Garden of the Finzi-Continis but Appelfeld is, perhaps, the more superior.<br />Rarely has the tragic end point of Jewish fate been invoked no clearly and disturbingly and yet so indirectly.  We come away from Badenheim 1939 as though from a finely-rendered tone poem, complete with the knowledge that we have been absorbed into a special moment in time and in feeling; in this case, the moment just before the trains departed for Poland, the final pause before the end.	2000-10-09
2254417:US	50718004	R356J0EFYIJ4IZ	0374521352	689616208	The Dwarf	Books	5	36	39	N	N	Human Beings Need Flattery	&quot;Human beings need flattery; otherwise they do not fulfill their purpose, not even in their own eyes.&quot;  These are the words of the bold and heartless protagonist of Par Lagerkvist's novel, Dwarf.  At only twenty-six inches tall, the dwarf, whose keen insights are described throughout the book, is both a shocking and thought-provoking character, one of the most original in literature.  Told from the viewpoint of the dwarf, the book is a study in hatred, for the dwarf is filled with both hatred and rage toward humans and towards his own &quot;detestable&quot; race.  A truer nihilist there never was; not even Celine, himself, could have conjured up this much rancour and despair.<br />The dwarf lives as a servant and confidante to a Prince during the time when the Black Death was effectively wiping out the population of Europe.  There occur many instances in this book when the dwarf must commit the most vile and heinous crimes at the behest of the Prince, and the dwarf does so with a relish that is unconscionable.  Ultimately, his crimes force him into eternal imprisonment in a fortress dungeon where he spends his days writing daily recordings of the wickedness of his life and hopes to be called again to duty by the Prince.<br />From the very beginning, the dwarf condemns human beings as &quot;a pack of ingratiating cows&quot; who value such useless things as nobility and beauty and who babble about virtue, honor and chivalry.  Believing human beings to be &quot;shrouded in mystery,&quot; the dwarf exclaims, &quot;...nothing ever comes up from my inner depths.&quot;  Nothing but hate, that is.<br />Despite his vile and repulsive nature, the dwarf is loyal to and respectful of the Prince.  His most prevalent views of disgust are engendered by those of his own race and by himself.  &quot;It is my fate that I hate my own people,&quot; he declares.  Thinking of himself as an inferior being, less than human, the dwarf revels in the fact that humans hate him.  &quot;It fills me with satisfaction that I am hated...But I hate myself, too.  I eat my own splenetic flesh.  I drink my own poisoned blood.  Every day I perform my solitary communion as the grim high priest of my people.&quot;<br />It does not help matters that people fail to see this miserable dwarf as a separate being, with thoughts and feelings of his own, but instead see him as only an extension of the Prince.  &quot;If you kick him,&quot; they cry out, &quot;you kick his master.&quot;  Hating himself as he does, the dwarf relishes this treatment; at times he even comes to believe that he represents the nobility of the Prince, for it is common knowledge that &quot;A dwarf always knows more about everything than his master.&quot;<br />The dwarf goes on to depict several experiences with the Prince and with the unsightly, lascivious Princess, whom he also loathes.  When the Princess's lover dies, the dwarf, unable to comprehend love of any kind, himself, becomes involved in an intrigue that finally sends him to the dungeon.  There he records his own vile remembrances and reflects &quot;on the day when they will come and loosen my chains, because he has sent for me again.&quot;<br />While the purity of the hatred in Dwarf can be unnerving at times, the book is an extremely well-written and fascinating psychological portrait that has been somewhat sadly overlooked.	2000-10-08
2254418:US	50718004	R2NQJLMB0SRU7M	014044629X	981115146	The Decameron (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	32	34	N	N	A True Classic	Any book defined as a true classic is likely to be thought of as stultifying and incomprehensible...at best.  Yet, there are dozens and dozens of books that are true classics and still manage to speak to today's modern audience.  Boccaccio's Decameron is one such book.<br />The Decameron was written around 1350 during an outbreak of plague in Florence.  It is the fictional account of ten young people who flee the city to a country manor house and, in an effort to keep themselves occupied and diverted, begin telling stories.<br />Ten days pass in the pages of the Decameron (hence its name), and each person tells one story per day, making a total of one hundred stories.  These are stories that explore a surprisingly wide range of moral, social and political issues whose wit and candor will probably surprise most modern readers.  The topics explored include:  problems of corruption in high political office, sexual jealousy and the class differences between the rich and the poor.<br />The titles themselves are both imaginative and fun.  One story is titled, &quot;Masetto da Lamporecchio Pretends to be Deaf and Dumb in Order to Become a Gardener to a Convent of Nuns, Where All the Women Eagerly Lie With Him.&quot;  And, although the title, itself, is a pretty good summary of the story, even a title such as this cannot adequately convey Boccaccio's humor and wit.<br />Another story that seems surprisingly modern is, &quot;Two Men are Close Friends, and One Lies With the Other's Wife.  The Husband Finds it Out and Makes the Wife Shut Her Lover in a Chest, and While He is Inside, the Husband Lies With the Lover's Own Wife on the Chest.&quot;  A bit long for today's modern world, perhaps, where popular books are dominated by titles such as John Grisham's The Firm, but the outcome of this story is as socially-relevant today as anything that happened in fourteenth-century Florence.<br />The Decameron, however, goes far beyond plain, bawdy fun and takes a close look at a society that is unraveling due to the devastating effects of the plague.  The people in Boccaccio's time suffered terribly and the book's opening pages show this.  The clergy was, at best, inept and, more often than not, corrupt.  Those who had the misfortune to fall ill (and this includes just about everyone) were summarily abandoned by both their friends and family.<br />Those looking for something representative of the social ills of Boccaccio's day will find more than enough interesting tidbits and asides in these stories.  Serious students of literature will find the ancestors of several great works of fiction in these pages and readers in general cannot fail to be entertained by the one hundred stories spun by these ten refugees on their ten lonely nights.	2000-10-08
2254827:US	50718004	R3DC3DDQYF6VN	0465086322	994630897	To Be A Jew: A Guide To Jewish Observance In Contemporary Life	Books	5	81	83	N	N	Invaluable	As a French Catholic who has made the decision to convert to Orthodox Judaism, I found this book invaluable, both as a learning source and as a source of solace and joy.  Rabbi Donin tells us, in lovely language, just what everyday life is like for the Orthodox Jew.<br />Unlike many other religions, Judaism is primarily a religion of action and not beliefs.  Although certain basic beliefs do exist, much in Judaism remains open to personal interpretation.  Judaism does not demand that other people convert; in fact rabbis are encouraged to make at least three vigorous attempts at discouraging the possible convert.  Conversion is, nevertheless, possible, and it is important to remember that Abraham was a convert, as was Ruth, a descendant of King David.<br />In To Be a Jew, Rabbi Donin gives an overview of the history of Judaism and tells us that it was Maimonides who explained that any human being who faithfully observes the Seven Laws of Noah earns a proper place in heaven, no matter what religion he follows.  Additionally, The Torah of Moses is a truth for all humanity, whether Jewish or not.  Therefore, if one is not prepared to embrace the Jewish religion fully, it would be far better for him to remain outside this beautiful faith.<br />The Holy Temple, as well, did not benefit Jews only.  When King Solomon built the Temple, he specifically asked the Creator to heed the prayers of the gentiles who came to the Temple to pray (Kings I 8:41-43).  The Jewish prophet refers to the Temple as a &quot;House for all nations,&quot; (Isaiah 56:7).  The Temple was the universal center of spirituality, a concentrated point where the consciousness of our Maker filtered down into the world.<br />We also learn that in ancient times, the service in the Holy Temple during the week of Sukkos featured a total of seventy bull offerings.  This, the Talmud explains, corresponded to each of the seventy nations of the world.  In fact, the Talmud says, had the Romans only realized how muchbenefit, they, themselves, were deriving from the Temple, they never would have destroyed it.<br />Although Judaism certainly does not consider conversion a necessity, what about those who, like me, do find that Orthodox Judaism is the only way to fulfill their own spiritual needs?  As we learn in this book, the Code of Jewish Law (the Shulchan Aruch), prescribes three requirements for a valid conversion.  Those three requirements are:  (1)  Mitzvahs.  The convert must believe in one Creator and in the divinity of the Torah, as well as personally observe all 613 mitzvahs (commandments) of the Torah; (2)  Milah.  Male converts must undergo circumcision by a qualified Mohel or a ritual known as hatafas dam; (3)  Mikveh.  All converts must immerse in the Mikveh, a ritual bath linked to a reservoir of rain water.  This must all be done before a court of three Jewish men who themselves are true believers, who accept the divinity of the Torah and observe the mitzvahs.<br />Conversion, as Donin tells us, must be motivated out of pure love and spiritual desire and not done for the worldly purpose of furthering business or marriage, for example.<br />Those who are simply interested in the Jewish liturgy or the everyday life of an Orthodox Jew will find this book very interesting, even fascinating, reading.  But those who, like me, have made the firm and irrevocable decision to convert, will find the book invaluable.	2000-10-08
2254854:US	50718004	R29LQOLT683L5D	1860463312	369275603	Miss Smilla's Feeling for Snow	Books	4	3	5	N	N	If Only the Ending Had Been Better	Miss Smilla's Feeling for Snow reminded me of Richard Adams' Girl in a Swing.  The two books really don't have a lot in common, though, although both novels do take place, in part, in Copenhagen.  Girl in a Swing, however, moves to a quiet English village, while Miss Smilla's Feeling for Snow moves to the icy seas off the coast of Greenland.  What the two books do share in common are endings that are somehow less than satisfying, though for dissimilar reasons.<br />In Girl in a Swing, an English porcelain dealer finds what he believes to be the perfect wife during a trip to Copenhagen.  He quickly marries her and whisks her back to England where a slender but insidious strand of horror comes slithering into their marriage.  These strange happenings, however, are only clues to the central mystery of the book.  The result is that we are left with an unresolved psychological puzzle instead of any kind of genuine resolution.  Adams' writing, however, is as good as it gets, so we don't go away completely unsatisfied.<br />In Miss Smilla's Feeling for Snow, something several people are prepared to kill to conceal has been found on a remote island off the coast of Greenland.  Smilla Jaspersen, the protagonist of this book, is a doggedly determined Inuk with a sensitive feeling for snow, something that comes across as quite natural.  Smilla becomes involved in the plot when a young boy she has befriended meets with disaster.<br />Miss Smilla's Feeling for Snow is wonderfully atmospheric, especially if you are addicted to winter, as I am.  The awesome immensity of the northern ice and sea is made so blindingly real you can almost feel the cold.  Smilla, herself turns out to be the most original amateur detective since Jessica Fletcher.<br />Hoeg does a wonderful job of building up the tension throughout the book, but, like Adams, he falls down at the end.  The big secret is simply too big, and it is tied too tenuously to the rest of the plot to provide a satisfying resolution to the story.<br />We are left with the question:  Does a less than satisfying ending of an otherwise great book really matter?  Sometimes.  But in the case of Miss Smilla's Feeling for Snow, the characters are so well-drawn and the writing so wonderfully perfect, that the book is well worth anyone's time despite its one minor flaw.	2000-10-08
2255430:US	50718004	R32ZEBN6OTHOBN	0674637127	459511438	The Art of Shakespeare's Sonnets	Books	5	43	44	N	N	Shakespeare's Sonnets Anew	In this invaluable book, Helen Vendler investigates what she finds aesthetically most provocative in each of Shakespeare's beautiful sonnets, i.e., the fact that Shakespeare, himself undertook the writing of the sonnets as a &quot;writer's project invented to amuse and challenge his own capacity for inventing artworks.&quot;<br />The Art of Shakespeare's Sonnets is comprised of a single introductory chapter outlining Vendler's own critical perspective and 153 individual sonnets, together with critical commentary. (Sonnets 153 and 154 are presented together in one essay.)  Vendler's format seeks to restore &quot;comprehension of the internal logic and old finery of Elizabethan lyric&quot; which has almost completely disappeared from contemporary examinations of these sonnets.  Vendler's book will help readers to better understand the language of Shakespeare's sonnets as well as uncover textual clues in a clearer and more deliberate fashion, leading readers to a greater appreciation of the power of language when manipulated by a master poet intent upon expressing the inner life of the speaker.<br />The author provides fresh and unexpected interpretation of the sonnets based on clear, textual evidence rather than through a dominant theoretical perspective.  She also explores linguistic strategies directly from Shakespeare's own compositional acts and then constructs upon them an interpretation of the poet's duty &quot;to create aesthetically convincing representations of feelings felt and thoughts thought.&quot;  Vendler chooses to concentrate her efforts on Shakespeare's ability to accurately convey the speaker's own misery, torment, joy, wonder, exuberance, etc. within the mere fourteen lines demanded of the sonnet, that most structured of all forms of expression.  She points out that it is in the &quot;simultaneous marshaling of temporal continuity, logical discreteness and psychological modeling that Shakespeare's sonnets surpass those of other sonneteers.&quot;<br/>Vendler then goes on to assert that Shakespeare, as a writer of sonnets, was seeking as many ways as possible to manipulate the form.  His orchestration thus results in vignettes, musings and one-sided conversations with imagined listeners who do not reveal an extended hidden narrative or meaning but do &quot;comprise a virtual anthology of lyric possibility.&quot;<br />Vendler invites the reader to participate in his own exploration of the sonnets.  Unlike most critical treatises where the poems appear as a block in front of the text followed by an analysis, in this book each sonnet and its analysis appear together.  The reader can formulate his own speculations and check them against Vendler's without even having to turn the page.<br />For those who want to listen to the beauty of these sonnets, there is a CD bound into the back cover of the book, providing an indispensable tool in helping readers to fully appreciate all the textual and acoustical clues--the allure de la phrase.<br />This is definitely not a book to read straight through, nor is it intended for the novice.  Readers should already have some familiarity with the sonnets and those who do not should keep an annotated edition close by.  Familiarity with poetic terms is also a necessity, since Vendler, a splendid poet herself, makes frequent reference to terms which are undoubtedly unfamiliar to those who are not frequently engaged in the study or analysis of the lyric form.	2000-10-07
2255740:US	50718004	R2U0OGX6QTUKR3	157322751X	144250243	Shakespeare: The Invention of the Human	Books	5	64	67	N	N	Maddening but Bountiful	In The Western Canon, Harold Bloom stated that Shakespeare, along with Milton, was the center of Western thought.  In Shakespeare:  The Invention of the Human, he contends that Shakespeare, alone, &quot;went beyond all precedents (even Chaucer) and invented the human as we continue to know it.&quot;  Bloom assigns Shakespeare the singular honor of being responsible for our personalities, not just in the Western world, but in all cultures.  Falstaff and Hamlet, the central characters of Bloom's discourse are, he says, &quot;the greatest of charismatics&quot; and are &quot;the inauguration of personality as we have come to recognize it.&quot;<br />Naturally, critics of Bloom have taken great exception to sweeping statements such as the above and their general reaction is one of resentment.  Individual critical response depends on what particular school of criticism the respondent adheres to, but most often critics and readers alike have simply attacked Bloom, himself.  However, even those who denigrate both Bloom and this book have found the time to read and review it to a greater extent, rather than to a lesser.<br />The book, itself, is made up of three major critical discussions by Bloom combined with brief discussions of each of Shakespeare's thirty-seven plays.  Bloom begins by expressing his awe at Shakespeare's ability to create literary characters who epitomize the quintessential nature of humanity itself.  In Bloom's opinion, Shakespeare shapes all of humanity, not just the elite literati.<br />Bloom does acknowledge the fact that great writers existed before Shakespeare and says that, &quot;The idea of Western character&quot; defined as &quot;the self as a moral agent&quot; came from many sources at many different times.  Individually, however, Bloom says, Shakespeare's predecessors created nothing more than &quot;cartoons&quot; and &quot;ideograms&quot; rather than fully-developed personalities.  &quot;Every other great writer will fall away,&quot; he says,but &quot;Shakespeare will abide, even if he were to be expelled by the academics...&quot;  And Bloom makes his point so convincingly that even those who cannot abide Shakespeare (or Bloom) will be swayed.<br />Bloom next turns to short, individual synopses of each play, with each review intended to support Bloom's argument that Shakespeare was truly the inventor of the human.  These reviews do bristle with long quotations from the plays themselves but they are always extremely interesting to read.<br />Bloom, however, is nothing if he is not contentious.  In concluding his review of The Taming of the Shrew, he says, &quot;Shakespeare, who clearly preferred his women characters to his men, enlarges the human, from the start, by subtly suggesting that women have the truer sense of reality.&quot;<br />After the individual play reviews, Bloom treats us to a concluding essay entitled, &quot;Coda:  The Shakespearean Difference,&quot; and says that &quot;Shakespeare, through Hamlet, has made us skeptics in our relationships with anyone, because we have learned to doubt articulateness in the realm of affection.&quot;  Bloom, himself, identifies most intimately with Falstaff.  &quot;What Falstaff teaches us is a comprehensiveness of humor that avoids unnecessary cruelty because it emphasizes instead the vulnerability of every ego, including that of Falstaff himself.&quot;<br />Whatever your feelings about Bloom or Shakespeare, Bloom does take a critical stance that he supports textually.  His humor is there but it is, at times, scathing.  While no one should take everything Bloom introduces in this book at face value, no one should dismiss it all, either.  Both this book, and Bloom, deserve a lot more than that.	2000-10-07
2255751:US	50718004	R2BRDZWNY10OK3	0140096949	606697544	The Farewell Party: Revised Edition	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Politics as French Farce	Milan Kundera is one of the writers and intellectuals closely affiliated with Alexander Dubcek's, Prague Spring, that failed attempt to create a safe haven for &quot;socialism with a human face.&quot;  Soviet tanks ended The Prague Spring before it could really begin in 1968.<br />Kundera, who was unrepentant, suffered exclusion from the writer's union, loss of his teaching post at the Prague Film School, denial of a passport and the banning of his plays--and that was just the beginning.<br />Labeled a pariah, Kundera refused to practice Issac Babel's &quot;aesthetics of silence.&quot;  He simply went right on writing, earning a worldwide reputation that eventually rewarded him with the 1973 Prix Medicis Etranger for his hilariously funny novel, Life is Elsewhere.  Kundera, still better known in Europe than in the United States, is a highly accomplished, polished and sophisticated writer.<br />In The Farewell Party, we have a contemporary Czech novel washed in the atmosphere of a French or Viennese turn-of-the-century farce.  At a health spa and fertility clinic, only a short, four-hour drive from an unnamed European capital, barren but hopeless ladies splash in the mineral waters, hoping against hope for the miracle that will infuse them with new life.  Infusion does arrive, in the form of the Mad Scientist, Dr. Skreta, and the book takes on the character of mindless erotic frolic on a gaudily bedecked stage.<br />The characters are better described as caricatures.  There is saucy Nurse Ruzena, newly pregnant, the result of &quot;two fateful hours,&quot; there is Kamila, the betrayed wife and Klima, her philandering husband, who just might be the father of Nurse Ruzena's baby-to-be.  The absurd accelerates to near-pandemonium as these character-cliches spin and twirl, dazzling us with their antics.  The atmosphere alters, however, when a new character enters the scene.  This is Jakub, a rehabilitated victim of a Stalinish purge, newly-returned from the dead.<br />Sexual antics, burlesque, and elegant, high comedy comprise the tone of The Farewell Party and the narrative, as always, weaves its way into graceful and inevitable patterns.  But as anyone who has read Kundera knows, darker elements always manage to work their way into what appears, at first glance, to be nothing more than high comedy and farce.<br />Political overtones begin to gather like darkening shadows, first enclosing Ruzena and Jakub who engage in a seemingly ridiculous argument over a rambling bulldog and end up wanting to kill each other.<br />Kundera, himself, seems amused at all of this, and he takes it in stride, as if nothing untoward has happened.  Things do, however, happen...<br />Kundera, who wrote The Farewell Party while still living in post-Dubcek Czechoslovakia, obviously decided not to submit to any possible penalties and, instead, remained faithful to himself and his art.  The result is a political novel from one of this century's most gifted writers in a time and place in which political novels were most vehemently forbidden.	2000-10-07
2255869:US	50718004	RCEKLD52IUAR6	0553212788	604725626	The Prince (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Beautiful, but Don't Miss the Comedy	Speaking as it does about popes who break their word, Roman emperors with criminal tendencies and the illustrious saviors of Italy, The Prince would seem, on the surface, to be a most serious book.  And it is.  On the surface.  However, anyone who is well-acquainted with Machiavelli will recognize a recurrence of much of the lighter terminology of his comedy, The Mandragola, in The Prince.  In fact, Callimaco, the protagonist of The Mandragola, is also a fine example of a prince, in Machiavellian terms.<br />In Chapter Six of The Prince, Machiavelli discusses princes who seem to rule thanks to their own powers.  One such prince is Moses, although Machiavelli is quite unsure about exactly what it was that made him a ruler and he doesn't say much more about him than &quot;(Moses) had such a good teacher.&quot;  When discussing ecclesiastical states in Chapter Eleven, Machiavelli expresses a certain modesty.  &quot;It would be a rash and imprudent man who ventured to discuss them.&quot;  This modesty, however, needs to be taken with a very large grain of salt, as Machiavelli does go on to discuss the history of the papacy, treating popes in much the same way as secular princes, i.e., in military, political and temporal terms.  In fact, the only indication Machiavelli ever gives about the nature of power sanctioned by God is in his brief reference to Moses.  &quot;(Moses) should still be admired, if only for that special grace which made him worthy of talking with God.&quot;  Whatever power God transfered to Moses was transferred verbally, at least according to Machiavelli.<br />Attention to language, when reading The Prince, is crucial.  Much of the force of this book derives from a single set of terms:  Fortuna and Virtu.  While Virtu has been translated in many different ways, the closest interpretations are &quot;power&quot; or &quot;strength of character.&quot;  While it can refer to one's strength of body or mind, it can also refer to the strength of an entire nation.<br />Fortuna, which is usually translated as &quot;fortune&quot; or &quot;luck,&quot; is a term that carries much tradition, deriving mainly from Boethius's The Consolation of Philosophy.  In Chapter Twenty-Five of The Prince, Machiavelli alters both the denotation and connotation of Fortuna.  Rather than portraying Fortuna as a goddess who has complete control over human affairs, he insists on joint control.  &quot;I think it may be true that Fortune governs half more or less of our actions, but that even so she leaves the other half more or less in our power to control.&quot;  Fortune, he says, is a woman, and she will give men room to act if they will only treat her right.<br />In the penultimate chapter of The Prince, Machiavelli explains how human affairs are ruled by both Fortuna and Virtu.  If Fortune seems to be unfavorable, a man must create his own destiny, but only if Virtu will let him!  Machiavelli uses the example of Pope Julius II who &quot;proceeded boldly&quot; where all circumstances seemed to oppose him.  This echoes Callimaco in the Mandragola:  Will he have enough Virtu to overcome Lucrezia's virtue and anything else Fortuna may decide to throw at him?  Will he even get to see her?<br />Another notion used in The Prince is that of Occasione, or opportunity.  This is a concept that is very important to Machiavelli, attested to by his re-writing of an epigram by Ausonius in which Machiavelli depicts opportunity as a woman who is always on the move and one that is very difficult to catch!<br />In the final chapter of The Prince, Machiavelli addresses the importance of Occasione, exclaiming that the time is ripe for a prince to stand up and deliver Italy from the barbarians.  He also remarks on how an Occasione, and the more difficult the better, can bring out a character's Virtu.<br />Throughout all of The Prince we see the use of example and experience.  In the dedication to Lorenzo de Medici, Machiavelli speaks of his &quot;knowledge of theactions of great men, acquired through long experience of contemporary affairs and extended reading in antiquity.&quot;<br />The semantics of The Prince, the field of reference of Machiavelli's poetic rhetoric, connect the drama to the political tract.  The description of Fortuna as a &quot;ruinous river&quot; is only one example of how the semantic field of The Prince is one of action, of the here and now, and of force.  &quot;Fortune is a woman, and the man who wants to hold her down must beat and bully her.&quot;  It is important to act now because the opportunity for the rescue of Italy will not wait on the arrival of a prince.  Machiavelli's strategy in The Prince is to establish the validity of his general remarks and principles, using examples from history, recounting brief episodes that prove his point.<br />The rhetoric that Machiavelli uses in The Prince is impressive, and it has proven very convincing, even after five centuries.  But if we aren't aware that, in the end, it is rhetoric, we may fall for any of Machiavelli's many traps.<br />Language is what reconstitutes our reality.  In The Prince, Machiavelli uses impressive terminology and rhetorical strategies for the worthiest of causes:  the unification of Italy.  The argument in The Prince, however, is a rhetorical one and that rhetoric is, itself, just a tool for constructing reality rather than a means for getting at some truth about a pre-existing reality.  Perhaps it even shows that corruption and nobility are matters of perspective and not inherent opposites.  A prince is, after all, likely to have far different objectives than a common young Florentine, although both may well use the same method of satisfying their desire.	2000-10-07
2256075:US	50718004	R1QTJE718H07YD	0805210415	393259245	The Periodic Table (Everyman's Library Contemporary Classics Series)	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Toward a Deeper Understanding	Nobel Laureate Saul Bellow said, regarding this book, &quot;There is nothing superfluous here; everything this book contains is essential.  It is wonderfully pure and beautifully translated.&quot;<br />Since I read this book in the original Italian, I cannot attest to the beauty of the translation.  However, I would agree with Bellow that the book is wonderfully pure and lacking in the superfluous.<br />The Periodic Table, Primo Levi's fantasy regarding chemical elements and written in his elegant, spare style, is filled with images that animate the chemist's world.  To a trained chemist, as Levi was, the molecular world is very real, and the its underlying events do not go unnoticed.  This is the world that exists beneath the one we usually see; the world that gives matter its colors, tastes, smells, shapes and capacities.  Levi's desire for a more complete understanding of the chemical world parallels his desire for a more complete understanding of the spiritual world of mankind.<br />In this book, Levi tells us, in part, of his years as a teenager and of his experiences with another young man named Enrico.  Both boys wanted to become chemists, but for very different reasons.  Enrico thought that chemistry would be the key to a more secure life.  Levi, however, looked at chemistry as a way to understand and make sense of the universe.  He says, &quot;Chemistry represented an indefinite cloud of future potentialities which enveloped my life to come in black evolutes torn by fiery flashes.&quot;  He goes on to describe his burning desire to find the truths hidden in chemistry by telling us that he would have grabbed Proteus, himself, by the throat and forced him to speak, so great was his hunger.<br />Levi's burning desire for a deeper understanding of the universe and all it contains is not new.  The ancients, such as Aristotle, and later, Newton, also searched for the key to the mysteries of life.  But Levi's desire was perhaps more pure, more essential.  He writes, &quot;Conquering matter is to understand it, and understanding matter is necessary to understanding the universe and ourselves.&quot;<br />Although chiefly a Holocaust memoir, the book is not without its lighter moments.  In school, Levi had decided that chemistry alone could no longer fulfill his needs and he resolved to pursue physics.  As an assistant, he was called upon to prepare pure dry benzene for an experiment by distilling the solvent over sodium.  However, using potassium instead of sodium, Levi caused a laboratory fire.<br />The quest for knowledge of the universe is ongoing.  Levi, however, sadly found himself spurred on by the prejudices that only man can inflict on man.	2000-10-07
2256591:US	50718004	R2FBQU26BRE6W8	0060997028	542955149	Life Is Elsewhere	Books	5	10	13	N	N	What is Poetry?	Milan Kundera's novel, Life is Elsewhere revolves around the principle that in a society with strict rules, a poet risks betraying his lyricism.  In expounding his theme, Kundera describes the life of his protagonist, Jaromil, from birth to death.  Jaromil misreads the liberty previous poets such as Shelley, Mayakovsky and Rimbaud have taken with their own creations and proceeds to apply those own (misread) liberties to himself.<br />&quot;Lyric poets generally come from homes run by women,&quot; Kundera tells us.  And, as if to prove himself correct, Jaromil, too, comes from a home run by a woman--his mother.  Jaromil's mother, however, is a monster of deceptive affections and she deliberately leads poor Jaromil so far astray that he comes to believe he truly does possess the gifts his mother assigns to him and that he is &quot;one of the elect,&quot; destined for greatness.  Jaromil, meanwhile is wretchedly inadequate and soulless to the core.  But before condemning his poor mother, the reader should realize that her penchant for making Jaromil's childish utterances into the stuff of Blakean bon mots is not only a defensible argument against romanticism, it is also the best thing in this book.<br />Kundera lets us know repeatedly that Jaromil is a pariah.  But he also invests his protagonist with enough of Byron's charm to let us forgive him his flights of fancy and fantasy.  Kundera sees fit to involve Jaromil with that one group of people who are even easier to poke fun at than poets--politicians.  The politician's power, however, can be real, while the poor poet's is forever imagined, even in the best of cases.  And, while Rimbaud saw fit to rid himself of both poetry and the politics behind poetry, Jaromil never takes that step no matter how much Kundera pushes him.<br />This is, perhaps, Kundera's most elastic novel, forging ahead while also expanding in every other direction.  It is also hilariously funny.  While not possessing the classic endurance of Laughable Loves or The Joke, Life is Elsewhere is still classic Kundera and well worth anyone's investment.	2000-10-06
2257784:US	50718004	R37K6KPIYT2CNH	0553272535	88900905	Night	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Horrors of the Holocaust	Elie Wiesel's Night is a recounting of the horrific effects of the Holocaust, not just on the Jewish community but on all mankind.  The acts of atrocity committed in the death camps devastated people the world over and the suffering continues to this day.<br />One example of the heinous acts committed occurs at the end of the war, when Wiesel and the rest of the camp of Buna were being forced to transfer to Gleiwitz.  The transfer was a long, arduous journey for all.  The weather was bitterly cold and there was a heavy snowfall.  The distance the prisoners were made to walk was much farther than most people would ever dream of walking today, yet these people, human beings who were already in a weakened condition, were often made to run, and, if one collapsed or was injured or simply could no longer bear the pain, he was shot or trampled without pity or a second thought.<br />One image of many that Wiesel will never forget is that of Rabbi Eliahou's son leaving the Rabbi for dead, pretending not to see how tired his father was growing and how far he was lagging behind the others.  At that moment, Wiesel made the decision to never abandon his own father, even if staying with him meant certain death for them both.<br />So adept were the German forces at breaking the spirits of the Jews that even Wiesel's faith in God, above all other things, so strong at the outset of the book, grows weaker as time goes on.  When his father is knocked to the floor for politely inquiring as to the location of the lavatories, Wiesel does not strike back; he knows the punishment would be too great.<br />The incident that had the most effect on the young Wiesel was the suffering prior to the death of a young boy.  No one who could help cared to do so.  Wiesel looked on, helpless and forlorn, questioning God about the reason for such atrocities.  Then, as now, there appeared to be no reason, save for man's unbearable inhumanity to man.  If the Jews ever saw even a ray of hope, they also saw that ray of hope destroyed.  Fighting for everything they had, from their possessions to their dignity to their very lives, the result was always the same.<br />At the end of the war, Wiesel looked into a mirror and saw &quot;a corpse.&quot;  His body was, somehow, still alive, but he felt robbed of his very soul.  It is feeling he shared with all Holocaust survivors, as well as with many Jews and non-Jews who felt, even indirectly, the effects of such naked brutality.<br />The world was forever changed by the atrocities of the Holocaust and no one recounts the atrocities of those days with more emotion than Wiesel.  Night is a horrific book, but it is also a tribute to the unbreakable spirit of man.that ray of hope destroyed.  Fighting for everything they had, from their possessions to their dignity to their very lives, the result was always the same.<br />At the end of the war, Wiesel looked into a mirror and saw &quot;a corpse.&quot;  His body was, somehow, still alive, but he felt robbed of his very soul.  It is feeling he shared with all Holocaust survivors, as well as with many Jews and non-Jews who felt, even indirectly, the effects of such naked brutality.<br />The world was forever changed by the atrocities of the Holocaust and no one recounts the atrocities of those days with more emotion than Wiesel.  Night is a horrific book, but it is also a tribute to the unbreakable spirit of man.	2000-10-05
2258261:US	50718004	R2V8XSXLKTUV7E	0679732187	864447420	Absalom, Absalom! The Corrected Text	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Quintessential Faulkner	At the heart of this novel is the story of one man's attempt to make a place for himself in the class and race stratified society of the pre-Civil War South.<br />Thomas Sutpen arrives in Faulkner's Yoknaphtawpha County with a wagon filled with slaves, a captive French architect and an endless supply of personal energy and determination.  In his mind is a &quot;design&quot; which he intends to carry out.  &quot;I had a design.  To accomplish it I should require money, a house plantation, slaves, a family incidentally of course, a wife.  I set out to acquire these, asking no favor of any man.&quot;  Sutpen is more concerned with the status such a plantation could give him than with any wealth.  His is a quest for respectability and social acceptance.<br />While the heart of the novel is Sutpen, its emotional center is Quentin Compson, a Harvard student.  Hailing from Yoknaphtawpha, Quentin's grandfather just happened to be Sutpen's only friend.  It is Quentin who attempts to make sense of Sutpen's story, with help from his Canadian roommate, Shreve, and Sutpen's own son, Henry.<br />Absalom, Absalom! is the story of the creation of the myth of Thomas Sutpen.  The novel is told by a variety of narrators at a variety of times.  Untangling these various narratives will be the primary difficulty for any reader, just as it is for Quentin and Shreve.  Yet, it is the use of these varying, conflicting narratives that gives this novel its power.  Were it told in a simple and linear style its tremendous emotional impact, coupled with the sense of a Faulkerian decaying South, would cause it to be far too melodramatic, perhaps even Gothic.  There are, however, holes and spaces in this narrative that force the reader to participate in the anguish of its revelations.<br />For most readers, Absalom, Absalom's greatest hurdle is that so much of what is related is only inferred or invented.  Some critics have even gone so far as to say that many points of the narrative are, in fact,unknowable.<br />As in many of Faulkner's novels, the key developments are introduced in bits and pieces, fragments, suppositions or brief glances.  The reader is thus put into much the same position as Shreve, who remains somewhat of the skeptic, lacking Quentin's intimate connection to both the Sutpen saga and the old South.<br />The thematic heart of the novel is mankind's ability to rewrite history and arrive at new truths.  The reader must, therefore, avoid both Sutpen's and Quentin's mistakes.  This is just a part of the genius of Faulkner.  His novels, while not the most linear or the most accessible, allow both his characters and his readers, even modern ones, to discover new views and truths about life and mankind.	2000-10-05
2258472:US	50718004	R1OY8X2M9KCD4P	0618101365	658159771	Interpreter of Maladies	Books	3	4	9	N	N	Some Good, Some Okay, None Great	The stories that comprise Interpreter of Maladies have a common thread, albeit a loose one:  the uselessness of the west and the emptiness of glamour.  Lahiri, whose parents were born in India, is herself, wholly a product of the West.  Born in London and raised in New England, she now lives in that most glamorous of all cities, New York.  So, it is not surprising that the majority of Lahiri's characters share a similar background with the author:  Most have relatives in India but they, themselves, live in the northeastern United States.  They prefer Mahler to Ravi Shanker and New England pot roast to chicken Tandoori.<br />Not all of Lahiri's characters are Bengali or even Indian, but all are definitely typical upper-middle class suburbanites.  They work in offices, have affairs and spend their disposable income in high-end stores.  If they are married, their marriage is troubled; if they have children, their children are troubled.  Most of all, the people in book suffer from a lack of ritual in their lives.  They are, if anything, too much a product of the American culture they have come to embrace.<br />Some of these stories succeed and some of them fail.  When they fail, it is because the characters have, perhaps, become a little too westernized; they tend to get bogged down in the angst that characterizes so many upper-middle class lives today.  Their lives and personalities are flat; they have no sharp edges to interfere.  The stories that succeed are those whose characters live on the fringes; the precocious boy from &quot;Sexy,&quot; or the title character of the story &quot;Mrs. Sen's.&quot;<br />While most people have grown tired of the stereotypical Indian convenience store owner, it would have been nice, as well as more realistic, to have seen a few struggling-to-survive characters alongside these economically successful Yuppies.  As it is, the stories, although written in elegant prose, lack emotional depth and flavor.  They seem to just fall flat.  These people may suffer, but they suffer in such a way that our response is not much more emotional than an occasional yawn.<br />The two stories that do come closest to expressing the anguish of real life are &quot;A Real Durwan&quot; and &quot;The Treatment of Bibi Haldar.&quot;  Those stories, however, are set in India, and, compared to the others, seem almost like parables.<br />Lahiri writes in straightforward, precise prose and provides a Joycean documentation of detail that, in the best stories takes on profound symbolism or provides quiet amusement.  In the some of the stories, however, she lets a note of self-consciousness or tired sentiment creep in and ends these stories with a cliche, such as &quot; they wept together, for the things they now knew.&quot;  Most of the stories were apparently crafted in a workshop and, unfortunately, the lack of originality shows it.  Lahiri should know by now that concrete details and implied emotion always win out over declarative statements such as the above.<br />Although Lahiri's prose style is far different than Arundhati Roy's, both authors seem to be suffering from a case of style-over-substance.  It will be interesting to see what both do in the future.	2000-10-05
2259474:US	50718004	R3NCC52GWB99A0	0801484669	361168105	What Is It Then between Us?: Traditions of Love in American Poetry (Oxford World's Classics (Paperback))	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Could Have Been, Should Have Been, But Isn't	In this extremely interesting book, Selinger argues that love is not an occasional subject for American poets, but is, in fact, the very heart and soul of American poetry.  He even traces a line from Winthrop's &quot;A Modell of Christian Charity,&quot; to the poetry of James Merrill, demarcating differing ideas of love and poetics along the way and arguing that the two strains of love--Petrachian and Protestant--both struggle within American poetry.<br />Selinger begins by asserting, &quot;since no one before me has put together a book of American poetry of love, either a critical study or an anthology, I have no monolith to undermine, no canon to shoot down.&quot;  In essence, he has no bone to pick and is simply concerned with the close readings of the poems and his own very interesting claim.<br />Selinger is definitely at his best when he engages in intimate readings, as when he chides Emerson for being &quot;to self-ironic and New Englandly proper,&quot; or when he spends time explicating the fifth section of Whitman's &quot;Song of Myself,&quot; in which &quot;Whitman pivots from mystical insights to home truths,&quot; a shift, he says that was engendered by &quot;a mention of love.&quot;<br />It is when Selinger moves away from his reading of the poems that his book ceases to be about poetics and patterns and begins to literalize the &quot;lessons&quot; of the poems via vague references to psychoanalysis.<br />Selinger uses the poems as little lessons in love and then substantiates his claims with an often intrusive and unnecessary gallery of Gallic critics:  Derrida, Barthes, Kristeva, Beauvoir.  Then poems then become psychological and ideological love lessons:  wounds and reparations, self versus other, male versus female, etc.  Reading the poems as such, their successes and failures do not hinge upon the language they use or even their artistry, but upon how well the poems help to create &quot;an America of Love.&quot; <br />Selinger also fails to distinguish between Love and love; the philosophical idea which, in America is inextricably bound up with the ideas of eros, agape and carritas, and the love that exists between two people.  This lack of distinction would presume that the private and the poetic are always political and that American poems are no more than the autobiographies of lovers and political manifestos.<br />Selinger's interest lies more in the objects of the poet's love than in the poems, themselves.  His chapter on Creeley and Lowell is more about the poets' relationships with their wives and lovers than it is about their poetry.  Selinger even admits as much when he says, &quot;In my reading of Creeley I have not, I realize, attended to questions of composition as much as the poet would like.&quot;  That sentence is appended with a quotation from Creeley, himself: &quot;Some concerns have been persistent, e.g., the terms of marriage, relations of men and women, sense of isolation...But I have never...begun with any sense of 'subject,' since the point I wish to make is that I am writing.&quot;  The writing, however, is what Selinger eschews when discussing poetry.  &quot;To turn the beloved into a poem,&quot; Selinger claims in his chapter on Adrienne Rich, &quot;does a certain violence to her sovereignty of self.&quot;<br />What Selinger fails to do is to accept the poems on their own terms.  When he struggles through Mina Loy's harrowing Songs to Johannes, he flips back and forth between considering the &quot;I&quot; of the poem a persona and then Loy, herself, alternately finding the poem both &quot;successful&quot; and &quot;troubled.&quot;  Here, Selinger uses Kristeva's analysis to explain Loy's unwillingness to reconcile the figures in the poem, but this unwillingness is never considered an aesthetic choice, as it should have been, but the inevitable working out of personal difficulties on the page.<br />Poetry is a theory in and of itself.  When an author composes poetry, he is theorizingabout the world or about ideas, finding metaphors and similes and struggling to find the words with which to describe his vision and revision of the world.  Poetry is then philosophy, psychology and literary theory.  Too often, though, poetry is not allowed to escape from the limitation of its historical periodicity or the personal lives of its practitioners.  Conversely, critics also find anachronistic attributes in poems in order to legitimize the poet through a contemporary idea or politic.  This, of course, implies that what is contemporary is best; that American love poetry has been undergoing a progressive evolution.  It implies that what we know about love today is more sophisticated than what poets knew and wrote decades ago.<br />Selinger's final chapter is on James Merrill and it is in this chapter that he comes closest to what poetry really is.  His obvious respect and love for Merrill's poetry allows him to read it more carefully and more like pure poetry.  Here there is more care with his ideas that American ideas of love are played out in American poetry and he is careful to distinguish between person and poem.  Had he only been content to read the other poets with such an open mind, he would have written a thoroughly fascinating book on the limits of American love as engaged in American poetry.  As it stands, the book does a disservice to poets who, like Emily Dickinson, deserves true readings of their poetry and not psychological examinations of their sexuality, marriageability or personal life.	2000-10-04
2259631:US	50718004	RVEU21FII2B4S	0271017333	375355308	Charlotte Perkins Gilman's “The Yellow Wall-paper” and the History of Its Publication and Reception: A Critical Edition and Documentary Casebook (Penn State Series in the History of the Book)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Authoritative	This slender casebook of an academic search represents the first authoritative text of Charlotte Perkins Gilman's The Yellow Wall-Paper since it was originally published in 1892.  It includes book reviews and excerpts of literary and social commentaries that reflect the story's critical reception; it publishes lists of editorial emendations and variants of the story in important editions since 1892 and it gives a listing of textual sources for more than one hundred reprintings of the story in anthologies and textbooks.<br />The enterprise, itself, deserves recognition for its prodigious and painstaking scholarship and meticulous editing.  A product of an undergraduate course on scholarly editing, Julie Bates Dock gave her class a &quot;simple collation exercise&quot; on Gilman's The Yellow Wall-Paper.  Students and teacher alike became more and more enthused as they searched for relationships among various editions of the story.  This enthusiasm resulted in a collaborative publication by Julie Bates Dock and three of her students.<br />In a chapter entitled The Legend of The Yellow Wall-Paper, Dock not only recounts how the story has become one of literature's perennial bestsellers, but also warn us that &quot;in its twenty-five-year odyssey of rediscovery by literary critics...the story has picked up along the way an assortment of blemishes and distortions, from textual anomalies to skewed accounts of its publication history to misinformation about its contemporary reception.&quot;  This should be enough to make any academic want to research its history.<br />The evidence of casual distortions that change the import of original texts as shown in the present case emphasizes the importance of textual criticism and traditional modes of criticism.  Dock says, &quot;...the use of documents is affected by critical trends and by critics' biases and expectations...The feminist critics of the early 1970s, intent on establishing women authors in the American literary canon,had a stake in portraying the story as a victimized piece of literature.  The notion that Gilman suffered condemnation from editors and readers outside the story tidily echoed the narrator's victimization within the story.&quot;  Dock then goes on to cite two examples where major feminist critics came to unexamined and hasty conclusions about the publication of the story.<br />Dock also provides evidence to argue that omission of a few words distorts Gilman's focus.  For example, the words, &quot;in marriage,&quot; in the sentence, &quot;John laughs at me, of course, but one expects that (in marriage).&quot;  Gilman was against the institution of marriage, but not necessarily against men in general!<br />Legends that Gilman had to struggle to get her story published, that most readers thought of it as a &quot;ghost story,&quot; that it received an especially distasteful reception from the male medical community are also put to rest, as evidence simply does not support these beliefs.<br />Dock also points out discrepancies in Gioman's own accounts as well, such as her inaccurate and varying dates and titles as well as her claim that Dr. Silas Weir Mitchell, her own physician, altered his treatment of neurasthenia after reading The Yellow Wall-Paper.  This is, as Dock points out, a case of &quot;he says/she says conundrums.&quot;<br />The book is wonderfully embellished with photographs of Charlotte Perkins Stetson, W.D. Howells, Horace E. Scudder and Dr. Silas Weir Mitchell, as well as with other visuals.<br />The book also cites interesting excerpts from Gilman's autobiography, The Living of Charlotte Perkins Gilman's Correspondence.  It explains or compiles painstaking commentaries on textual matters, selection of copy, publication history, authorial practice and preference, editorial emendations and many other publication matters as well as reviews of the story which appeared in various magazines.  The Appendix provides a history of the printing of The Yellow Wall-Paper from 1892 until 1997.<br />This is a scholarly book, to be sure, but it is one that is also extremely interesting.  In addition to learning the history of The Yellow Wall-Paper, we also learn much about Gilman's motivations, her aesthetics of writing and her own views on both marriage and men.	2000-10-04
2259974:US	50718004	R334NI85QBAL9Z	0292790716	736668599	A World for Julius: A Novel (Texan Pan American Series)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Sensitive and Beautiful	&quot;Julius was born in a mansion on Salaverry Avenue, directly across from the old San Felipe Hippodrome.&quot;  Life-sized Disney characters and cowboy movie heroes romp across the walls of his nursery.  Out in the carriage house, his great-grandfather's ornate, moldering carriage takes him on imaginary adventures.  All though, is not as idyllic as it would seem.<br />Julius's father is dead, and his beautiful young mother passes through her children's lives like an ephemeral shooting star.  Despite the soft shelter of family and money, hard realities overshadow Julius's expanding world, just as the rugged Andes loom not far from his home in Lima, Peru.<br />This rich and lyrically-textured novel, first published in 1970 as Un mundo para Julius, opened new territory in Latin American literature with its focus on the social elite of Peru.  A member of that elite, Bryce Echenique incisively charts the decline of an influential, centuries-old aristocratic family who become nouveaux riches with the invasion of foreign capital in the 1950s.  A World for Julius, Echenique's first novel, marked the first appearance in English of this important Peruvian writer, whose Latin American postmodern fiction has already won critical acclaim throughout the Spanish-speaking world.	2000-10-04
2259977:US	50718004	RYWWLEYY2NBV4	0374518157	201732988	Conversation in the Cathedral (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	5	35	37	N	N	One Of Vargas Llosa's Most Impressive	Conversation in the Cathedral is a novel of power and politics in 1950s Peru.  Two of the main characters meet in an inexpensive restaurant (the &quot;cathedral&quot; of the title) and spend the afternoon conversing about the past.  The novel is, for the most part, encapsulated within their conversation, although we are occasionally reminded of some events accessible only to the omniscient narrator.<br />While somewhat unusual, the structure of Conversation in the Cathedral is most impressive.  The vast bulk of the book is dialogue, and a common occurrence is for different dialogues to be interlaced at the level of the sentence with no overt marking in a kind of point and counterpoint.  There also exists an hierarchical layering, with events described in individual conversations recounted within the meta-conversation that spans the entire novel.<br />The narrative includes many jumps in time, with significant events that take place in the middle of the story often not being recounted until near the end of the book.  The result is an almost &quot;fractal&quot; narrative, but one that is singularly impressive.<br />Despite its somewhat complicated structure, Conversation in the Cathedral has an irresistible feeling of movement and once readers become used to Vargas Llosa's sophisticated style, the book becomes more than engrossing.  Conversation in the Cathedral also presents the clearest picture of exactly how a Latin American military dictatorship actually works.<br />While all of Vargas Llosa's books rate five stars, Conversation in the Cathedral is certainly his most impressive.	2000-10-04
2260484:US	50718004	R7XNZXIFD1DGG	0679720200	882163178	The Stranger	Books	4	69	79	N	N	The First Of the Absurds	The Stranger was the first novel of Camus' labeled &quot;absurd,&quot; and it defines Camus for most Americans.  The plot is quite simple, with none of the diversions common in popular literature.  The main character is not a hero, has no &quot;true&quot; love affair and the pursuit of money and power never enters the story.  The Stranger is an honest atheist, waiting for life to happen.<br />The title l'Etranger, has been poorly translated.  The U.S. title, The Stranger, implies that the main character, Meursault, has been viewed as a &quot;strange&quot; or &quot;odd&quot; person for some time.  The other possible meaning is that no one knows him.  Meursault is a stranger even to those who think they know him.  These definitions do not seem adequate.  The U.K. title, The Outsider, only serves to confuse readers even more.<br />Meursault is the archetype of a middle-class man.  He works as a clerk, rents an apartment and draws no attention to himself.  He is, if anything, very ordinary.  Meusault might even be boring.  He lacks deep convictions and passion.  If he is estranged from any aspect of French society, it is religion--he does not believe in the symbols and the rituals of faith.<br />Estranged?  &quot;Cela m'est égal.&quot;<br />Along with the title, Camus took care in naming the main character.  Meursault's name is symbolic of the Mediteranean sea.  Mer mean &quot;sea&quot; and soliel is French for &quot;sun.&quot;  The sea and the sun meet at the beach, where Meursault's defining actions occur.<br />Meusault is an anti-hero.  His only redeeming quality is his honesty, no matter how absurd.  In existential terms, he is &quot;authentic&quot; to himself.  Meusault does not believe in God, but he cannot lie because he is true to himself.  This inability to falsify empathy ultimately condemns him.  Meursault has faith only in what he, himself, can see or experience with his other senses.  He is not a philosopher, a theologian or a deep thinker.  Meursault exists as he is, not trying to be anything more or less than himself.<br />Why did Camus' readers recognize Meursault as a plausible character?  After two World Wars and much suffering, many people came to live life much as Meursault does.  Or at least they tried to do so.  These people lost the will to do more than exist.  There was no hope and no desire.  The only goal for many people was simple survival.  Even then, the survival seemed empty and hollow.  We learn how empty Meursault's existence is through his relationships.  He is not close to his mother; we learn he does not cry at her funeral.  He does not seem close to his lover, Marie Cardona.  Of her, Meursault states, &quot;To me, she was only Marie.&quot;  There is no passion is Meursault's words or in his life.<br />What sets Camus apart from many existentialists and modern philosophers in general is his acceptance of contradiction.  Yes, Camus wrote, life is absurd and death renders life meaningless--for the individual.  But mankind and its societies are larger than any one individual person.	2000-10-03
2260510:US	50718004	R1YWAHZPVTLPKW	0374111197	481105340	Beowulf: A New Verse Translation	Books	5	14	19	N	N	Fascinating and Remarkable	Today, only about 30,000 lines of Anglo-Saxon verse are in existence.  Approximately 10 percent of this is formed by the 3,182 lines of the remarkable epic poem, Beowulf.  Beowulf tells the story of a hero by the same name and of his battles against supernatural creatures as well as containing many digressions into other stories and historical events.<br />As books were rare and valuable items in Anglo-Saxon times and much of the population was illiterate, the storyteller became both an entertainer and a memory bank for the kingdom's history.  These storytellers were repositories of the tales the first settlers brought with them from their continental homelands, the legends of Germanic heroes and heroines whose behavior served as both example and warning.<br />Although it is possible that there existed an earlier manuscript of Beowulf than that which now survives, the poem is the product of a society that expected to hear poetry and not read it.  It was no doubt intoned or chanted, probably to the accompaniment of a lyre or a harp.<br />Beowulf is set in Denmark and Sweden during the sixth century.  Most of the action takes place in Geatland) part of Sweden south of Lake Vättern) and the Danish island of Sjaelland (Zealand).  Frequent digressions in the poem do extend its geography.<br />Beowulf's encounter with Grendel takes place in King Hrothgar's hall of Heorot, most probably at Lejre on the Danish island of Sjaelland.  Archaeologists working at Lejre have found traces of a series of great halls of exceptional size and splendor which date from the fifth or sixth century (the time in which Beowulf is set) and continue well into the &quot;Viking Age.&quot;  One of those halls may well have been the Heorot of Beowulf.<br />There is no evidence that Beowulf, himself, ever really existed, although it seems there were other analogous tales that provided the Beowulf poet with his inspiration for the character.  The poet obviously had a deep knowledge of Germanic history; the fairy tale figure of Beowulf is fitted into both an existing place and a precise historical context.  Many then-extant historical characters are mentioned in the poem:  Hygelac, the king of the Geats, Hrothgar, Ongentheow, Haethcyn, Onela and Heardred were all historical characters that are mentioned in Beowulf and help to us to place it most accurately, regarding time.<br />The characters in the poem no doubt had a special interest to the Anglo-Saxon audience and some also appear in other poems as well.  One such character is Hengest, who succeeds Hnaef as leader of the Half-Danes.  It is almost certain that Hengest was the same Hengest who came to England with Horsa in 449 A.D. at the invitation of King Vortigern to fight the Picts.  This same Hengest eventually founded the Kingdom of Kent and, as the first recorded settler in England, would have been of tremendous interest to later Anglo-Saxon audiences.<br />We will probably never know exactly where the poem was composed.  It survives in only one manuscript dating to about 1000 A.D. and there is no other reference to the hero in any other source.  Although we now think of Beowulf as a great masterpiece, it seems the Anglo-Saxons did not see it this way.  To them, Beowulf was no doubt just another weird and wonderful monster story.<br />The author of Beowulf, like most other Anglo-Saxon poets, is unknown.  It could have been composed by a poet working at court or it could have been a poet-monk who was repsonsible for the creation; the preferred alternative depends on how the function of Christianity is viewed within the body of the poem.<br />The difficult questions of date and place of composition are best considered together.  It is clear that the poem could not have been composed prior to 521 A.D. because of the reference to the death of Hygelac, and not before 580 A.D., as Beowulf's death would have taken place around this time.  It certainly could not have been composed after 1000 A.D., as this is the date of the Beowulf manuscript.  Many critics have argued in favor of the seventh century on the grounds that the Beowulf poet alludes to and expects his audience to be familiar with.<br />Most scholars agree that Beowulf was composed in one of three places:  Northumbria, during the Age of Bede, Mercia during the reign of King Offa or seventh-century East Anglia.  Because of the Sutton Hoo discovery, the East Anglia location seems the most likely choice today.  Not only was the ship burial uncannily similar to the burials of Scyid and Beowulf, but the grave goods revealed the East Anglican court of the Wuffingas to be unexpectedly sophisticated and closely linked to the Swedish royal house at Uppsala.  The scholar Howell Chickering asked, &quot;Was it through the early East Anglican court that detailed knowledge of Scandinavian tribal history in Beowulf became available in England?&quot;  The poem just might have been a way of telling East Anglicans something of their semi-historical, semi-legendary Scandinavian ancestors.  A case can be made for believing that the poem was composed in Suffolk, at the palace of Rendlesham, within living memory of the great ship burial in 625 A.D.	2000-10-03
2260527:US	50718004	R2CY9ID1KGI1IB	0140481052	549324871	The Just (Penguin plays)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Justice Without Violence	The Just is a play based upon real events.  To convey his concept of moral revolutionaries, Camus fictionalized the 1905 Moscow assassination of Grand Duke Sergei Alexandrovitch, the uncle of Czar Nicholas II.<br />The assassin, in real life and in the play, is a man named Kaliayev.  Camus' characterization is of a man dedicated to political change, but not through blind or senseless violence.  Camus never endorsed or accepted the need for violence against &quot;civilians&quot; during a revolution, so he endows his characters with the same value.  The small cell to which Kaliayev belongs in the play in dedicated to &quot;justice* for the Russian people.  They see their actions as self-sacrifice.<br />At the start of the play, Kaliayev is selected to throw the bomb that will assassinate the Grand Duke.  His first attempt ends in what might be considered failure--Kaliayev does not throw the bomb.  The Duke was with his niece and nephew.  Kaliayev cannot harm innocent children, and the group agrees with his decision. Camus' account is, according to most, historically accurate; the real Kaliayev was not interested in harming those whom he considered to be innocent.<br />Breaking with history, Camus introduces a fictional character to illustrate the wrongs of the Communist Party.  The character of Stepan Federov is a victim of the Czarist state.  Due to his experiences under the Czar's legal system, he has become an extremist.  Camus illustrates that some revolutionaries are acting upon emotion, not concern for their fellow citizens.  Stepan tells the other terrorists that he would have killed children &quot;if the organization commanded it.&quot;<br />Stepan is the archetype of a Stalinist--the type of supporter of the Soviet Union that prevented Camus from supporting the Communist Party.  Camus was a socialist and supported the idea of change, but not the idea that any means can be justified by the anticipated ends.  What happens when a revolution fails?  The innocentdie for nothing, according to Camus.<br />In the play, Kaliayev succeeds and assassinates the Grand Duke on the third try.  The Grand Duchess Ella, sister of the Empress Alexandra, visits Kaliayev in prison; she is a kind and compassionate person.  Again, Camus' account is based upon history.  The Duchess even considers sparing the assassin's life.  Kaliayev tells her that he wants to die--to avoid being a &quot;murderer.&quot;  At this moment in the play, Kaliayev adheres to basic existential ethics...he accepts the consequences of his actions.<br />Camus even ends the play with another insult to communists.  Dora, a woman, is selected for the next bombing.  Historically, women were not allowed to be active in most revolutionary movements, not even the French Resistance.  Camus always wondered why &quot;the people&quot; never included women, although it is no wonder, considering how difficult were his own relationships with the women in his life.<br />The Just constitutes the third and final of Camus' works known as The Revolts; the first was the novel, Le Peste, or The Plague and the third, the essay, L'Homme Révolté, or The Rebel.	2000-10-03
2260669:US	50718004	R100Z3AWAI31BI	2266083260	827689795	Les Fleurs Du Mal (Pocket Classics) (French Edition)	Books	5	28	30	N	N	The Evocative Magic of Images and Sounds	As both poet and critic, Baudelaire stands in relation to French and European poetry as Gustave Flaubert and Edouard Manet do to fiction and painting; as a crucial link between Romanticism and modernism and as a supreme example, in both his life and work, of what it means to be a modern artist.  His catalytic influence was recognized in the nineteenth century by Rimbaud, Verlaine, Mallarmé and Swinburne and, in the twentieth century by Valèry, Rilke and T.S. Eliot.<br />Baudelaire's poetic masterpiece, the 1861 edition of Les Fleurs du mal (Flowers of Evil) consists of 126 poems arranged in six sections of varying length.  Baudelaire always insisted that the collection was not a &quot;simple album&quot; but had &quot;a beginning and an end,&quot; each poem revealing its full meaning only when read in relation to the others within the &quot;singular framework&quot; in which it is placed.  A prefatory poem makes it clear that Baudelaire's concern is with the general human predicament of which his own is representative.  The collection may best be read in the light of the concluding poem, Le Voyage, as a journey through self and society in search of some impossible satisfaction that forever eludes the traveler.<br />The first section, entitled Spleen et idéal, opens with a series of poems that dramatize contrasting views of art, beauty and the artist, who is depicted alternately as martyr, visionary, performer, pariah and fool.  <br />The focus then shifts to sexual and romantic love, with the first-person narrator of the poems oscillating between extremes of ecstasy (idèal) and anguish (spleen) as he attempts to find fulfillment through a succession of women whom it is possible, if simplistic, to identify with Jeanne Duval, Apollonie Sabatier and Marie Daubrun. <br />Each set of love poems describes an erotic cycle that leads from intoxication through conflict and revulsion to an eventual ambivalent tranquility born of memory and the transmutation of suffering into art.  Yet the attempt to find plentitude through love comes in the end to nothing, and Spleen et idèal ends with a sequence of anguished poems, several of them entitled Spleen, in which the self is shown imprisoned within itself with only the certainty of suffering and death before it.<br />The second section, Tableaux parisiens, was added to the 1861 edition and describes a 24-hour cycle in the life of the city of Paris through which the Baudelairean traveler, now metamorphosed into a flaneru, moves in quest of deliverance from the miseries of self, only to find, at every twist and turn, images of suffering and isolation that remind him all too pertinently of his own.  This section includes some of Baudelaire's greatest poems, most notably Le Cygne, where the memory of a swan stranded in total dereliction near the Louvre becomes a symbol of an existential condition of loss and exile transcending time and space.  <br />Having gone through the city forever meeting himself, the traveler turns, in the much shorter sections that follow, successively to drink (Le Vin), sexual depravity (Fleurs du mal), and satanism (Rèvoltè) in quest of the elusive ideal.  His quest is predictably to no avail for, as the final section, entitled La Mort, reveals, his journey is an everlasting, open-ended odyssey that, continuing beyond death, will take him into the depths of the unknown, always in pursuit of the new, which, by definition, must forever elude him.<br />In pursuit of an &quot;evocative magic&quot; of images and sounds, his blending of intellect and feeling, irony and lyricism, and his deliberate eschewal of rhetoric utterance, Baudelaire moved decisively away from the Romantic poetry of statement and emotion to the modern poetry of symbol and suggestion.  He was, said his disciple Jules Laforgue, the first poet to write of Paris as one condemned to live day to day in the city, his greatest originality being, as Verlaine wrote as early as 1865, to &quot;represent powerfully and essentially modern man&quot; in all his physical, psychological and moral complexity.  Baudelaire is a pivotal figure in European literature and thought, and his influence on modern poetry has been immense.	2000-10-03
2261069:US	50718004	RF48K7GISYHL1	0679733736	126207643	The Myth of Sisyphus and Other Essays	Books	5	544	558	N	N	The Struggle Is Enough	The collection of stories published as Le Mythe de Sisyphe in 1942 was the second of the absurds.  The work has been cited by critics as refined and carefully crafted.  The collection stands as more literature than philosophy.  Camus spent at least five years writing and editing the work.  The polish is clear with the very first sentence:  &quot;There is only one really serious philosophical problem, and that is suicide.&quot;<br />According to Camus, suicide was a sign that one lacked the strength to face &quot;nothing.&quot;  Life is an adventure without final meaning, but still, in Camus' eyes, worth experiencing.  Since there is nothing else, life should be lived to its fullest and we should derive meaning from our very existence.  For Camus, people were what gave life meaning.  However, in the moments following the realization that one will die, that one's descendants will die...in fact, that the earth will die, one senses a deep anxiety.  And, as an atheist, Camus doubted meaning beyond this life.<br />&quot;A world which can be explained, even through bad reasoning, is a familiar one.  On the other hand, in a world suddenly devoid of illusion and light, man feels like a stranger.&quot;  Isolated from any logic, without an easy explanation for why one exists, there occurs what some call &quot;existential angst.&quot;  While Camus did not use the phrase, it adequately describes the sensation.  Even existentialists of faith struggle with creation, wondering why humanity exists when a Creator would not need mankind.  Merely wanting to create something seems like a curious reason to create life.  So, even for those of faith, the initial creation can be puzzling.<br />How does one exist without any given purpose or meaning?  How does one develop meaning?  Le Mythe de Sisyphe addresses this directly in the retelling of the famous tale.  Considering the plight of Sisyphus, condemned to roll a stone up a mountain knowing the stone will roll down yet again, it is easyto declare his existence absurd and without hope.  It would be easy to believe Sisyphus might prefer death.  But in Camus' myth, he does not.<br />&quot;Living the absurd...means a total lack of hope (which is not the same as despair), a permanent reflection (which is not the same as renunciation), and a conscious dissatisfaction (which is not the same as juvenile anxiety).<br />For Camus, Sisyphus is the ultimate absurd hero.  He was sentenced for the crime of loving life too much; he defied the gods and fought death.  The gods thought they found a perfect form of torture for Sisyphus.  He would constantly hope for success, that the stone would remain at the top of the mountain.  This, the gods thought, would forever frustrate him.<br />Yet, defying the gods yet again, Sisyphus is without hope.  He abandons any illusion that he might succeed at the assigned task.  Once he does so, Camus considers him a hero in the fullest sense of the word.  Sisyphus begins to view his ability to do the task again and again--to endure the punishment--as a form of victory.<br />&quot;The struggle itself towards the heights is enough to fill a man's heart. We have to imagine Sisyphus happy.&quot;	2000-10-03
2261237:US	50718004	R244KN42OTWTQV	0679720227	169376079	The Fall	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Camus' Written Confession	The Fall is one of the best explorations of a single character in existence.  It is an incredible character study in search of a story.<br />The Fall was Albert Camus' last completed novel.  On the surface, it is a simple narrative as Jean-Baptiste Clamence recounts the events from the last few years of his life.  On a much deeper level, however, The Fall is Camus' written confession.  The work is filled with Camus' self-loathing and criticisms of various persons and beliefs.  More than any previous work, The Fall reveals the real Camus.<br />Camus tended to use Algerian settings for much of his work, or he would favor symbols of his Algerian youth, such as the sun and the open sea.  The Fall breaks with Camus' earlier habits; the narrative is set primarily in Amsterdam, not in Algeria or France.  The &quot;action&quot; is at night, not under the blazing sun.  The water is not the open sea, but controlled rivers.  Any energy and optimism of the Mediterranean is surrendered to the sterile cold of a northern European city.  Camus' despair is the true setting.<br />Jean-Baptiste Clamence, the novel's first-person narrator, explains his life and exile in Amsterdam to readers as if talking to someone at a bar.  Jean-Baptiste's highly critical view of himself and life reflect a loss of faith in human nature and &quot;justice.&quot;  Camus' chosen profession for Jean-Baptiste, a lawyer, brings attention to his narrator's views on justice and morality.  Clamence is a former lawyer from Paris, living in personal exile due to self-hatred.  In effect, Jean-Baptiste has sentenced himself to the worst fate he could imagine...isolation.<br />Clamence is punishing himself for cowardice, the worst of possible crimes.  As with Sartre, Camus viewed a failure to act as a choice to surrender.  While The Plague is a story of action against the odds, The Fall is as tale of a man's guilt for a failure to act.  <br />Jean-Paul Sartre wrote, one might assume reluctantly, considering The Rebel's chilly reception, that The Fall was Camus' greatest work of fiction.  Sartre and other critics appreciated the depth of character exhibited in The Fall.  It is also likely they enjoyed the spectacle they thought they saw when Camus placed himself before the world.	2000-10-03
2261762:US	50718004	R11YZ4LFR4ROL8	0679733841	225572541	The Rebel: An Essay on Man in Revolt	Books	4	27	30	N	N	The Most Comprehensive of Camus' Beliefs	Critics of Albert Camus consider L'Homme Révolté, or The Rebel to one of Camus' most important non-fiction works.  While Le Mythe de Sisyphe is far more polished, The Rebel is the most comprehensive exploration of Camus' beliefs.  There are weaknesses in The Rebel, as in most rhetorical works, but the public found the work accessible and, as a result, made it a bestseller.<br />The book begins as an essay &quot;Remarque sur la révolté,&quot; written in 1945.  This &quot;Commentary on Revolt&quot; attempted to explain Camus' definition of the word, &quot;revolt.&quot;  In the essay, Camus' explains that a revolt is not the same as a &quot;revolution.&quot;  Camus' lexicon define &quot;revolt&quot; as a peaceful, evolutionary process.  He had hoped that mankind would evolve toward improved societies.  In his ideal, socialism is the result of a natural historical process that does require effort and leadership, but not violence.<br />&quot;Remarque sur la révolt&quot; begins with a civil servant refusing an order.  For Camus, revolt begins with a single person refusing an immoral choice.  Laws and rule are not defensible for Camus unless they are meant to help society at all levels.  The civil servant in the opening parable is an existential hero, though Camus would have rejected such a label.  The bureaucrat makes a decision based not upon what is easiest for him but what is best for him and society as a whole.  This man's revolt is resistance, not violence.<br />Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel's works are the primary target of The Rebel.  While not a perfect treatment of Hegel, Camus argues that Hegel's works glorified the state and power over personal morality and social ethics.  Worse, according to Camus, Marxism co-opts Hegel and extends his theories to allow any means to an end.  In Marxism, as embodied by the Soviet Union and its Communist Party, the state is always &quot;right.&quot;  Humanism and equality were important to Camus, not an artificial organization.<br />Camus further offended some leftists by opposing what he considered a trend toward nihilism in European thought.  Life was &quot;meaningless&quot; for Camus, but each person did have the opportunity to define a role for himself or herself in life.  Nihilism rendered living pointless, which Camus could not accept.  Mankind, by its very existence, was in the unique position of defining itself through choice.<br />Attacking Hegel, Marxism and nihilism resulted in a resounding rejection by the left.  Leftist critics hated The Rebel and described it as an act of intellectual treason.  The May 1952 issue of Les Temps Modernes featured a review of The Rebel by Francis Jeanson.  The review affected Camus deeply.  Camus found himself described as a traitor to the left and Jeanson suggested no one should be critical of progressive ideas, even when the actions of the left might be &quot;wrong.&quot;<br />The review in Les Temps Modernes marked the end of Camus' relationship with Jean-Paul Sartre.  As editor, or director, of the magazine, Sartre exercised a great deal of control.  Camus knew that Sartre must have agreed with the review at some level.  Camus was compelled to write a response to Jeanson.  In his response, Camus tried to explain his belief that the ends, or at least the goals, do not justify the means in many cases.  Sartre then published an open letter to Camus.  Sartre, himself, wrote nineteen pages, including some very personal attacks.  As a result, the friendship was over forever.  <br />While not the primary work cited, the 1957 Nobel Prize for Literature was awarded to Camus in part due to The Rebel.	2000-10-03
2261847:US	50718004	R2TJUXF38JK1ZI	0933429088	870794215	Little Poems in Prose	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Exquisite Miniatures	Baudelaire's Petite Poèmes en prose was published posthumously in 1869 and was later, as intended by the author, entitled Le Spleen de Paris.  Baudelaire did not live long enough to bring these poems together in a single volume, but it is clear from his correspondence that the work he envisaged was both a continuation of, and a radical departure from, Les Fleurs du mal.  <br />Some of the texts may be regarded as authentic poems in prose, while others are closer to exquisite miniature prose narratives.  The setting is primarily urban, with the focus on crowds and the suffering lives they contain:  a broken-down street acrobat (Le Vieux Satimbanque), a hapless street trader (Le Mauvais Vitrier), the poor staring at the wealthy in their opulent cafés (Le Vieux des pauvres), the deranged (Mademoisele Bistouri) and the derelict (Assommons les pauvres!), and, in the final text (Les Bon Chiens), the pariah dogs that scurry and scavenge through the streets of Brussels.  <br />Not only is the subject matter of the prose poems essentially urban, but the form itself, &quot;musical but without rhythm and rhyme, both supple and staccato,&quot; is said to derive from &quot;frequent contact with enormous cities, from the junction of their innumerable connections.&quot;<br />In its deliberate fragmentation and its merging of the lyrical with the sardonic, Le Spleen de Paris may be regarded as one of the earliest and most successful examples of a specifically urban writing, the textual equivalent of the city scenes of the Impressionists, embodying in its poetics of sudden and disorienting encounter that ambiguous &quot;heroism of modern life&quot; that Baudelaire celebrated in his art criticism.	2000-10-03
2261916:US	50718004	R2T0OMPQ4Y3MM0	0691009597	543147072	Nabokov's Pale Fire: The Magic of Artistic Discovery	Books	5	38	39	N	N	Nabokov's Sweet Madness	For Nabokov, nothing was ever as simple as it seemed.  In fact, &quot;simple&quot; and &quot;sincere&quot; were two adjectives that he despised.  While teaching at Wellesley College and later at Cornell, Nabokov would give a low mark to any student who used the words, &quot;simple&quot; and &quot;sincere&quot; in a paper.<br />Nabokov was a writer who celebrated the complexities in life.  He looked for unexpected meanings in even the most banal details of existence and the test questions he set for his students were notoriously eccentric, e.g., Describe Madame Bovary's hairdo; What sort of paper covered the walls of Anna Karenina's bedroom?   for Nabokov, God was a subtle being, but tremendously inventive and perhaps a little sly.<br />Nabokov believed that &quot;the unraveling of a riddle is the purest and most basic act of the human mind.&quot;  He probably would have loved this remarkable book, an attempt to unravel the riddles and hidden meanings Nabokov, himself, embedded in Pale Fire.<br />When Pale Fire first appeared in 1962, reviewers said, correctly, that it could be enjoyed without puzzling over its hidden meanings but that it obviously hid many levels of complexity.  In a now-famous article, Mary McCarthy called Pale Fire &quot;a jack-in-the-box, a Fabergé gem, a clockwork toy, a chess problem, an infernal machine, a trap to catch reviewers...&quot;  But she also thought it was a thing of perfect beauty, symmetry, strangeness, originality and moral truth.<br />Even on a first reading of Pale Fire, we understand that Nabokov is playing a most elaborate literary game.  Kinbote is hilariously mad, and his efforts to interpret Shade's poem as a commentary on Zemblan events can be seen as a satire of imaginative academics.<br />But Nabokov also scattered less obvious clues throughout the book.  McCarthy decided that the &quot;real&quot; author of the commentary was yet another Zemblan who is barely mentioned, V. Botkin.  And there are those who believe thatNabokov is telling us that John Shade didn't die but simply wrote the commentary under the name of Kinbote as a way of disappearing.<br />Boyd now interprets Nabokov's intentions in yet another way.  He believes that both the poem and the commentary were inspired from beyond the grave as well as by Shakespeare's many ghosts.<br />Nabokov's Pale Fire is a monument to a brilliant scholar's persistent love affair with a book and its author.  For more than three decades now, Boyd has made Pale Fire, and Nabokov, his obsession, much in the way that Nabokov, himself, was obsessed with butterflies. In 1990 and 1991, Boyd published his excellent two-volume biography of Nabokov and established himself as the world's premier Nabokovian.<br />Pale Fire, however, remained central to this thinking. When Boyd was asked to discuss Pale Fire on the Electronic Nabokov Discussion Forum, he discovered that his own views about this remarkable and original book were changing.  Those views form the heart and soul of his own vibrant and energetic work.  Even if we do not agree with all of his theories (and anything, at this point, must remain only a theory) we have to admire his scrupulous intelligence and dedication.<br />Boyd does not disdain eccentric flights of imagination.  Nor is he afraid of being thought of as obsessive.  There was a sweet madness in Nabokov, and quite obviously, Boyd has assimilated some of it, all to the good.<br />Nabokov's Pale Fire is more than a wonderful book; it is also a labor of love of the highest order.  It can only enhance your understanding and love of both Nabokov and Pale Fire, and perhaps give you some insight into Boyd, himself.	2000-10-02
2262236:US	50718004	R3NR139V6FJW8R	0807085421	698813323	Nabokov's Butterflies: Limited Edition	Books	5	21	22	N	N	It Always Came Down To Butterflies	&quot;From the age of seven, everything I felt in connection with a rectangle of framed sunlight was dominated by a single passion,&quot; wrote Valdimir Nabokov.  &quot;If my first glance of the morning was for the sun, my first thought was for the butterflies it would engender.&quot;  This was certainly an unusual way in which to view the world and one that not many readers, even those who adore Nabokov, have shared.<br />In fact, the ferocity of Nabokov's obsession with butterflies has only just begun to become clear with the publication of this gorgeous new book, a volume of heretofore unpublished and uncorrected writings on the subject of butterflies, edited by Nabokov's biographer Brian Boyd, together with Michael Pyle, an expert on butterflies.  All translations were done by Nabokov's son, Dmitri, who has lavished his time and talent on his father's work for several decades.<br />Even those of us who cannot get enough of Nabokov and cannot praise him highly enough may find more than 700 densely-printed pages on the subject of butterflies a little much.  As much as we love Nabokov, do we really want to read page after page of his highly technical descriptions of the various species of butterfly?  Are these writings really important, from a scientific viewpoint?  Is there any connection between Nabokov's passion for butterflies and his extraordinary fiction?<br />Although most people would probably answer &quot;no&quot; to the first two questions, the answer to the third is a surprisingly enthusiastic, &quot;yes.&quot;<br />In his wonderful introduction, Boyd begins to elucidate the connections between Nabokov the writer and Nabokov the lepidopterist.  We come to understand the novelist more completely and precisely by coming to understand that science that gave this unique author &quot;a sense of reality that should not be confused with modern (or postmodern) epistemological nihilism.&quot;<br />It was while dissecting and deciphering his butterflies that Nabokov came to the conclusion that the more we inquire, the more we can discover, yet the more we discover, the more we find we do not know.  The world, Nabokov says, is infinitely detailed, complex and deceptive.<br />Nabokov's important writings on butterflies are reproduced in this volume, but thankfully, in reduced form.  And other kinds of writing by Nabokov have been blended over the scientific prose, beginning with the luminous meditation on butterflies from Chapter Six of Speak, Memory.<br />The poems, memoirs, letters, diary entries, criticism and fiction that make up this beautiful volume cover a period from 1941 to 1947, when Nabokov was at his most obsessive...as far as butterflies are concerned.  This obsessiveness, however, is gorgeous to behold, as in a letter from Nabokov to Edmund Wilson about a lecture trip he made to Sweet Briar College.  &quot;The weather...was perfectly dreadful and except for a few Everes comyntas there was nothing on the wing.&quot;  It always came down to butterflies.<br />Nabokov's interest in butterflies went far beyond sorting out and naming them.  He was much more than a mere tabulator or categorizer.  There is something exquisitely metaphysical, even mystical, about his approach to butterflies, something that also tells us of his quest to plumb the depths of nature's complexity.  In his obsession, Nabokov sought to understand the sense of design that underlies the the physical world, and he also took enormous delight in the mysteries God chose to hide from human beings, leaving to them to seek them out or not.<br />As Boyd notes, Nabokov &quot;preferred the small type to the main text, the obscure to the obvious, the thrill of finding for himself what was not common knowledge.&quot;  His scientific writings overflow with minutiae, with obscure details, lovingly searched out, sorted, underlined, displayed.  This preference for the complexity of life also underscores his writings, most notably his massive commentary on Pushkin's Onegin, the gorgeous and imaginative Pale Fire and Ada, a late masterpiece in which Nabokov's penchant for complexity reached spellbinding heights.<br />While only a small percentage of readers may want to study the scientific articles in this book, their very presence operates in the most subtle of ways to remind us that Nabokov, who referred to himself as VN, was also a student &quot;of that other VN, Visible Nature.&quot;  In his magnificent fiction, Nabokov offered the world a complete view of the complexity and richness of the human spirit.  He might not have been so meticulous and so thorough were it not for his passion for the intricate world of butterflies, so beautifully on view in this book.	2000-10-02
2262325:US	50718004	R985XAXCTBVJ4	0679723420	755867934	Pale Fire	Books	5	185	193	N	N	Nabokov's Tour de Force	Pale Fire is the name of a 999-line poem in four cantos by the &quot;distinguished American poet&quot; John Shade, published posthumously in a lovingly prepared edition with a foreword and detailed commentary by the Zemblan literary scholar Charles Kinbote.  Pale Fire is also the name of the novel by Vladimir Nabokov in which the poem is written by Shade and annotated by Kinbote, who are Nabokov's creations.  The novel is actually written in the form of poem and scholarly apparatus, not omitting a thorough index.  It is a perfect and perfectly original union of form and meaning.  It is also wickedly, outrageously funny. <br />The poem itself is a complicated, beautiful, mysterious achievement.  It reveals the character of John Shade so completely and movingly that we have to keep reminding ourselves that it was actually written by Nabokov, himself.  The poem is the heart of the novel, literally and figuratively, although the commentary no doubt constitutes the most interesting reading.  Pale Fire is Shade's final work; possibly his greatest work.  It is the product of every thought and experience in a long, thoughtful life, and it also contains that entire life:  childhood, adolescence, marriage, fatherhood, old age and death.  The title refers to the &quot;pale fire of time,&quot; and is taken from a poem by Yeats and not from Shakespeare, as Kinbote confidently suggests.  Or is Nabokov simply leading us on a merry chase?  Better check Timon of Athens to be sure.<br />And Kinbote is frequently wrong in his confident suggestions in the commentary.  He identifies allusions where none exist; fails to recognize those that are actually there (he is writing his notes in a remote cabin in the Rockies and complains that he has no books to check his references), and suggests interpretations which are clearly, hilariously, wrong.  The hapless Dr. Kinbote has got it into his head that Pale Fire (the poem) is really about himself, and his commentary is an audacious attempt todemonstrate this. <br />So, almost ignoring what is actually present in the poem, he proceeds through the commentary to give a detailed history of his own life and times, often revealing far more than he really means to do.  And it turns out to be quite a good story, because Kinbote, a native of the remote northern European country of Zembla, has had quite an adventurous past.  It is only a pity that it is quite irrelevant to Shade's poem.  Kinbote just happens to be a man who doesn't do anything by halves; even the most innocuous phrase of the poem is &quot;demonstrated&quot; to be a cryptic reference to some event in Kinbote's life.  Pale Fire is nothing if it is not great fun. <br />But Pale Fire is not merely amusing and inventive.  Kinbote's commentary seems to be everything literary criticism should not be; but it is actually only an extreme, exaggerated version of what literary criticism truly is.  Kinbote attempts to rewrite Shade's poem in his own image and likeness, but this is true to a greater or lesser extent--or a more or less subtle extent--of every critic, amateur or professional. <br />Pale Fire is thus a complex, and ultimately rather touching, demonstration of the way people have of reading their lives into books and reading books into their lives, like Kinbote.  (And also, the way we have of writing our lives into books and writing books into our lives, like Shade.)  It is an affirmation of the power of literature, of the power of books to help us make sense of our lives, and of the impossibility of distinguishing precisely where art ends and life begins.  To quote John Shade: <br />          I feel I understand/            Existence, or at least a minute part/            Of my existence, only through my art,/            In terms of combinational delight;/            And if my private universe scans right,/            So does the verse of galaxies divine/            Which I suspect is an iambic line.<br />Almost every reader can remember that oneparticular novel, poem or play that seemed to have been written for him and him alone.  The one the reader took so personally, it changed his entire outlook on life and which even now he cannot discuss rationally or impartially.  Every passionate reader knows of just such a book or even books.  So, perhaps we should spare one or two sympathetic thoughts for the poor, but smitten, Dr. Kinbote even as we laugh uproariously at his well-intentioned mistakes.	2000-10-02
2262743:US	50718004	RFP08OY8AF86L	0679725229	693170972	Ada, or Ardor: A Family Chronicle	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Rich In Imagery	Ada or Ardor:  A Family Chronicle, constitutes Nabokov's largest work and his greatest use of imagery.  In fact, Ada reads very much like a wide-screen technicolor extravaganza of the sort that makes millions and millions for Hollywood producers.  To produce this kind of technicolor of gorgeousness, Nabokov both concentrates and expands on every detail he provides to the reader.  The entire first half of Ada has an extremely visual quality, with images pouring out in such profusion that the reader's mind is almost overloaded with the effort of following them all.  The natural setting of the Veen estate and Ardis Hall, itself, are extremely detailed and realistic.<br />Ada also contains all of the sexual escapades that Lolita seemed to promise but never delivered, although each one of them is essential to the story.  Almost every character in the book is involved in some sort of torrid affair.  The characters of Van and Ada, with their almost inexhaustible capacity for sexual indulgence, have their roots in the fabulous passions of the ancient pagan gods and goddesses.  The family tree which Nabokov provides for us at the beginning of the novel recalls the elaborate genealogies developed in the ancient myths, particularly of the water deities.<br />Van's prodigious sexual capacity is reminiscent of certain lecherous pagan deities.  It is his father, however, who is the greatest of all the libertines, being consumed by his almost inhuman energy.  <br />But even in this world of sexual license, many of the characters in Ada are destroyed through their indulgences.  Ada's lovers, in particular, all meet wretched ends, save for one, and many of the other characters in the book share similar fates.  It would seem that Nabokov is trying to say that casual &quot;love&quot; is just as illusory as it would seem, and that those who pursue it recklessly will ultimately be destroyed by it.<br />Nabokov's exquisite pictorial detail in Ada creates the atmosphere of a Hollywood movie production while constantly pointing to the falseness of the Hollywood view of things, particularly in the realm of sex and love.<br />This is definitely Nabokov at his finest; even the plot must take a backseat to his lush, witty and playful prose.  Ada is definitely a novel in which Nabokov's love of complexity and eye for detail reached spellbinding heights.	2000-10-02
2263288:US	50718004	R1SHBOQ72V590P	0465026567	296214142	Gödel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid	Books	5	242	258	N	N	A Profound Meditation On Human Creativity	Gödel, Escher, Bach:  An Eternal Golden Braid debates, beautifully, the question of consciousness and the possibility of artificial intelligence.  It is a book that attempts to discover the true meaning of &quot;self.&quot;<br />As the book introduces the reader to cognitive science, the author draws heavily from the world of art to illustrate the finer points of mathematics.  The works of M.C. Escher and J.S. Bach are discussed as well as other works in the world of art and music.  Topics presented range from mathematics and meta-mathematics to programming, recursion, formal systems, multilevel systems, self-reference, self-representation and others.<br />Lest you think Gödel, Escher, Bach:  An Eternal Golden Braid, to be a dry and boring book on a dry and boring topic, think again.  Before each of the book's twenty chapters, Hofstadter has included a witty dialogue, in which Achilles, the Tortoise, and friends discuss various aspects that will later be examined by Hofstadter in the chapter to follow.<br />In writing these wonderful dialogues, Hofstadter created and entirely new form of art in which concepts are presented on two different levels simultaneously:  form and content.  The more obvious level of content presents each idea directly through the views of Achilles, Tortoise and company.  Their views are sometimes right, often wrong, but always hilariously funny.  The true beauty of this book, however, lies in the way Hofstadter interweaves these very ideas into the physical form of the dialogue.  The form deals with the same mathematical concepts discussed by the characters, and is more than vaguely reminiscent of the musical pieces of Bach and printed works of Escher that the characters mention directly in their always-witty and sometimes hilarious, discussions.<br />One example is the &quot;Crab Canon,&quot; that precedes Chapter Eight.  This is a short but highly amusing piece that can be read, like the musical notes in Bach's Crab Canon, in either direction--from start to finish or from finish to start, resulting in the very same text.  Although fiendishly difficult to write, the artistic beauty of that dialogue equals Bach's music or Escher's drawing of the same name.<br />As good as all this is (and it really is wonderful), it is only the beginning.  Other topics include self-reference and self-representation (really quite different).  The examples given can, and often do, lead to hilarious and paradoxical results.<br />In playfully presenting these concepts in a highly amusing manner, Hofstadter slowly and gently introduces the reader to more advanced mathematical ideas, like formal systems, the Church-Turing Thesis, Turing's Halting Problem and Gödel's Incompleteness Theorem.<br />Gödel, Escher, Bach:  An Eternal Golden Braid, does discuss some very serious topics and it can, at times, be a daunting book to handle and absorb.  But it is always immensely enjoyable to read.  The sheer joy of discovering the puns and playful gems hidden in the text are a part of what makes this book so very special.  Anecdotes, word plays and Zen koans are additional aspects that help make this book an experience that many readers will come to feel to be a turning point in their lives.<br />Like every other book written by Hofstadter, Gödel, Escher, Bach:  An Eternal Golden Braid, has an index and a bibliography that must be noted as exceptionally well done.<br />Although filled with English wordplay, this book is in no way tied to the American origin of its author.  For years, it was thought that Gödel, Escher, Bach:  An Eternal Golden Braid, would be impossible to translate, but so far, it has successfully been translated into French, German, Spanish, Chinese, Swedish, Dutch and Russian.<br />A profound and beautiful meditation on human thought and creativity, this book is indescribably gorgeous and definitely one of a kind.	2000-10-01
2263342:US	50718004	R2WKTQ6SM9F1CG	0375755349	91631748	Vera (Mrs. Vladimir Nabokov)	Books	5	158	165	N	N	The Ultimate Woman Behind the Man	&quot;Vera was a pale blonde when I met her, but it didn't take me long to turn her hair white.&quot;<br />The above was taken from one of Nabokov's own journal entries and, although it may seem humorous, it is no doubt true.  Pulitzer-Prize winner, Stacy Schiff, suggests, even in the title of her book, that Véra Nabokov was a woman who was only capable of being known as Mrs. Vladimir Nabokov.  Her relationship with her famed husband, no matter what its course, was the defining factor of her life.  And Véra would have it no other way.<br />Véra Nabokov has been described as Vladimir Nabokov's &quot;disciple, bodyguard, secretary-protector, handmaiden, buffer, quotation-finder, groupie, advance man, nursemaid and courtier.&quot;  She is, not unjustly, celebrated as being the ultimate Woman Behind the Man.<br />Véra graduated from the Sorbonne as a master of modern languages, but, sadly, she did not keep copies of her own work as she did her husband's.  In fact, she probably would have denied that her own work was worth keeping, although everything leads us to believe otherwise.<br />In addition to transcribing, typing and smoothing Valdimir's prose while it was still &quot;warm and wet,&quot; Véra cut book pages, played chauffeur, translated, negotiated contracts and did the many practical things her famous husband disdained.  This remarkable woman even made sure that the butterflies he collected died with the least amount of suffering.<br />A precocious child who read her first newspaper at the age of three, Véra was born into a middle-class Jewish family at the beginning of the twentieth-century in Czarist St. Petersburg.  In 1921, with the advance of communism, her family settled in Berlin.  It was there that she met the dapper and non-Jewish Vladimir.  Their marriage would last fifty-two years and be described as an intensely symbiotic coupling.<br />Although Vladimir traveled and conducted several affairs, Véra supported him throughout, struggling to raise their son amidst the Nazism that was beginning to fester in Berlin.  Blaming herself for her husband's infidelity, Véra managed to rejuvenate her marriage and the couple moved again--this time to New York City--where Véra typed Valdimir's manuscripts in bed while recovering from pneumonia.  Forever believing in her husband's creative instincts, Véra stood by his art even when debt threatened to overtake them.  It was she who intervened on the several occasions when Vladimir attempted to burn his manuscript of Lolita.<br />Véra Nabokov's tombstone bears the epithet, &quot;Wife, Muse and Agent,&quot; and Nabokov knew the immensity of the debt he owed her.  Late in life, he even refused to capture a rare butterfly he encountered in a mountain park for the sole reason that Véra was no longer at his side.  Like her husband, Véra had highly developed aesthetic tastes and the two enjoyed a &quot;tender telepathy.&quot;  Often described as &quot;synesthetes,&quot; the couple would have debates about &quot;the color of Monday, the taste of E-flat.&quot;  It is certainly without exaggeration that Nabokov wrote to Véra, &quot;I need you, my fairy tale.  For you are the only person I can talk to--about the hue of a cloud, about the singing of a thought, and about the fact that when I went out to work today and looked at each sunflower in the face, they all smiled back at me with their seeds.&quot;<br />Although many feel the Véra should have been encouraged to develop her own considerable talents, it can be argued that she did, and that her greatest talent was that of wife and helpmate.  It is certainly one she choose freely and without rancor.  The fact that her husband was fortunate, indeed, cannot be denied.<br />Véra is a book rich in detail, analysis and affection.  Like all couples and all marriages, the Nabokovs were unique and they were special.  To know one, was to glimpse the other, for with the passing of years, neither was wholly himself or herself.  There are those who might not have understood Véra Nabokov's choices and might not have agreed with them, but they are the ones who have never known the ecstasy of a truly close relationship.  Véra Nabokov was a most fascinating woman, one that made her own choices in life and lived them most happily.  We can only admire her greatly.	2000-10-01
2263449:US	50718004	RC32GT27NC57S	0374253846	208957908	That Same Flower: Floria Aemilia's Letter to Saint Augustine	Books	5	12	13	N	N	The Fruits and Beauty of Our Own Humanity	Norwegian-born, international bestselling novelist Jostein Gaarder splendidly exhibits the timelessness, the universality, and the agony of filial, but repudiated love in his book, That Same Flower.  The book, Gaarder maintains, is a genuine reproduction of a personal letter composed for St. Augustine, one of the Latin Fathers of the Christian Church and one of the greatest figures in Western philosophy, by his former lover Floria Aemilia.<br />Gaarder says he discovered the letter in 1995 while shopping in an antique bookstore in Buenos Aires, Argentina and agreed to purchase it from the owner for a little more than $12,000 even though it was uncertain at the time as to its authenticity.  Following an examination of the letter's style, terminology and grammar, however, Gaarder says he became convinced it could have only originated in medieval days.<br />The letter, titled the Codex Floriae, if indeed genuine, represents a major historical find.  Over the centuries, very little has come to light regarding the lover of St. Augustine and their son Adeodatus.  We do know that they lived together for several years in North Africa and Italy before Augustine's conversion into the Christian faith.  Previously, all that has been known about Floria Aemilia has been derived from Augustine's own writings, chiefly his famous autobiographical Confessions.<br />In That Same Flower, however, Floria Aemilia writes candidly of her relationship with Augustine and of her feelings about his conversion.  At times she corroborates what Augustine, himself has written and portrays him as a man prone to attacks of anguish and confusion.  The major part of the letter, however, is dedicated to a bitter denouncement of Augustine's decision to separate forever from both Aemilia and their son.  Aemilia, it is clear does not share Augustine's faith in a God that &quot;desires above all that man should live in abstinence...I have no faith in such a God.&quot;<br />Augustine, himself, suffered deepsorrow over his decision to part from Aemilia.  In his Confessions, he laments, &quot;The woman I lived with was not permitted to stay at my side...My heart, which was deeply attached to her, was pierced, and wounded so that it bled...My wound, inflicted when my relationship with the woman I lived with was brought to an end, would not heal either.&quot;<br />Augustine's pain, however, pales in comparison to the anguish that surges forth from Aemilia's writings.  Her distress is convincing and compelling and we feel the enormity of her pain.  The victim of Augustine's conversion, Aemilia expresses her heartbreak most eloquently in her letter.  &quot;My heart,&quot; she says, suffered the same hurt...for we were two souls torn from each other...because you loved the salvation of your own soul more than you loved me.&quot;<br />Augustine's mother, Monica was one of the factors that led to the end of Aemilia's relationship with Augustine.  Monica, described as a willful and ambitious woman, by Aemilia, and one who opposed her, banished Aemilia from the household and arranged for what she assumed would be a more suitable engagement for Augustine.  Rightfully expecting Augustine to come to her defense, Aemilia was crushed and defeated when he refused to do so, even though he later withdrew from the engagement.<br />Augustine, however, also refused to return to the one woman he truly loved.  Convinced that eternal damnation could only be avoided by a total renouncement of the pleasures of the body, he withdrew from all physical pleasure, including the company of Aemilia.<br />Aemilia, herself, has no sympathy for Augustine's views.  Instead, she views them with the utmost contempt, having no faith in a God who places the existential and spiritual worth of a man over that of a woman.  &quot;I don't believe in a God,&quot; she writes, &quot;who lays waste to a woman's life in order to save a man's soul.&quot; <br />Aemilia also writes much of the medieval &quot;theologiansand Platonists&quot; who were the influential players in Augustine's intellectual and spiritual development.  Their ideas, she says, transformed Augustine from a man living a carefree existence into a God-fearing mortifier of his own flesh.  Aemilia denounces these men as ruling within a &quot;dark labyrinth&quot; and swears that Augustine was misguided by them.<br />Scored with the basic theme of Augustine's anti-materialism and aversion to bodily appetites, Aemilia accuses him of carrying his denial of physical gratification to extremes, regarding everything from eating nutritious food to listening to an enjoyable piece of music as a sin against God.<br />And, in his Confessions, Augustine writes that the sense of hearing &quot;offers its perilous enticements&quot; and that &quot;I still find satisfaction in the melodies to which your words give life and should when they are sung artistically by a fine voice...So I sin in this without noticing; but after I feel it is sin.&quot;<br />After reading Aemilia's letter, it is difficult to put complete faith in Augustine's self-righteous insensitivity to natural human desires, especially when one considers his weaknesses and imperfections and the severe background of his religious convictions.<br />Aemilia shared this disbelief and Augustine's conversion failed to convince her about the necessity of &quot;despising this life, and about how good it is to die.&quot;  It did, however, remind her of the priceless value she, herself, placed of the here-and-now.  She comes to the conclusion that &quot;it must be human arrogance to reject this life--with all its earthly joys--in favor of an existence which is, perhaps, merely an abstraction...We must first live...then we can philosophize.&quot;<br />We must learn to embrace both the fruits and the beauty of our own humanity and to cherish and nurture our existence during our short and precious time here on earth.  This is Floria Aemilia's message to the world; the message thatshe went to great lengths to nurture and preserve in the letter that became That Same Flower.	2000-10-01
2263714:US	50718004	R1G1B8Q4PU2NLJ	081120197X	449332450	Arthur Rimbaud: A Biography	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Too Fast to Live, Too Young to Die	By the time Arthur Rimbaud had reached the age of nineteen, he had already composed dozens of fiery, visionary poems and prose pieces that shattered French concepts of style and content and exerted a vast influence over the role of the artist in the popular imagination.  At twenty, however, he had burned many of his poems and had vowed never to write another line.  He began to wander Europe and Africa, becoming a gunrunner, a slavetrader, a construction foreman.  He was a rebel in the truest sense of the world and his motto could well have been &quot;too fast to live, too young to die.&quot;<br />Rimbaud is a remembered for his outrageous behavior as much as for his amazing literary work.  Drunk on absinthe, he would insult priests, other poets, casual passersby.  He was both unkempt and anti-social, to say the least, but his influence on surrealism cannot be denied and such works as A Season in Hell have exerted tremendous influence over the literary community.  Rimbaud's experimentation with language and with imagery is so astounding that the reader is left bewildered and amazed.<br />Rimbaud, in fact, established a new approach to writing.  In a letter to a friend, dated 1871, he wrote, &quot;the Poet makes himself a seer by a long, immense and systematic derangement of all the senses.&quot;  Rimbaud's systematic derangement released all future poets from the bourgeois bonds of the good and evil of conventional morality.  For the first time, perhaps, poets felt free to explore the powerful, unarticulated, subconscious regions of the mind.  As Rimbaud, himself, wrote in &quot;Alchemy of the Word,&quot; &quot;I boasted of inventing, with rhythm from within me, a kind of poetry that all the senses, sooner or later, would recognize.  And I alone would be its translator...I began it as an investigation.  I turned silences and nights into words.  What was unutterable, I wrote down.  I made the whirling world stand still.&quot;  And so he did.<br />Enid Starkie, who devoted much of her life to the study of this fascinating young rebel, tells us that Rimbaud was disgusted by those who approached poetry as a hobby or a social activity only.  These writers, he said, had the soul of a banker or and accountant.  &quot;The soul must be made monstrous.&quot;  Rimbaud believed this with all his heart and he stated it in no uncertain terms.  &quot;I say the Poet is therefore truly the thief of fire!&quot;  Rimbaud, truly a man possessed of Promethean prowess and stature, also suffered endless torment.  He was an outcast, rejected by society, but, though seemingly frail at times, he was really possessed of superhuman strength.  It was this emotional strength that allowed him to produce poetry that was both astounding and lasting.<br />Starkie describes how Rimbaud, with his mentor and lover, the poet, Paul Verlaine, became the sensation of both Paris and London as he attacked and insulted poets of the day for, as he put it, murdering the language.  He engaged in debauchery of the most astonishing kind, but it was a debauchery that led to a sublime state of artistic creativity seldom achieved.<br />Enid Starkie's biography is wonderful and eminently readable.  It stands as the premier chronicle of Rimbaud's life and work.  Anyone seeking to understand this complex young man and his equally complex work should read this book.  It is, in fact, essential.	2000-10-01
2263742:US	50718004	RM14NTD00NB5K	078670733X	816702919	The Rose Grower	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Lush, Voluptuous Prose	The Rose Grower is a historical novel that unfolds as languorously and luxuriously as the petals of any flower, revealing first one complexity, then another.  Although the story is interesting, it is De Kretser's lush and voluptuous prose that ultimately seduces us, opening our senses and pulling us into the world of the novel.<br />The story beings on 14 July 1789, the day of the storming of the Bastille.  In the little village of Montsignac, in southwestern France, a man literally falls from the sky, marking the beginning of change for the once aristocratic Saint-Pierre family.<br />Stephen Fletcher, the wounded balloonist who fell from the sky regains consciousness on the Saint-Pierre's sofa and immediately falls in love with the eldest daughter of the family, the vain and beautiful Claire.  For Stephen, it was a coup de foudre as he calls his first vision of Claire, &quot;the lightening flash which reveals the lay of the land between a man and woman.&quot;  Complications, however, ensue.  Claire is married to the rich and pompous Hubert de Monferrant and they have a son.<br />The youngest sister, Mathilde, a brilliant and precocious eight-year-old, is also smitten with Stephen and he quickly becomes her hero.  Rounding out the trio, is Sophie, the plain, almost unnoticed, serious middle daughter, considered an old maid at the age of twenty-two.  Sophie, too, feels passion for Stephen, and she lavishes this passion on her gardening, more specifically on her efforts to bring forth a truly crimson rose, a unique and special specimen.  &quot;In eighteenth-century France, crimson roses do not exist. There are red-purple roses, of course, and rosy-red, and a sumptuous deep pink overclouded with plum and mulberry.  None of which will do.&quot;<br />This book is more than a love story, however.  This is France during the time of the Revolution and the country is seething with political unrest.  An idealistic young doctor named Joseph Morel is drawn into Sophie's world when he is invited to dinner at the Saint-Pierre's.  A member of a group  of revolutionaries nearly as elitist as the monarchy they are trying to overthrow, Morel will have a profound influence over both Sophie and the entire Saint-Pierre family.<br />As love flourishes, the horror of the Revolution increases.  A convent which has been converted into a holding jail for traitors becomes the site of a massacre and it is Monsieur Saint-Pierre who has the bad fortune of discovering the carnage.  As Saint-Pierre begins to investigate the gruesome murders, Claire's husband jeopardizes the entire family's safety by becoming a counterrevolutionary, fighting on the side of the monarchy.<br />The Rose Grower is a sweeping historical saga with a large cast of characters whose lives are intricately interlaced.  But it is De Krester's eye for detail that captures our attention in this complex and multi-layered story.  This author brilliantly captures the very essence of the meals, the scent of the flowers, the conversations.  The air of the past is brought vividly to life.<br />The thing that sets The Rose Grower apart from other historical novels and also serves to elevate it, is the sheer luminosity of De Krester's prose; its lush style is perfect for a novel of eighteenth-century France.  &quot;That morning the sky above Castelnau was laid with creamy clouds lit up along the folds like crumpled satin.&quot;  She writes of &quot;white birds like clumsy stitching on blue cloth&quot; and &quot;the stainless voices of children.&quot;<br />This prose-poetry, juxtaposed against the horror of bloodshed that leads to a human sacrifice of sorts in the Saint-Pierre household, is breathtakingly beautiful.  The Rose Grower is a book that portrays ordinary people struggling to survive and keep their dignity intact in the most extraordinary of times.  The book's two worlds--love and war--are perfectly symbolized by Sophie Saint-Pierre's blood-colored rose.  A rose that springs forth, exuding life and death, but above all, the persistence of hope.	2000-10-01
2263811:US	50718004	R1DJ7ONYZYC8US	0679754792	180945773	Genet: A Biography	Books	5	41	43	N	N	Sensitive Look at a Complex Man	Jean Genet's major works are considered masterpieces.  His plays, The Screen and The Blacks are performed worldwide.  During his lifetime, he received the Grand Prix des Arts et Lettres and he is remembered for championing the causes of the oppressed.  Yet, surprisingly, for many years, no biography of Genet had been attempted.  Writers could have been intimidated by Sartre's huge psychological study, St. Genet, published in 1952, or perhaps by the elusive nature of Genet, himself, and his complex morality.<br />In 1987 Edmund White began what became a six-year study of Genet's life and works.  The result of that work is this book, Genet, a shining and enduring biography that shares much in common with Starkie's excellent biography of Rimbaud and Ellman's Oscar Wilde.<br />White read Genet's Our Lady of the Flowers for the first time in 1964.  He responded to Genet's &quot;deeper, more extravagant prose,&quot; and, in doing so, he experienced a self-liberation as the gay world was presented without apology or explanation and gay men were afforded the experience of seeing their world, not as tacky but as glamorous and poetic.  In addition, Genet's affectionate rendering of drag queens helped to elevate their view in the eyes of all.<br />White, who had tested HIV-positive in 1985, was grateful for the chance to work on the biography as it also afforded him the opportunity to reflect on his own homosexuality, art and literature in a world not yet affected by the AIDS virus, for Genet had inhabited a world and culture prior to the outbreak of AIDS.<br />In this sensitive biography, White takes us on a journey through the French welfare and prison systems; high society led by Cocteau; café society led by Sartre; and revolutionary movements as well.<br />In Genet:  A Biography, White shows us that Genet's work, like Genet, himself, is a terrain of contradictions, and he spells out both the kindnesses and the cruelty with sincere and translucent clarity.<br />Genet beganlife in 1911 as a ward of the state.  Raised as an outcast, by a young age he was attempting to come to terms with his sensitive and convulsive nature.  At the age of thirteen he began lying and stealing; by fourteen, he was branded a thief, something he accepted with arrogance rather than shame.  At fifteen, he was arrested and led, in handcuffs, into the Penitentiary Colony of Mettray.<br />At Mettray, he worked in the fields and performed naval drills on landlocked ships.  By night, however, the prisoners lived by their own code.  The handsome, sadistic heterosexual was king, and someone, like Genet, passive and adoring, not only served, but blossomed as a princess and a scribe.<br />As brutal as life was for Genet in Mettray, he cherished his time there, for he experienced many awakenings within its walls.  The time in Mettray also afforded Genet a chance to look inward.  What he saw caused him tremendous anguish, for he had to face the realization that he did, indeed, possess all the evil that others had attributed to him.  His suffering, however, only made him strong.<br />Destitute, but free at nineteen, Genet began a decade of wandering through Europe and Africa, passing from one prison to another for one petty crime or another.  In 1939, in a prison cell in Fresnes, Genet began his masterpiece, Our Lady of the Flowers.  Figuratively, he wrote in martyr's blood, for the book represented a reopening of all his adolescent wounds.<br />As Genet wrote of his early loves in his cell at Mattray, modern literature found society's most marginal men portrayed, for the first time, without shame or remorse.  White clearly points out that Genet never used his writing as a political or psychological forum, yet his books sparked furious debates over censorship in the courts of Europe.  What Genet did do was open the door for future writers and, most importantly, confer dignity and understanding on society's least understood and most estranged.<br />Genet had not set outto do so, but he had created a kind of miracle.  Social change began to take place, and the president of France, at Sartre's urging, pardoned Genet of all his crimes.  However, as White theorizes, this pardon also stripped Genet of his sacred individuality, his uniqueness, and he fell into a deep depression and ceased all writing.<br />A relationship with the sculptor, Alberto Giacometti, however, conferred on Genet new meaning and purpose and he said, &quot;every man is every other man, as am I.&quot;<br />Resuming his life as a vagabond, Genet discovered untapped inner resources and a wealth of creative ideas.  His importance as a poet emerged.<br />Genet's last years were filled with suffering, when, addicted to drugs and suffering from cancer, he dedicated himself to the plight of the Palestinians; rootless warriors lacking a champion, much like himself.  His final work, Prisoner of Love, is dedicated to these people and to life, itself, and the power of the creative imagination.  This was Genet's final miracle:  the realization that we are all holy, that we all contain, both the whole and the part, of the divine.<br />Genet died at the age of seventy-five, on 15 April 1986 in a hotel room in the thirteenth arrondissement of Paris.  He is buried in Larache, Morocco and his grave bears only two sun-washed, sparkling white stones.  Although Genet's body may lie beneath the Moroccan sand, his spirit still soars, crowned with the blood of his youth and the thorn-studded roses of old age.	2000-10-01
2263888:US	50718004	RT3TL8R1VHQ3B	0375402519	231777935	South of the Border, West of the Sun	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Tale of a Japanese Baby Boomer	As with the other protagonist's of Haruki Murakami's novels, there is nothing outwardly extraordinary about Hajimi, the narrator of South of the Border, West of the Sun.  He was born in 1951 during &quot;the first week of the first month of the first year of the second half of the twentieth century.&quot;  Hajimi (whose name means &quot;beginning&quot;) is an ordinary, prototypical Japanese baby boomer.  He grew up in a paradisaical postwar suburb and now, in mid-life, is the owner of a trendy Tokyo jazz club, drives a BMW and dotes on his two little girls.  (Hajimi is so ordinary, in fact, that, were it possible, he would have had only three-quarters of one child, the better to fit his country's demographics.)<br />While everything seems so right in Hajimi's world, it is, at times, so very wrong.  As an only child he was something of an anomaly in both his own family and in his neighborhood.  &quot;In the world I lived in,&quot; he says, &quot;it was an accepted idea that only children were spoiled by their parents, weak, and self-centered.  This was a given--like the fact that the barometer goes down the higher up you go and the fact that cows give milk.&quot;<br />Murakami fans will quickly recognize the social satire masked as self-deprecation and Murakami's deadpan tone of narration, something he employs even when describing the most surreal of events.  South of the Border, West of Sun, however, is Murakami's most domestic and deeply moving novel, and it resonates with dense undercurrents  throughout, although it has mistakenly been called &quot;accessible&quot; by those who have failed to understand its deeper implications.  What is gone is the peripatetic pace of A Wild Sheep Chase, the private-eye swagger of Dance Dance Dance and the cultural and historical territory covered in The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle.<br />Instead, we have an almost-simple tale of lost love and redemption.  But not quite.  Hajimi does not live his live as an outcast.  He is rescued by the lovely Shimamoto, another only child with whom he forges a bond worthy of soulmates.  Their relationship, however, like most relationships of adolescent origin, does not survive into adulthood and Hajimi eventually, well, gets on with life.<br />Shimamoto, surprisingly to Hajimi, at least, does make another appearance in Hajimi's life.  With cinematic melodrama, Hajimi spots her one day, sitting on a bar stool in his club as the pianist plays &quot;Star Crossed Lovers.&quot;  Hajimi's first thought is that fate has handed him a once-in-lifetime opportunity, an extraordinary chance.  He can now consummate his long-lost love and rewrite his history.<br />Fate, though, often deals us a less-than-perfect hand.  Hajimi is now happily married and Shimamoto, although troubled, wealthy and completely unpredictable, seems to be a woman without a past.<br />Murakami is a master at turning a state of consciousness into an inhabited world, blurring the boundaries of inner space and external reality.  Although much of this metamorphosis is representative of contemporary Japanese culture, American readers, as well, find it familiar territory.  Murakami makes extensive use of Western imports and global brand names, and his genius resides in the fact that he can see and write about the universal uniqueness that &quot;everyman&quot; possesses.  In Murakami's hands, the ordinary is the only extraordinary.<br />Shimamoto, however, is a reckless and free spirit and not the type one usually looks to for spiritual completion and the mystery that surrounds her is a true mystery, much in the way that Freud's cigar was simply a cigar.  Yet, the signature Murakami layered meanings remain; they are just compressed into a resonant, emblematic whole rather than being exploded into bits of colored light filtered through a prism.<br />Hijimi, the consummate Japanese Yuppie is an easy target for Murakami.  He is affluent, unfaithful in a &quot;sort of&quot; way (&quot;I never slept with any onewoman more than once or twice.  Okay, three times tops.  I never felt I was having an affair with a capital 'A'.&quot;), and he indulges in a complacent routine of lap-swimming, child-chauffeuring and gourmet grocery shopping.  And when this routine is threatened, we feel threatened as well.<br />Ironically, it is Hajimi's wife who provides the closure he is seeking but not in exactly the way he was thinking about.  Yukkio's plump, serene domesticity contains a private hell he'd never suspected but one that provides the key to life in the earthly paradise of the here-and-now.<br />Those who think this book represents a lighter version of Murakami should read it again...or take a deeper look at their own lives.  South of Border, West of the Sun may just be Haruki Murakami at his very best.	2000-10-01
2264412:US	50718004	R246SK5WMXI9E0	0140248900	414532861	A Fish in the Water: A Memoir	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Bittersweet Tale of a Sacrificial Llama	A Fish In the Water is Peruvian writer Mario Vargas Llosa's bittersweet tale of the three years he spent in public life and of his quixotic campaign for the presidency of his native Peru.<br />His candidacy, he says, all came about &quot;through the caprice of the wheel of fortune.&quot;  At the time, he thought his decision to run for president of Peru was a &quot;moral&quot; one.  &quot;Circumstances,&quot; he writes, &quot;placed me in a position of leadership at a critical moment in the life of my country.&quot;  But Vargas Llosa is first and foremost a writer, not a politician, and so he has been willing to dig a little deeper into the reasoning behind his decision.  &quot;If the decadence, the impoverishment, the terrorism, and the multiple crises of Peruvian society had not made it an almost impossible challenge to govern such a country, it would never have entered my head to accept such a task.&quot;  Motivation doesn't get much more quixotic than that.<br />Even more engaging than Vargas Llosa's revelations about his unsuccessful foray into the political world, are his reminiscences about his childhood and youth, which he intersperses throughout this book.  He begins with a vivid and traumatic memory:  the revelation by his mother that his father, whom the author thought had died before his birth, was, in reality, alive and waiting to meet him in a nearby hotel.  It was a revelation that Vargas Llosa did not greet with joy.<br />In fiction, the cruelties experienced in childhood might be used to help explain the adult who survived them, but Vargas Llosa wisely makes no attempt to connect the two.  The sections regarding the presidential campaign and those on his youth run along parallel tracks, but the story of his early life trails off after his graduation from college and his decision to go to Europe to write.  The matter-of-fact air about the stories suggests that Vargas Llosa is more concerned with remembering than with interpreting and analyzing.<br />While the personal memories make for the most compelling reading, the campaign memoir does offer a convincing self-portrait of a political innocent sinking under a tide of democratic absurdities.  Wildly popular at first, Vargas Llosa presented a coherent, but harsh, economic plan to his fellow Peruvians and rapidly became Peru's sacrificial llama.  Near the end of the campaign, he endured catcalls, stone throwing and scurrilous allegations about almost everything, including his books.<br />Those of us who know and love Vargas Llosa and his books greeted his loss to Alberto Fujimori with more than one sigh of relief.  But anyone who has an interest in the gorgeous landscape of Peru, Latin American politics, or the magnificent works of Mario Vargas Llosa will find this book essential reading.	2000-09-30
2264472:US	50718004	R3EMTAKPWSBY1U	0394703693	922733443	The Birth of Tragedy and The Case of Wagner	Books	5	34	37	N	N	The Sense Of Self	In this work, Nietzsche theorizes that Greek tragedy was built upon the wedding of two principles, which he associated with the deities Apollo and Dionysius.  The Apollonian principle, in keeping with the characteristics of the sun god Apollo, is the principle of order, static beauty and clear boundaries.  The Dionysian principle, in contrast, is the principle of frenzy, excess, and the collapse of boundaries.<br />These principles offered perspectives on the position of the individual human being, but perspectives that were radically opposed to one another.  The Appollonian principle conceived the individual as sufficiently separate from the rest of reality to be able to contemplate it dispassionately.  The Dionysian principle, however, presents reality as a tumultuous flux in which individuality is overwhelmed by the dynamics of a living whole.  Nietzsche believed that a balance of these principals is essential if one is both to recognize the challenge to one's sense of meaning posed by individual vulnerability and to recognize the solution, which depends on one's sense of oneness with a larger reality.  Greek tragedy, as he saw it, confronted the issue of life's meaning by merging the perspectives of the two principles.<br />The themes of Greek tragedy concerned the worst case scenario from an Apollonian point of view--the devastation of vulnerable individuals.  Scholarship had concluded that the chanting of the chorus was the first form of Athenian tragedy.  Nietzsche interpreted the effect of the chorus as the initiation of a Dionysian experience on the part of the audience.  Captivated by music, audience members abandoned their usual sense of themselves as isolated individuals and felt themselves instead to be part of a larger, frenzied whole.<br />This sense of self as part of a dynamic whole gave a different ground for experiencing life as meaningful than one would recognize in the more typical Apollonian condition, which entails a certain psychic distance.Feeling oneself to be part of the joyous vitality of the whole, one could take participation in life to be intrinsically wonderful, despite the obvious vulnerabilities one experiences as individual.  The aesthetic transformation of the audience member's sense of the significance of individual life aroused a quasi-religious affirmation of life's value.  &quot;It is only as an aesthetic phenomenon that existence and the world are eternally justified,&quot; Nietzsche concluded.<br />The function of characters and drama later added to tragedy depended on the fundamental, enthralled experience of oneness with the chorus, according to Nietzsche.  Already incited to a Dionysian state before the tragic hero appeared on stage, the audience would see the character before them as a manifestation of the god Dionysius.  Unfortunately, Euripides restructured tragedy in such a way that the chorus' role was diminished.  Euripides wrote plays that would encourage an Appollonian stance of objective interest in the drama.  Nietzsche contended that in his attempt to write intelligent plays, Euripides had killed tragedy.  He had done so, moreover, because he had fallen under the influence of Socrates.<br />The Birth of Tragedy is the first of many works in which Nietzsche re-evaluates the traditional view that Socrates was the quintessential philosopher.  Although granting that Socrates was a turning point in world history, Nietzsche contends that Socrates was responsible for directing Western culture toward an imbalanced, exaggerated reliance on the Apollonian point of view.  A defender of reason to an irrational degree, Socrates had taught that reason could penetrate reality to the point that it could correct reality's flaws.  This had become the fundamental dream of Western culture, a dream that was later manifested in the modern approach to scholarship.   Unfortunately, the optimism of the Socratic rational project was doomed to failure.  Reason itself, through Kant, had pointed toits own limits.  Whatever reason might accomplish, it could not correct the most basic flaws in human reality--the facts of human vulnerability and mortality.<br />The Birth of Tragedy also involves an indictment of contemporary culture as well as an account of the significance of tragedy.  Contemporary culture's reliance on reason and it's commitment to scientific optimism had rendered the modern individual largely oblivious to the Dionysian character of reality--character which engulfed all individuals in the flow of life but which also rendered everyone subject to death and devastation.  The repression of vulnerability was psychologically disastrous, in Nietzsche's view.  The only hope for modern culture was that it might turn to myth, which could compensate for the culture's excesses, before a crisis.<br />The Birth of Tragedy failed initially to secure esteem for Nietzsche among his philological colleagues.  Nevertheless, the work has had enduring influence.  In particular, the analysis of Apollo and Dionysius has had an impact on figures in diverse fields, among them Thomas Mann and C.G. Jung.<br />In The Case of Wagner (1888) and Nietzsche Contra Wagner (1895) Nietzsche analyzed and critiqued Wagner, and criticized his earlier views of Wagner.  Since one of Nietzsche's early works, The Birth of Tragedy, and two of his later works were about Wagner, it would seem that the relationship between Nietzsche and Wagner was significant to Nietzsche, even though he decided not to see Wagner again more than ten years before he wrote The Case of Wagner.  Although his first work was a pro-Wagner work, his last work on Wagner was an anti-Wagner work.  In The Case of Wagner, Nietzsche praised Bizet's Carmen, but condemned the works of Wagner.  He says that it seems that in a music drama of Wagner, it always seems that someone is being redeemed.  Indeed, some of Wagner's operas are about Christian concepts, and Nietzsche was against this.  Nietzsche went on to insult Wagner by stating that Wagner's music is sick and corrupt and that Wagner is a decadent, even though it seems that no one realizes even in Paris that Wagner is a decadent.  Not only did he accuse Wagner of being a decadent, but he also questioned whether Wagner was a musician at all.  Nietzsche also stated that Wagnerian heroines were decadents like Madame Bovary and accused Wagner of writing nihilistic music.	2000-09-30
2264478:US	50718004	RQD4DL93ILV57	0374166994	711481092	Griefwork: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Encroaching Insanity and Talking Palms	Griefwork is James Hamilton-Paterson's third novel.  It is more carefully crafted than Gerontius and Ghosts of Manila, more serious than The Bell-Boy and more meditative than any of his other works.<br />Griefwork is set in the time period immediately following World War II and encompasses a lyrical and detailed character study of Leon, a brilliant, eccentric, self-taught curator of Palm House, a large greenhouse in the botanical gardens of the capital city of an unnamed Northern European country.  Leon struggled against near-impossible odds to preserve Palm House throughout the Nazi occupation of the city and is now engaged in a battle against city authorities who would like to close the garden and develop the land on which it sits.<br />Hamilton-Paterson tells the story of Leon's life in flashbacks, slowly exposing the loss that serves as its defining factor and catalyst for his now slowly encroaching insanity.  The son of a North Sea fisherman, Leon is irrevocably changed when, as a teenager, he spends a summer as an assistant to a visiting naturalist, one who recognizes Leon's talents and encourages him to make full use of them.<br />More importantly, Leon becomes obsessed with Cou Min, the young daughter of the scientist's Asian servant.  Even though he never again sees her, her loss affects Leon so deeply that it becomes the backdrop of his life; the reason for all he does thereafter.<br />Leon's obsession is complicated by the events of WWII when he rescues a young gypsy from a Fascist mob and enters into a strange and haunting relationship with a beautiful Asian princess who wants to hire him to create a botanical garden in her own country and who may or may not be interested in him personally.  This lyrically meditative story slowly spins a web that eventually catches everyone involved in ultimate disaster.  <br />The book is not without its own stylistic devices, however, and some of them border on the pretentious.  Leon is so attuned to the plants in PalmHouse that, at times, he can even hear them speak to him, just as they speak to the reader in a pseudo-Greek chorus at the end of each chapter.  This can be disconcerting at first, especially as the plants are possessed of some of the wittiest dialogue in the book, certainly more so than Leon, whose grimness is unrelieved.<br />Hamilton-Paterson, however, is a master at writing about the natural world, so this particular stylistic device eventually works and we are keenly aware of Leon's frustrations in evoking a &quot;natural&quot; world that can only exist under the protective barrier of glass.<br />In a world where popular fiction is usually fast-paced and brutal and literary fiction cool, ironic and postmodern, Hamilton-Paterson can be seen as an anomaly or as a phenomenon.  A private man, fifty-something, and with no institutional affiliations, he may be seen by some as far too artistic for his own good.  Defying the brand-name classification many publishers demand of today's novelists, all of Hamilton-Paterson's novels, despite a similarity of style and theme, are wildly different books.<br />Readers who are intelligent enough, or lucky enough, to discover this wonderfully versatile author however, will find themselves richly rewarded.  For James Hamilton-Paterson is a wonderfully versatile author and a passionate writer.  His narratives are richly imagined, his themes odd and knotty but filled with subtle and compassionate characters we come to care about deeply.  And, as always, he tells his stories in gorgeous, haunting and wonderfully precise prose.  Who could ask for anything more?	2000-09-30
2264480:US	50718004	R1NU46SGEBJQD4	0226580296	257259562	Somebody Else: Arthur Rimbaud in Africa 1880-91	Books	4	15	21	N	N	Odi et Ami	Arthur Rimbaud was one of the most brilliant poets the human race has ever seen.  He belongs in the company of Callimachus, Sappho and Catullus, the spoiled child from the north whose frank and erotic poems scandalized Rome:  odi et amo, Catullus had written.  I hate you and I love you.  That says it all.  About Rimbaud as well.<br />Rimbaud was an illusion, a ghost, someone we conjure up and then spend the rest of out lives trying to shake off.  Dead for more than a hundred years now, Arthur Rimbaud wrote poetry for a few brief years, while he was still in his teens, from about 1870 to 1873.  He could never have imagined the extraordinary influence his slim collection of poems would have over the following century.                                          Rimbaud. however, abandoned the world of literature at a very young age.  When he was nineteen, he gave in to a mixture of rage and pride, and threw his marvelous talent onto a bonfire, along with his manuscripts.  By the time his anger had eaten its way through his soul, he could not speak of poetry without contempt.  He lived another eighteen years, wandering from one end of Europe to the other and as far afield as the East Indies.  He joined the Dutch Colonial Army and was sent to Java, but deserted and returned to France.  He got work in Cyprus, as an overseer of a stone quarry, but his temper got the better of him, &quot;I have had some quarrels with the workmen,&quot; he wrote, &quot;and I've had to request some weapons.&quot;  He collapsed with typhoid and hurriedly returned home.<br />In March 1880, when he was twenty-five, he left France for the last time.  He found work in Cyprus again, as foreman of a construction gang in the mountains.  He got involved in another quarrel and, it seems, threw a stone which hit a local worker and killed him.  Rimbaud fled, traveling through the Red Sea, ending up in the British port of Aden, a sun-baked volcanic crater perched at the gateway to the Indian Ocean on the coast of Yemen.  He spent the next eleven years in exile, working as a trader in Aden and Abyssinia.<br />Charles Nicholl's book is chiefly the story of those years, from the time Rimbaud disembarks at Aden in 1880 to his death in Marseilles in 1891, at the age of thirty-seven, from the cancer which had started in his right leg.  It is very stylish, thoroughly researched, and shows a great deal of insight into the character of this angry and bitter man.                                   Arthur Rimbaud's adolescent rebellion was so brief and the flowering of his talent so violent and astonishing that it has overshadowed his essential character.  His life is often seen through a romantic blur, and the astringent view of his career that Nicholl presents in this book is a useful corrective.<br />Rimbaud was born in the northern French town of Charleville in October 1854, the son of an army captain and a farmer's daughter.  There were two younger sisters and an older brother.  The father, who had spent some years in Algeria and in different parts of France, found provincial life stifling and family life difficult.  He was often absent.  Rimbaud was six when his father left for the last time, never to return.<br />His mother was a dour, hard-working woman of peasant stock, impatient with her husband's fecklessness, and embittered by his final desertion.  For most of his life Rimbaud was like his mother--devoted to hard work.  As a child he was obedient, studious and even rather prim.  In his final school examinations he swept the board, winning all the prizes in his form except for two.<br />In his sixteenth year, everything changed.  Two catastrophic public events shook France, and a private calamity changed Rimbaud forever.  The French emperor Napoleon the Third declared war on Prussia in July 1870.  The German armies swept through north-eastern France, the countryside where Rimbaud had grown up, and within six months the French had been defeated.<br />In the aftermath ofthe Armistice in January 1871, the people of Paris, republican to the core and disgusted with their government, set up a Commune.  Eventually French government troops put it down, killing twenty thousand French men and women in the streets of Paris in a single week in May.  Rimbaud had run away from home to join the Commune, though it's unlikely he was there during that week of horror.  <br />Rimbaud though, had his own, personal nightmare to live through.  At some time during this visit to Paris he was raped, perhaps gang-raped, probably by a group of soldiers at the Babylone barracks.  The evidence is indirect but, as Charles Nicholl says, and most biographers agree with him, it is persuasive.  Rimbaud went home to Charleville in a state of profound shock and confusion.  He sent batches of his poems to important poets in the capital, Banville and Paul Verlaine among them.  Verlaine summoned him to Paris and to his fate.  It was September 1871 and Rimbaud was sixteen; Verlaine twenty-eight.  The two men--rather, the man and the schoolboy--became lovers.  The older poet Banville lent Rimabud an attic flat for a while as a favor to Verlaine.  Rimbaud became friends with the musician Ernest Cabaner, who also put him up for a while, the novelist Jules Claretie, and the poets Charles Cros and Germaine Nouveau.  These bohemians were scandalizing the bourgeoisie with their sexual indiscretions, their immodest writings and their indulgence in absinthe and hashish and opium.  Rimbaud outdid them in every respect.<br />He made many enemies.  Verlaine's future biographer Lepelletier disapproved of his influence on his old friend Verlaine, and Rimbaud responded by calling him an obscenity.  When Lepelletier told Rimbaud to shut up, the boy threatened him with a table knife.  He called poor Banville yet another obscenity, he stabbed the photographer Carjat with a sword-stick, he repaid the hospitality of Cabaner by going into Cabaner's room when he wasn't there and committingan unspeakable act.  In short, Rimbaud was as arrogant and bad-tempered as one could get.<br />In July 1873, less than two years after they had first met, Verlaine shot Rimbaud in a fit of drunken jealousy.  The boy was wounded in the wrist, and Verlaine burst into tears and begged his forgiveness.  The next evening while they were out walking in the street Verlaine turned ugly again and pulled the revolver from his pocket.  This time Rimbaud called out to a passing policeman.  They were in Brussels; the police discovered evidence of their homosexual relationship, and incriminating letters.  Rimbaud tried to take back the charges, but it was too late.  Verlaine was sentenced to two years' hard labour in a Belgian jail.<br />Odi et amo.  It is a phrase that sums up, not only Rimbaud's work but his life as well.	2000-09-30
2264512:US	50718004	R2HYWBIXDPPSX3	0486406636	901665062	Thus Spake Zarathustra (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	41	48	N	N	Tale of an Ubermensch	Nietzsche's Thus Spoke Zarathustra is probably his most famous work as well as being the work least popular among readers.  This is probably partially because it is written in fictional form.  Zarathustra is well designed to frustrate twentieth century philosophy of the analytic tradition, which seeks conceptual clarity at the expense of rhetorical form, indeed often insisting on the separation between a concept and the vehicle of its expression.  Moreover, the utilization of the work by the Nazi war effort did little to improve the books reception in the Anglo-American world.<br />The book is philosophically interesting, in part because it does employ literary tropes and genres to philosophical effect.  Zarathustra makes frequent use of parody, particularly of the Platonic dialogues and the New Testament.  This strategy immediately places Zarathustra on a par with Socrates and Christ--and as a clear alternative to them.  The erudite allusions to works spanning the Western philosophical and literary traditions also play a philosophical role, for they both reveal Nietzsche's construct of the tradition he inherited and flag points at which he views it as problematic.<br />Much of the book consists of Zarathustra's speeches on philosophical themes.  These often obscure the plotline of the book.  The book does involve a plot, however, which includes sections in which Zarathustra is &quot;off-stage,&quot; in private reflection, and some in which he seems extremely distressed about the way his teaching and his life are going.  Zarathustra attempts to instruct the crowds and the occasional higher man that he encounters in the book; but his most important teaching is his education of the reader, accomplished through demonstrative means.  Zarathustra teaches by showing.<br />Zarathustra stands in he tradition of the German Bildungsroman, in which a character's development toward spiritual maturity is chronicled.  Zarathustra can be seen as a paradigm for the modern, spiritually sensitive individual, one who grapples with nihilism, the contemporary crisis in values in the wake of the collapse of the Christian worldview that assigned humanity a clear place in the world.<br />In the popular imagination, Nietzsche's idea of the Ubermensch is one of his most memorable and significant ideals.  However, the concept of the Ubermensch is actually discussed little in the book.  The topic is the theme of the first speech in &quot;Zarathustra's Prologue,&quot; which he presents to a crowd gathered for a circus.  The audience interprets Zarathustra as a circus barker and the speech as an introduction to a performance by a tightrope walker.  The concept is mentioned recurrently in Part I as something of a refrain to Zarathustra's speeches.  But the word Ubermensch rarely occurs after that. <br />Additionally, the notion of the Ubermensch is presented in more imagistic than explanatory terms.  The Ubermensch, according to Zarathustra, is continually experimental, willing to risk all for the enhancement of humanity.  The Ubermensch aspires to greatness, but Zarathustra does not formulate any more specific characterization of what constitutes the enhancement of humanity or greatness.  He does, however, contrast the Ubermensch to the last man, the human type whose sole desire is personal comfort and happiness.  Such a person is the &quot;last man&quot; quite literally, incapable of the desire that is required to create beyond oneself in any form, including that of having children.<br />Zarathustra's opening speech, besides proposing the Ubermensch as the ideal for humanity also places emphasis on this world as opposed to any future world. In particular, Zarathustra urges that human beings reassess the value of their own bodies, indeed their embodiment.  For too long, dreaming of the afterlife, Western humanity has treated the body as a source of sin and error.  Zarathustra, in contrast, insists that the body is the ground of all meaning and knowledge, and that health and strength should be recognized and sought as virtues.<br />Another prominent theme in Zarathustra is its emphasis on the relative importance of will.  In part, this emphasis follows Schopenhauer in claiming that will is more fundamental to human beings than knowledge. However, Nietzsche stresses the will's attempt to enhance its power, whereas he views Schopenhauer as placing greater stress on the will's efforts at self preservation.  Nietzsche's famous conception of will to power makes one of its few published appearances in Zarathustra.<br />Much of the plot of Zarathustra concerns his efforts to formulate his idea of eternal recurrence.  At times, the idea possesses him in the form of visions and dreams.  At others, he seems reluctant to state it categorically or to accept its implications.  During a particularly despairing moment, he shudders at the implication of his doctrine that &quot;the rabble,&quot; the petty people who comprise most of the human race, will also recur.  The fact that Zarathustra objects to the recurrence of the rabble is indicative of Nietzsche's elitism.  Consistently, Nietzsche and Zarathustra contend that human beings are not equal.  Nietzsche objects to the democratic movements of his era in favor of more aristocratic forms of social organization that would place control in the hands of the talented, of necessity, not the majority.	2000-09-30
2264514:US	50718004	R1KUCFV91ST93	0821224581	925986418	A Season in Hell	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Anguished and Brilliant	In the collection of prose poems and verse fragments that make up the short book A Season in Hell, begun in April 1873 in an outbuilding at Rimbaud's family farm at the village of Roche and completed by the end of August, he looks back in despair over his life as a poet.  In one of the fragments, titled &quot;Ravings number two&quot; he talks about &quot;the history of one of my follies.&quot;  &quot;I invented the colors of the vowels!&quot; he claims, and goes on:  &quot;I flattered myself that I had created a poetic language accessible...to all the senses...I expressed the inexpressible.  I defined vertigos...I ended up regarding my mental disorder as sacred.&quot;   <br />Rimbaud draws a picture of his affair with Verlaine in cynical terms, painting Verlaine as a weak and foolish virgin and himself as an &quot;infernal bridegroom,&quot; a monster of cruelty.  It wasn't far from the truth.<br />The last chapter of A Season in Hell is titled &quot;Farewell.&quot;  It has an air of exhaustion and relief about it.  &quot;I have tried to invent new flowers, new stars, new flesh, new tongues.  I believed I had acquired supernatural powers.  Well!  I must bury my imagination and my memories.  A fine fame as an artist and story-teller swept away!  I!  I who called myself magus or angel, exempt from all morality, I am given back to the earth, with a task to pursue, and wrinkled reality to embrace.  A peasant!&quot;   A Season In Hell was finished in August 1873.  Rimbaud somehow persuaded his thrifty mother to pay to have the book printed in Belgium.  He sent his six author's copies to his friends and to men of letters in Paris.  Many people see this manuscript as his farewell to literature.  It certainly reads like that, although Enid Starkie believes that it was Rimbaud's farewell to a certain kind of literature--visionary, mystical, growing out of the selfish and hallucinatory lifestyle that had crashed to a halt only a few months before with his shooting and the jailing of Verlaine--and a commitment to something more humble and realistic.  &quot;Well, now I shall ask forgiveness for having fed on lies,&quot; Rimbaud wrote.  He hoped that the French literary world would offer him the forgiveness that he was now prepared to seek, and give his book favorable reviews.  He the proceeded to Paris to see how his book had fared.<br />Favorable reviews?  He must have been mad.  To those literary men, the dilettantes Rimbaud had mocked and despised a year or two earlier, Rimbaud was the insolent catamite who had destroyed their old friend Verlaine:  sponged off him, wrecked his marriage, corrupted his soul and ruined his life, and then, when he had used him up, had turned him in to the police to face hard labor in a Belgian jail.<br />We have an eyewitness account of Rimbaud on the day when the last door in Paris had been slammed in his face, at the moment when he realized that the literary career he'd embraced so passionately was over.  It was the evening of the first of November, 1873, a holiday, and the cafés and restaurants were crowded.  The poet Poussin had joined some writer friends at the Café Tabourey.  He noticed a young man alone in a corner, staring into space.  It was Rimbaud.  Poussin went over and offered to buy him a drink.  &quot;Rimbaud was pale and even more silent than usual,&quot; he later recalled.  &quot;His face, indeed his whole bearing, expressed a powerful and fearsome bitterness.&quot;  For the rest of his life Poussin &quot;retained from that meeting a memory of dread.&quot; <br />When the café closed, Rimbaud--who hadn't spoken to anyone all evening--set out to walk home through the late autumn countryside.  It took him about a week.  When he got to Charleville he built a bonfire and burned all his manuscripts.  He didn't bother to collect the remaining five hundred copies of his book from the printer--they moldered there until they were discovered by a Belgian lawyer in 1901.  That should have been the end of it.  But Rimbaud couldn't quite let go.  The following year in London he carefully copied out his prose poems, gathered under the title Illuminations.  The year after that he tried to get them published.  For the anguished but brilliant Rimbaud, giving up poetry must have been akin to weaning himself from a potent drug.	2000-09-30
2264619:US	50718004	R8MATSSL0OWXU	0486264645	489174445	Heart of Darkness (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Darkness at the Heart of Mankind	Heart of Darkness, by Joseph Conrad is a story that connects the audience to the narrator's senses most perfectly.  We come to understand the environment, the setting, the other characters and Kurtz strictly from the narrator's first-person point-of-view, as he experiences things. <br />We are not able to see how the world views him.  Is he seen as superior, a drone, a sailor?  His dreamlike consciousness navigates us, the readers, down the river as if we are a part of the flow of things, ripples in the water, patches of the darkness. <br />Conrad uses language to paint images in our minds.  He poignantly uses metaphors such as, &quot;In exterior he resembled a butcher in a poor neighborhood&quot; to animate those images and allow them to breathe a bit. <br />His choice of words and word combinations, his poetic tone, his elegant style and smooth transitions craft a superbly sensual experience.  He is, on the surface, talking about the exploration of man in Africa with all of its physical and moral dilemmas, and yet the underbelly is the interior of man, an endeavor to touch the reader at his core.  &quot;Each station should be like a beacon on the road towards better things, a center for trade of course, but also for humanizing, improving, instructing.&quot;  When Conrad says that the &quot;germs of empires&quot; floated into man's head, &quot;ebbing down the river into the mystery of an unknown earth,&quot; his metaphors appeal emotionally to something deeply serious; a commentary on the heart of man. <br />Our senses are assaulted with tastes and surfaces, sounds and images.  The &quot;tremor of far-off drums,&quot; the &quot;silence driven away by the stamping of our feet,&quot; and the &quot;heads on the stakes&quot; are nothing if they are not sensual.  When we read, &quot;she rang under my feet like an empty Huntley &amp; Palmer biscuit-tin kicked along the gutter,&quot; we can see it and hear it and almost feel the vibrations of the tin. <br />Conrad portrays darkness as being universal.  All men can relate to the drums, there's a great passage where Conrad explicitly says so, &quot;Ugly.  Yes, it was ugly enough; but if you were man enough you would admit to yourself that there was in you just the faintest trace of a response to the terrible frankness of that noise, a dim suspicion of there being a meaning in it which you--you so remote from the night of first ages--could comprehend.&quot;  There are implicit phrases as well, woven neatly around the events.  &quot;I assure you that never before, did this land, this river, this jungle, the very arch of this blazing sky, appear to me so hopeless, and so dark.&quot;  The narrator, himself, even wonders about his own darkness.  In the book the darkness is related to health, to success, to savages, and  to humanity.  To all things. <br />Memory verses sense of memory:  Kurtz's story couldn't be real memory, but only perceptions of memory, mutated with time, flourished by the total experience.  We know that Conrad himself underwent experiences similar to those of the narrator of his story.  Are we to then assume that the writer's memory has been fictionalized? <br />The rape of the land, the consequences to the soul, the temptation of solitude, become a dark challenge, constructing moral dilemmas.  Kurtz discovers, &quot;He was empty inside.&quot;  His words, &quot;the horror, the horror&quot; display what he, homself, had become at the end. <br />There was a homologous hegemony.  For as much as the natives were influenced by the white men's guns and mechanical wonders, the whites didn't have a chance of not being influenced themselves.  &quot;(White) men that come out here should have no entrails.&quot;  They were savages, even the pisher assistant to Kurtz, who couldn't discern taking the human heads off the stakes in the ground.  Kurtz began his journey believing he wasn't corrupt like the others, he perceived himself as being in control.  But the jungle changes all whoenter it.  They become wild and uncivilized.  For all of their manicuring and white collared shirts, their symbolic clinging to systems that didn't apply, they acted as beasts.  &quot;His starched collars and got-up shirt fronts were achievements of character.&quot; <br />&quot;Just kill this guy if we need to...there are no laws here.&quot;   Yet, there were laws.  There were natural laws.  The geographically transplanted white men were so far removed from imposed structured laws, that they were ill equipped to survive in nature, to respond to its own innate laws.  Civilized man no longer saw himself as part of nature.  He was not just separate but superior and impious.   He irresponsibly answered to no one.  He was corrupt, imprisoning the natives, stealing from them, plundering the earth's ivory, murdering anyone he wanted. <br />Conrad's own description sums up the heart of darkness portrayed so vividly in this book:  &quot;They wandered here and there with their absurd long staves in their hands, like a lot of faithless pilgrims bewitched inside a rotten fence.  The word `ivory' rang in the air, was  whispered, was sighed.  You would think they were praying to it.  A taint of imbecile rapacity blew through it all, like a whiff from some corpse.   By Jove!  I've never seen anything so unreal in my life.  And outside the silent wilderness surrounding this clear speck on the earth struck me as something great and invincible, like evil or truth, waiting patiently for the passing away of this fantastic invasion.&quot;	2000-09-30
2264620:US	50718004	R1BOX120QVP829	0521599636	347037615	Daybreak: Thoughts on the Prejudices of Morality (Cambridge Texts in the History of Philosophy)	Books	5	66	68	N	N	One Size Does Not Fit All	Daybreak:  Thoughts On Moral Prejudices (1881) goes further than Human All Too Human in elaborating Nietzsche's critique of Christian morality.  It is perhaps also more masterful than the earlier work in its artful use of aphoristic juxtaposition to engage the reader in his or her own reflections.  Indeed, Nietzsche seems bent on conveying a particular type of experience in thinking to his readers, much more than he is concerned in persuading his readers to adopt any particular point of view.<br />Nietzsche criticized the Christian moral world view on a number of grounds that he was to develop further in his later works.  His basic case rests on psychological analyses of the motivations and effects that stem from the adoption of the Christian moral perspective.  In this respect, Daybreak typifies Nietzsche's ad hominem approach to morality.  Nietzsche asks primarily, &quot;What kind of person would be inclined to adopt this perspective?&quot; and &quot;What impact does this perspective have on the way in which its adherent develops and lives?&quot;<br />Nietzsche argues that the concepts that Christianity uses to analyze moral experience--especially sin and the afterlife--are entirely imaginary and psychologically pernicious.  These categories deprecate human experience, making its significance appear more vile than it actually is.  Painting reality in a morbid light, Christian moral concepts motivate Christians to adopt somewhat paranoid and hostile attitudes toward their own behavior and that of others.  Convinced of their own sinfulness and worthiness of eternal damnation, Christians are driven to seek spiritual reassurance at tremendous costs in terms of their own mental health and their relationships to others.<br />For instance, Christians feel that they need to escape their embodied selves because they are convinced of their own sinfulness.  They are convinced of their own failure insofar as they believe themselves sinners and believe themselves to be bound by an unfulfillable law of perfect love.  In order to ameliorate their sense of guilt and failure, Nietzsche contends, they look to others in the hope of finding them even more sinful than themselves.  Because the Christian moral worldview has convinced its advocates that their own position is perilous, Christians are driven to judge others to be sinners in order to gain a sense of power over them.  The Christian moral worldview thus paradoxically encourages uncharitable judgments of others, despite its praise of neighbor love.<br />The fundamental misrepresentation of reality offered by the Christian moral worldview provokes dishonesty in its adherents, particularly in appraisals of themselves and others.  It also encourages them to despise earthly life in favor of another reality (one that Nietzsche claims does not exist).  Still further psychological damage to the believer results from the Christian moral worldview's insistence on absolute conformity to a single standard of human behavior.  Nietzsche contends that one size does not fit all where morality is concerned, and that most of the best and strongest individuals are least capable of living according to the mold.  Nevertheless, Christians are urged to abolish their individual characters, and to the extent that they fail to do so they reinforce their own feelings of inadequacy.<br />Nietzsche's picture of Christian morality seems dismal. He regards it as the motivation for attitudes that are self-denigrating, vindictive towards others, escapist, and anti-life.  Nietzsche never alters this basic assessment of the moral framework of his own tradition; instead, he continues to develop these themes in all his later discussions of morality and ethics.	2000-09-30
2264621:US	50718004	R1HFPB8JL2QAU4	0394704371	572787164	The Will to Power	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Opus Magnum	This is Nietzsche's opus magnum.  It contains collected notes and unfinished chapters from 1884-1888.  Published posthumously by his sister, this book contains his biography and all of his essential themes and philosophies.  In it he talks about the Ubermensch.  For Nietzsche, the Ubermensch is the man who has overcame himself and grows each day.  He is the one who reveals his will to power on the environment that surrounds him.  He lives in the moment of each and every second.  He is the man who has organized his passions of chaos and is disciplined.  He is the ultimate artist who has created himself and given himself a specific style.  He lives without resentment and, if able to live his life over again, would; which is another new theme, eternal reoccurrence which states that history of the world repeats itself over and over again and we live our lives again and again.  This idea is both revolutionary and skeptical, yet it was another idea from a revolutionary thinker.  In The Will To Power, Nietzsche talks of all his ideas:  The Antichrist, Christian Morality and Art.  He talks of life being a beautiful piece of art and how one must be the artist of his own life.  The Will to Power suggests that one will become more and more influential to his surrounding atmosphere.  One must make more and more effects through his creations, but one mustn't become too complex or he will lose more and more power.  There is some speculation that Nietzsche's sister and her husband arranged many of Nietzsche's notes after his death and may have changed many things in his original notes.  His sister was anti-semitic and Nietzsche did not organize his thoughts on paper as well as he organized his passions.  Still, this is Nietzsche's opus magnum, the one book that contains all of his thoughts and philosophies and conclusions.	2000-09-30
2264672:US	50718004	R1FG4MLUVS2BN1	0156008351	77641626	Shipwrecks (Harvest Book)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	When is a Crime Not a Crime?	Shipwrecks is a tale of a town's destruction told through one resident's eyes.  The witness in Yoshimura's novel is Isaku, who, at the beginning of the book is only a nine year old boy.  His small fishing village is balancing precariously between a meager life and death by starvation.  Family by family, the inhabitants stave off total collapse only through selling their individual kin into slavery in the town across the mountains.<br />After Isaku's father has been removed from the home in just such an arrangement, the boy continues to live with his mother and younger brother and sister, Isokichi and Kane.  The story is, in some ways, the tale of Isaku's loss of innocence as he attempts to fulfill the duties of head of the household--fishing for saury and sardines and octopus and squid, and, most importantly, tending the salt cauldrons.  For Isaku, this represents a confirmation of his own maturation, for the salt cauldrons are of prime importance to the town and its people.<br />A naïve boy, Isaku comes to learn that, in addition to boiling the salt out of sea water to sell, the fires on shore serve another, more sinister, purpose--that of luring unsuspecting trading ships onto the reef.  The village calls it O-fune-sama and sees it--the destruction of those ships and the subsequent murder of their sailors, as a gift from the gods, no different from any other harvest, such as rice and pottery, cloth and utensils.  Far from being a crime, what the villagers are now engaged in nourishes the small town and keeps it from dying.<br />Even as Isaku learns about the inherent risks--specifically those of luring clan ships to ruin instead of trading ships--O-fune-sama is never questioned:  it is a necessity and a customary part of the yearly cycle; there is no moral question to be answered...other than the town's quiet acknowledgment that no one beyond the village must know.<br />In this small book, time unfolds at a leisurly, but disquieting, pace.  There is a quiet passing of the seasons in which normalcy seems to prevail:  couples wed, children are born, elderly persons die.  As Isaku's father is not due to return for years, a routine finally settles in and it is time to fish for saury, then squid, then octopus.  And, when the trade ships are running again, it is time for O-fune-sama.<br />One year, however, the inevitable happens and there is retribution for the town's crimes.<br />Shipwrecks is a horrifying and tragic book that unfolds slowly and deliberately.  Because the village situation is grim and its needs are clear, Isaku's grasp of the situation is understandable; the reader can definitely sympathize...and empathize.  And this is what makes the inevitable punishment so personally tragic and sad, yet so very morally justified.	2000-09-30
2264719:US	50718004	RKR6R0G4E2LAK	0451527097	705074922	One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich (Signet Classics)	Books	4	6	10	N	N	Stoic Austerity	Solzhenitsyn, himself, said, &quot;Literature that is not the very breath of contemporary society does not deserve the name of literature...the pain and fears of society must be held before it, society must be warned against the moral and social dangers which threaten it.&quot;<br />Hisotry, to Solzhenitsyn, as it was to Tolstoy, is the theatre and arena in which the abominations as well as the glories of human behavior are revealed at their most powerful and on the grandest scale.<br />For Solzhenitsyn, however, the tragedies of individuals are not decreed by fate, as they were for Tolstoy.  Solzhenitsyn sees instead tragedies as parts, packets or &quot;knots&quot; (uzly) of an even larger tragedy.  The very things that debase their victims are, for Solzhenitsyn, not the result of &quot;historical necessity,&quot; but rather a part of a larger evil, e.g., Soviet society.<br />Solzhenitsyn is not a revolutionary, however, he is an artist.  At times his retelling of the history of twentieth century Russia is stark, bleak and unadorned, however in relating the results of events, Solzhenitsyn always seeks out the causes which have brought about the historical consequences.  The major actions occurring in history, as Solzhenitsyn sees it, are due to the consciously-defined motivations of human beings.<br />For Solzhenitsyn, tragedy is distinctly non-classical and non-Tolstoyan.  Heroic characters are not tragically-flawed, innocent victims as they are for Tolstoy.  Solzhenitsyn's works are, instead, populated with persons who are either intrinsically evil or intrinsically good.  For him, the intrinsically evil certainly outnumber the intrinsically good, although they do not necessarily defeat them.  This is a distinctly non-classical, non-nineteenth century view.<br />For Solzhenitsyn, men create their own tragedy and history and they are the ones who must shoulder the blame.<br />Solzhenitsyn's style of writing is economical and unadorned.  His motto might well be &quot;wie es eigentlich gewesen,&quot; or &quot;tell it like it is.&quot;  As such, he writes in the everyday language of the labor camps.  This causes much confusion in translation although it reads perfectly well in the original Russian.<br />In fact, many &quot;unprintable&quot; Russian words can be found in One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovitch, all rendered with the frankness of a Henry Miller novel.  Solzhenitsyn, however, uses obscenities, not to shock, but to show how debased human beings can become.<br />The blunt language used by Solzhenitsyn lends an &quot;immediacy and sincerity of tone&quot; to his work.  His scenes are enhanced by this device, whether it be a scene in the barracks, at a construction site, or during friskings and body counts.<br />One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovitch is told in the &quot;skaz&quot; or folktale manner in the Russian tradition of Pilniak, Zamyatin and Babel, not to mention prerevolutionary writers like Leskov and Gogol.  In the skaz tradition, the storyteller, or narrator, shares the same level as the main character in the story.  The skaz strategy for storytelling permits the author to insert much &quot;local color&quot; into the story as well as humorous or ironic observations and commentary.<br />The narrator in One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovitch allows the reader to participate in situations and to listen to conversations as if he were really there.  This is further enhanced by the fact that the language employed is, at times, quite simple and slangy and filled with &quot;zek argot.&quot;<br />Solzhenitsyn, however, established no clear dividing line between Shukhov's speaking and his own speaking.  At times, this device necessitates that the reader take great care in untangling an unspoken monologue of Shukhov from an external observation made by the author through the third person narrator.<br />Additionally, when Shukov, himself, is speaking in dialogue, it is difficult to know whether he is speaking to the reader or to another character.<br />It is obvious that Solzhenitsyn has employed a number of literary techniques in the telling of One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovitch.  His message in this book, as well as in other books is to convey the raw truth in all its bleakness.  In avoiding lengthy sentences and ornamental descriptions (a la Dickens or Dostoyevsky), Solzhenitsyn accomplishes a stoic austerity in style equal to the stoic austerity of his scenes in a Siberian labor camp.	2000-09-30
2264864:US	50718004	R26AZXQVOUK4LW	0451450523	22804953	The Last Unicorn	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Post-Modern Fantasy of the Highest Order	Hidden away in a lilac wood, the last unicorn cares little for the outside world.  After all, she is magic and she is immortal.  However, when she hears that she might be the only unicorn left in the world, she sets out on a journey to see if there are any of her kind left.  After being captured by a freak show she meets and joins forces with a bumbling magician, Schmendrick, and later, a middle aged maiden, Molly Grue.  Together these three embark on a quest that will take them into the dangerous realm of King Haggard.  It will be here that the last unicorn will have to face her nemesis, the Red Bull, in order to free the rest of her kind. <br />To a large extent, Peter Beagle's book is considered an interesting work of fantasy because it was one of the first post-modern science fiction novels.  The most salient feature of post-modern science fiction is a rebellion against the classical fantasy/science fiction novel that creates a world that is completely separate from our own.  In this traditional world the characters say and do things that are completely in line with the small universe that the author has created in his novel.  The author strives to draw the reader completely into the story.  Beagle rebels against this by creating a novel that constantly pulls the reader out of the novel, back in to the real world, only to slide back into the plot.  The Last Unicorn is a novel that is written in this post-modern style, of which many examples can be found. <br />Beagle does not immediately strike you with his departure from traditional fantasy.  The unicorn lives in a lilac wood all by herself, in what is seemingly a medieval world.  There are kings and wizards and peasants.  But just when the reader is being drawn into this &quot;other&quot; world, Beagle introduces a character to disrupt it in the form of a talking butterfly.  The thing that pulls the reader out of Beagle's world, back into his own, is not the butterfly's ability to talk (that, after all, is nottoo bizarre in a fantasy novel), but what he has to say.  Among the many things that do not belong in a traditional fantasy novel, but work well in a post-modern one, are the butterflies' references to Shakespeare &quot;you're a fishmonger,&quot; children's singalongs &quot;you are my sunshine,&quot; and songs from America's pop culture &quot;Won't you come home, Bill Bailey, won't you come home.&quot;<br />Now, a veteran of fantasy could probably come up with a list of science fiction cliches that could explain this odd knowledge.  Perhaps the butterfly learned these phrases by falling into a wormhole and spending time in our world.  Maybe the butterfly is in fact a traveler from our world, secretly disguised.  Or, perhaps this is really some bizarre post-apocalyptic world where after many millions of years and genetic mutation, the new inhabitants of our planet are uncovering our twentieth-century pop culture.  But this, like other details in Beagle's novel that clearly do not fit in with the rest of the story, and are not easily explained away. <br />Evidence of Beagle's unorthodox style can be seen later when Schmendrick and Molly are taken captive by Captain Cully.  Schmendrick tries to flatter the outlaw by pretending that he has heard of many of the outlaw's exploits.  As Cully begins to fall for this, he becomes much more friendly with Schmendrick, offering the wizard a place by his fire, an invitation to talk of what people supposedly say about Cully in other countries, and with a unique twist, a taco.  An odd foodstuff for outlaws seemingly modeled after Robin Hood.  Later, Schmendrick spends a good part of the night making up stories about the glories of Captain Cully.  The reader learns later on that most of these tales came from his &quot;good grounding in Anglo-Saxon folklore.&quot; <br />Beagle uses many other small descriptions to rip the reader out of his fantasy world.  At one point a prince is described &quot;reading a magazine.&quot;   At another point, Prince Lir is described as having armor that is partially made of bottlecaps. <br />A more subtle example of post-modern fantasy is the birth of Prince Lir.  The Prince was found on butcher's block, warm despite the fact that it was snowing, surrounded by stray cats.  As Drinn, the villager that found him said &quot;it purred prophecy.&quot;   But it is at this point that Beagle breaks the spell.  If this were a traditional fantasy, Drill would have become the foster parent for the boy and raised him.  But this is not traditional fantasy.  Drill instead scares away the cats and leaves the baby to what he expects will be death; because, he fears that the child that seems to have an aura of destiny around him might grow to be the one that brings down the prophecy of doom that had been cursed upon his town by a witch. <br />These are just a few of the many examples that make The Last Unicorn a very different, but very beautiful, kind of fantasy.  The post-modern style of fantasy, or the fantastic, has had a hard time being accepted by many hard core fantasy fans.  Many critics do not like novels that try to constantly toss the reader back and forth between the world of fantasy in the book, and the real world.  These people find it very hard to take the story seriously.  Others, however, are able to enjoy the beauty of a book such as this.  They see The Last Unicorn and books like it as a fantasy novel that does not take itself too seriously, and can use references from real life as a form of humor and another form of expression in the novel.  Imagination, after all, isn't a bad thing to have, especially in a fantasy world.<br />The Last Unicorn is a beautiful book, one that is filled with holes and spaces that draw you into its beauty and let you become a part of its creation.	2000-09-30
2264894:US	50718004	R32FTHUU72QWHA	0060997036	200558803	Laughable Loves	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Small and Complex Fairy Tale	In this small and complex work, Kundera criticizes the hypocrisy of formal faiths in favor of a more illogically, emotionally-based spirituality.  This story, told in the style of a fairy tale, is framed with mystical language and ideas.  At the beginning, Edward, having never even considered believing in God, comes to perceive a way in which God can help him win Alice.  Even more than in The Joke, the characters of Edward and God represent rigid ideas rather than natural people.  Alice uses her religiosity as a means of superiority over others, superficially to defy the hated communists.  Her comical God of no Fornication is devoid of any abstraction, and hence, ridiculous.<br />At the other end of the spectrum, the Communists are equally portrayed as spiritually poor.  The narrator speaks bluntly of their motives, &quot;thanks to religion they can stand again in all their glory on the correct side and retain that so habitual and precious sense of their own superiority.&quot;  The validity of both of these institutions (Christianity and the Soviet personality) begin to deteriorate early on.  In Edward and Alice's theological arguments, they both make uninformed contentions, indicating their superficial understanding of religious doctrine.<br />Edward's own experiences among such seemingly strong beliefs comes to have no deeper meaning for him, either.  They unintentionally (and humorously) become twisted avenues by which he, too, can attain power.  When Alice lifts her sexual prohibitions so easily, without a turnabout in her soul, she abandons her former mechanism of vengeance (organized religion) for what she perceives to be a stronger one (solidarity with Edward).  By employing such obviously exaggerated and manipulated behavior, I do not think Kundera is criticizing the basic notions behind religion and socialism, but instead the perversion and abuse of these purer ideas.<br />In the end, the experience of such hollowness leaves Edward disillusioned.  He suddenly longs to have God in his life and to believe in God's existence, as God &quot;is essence itself...the essential opposite of this unessential world.&quot;<br />The reader, however, is left with only an ambiguous, mystical conclusion since Kundera deliberately leaves the story open to individual interpretation.  I, personally, see the last chapter as Kundera once again having the last laugh, perhaps telling us not to take life, or love, too seriously.	2000-09-30
2264897:US	50718004	R242IXRQRTZXNZ	0486282082	610786424	Dr. Faustus (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	36	40	N	N	The Best Retelling of the Faust Legend	In the Faust legend, a man by the name of Faust or Faustus sells his soul to the devil for twenty-four years of worldly power.  This legend has been told many times over by such writers as Goethe and Mann, but no doubt the most famous retelling, and probably the best, is the play, Doctor Faustus by Christopher Marlowe.<br />The most prominent influence on Marlowe's version of the Faust legend was the social upheaval during the time period in which it was written.  Doctor Faustus was probably first performed in 1594, a time of tremendous change in Europe.  The Medieval times were over and the Renaissance was beginning, however, influences of both times can be found in the play.  Doctor Faustus is a transitional play where beliefs from both time periods intermingle, sometimes with disastrous results.<br />Doctor Faustus, himself, is a man torn between two traditions.  He is a man with medieval beliefs, but renaissance aspirations.  When he first attempts to conjure Mephistopheles, Faustus believe that Mephistopheles was forced to come by his (Faustus's) words.  In response, Mephistopheles says, &quot;for when we hear one rack the name of God, abjure the Scriptures and his savior Christ, we fly in hope to get his glorious soul.&quot;  Mephistopheles has, of course, come of his own accord, because he feels that there is a soul to be had.  He states this blatantly, yet Faustus is clouded by his old beliefs and also by his desires.<br />From a medieval point of view, Doctor Faustus can be looked upon as a morality play; a play about one man who aspires beyond his God-given place in the world.  On the other hand, from a renaissance perspective, this play is a tragedy.  The Renaissance was a time of individuality unlike the Middle Ages where a man was trapped in whatever social class into which he was born.  Faustus is &quot;an essentially good man&quot; by Renaissance ideals who believes he has reached the end of human knowledge and is thus justified is using the black arts to further his knowledge.  As in most classical tragedies, his downfall is complete and is due to his pride.<br />After Faustus makes his deal with Lucifer, the question must be asked:  Is there any way back for him?  Faustus believes he is damned at the moment that he signs his name in blood, although he has many chances to repent during the course of the play.  The first chance comes after his first conjuring.  He says, &quot;O something soundeth in mine ear, 'Abjure this magic, turn to God.'  Aye, and Faustus will turn to God again.  To God?  He loves thee not.&quot;  Something is pleading for Faustus to repent, but Faustus remains firm in believing God has already condemned him.  Each time the Good Angel appears is yet another chance for Faustus to repent, but the Evil Angel continues to threaten him if he even thinks about repenting.  If it were not possible for Faustus to save his soul, then the Evil Angel and his demons would have simply left Faustus alone to cry out in anguish to God.<br />The final indicator that Faustus could have been saved at any point over his twenty-four year bargain is given by Mephistopheles, himself, as Faustus's fate is sealed beyond irrevocability.<br />Christopher Marlowe's brilliant retelling of the Faust legend springs not only from his own creativity, but from the times in which he lived.  Marlowe's life and times allowed him to create the greatest retelling of one of Western cultures more timeless stories.  When put to words, the legend seems so simple, yet its possibilities and implications, as Marlowe proves, can be nothing less than monumental.	2000-09-30
2264901:US	50718004	R3TCX6DTVHBHIU	0060930314	261656203	Identity: A Novel	Books	5	6	8	N	N	I Am Who I Am	Czech-born Milan Kundera now lives in Paris and writes in French.  His characters, not unnaturally, live there as well.  Unlike their creator, however, they are not immigrants.  Their Frenchness is total.  They speak like rive gauche intellectuals and could easily be the protagonists of one of Eric Rohmer's Contes moraux.<br />Their behavior, however, sometimes suggests that they have lived lives elsewhere.  For the characters in Identity, one of the best of Kundera's many novels, seem to echo a couple portrayed in one of his early short stories, one called &quot;The Hitchhiking Game,&quot; and written in Czech while Kundera was still living in Brno.<br />In &quot;The Hitchhiking Game,&quot; a young couple becomes engrossed in a case of lost-and-found identity while playing a flirtatious game.  In the end, the girl cries out, &quot;I am me, I am me, I am me.&quot;  And the reader is left to wonder just who &quot;me&quot; might really be.<br />Chantal, the female protagonist of Identity is the above-mentioned girl's soul sister.  Discomfited by blushing during adolescence, Chantal is now at an age where she is facing menopause, and the blushes have returned to haunt her, this time in the form of hot flushes.  Hot flushes, however, are the least of Chantal's worries.<br />When she becomes fearful that men are no longing pining for her from afar, her lover, Jean-Marc begins to send her a series of unsigned love letters.  This ludicrous gesture, although well-intentioned, leads to an inevitable crisis as Jean-Marc finds himself the engineer of his own undoing.<br />In Jean-Marc's mind, Chantal no longer makes love to him, but to that unknown other, Jean-Marc's own alter ego, his other self.  For her part, Chantal does, indeed, try to conjure up, at crucial moments, that hidden admirer...until she deduces the true writer of the letters.  This revelation, of course, leads to further complications as Chantal mistakenly assumes her fidelity is being tested.<br />Every movein Identity, as in Kundera's other novels, has ironic consequences and every ironic consequence is precisely delineated.  As perceptions change, so do identities, although we are not always sure from what, to what.  Jean-Marc, observing how Chantal's entire personality changes when she enters the advertising agency where she works is forced to wonder which of her masks is the real one; the public one or the private?<br />The ad agency itself, is run by a charismatic charlatan named Leroy, a man of no fixed principle.  He preaches that the only duty of mankind is to provide flesh for the deity, therefore lovemaking is a religious duty.<br />The agency, with its zealous exclusivity, hints at the mindless dedication demanded by Communism (described as the laughter of angels in The Book of Laughter and Forgetting).  Without meaning to do so, Jean-Marc, himself, colludes in this perilous game of amnesia, having absolutely no curiosity about Chantal's previous existence as as wife and the mother of a now-deceased child.<br />In Kundera's novels, people are usually crossing a boundary of some sort.  In Identity the boundary is a literal one:  the border between France and England.  London, home of a priapic fantasy-figure called Britannicus is the omphalos of orgy.  And it is in the Channel Tunnel, so cloaked in Plutonian symbolism, that Chantal comes face to face with her own identity as Jean-Marc is trapped outside.  <br />From this point on, the terrified lovers enter the world of nightmares and they hold tightly to each other in bed, afraid even to blink for fear the object of their desire (or even love) will be forever altered if the gaze of its worshiper is averted even for a nanosecond.<br />Identity is a short but brilliantly-conceived book and one which is a joy to read.  It is definitely one of Kundera's best and will leave you guessing the answer to the phrase that best sums it up:  I am who I am.	2000-09-30
2264921:US	50718004	R1QLRVDA5L8HGP	0151327653	276635923	Foucault's Pendulum	Books	5	13	17	N	N	The Poetry of the Pendulum	Foucault's Pendulum is at once amusing, bewildering, ironic, exceedingly intellectual and extraordinarily beautiful.  This adventure is a detective story about the search for the center of an ancient, still-living conspiracy of men who seek, not only power over the earth itself, but also over the psychic powers that abide on earth and who, ultimately, draw their pursuers into a circle of awareness where even the very discovery of truth proves to be lethal.<br />Foucault's Pendulum can be inordinately difficult to follow; its encyclopedic richness of historical detail breaks any smooth transparency of prose, but then, this book was never meant to be easy.  It is, however, a complex artifact of Eco's post-modern aesthetic at work in a traditional literary form:  in this case a detective thriller.<br />The narrator of Foucault's Pendulum is Causaubon, a scholar who writes his doctoral dissertation on the Knights Templar and who establishes himself in Milan as a sort of self-styled Sam Spade of information.  For a price, he will track down any piece of information, even though he seems to know everything already (save for the fact that he is named for the scholar of George Eliot's Middlemarch).<br />Causaubon accepts a job as consultant for the Garmond Press and joins Jacopo Belbo (a no-nonsense Piedmontese) and Diotallevi (an ex-foundling Piedmontese, who fancies himself Jewish).  These three men spend most of their time drunk or bored, creating parodic word games and ridiculing anyone who takes himself too seriously.  Belbo's favorite sentence is one he likes to use in the presence of pretentiousness, &quot;Ma gavte la nata,&quot; which, loosely translated, means, &quot;Remove the cork and let the wind out.&quot;<br />Eventually this trio, in their research for a book entitled The History of Metals, advertise for manuscripts about the diabolical histories of secret societies.  They decide, as a game, to feed all the hermetic plots that ever were into their computer.The results go beyond even their most paranoid fantasy:  the unexplained phenomena of history, they find, can be fitted into a single, cosmic plan that embraces opposites.  What every major society of Europe, from the thirteenth century onward, has always wanted to know is now in control of the Earth's &quot;telluric currents,&quot; the psychic forces which control the land, seas and skies.<br />An ultimate conspiracy, that synthesizes all possible conspiracies is uncovered.  A plot is unearthed, though what the trio is now plotting against is not so precisely defined.  Eco, however, is a professor of semiotics, a grand master of codes, signs and hidden meanings.  The obsessiveness of his three Italians becomes contagious and soon, no single fact seems innocent.<br />The truly remarkable thing about Foucault's Pendulum is how compelling &quot;the Plan&quot; can seem, even though the reader knows it to be false.  It cannot be true, yet we remain engrossed as the word processor groups together facts with its random number generator.  Any resulting coherence must surely be accidental.  As we read, we become as obsessed and irrational as the book's trio, fabricating unlikely &quot;ifs&quot; in order to fit the missing pieces.  When the last pieces finally do fall into place, we feel as exhausted as the novel's characters.<br />The pendulum is question swings in the Conservatoire des Arts et Mètiers in Paris and is a twenty-eight kilo silver ball with a needle point, hanging by a wire from a fixed point on the ceiling sixty-seven meters above.  It was invented by Jean Bernard Léon Foucault to demonstrate the rotation of the earth.  It swings perpetually, given momentum by the instability of the solid floor beneath.  Although it seems harmless, by the book's end it takes a more than sinister turn.<br />The poetry of the pendulum is the poetry of Eco's novel, and of history, itself.  Eco writes his novel as Causaubon, Belbo and Diotallevi write their &quot;Plan;&quot; inorder to rewrite history, a history of which they, themselves become a part.<br />The pendulum looms over the lunacy, scorn and fear of the world because its point of attachment, alone in the universe is fixed, wherever you choose to put it.  This &quot;centeredness,&quot; so desired by the metaphysics of the cabalists's, by Italian scholars's cynicism, of poetry and history, are only possible because of the force which maintains the pendulum.<br />This is, to say the least, a dense book.  It takes more than six hundred pages to get from our first view of the pendulum to the last.  These pages are crammed with information and not with action, but it is information that is fascinating to know and to read about.<br />In the meantime, all three of Eco's heroes discover with alarm that neither their parody not their &quot;Plan&quot; can protect them from a universe ruled simultaneously by both and neither.  Diotallevi is the first to meet a less-than-happy fate, Belbo is next, as, in the Paris Conservatoire, at midnight, in the pendulum room, he confronts his fiction-turned-reality.  Causaubon's final monologue reflects the uncertainty with which he, too, awaits his final fate.	2000-09-30
2264923:US	50718004	R3VUN1IBF68KY2	0679723161	636015448	Lolita	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Perversity of the Most Original and Brilliant Kind	Vladimir Nabokov's Lolita was first issued in 1955 by an unorthodox Paris press after being rejected by a string of American publishers, banned by the French government (presumably out of solicitude for immature English-speaking readers, although the ban was later quashed by the French High Court), pronounced unobjectionable (surprisingly) by the U.S. Customs Office, and heralded with ovations from writers, professors and critics on both sides of the Atlantic.<br />Lolita's scandal-tinted history, as well as its subject matter--an affair between a middle-aged sexual pervert and a twelve-year-old girl--certainly conjure up visions of pornography.  But to the credit of the genius of Nabokov, there is not one single obscene term in Lolita and fans of erotica are likely to find this amazing novel more than a little boring.<br />Lolita, however, fairly blazes with a perversity of the most original and brilliant kind.  From his shocking premise, Nabokov has distilled hundred-proof, intellectual farce.  Lolita is slightly reminiscent of Thomas Mann's Confessions of Felix Krull, but Lolita has a much stronger sense of comic genius and is more brilliantly written.  Nabokov, although a Russian émigré, has few rivals for virtuosity in the handling of the English language.<br />In a mock sententious forward, Nabokov explains that the manuscript that follows is the confession of one Humbert Humbert, a man whose fate you learn at the outset of the book.  Humbert introduces himself as a European of &quot;mixed stock&quot; who, at the age of twelve, &quot;in a princedom by the sea,&quot; loved and lost a petite fille fatale named Annabel Leigh and thereafter has dutifully remained in sexual bondage to &quot;the perilous magic&quot; of preteen sirens, whom he calls, &quot;nymphets.&quot;<br />There follows a sketch of his tortured career up to the time when, in his late thirties, he settles in a quiet New England town under the same roof as the most fatal of fatally seductive nymphets, Delores Haze, herself a mixture of &quot;tender dreamy childishness and eerie vulgarity.&quot;  This nymphet, Dolores, is &quot;Lolita,&quot; the daughter of Humbert's landlady, whom he regards with murderous intent.  <br />Circumstances conspire to make Humbert the guardian of Lolita, his darling, and on their first night together she proves to be utterly depraved in a way in which Humbert could never have imagined, but no doubt would have loved to do so.  Their subsequent motel-hopping trek across America is climaxed by Lolita's escape and Humbert's eventual revenge on a rival.<br />What on earth are we to make of a novel as daringly brilliant and original as Lolita?  Nabokov, himself, dismissed the book's satiric aspects and said it was simply a story he had to get off his chest.  That all of this is simply too ingenious is more than evident from the parodic style in which Lolita is written:  a playful combination of pastiches of well-known styles, spoofing pedantry, analysis of passion à la français, Joycean word games, puns and all kind of verbal antics.  Wild, fantastic and wonderfully imaginative, Lolita manages to parody everything it touches.  It surely justifies those who have seen this book as a satire of the romantic novel, of &quot;Old Europe&quot; and &quot;Young America,&quot; of &quot;chronic American adolescence and shabby materialism.&quot;<br />But above all, Lolita remains a brilliant assertion of the power of the comic spirit to wrest sheer delight and absolute truth from the most outlandish of situations.  Lolita is one of the funniest books ever written; the vision of its abominable hero, who never deludes or excuses himself, brings into grotesque relief the vulgarity and the hypocrisy that pervade the human comedy we call...life.	2000-09-30
2265014:US	50718004	R3LOMP9YVZOUO8	1862072574	40818551	Rodinsky's Room	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A Little Too Much Authorial Intrusion	David Rodinsky disappeared from his room at 19 Princelet Street, an old synagogue in London's Spitalfields in 1969 and was not thought about again until his room was reopened in 1980.  Inside were papers and personal effects, notes and books in many languages, cabalistic diagrams and dictionaries.  David Rodinsky, who had failed to attract much attention during the years of his disappearance, was now attracting the imagination of a number of people.<br />One of those attracted was Iain Sinclair, who wrote an article about Rodinsky called, &quot;The Man Who Became a Room.&quot;  Rodinsky, easily categorized as a recluse and a scholar, was, of necessity, reduced to all that was left of him, i.e., all that was found in his room.  A young Jewish art student, Rachel Lichtenstein, who was researching the thesis she intended to write concerning the immigration of Jews to the East End, became entranced with Rodinsky's room, which by the 1990s had assumed near-mythic proportions.  Lichtenstein, who became fascinated by what she found as well as by what she didn't find, spent many of the next years researching and piecing together the life of David Rodinsky.<br />In alternating chapters, Lichtenstein and Sinclair write their own stories and the story of David Rodinsky.  Lichtenstein takes the more archaeological approach; Sinclair's chapters are more analytic.  There is some overlap and the two approaches usually serve to compliment each other well.<br />Lichtenstein's story is the more personal one.  She seems to be in search of her own identity as much as she seems to be in search of Rodinsky's.  Born Rachel Laurence, she changed her name to that of her grandparents.  An Englishwoman who is reclaiming her Jewish heritage, she looks upon Rodinsky as somewhat of a companion in her own quest.<br />Lichtenstein's efforts are impressive.  She clearly sees Rodinsky, forgotten and ignored, as the symbol of London's forgotten Jewish history.  An early scene in the book tells of Lichtenstein's efforts to rescue some of the more historically valuable books from Rodinsky's room.<br />Traveling to both Israel and Poland, Lichtenstein moves away from the mystery of Rodinsky and then draws closer to it again as she comes close to the shetl from which Rodinsky's family no doubt came.<br />A thorough researcher, Lichtenstein examines the mystery of David Rodinsky from every side.  His books tell her that he was a scholar bordering on obsession, while his papers point to a sad, lonely and unexceptional existence.  To her enormous credit, Lichtenstein avoids mythologizing Rodinsky and instead, presents all sides quite clearly, leaving the reader room to form his own interpretations.<br />At times, however, Lichtenstein is guilty of author intrusion as her own quest intrudes into the story she has set out to write.  There are far too many sad and weepy scenes set in Poland, and, while we do not, for one second, doubt Lichtenstein's sincerity, her presentation seems a bit shallow and empty.<br />Sinclair's contributions are interesting and not at all intrusive.  He follows Lichtenstein's progress while he comments and elaborates on it, but he also offers his own interpretation of Rodinsky and his room.  His writing lacks the quality of personal quest so evident in Lichtenstein's, and, as such, it offers a perfect counterpoint to her more emotional narrative.<br />Lichetenstein's closure seems a little contrived and somewhat forced.  Nevertheless, this is an interesting and engrossing book and David Rodinsky, wherever he is, will certainly be remembered as a fascinating piece of history.  It is just too bad he could not be remembered as fascinating human being as well.	2000-09-30
2265140:US	50718004	R160MHBMSZEPVH	0811213935	806295619	The Missing Head of Damasceno Monteiro	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Extremely Well-Written and Surprisingly Light	Like many of Tabucchi's other works, this book is set in Portugal, and this time most of the action takes place in the more provincial northern city of Oporto.  The novel opens there as Manolo the gypsy finds a headless body.<br />The Lisbon journalist, Firmino, working for the tabloid O Acontecimento, and a man of literary ambitions of his own, is sent to Oporto to follow the unfolding story.  This book follows his investigation as he discovers the identity of the dead man, why the crime was committed and the perpetrators.  Tabucchi, never one to write a simple and straightforward story, doesn't begin to do so here.  Although the reader can learn the identity of the dead man without even opening the book and the crime is solved with very little effort, there are undercurrents that wend their way through every page of this novel.<br />Two people assist Firmino in his quest:  Dona Rosa, the woman who runs the pension where Firmino stays in Oporto, and Don Fernando, a lawyer who is better known as Attorney Loton because of his strong resemblance to the actor Charles Laughton.  Both Dona Rosa and Fernando seem a little too sure of themselves, a little too well-connected, to be genuine, but Tabucchi manages to pull this off without resorting to cliches.<br />The crime is based on an actual event that occurred in 1966, during the time of the Salazar dictatorship, although the novel is set in present-day Portugal.  However, the fact that much has remained unchanged in Portugal is a point not to be missed.  The crime, itself, involves drug smuggling and police corruption and brutality by the Guardia National.<br />The characters seem to be, for the most part, outsiders, from Firmino, himself, to the luckless Damasceno Monteiro, to the gypsies, to the transvestite who actually witnessed the killing.<br />Firmino, who files one story after the other regarding this crime, is finally handed all the evidence he needs on a silver platter...right along with the head of DamascenoMonteiro.  It is at this moment that Firmino realizes that he is a pawn and that Don Fernando, huffing and puffing, is leading him on.<br />As is usually the case, the police do not make certain relevant facts public, but these are just the facts the public needs to know in order to ensure that justice prevail.  It is up to poor Firmino to reveal these bits of hidden information, to make sure the whole affair is not swept under the rug and neatly forgotten.  Tabucchi does not provide us with an altogether satisfactory ending, but he does hold open the small possibility that justice will be done.<br />This is a thoughtful novel.  The characters are well-drawn, the descriptions of Oporto are engaging and the prose is smooth and even.  The book is also rich in detail.  Firmino's driving ambition is to write about Elio Vittorini and his influence on the Portuguese novel and he speaks of finding Lukacs's methods useful to his studies.  Don Fenando speaks extensively of being greatly influenced by the legal scholar Hans Kelsen, even having gone so far as to follow him to Berkeley and Geneva as a student.  &quot;His theories about the Grundnorm had become my obsession,&quot; Don Fernando says.<br />This is heady stuff, but Tabucchi handles it well.  Don Fernando often speaks of others, including Freud, Mitscherlich and Jean Amery as well.  Fernando, though, finally chooses to leave theory behind and opt for action instead, defending those who had suffered unnecessarily in courts of law.  Don Fernando's choice of action-over-words has a profound influence on Firmino.<br />For a book about such a heinous crime, The Missing Head of Damasceno Monteiro is surprisingly gentle.  Thoughtful and extremely well-written, it echoes lightly long after one has finished the last page.	2000-09-30
2265163:US	50718004	R36UMTRUSP4SKV	0679724656	862001785	Beyond Good & Evil: Prelude to a Philosophy of the Future	Books	5	31	34	N	N	Nietzsche Against the Grain	Beyond Good And Evil:  Prelude to a Philosophy of the Future represented a shift in Nietzsche's basic goals as an author.  &quot;After the Yes-saying part of my task had been solved, the turn had come for the No-saying, No-doing part:  the revaluation of our values so far, the great war...&quot;<br />Nietzsche goes on to describe Beyond Good and Evil as a &quot;critique of modernity.&quot;  The modernity attacked includes culture broadly construed; but Nietzsche appears to be especially concerned with the direction of philosophy and its role in future history.  Indeed, the subtitle is &quot;Prelude to a Philosophy of the Future.&quot;  The book opens with a Preface and first section that are often witty in criticizing traditional philosophy and its presuppositions.  After the famous opening line about truth being a woman, Nietzsche asks, &quot;Are there not grounds for the suspicion that all philosophers, insofar as they were dogmatists, have been very inexpert about women?&quot;<br />Nietzsche attacks particularly the dogmatism of philosophers.  Philosophers have typically regarded themselves as seekers of truth--but from the book's beginning, Nietzsche casts suspicion on their motives.  Philosophers, he argues, have simply assumed that truth is valuable, without inquiring as to whether this is so.  They have posed their conclusions as objective, while in fact &quot;every great philosophy so far has been...the personal confession of its author and a kind of involuntary and unconscious memoir.&quot;  Unwittingly, philosophers have sought to impose their own moral outlook on nature itself, and read into it what they have wanted to find.<br />Nietzsche proposes a reassessment of the way philosophy has been practiced in physiological and psychological terms, recognizing how much against the grain his approach will seem.<br />Nietzsche proposes a new direction for philosophy, and a different kind of person as philosopher.  Philosophers, according to this view, should befree spirits and great experimentalists, as opposed to the mere &quot;philosophical laborers&quot; that are often thought to be the true philosophers.  The philosopher has &quot;the most comprehensive responsibility&quot; and &quot;the conscience for the over-all development of man,&quot; and should utilize religion, education and political suggestions, although it is more concerned to propose a type of political arrangement (like Plato advocating philosopher-kings) than to argue for specific policies.<br />Central to the agenda of Nietzsche's future philosophers is a reconsideration of the value of conventional morality from a physio-psychological perspective.  For the first time, in Beyond Good and Evil, Nietzsche proposes to develop &quot;a natural history of morals.&quot;  He implies with this formulation that morality can be naturalistically described, that it is not a revelation from another, divine level of reality.<br />Nietzsche goes so far in employing naturalistic terms in his analysis that he describes the morality of his tradition as a &quot;herd morality.&quot;  In other words, people follow the same direction as others for the same reason that cows and sheep follow other cows and sheep.  Nietzsche surely recognizes that many readers will find comparison between their moral beliefs and animal behavior offensive.<br />Nietzsche also suggests that multiple moralities have existed at the same time, and that they reveal their adherent's psychological perspective, which can be either healthy or not healthy.  In particular, he suggests that master morality and slave morality are radically different in outlook.  Master morality, typified by those in positions of power, involves a primary judgment of oneself as good, and a judgment of others in reference to one's own traits.  Slave morality, by contrast, as the moral outlook of those who are oppressed, is primarily concerned with the reactions those in power might have to any contemplated act.  Although slaves hate the master and everything the master represents, they still refer their behavior primarily to their master.  Judging the master with hostility, they come to see him as evil, and only then come to judge themselves as relatively good.  Nietzsche develops this account of master and slave morality much more thoroughly in Toward the Genealogy of Morals.<br />The concept of will to power appears prominently in Beyond Good and Evil.  Again, Nietzsche takes issue with Schopenhauer's emphasis on will to life:  &quot;A living thing seeks above all to discharge its strength--life itself is will to power; self preservation is only one of the direct and frequent results.&quot;  Although emphatic in stressing will, Nietzsche is equally emphatic in denying freedom of the will.  In fact, he considers the defense of freedom of will to be simply a manifestation of the asserters desire for power.<br />Will to power is also enlisted as a potential basis for explaining physiology and physiologically grounded behavior.  Significantly, however, as in many other instances Nietzsche poses this &quot;reduction&quot; as a thought experiment.<br />Nietzsche's perspectivism, however, is discussed in more psychological terms elsewhere in Beyond Good and Evil.  Nietzsche suggests that the perspective different individuals have of human reality depends on their relative stature as human beings.  Nietzsche frequently adopts the image of height, describing those who see others from a higher vantage as having a more comprehensive view that is incommensurable with the perspective of those below them.  Nietzsche emphasizes the importance of this order of rank, and he often claims that the human species consists of a proliferation of types, some of which are more valuable (or higher) than others.  Of greatest importance for Nietzsche is the individual genius, upon whom culture most depends. Nietzsche's view on this matter is unrepentantly elitist:  &quot;For every high world one must be born; orto speak more clearly, one must be cultivated for it:  a right to philosophy--taking that word in its great sense--one has by only virtue of one's origins; one's ancestors, one's 'blood' decide here, too.&quot;	2000-09-30
2265235:US	50718004	R1HM1KJQ6QQUHQ	0385494246	654180128	Amsterdam: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Complex Twists and Turns	Amsterdam continues the persistent theme of Ian McEwan's fiction:  the anguish of conflicting moral obligations.  Should a composer, just beginning to sense the completion of the symphony that will define both himself and his career abandon his hard-won concentration to intervene on behalf of a woman who about to be raped?<br />In Amsterdam, the composer is Clive Linley, newly reunited with his old friend, Vernon Halliday, a newspaper editor.  The men meet (once again) outside a London crematorium to say goodbye to Molly Lane, dead in her late forties of a painful wasting disease.  A sexually generous woman, Molly had been the lover of both Clive and Vernon, as well as Julian Garmony, the Foreign Secretary, who is also present at the service for Molly.<br />Clive and Vernon, who were both unnerved by Molly's suffering prior to her death make a pact:  If one of them develops symptoms that could suddenly leave him helpless, the other will secure the means for a peaceful euthanasia.  As far as Clive and Vernon can tell, in Amsterdam, this presents no problem.<br />Predictably, the agreement between the two men quickly becomes murderous and the aftermath of Molly Lane's death serves to destroy an enduring friendship.  One of the men is offered photographs Molly had taken of Foreign Secretary Garmony in transvestite clothing.  Feeling he must publish them in order to save Britain from a reactionary politician and secure a higher good, he runs into trouble from the other man, who feels that publication would violate the trust Molly placed in them and would betray all she had stood for in life.  Unfortunately, this man's ethics are also compromised, making him a less-than-reliable moral proponent.<br />Can these two men find a mutual meeting point?  And at what cost?  Although it is somewhat predictable and the characters are not fully developed (this is definitely a plot-driven novel), Amsterdam is still a chilling book and one that is filled with complex twists and turnsthat make it well worth the time spent.	2000-09-30
2266639:US	50718004	R1PDTKRGS69Q1Z	0618001905	966326914	King Leopold's Ghost: A Story of Greed, Terror, and Heroism in Colonial Africa	Books	5	88	93	N	N	The Epitome of Historical Tragedy	King Leopold's Ghost provides a vivid account of an episode in the modern history of Africa that was the epitome of tragedy.  In this book, Adam Hochschild concerns himself with the looting of the Congo and the destruction of its peoples by a cousin of Queen Victoria, King Leopold of the Belgians.<br />The story is told through a succession of biographical sketches of the principal villains and heroes, the former being Leopold's accomplices and the latter his opponents.  Hochschild, though bent on illuminating a great human tragedy, allows himself and the reader several curious and even piquant digressions.  The first suspicion that these digressions are only there to spice up the story is belied when the author manages to make them highly relevant, such as the connection between Leopold's unsuccessful wedding night and his all-consuming desire in the Congo.<br />Hochschild begins this book by reminding us of the figure of Affonso I, the sixteenth-century Christian King of the Kongo, pious son of a ruler converted by the Portuguese.  Affonso wrote a series of eloquent letters to the Portuguese king complaining that the slave traders were depopulating his kingdom and even seizing members of the royal family.  The Portuguese, however, had meanwhile discovered a traffic more profitable than gold and they were not about to give it up.<br />Leopold, the figurehead monarch of a small country, successfully acquired a realm larger than France, Italy and Germany combined.  For many of the new imperial powers, collecting colonies was not particularly profitable, but Leopold, through a strange mix of luck, cunning, ruthlessness and breathtaking hypocrisy, managed to gain a huge fortune.<br />Leopold favored a quick killing in the Congo because it was clear that the boom in wild rubber would eventually be overtaken by the planting of commercial rubber plantations.  He joined forces with others to suppress forces within the Congo and bleed it dry.  Leopold's Force Publique had an officer corps of well-paid desperadoes recruited from all over Europe, characters resembling Kurtz in Conrad's chilling Heart of Darkness.<br />Leopold's vicious experiment combined some of the latest techniques of European industry steamboats, machine guns and railways with a sure understanding of traditional African bondage and brigandage, and of the ways they could be bent to his purpose.  The slave-traders became the best recruiters both for the Force Publique and for the porters who carried the rubber to the river or to the railhead.<br />Sadly, Leopold's enterprise enjoyed the blessing of the United States despite the fact that it flew in the face of its supposed anti-slavery, anti-colonial and republican principles.  The indulgence of Europe's colonial powers was less surprising given the rampant racism and imperialism of the time.<br />There were a few anti-slavery zealots who objected to the &quot;magnificent work of exploration&quot; with which Leopold was credited.  (Interestingly, Leopold maintained tight personal control without ever going near the Congo.)  The journalist George W. Williams wrote an angry pamphlet denouncing Leopold's brutal regime but died shortly afterwards.<br />Hochschild does not end this book on a comfortable note.  Conditions in the Congo barely improved, and the harsh but effective methods pioneered by Leopold were taken up by yet other colonial powers.  The outbreak of war in Europe soon furnished its own lessons in industrial slaughter, making Leopold's war on the people of the Congo seem like little more than a dress rehearsal.<br />Although tragic, King Leopold's Ghost is an exemplary piece of history writing:  urgent, vivid and most compelling.	2000-09-28
2266723:US	50718004	R22MSVFGRBBLJB	0821224581	925986418	A Season in Hell	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Anguished and Brilliant	In the collection of prose poems and verse fragments that make up the short book A Season in Hell, begun in April 1873 in an outbuilding at Rimbaud's family farm at the village of Roche and completed by the end of August, he looks back in despair over his life as a poet.  In one of the fragments, titled &quot;Ravings number two&quot; he talks about &quot;the history of one of my follies.  I invented the colors of the vowels!&quot;  he claims, and goes on:  &quot;I flattered myself that I had created a poetic language accessible...to all the senses...I expressed the inexpressible.  I defined vertigos...I ended up regarding my mental disorder as sacred.&quot;   <br />Rimbaud draws a picture of his affair with Verlaine in cynical terms, painting Verlaine as a weak and foolish virgin and himself as an &quot;infernal bridegroom,&quot; a monster of cruelty.  It wasn't far from the truth.<br />The last chapter of A Season in Hell is titled &quot;Farewell.&quot;  It has an air of exhaustion and relief about it.  &quot;I have tried to invent new flowers, new stars, new flesh, new tongues.  I believed I had acquired supernatural powers.  Well!  I must bury my imagination and my memories.  A fine fame as an artist and story-teller swept away!  I!  I who called myself magus or angel, exempt from all morality, I am given back to the earth, with a task to pursue, and wrinkled reality to embrace.  A peasant!&quot;   A Season In Hell was finished in August 1873.  Rimbaud somehow persuaded his thrifty mother to pay to have the book printed in Belgium.  He sent his six author's copies to his friends and to men of letters in Paris.  Many people see this manuscript as his farewell to literature.  It certainly reads like that, although Enid Starkie believes that it was Rimbaud's farewell to a certain kind of literature--visionary, mystical, growing out of the selfish and hallucinatory lifestyle that had crashed to a halt only a few months before with his shooting and the jailing of Verlaine--and a commitment to something more humble and realistic.  &quot;Well, now I shall ask forgiveness for having fed on lies,&quot; Rimbaud wrote.  He hoped that the French literary world would offer him the forgiveness that he was now prepared to seek, and give his book favorable reviews.  He the proceeded to Paris to see how his book had fared.<br />Favorable reviews?  He must have been mad.  To those literary men, the dilettantes Rimbaud had mocked and despised a year or two earlier, Rimbaud was the insolent catamite who had destroyed their old friend Verlaine:  sponged off him, wrecked his marriage, corrupted his soul and ruined his life, and then, when he had used him up, had turned him in to the police to face hard labour in a Belgian jail.<br />We have an eyewitness account of Rimbaud on the day when the last door in Paris had been slammed in his face, at the moment when he realized that the literary career he'd embraced so passionately was over.  It was the evening of the first of November, 1873, a holiday, and the cafés and restaurants were crowded.  The poet Poussin had joined some writer friends at the Café Tabourey.  He noticed a young man alone in a corner, staring into space.  It was Rimbaud.  Poussin went over and offered to buy him a drink.  &quot;Rimbaud was pale and even more silent than usual,&quot; he later recalled.  &quot;His face, indeed his whole bearing, expressed a powerful and fearsome bitterness.&quot;  For the rest of his life Poussin &quot;retained from that meeting a memory of dread.&quot; <br />When the café closed, Rimbaud--who hadn't spoken to anyone all evening--set out to walk home through the late autumn countryside.  It took him about a week.  When he got to Charleville he built a bonfire and burned all his manuscripts.  He didn't bother to collect the remaining five hundred copies of his book from the printer--they moldered there until they were discovered by a Belgian lawyer in 1901.  That should have been the end of it.But Rimbaud couldn't quite let go.  The following year in London he carefully copied out his prose poems, gathered together under the title, Illuminations.  The year after that he tried to get them published.  For the anguished but brilliant Rimbaud, giving up poetry must have been akin to weaning himself from a potent drug.	2000-09-28
2266949:US	50718004	R2T3P0IHK4NUQI	0060928417	387056977	Slowness: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Light Meditation On the Speed of Modern Life	Slowness is Kundera's fourth novel in succession with an abstraction in its title and, like its predecessors, it is organized around certain philosophical themes, explored alternately through the antics of its characters.<br />One theme centers around the title:  the contrast between the modern world's craving for speed, which Kundera equates with a rush toward forgetting, and the slowness of earlier times, when the tempo of life encouraged people to experience things in their full complexity.  A second theme involves those whom Kundera calls &quot;dancers,&quot; people who strut across that global public stage, celebrating themselves and their morality in a series of flamboyant gestures on one-upsmanship.  The character of Berck, a French politician is just such a dancer.<br />We first hear about dancers from Pontevin, a café intellectual.  A young entomologist, Vincent, is a devotée of Pontevin's, although his admiration is tinged with resentment since Pontevin is invariably listened to with delight while Vincent must struggle to even make himself heard.  It is with typical Kunderian irony that these dancers are themselves the most desperate of performers.<br />The novel's main events take place at an entomologist's conference at a French chateau where Vincent has the good fortune of picking up a lovely young woman named Julie.  For both Pontevin and  Vincent, however, the ultimate dancer is Berck, himself.  When Vincent attempts to steal some of Berck glory, he does it so quickly that the lovely Julie is lost to him forever.<br />By way of contrast, Kundera retells the story of Vivant Demon's 18th century novel Point de lendemain, which describes one long, slow night of seduction and lovemaking between an young chevalier and an older woman, during which very little is lost.  The seductress causes the tensions to build and relax so symphonically over the course of the night that &quot;giving the small span of time accorded them the semblance of a marvelous smallarchitecture...for what is formless cannot be grasped, or committed to memory.  Conceiving their encounter as a form was especially precious for them, since their night was to have no tomorrow and could be repeated only through recollection.&quot;<br />The chevalier will embrace his past through memory; Breck wishes to erase his; Vincent will replace his with a story.<br />Because the characters exist chiefly to underscore the author's points, they are rather thinly drawn.  Only the minor figure of the Czech entomologist, Cechoripsky has the ironic richness that we have come to expect from Kundera:  a figure neither admirable nor scornful, perhaps both admirable and scornful.  Cechoripsky has a certain concreteness the others lack, if for no other reason than than he knows who Jan Hus was and that Mickiewicz was Polish, not Czech, as Berck proclaims grandiosely.  The scene in which Cechoripsky reads his paper to the conference is the best thing in the entire novel.<br />Curiously, Kundera seems to have saved most of this book's irony for himself.  Midway through the book, his wife, Véra says to him, &quot;You've often told me you wanted to write a novel someday with not a single serious word in it...I'm frightened the time may have come.&quot;<br />Véra Kundera need have no fears here.  This novel (the first of Kundera's to be written in French) seems to accomplish what he has been trying to accomplish with many of his earlier works:  the achievement a true feeling of lightness.  Slowness is a light and entertaining book whose only message might be a simple, &quot;slow down.&quot;	2000-09-28
2266983:US	50718004	RO43UCKSJZX9B	015600402X	740896753	In the Dutch Mountains (Harvest Book)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	You Are Not Unhappy Enough	In the Dutch Mountains began as a story with the title The Snow Queen.  It was intended to be filmed but the film was never made.  Based on the Hans Christian Andersen story, it pays homage to Andersen openly.<br />The Snow Queen is one of Andersen's most remarkable tales; a plea for the precious uniqueness of childhood, an appeal against the premature induction of the child into rationality.  Little Kai is stolen by the Snow Queen and kept captive in her castle in the cold and snowy North.  His faithful playmate, Gerda goes in search of him and after many adventures and tribulations she arrives, borne on the back of a reindeer, at the Snow Queen's great hall of ice.<br />Here, she finds Kai, blue with cold, playing an endless solitary game, trying to fit shards of ice together like puzzle pieces.  Gerda's warm tears melt the ice around Kai's heart and he is freed from the Snow Queen's spell.<br />In Nooteboom's version, Kai and Gerda become Kai and Lucia, a beautiful, happy couple who share a life and make a living as illusionists for the theater.  In their act, Kai blindfolds Lucia and holds up an object before her, which she then &quot;sees.&quot;  This couple is of one mind and their serene perfection is continually compared to the reunited halves of a self that, as in the fable of Plato's Symposium, has been split in two.<br />This happiness and oneness arouses the jealousy of a mysterious femme fatale, who has Kai kidnapped and whisked off to her own castle.  There she keeps him in thrall, obliterating his memories of Lucia while subjecting him to her lust.  For this coldly beautiful mistress, Kai feels a mixture of both fear and desire.<br />Near the end of this story the novelist-narrator, who by this point is indistinguishable from Nooteboom, himself, gets entangled in a debate about truth and fiction tinged with shades of Plato, Milan Kundera and Hans Christian Andersen.  &quot;Why,&quot; asks the narrator, &quot;do I have this irrepressible desire to fictionalize, to tell lies?&quot;  &quot;From unhappiness,&quot; answers Andersen.  &quot;But you are not unhappy enough.  That's why you can't bring it off.&quot;<br />This is the most penetrating self-insight in this novel, which, like the rest of Nooteboom's fiction, is as much about its own processes and raisons d'être as it is about the fictitious activities of its characters.  Despite contortions of self-reflexiveness that in another writer (Samuel Beckett, for instance) might give rise to agonies of the spirit, Nooteboom and his narrator-atavars seem far too urbane, too cosmopolitan and too much at home in the world to genuinely suffer.  This is Nootebooms particular affliction as a writer:  perhaps he is just too intelligent, too sophisticated, too cool, to be able to commit himself to the grand illusion of fiction.<br />At one of its most reflexive levels, Nooteboom's fiction has, of necessity, been about a search for a level of emotion that can be carried over undiminished into literary creativity.  In the Dutch Mountains, Andersen's diagnosis turns out to be correct:  for all the wit, for all the insight into self and its fictions, for all the elegance of style, there is finally just not enough raw emotion to drive the story forward.	2000-09-28
2267302:US	50718004	R3HK3DL22F13LR	0451450523	22804953	The Last Unicorn	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Post-Modern Fantasy of the Highest Order	Hidden away in a lilac wood, the last unicorn cares little for the outside world.  After all, she is magical and she is immortal.  However, when she hears that she might be the only unicorn left in the world, she sets out on a journey to see if there are any of her kind left.  After being captured by a freak show she meets and joins forces with a bumbling magician, Schmendrick, and later, a middle aged maiden, Molly Grue.  Together these three embark on a quest that will take them into the dangerous realm of King Haggard.  It will be there that the last unicorn will have to face her nemesis, the Red Bull, in order to free the rest of her kind. <br />To a large extent, Peter Beagle's book is considered an interesting work of fantasy because it was one of the first post-modern science fiction novels.  The most salient feature of post-modern science fiction is a rebellion against the classical fantasy/science fiction novel that creates a world that is completely separate from our own.  In this traditional science fiction/fantasy world the characters say and do things that are completely in line with the small universe the author has created in his novel.  The author strives to draw the reader completely into the story.  Beagle rebels against this by creating a novel that constantly pulls the reader out of the novel, back in to the real world, only to slide back into the plot.  The Last Unicorn is the novel written in this post-modern style, of which many examples can be found. <br />Beagle does not immediately strike you with his departure from traditional fantasy.  The unicorn lives in a lilac wood all by herself, in what is seemingly a medieval world.  There are kings and wizards and peasants.  But just when the reader is being drawn into this &quot;other&quot; world, Beagle introduces a character to disrupt it in the form of a talking butterfly.  The thing that pulls the reader out of Beagle's world, back into his own, is not the butterfly's ability to talk (that, after all, is not too bizarre in a fantasy novel), but what he has to say.  Among the many things that do not belong in a traditional fantasy novel, but work well in a post-modern one, are the butterflies references to Shakespeare &quot;you're a fishmonger,&quot; children's singalongs &quot;you are my sunshine,&quot; and songs from America's pop culture &quot;Won't you come home, Bill Bailey, won't you come home.&quot;<br />Now, a veteran of fantasy could probably come up with a list of science fiction cliches that could explain this odd knowledge.  Perhaps the butterfly learned these phrases by falling into a wormhole and spending time in our world.  Maybe the butterfly is in fact a traveler from our world, secretly disguised.  Or, perhaps this is really some bizarre post-apocalyptic world where after many millions of years and genetic mutation, the new inhabitants of our planet are uncovering our twentieth-century pop culture.  But this, like other details in Beagle's novel that clearly do not fit in with the rest of the story, and are not easily explained away. <br />Evidence of Beagle's unorthodox style can be seen later when Schmendrick and Molly are taken captive by Captain Cully.  Schmendrick tries to flatter the outlaw by pretending that he has heard of many of the outlaw's exploits.  As Cully begins to fall for this, he becomes much more friendly with Schmendrick, offering the wizard a place by his fire, an invitation to talk of what people supposedly say about Cully in other countries, and a unique twist, a taco.  An odd foodstuff for outlaws seemingly modeled after Robin Hood!  Later, Schmendrick spends a good part of the night making up stories about the glories of Captain Cully.  The reader learns later on that most of tales came from his &quot;good grounding in Anglo-Saxon folklore.&quot; <br />Beagle uses many other small descriptions to rip the reader out of his fantasy world.  At one point a prince is described &quot;reading a magazine.&quot;   At another point, Prince Lir is described as having armor that is partially made of bottlecaps. <br />A more subtle example of post-modern fantasy is the birth of Prince Lir.  The Prince was found on butcher's block, warm despite the fact that it was snowing, surrounded by stray cats.  As Drinn, the villager that found him said &quot;it purred prophecy.&quot;   But it is at this point that Beagle breaks the spell.  If this were a traditional fantasy, Drill would have become the foster parent for the boy and raised him.  But this is not traditional fantasy.  Drill instead scares away the cats and leaves the baby to what he expects will be death; he fears that the child that seems to have an aura of destiny around him might grow to be the one that brings down the prophecy of doom that had been cursed upon his town by a witch. <br />These are just a few of the many examples that make The Last Unicorn a very different, but very beautiful, kind of fantasy.  The post-modern style of fantasy, or the fantastic, has had a hard time being accepted by many hard core fantasy fans.  Many critics do not like novels that try to constantly toss the reader back and forth between the world of fantasy in the book, and the real world we inhabit day-to-day.  These people find it very hard to take the story seriously.  Others, however, are able to enjoy the beauty of a book such as this.  They see The Last Unicorn and books like it as a fantasy novel that does not take itself too seriously, and can use references from real life as a form of humor and another form of expression in the novel.  Imagination isn't a bad thing to have, after all, especially in a fantasy world.<br />The Last Unicorn is a beautiful book, one that is filled with holes and spaces that draw you into its beauty and let you become a part of its creation.	2000-09-28
2268110:US	50718004	RF5YX20A3B6M6	0805031812	543559563	Robert Frost: A Life	Books	5	29	32	N	N	A Sensitive Roadmap	Although many of Robert Frost's poems revolve around traditionally American themes, even a European, like I am, can easily recognize his genius.<br />This biography offers a major reassessment of the life and work of America's premier poet--the only truly &quot;National Poet&quot; the U.S. has, so far, produced.<br />Author Jay Parini began working on this biography in 1975, through interviews with friends and associates of Frost's and working in the poet's archives at Dartmouth, Amherst and elsewhere.<br />In prose that is both elegant and simple, Parini traces the stages of Frost's colorful life:  his boyhood in San Francisco (no, he was not a native New Englander!), his young manhood in New England, his college days at Dartmouth and later at Harvard, his years of farming in New Hampshire, his three-year stay in England where he became friends with people such as Ezra Pound, Edward Thomas and other important figures of modern poetry.<br />Following Frost's meteoric rise upon his return to America from England in 1915, Parini traces the path Frost took from poet to cultural icon, a friend and intimate of presidents, a sage whose pronouncements attracted the attention of the world press.<br />Yet, the beauty of this book lies in the fact that Parini never loses sight of Frost at his deepest and most human, the man behind the gorgeous and sensitive poetry that enraptured a nation.  Always managing to take us back to the poetry and Frost's roots, Parini, in this beautiful book, offers a sensitive roadmap of both Frost, the man and his incredible talent.	2000-09-27
2268354:US	50718004	R2L9F7E4P7YKGN	0385494246	333930480	Amsterdam: A Novel	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Complex Twists and Turns	Amsterdam continues the persistent theme of Ian McEwan's fiction:  the anguish of conflicting moral obligations.  Should a composer, just beginning to sense the completion of the symphony that will define both himself and his career abandon his hard-won concentration to intervene on behalf of a woman who about to be raped?<br />In Amsterdam, the composer is Clive Linley, newly reunited with his old friend, Vernon Halliday, a newspaper editor.  The men meet (once again) outside a London crematorium to say goodbye to Molly Lane, dead in her late forties of a painful wasting disease.  A sexually generous woman, Molly had been the lover of both Clive and Vernon, as well as Julian Garmony, the Foreign Secretary, who is also present at the service for Molly.<br />Clive and Vernon, who were both unnerved by Molly's suffering prior to her death make a pact:  If one of them develops symptoms that could suddenly leave him helpless, the other will secure the means for a peaceful euthanasia.  As far as Clive and Vernon can tell, in Amsterdam, this presents no problem.<br />Predictably, the agreement between the two men quickly becomes murderous and the aftermath of Molly Lane's death serves to destroy an enduring friendship.  One of the men is offered photographs Molly had taken of Foreign Secretary Garmony in transvestite clothing.  Feeling he must publish them in order to save Britain from a reactionary politician and secure a higher good, he runs into trouble from the other man, who feels that publication would violate the trust Molly placed in them and would betray all she had stood for in life.  Unfortunately, this man's ethics are also compromised, making him a less-than-reliable moral proponent.<br />Can these two men find a mutual meeting point?  And at what cost?  Although it is somewhat predictable and the characters are not fully developed (this is definitely a plot-driven novel), Amsterdam is still a chilling book and one that is filled with complex twists and turnsthat make it well worth the time spent.	2000-09-27
2268685:US	50718004	R12S5UUZS36XUJ	0679723161	636015448	Lolita	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Perversity of the Most Original and Brilliant Kind	Vladimir Nabokov's Lolita was first issued in 1955 by an unorthodox Paris press after being rejected by a string of American publishers, banned by the French government (presumably out of solicitude for immature English-speaking readers, although the ban was later quashed by the French High Court), pronounced unobjectionable (surprisingly) by the U.S. Customs Office, and heralded with ovations from writers, professors and critics on both sides of the Atlantic.<br />Lolita's scandal-tinted history, as well as its subject matter--an affair between a middle-aged sexual pervert and a twelve-year-old girl--certainly conjure up visions of pornography.  But to the credit of the genius of Nabokov, there is not one single obscene term in Lolita and fans of erotica are likely to find this amazing novel more than a little boring.<br />Lolita, however, fairly blazes with a perversity of the most original and brilliant kind.  From his shocking premise, Nabokov has distilled hundred-proof, intellectual farce.  Lolita is slightly reminiscent of Thomas Mann's Confessions of Felix Krull, but Lolita has a much stronger sense of comic genius and is more brilliantly written.  Nabokov, although a Russian émigré, has few rivals for virtuosity in the handling of the English language.<br />In a mock sententious forward, Nabokov explains that the manuscript that follows is the confession of one Humbert Humbert, a man whose fate you learn at the outset of the book.  Humbert introduces himself as a European of &quot;mixed stock&quot; who, at the age of twelve, &quot;in a princedom by the sea,&quot; loved and lost a petite fille fatale named Annabel Leigh and thereafter has dutifully remained in sexual bondage to &quot;the perilous magic&quot; of preteen sirens, whom he calls, &quot;nymphets.&quot;<br />There follows a sketch of his tortured career up to the time when, in his late thirties, he settles in a quiet New England town under the same roof as the most fatal of fatally seductive nymphets, Delores Haze, herself a mixture of &quot;tender dreamy childishness and eerie vulgarity.&quot;  This nymphet, Dolores, is &quot;Lolita,&quot; the daughter of Humbert's landlady, whom her regards with murderous intent.  <br />Circumstances conspire to make Humbert the guardian of Lolita, his darling, and on their first night together she proves to be utterly depraved in a way in which Humbert could never have imagined, but no doubt would have loved to do so.  Their subsequent motel-hopping trek across America is climaxed by Lolita's escape and Humbert's eventual revenge on a rival.<br />What on earth are we to make of a novel as daringly brilliant and original as Lolita?  Nabokov, himself, dismissed the book's satiric aspects and said it was simply a story he had to get off his chest.  That all of this is simply too ingenious is more than evident from the parodic style in which Lolita is written:  a playful combination of pastiches of well-known styles, spoofing pedantry, analysis of passion à la français, Joycean word games, puns and all kind of verbal antics.  Wild, fantastic and wonderfully imaginative, Lolita manages to parody everything it touches.  It surely justifies those who have seen this book as a satire of the romantic novel, of &quot;Old Europe&quot; and &quot;Young America,&quot; of &quot;chronic American adolescence and shabby materialism.&quot;<br />But above all, Lolita remains a brilliant assertion of the power of the comic spirit to wrest sheer delight and absolute truth from the most outlandish of situations.  Lolita is one of the funniest books ever written; the vision of its abominable hero, who never deludes or excuses himself, brings into grotesque relief the vulgarity and the hypocrisy that pervade the human comedy we call...life.	2000-09-27
2268921:US	50718004	RQGKFCCI09XK0	0805005013	555171378	The Poetry of Robert Frost: The Collected Poems, Complete and Unabridged (Owl Book)	Books	5	51	56	N	N	Simply the Best	While other poets must abide our endless questioning regarding contemporary poetry, Robert Frost stands head and shoulders above the rest--free and serene and magnificent, truly the George Washington of modern American verse.  Frost was honored with the Pulitzer Prize on four occasions:  in 1924 for &quot;New Hampshire;&quot; in 1931, for &quot;Collected Poems;&quot; in 1937 for &quot;A Further Range;&quot; and in 1943 for &quot;A Witness Tree.&quot;<br />Critics love Frost.  The American people love Frost.  The world at large loves Frost.  You will love Frost, too, if you read this book.  Begin with one of his most famous--and his most beautiful, &quot;Mending Wall,&quot;<br />     Something there is that doesn't love a wall,/      That sends the frozen-ground-swell under it,/      And makes gaps even two can pass abreast...<br />Never to be forgotten, of course, is that talk with the taciturn neighbor, owner of the pines beyond Frost's apple orchard, who stubbornly says, in typical New England fashion, &quot;Good fences make good neighbors,&quot; until one day, Frost suddenly sees him,<br />     Bringing a stone grasped firmly by the top/      In each hand, like an old-stone savage armed./      He moves in darkness as it seems to me,/      Not of woods only and the shade of trees./      He will not go behind his father's saying,/      And he lives having thought of it so well/      He says again, &quot;Good fences make good neighbors.&quot;<br />&quot;Stopping by the Woods on a Snowy Evening,&quot; ends with words anyone of any age can relate to,<br />     But I have promises to keep,/      And miles to go before I sleep./      And miles to go before I sleep.<br />&quot;The Death of the Hired Man,&quot; with its poignancies as deep, no doubt, as the death of any salesman could ever be, inspired these beautiful lines,<br />     Home is the place where, when you have to go there,/      They have to take you in./      I should have called it/      Something you somehow haven't to deserve.<br />The poems of Robert Frost possess a beauty so serene that we feel no need, no urge, to denigrate the work of other poets in order to expand Frost's praise.  Despite the amazing diversity of talent that comes to mind when the names of MacLeish, Leonie Adams, Auden, Peter Viereck, Wallace Stephens, Robert Lowell, E.B. White, Karl Shapiro, Langston Hughes, William Carlos Williams, Arna Bontemps, Marianne Moore, e e cummings, Allen Tate and T.S. Eliot are mentioned, Frost does, indeed, tower above them all.<br />Frost has been eloquently compared to every rock and rill, every tree and shrub in his New England hills, and to almost every major figure in the New England past, including George Washingtion.  He has won homage so completely and deservedly that it is as easy to think of him as a member of the Concord Group as it is to imagine Thoreau writing the opening paragraphs in the New Yorker's Talk of the Town.<br />Frost, though, could be cheerfully topical, as when writing &quot;U.S. 1946 King's X,&quot;<br />     Having invented a new Holocaust/      And been the first with it to win a war,/      How they make haste to cry with fingers crossed/      King X's--no fair to use it anymore!<br />Frost saw much of the world after his birth in San Francisco in 1875, and he looks over the prospects of the entire universe in, &quot;It Bids Pretty Fair,&quot;<br />     The play seems out for an almost infinite run./      Don't mind a little thing like the actors fighting./      The only thing I worry about is the sun./      We'll be all right if nothing goes wrong with the lighting.<br />Robert Frost is truly an American original and a world genius.  There will never be another.	2000-09-27
2269307:US	50718004	R3CLS3NQAOWZSE	0140445153	39854055	Ecce Homo: How One Becomes What One Is; Revised Edition (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Portrait Of An Ubermensch	In Ecce Homo, Nietzsche, clocked in the overt convention of the critical autobiography, lashes out at the practice of divorcing art from action.  He takes aim at the reification of the linguistic world, which he believes has grown at the expense of the pre-linguistic world and his quarrel is with those who use words to mediate their experiences in the world in order to deny their own heroic capabilities.<br />&quot;Saying 'Yes' to life,&quot; says Nietzsche, &quot;is its strangest and hardest problem; the will to life rejoicing over its inexhaustibility even in the sacrifice of its highest types--that is what I call Dionysian, that is what I understood as the bridge to the psychology of the tragic poet.&quot;  This Dionysian status, he goes on to say, is not gained through &quot;thumbing through books,&quot; but by suffering through experience and rejoicing in the vitality of living.<br />Nietzsche also writes, &quot;In questions of decadence I am experienced.&quot;  In this he intimates his own experience of life denial through words and his imagery compares intellectual endeavors with physical conditions, e.g. digestion.<br />&quot;The German spirit,&quot; he says, &quot;is an indigestion:  it does not finish with anything.&quot;  Nietzsche uses the human stomach as a metaphor of the reification of the linguistic world.  The stomach digests food by breaking it down into its component parts, readily recognizable to physiology but having little to do with the original product.<br />An orange, after all is not just vitamin C.  Furthermore, says Nietzsche, what the body cannot use is rejected as waste product.  When disorders of the stomach occur, the body cannot distinguish between waste and nutrient and consequently it churns endlessly, causing distress to the entire organism.  Nietzsche, himself, is not embarrassed by his experience of decadence but sees it as something which has given him a special sensitivity to the &quot;signs of ascent and decline.&quot;<br />For Nietzsche, the world is a chaotic place, given order only by the imposition of human will.  Humans, in this way, says Nietzsche, create something out of nothing.  However, in the face of the &quot;abyss,&quot; man creates and acts as if his creation is real, in such a manner as to allow himself the vital and joyous activity of affirming the very importance of his creation.  The heroic figure then moves on towards greater acts of creation using each personal, willful creation as a stepping stone, not towards an ultimate goal, but towards other projects.  Nietzsche tells us to beware of the organizing &quot;idea&quot; which &quot;...leads back from side roads and wrong roads...as a means towards a whole.&quot;  The endless road of &quot;becoming&quot; is traveled by a will which is excited and invigorated by its trip, enjoying its stops along the way, but which ultimately has no other purpose but to go further and further as the journey becomes more and more exhausting.<br />For Nietzsche, the battle is always emphasized over the goal.  It is a simple matter, he tells us, to conquer that which is already beneath you.  To move beyond that which is your equal is the real test of the will.  This is the essential process of &quot;overcoming&quot; which leads one higher and higher, eventually reaching the experience of the &quot;tragic.&quot;  As the linguistic world becomes more and more complex, its position in relation to nothingness becomes more and more precarious.  This situation threatens a fall of apocalyptic proportions, for it is necessary for the tragic aesthetic that there be a certain height to the descent.  For Nietzsche, rejoicing in the sacrifice of the highest types is a key element in experiencing tragedy.<br />&quot;...and whoever wants to be a creator in good and evil, must first be an annihilator and break values.&quot;  Creation, according to Nietzsche presupposes the willingness to destroy.  The order we impose upon the world is a constraint uponus when the time to overcome occurs, and at such times, the spirit of the Ubermensch is needed in order to decimate the linguistic constructs that we have come to depend upon.  For original, creative activity to be allowed, there must be nothing available to plagiarize or react against.  Nietzsche refers to this resignation in the face of the void as &quot;Russian fatalism&quot; which occurs when the individual no longer attempts to &quot;...accept anything at all--to cease reacting altogether.&quot;<br />In the end, for Nietzsche, nobility of spirit is akin to a meniscus, relying on the tension created by contrasting nothingness with creation.  It can tolerate very little unequal pressure; too much and it ruptures.  And aesthetically pleasing life is to be sought in that in between area inaccessible to words or to action alone.  Ironically, Nietzsche's severe philosophy seems to advocate a kind of moderation.  For the truly heroic figure is valued for his ability to live a life in which he moderates the need for order with the desire for creative action.  Standing between empowerment and dissolution, as he must, the hero, says Nietzsche, is as deserving of &quot;songs of praise&quot; as is any god.	2000-09-26
2269463:US	50718004	R32DH8I9GG1P07	0060997036	200558803	Laughable Loves	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Small and Complex Fairy Tale	In this small and complex work, Kundera criticizes the hypocrisy of formal faiths in favor of a more illogically, emotionally-based spirituality.  This story, told in the style of a fairy tale, is framed with mystical language and ideas.  At the beginning, Edward, having never even considered believing in God, comes to perceive a way in which God can help him win Alice.  Even more than in The Joke, the characters of Edward and God represent rigid ideas rather than natural people.  Alice uses her religiosity as a means of superiority over others, superficially to defy the hated communists.  Her comical God of no Fornication is devoid of any abstraction, and hence, ridiculous.<br />At the other end of the spectrum, the Communists are equally portrayed as spiritually poor.  The narrator speaks bluntly of their motives, &quot;thanks to religion they can stand again in all their glory on the correct side and retain that so habitual and precious sense of their own superiority.&quot;  The validity of both of these institutions (Christianity and the Soviet personality) begin to deteriorate early on.  In Edward and Alice's theological arguments, they both make uninformed contentions, indicating their superficial understanding of religious doctrine.<br />Edward's own experiences among such seemingly strong beliefs come to have no deeper meaning for him, either.  They unintentionally (and humorously) become twisted avenues by which he, too, can attain power.  When Alice lifts her sexual prohibitions so easily, without a turnabout in her soul, she abandons her former mechanism of vengeance (organized religion) for what she perceives to be a stronger one (solidarity with Edward).  By employing such obviously exaggerated and manipulated behavior, I do not think Kundera is criticizing the basic notions behind religion and socialism, but instead the perversion and abuse of these purer ideas.<br />In the end, the experience of such hollowness leaves Edward disillusioned.  He suddenly longs to have God in his life and to believe in God's existence, as God &quot;is essence itself...the essential opposite of this unessential world.&quot;<br />The reader, however, is left with only an ambiguous, mystical conclusion since Kundera deliberately leaves the story open to individual interpretation.  I, personally, see the last chapter as Kundera once again having the last laugh, perhaps telling us not to take life, or love, too seriously.	2000-09-26
2269847:US	50718004	R2OLSC0S5M86HP	0226244962	776668725	The Life of God (as Told by Himself)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Lovable, Sweet and Utterly Charming	The Life of God (As Told by Himself) is a charming knit of secular and ecclesiastic views of the world told from the viewpoint of God, Himself.  God rises out of chaos and brings into being, with a scientifically approved chronology, the universe as we know it.  &quot;The truth is that the world began when it dawned on me that I was all alone and I tried to do something about it.  Everything that came later was a consequence of that moment...&quot;  God creates the sun, the other stars and the planets, of which he much prefers the Earth.  <br />So, God decides to settle on Earth and proceeds to create life, marine and amphibious.  He soon grows tired of reptiles, however, and wanting &quot;life to meditate upon itself so as to better comprehend itself,&quot; he shifts from eggs to live birth and mammals are born.  Eventually, he finds in the monkey just the right blend of melancholy and humor to impel him to create the human soul.<br />&quot;I would have a notion of a tree and bang, there it was roots and branches and leaves and trunk and bark, rooting in the earth, with arms flung wide in the open air.&quot;  God can mold his creations, but he cannot alter or destroy them.  As he, himself puts it, &quot;I could not play around with the created world, and make and unmake as I pleased.&quot;<br />Ferrucci's God is likable, sweet and utterly human but he is neither omnipotent nor omniscient.  More importantly, he his constantly learning from his own creations.  God's world is inhabited by characters whose relationships are independent of him. who know more than he does about certain topics and who have power over one another with which he cannot interfere.<br />This is an extremely mobile God, capable of skimming through the cosmos and merging with any one of his creations, yet he cannot save Christ from Crucifixion, he cannot paint as well as Caravaggio nor can he understand Einstein, although he listens appreciatively.  Most of the Great Minds with whom God interacts recognize him; some understand him, some ignore him and some blatantly reject him.  Mozart is, of course, irreverent, Freud is quite unpleasant and Dante sees him as he is...&quot;father and son of my very own self, the fire of intelligence that circulates through the cosmos and pours into humankind in order to attain the form of thought and words.&quot;<br />Translated freely from the original Italian, we are told that &quot;it often departs freely from the Italian original and at points is better characterized as an adaptation.&quot;  Translation or adaptation, the prose is always delightful, the writing is consistently witty and intelligent, sometimes even hilarious.<br />The Life of God does a wonderful job of reconciling the chaotic progress of human events with a higher but endearingly non-absolute power.  It begins toward this end buoyed by a deft usage of anachronistic simile; the dinosaurs are &quot;extremely conservative and not particularly bright...like old aristocrats in remote provincial towns, handing down to new generations both their idleness and a disquieting physical resemblance.&quot;  Mixed among adorable descriptions such as the above are weighty and unscientific pronouncements attributed to this God, who, though no Einstein, himself, is setting in motion the meaning beneath the mystery of the natural world.<br />Ferrucci's decision to characterize the God who has set us all in motion as both sentient and chaotic, amiable and divine, is clever, compelling and more than eminently readable.  Did Moses really spend all that time with God?  Why are Bach's symphonies so utterly divine?  Did Einstein ever have anyone to talk to about his work?  This is both a very small and a very large idea.  Ferrucci's whimsy protects this book from any serious criticism, because, after all, the book only smilingly claims to be about everything that ever happened.  The Life of God (As Told by Himself) is a different but utterly charming, sweet and lovable autobiography.	2000-09-26
2269957:US	50718004	R13286P3ZSZ0KY	1573225436	266050518	The Sorrow of War: A Novel of North Vietnam	Books	5	33	34	N	N	A Book That Will Break Your Heart	The media has made sure that all of us are aware of the Vietnam conflict.  Readers and movie goers the world over are now familiar with America's suffering in Vietnam and the problems American veterans have endured as they attempted to adjust to civilian life.<br />Although all life is irreplacible, the fact remains that the United States lost fewer than a million men in the Vietnam conflict and their social institutions and infrastructure remained relatively intact.  The Vietnamese, however, lost two million men and their culture, society, landscape and tradition were literally obliterated.  Despite this destruction, their side of this horrendous story has seldom been told.  Worse yet, when it is told, they are often portrayed in the most unattractive of all light.  Until only a few years ago, the Vietnamese were portrayed by the media as a faceless people with no identity; entities not worth caring about.  The turning point came with the publication, in Dutch, of Duong Thu Huong's Blind Paradise in 1994.  This landmark book was followed by Bao Ninh's The Sorrow of War.<br />War novels deal, superficially, with war.  But underneath all the blood and horror and carnage lie far deeper social and human issues.  The best novels of war, such as Erich Maria Remarque's All Quiet on the Western Front and Ernest Hemingway's For Whom the Bell Tolls, as well as Bao Ninh's The Sorrow of War, also deal with the makeup and morality of a culture or a society gone wrong.  The protagonist of these books, whether real or fictional, often endures a harrowing personal struggle through both a public and private hell and usually undergoes some sort of redemption, even if that redemption results in death.<br />Born in 1952, Bao Ninh served in the Glorious 27th Youth Brigade during the Vietnam conflict.  Of the five hundred youths who went to war with this brigade in 1969, Bao Ninh was one of its ten survivors, so it is not unusual that war should be the subject of his first book, considering the impact it has had on his life.<br />Semi-autobiographical in nature, the protagonist of The Sorrow of War, Kien, is the lone survivor of his brigade and a ten year veteran of the war.  As the book opens he is serving as part of an MIA body collection team.  It is through his memories that we slowly learn how the war has devastated his youth and the youth of his countrymen.  In an attempt to purge himself of the demons of war and the hopelessness of the present, Kien writes, merging his memories of the past with his images of the present.  For Kien, writing is the only way he can perform his last duty as a soldier, a duty he sees as being &quot;to expose the realities of war and to tear aside conventional images.&quot;<br />In prose that ranges from the horrific to the poetic, Ninh relates memories and images of death and destruction, anguish and sorrow.  Yet, underneath all of this loss lies a bittersweet love story, the true story of Ninh and his childhood sweetheart who were parted forever by the war.  It is Ninh's personal recollections that make this book the saddest and most sorrwful story ever written.  Nowhere has there ever been a more tragic tale of unnecessary loss and suffering and destruction.  And there is no redemption.  For all the suffering and loss endured at every level of Vietnamese life--the loss of youth, family, life, tradition and love--is all in vain.  The future that Kien fought for as a youth never materializes, and, in the meantime, he loses all that was ever meaningful to him, all that he has ever held dear and close to his heart.  This is the real sorrow and loss and tragedy of war and it is a tragedy we all must share, no matter who or where we are.<br />The Sorrow of War is a book that will change your life but it is also a book that will break your heart.	2000-09-26
2270072:US	50718004	R3BWBPWKXFJ1US	0394701267	7630156	The Divine Comedy: The Carlyle Okey Wicksteed Unabridged Translation	Books	5	50	54	N	N	More Than Gorgeous	Seven centuries after Dante Alighieri wrote La Divina Commedia, it remains one of the most spectacularly amazing literary masterpieces in any language of any time.<br />The story of a spiritual journey, The Divine Comedy is essentially an allegory which began on Good Friday 1300 (when Dante was thirty-five) and lasted for just seven days.  It is also a bitter political polemic, directed against all in authority in Italy at the time, but particularly those in Dante's native Florence, and also serves as a denouncement of the wealth and corruption of the papacy.<br />The Divine Comedy embraces the celestial and the terrestrial, the mythological and the historical, the practical and the ethical.  It is a discourse on the role of reason in faith and the individual in society.<br />The Divine Comedy is a poem in which Dante views himself as a pilgrim, representative of all mankind, who is led on a journey through the various circles of Hell, Purgatory and Heaven.  It is written in three volumes (Inferno, Purgatorio and Paradiso), each composed of thirty-three cantos (there is one introductory canto serving as an overview).<br />Originally written in Italian, The Divine Comedy uses a rhyming scheme known as terza rima, which was invented by Dante, himself.  Many translations attempt to adhere to this rhyming scheme, however this only confines and constrains the translator in his ability to capture the meaning and nuance of the original text.  Anyone not able to read The Divine Comedy in its original Italian would be far better off in choosing a blank verse translation.<br />Dante's first guide is the poet, Virgil, who leads him through Hell and Purgatory.  As Dante and Virgil descend through the ever-deepening circles, they speak with the damned, who are being punished according to their sins on earth.<br />Some of these denizens of Hell are mythological, some are historical and some are Florentines who were Dante's contemporaries.<br />Within Inferno, the condemned sinners are referred to as &quot;shades.&quot;  Virgil, himself, is first introduced as a shade.  Although this can be confusing to some readers, the confusion can be easily cleared up once we realize Dante is employing the image of shades because, in his eyes, dead souls have grown faint through the absence of God's light.<br />Once Dante begins to work his way upwards, towards Paradise, Virgil, who is, himself, a resident in limbo, must take his leave and Dante finds his guide to be Beatrice (Bice Portinari, a woman Dante met and fell in love with in 1274 and who died in 1290).  It is Beatrice who leads Dante on to Paradiso and his final vision of God.<br />The name, The Divine Comedy, is derived from two words, comus and oda, which, in their literal translation mean, &quot;rustic song.&quot;  Dante, in a letter to a Ghibellinline Captain in Verona, said he was attempting to separate his work from a pure tragedy (that which begins in tranquility and ends in sadness, e.g., Romeo and Juliet), from a comedy, which can begin in sadness but, by its very nature, ends in love, joy or perfection.  The term, &quot;divine&quot; was suggested to Dante by Giovanni Boccaccio as a way of representing the content of the poem and the beauty that it holds.<br />The Divine Comedy is, without a doubt, one of the greatest masterpieces of world literature.  In a literal sense, it is Dante's own depiction of the state of souls after death, but allegorically, it is so much more.  On this deeper level, the poem investigates mankind's eternal search for salvation in which he must first descend to the depths of hell before rising to the heights of Paradise.<br />The Divine Comedy is a masterpiece of subject matter but it is also a masterpiece of Dante's Tuscan dialect (which eventually became the literary language of the whole of Italy).  Those lucky enough to read it in the original Italian will find the language gorgeous beyond compare; a limpid and ethereal Italian that remains so fresh and invigorating it could have been written yesterday.<br />The Divine Comedy is not the easiest work in literature, either to read or to understand.  But, for those who are prepared to make the effort, the rewards are far greater than could ever have been anticipated.nvigorating it could have been written yesterday.<br />The Divine Comedy is not the easiest work in literature, either to read or to understand.  But, for those who are prepared to make the effort, the rewards are far greater than could ever have been anticipated.	2000-09-26
2270370:US	50718004	RUZ6IY41G66F8	006099505X	429922720	The Joke (Definitive Version)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A Mystical Thread	In the very first part of The Joke, Kundera begins setting up character types using contrasting religious affiliations.  Kostka is the most obvious and continuous religious reference.  He not only adheres to Christianity, but to Communism as well.  He achieves this contradictory blend of beliefs through a process of rationalization in which everything relates back to God's greater design.  Kostka rationalizes most things in his life and in the world around him as God's will.  Unable to come to grips with his own image as a seducer, he conveniently clings to the religious notions of martyrship and absolution for sin.  While unknowingly adhering to rational thought, Kostka criticizes rationalism as the corrosive force of both Christianity and Communism throughout history.  In his final segment, Kostka's false piety is revealed as he suddenly doubts his faith in God and calls out in futility.<br />In this crowning moment of Kostka's development, Kundera is clearly having the last laugh.  He seems to be telling us that it is not so easy and obvious to find God.  Kostka is definitely not the image of harmony his name would imply, and, like everyone else, Kostka must struggle to find faith, salvation and comfort.  Ludvik's later description of Kostka only confirms this interpretation and Kostka's character, with his dual beliefs, also serves as a platform for Kundera to criticize socialism and its hypocrisy.<br />The character of Jaroslav allows Kundera to express ideas much closer to his heart.  Jaroslav's notions about fantasy are centered around an ancient belief common to many faiths that the most holy and true things are the oldest things.  Jaroslav believes in archaic bad omens and also in Kismet.  His love of illogical folk music, whose rhythm cannot be written down in our notation system is mirrored in Kundera's comments about rhythm in The Art of the Novel.  Jaroslav, with his strong feelings for the past, struggles to live in the modern world of his wife and son, because, to him, it is a world devoid of meaning.  The Ride of the Kings is his bridge between the two worlds, and when Vladimir blatantly rejects being the King, Jaroslav's fantasy world begins to fall apart.<br />At the same time, Ludvik suddenly beings to change places with Jaroslav.  In true mystical Kundera form, Ludvik arrives at his changed state through some inexplicable revelation.  From his irrational babbling, Ludvik ultimately arrives at a new faith that renounces the false faith of believing in eternal memory and redressibility and perceives the meaning of life as existing only in the moment.  Living in the present, Ludvik is finally able to let go of his past and desire for revenge and find peace with himself.<br />The imagery surrounding the character of Lucie is highly mystical.  While not a strong character, Lucie is a stark contrast to Helena, Kundera's ultimate joke and most biting object of satire.  Along with all of the magical reference to her, Lucie's life is much like that of the traditional mystic.  She is isolated, anti-social and does not communicate through normal means, yet she is somehow a representation of ultimate truth.  In reality, Lucie's image carries more mystical qualities than her actual situation.  This idea of image is one of Kundera's key concepts.<br />Rich in absurdity and reproach for hollow, hypocritical guises of faith, The Joke shows us that Kundera values a more intimate, abstract and individual form of faith as an avenue of meaning over the more formal, institutionalized religions created by man, which are often highly lacking in meaning.	2000-09-26
2270608:US	50718004	R1B1TEODY3L1L9	0060932384	885582594	Immortality (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Important Things Hidden From the Eyes	In Immortality, Kundera creates characters with highly contrasting religious beliefs in immortality.  Agnes and Laura are the most noticeable examples.  The first religious reference is in regard to Agnes's relationship with her father.  She is very close to him and so adopts his belief in a &quot;Divine computer,&quot; interpreting it as a kind of deism in which traditional prayer becomes obsolete.  Kundera's creation of &quot;the Creator's Divine computer&quot; is a masterful juxtaposition of the tangible and the intangible, joined together to create a new, ambiguous meaning.<br />Although the mechanization of life by a deity is not a new idea, in Kundera's hands it takes on a more modern and original meaning as he describes life as a program in which specific events happen according to &quot;a play of permutations and combinations.&quot;  Human experiences are differentiated by the uniqueness of the face--the &quot;serial number&quot;--that determines one's fate.  Kundera's notion of fate is intimately connected with another value he associates with modernity:  imagology over ideology.<br />The conception of fate and its implication of faith as dispensable to the self are running themes in Immortality.  Kundera clearly perceives modern times, with its emphasis on the secular, as lacking in the more natural, abstract notions of God which characterized the past.  Agnes's belief that &quot;God's eye has been replaced by a camera,&quot; is key to the concept of imagology as well as Kundera's anti-religious stance on the world.<br />Kundera, however, while longing for systems and mechanisms to explain the mystery of life, ultimately seems to find them unfulfilling.  Agnes's struggle to escape life is symbolic of Kundera and &quot;Everyman's&quot; struggle to survive.  Agnes is the prime example that totally rational views do not lead to inner peace.<br />Laura, who lives by mystical means, is better able to survive than is Agnes.  Upon meeting Paul for the first timeshe hears &quot;an invisible someone saying to her, 'There is a man!  A real man.  The only man.  No other exists.'&quot;  This passage ties into Kundera's conception of fate.  For Laura, this fate is determined by some mysterious, foreboding power.  Kundera later affirms his belief in fate in the resolution of Laura's story.<br />Interestingly, Laura is more connected with her body than with her soul.  She, like her historical counterpart, Bettina, strives to attain immortality.  Kundera clearly identifies &quot;immortality&quot; as independent of the religious ideas of an &quot;immortal soul.&quot;  Instead, it is a &quot;different, quite earthly immortality of those who after their death remain in the memory of posterity.&quot;  This kind of immortality serves as a distraction from death, giving humans the illusion that they can control something not only in their lives, but beyond it.  Bettina's desire for immortality in intimately tied with history as it is &quot;an incarnation of God.&quot;  Kundera assigns her mystical qualities and gestures in her quest to &quot;enter into direct, personal contact,&quot; with this God.  He describes her feelings for Goethe as being &quot;planted in her heart&quot; by &quot;somebody above both Goethe and herself; if not God, then at least one of those angels...a divine hand.&quot;<br />The veneration of the soul is an enduring Kunderian motif.  In the rational systems he creates throughout this novel, he seems to be fighting emotions with reason and logic.  The battle between Laura and Brigitte (an ardent adherent to logic, herself, as evidenced by her distaste for arbitrary German grammar) over music (Laura's emotional Mahler versus Brigitte's loud and soulless rock) symbolizes the age-old struggle between emotion and reason.  To Kundera, music is &quot;a pump for inflating the soul,&quot; capable of achieving &quot;time out of time.&quot;  Kundera openly acknowledges this human struggle through Goethe, when he tells Hemingway, &quot;To be mortal is the most basic human experience, and yet man has never been able to accept it, grasp it, and behave accordingly.&quot;<br />The inadequacy of logical systems to depict human life culminates in the chapter regarding Rubens.  Having abandoned his former linear view of time in The Joke, Kundera now opts for a circular view represented by the &quot;Dial of Life.&quot;  The culminating phase in the systematic story of physical love of Rubens life, like the relationship between humans and immortality, is a &quot;mystical period.&quot;  It is during this mystical period that Rubens is most content and that his relationship with Agnes becomes an enduring one.  This is, perhaps, Kundera's strongest hidden statement:  Agnes, in opposing the arbitrary fate imposed on her, is unable to survive in the earthly world that Laura, her polar opposite, thrives in; yet, through her deeper contact with spirituality, she represents a much more enduring truth, the culmination of Kundera's mystical thread.<br />Through the delicate craft of Immortality, Kundera has shown that &quot;the really important things are those which are hidden from the eyes.&quot;	2000-09-26
2270748:US	50718004	RLV0C6HI2MVG6	0140279725	295339833	The Life of Insects: A Novel	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Shimmering Satire of Post-Perestroika Russia	Victor Pelevin's The Life of Insects, a tale of the absurd, opens with one of many startling metamorphoses.   Samuel Sacker, a hard-driving American businessman, is visiting a crumbling Black Sea resort hotel with two shabby Russian business contacts.  The three would-be entrepreneurs are looking for ways to exploit possibilities for easy money in a new Russia.<br />After this trio coordinates its vague business strategy, they abruptly transform into mosquitoes.  Sam is the luckiest...he becomes an impressive, agile brown creature, while the two Russians take on &quot;that miserable hue of grey familiar from prerevolutionary village huts.&quot;  Together they fly to a nearby town to have dinner, i.e., to suck the blood of the local residents.  Sam, who refuses to listen to the warnings of his partners, becomes perilously drunk after sucking one man's cologne-slapped skin.  So much so that on the return to the resort, he must suffer the consequences.<br />A shimmering satire of post-perestroika Russia, the characters in The Life of Insects metamorphose from human to insect to insect-like human to human-like insect from sentence to sentence, so seamlessly and frequently that the attributes of the different species appear more as transparent overlays than as fixed, distinct qualities.  They are people and they are insects, and as such their actions can be viewed both literally and metaphorically.<br />In these fifteen loosely linked stories, Pelevin successfully walks a very delicate line:  he simultaneously builds believable characters with real human struggles, matches their personality and personal quirks to vivid insect lives and spoofs various aspects of Russian culture and international literature.<br />There is Natasha, a naive, young greenbottle-fly prostitute who paints &quot;the suckers on her hands&quot; with lipstick, the better to seduce her prospects.  When Sam is dining in a restaurant, he finds Natasha on his plate, &quot;sitting on the edge between thepotato and the sauce--at first he's taken her for a bit of dill.&quot;  In a short time, however, she &quot;put her glass on the table and moved her hands and arms as though stretching a chest expander.&quot;<br />And then there is Marina, a daft and dreamy ant who descends on a boardwalk wearing a denim skirt and red stiletto heels, craving a life out of romantic French movies, but instead suffering a bossy army-ant boyfriend, an unwanted pregnancy and a tragedy at a high-society ball that could rival anything in War and Peace. <br />There is the heart-rending coming-of-age story of a young dung beetle, initiated into the sacred rites of scarabs and their arcane Egyptian religion.  There are hip, counterculture bugs who smoke marijuana ceaselessly while spouting paranoid religious and political theories.  There is the cicada with an identity crisis; is he a cicada or is he a cockroach?  Should he stop digging tunnels through the earth and become a computer programmer instead?  Is life about struggle or pleasure?  One insect even recalls the horror of almost becoming the victim of DDT and pleads with her lover to understand &quot;what it's like when they sprinkle vitriol on a cesspool and it's too late to fly away.&quot;<br />Änd then there are Mitya (male), and Dima (female), two moths with wings &quot;like a cloak of silver brocade,&quot; who ruminate in cryptic nonsense about their deadly attraction to bright lights.  With Dima, Mitya flies around Russia seeking his true identity.  Mitya and Dima, however, are both diminuatives of Dimitri, and, like Russia, they are divided between east and west, old and new, communist and capitalist, and forever looking for ways to end their dichotomy.<br />To emphasize the absurd, Pelevin lets ambiguity reign throughout.  The plot is loosely woven around Sam and his partners, although only a few chapters are really devoted to this trio.<br />The settings, too, are often unclear.  Locations are described sparingly and insectsoften inhabit the human world and vice versa.  By revealing the characters' forms and surroundings sporadically, Pelevin suggests that we are all small parts of strange worlds in which we often mistakenly allow our surroundings to define us.<br />Pelevin expects us to feel just about as confused as his characters do.  The book is narrated by an omniscient narrator, a seeming promise of total knowledge on completion.  But total knowledge is exactly what is missing from this book, all to its credit, since life never offers us total knowledge anyway.<br />Although many may find similarities with Kafka's Metamorphosis, Pelevin's fictional universe is more reminiscent of Italo Calvino's Cosmicomics.  Absurdly funny, inventive and playfully philosophical, The Life of Insects projects the complexities of human life onto the sparkling strangeness of the insect world with utter perfection.	2000-09-25
2270855:US	50718004	R13U86FEACCG68	0553210351	990247892	The Death of Ivan Ilyich (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	An Inauthentic Life Redeemed	&quot;He went to his study, lay down, and once again was left alone with It.  Face to face with It.  Unable to do anything with It.  Simply look at It and grow numb with horror.&quot;<br />Death is eating away at the core of Ivan Ilyich and it horrifies him.  But even more horrifying than death itself is the fact that Ilyich, despite prominence and prosperity as a Russian high court judge, has done nothing to make his life worth saving.<br />The Death of Ivan Ilyich begins at the end, as his family and friends receive the news of his demise.  Unable to fully comprehend the enormity of death, Ilyich's friends tend to dismiss it instead and seem more concerned with their game of whist.  Even Ilyich's widow, while comporting herself with the utmost propriety, secretly tallies the ways in which she will profit from her husband's demise.  Except for Ilyich's grief-stricken son, for whom we feel much sympathy, those who knew Ivan Ilyich in life, now seem to dismiss him in death, considering him little more than an inconvenient corpse, something to be disposed of as soon as possible and with a minimum of fuss.<br />The story next flashes back and Tolstoy begins to develop the character of Ilyich as a living human being.  At first glance, he seems to be a man much like his contemporaries...empty and superficial, but socially correct, much admired and possessing tremendous personal charm.  On closer examination, however, we learn that it is propriety, not morality, that rules Ilyich's life.  He takes glory in power and seems to be an individual devoid of understanding and empathy.<br />A bump on the hip provides the first crack in Ilyich's polished veneer.  Instead of healing, the bump develops into something more insidious and Ilyich is plagued by a mysterious degenerative disease that causes him great pain and terrible mental anguish.  His family and friends show little more than indifference at his sufferings, an indifference that drives Ilyich to both anger and despair.<br />Finally, exhausted with pain, Ilyich makes a last desperate assessment of his life and comes to conclusions that both shock him and serve as catalysts in healing his broken soul.<br />In Ivan Ilyich, Tolstoy shows us his genius for characterization. Ilyich's illness is so degrading (the pain, the injections of morphine, the assisted bowel movements) that we come to feel extreme sympathy for (and empathy with) Ilyich.  His death comes as a relief for all:  Ilyich is relieved from the pain of dying and living a lie, his family and friends are relieved of an obligation and the reader is relieved of a harrowing emotional journey.<br />Tolstoy presented himself with a formidable challenge when he created Ivan Ilyich.  Reader identification and sympathy is not easily aroused with a shallow and superficial protagonist.  However, as Ilyich examines his own life, we not only witness his transformation into a fully-functioning (albeit dying) human being, we come to understand Ilyich and know why he chose the life he did and why he is now so dissatisfied with it.<br />Ilyich's epiphany in the hours preceding his death provide the moments of greatest pathos.  We feel his suffering and degradation, his denial and fear, his misery and loss.  And, like Ilyich, we come to the inevitable conclusion that a life not lived authentically is really no life at all.	2000-09-25
2271030:US	50718004	R2J8KP5CW5QB69	0452260116	312810069	Song of Solomon	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Rediscovery Of The Power Within	Song of Solomon, Pulitzer and Nobel Prize winner Toni Morrison's lyrically written third novel begins with a captivating scene:  a man on a roof threatening to &quot;fly,&quot; a woman standing on the ground, singing and another woman entering labor.  The child born of that labor is Macon &quot;Milkman&quot; Dead III; Song of Solomon is the story of his lifetime journey towards an understanding to his own identity and ancestry.<br />The Deads are typical examples of Morrison's view of the patriarchal nuclear family and Milkman grows up burdened with the materialistic values of his father and the weight of a racist society.  He is a spoiled and self-centered man, driven only by his immediate sensual needs; he pursues money and sexual gratification at all costs.  <br />Much of the novel centers around Milkman's quest for a lost bag of gold allegedly taken from a man who was involved in his grandfather's murder.  This search for gold takes Milkman, and his friend, Guitar, a young, black militant, from Michigan to the town of Shalimar, Virginia, a town named for Milkman's grandfather, Solomon, who, according to legend, escaped slavery by literally flying back to Africa on the wind, launching himself from a cotton field and leaving behind his wife and twenty-one children.<br />Often seen as a myth of male maturation, Song of Solomon also contains the subtext of Milkman's sister, Pilate's rite de passage.  Her history embodies the process by which she acquires the very values that will sustain, not only Milkman but the entire black community.<br />Pilate definitely introduces a quality of enchantment to the book and the circumstances of her birth make her a character of almost mythic proportion.  She delivered herself at birth and was born without a navel, something that isolates her from society.  Her resulting self-sufficiency and ostracization, however, are the very things that prevent her from being destroyed by the decaying values that threaten her brother's life.<br/>Milkman's belief that his quest south holds the key to his liberation is correct, however it is not the gold that saves him but something deeper, something rooted in the communal and mythical values of his ancestry.<br />In telling the story of Milkman's quest, Morrison expertly weaves together elements of myth, magic and folklore.  The significant silences and the stunning absences in Song of Solomon (and Morrison's other novels) are both profoundly political and stylistically crucial.  <br />Morrison, herself, describes her work as containing &quot;holes and spaces so the reader can come into it,&quot; testament to her belief that the reader is a participant in the creation of her work.  &quot;My writing expects, demands participatory reading, and I think that is what literature is supposed to do.  It's not just about telling the story; it's about involving the reader...we come together to make this book, to feel the experience.&quot;<br />As always, Morrison constructs her novel in a circular, diffuse pattern (rather than linear), arranged thematically rather than chronologically.  Plot development, in Morrison's novels, centers around a complex compilation of multiple points of view, varieties of interpretations, repetition and reiteration.  There is no concrete series of events that can be termed, &quot;beginning, middle and end.&quot;<br />In this book, as in all her others, Morrison refuses to adopt novelistic conventions regarding closure and resolution and instead wisely chooses to employ the recurrent and pervasive use of paradox.<br />Song of Solomon is Morrison's only novel featuring a male protagonist.  Morrison said, &quot;I chose the man to make that journey because I thought he had more to learn than a woman would have.&quot;<br />Milkman certainly embodies qualities that all men seek, qualities that are decidedly masculine.  Yet it is Milkman's reconciliation with the women, and thus the feminine, in his life that gives him the strength to fulfill his quest.<br />In the telling of Milkman's compelling and beautiful story, Morrison weaves a many-hued tapestry of class and race, ancestry and identity.  The language employed is, of course, flawless:  liquid, earthy and poetic.  The characters are eccentric but real, the detail vivid and convincing.  The result is a novel that is emotionally intense, provocative and inspiring.<br />Song of Solomon is usually considered Toni Morrison's masterpiece.  It is certainly in the top echelon of literary works produced by any American author in any period of history.<br />In this novel of personal quest, Milkman eventually assumes his own destiny, a destiny that suits him perfectly and one that allows him to experience that which all men, at their deepest level, consciously and continuously, seek.	2000-09-25
2271055:US	50718004	R3ADZCXQ5I55TA	0684852683	514611459	Dreams Of My Russian Summers: A Novel	Books	5	55	63	N	N	The Beautiful Fragility of a Reverie	Andrei Makine, the author of the lyrically, poetically gorgeous book, Dreams of My Russian Summers has been compared to Nabokov, Chekhov and Proust.  Although these comparisons are meant to be flattering, they are grossly unfair, for Makine is an extraordinarily talented writer; an original, comparable to none.<br />The Russian summers of the title are those the narrator and his sister spent visiting their grandmother, Charlotte, in the town of Saranza on the eastern edge of the steppes.<br />Charlotte was born in France in 1903 and was subsequently trapped in Russia in 1921 at the outbreak of the revolution.  She has lived an outwardly harrowing life, surviving famine, civil war, a rape by a band of thieves in the desert as well as the seemingly endless cold and snows of the Siberian winter.<br />When she finally marries a Russian soldier, he is twice reported dead at the Front and Charlotte escapes the German air raid with her two children, working as a nurse in army field hospitals.  She is a woman who embraces the vastness of Russia, yet manages to keep her Frenchness alive.  <br />And it is this Frenchness, this essence of all things French, that she wishes to pass on to her grandchildren.  Apparently she succeeds.  Standing on Grandmother Charlotte's balcony, young Makine looks out over the steppes as he comes to believe that he has found the secret of &quot;being French.&quot;  He says, &quot;The countless facets of this elusive identity had formed themselves into a living whole.&quot;  He finds this elusive identity of the living whole in stark contrast to his native Russia and longs for France and its &quot;well ordered mode of existence.&quot;<br />Grandmother Charlotte's tales of her years in France are triggered by a suitcase full of crumbling family photos and yellowed newspaper clippings.  Miraculously, this suitcase has survived the Russian Civil War, famines and purges, Stalin's prison camps and Hitler's invasion.<br />These precious clippings and photos allow Charlotte's grandchildren to participate in the French joie de vivre and experience such things as the visit of Tsar Nicholas to France in 1896.  As a child growing up under the regime of Leonid Brezhnev, Makine has trouble believing that the man described as the bloody butcher of the people actually shook hands with the President of the Republique Francais as the band played the Marseillaise.  Grandmother Charlotte even remembers and can recite, the poem composed for the Tsar's visit, a poem that assured him he had earned &quot;the love of a free people.&quot;<br />Even more unbelievable to young Makine is his grandmother's revelation that only a few years after the visit from Tsar Nicholas, this very same President of France died of a heart attack in the arms of his beautiful mistress.<br />His grandmother's childhood discovery of a plaque in a Paris alleyway proves to be prophetic.  This plaque commemorates the spot where, in 1407, an assassin thrust his sword through the body of the Duke of Orleans after an amorous tryst with his sister-in-law, the Queen, the lovely Isabeau.  Makine, himself, as an adult, will find himself, almost miraculously, in this very same alleyway.<br />In between his idyllic visits to Saranza and Grandmother Charlotte, Makine is growing up in grim shabbiness in his parents' home in Moscow.  Large apartment blocks built in the grandiose Stalinist style stand out in stark contrast to the &quot;mysterious French essence&quot; of Grandmother Charlotte and her home on the steppes.  Makine wants to literally absorb France's Belle Epoque, but he must contend with his socialist schoolmates instead.<br />Impressionable and in love with a land he can only dream about, Makine rebels against both the ordinariness of Soviet life and the grandmother he loves but fails to understand.<br />A true master of prose, Makine contrasts Russia and France beautifully.  Several times in the novel, Russia is mentioned as breathing and alive; the worldof harsh realities.  France, on the other hand, is a dream world and its images are spun from the rich and elaborate Impressionistic language of fantasy.<br />Although Dreams of My Russian Summers was both written and translated by a man, the imagery evoked is decidedly feminine, especially that pertaining to France; the petite pomme of a smile in a photograph, the coupling hawkmoths with the death's head and the repeated image of the Verdun stone.<br />The entire book, however, is the story of a young boy's maturation into a sensitive and intelligent man.  A man who loves the present, yet has come to revere the past.  A man who is thankful for the contrast provided in his life, a contrast he calls &quot;an optical illusion&quot; offering the most luminous moments of his life.<br />Readers are offered nothing less than the beautiful fragility of a reverie, to be visited again and again.	2000-09-25
2271552:US	50718004	RRX9FHVKNMDAW	0679439161	999293333	All Rivers Run to the Sea: Memoirs	Books	5	93	97	N	N	Remember	In Elie Wiesel's beautiful book, Memoirs:  All Rivers Run to the Sea, he again accomplishes what he has accomplished most perfectly in all of his previous works--translating the personal into the universal.  Wiesel is also a master storyteller and he does his job flawlessly in this poignant and unforgettable book, relating his memoirs in a frame, both beginning and ending All Rivers Run to the Sea with a dream.<br />He beings with a dream about his father, and the haunting words, &quot;Last night I saw my father in a dream.&quot;  Of course, this is no ordinary dream, but a dream that reveals volumes about Wiesel's life and its ever-present themes.  Imprisoned at both Buchenwald and Auschwitz, Wiesel, who shared the darkest moments of his life with his father, saw the man he never really knew die of starvation and dysentery, while his mother and youngest sister, the beautiful little Tzipora, were murdered in the ovens of Auschwitz.<br />In the second dream, Wiesel brings his memoirs to a close as he describes his joyous wedding day in the Old City of Jerusalem.  Although a happy groom, Wiesel is by no means a traditional one.  Retreating into a silent reverie, he tries somehow to include his parents and baby sister in the wedding festivities, thus rounding out the family circle he loved so much.<br />Between these two sad and haunting dreams, Wiesel, who often employs frames in relating a tale, tells us the story of the early years of his life.<br />Born in Sighet, Romania on 30 September 1928 to Shlomo and Sarah Feig Wiesel, Elie Wiesel lived the early years of his life happily, in the center of Jewish culture.  Although his family was quite traditional, it was in Sighet that Wiesel began experimenting with more mystical lines of thought.  Possessed with a passion for learning, he studied both Hebrew and Yiddish as well as delving into the ancient texts of the Jewish faith.<br />It was on 19 March 1944 that this idyllic boyhood with an intensely spiritual family came to an abrupt end.  An unspeakable darkness fell upon Sighet's entire Jewish community as all of the nearly 15,000 residents were arrested and deported to Auschwitz, Poland.  <br />Wiesel is chilling as he relates the horror and uncertainty of traveling in the cattle cars, of the  painful separation of loving families and the violation and exploitation of human beings by...other human beings.<br />It was only after the liberation of the camps in 1945, that Wiesel discovered that his two older sisters, Hilda and Batya had survived.  Although overjoyed at their reunion, the loss of his younger sister is something so painful, so beyond Wiesel's imagination, that even today, he cannot speak of it.<br />For a full ten years, Wiesel remained silent regarding his experiences in the death camps, wondering why he had survived while so many others had perished.  He said, &quot;In those years, it was very difficult to talk about the subject.  I grew up in a mystical atmosphere, believing in silence, so I tried to use what I learned to purify the words, to purify language.&quot;<br />Relocated to France, Wiesel studied at the Sorbonne where he learned French, philosophy, literature and psychology while working at a variety of odd jobs.  Eventually, he chose journalism as his career and he tells of his travels to Jerusalem, New York and many other places.<br />Although a dark and somber book, All Rivers Run to the Sea is not without its lighter moments.  One of these occurs in New York after Wiesel was struck by a taxi, hospitalized and cornered by a somewhat overly-zealous attorney.  As Wiesel lay in the hospital, immobilized, his French travel documents expired and he became a United States citizen.<br />Although it is Wiesel's own father who haunts his sleeping dreams, it is another Being who troubles his waking thoughts, a Being Weisel, through the teachings of his faith, calls God.<br />Evident in the quote taken from Ecclesiastes Wiesel chose as the subtitle of his memoirs, is the question that haunts his daily life:  How could God, during the Holocaust, remain silent and watch the senseless death of six million human beings?  Human beings, He, Himself, created?<br />Although Wiesel's observations have been brilliant, he has, by his own admission, failed to reach an answer.  Like the Hebrew sage who wrote Ecclesiastes, Wiesel observes that, &quot;All rivers run to the sea, yet the sea is never full; unto the place from whence the rivers come, thither they return again.&quot;<br />Like the author of Ecclesiastes, Wiesel, in this book, makes a wide investigation of life, leading the reader from the happiness of his boyhood to the misery of his youth to the honors of his mature life (including the 1986 Nobel Peace Prize).  And, like the author of Ecclesiastes, Wiesel finds no satisfying answer.  For him, the joys of life are forever tinged with sadness; the specter of death is never far away.<br />In All Rivers Run to the Sea, Elie Wiesel makes full use of the piety and wisdom of Hasidism and his memoirs read like a novel of the highest order.  Intended for those who have made, or want to make, their own investigation of life and its mysteries, most especially that of humanity's incomprehensible inhumanity, this is a superb tale of unvarnished truthfulness, humility and awareness.<br />Wiesel, in beautiful language that mingles sadness and joy, horror and triumph, writes for those of us who dare to look into the darkest moments of life, searching for a little light, a ray of the faintest hope.  He writes, not so we know, but that we may hunger for more.<br />An incredible human being whose tragedy became the impetus for a life filled with the profoundest meaning, Wiesel, like Martin Buber before him, is ready to &quot;hurtle down deep pathways, wander through invisible cemeteries, both seeking and fleeing solitude and receiving stories already told and those...yet to be told.&quot;<br />All Rivers Run to the Sea is more than just a supremely important book; it is one of the most important books in the literature of humankind.	2000-09-25
2271604:US	50718004	R1ROEXWANPQ3BX	0805209956	912102561	Tales of the Hasidim (The Early Masters / The Later Masters)	Books	4	53	57	N	N	Charming and Informative but Not Historically Accurate	One of the major phases of Jewish literature is that produced by Hasidim, a sect founded in the eighteenth century by Israel ben Eliezer, also known as the Ba'al Shem Tov of Besht.  After his death in 1760, one of his disciples compiled a collection of legends and folktales that had become associated with him.<br />During the twentieth century, Martin Buber undertook the task of retelling the legends of the Ba'al Shem Tov.  Although Buber's retelling of these Hasidic folktales has been beneficial in allowing the reader to focus on finding the seed of relevancy behind the historical context, they remain only one scholar's interpretation of the folktales and therefore, not a truly objective work.<br />In assessing these folktales we must ask ourselves if one should strive to preserve original intent at the cost of modern accessibility or whether one should allow an historical text to evolve and change with the times.<br />Although Buber certainly performed a service by bringing translations and interpretations of Hasidic tales to modern readers, the problem with these tales is that, when reading them, one is inclined to forget that Buber is projecting his own opinions on the historical reality of the folktales, an historical reality that others might interpret in a very different light.  Without examining primary source documents, we might be inclined to accept all that Buber says as true.<br />Buber, in his translations, seems to intentionally manipulate these primary source documents, documents to which most of us have no access, in order to align them to his own beliefs regarding Hasidim.  Thus, the spiritual message Buber reads into these folktales is far too closely tied to his own philosophy of religious anarchism and existentialism.<br />This raises great problems for those who are not aware of Buber's own biases as a scholar as well as misleading the more casual reader.  Buber stressed the legends of Hasidim as our main source of understanding while greatly ignoring the large body of theoretical writings.  He reasoned that the theoretical writings were &quot;far too dependent on the older Kabbalistic literature to be regarded as genuinely Hasidic.&quot;<br />The legends and folktales presented in Tales of the Hasidim are certainly extremely interesting and do possess general human interest, however, if we truly want to know what they meant in their original context we would still have to revert to the primary sources which Buber pushes aside as merely secondary.<br />Despite Buber's obvious biases, he did endeavor to transform the Hasidic tradition from something stultifying to something rewarding, even if in doing so he ended up diluting parts of this tradition in order to make it more palatable to modern readers.<br />This presentation has, however, stood the test of time, and perhaps &quot;standing the test of time&quot; is really the greatest thing that can be asked for in terms of the transmission of a tradition.  If we only keep in mind the fact that Buber's tales are interpretations only and are not necessarily representative of historical Hasidim, his folktales become interesting and charming not only to the literary community but also to anyone interested in studying a modern version of the Hasidic message.	2000-09-25
2275201:US	50718004	R3VVYK3YIJ7U5X	0521289270	217010756	Untimely Meditations (Texts in German Philosophy)	Books	5	58	59	N	N	Unfashionable Observations	Nietzsche wrote &quot;David Strauss, the Confessor and the Writer&quot; in 1873, the first of his Unfashionable Observations, at the behest of Richard Wagner.  David Strauss was an eminent theologian, whose The Life of Jesus Critically Examined (1864) had had a tremendous impact due to its demystification of Jesus' life. Strauss had contended that the supernatural claims made about the historical Jesus could be explained in terms of the particular needs of his community.  Although Strauss defends Christianity for it's moral ideals, his demythologizing of Jesus appealed to Nietzsche.<br />Nevertheless, Wagner had been publicly denounced by Strauss in 1865 for having persuaded Ludwig II to fire a musician rival.  Not one to forget an assault, Wagner encouraged Nietzsche to read Strauss' recent The Old and the New Faith (1872), which advocated the rejection of the Christian faith in favor of a Darwinian, materialistic and patriotic worldview.  Wagner described the book to Nietzsche as extremely superficial, and Nietzsche agreed with Wagner's opinion, despite the similarity of his own views to Strauss' perspective on religion.<br />This Unfashionable Observation, accordingly, was Nietzsche's attempt to avenge Wagner by attacking Strauss' recent book.  In fact, the essay is at least as much an argumentative attack on Strauss as on his book, for Nietzsche identifies Strauss as a cultural &quot;Philistine&quot; and exemplar of pseudoculture.  The resulting essay appears extremely intemperate, although erudite, filled with references to many of Nietzsche's scholarly contemporaries.  The climax is a literary tour de force, in which Nietzsche cites a litany of malapropisms from Strauss, interspersed with his own barbed comments.<br />Nietzsche's second Unfashionable Observation, &quot;On the Advantages and Disadvantages of History for Life&quot; (1874) is &quot;unfashionable&quot; because it questions the apparent assumption of nineteenth century German educators that historical knowledge is intrinsically valuable.  Nietzsche argues, in contrast, that historical knowledge is valuable only when it has a positive effect on human beings' sense of life. Although he acknowledges that history does provide a number of benefits in this respect, Nietzsche also contends that there are a number of ways in which historical knowledge could prove damaging to those who pursued it and that many of his contemporaries were suffering these ill effects.<br />Nietzsche contends that history can play three positive roles, which he terms &quot;monumental,&quot; &quot;antiquarian,&quot; and &quot;critical.&quot;  Monumental history brings the great achievements of humanity into focus.  This genre of history has value for contemporary individuals because it makes them aware of what is possible for human beings to achieve.  Antiquarian history, history motivated primarily out of a spirit of reverence for the past, can be valuable to contemporary individuals by helping them appreciate their lives and culture.  Critical history, history approached in an effort to pass judgment, provides a counter-balancing effect to that inspired by antiquarian history.  By judging the past, those engaged in critical history remain attentive to flaws and failures in the experience of their culture, thereby avoiding slavish blindness in their appreciation of it.<br />The problem with historical scholarship in his own time, according to Nietzsche, was that historical knowledge was pursued for its own sake.  He cited five dangers resulting from such an approach to history:  (1) Modern historical knowledge undercuts joy in the present, since it makes the present appear as just another episode.  (2) Modern historical knowledge inhibits creative activity by convincing those made aware of the vast sweep of historical currents that their present actions are too feeble to change the past they have inherited.  (3) Modern historical knowledge encourages the sense that the inner person is disconnected from the outer world by assaulting the psyche with more information than it can absorb and assimilate. ( 4) Modern historical knowledge encourages a jaded relativism toward reality and present experience, motivated by a sense that because things keep changing present states of affairs do not matter. (5) Modern historical knowledge inspires irony and cynicism about the contemporary individual's role in the world; the historically knowledgeable person comes to feel increasingly like an afterthought in the scheme of things, imbued by a sense of belatedness.<br />Although Nietzsche was convinced that the current approach to history was psychologically and ethically devastating to his contemporaries, particularly the young, he contends that antidotes could reverse those trends.  One antidote is the unhistorical, the ability to forget how overwhelming the deluge of historical information is, and to &quot;enclose oneself within a bounded horizon.&quot;  A second antidote is the suprahistorical, a shift of focus from the ongoing flux of history to &quot;that which bestows upon existence the character of the eternal and stable, towards art and religion.&quot;<br />Nietzsche's third Unfashionable Observation &quot;Schopenhauer as Educator&quot; (1874), probably provides more information about Nietzsche himself than it does about Schopenhauer or his philosophy.<br />Schopenhauer, in Nietzsche's idealizing perspective, is exemplary because he was so thoroughly an individual genius.  Schopenhauer was one of those rare individuals whose emergence is nature's true goal in producing humanity, Nietzsche suggests.  He praises Schopenhauer's indifference to the mediocre academicians of his era, as well as his heroism as a philosophical loner.<br />Strangely, given Schopenhauer's legendary pessimism, Nietzsche praises his &quot;cheerfulness that really cheers&quot; along with his honesty and steadfastness.  But Nietzsche argues that in addition to specific traits that a student might imitate, Schopenhauer offers a more important kind of example.  Being himself attuned to the laws of his own character, Schopenhauer directed those students who were incapable of insight to recognize the laws of their own character.  By reading and learning from Schopenhauer, one could develop one's own individuality.<br />&quot;Richard Wagner in Bayreuth&quot; (1876), the fourth and final of Nietzsche's published Unfashionable Observations, was intended as an essay of praise to Wagner, much like &quot;Schopenhauer as Educator.&quot; Nietzsche's relationship with Wagner had been strained by the time he wrote the essay, however, and the tension is evident in the text, which emphasizes Wagner's psychology (a theme that would preoccupy Nietzsche in many of his future writings).  Nietzsche, himself, may have been concerned about the extent to which the essay might be perceived as unflattering, for he considered not publishing it.  Ultimately, Nietzsche published a version of the essay that was considerably less critical of Wagner than were earlier drafts, and Wagner was pleased enough to send a copy of the essay to King Ludwig.	2000-09-21
2275210:US	50718004	R25FDVKL61OBGT	0394719859	901867030	The Gay Science: With a Prelude in Rhymes and an Appendix of Songs	Books	5	60	65	N	N	Amor Fati	Nietzsche's The Gay Science proposes an antidote to the condition of contemporary scholarship.  As opposed to what he saw as contemporary scholars' ant-like drudgery in amassing facts, he recommends &quot;the gay science,&quot; a kind of scholarship that would be lighthearted and deliberately &quot;superficial--out of profundity&quot; as he claims that the Greeks were.  Aware of the murkier aspects of human existence, the ancient Athenians responded by taking aesthetic delight in life and becoming &quot;adorers of forms, tones, of words.&quot;  In his own era, in which many felt incapable of transforming reality, Nietzsche proposed that this would be the appropriate convalescence for scholars, as it had been for him in his own personal life.<br />In The Gay Science, the infamous statement &quot;God is dead&quot; appears for the first time.  The most important mention of this belief comes in the section called &quot;The Madman.&quot;  The madman in this section appears in the marketplace and makes the announcement &quot;God is dead&quot; to the scientific atheists who have gathered there.  After the atheists merely laugh at him, the madman realizes that he has come too early, and he goes around to different towns singing funeral hymns during masses.<br />This parable suggests the inappropriateness of the popular characterization of Nietzsche as the hardened atheist who delights in nothing more than debunking other people's beliefs.  Nevertheless, the perspective that Nietzsche proposes throughout The Gay Science is naturalistic and aesthetic, in opposition to traditional religious views.  Indeed, many of the work's sections might be considered practical advice for the spiritually sensitive atheist who is concerned lest he or she return to old religious habits out of desperation.  Nietzsche proposes as an alternative to religious views that seek life's meaning in an afterlife, an immanent appreciation of this life in aesthetic terms.  Ideal, he suggests, is the experience of amor fati (love of fate), in which one loves one's life, with all its flaws, just for what it is.<br />Nietzsche's most complex and controversial image for the satisfaction that one would ideally take in one's earthly life is his doctrine of eternal recurrence.  The concept of eternal recurrence seems to suggest that time is cyclical, with the entire sequence of all events recurring over and over again.  In Nietzsche's published works, this concept is first suggested in Book Four of The Gay Science entitled &quot;The Greatest Stress.&quot;	2000-09-21
2275438:US	50718004	R2ZQS3YYFRSZQS	0394704371	572787164	The Will to Power	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Opus Magnum	This is Nietzsche's opus magnum.  It contains collected notes and unfinished chapters from 1884-1888.  Published posthumously by his sister, this book contains his biography and all of his essential themes and philosophies.  In it he talks about the Ubermensch.  The Ubermensch is the man who has overcame himself and grows each day.  He is the one who reveals his will to power on the environment that surrounds him.  He lives in the moment of each and every second.  He is the man who has organized his passions of chaos and is disciplined.  He is the ultimate artist who has created himself and given himself a specific style.  He lives without resentment and, if able to live his life over again, would; which is another new theme, eternal reoccurrence which states that history of the world repeats itself over and over again and we live our lives again and again.  This idea is both revolutionary and skeptical, yet it was another idea from a revolutionary thinker.  In The Will To Power, Nietzsche talks of all his ideas:  The Antichrist, Christian Morality and Art.  He talks of life being a beautiful piece of art and how one must be the artist of his own life.  The Will to Power suggests that one will become more and more influential to his surrounding atmosphere. One must make more and more effects through his creations, but one mustn't become too complex or he will lose more and more power.  There is some speculation that Nietzsche's sister and her husband arranged many of Nietzsche's notes after his death and may have changed many things in his original notes.  His sister was anti-semitic and Nietzsche did not organize his thoughts on paper as well as he organized his passions.  Still, this is Nietzsche's opus magnum, the one book that contains all of his thoughts and philosophies and conclusions.	2000-09-21
2275491:US	50718004	R3A9G5NFMS0GTF	0521567041	426290981	Nietzsche: Human, All Too Human: A Book for Free Spirits (Cambridge Texts in the History of Philosophy)	Books	5	48	50	N	N	Nietzsche's Free Spirits	Nietzsche is often said to have entered a new period with the publication of Human All Too Human and the book is considerably more positivistic than his earlier writings.  It aims at debunking unwarranted assumptions more than at defending a grand interpretation of its own, and it marks the high point of Nietzsche's interest in, and applause for, natural science.<br />Nietzsche describes what he means by &quot;free spirits&quot; in the preface to the second edition of Human All Too Human.  Free spirits contrast with the typical human being of his era, who was, as the title suggests, all too human.  Free spirits in contrast, are ideal companions that do not yet exist but may appear in the future.  They are those who have freed themselves from the chains of the dominant culture, even from the bonds of reverence for those things they once found most praiseworthy.  The dangerous period of the free spirit is introduced by the desire to flee whatever has been one's previous spiritual world, a desire that leads to a reconsideration of matters that previously had been taken for granted.  The ultimate aim of this liberation is independent self-mastery and supreme health in a life of continual experimentation and adventure.<br />Human All Too Human is the first published work in which Nietzsche defends his famed perspectivism, the view that truths are one and all interpretations are thus formulated from particular perspectives.  This perspectivism figures importantly in his debunking critique of morality which is first presented in Human All Too Human.  Nietzsche denies that morality is anything but perspectival.  Contrary to the claims of moralists, morality is not inherent in or determined by reality.  It is, in fact, the invention of human beings.  Moreover, morality has not been the same in every culture and at every time.  Nietzsche explicitly contrasts Christian and Greek moral thought, typically claiming that Greek thought had been vastly superior.<br />Nietzsche, himself, considered the book a breakthrough because it openly articulated his unconventional conclusions for the first time.  It also sealed the break with Richard Wagner, who received the book in silence.  Nietzsche also considered himself to have moved far beyond Schopenhauerian metaphysics at this point in his life.<br />Human All Too Human was also the first of Nietzsche's published aphoristic works, where prior publications had been in the form of essays or similarly structured works.self, considered the book a breakthrough because it openly articulated his unconventional conclusions for the first time.  It also sealed the break with Richard Wagner, who received the book in silence.  Nietzsche also considered himself to have moved far beyond Schopenhauerian metaphysics at this point in his life.<br />Human All Too Human was also the first of Nietzsche's published aphoristic works, where prior publications had been in the form of essays or similarly structured works.	2000-09-21
2276903:US	50718004	R14O8TGW3IYPCM	0802116604	631616955	Mr. Spaceman	Books	5	11	12	N	N	No Ordinary Spaceman	Mr. Spaceman had its genesis in one of the funniest and most poignant stories in Butler's last collection, Tabloid Dreams.  In &quot;Help Me Find  My Spaceman Lover,&quot; lonely Edna Bradshaw told of falling in love with  Desi, an alien being, in the parking lot of an Alabama Wal-Mart.  Now  Butler has picked up Desi and Edna's story at a later point.  Married and  hovering above the earth at the end of the year 2000, they're entertaining  an entire busload of Texans bound for a Louisiana casino.  Desi has beamed  both bus and passengers up to his spaceship so he can continue his research  into the nature of human beings.  This is to prepare him to reveal himself  and his spaceship to earth media on New Year's Eve. <br />With down-home  hospitality, Edna offers cheese straws and sausage balls to the abducted  bus passengers who can't help noticing Desi's eight fingers on each hand,  all ending in little sucker disks.  But he's no ordinary spaceman; he's  simple and wise by turns, lacing his conversation with earthly advertising  slogans and song titles.  &quot;I'm a friendly guy,&quot; he says.   &quot;There Is a Kind of Hush All Over the World Tonight.  I Would Like to  Teach the World to Sing. I Would Like to Buy the World a Coke.&quot;  <br />Eventually Desi learns the life stories of the individual passengers  through his empathic powers. Though these often moving monologues from the  heart compose a kind of cross-section of American humanity, many have the  familiar ring of characters met too often in recent fiction.  None is as  engaging or original as Desi himself.  His visit to an American  supermarket, dressed in zoot suit and hat, is one of the most hilarious  scenes in the book. <br />Butler's blend of humor and insight, along with his  ability to examine the human condition, is on display here, as it was in  Tabloid Dreams and Good Scent from a Strange Mountain.  Mr. Spaceman,  though, is a tour de force, a flight of fancy which lands squarely in the  center of the heart.	2000-09-20
2277400:US	50718004	RUZLR6SYZJ868	0060931914	126399491	Demian (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Forbidden Treasures and Mysterious Tales	In Hermann Hesse's Demian, Emil Sinclair develops into a self-cognizant man after experiencing true friendship and the purity of life.  Immaturity  and innocence surround him as a child until a confidant by the name of Max  Demian places him on the path to understanding, opening Sinclair's eyes to  the feebleness of life and helping him to recognize his true  purpose.<br />Beginning life in the &quot;realm of light,&quot; Sinclair  passes through life scorned as an outcast.  After telling a small lie in  order to gain peer approval, an inner destruction begins to take  place.<br />Not until Demian, whose &quot;manner and bearing was that of a  prince disguised among farm boys,&quot; enters Sinclair's life, do things  begin to brighten.  Demian seems to be able to look past the lonely and  depressed appearance of Sinclair directly into his soul.<br />After much  conversing, Sinclair realizes the vastness of Demian's intelligence and  that Demian's magnificent mental strength can overpower anyone or anything.  As he begins to develop more understanding, Sinclair, himself enters the  dark realm of forbidden treasures and mysterious tales; nothing matters to  him anymore except his inner being, much in the &quot;way leaves fall  around a tree in autumn, a tree unaware of the rain running down its sides,  of the sun or the frost, and of life gradually retreating inward.  The tree  does not die.  It waits.&quot;<br />Once separated from Demian, however,  Sinclair's life begins to deteriorate and &quot;once again he belonged  entirely to the world of darkness and to the devil,&quot; until another  great power enters his life in the form of the woman, Beatrice, who is able  to resurrect the image of Demian, profoundly affecting Sinclair's deepest  emotions.  It is, however, when a man named Pistorius enters Sinclair's  life that he comes to a new understanding and progresses in discovering  himself through his own dreams, thoughts and intimations.<br />Sinclair does  reunite with Demian and also develops a relationship with Demian's mother,  Frau Eva, but when war breaks out in Russia the three are once again  separated.  Sinclair and Demian, however, are destined to meet again.  But  in the meantime Sinclair always carried the image of Demian with him,  remarking, &quot;Sometimes when I find the key and climb deep into myself I  need only bend over that dark mirror to behold my own image, now completely  resembling him, my brother, my master.&quot;<br />While not as dark as  Steppenwolf nor as dense as The Glass Bead Game, Demian does explore the  darker regions of human nature and many of Hesse's profound thoughts will  linger long after readers have finished this book.<br />Demian is truly Hesse  at his finest and his writing is not only powerful, it is also simple and  direct.  The characters come alive and we feel connected to Sinclair from  the first sentence.<br />A powerful exploration of both  &quot;separateness&quot; and &quot;connectedness,&quot; Demian is one of  those rare books with the ability to enter one's soul and alter one's life.te with Demian and also develops a relationship with Demian's mother,  Frau Eva, but when war breaks out in Russia the three are once again  separated.  Sinclair and Demian, however, are destined to meet again.  But  in the meantime Sinclair always carried the image of Demian with him,  remarking, &quot;Sometimes when I find the key and climb deep into myself I  need only bend over that dark mirror to behold my own image, now completely  resembling him, my brother, my master.&quot;<br />While not as dark as  Steppenwolf nor as dense as The Glass Bead Game, Demian does explore the  darker regions of human nature and many of Hesse's profound thoughts will  linger long after readers have finished this book.<br />Demian is truly Hesse  at his finest and his writing is not only powerful, it is also simple and  direct.  The characters come alive and we feel connected to Sinclair from  the first sentence.<br />A powerful exploration of both  &quot;separateness&quot; and &quot;connectedness,&quot; Demian is one of  those rare books with the ability to enter one's soul and alter one's life.	2000-09-20
2277743:US	50718004	RLXGE81IWDCV3	0385498799	223812993	Bee Season: A Novel	Books	4	11	12	N	N	The Unraveling Fabric of Family Life	The Naumanns are an ordinary Jewish family.  Saul, the father, is a cantor  who spends much of his time in his study absorbed in Jewish mysticism and  he considers himself to be the respected head of the household;  Miriam,  the mother, is a successful but emotionally distant attorney who also does  her best to keep the house clean and food on the table; Aaron, the son, is  intelligent, if somewhat nerdy, and, much to his father's delight, he wants  to become a rabbi someday, he is the vessel of all of his father's  spiritual ambitions; Eliza, the daughter, is the disappointment of the  family because she is the only one who does not seem to be  &quot;gifted&quot; in some special way.  Instead of studying like her  brother, Eliza would rather spend her afternoons watching television  reruns.  The conflicts and problems these characters face seem, on the  surface, to be the ordinary conflicts all families must deal with:   competition, work, expectations.  By the end of this amazing book, however,  these &quot;ordinary&quot; illusions are shattered as each character's  internal struggles prove stronger than the synthetic family unit.<br />The  pivotal occurrence in the Naumann's family life is nothing more than an  ordinary spelling bee.  Eliza, wins, first the elementary school spelling  bee, then the district bee, the state bee and finally is propelled into the  national bee.  As the Naumann's come to realize this daughter is not quite  as ordinary as they thought, things begin to change.  Saul inducts her into  his hallowed study and lavishes upon her the attention he previously  reserved for Aaron, who, in his displacement embarks upon a lone quest for  spiritual and emotional fulfillment.<br />The picture the Naumann family  presents as they proceed to fall apart can, at times, be very funny, and by  the end of the novel nothing is as it seemed to be or as it should  be.<br />Although it is anticipated from the beginning of the book, it is the  struggle betweenthe father and his children that is the most emotionally  interesting, since Saul is a deep and emotional thinker, a  &quot;Cheerleader Mom&quot; who cannot see his own faults.<br />Although  Goldberg has a keen eye for detail that brings her characters to life, the  book is not without its faults.  Some of Eliza's struggles to discover her  own mystic talents become dry as much of the theory and subsequent trances  are written in great detail from the mind of a nine year old child.  The  struggles between Aaron and his father become a little tiring and Aaron's  break is complete long before his struggles end on paper.  In contrast,  Miriam's struggles and ultimate transformation occur too abruptly.  Her  psyche is odd and not well-revealed.<br />Still, Bee Season is the work of a  lyrical and gifted storyteller and it delicately examines the unraveling  fabric of one family.  The outcome is unconventional, as is Goldberg's  prose, which wields its metaphors sharply and rings with maturity.  This is  a different sort of book about an altogether too familiar subject and it  will certainly enrich and enliven anyone who reads it.	2000-09-19
2277924:US	50718004	RIGN0D9XW7NZQ	0140157085	351664366	In Praise of the Stepmother	Books	5	22	24	N	N	In Praise of Vargas Llosa	For North Americans and Europeans, In Praise of the Stepmother is no doubt the best known and most controversial of all of Peruvian writer Mario  Vargas Llosa's books.  Wickedly witty and fun, this is a strange and  beautiful little gem and a truly masterful and original piece of erotic  storytelling.<br />Lucrecia, newly married to Lima resident, Don Rigoberto, an  older, wealthy collector of erotic paintings, suddenly finds her position  jeopardized by her husband's young son, Alfonso. She honestly wants the boy  to love her, but at what cost?  When Fonchito's hard won affection becomes  hopelessly entangled with precocious--and dangerous--desire, the fun  certainly begins, but the price, we see, may prove to be all too high.<br />As  the relationship progresses into absurdity during Don Rigoberto's  all-too-often absences, Vargas Llosa provides thematic commentary in the  form of selections from the Don's art collection, included as full-color  reproductions of famous paintings, from the Renaissance to the present day,  each accompanied by a story to which the painting is to be an illustration.   As the book progresses, so does the parade of paintings, twisting and  expanding the concept of erotica.  <br />For a small book, In Praise of the  Stepmother has an enormous potential to enthrall and, yes, provoke.  You  might wonder how anyone could have written a book as good as this one.  The  only answer, of course, is that it is Vargas Llosa...at his best.   <br />Strangely enough, in South America, it is Vargas Llosa's political  novels that cause controversy; in North America, it is the sexual content.   The cover of this little gem, Exposure of Luxury by Bronzino, was enough to  make the censors want to go to work.<br />Anyone who loves wickedness, fun,  wit or Vargas Llosa with fall in love with this book at the drop of  a...stepmother.	2000-09-19
2278251:US	50718004	R1X1XNNWAKDRIJ	0811208478	148567452	Journey to the End of the Night (English and French Edition)	Books	5	36	40	N	N	The Sound of Wild and Raucous Laughter	In George Steiner's novella, The Portage to San Cristobel of A.H., Nazi  hunters discover an aged Adolf Hitler living quietly in the Peruvian  jungle.  Their plan is to kill Hitler, however they offer him the chance to  defend himself instead.  He is defiant, reckless and taunts them.  &quot;I  am an old man...You have made of me some kind of mad devil, the  quintessence of evil, hell embodied.  When I was, in truth, only a man of  my time.  Oh, inspired I grant you...with a nose for supreme political  possibility.  A master of human moods, perhaps, but a man of my  time.&quot;<br />Louis-Ferdinand Destouches (Celine was a pseudonym) was, like  Steiner's Hitler, certainly an inspired man of his time, perhaps  terrifyingly so.  Born in 1894 to a lowly Parisian family, he had a brutal  childhood.  Poor, dysfunctional, but recklessly ambitious, he longed to  escape all that constrained him.  He eventually found a release of sorts  through the study of medicine and, after patriotically enlisting, in the  trenches of the western front.  He was seriously wounded and later  decorated.<br />Celine's revulsion against his wartime experiences infused his  debut, Journey to the End of Night (1934), perhaps the greatest work of  nihilism, as well as one of the finest novels, of the century.  The first  hundred pages or so contain descriptions of the absurd carnage of war that  few works, not even Erich Maria Remarque's, All Quiet on the Western Front,  have matched.  After the war, Celine qualified as a physician and traveled  in French and Belgian colonial Africa before returning to work as a doctor  among the urban poor of Paris.<br />Celine draws freely from his bank of  experiences in Journey to the End of Night; the adventures of the  hero-narrator, Fedinand Bardamu, mimic exactly those of the author himself.   He travel from the &quot;fiery furnace&quot; of the western front to the  screaming jungles of central Africa, and from New York to the slums of  Paris.  The engineof Celine's disgust is an irrational misanthropy.  It is  irrational because it is contradictory:  those he scourges, he later  pities; those he helps, he comes to despise.  <br />In Ferdinand's despair at  what industrialization and incipient democracy have done to the  contemporary soul, we are reminded of the anguish of Nietzsche's raging  free spirit, Zarathustra.  Like Zarathustra, Fedinand rails against the  instincts of mass man and of the &quot;herd,&quot; then crowns himself with  laughter.  For without laughter he knows he is nothing.  &quot;Death is  chasing you, you've always got to hurry, and while you're looking you've  got to eat, and keep away from wars.  That's a lot of things to do.  It's  no picnic.&quot;<br />In this astonishing book, Celine immerses the reader in  a torrential flow of language--fragmented, coarse, street poetic, blackly  comic and full of neologisms and ellipses.  For this reason, one can only  reap the full impact of Celine when he is read in the original French.  He  writes of suffering, debased lives and poverty with reckless abandon.  His  vision of humanity in thrall to its own weakness is utterly cynical.  He  leads his characters--Robinson, a romantic wanderer, conscripted soldiers,  abused prostitutes--to the edge of the abyss, the pushes them over.  As  they fall we hear only the sad echo of their voices--and Celine's wild and  raucous laughter.	2000-09-19
2278342:US	50718004	R3AMRKON9O89W3	0679729526	58983679	The Aeneid (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Beautiful Stunning and Influential	When the Roman armies conquered the remnants of Alexander's empire in 168 B.C., they recognized something in Greek culture that was more impressive  than anything Rome, itself, had achieved.  The result is that Rome adapted  itself to the model of Greece.  <br />Among the adaptors of Greek culture,  none was more brilliant, original or influential than the poet Virgil.  He  faced a formidable challenge in that everyone who encountered Greek culture  recognized how much it had been shaped by Homer.  To write a Roman  equivalent to The Iliad or The Odyssey required the ability to think, a way  with words, and a storytelling capacity that would enable a poet to do for  Rome what Homer had done for Greece.  Only one poet succeeded and that was  Virgil.<br />Virgil began working on The Aeneid with an advantage Homer  lacked:  he was literate.  Unlike the Greek aoidos, Virgil did not learn  his art from oral storytellers.  As his hero, Virgil chose a Trojan fighter  whom Homer describes briefly in The Iliad.  Virgil kept the outlines of  Homer's Aeneas, but he developed the character in new and profound  directions.<br />The Aeneid resembles The Odyssey in recounting a series of  Mediterranean adventures and an eventual homecoming (Books 1-6).  It  resembles The Illiad in recounting a war to capture a city (Books 7-12).   But the home to which Aeneas sails is a new one, and his quest is to  establish something that had not before existed rather than to return to  something he once knew, as Odysseus does.  The Aeneid is a founding myth  and virtually every episode is symbolically charged with the weight of  Aeneas's historic destiny.  This destiny is the very thing that enables  Virgil to reshape the character he found in Homer, transforming a warrior  hero into a man who would influence the world for centuries to come.<br />We  see Aeneas gradually changing in a series of crises throughout the first  half of the poem.  Virgil presents Aeneas's departure from Troy as a  departure from the values that had defined Homer's story of the war to  capture Troy.  One of the most memorable portraits of Aeneas is his weeping  in Carthage as he contemplates depictions of the Trojan war:  &quot;there  are tears for passing things; here, too/things mortal touch the mind.&quot;   The tears of a Homeric hero have never had such weighty moral and historic  implications.<br />Readers of The Odyssey will recognize that Virgil has  modeled Aeneas's affair with Dido (Books 1-4) on Odysseus's affair with  various females on his way home from Troy.  Aeneas's departure from  Carthage has many parallels with Odysseus's departure from Ogygia, where he  lived for seven years with Kalypso.  In both cases, the foremost of the  gods (Zeus for Homer and Jupiter for Virgil) sends the messenger of the  gods (Hermes for Homer and Mercury for Virgil) on an impressive descent to  the place where the hero is detained.  Also, in both cases, the messenger  speaks to someone about the necessity for the hero to leave and a loving  female is abandoned by the hero.  <br />But the Dido episode is not just an  imitation of Homer; it is a total reinterpretation of what such an episode  means in the context of historic destiny.  Rich with symbolic and  historical implications, the Dido episode is also a poignant tragedy.<br />The  foundation that Aeneas lays in The Aeneid is for &quot;the ramparts of high  Rome,&quot; but he lays it symbolically, and he does not found a city, he  captures one.  Here, Virgil is treating readers to what today would be  termed historical fiction.<br />The real foundation Aeneas lays is for the  moral fabric of an ideal Rome; an ideal Virgil, himself, hoped for in the  Rome he knew.  That is why it was so important for Virgil to transform the  character of Homer's hero into the new sort of hero he had in mind.  During  Virgil's lifetime (70-19 B.C.), Octavius Caesar defeated Marcus Antonius at  the battle of Actium in 31 B.C., becoming the unrivaledsource of power and  taking the title &quot;Augustus&quot; to signify the importance of his  position.  One way to read The Aeneid is to say that Aeneas is an idealized  version of Augustus; the battle of Actium is depicted at the center of  Aeneas's shield, even if Aeneas does not know what that depiction  signifies.<br />The Aeneid, however is far more than flattery.  Just as Aeneas  has to lose Troy in order to establish Rome, so he loses something in  victory, when he defeats Turnus in Book 12.  The victory is the culmination  of his quest in Italy and it is necessary for his destiny to be realized.   It also anticipates the military success of Rome in Virgil's own day.  But  it also involves terrible loss which tinges the victory with tragedy.  We  are reminded of our own mortality everywhere in this story.  If Rome is  built on an awareness of this mortal insight, as Virgil seems to suggest,  its greatness is justified and it may perhaps endure.	2000-09-19
2278345:US	50718004	R21BH55ZNJLIUM	0156283158	552233833	Ellis Island and Other Stories	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Brilliant Beautiful Stories	My first encounter with Mark Helprin was his long novel, Winter's Tale.  I  thought it was perfect:  glorious and mysterious, realistic and magical,  funny and fantastic and wondrous and sad.  It was almost too much of a good  thing; sort of like chocolate decadence topped with mocha ice-cream and  drenched in hot fudge sauce.<br />The stories in Ellis Island and Other  Stories offer the same enticing overdose of goodness but in smaller doses.   Lest you be thrown off by the cover or the title, these stories are  definitely not history or even historical fiction.  They are not  exclusively about immigrants, Europe or the War, although threads of these  subjects do run through them.<br />The title story, Ellis Island is the  longest and the last.  It is about the Ellis Island and immigration, of  course, but it is also fantastic fantasy complete with a wonderful machine  that melts the snow from the streets supported only by its own jets of  fire, the Saromsker Rabbi and his glorious sermon on bees, the lovely Hava,  and Elise, whose hair is nothing less than a pillar of fire.  Of the eleven  stories, Ellis Island comes closest to Winter's Tale in its spirit of  fantasy, although A Vermont Winter best describes the perfection of a deep  Northeastern snow.  As in Winter's Tale, in Ellis Island, Helprin is not  averse to destroying beautiful things for the sake of a larger good, even  if the logic of his narrative does not demand that he do so.  But that, you  see, is Helprin; for him death is just another part of art.<br />All of these  stories are brilliant and all of them are beautiful.  In The  Schreuderspitze, a photographer deals with tragedy in the luminous beauty  of the Alps; in Letters from the Samantha, questions of humanity and guilt  are dealt with on an iron-hulled sailing ship in 1879; in Martin Bayer, we  get to know a small boy on the eve of war; in North Light and A Room of  Frail Dancers, we glimpse the devastating effects of battle on soldiers.   LaVolpaia is wonderful, wise and witty and Tamar is nothing if not lovely  in the extreme.  White Gardens and Palais de Justice defy any sort of  description; you simply must read them and then savor them  yourself.<br />Anyone who has read any of Helprin's other works knows he  certainly has a way with words.  Here are words from the end of Tamar that  not only describe the story's beautiful seventeen year old protagonist, but  serve to sum up this volume as a whole:  Perhaps things are most beautiful  when they are not quite real; when you look upon a scene as an outsider;  and come to possess it in its entirety and forever; when you live in the  present with the lucidity and feeling of memory; when for want of  connection, the world deepens and becomes art.<br />These stories are nothing  if they are not art.	2000-09-19
2278503:US	50718004	R1ZTUAWPR1B5Q9	0679772871	380732504	The Magic Mountain	Books	5	24	24	N	N	A Higher Sanity and Health	This great and literate novel is the tale of Hans Castorp, that &quot;delicate child of life&quot; whom we first meet at the age of  twenty-three, ambivalently embarking on a career as a ship-building  engineer in his home city of Hamburg, Germany.  Before beginning his  professional work, however, Hans journeys on what is intended to be a  vacation and a pro forma visit to see his tubercular cousin, Joachim  Ziemssen, at a sanatorium in the alpine town of Davos, Switzerland.  As the  train continues on its course through the mountain scenery, Hans and the  reader become aware that this is no ordinary journey.  The impressionable  Hans is transported away from the life and obligations he has known, to the  rarefied mountain air and insular community of the sanatorium.<br />At first  uneasy, Hans soon becomes fascinated with, and drawn to, the routine  established for the &quot;consumptives&quot; and to the social scene which  flourishes there.  Ordinary life seems increasingly unreal to him; his  perceptions are heightened and he becomes aware of his physical, spiritual  and emotional vulnerability, as well as his own sexuality.  He is greatly  attracted to one of the patients, a married woman of Slavic background,  Madame Claudia Chauchat.  She reminds him of a schoolboy to whom he had  been strangely attracted as a child.  The turmoil brought on by this  romantic obsession seems even to be reflected in Hans' physical state,  which becomes increasingly unstable and feverish.<br />Events take an  unexpected turn and, as his intended three-week stay draws to a close, Hans  is compelled to remain at the sanitorium, a situation for which he is  almost grateful as he can now remain close to Madame Chauchat as well as  engage in the profound discussions about illness, life, time, death,  religion, love and world views initiated by yet another patient, Herr  Settembrini.<br />Settembrini is an Italian man of letters and a humanist who  believes that reason and the intellect must, and will, prevail, in daily  life as well as in world affairs.  He is contemptuous of the foolish  flirtations and empty talk in which most of the sanitorium inhabitants  indulge and warns Hans repeatedly of the dangers inherent in cutting off  all ties to real life and responsibility.  Hans, however, has ideas of his  own.<br />This depiction of sanitorium life was triggered by Mann's own  experience when his wife was confined for several months.  he began writing  The Magic Mountain in 1912, in a humorous vein.  His work was interrupted  by WWI and, subsequently, the book took him twelve years to complete.  The  intervening events in Mann's life led him to a major examination of human  nature, European history and politics and to ponder the great questions  surrounding life and death.  (The chapter entitled, Snow, contains a  stunningly described flirtation with death.)<br />In this dense and sometimes  difficult, though always rewarding, book, Mann's descriptions of  institutional life are of interest in themselves; allusions to the dark and  irrational forces that lurk within the human psyche at a time when  psychoanalysis was just beginning are of interest; considerations of the  human condition and of the human spirit make worthwhile reading for any  thoughtful person, and for anyone entering a profession centered on  illness.  In the informative afterword written retrospectively, Mann states  that &quot;what (Hans) came to understand is that one must go through the  deep experience of sickness and death to arrive at a higher sanity and  health...&quot;	2000-09-19
2278533:US	50718004	R3GYS2IZSHNAHC	0192839357	97762191	Vita Nuova (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	37	39	N	N	That Which Has Never Been Written of Any Woman	La Vita Nuova (c. 1293; The New Life) is the first of two collections of verse that Dante made in his lifetime, the other being the Convivio.  Each  is a prosimetrum, a work composed of verse and prose.  In each case the  prose is a device for binding together poems composed over approximately a  ten-year period.  The Vita Nuova brought together Dante's poetic efforts  from before 1283 to about 1292-93; the Convivio, a bulkier and more  ambitious work, contains Dante's most important poetic compositions from  just prior to 1294 to the time of La Divina Commedia.<br />The Vita Nuova,  which Dante called his libello, or little book, is a remarkable work.  It  contains 42 brief chapters with commentaries on 25 sonnets, one ballata,  and four canzoni; a fifth canzoni is left dramatically interrupted by the  death of Beatrice (perhaps Bice Portinari, a woman Dante met and fell in  love with in 1274 but who died in 1290).  In Beatrice, Dante created one of  the most celebrated women in all of literature.  In keeping with the  changing directions of Dante's thoughts and career, Beatrice underwent  enormous changes in his hands--sanctified in the Vita Nuova, demoted in the  canzoni (poems) presented again in the Convivio, only to be returned with  more profound comprehension in La Divina Commedia as the woman credited  with having led Dante away from the &quot;vulgar herd&quot; to  Paradise.<br />The prose commentary provides the frame story, which does not  emerge from the poems themselves (it is, of course, conceivable that some  were actually written for occasions other than those alleged).  The story,  however, is simple enough and tells of Dante's first sight of Beatrice when  both were nine years of age, her salutation when they were eighteen,  Dante's expedients to conceal his love for her, the crisis experienced when  Beatrice withholds her greeting, Dante's anguish that she is making light  of him, his determination to rise above the anguish and sing only of his  lady's virtues, anticipations of her death in that of a young friend, the  death of Beatrice's father, and Dante's own premonitory dream, and finally,  the death of Beatrice, Dante's mourning, the temptation of the sympathetic  donna gentile (a young woman who temporarily replaces Beatrice), Beatrice's  final triunph and apotheosis, and, in the last chapter, Dante's  determination to write at some later time about Beatrice, &quot;that which  has never been written of any woman.&quot;<br />Yet, with all of this  apparently autobiographical purpose, the Vita Nuova is strangely  impersonal.  The circumstances it sets down are markedly devoid of any  historical facts or descriptive detail (thus making it pointless to engage  in debate as to the exact historical identity of Beatrice).  The language  of the commentary also adheres to a high level of generality.  Names are  rarely used...Cavalcanti is referred to three times as Dante's &quot;best  friend,&quot; Dante's sister is referred to as &quot;she who was joined to  me by the closest proximity of blood.&quot;  On the one hand, Dante  suggests the most significant stages of emotional experience, but on the  other, he seem to distance his descriptions from strong emotional  reactions.  The larger structure in which Dante arranged poems written over  a ten-year period and the generality of his poetic language are indications  of his early and abiding ambition to go beyond the practices of the local  poets.<br />The Italian of the Vita Nuova is Dante's own gorgeous Tuscan  dialect, a limpid, ethereal and luminous Italian that seems as though it  could have been written yesterday.  In chapter XXX of the Vita Nuova, Dante  states that it was through Cavalcanti that he wrote his first book in  Italian rather than in Latin.  In fact, Dante dedicated the Vita Nuova to  Cavalcanti--to his best friend (primo amico).<br />Anyone who can, should  definitely read this beautiful book in its original Italian, but those who  cannot can still enjoy the beauty of Dante in a good translation.  The book  isn't as difficult or intimidating as La Divina Commedia and it makes a  beautiful introduction to those who love Dante but just want to enjoy a  little less of him in the beginning.	2000-09-19
2278801:US	50718004	RKHQYDG8LPPCV	0380727331	939633503	Memoir from Antproof Case	Books	4	12	13	N	N	No Coffee Please	Mark Helprin has the uncanny ability to move with power and grace through  the entire range of reality, both human and divine.  His previous works,  the majestic A Soldier of the Great War and the visionary Winter's Tale  show this most aptly.  Even more amazing is Helprin's ability to juxtapose  the holy and the profane, not as literary device, but as something directly  perceived.<br />Memoir From Antproof Case, while not the masterpiece of A  Soldier of the Great War or the genius of Winter's Tale, is still artistry  and fun of the highest order.  The book's protagonist introduces himself in  the opening sentence with a parody of Moby Dick:  Call me Oscar  Progresso.<br />Oscar Progresso is, in fact, the pseudonym of an eighty year  old American, hiding in the Amazonian jungles of Brazil and consigning his  memoirs to an antproof case so that his wife's young son (conceived with  another man but loved by Progresso) will someday be able to read his  &quot;father's&quot; complete history as well as having a chance at finding  the millions in gold bullion that Oscar stole from an immortal investment  banking firm in New York years earlier, thus forcing him into hiding in  Brazil.<br />Although Progresso is now living in one of the world's premiere  coffee-growing regions, he ironically possesses a fanatical and  pathological loathing for coffee...anything.  Moreover, he blames any  number of physical, emotional and spiritual degradations in the world  around him on the evils of caffeine.  Cruelly, he says, &quot;every child  in the Western World is pressured to accept this drug.&quot;  And, since  Progresso has not been able to convince even one person to give up what he  considers to be one of the world's greatest vices, he has come to consider  the addiction to coffee to be stronger and more powerful than all the  world's religions, than love, and even &quot;perhaps stronger than the  human soul itself.&quot;  Progresso in exile, a person who is nauseated by  eventhe smell of brewing coffee, is amusing, to be sure, but he is  definitely not a happy man.<br />Progresso, though, has lived a wonderful life  and he knows it.  His early childhood on a farm in the Hudson Valley was  magical; he lived through physical and spiritual adventures as a fighter  pilot in WWII; he married a billionairess, with whom he was immensely  happy...until she, herself, succumbed to the coffee habit.  As a highly  successful, though somewhat eccentric, investment banker, Progresso romps  through exotic episodes that are woven into the story in meandering folds  that loop back on one another and are nothing if they are not  spirited.<br />The one blot in Progresso's seemingly carefree existence was a  murder to which he, himself, holds the clue.  Although he finds no  salvation in revenge, Progresso does manage to take it when he snaps a bank  president's neck.<br />Childhood and children play an important role in this  Helprin tale, not only Progresso's &quot;son,&quot; Funio, and the millions  of children hooked on caffeine, but the spiritual energy of children and of  childhood, which is often invoked in characteristically original  scenes.<br />When Progresso is sent by his bank to greet the Pope, Helprin  wastes no time on more moral subjects that preoccupy lesser authors.   Instead, Progresso immediately forms a bond with the pontiff because, as he  puts it, he can see directly into his soul.  After a simple dinner  together, Progresso asks the Pope about his parents and the pontiff is  moved:  &quot;In all these years, no one has ever asked me about my father  and my mother, and yet I think of them every day.  Why did you ask?&quot;   Progresso's answer is simple, brilliant and thoroughly Helprin:  &quot;God  puts more of Himself in the love of parent and child than in anything else,  including all the wonders of nature.  It is the prime analogy, the foremost  revelation, the shield of His presence upon earth. As you don't have your  own children, you must refer to that holy relation in memories dredged deep  with great love.&quot;<br />These words carry even greater weight when we  consider that Progresso is a man who could be described as a wag or an  eccentric; a man in whom good and evil, sanity and madness are deeply and  irrevocably intertwined, but who is always uplifted by the sheer joy of  simply being alive.<br />Helprin's wizardry as a storyteller is proven again  in this book by his ability to maintain suspense until the very last page.   He takes many chances along the way, because, since it is Progresso who is  telling the tale, we know he survived the threats described during the  telling.  Yet Helprin is so masterful that you will still find yourself  wondering how, or even if, Progresso will manage to handle the bandits and  the bullets, the storms and the failures.  Most lesser authors couldn't  keep a reader that enthralled if they were telling the story in  chronological order; that Helprin manages to do so when we already know the  outcome is nothing less than sheer magic.<br />There is magic, too, in  Helprin's variety and steadiness of vision.  He seems to know all there is  to know about warfare, finance, engineering, history and several other  fields.  Yet his writing becomes tender and lyrical when Progresso relates  his childhood memories of the Hudson Valley and later, New York  City.<br />After spending time with a Helprin novel, the reader comes to  believe that life really does contain all the magic the heart intuits:   tragedy, pain and horror, but also glory and love beyond all expression.	2000-09-19
2278968:US	50718004	R3GQ7ISK3YXA6T	0553273914	934590882	The House of the Spirits	Books	5	73	74	N	N	Luminous and Spellbinding	The House of the Spirits, Isabel Allende's luminous saga of the Trueba  family, as seen through the eyes of the women, is more than a wonderful  book; it is an ode to the courageous, compassionate and forgiving spirits  that all people are capable of becoming.  Even after witnessing the horrors  of Chilean military oppression, Allende dared to write a novel that denies  a basic pessimistic view of humans and instead reveals mankind's capacity  to endure suffering and self-transformation for the sake of life, love and  justice.<br />In The House of the Spirits, Allende shows us that the cruelest  outbursts of evil and violence of which man is capable are committed during  civil war:  genocides, mass murders, concentration camps.  Man is  definitely mankind's greatest enemy.  It is truly horrifying to think that  the sufferings of Jaime Trueba could be supported by authentic testimony:   &quot;They tied their hands and feet with barbed wire and threw them on  their faces in the stalls.  There Jaime and the others spent two days  without food or water, rotting in their own excrement, blood and fear,  until they were all driven by truck to an area near the airport.  In an  empty lot they were shot on the ground because they could no longer stand,  and then their bodies were dynamited.&quot;<br />Jaime is just one among many  characters who suffers horribly under the military oppression portrayed in  The House of the Spirits.  Yet, Allende courageously dares to offer hope  that reconciliation is possible and that people are capable of much more  noble actions and emotions.<br />In this book, Allende seems to be telling us  that evil is not a simple thing and that violent behavior is a complex act.   She also portrays every act as having a cause, whether known or unknown.   Alba, one of the main characters, is able to understand why Colonel Garcia,  hating her so strongly, sets out to destroy, slowly and painfully, both her  life and her spirit.  Ironically, Alba is Colonel Garcia's own cousin,  through both her grandfather and her father.<br />A luminous character, Alba,  through an understanding of not only her own position in time and place,  but also through an understanding of her greatest enemy and torturer,  reconciles herself with life and chooses to forgive and &quot;break that  terrible chain&quot; of hatred.  Instead of hating, this extraordinary  woman focuses her life and her love on the one man in her life, the  guerilla leader Miguel, and her unborn daughter.<br />Allende's novel captures  Alba's spirit of reconciliation in her name, which means, in Spanish,  &quot;dawn.&quot;  Alba is, indeed, the embodiment of hope as she proves  that people are not bound to be evil.  Alba, herself, even suggests that  that her enemy's hatred had a definite cause and that she, or anyone else,  could prevent further malicious acts and emotions when she says, &quot;And  now I seek my hatred and cannot seem to find it.  I feel its flame going  out as I come to understand the existence of Colonel Garcia and the others  like him...It would be very difficult for me to avenge all those who should  be avenged, because my revenge would be just another part of the same  inexorable rite.  I have to break that terrible chain.&quot;<br />Allende has  told us that she writes to bring about necessary changes in Latin America  of which the most important are &quot;real revolutions of spirit, of  values, of life.&quot;  She says that the attitudes and beliefs of people's  minds can shape the destiny of multitudes that so far have been living in  only pessimism and despair. No one was born good or bad, says this book,  and reality is what people believe it to be.<br />This absence of a  judgemental tone may be partially explained by the fact that the military  is an integral part of the people.  Soldiers came from the families whose  members were persecuted by these very same men.  The characters of Esteban  Trueba and his son, Jaime depict the sharpcontrast between good and  evil.<br />This is a book that will haunt you with its swirling romanticism,  its superbly crafted interweaving of close family observation and political  raison d'etre.  Allende is a writer so graceful and elegant that she  manages to break our hearts and fill us with joy at the same time.<br />Even  after witnessing the horror that people are capable of committing, Allende  refuses to despair.  By exploring the causes of both the evil and loving  actions of the characters in The House of the Spirits, Allende reveals the  immense power for change that lies in our own spirits as long as we believe  that we can make our world and ourselves a better place.	2000-09-19
2281140:US	50718004	RD1TL2PHPI4YZ	0679761047	987818425	Snow Country	Books	5	121	127	N	N	Images and Nuances	Snow Country, probably the most famous of Yasunari Kawabata's classical  Japanese novels, is the story of a love affair doomed from the very  start.<br />Set on the snowy, mountainous slopes of Western Japan, Snow  Country tells the story of Komako, a hot springs geisha and Shimamura, a  wealthy Tokyo dilettante who works as an expert on occidental ballet.  The  focus of the novel is on three visits to Komako from Shimamura and their  changing relationship as well as Yoko, a maid at the inn where Shimamura  chooses to stay while in the snow country.  Each of these three characters  is searching for love, yet finds himself (or herself) incapable of fully  experiencing it.<br />Throughout Snow Country, Kawabata utilizes the changing  of the seasons as a metaphor for the changing relationship between Komako  and Shimamura.  Meeting in the spring, Shimamura sees Komako as an  &quot;amateur,&quot; a mere girl, and feels the need to protect her, much  as one would protect a growing seedling.  The relationship thus begins in  genuine friendship and under the protection of Shimamura, Komako grows and  matures.<br />Shimamura's second visit takes place in the fall and Komako, who  has matured into a woman, finds that her relationship with Shimamura has  changed; she no longer views him as her protector and finds that the  friendship the two once shared has now become a struggling romance.  Komako, who emotionally, has moved beyond the superficial Shimamura, now  views him with a mixture of passion and contempt.<br />Winter brings yet  another change to this enigmatic relationship as Komako and Shimamura begin  to argue and grow further and further apart.  Shimamura finds himself  attracted to Yoko, but it is an attraction that can only end in tragedy for  all concerned.  Although the ending of the novel may be confusing for some,  it does effectively sever any ties that Komako and Shimamura may have  had.<br />Although lyrically beautiful, the novel is almost painful to readas  the characters struggle to keep their dignity intact in the face of their  disintegrating relationship.  Kawabata's writing is gorgeous and poetic and  the book embodies the juxtaposition of his signature themes of beauty and  sorrow.  The narrative is minimal, as it should be, emphasizing the three  characters' inability to love and live life to the fullest.<br />Kawabata  uses subtle, yet rich, imagery instead of a dense and complex narrative.  &quot;...insects smaller than moths gathered on the thick white powder of  her neck.  Some of them died there as Shimamura watched.&quot;  Kawabata  wisely gives us only the beautiful essentials, existing largely in the  conversations of the characters.  The haiku-like images that make up their  surroundings also lends insight into their character.  This is an novel of  nuance and atmosphere, of bare essentials and hidden meaning, of spaces and  silences and hanging threads.<br />Delineating the effects of desire on a man  and loneliness on a woman, Snow Country is ultimately a book about love and  the loss of love.  Although bare and skeletal in some respects, it is still  a classical story that burns with the fire of passion and then grows as  cold as the snowy climate in which it is set.	2000-09-16
2281276:US	50718004	R307DM1YSW9DRK	0452265169	858260451	A Wild Sheep Chase: A Novel (Contemporary Fiction, Plume)	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Absalom Absalom Meets Mothra	Haruki Murakami is modern-day Japan's most popular novelist.  Both a  literary success and a commercial success, Murakami has been the recipient  of the Noma Literary Award for New Writers (A Wild Sheep Chase) and the  Tanazaki Prize (for The Hard-Boiled Wonderland and The End of the  World).<br />Murakami's fiction shares almost nothing in common with more  classical Japanese authors like Kawabata, Mishima and Tanazaki, and early  reviews compared his work to that of Raymond Carver, Thomas Pynchon,  Raymond Chandler and Thomas Berger.  Comparisons, however, are always  unfair.  Murakami is most definitely an original.  The worlds he creates  are his and his alone, and although he invites us to visit for awhile, only  he can truly inhabit them.<br />Embracing Murakami's signature themes of  isolation and alienation, A Wild Sheep Chase is part detective thriller,  part allegory, part fantasy, and part post-modern send-up.  It is  thoroughly Western in both its outlook and writing style and thoroughly  original by any standard.<br />Murakami, who is more likely to speak of the  Beatles (a book he titled Norwegian Wood remains his best seller in Japan)  and Heineken than of kabuki and sushi, takes us on a wild-and-woolly roller  coaster ride in A Wild Sheep Chase that often modulates from deadpan  minimalism to a kind of fantastic fantasy world reminiscent of magical  realism wherein sheep inhabit men's souls, a woman possess ears so  beguilingly beautiful that they must be perpetually covered and old friends  often return as ghosts for no other reason than to share a beer and a  chat.<br />A Wild Sheep Chase features a signature Murakami protagonist:  a  nameless, aimless, ordinary man, just about thirty and living an equally  aimless, ordinary life in an essentially nonexistent Tokyo.  In other  words, &quot;Everyman.&quot;  It is this talent of Murakami's to capture  the everyday individual innuendo so easily and fully that endears him to  the hearts and minds of both Japanese and Westerners alike.  In fact, a  signature Murakami protagonist could well be Charlie Brown all grown up--a  seemingly ordinary man caught up in extraordinary problems and one for whom  nothing ever goes right; the personification of Murphy's Law in the  extreme.<br />This particular novel's protagonist has his &quot;sort of&quot;  life interrupted with the unexpected arrival of something as seemingly  innocent, innocuous and mundane as an advertising photo of a field of  sheep, sent to him by his old friend, &quot;the Rat.&quot;<br />When the  narrator makes the mistake of printing the photo in a newsletter, he then  draws the unwanted attention of a singularly sinister stranger currently in  the employ of &quot;the Boss,&quot; a powerful political and financial  magnate who is now lying near death and whose extraordinary avocational  abilities are somehow derived from the very same sheep pictured in the  mysterious photo.<br />Blackmailed into procuring the definitely desired  sheep, the nameless narrator, along with his girlfriend (she of the covered  ears), embarks upon a parody of adventure of near mythic proportion that  finds its climactic end in a stormy sea of surprises on the remote island  of Hokkaido.<br />Although not as densely-layered as The Wind-Up Bird  Chronicle, (to date, Murakami's masterpiece), A Wild Sheep Chase is  nonetheless filled with the verbal agility, antics and double entrendres  for which Murakami is so well-known.  It is, after all, Murakami's  narrator, himself, who says, &quot;sure we're tossing out fluff, but tell  me, where does anyone deal in words with substance?&quot;<br />The answer, of  course, is:  right here.  Murakami does.  Although A Wild Sheep Chase may,  at first, seem almost as inconsequential as the latest detective thriller  in a long string of detective thrillers, the weight of this book, as with  all of Murakami's works, eventually lands on the reader like a ton  of...sheep.	2000-09-16
2281477:US	50718004	RB2FZO8P6ZQGN	0374508127	113519328	Gertrude	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Elegant and Beautiful	This elegant and beautiful story is one of Hermann Hesse's very early  novellas and is told in a simple, first-person narrator style.<br />It is the  story of a man possessed by two passions:  music and love.  In the  uncomplicated and lovely language that marks all of his works, Hesse  describes with wonderful accuracy the heights and depths of romantic love  and the bonds of true friendship.  He falls a little short, in this book,  at giving us a truly emotional look at the protagonist's passion for his  music.  It is in this area that the character of Kuhn, as well as that of  Muoth, rings just a little false.<br />The pivotal character of Gertrude is  beautifully drawn, but she is introduced far too late in the story for the  reader to develop any sort of emotional bond with either her or her  dilemma, a mistake Hesse did not repeat in his later works.<br />Readers who  are familiar with the works of Hesse will recognize the early development  of his themes of isolation and uniqueness in Gertrude in the character of  Kuhn.<br />Like all of Hesse's works, this book is understated and restrained,  yet full of emotion.  The prose often feels as though there are  undercurrents just about to break through the surface.  Hesse, though,  writes with his usual restraint and, although the book is one of obsession  and tragedy, the author completely resists the temptation to let the story  desolve into melodrama.<br />Gertrude is not Hesse's very best work, but it is  certainly a lovely one and one that anyone interested in Hermann Hesse  cannot afford to miss.	2000-09-16
2281542:US	50718004	R33YH4WXH3U9B9	0192818376	449623847	Dead Souls: A Poem (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Are We Not All Chichikovs	Dead Souls, the most ambitious of all Gogol's works, dates back as far as  1835 and preoccupied its author until the publication of its first volume  in 1842.<br />Documentation that Gogol was working on Dead Souls comes in a  letter to Pushkin, whom Gogol greatly admired, dated 7 October 1836.  In  this letter, Gogol informs Pushkin that, &quot;I have begun to write Dead  Souls.  The plot has stretched out into a very long novel, and it will, I  think, be extremely amusing.  But now I've stopped it on the third chapter.   I'm hunting for a good slanderer with whom one can become intimate.  I  want to show all Russia--at least from one side--in this novel.&quot;  This  is the first indication that Gogol was involved with something longer than  his usual short stories, or as is the case with Taras Bulba, a  novella.<br />Only the first part of Dead Souls was actually completed by  Gogol.  The second part (some chapters of which are published with the  first) is a recreation of what Gogol might have done with the continuation  of his work; he actually burned the second part only nine days before his  death.<br />Dead Souls was originally published as The Adventures of Chichikov  since religious censors at the time objected to the phrase &quot;dead  souls&quot; as being theologically contradictory.<br />As Dead Souls opens,  Pavel Ivanovich Chichikov is traveling through the Russian countryside on  business.  He is, however, my no means, an idle wanderer.<br />The situation  from which Dead Souls develops is based upon a scheme which was  theoretically possible in the Russia of Gogol's time.  The government had a  policy of loaning money to landowners, however, lands owned were measured,  not in acres, or hectares, but by the number of &quot;souls,&quot; i.e.,  serfs, residing on them.  The government would accept the serfs as  collateral for a loan to the owner.<br />An individual possessed the number of  &quot;souls&quot; recorded in the most recent census, with a new census  being taken every ten years.  In Dead Souls, Chichikov schemes to buy from  the serf holders a number of &quot;dead souls&quot; who had, indeed, died,  but were still counted as living until the next census.  Once Chichikov had  enough of these souls, he intended to apply for a loan and buy an actual  country estate.<br />Chichikov's business dealings with the landowners, like  every facet of the novel, serves as a measuring stick for his own  observations of Russian life.  No two business dealings are alike, however.   One of Gogol's greatest artistic achievements is that a recurring topic or  theme never becomes predictable or boring.  Each business transaction is  different and impossible to predict:  with the character Manilov, it is  easy; with Sobakievich, it is tough going; with Nozdryov, the  quintessential Russian peasant, impossible.<br />Dead Souls is told by a  narrator who is at times omniscient and at other times, not.  The overall  tone of the book is one of both humor and irony, although Gogol does become  increasingly melancholic and lyrical near the end.  <br />While the narrator  outwardly shows the characters and their actions great respect, he still  manages to illustrate their folly, their coarseness and, at times, their  ugliness.  <br />Gogol also revealed much about the characters in their names.   This may or may not be apparent to the reader, depending on which  translation he is reading, but the book can be enjoyed without knowing the  irony behind Gogol's play on names.<br />A continuing leitmotif in Dead Souls  is that of marriage.  We see in the various landowners their attitudes  towards marriage and family life, none of which is particularly  complimentary, although it is, at times, hilariously funny.  Even  Chichikov, himself, is a contented middle-aged bachelor.  &quot;What makes  women so repulsive?&quot; he, at one point, asks the world at large.  Yet,  even this contented bachelor, as we soon see, is not immune to thecharms  of a pretty face.<br />Gogol introduces five landowners in the novel's first  seven chapters, then moves away from the countryside back to town where  Chichikov now plans to register the &quot;deeds&quot; he has purchased.   His descriptions in this part of the novel are reminiscent of the  situations and characters in The Overcoat and The Inspector General.<br />An  unexpected, but logical twist, occurs at the end of volume one in  Chichikov's wild troika ride, with bells tinkling, signifying the  glorification of Russia's own fast ride in history.<br />Dead Souls is the  epitome of what Gogol did best.  It introduces a multitude of characters,  varied settings, multitudinous detail and a scope grand enough to allow  this amazing and very funny writer to elaborate on the very heart of  Russian life to his own soul's content.	2000-09-16
2281582:US	50718004	R1UVRAGX1UN3W5	0345361792	438809520	A Prayer for Owen Meany	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Born To Be Martyred	&quot;Owen gave me more than he ever took from me...What did he ever say  that wasn't right?&quot;  Johnny Wheelwright<br />On a summer's day in 1953,  eleven-year-old Owen Meany, the diminutive social outcast with the squeaky,  high-pitched voice, hits a foul ball in a Little League game (the only ball  he's ever hit, by the way), and instantly kills his best friend's mother.   Owen, who does not believe in accidents, knows that this death was God's  will and that, somehow, he is destined to live his own life as an  instrument of the Almighty.  What happens to Owen, and his best friend,  Johnny Wheelwright, in the years to come, is both extraordinarily uplifting  and extraordinarily terrifying.<br />Despite the death of Johnny's beloved  mother, he and Owen share a lifelong friendship that is sealed when Owen  resorts to extraordinary means to keep Johnny out of the Vietnam war and  reaches its apotheosis when Johnny is present at the death Owen has seen  prefigured in a vision at a Christmas pageant.<br />Following Owen and Johnny  through childhood, high school and college, the spookily prescient Owen  Meany manages to intimidate children and adults alike with both his visions  and his faith.<br />The novel's central question centers on &quot;why Johnny  is a Christian because of Owen Meany,&quot; but there are other mysteries  to unravel that are just as interesting, if not more so, such as, &quot;who  is Johnny's father?&quot;<br />The Christian theme is obviously central to A  Prayer for Owen Meany, yet Irving is unclear about how he wishes it to be  interpreted.  Although the book is heavily steeped in the ritual and  practice of mainline Protestantism, it conveys a sense of religiosity  rather than religion, the miraculous rather than the spiritual.  Perhaps  its religious message is that it simply doesn't have one...outside of Owen,  himself, that is.<br />Those who are familiar with John Irving's work will  instantly recognize his signature:  the New England prep school community,  the unknown father of the first-person narrator (a la Garp), the rough  comedy, the perversity, the brilliant set pieces.<br />Despite the somewhat  overworked theme (a boy killing or injuring his best friend's  mother...think of Robertson Davies and Nancy Willard), the story, itself,  is wonderful, miraculous, even.  Readers will be pulled into it by the  sheer power of Owen and Johnny's friendship and the desire to see at least  some resolution to Johnny's lifelong mysteries.<br />But like most of Irving's  novels, A Prayer for Owen Meany cannot decide just what to be:  a folksy  Bildungsroman, a Christian/Freudian allegory or an commentary on the sad  state of American politics.<br />Unfortunately, Irving, always outspoken,  leans a little too heavily on the political side in this book, and his  venomous polemic, which is neither persuasive nor well-integrated,  denigrates the near mythic-story of the captivating and heartbreaking Owen  Meany.<br />The book is written as a memoir, told by Johnny, and, as such, it  contains many jumps in time.  This is something that Irving handles well  and we are never disoriented or confused as to time and place.<br />Irving's  prose, which is so good it is often underestimated even by his most ardent  admirers, is smooth as silk in this novel, and he once again successfully  combines comedy with tragedy, pathos with quiet humor.<br />His classical  style is present and perfect, as always, but in this book, Irving is too  blatant with both foreshadowing and symbolism.  Irving doesn't seem to  trust his readers enough; he doesn't seem to realize that...we will get it.   We don't need to be, nor want to be, hit over the heads.  In a story as  good as this one, a lighter touch would have been a delight.<br />The climax  is the best thing about this book.  It is not only convincing and  &quot;just right,&quot; it is absolute sheer perfection.  It pulls  everything else about the story together and the scenes leading up to it  are extremely well-written.  The thinking behind those scenes, however,  might just be a little too preppy, a little too sure of itself.<br />As good  as this book is, and it is excellent, it still lacks the power, vision and  humor of The World According to Garp, Irving's masterpiece.  Owen Meany,  however, is not Garp, he is himself, and his story is uniquely his own, as  it should be.<br />A Prayer for Owen Meany is, in the end, ambitious,  intelligent, stunning and darkly comic.  With this book, John Irving joins  the company of other first-class writers of boy's stories...Mark Twain,  Booth Tarkington and J.D. Salinger.  And that is not bad company in which  to find oneself.	2000-09-16
2281719:US	50718004	RQG7B4SF3AWRG	0679743464	683839369	Hard-Boiled Wonderland and the End of the World: A Novel (Vintage International)	Books	5	20	24	N	N	A Wild Ride To The Edge Of Consciousness	In this novel, Haruki Murakami, Japan's bestselling author, creates two  seemingly isolated and unrelated universes and then moves back and forth  between them with an flawless abruptness that leaves the reader thoroughly  engrossed and gasping for air.<br />With the turn of the first page, the  reader is confronted with a worn and tattered map of a rural town  surrounded by a thick wall much like the medieval towns of Europe.  This  map contrasts sharply with the opening of the first chapter, in which the  protagonist is descending in an elevator reflecting on the sterile,  efficient and advanced settings of modern society.<br />The world Murakami  introduces in Chapter One is not really modern-day Tokyo, although it is  certainly modeled after that city.  Computers and information figure  heavily in this book and the novel's protagonist is an employee of System  (the good guys), an obscure agency whose purpose is to prevent critical  information from falling into the devilish hands of the sinister Factory.   The protagonist himself, is a Calcutec, a human encryption device who  shuffles data in his mind so that Factory's agents, the Semiotecs, will  find it indecipherable.  A routine assignment with an eccentric professor,  however, sends Calcutec on a whirlwind of a journey that will eventually  explore the very depths of his consciousness.<br />The second world, which we  first encounter in Chapter Two, is the small walled town depicted on the  worn and tattered map.  Here, in this idyllic place, unicorns roam in  fields, inhabitants are separated from their shadows, and everyone lives  without memory or mind.  Each citizen is immortal and each has a specific  job which he carries out for eternity.  Plunged into this world of  confusion, the protagonist is told that he is now the Dreamreader and it is  now his job to place his hands on the skulls of dead unicorns and allow the  energy inside of them to dissipate between his fingers.<br />Murakami has  divided his book into forty chapters, twenty for each universe, and he  alternates between them.  The styles he uses to tell the tales of each  world are quite different.  When in the modern world of pseudo-Tokyo,  Murakami uses the past tense and lingers on the details.  The story of the  walled town, however, is told in the present tense and detail is eschewed  for  a hazy, diffuse atmosphere, as if the protagonist is suffering from  both amnesia and poor eyesight.  Fitting, when one considers that he is  inhabiting a world where no one has the ability to even think.<br />As this  wildly original novel unfolds, we begin to feel that the two protagonists  are two halves of the same person and both worlds may be nothing more than  different perceptions of the same reality.  At some point, we think, these  two disparate worlds must collide.  But with Murakami, one never knows.   Until the end, that is.<br />As with Murakami's other novels and stories,  Hard-Boiled Wonderland and The End of the World, has a distinctly Western  feel about it.  The characters discuss American and European literature,  Hollywood and rock music.<br />Murakami, himself, said that &quot;most  Japanese novelists are addicted to the beauty of the language.  I'd like to  change that...Language is a kind of tool, an instrument to  communicate.&quot;  Murakami has certainly mastered the ability to  communicate and he definitely brings something new to Japanese literature.   His first-person perspective, his screenplay-style dialogue and his  extensive use of colloquial speech all contrive to transport the reader  into the world of the protagonist.<br />Unlike more traditional authors such  as Mishima and Kawabata, Murakami uses language informally, not to impress  with the beauty or lyricism of his words but to communicate a sense of the  protagonist to the reader.  As with other Murakami novels, this book dwells  on the author's signature themes of alienation and overwhelming despair  that is so often apart of our impersonal, overcrowded, modern-day  society.<br />Murakami's novels are literature of the highest order, although  they encompass such outlandish plots that their classification as  literature might be overlooked.  His themes however, always touch on the  most existential problems facing society today.  Therein lies Murakami's  genius, or at least a part of it.  He brings a voice to the voiceless  individual, the one who feels in danger of being swallowed alive by the  impersonal and often overwhelming reach of the information age.  His  protagonists, though sometimes nameless and sometimes faceless, always  manage to shout into the deaf ear of the crazy, mixed-up postmodern world.   And, who knows?  With Murakami around, we might just work all the craziness  out some day.	2000-09-16
2281910:US	50718004	R11C3EGB75QJZS	0151003653	370942280	The Stones Cry Out	Books	5	21	24	N	N	Beyond Tragedy	This profoundly beautiful, horrifying and seamless novella begins in the  darkness of an island cave at the end of World War II and ends fewer than  200 pages later in a final paroxysm of tragedy.  <br />The novel takes its  title from the New Testament book of Luke:  &quot;Be answered, I tell you,  if these were silent, the very stones would cry out.&quot;  It is the  memory embedded in the stones that preoccupies Tsuyoshi Manase, the book's  protagonist.<br />As a war veteran, Manase has seen suffering beyond what any  imagination could conjure, including prolonged hiding from the enemy in a  cave where he is plagued by hunger, thirst, disease and rotting corpses.   It is a dying Lance Corporal, however, who becomes the catalyst that will  change Manase's life forever as he speaks to Manase about his own love of  geology.<br />After the war, Manase, himself, becomes fascinated with geology  and spends increasing amounts of time gathering stones allowing his  business, his marriage and his children to recede in importance beside his  mounting obsession.  The symbolism of the stones, and the way they carry  Manase's particular memories, as well as the memories of the universe  itself, is woven into the narrative in such a way that any reader would be  hard-pressed to forget.<br />As this harrowing story weaves its way expertly  in and out of Manase's memories, reality and hallucination intertwine until  finally, the real world, Manase's sanity and even his own innocence  regarding a ghastly crime begin to weaken and implode.  The two time  periods, past and present, are so skillfully and artfully intertwined that  one has to wonder if Manase's entire life is really nothing more than an  illusion in the cave.<br />Manase, we come to see, is battling an immense, but  nebulous, evil, an evil of which he may be the victim or he may be the  perpetrator.<br />Okuizumi renders this profound tale of terror and beauty in  the most subtle and delicate prose style, much like an exquisite painting  on a grain of rice.  The result is that Manase's nightmarish past becomes  all the more real and horrifying.<br />A surrealistic tragedy of one man's  passions, fears and delusions, this book, although short, is extremely  complex, much like the classical Japanese novels of Yasunari Kawabata.  And  the horror of Manase's story is only magnified by the exquisite quietness  of its telling.	2000-09-15
2282352:US	50718004	R3H6EHOBLGEO00	0374166994	711481092	Griefwork: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Insanity Among the Palms	Griefwork is James Hamilton-Paterson's third novel.  It is more carefully  crafted than Gerontius and Ghosts of Manila, more serious than The Bell-Boy  and more meditative than any of his other works.<br />Griefwork is set in the  time period immediately following World War II and encompasses a lyrical  and detailed character study of Leon, a brilliant, eccentric, self-taught  curator of Palm House, a large greenhouse in the botanical gardens of the  capital city of an unnamed Northern European country.  Leon struggled  against near-impossible odds to preserve Palm House throughout the Nazi  occupation of the city and is now engaged in a battle against city  authorities who would like to close the garden and develop the land on  which it sits.<br />Hamilton-Paterson tells the story of Leon's life in  flashbacks, slowly exposing the loss that serves as its defining factor and  catalyst for his now slowly encroaching insanity.  The son of a North Sea  fisherman, Leon is irrevocably changed when, as a teenager, he spends a  summer as an assistant to a visiting naturalist, one who recognizes Leon's  talents and encourages him to make full use of them.<br />More importantly,  Leon becomes obsessed with Cou Min, the young daughter of the scientist's  Asian servant.  Even though he never again sees her, her loss affects Leon  so deeply that it becomes the backdrop of his life; the reason for all he  does thereafter.<br />Leon's obsession is complicated by the events of WWII  when he rescues a young gypsy from a Fascist mob and enters into a strange  and haunting relationship with a beautiful Asian princess who wants to hire  him to create a botanical garden in her own country and who may or may not  be interested in him personally.  This lyrically meditative story slowly  spins a web that eventually catches everyone involved in ultimate disaster.   <br />The book is not without its own stylistic devices, however, and some of  them border on the pretentious.  Leon is so attuned to the plants in Palm  House that, at times, he can even hear them speak to him, just as they  speak to the reader in a pseudo-Greek chorus at the end of each chapter.   This can be disconcerting at first, especially as the plants are possessed  of some of the wittiest dialogue in the book, certainly more so than Leon,  whose grimness is unrelieved.<br />Hamilton-Paterson, however, is a master at  writing about the natural world, so this particular stylistic device  eventually works and we are keenly aware of Leon's frustrations in evoking  a &quot;natural&quot; world that can only exist under the protective  barrier of glass.<br />In a world where popular fiction is usually fast-paced  and brutal and literary fiction cool, ironic and postmodern,  Hamilton-Paterson can be seen as an anomaly or as a phenomenon.  A private  man, fifty-something, and with no institutional affiliations, he may be  seen by some as far too artistic for his own good.  Defying the brand-name  classification many publishers demand of today's novelists, all of  Hamilton-Paterson's novels, despite a similarity of style and theme, are  wildly different books.<br />Readers who are intelligent enough, or lucky  enough, to discover this wonderfully versatile author however, will find  themselves richly rewarded.  For James Hamilton-Paterson is a wonderfully  versatile author and a passionate writer.  His narratives are richly  imagined, his themes odd and knotty but filled with subtle and  compassionate characters we come to care about deeply.  And, as always, he  tells his stories in gorgeous, haunting and wonderfully precise prose.  Who  could ask for anything more?	2000-09-15
2297453:US	50718004	RDXFY1XI62F5S	0486275574	43217624	Romeo and Juliet (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	14	18	N	N	The Tragedy of Forbidden Love	The most tragic of all tragedies, this beautiful play takes place in Verona and revolves around Romeo Montague and Juliet Capulet, two young  lovers who are doomed because of the feud between their families.<br />The  play opens with a lovely sonnet which is unusual since sonnets were meant  to be from a lover to his beloved and, at this point, Romeo and Juliet have  yet to meet.  The sonnet, however, is a highly structured form of prose,  signifying order.  This contrasts with the immediate disorder of the play's  first scene during which quarreling servants provoke a fight between the  Montagues and the Capulets.<br />Shakespeare, always a master at  foreshadowing, makes liberal use of it in Romeo and Juliet with the Nurse  being one of the first characters to actually foreshadow future events in  the play.<br />Comparisons between light and dark also abound.  Upon first  seeing her, Romeo compares Juliet to &quot;a rich jewel in an Ethiope's  ear.&quot;  It is central to the play that important love scenes take place  in the dark, away from the disorder that marks the day.  Romeo loves Juliet  at night, but he kills during the confusion of the day.<br />This interaction  and conflict of night and day is raised to new levels in the second act  when Benvolio states, in reference to Romeo's passion, &quot;Blind is his  love, and best befits the dark.&quot;  And when Romeo encounters Juliet  with the now famous words, &quot;But soft, what light through yonder window  breaks?/It is the east, and Juliet is the sun./Arise, fair sun, and kill  the envious moon.&quot;  Romeo then invokes the darkness as a form of  protection from harm, saying, &quot;I have night's cloak to hide me from  their eyes.&quot;  This conflict of night versus day will not end until the  disorder of the day finally overcomes the passion of the night and destroys  the lives of the lovers.<br />Another special piece of foreshadowing occurs  near the end of the first act when Juliet states, &quot;If he be married/My  grave is like to be my wedding bed.&quot;  This will be related over and  over during the play, from both Juliet's Nurse and even from her mother,  Lady Capulet, who, in the third act comments about Juliet's refusal to  marry Paris with the words, &quot;I would the fool were married to her  grave.&quot;<br />There is also a strong conflict between the uses of silver  and gold throughout the action of the play.  Silver is often invoked as a  symbol of love and beauty.  Gold, on the other hand, is often used  ironically and as a sign of both greed and desire.  Rosaline is described  as being immune to showers of gold, and when Romeo is banished, he comments  that banishment is a &quot;golden axe&quot; akin to death.  Finally, the  erection of the statues of gold at the end of the play serves as a sign of  the fact that neither Montague nor Capulet has really learned anything from  their loss.<br />One of the most beautiful of all of Shakespeare's soliliquies  takes place during the third act when Juliet beckons for nightfall, once  again representing the contrast of the nights of love to the disorder of  the day.  &quot;Come, gentle night; come, loving, black-browed night,/Give  me my Romeo, and when he shall die/Take him and cut him out in little  stars,/And he will make the face of heaven so fine/That all the world will  be in love with night/And pay no worship to the garish sun.&quot;<br />Much in  the way the characters in Richard III dream about their fates in the final  act of that play, Romeo, too, has a dream that warns him of his fate, when  he awakens and says, &quot;I dreamt my lady came and found me dead.&quot;  Shakespeare often used dreams to foreshadow, but this particular dream also  serves to heighten the dramatic element of the tragedy by irrevocably  sealing the characters' fate.<br />When Romeo goes to the Apothecary to  purchase poison, the description of the Apothecary makes it seem as if he  were buying that poison from Death himself:  &quot;Meagre were his  looks,/Sharp misery had worn him to the bones.&quot;  Romeo pays him in  gold, saying, &quot;There is thy gold--worse poisons to men's souls.&quot;  For Romeo, gold really is a form of poison, since it will help to kill  him.<br />Sexual and biblical references also abound.  There is a strong  erotic element in the final death scene as Romeo drinks from a chalice  (whose shape is often compared to that of a woman).  Juliet says, &quot;O  happy dagger,/This is thy sheath!  There rust, and let me die.&quot;  The  dagger, of course, is Romeo's and the sexual overtones are starkly clear.  It is Juliet's love for Romeo which ultimately brings about her  death.<br />There is a strange biblical reference from Benvolio in the very  first scene of the play.  He remarks, as he attempts to stop the fighting  that is going on, &quot;Put up your swords, You know not what you do.&quot;  These words echo the words of Christ as he attempted to stop the fighting  of His apostles with the Romans during his arrest and may foreshadow  Juliet's demise, namely her three-day &quot;death&quot; followed by a  resurrection which still ultimately ends in death.<br />And finally, Friar  Laurence, at the end of the play seems to be attempting to play God in  convincing Juliet to drink a potion which will make those around her  believe she is, indeed, dead until he, himself, comes to resurrect her.  In  his attempt to play God, however, Friar Laurence is condemned to fail by  the simple arrogance of his acts, a tie-in with the death of Christ that  could not have possibly escaped the early Christians watching performances  of the play.imself:  &quot;Meagre were his  looks,/Sharp misery had worn him to the bones.&quot;  Romeo pays him in  gold, saying, &quot;There is thy gold--worse poisons to men's souls.&quot;  For Romeo, gold really is a form of poison, since it will help to kill  him.<br />Sexual and biblical references also abound.  There is a strong  erotic element in the final death scene as Romeo drinks from a chalice  (whose shape is often compared to that of a woman).  Juliet says, &quot;O  happy dagger,/This is thy sheath!  There rust, and let me die.&quot;  The  dagger, of course, is Romeo's and the sexual overtones are starkly clear.  It is Juliet's love for Romeo which ultimately brings about her  death.<br />There is a strange biblical reference from Benvolio in the very  first scene of the play.  He remarks, as he attempts to stop the fighting  that is going on, &quot;Put up your swords, You know not what you do.&quot;  These words echo the words of Christ as he attempted to stop the fighting  of His apostles with the Romans during his arrest and may foreshadow  Juliet's demise, namely her three-day &quot;death&quot; followed by a  resurrection which still ultimately ends in death.<br />And finally, Friar  Laurence, at the end of the play seems to be attempting to play God in  convincing Juliet to drink a potion which will make those around her  believe she is, indeed, dead until he, himself, comes to resurrect her.  In  his attempt to play God, however, Friar Laurence is condemned to fail by  the simple arrogance of his acts, a tie-in with the death of Christ that  could not have possibly escaped the early Christians watching performances  of the play.	2000-09-03
2319352:US	50718004	R1WXMJNN1SPN53	0156001942	79109568	Winter's Tale	Books	5	718	760	N	N	Sheer Insanity and Gorgeous Magic	Winter's Tale, a gorgeous masterpiece by master writer Mark Helprin is a book about the beauty and complexity inherent in the human soul, about God,  love and justice and the power of dreams, those that take place while we  sleep and those that we conceive while awake.<br />The story begins and ends  with Peter Lake:  orphan, master mechanic, and master second-storey man.   One night Peter attempts to rob a fortresslike mansion in New York's Upper  West Side.  Although he believes the house to be empty, it is not.  Beverly  Penn, daughter of the owner is home.  Home and dying, and thus begins a  love affair between a middle-aged Irish burgler and a fatally-ill  heiress.<br />A simple and uneducated man, Lake cannot understand the love in  which he becomes so thoroughly entangled that he is driven &quot;to stop  time and bring back the dead.&quot;<br />Inbetween the story of Peter Lake and  his quest to overcome death through the power of enduring love, Helprin  shows us a magical view of a New York City that is, at times, so  extraoridnarily real you think you are there, and at other times so magical  you only wish you could be.<br />All of Helprin's protagonists, however, are  not native New Yorkers and have come from elsewhere to seek their destiny,  a fact that goes a long way towards helping those of us not familiar with  the city feel that we have come to both know and love it.<br />Winter's Tale  spans the entire twentieth century and we get a glimpse of everything from  horse drawn carriages on cobbled streets to lunatics who rub elbows with  sable-wrapped heiresses on Fifth Avenue.<br />Ignoring reality, Helprin's book  is a glorious and ethereal melange of magic and insanity in which people  are picked up by a wall of clouds that engulfs the city and then deposited  in other times and other places. Although it can seem disjointed to someone  not accustomed to this style, it is always a delight.<br />Helprin never fails  to reward readers with one surprise after another:  a village hidden on an  island in a solid lake of ice where time stands still and the inhabitants  do nothing but skate, ice-sail and star gaze, equipped with sparkling  lanterns and mugs of hot-buttered rum; dead loved ones who are not really  dead at all but simply living joyously in another time and place awaiting  our own arrival; and a majestic white horse that can actually jump five  city blocks at one time and help its rider to escape anything that happens  to be in pursuit.<br />In Winter's Tale, anything that can happen, does  happen, and while some of it is impossible, though still always glorious,  much of it really is possible, though not quite probable.  There is  Beverly, who sleeps on the roof of her father's mansion, in the cold,  winter air, in a specially-made bed of furs and canopies, watching the  stars and defying the advent of death; there is Lake, himself, who makes  his home in the rafters of Grand Central Station; there are midnight  horse-drawn sleigh rides from the heart of New York City to the almost  mythical Lake of the Coheeries which can only be found by the light of the  moon across almost endless expanses of ice and snow; there are the clouds  that drop a living man into the icy waters beside the Staten Island Ferry;  and there are boats that simply vanish into an opaque, lightening-flickered  fog bank, never to be seen again.<br />Winter's Tale, however, is fantasy and  intense romanticism, not magic realism.  But fantasy and intense  romanticism are exactly what are called for in this fantastic and intensely  romantic tale.<br />The protagonists of Winter's Tale all meet, lose contact  with one another and then meet again as destinies cross, lose their way,  and then double back to cross again.<br />Helprin drops many hints along the  way that New York is heading for its Armageddon, a point where all good and  evil will finally meet in one climactic moment and a golden light of peace,  love and justice will usher ina new life for this glorious city.  It could  happen, and then again, maybe not, but Winter's Tale is certainly worth the  trip to see.<br />Told in gorgeous prose throughout, Winter's Tale weaves an  insanely magical tapestry of beauty and love that is both death-defying and  life-affirming.  After you read it, you will feel that it is something you  could not have lived without.	2000-08-17
2326039:US	50718004	R4RWM5VEAEGJ6	0553213415	73897934	Madame Bovary (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	93	101	N	N	In Love With Love and Doomed From the Start	In this masterpiece of French literature, Gustave Flaubert tells the tale of Emma Bovary, n&eacute;e Roualt, an incurably romantic woman who finds herself  trapped in an unsatisfactory marriage in a prosaic bourgeois French  village, Yonville-l'Abbaye.<br />Her attempts to escape the tedium of her  life through a series of adulterous affairs are thwarted by the reality  that the men she chooses to love are shallow and self-centered and thus are  unable to love anyone but themselves.<br />In love with a love that can  never be and dreadfully overstretched financially, Emma finds herself  caught in a downward spiral that can only end in tragedy.<br />Part of the  difficulty, and the pleasure, of reading Madame Bovary comes from the fact  the Flaubert refuses to embed his narrative with a moral matrix; he  refuses, at least explicitly, to tell the reader, what, if any, moral  lesson he should draw from the text.<br />It is this lack of moral viewpoint  that made Madame Bovary shocking to Flaubert's contemporaries, so much so  that Flaubert found himself taken to court for the novel's offenses to  public and religious decency.  Although today's readers will find no such  apparent scandals in the book, they will still be challenged to make sense  of both Emma and her story.<br />It is quite common to see Emma Bovary as  silly, extravagant and much too romantically inclined.  An avid consumer of  romantic literature (a habit into which the heroine was indoctrinated in  her convent school upbringing), Emma has made the morbid mistake of buying  into the notion of romantic love in its fullest sense, and the mortal  mistake of believing she can reach its fulfillment in her own life.<br />As  such, Emma Bovary becomes a tragic figure of almost mythic proportion.  Far  from being foolish and self-indulgent, Emma is the victim of her own fecund  imagination.  A lesser woman would have been satisfied in the constrained  world Emma inhabits, a world of sewing and teas and parties.  But Emma is  possessed of both splendid passions and tremendous energy; an artist and a  rebel in her challenge to the priorities and ideals of her age.<br />Madame  Bovary is an unusual novel in the sense that it has given its name to its  own psychological condition:  bovarysme, the condition in which we delude  ourselves as to who and what we really are and as to life's potential to  fulfill.<br />In this sense, Madame Bovary becomes the story of one woman's  faulty perception of reality.  In an early version of the novel, Flaubert  included a scene at the ball at La Vaubyessard in which Emma is seen  looking out at the landscape surrounding the house through colored panes of  glass, a scene clearly meant as a representation of Emma's projection onto  the world of an illusory and faulty model of reality.<br />Emma cannot, or  will not, see the world as it is, since she is constantly imposing onto it,  and herself, the criteria of romantic literature.  Flaubert has thus  written a supremely romantic novel about the dangers of reading supremely  romantic novels!<br />Romantics, Flaubert seems to be saying, have no  reasonable hope of ever seeing their fondest dreams come to  fruition.<br />This is, indeed, a recurrent pattern in the novel:  Emma dreams  of one thing but gets something else entirely.  Marriage, motherhood, and  ultimately, adultery, all fall short of Emma's expectations and she appears  to be a woman doomed to one disappointment after another.<br />Although Emma  believes her marriage will fulfill her romantic expectations, Charles  certainly fails to live up to Emma's hopes, and even Rodolphe, with his  expensive riding boots, gloves and substantial income is  eventually  considered coarse and vulgar by Emma.  L&eacute;on, the very essence of the young,  romantic artist, leaves Emma when he is made premier clerc, and Emma finds  she much come to the realization that even adultery contains &quot;toutes  les platitudes du mariage.&quot;<br />The foregoing certainly begs the  question:  are Emma's expectations too high or is life fundamentally  deficient?<br />The society portrayed in Madame Bovary is one stratified in  terms of class, and this is a book about the bourgeoisie, a portrait of  class in the process of finding and defining itself and its role in  society.<br />The novel is filled with scenes of buying and selling and even  personal relationships fall under the sway of financial  considerations.<br />What is particularly notable about Emma is her  extravagance:  she spares no thought for expense and consumes far beyond  her means.  Rejecting good economic management, thrift and hard work, Emma  dedicates herself to style extraordinaire and lavishes expensive presents  on her &quot;man of the moment.&quot;<br />The world described in Madame  Bovary is an extremely enclosed and restricted one and images of entrapment  are abundant throughout the book.  Emma's first marital home is described  as &quot;trop &eacute;troite;&quot; her marriage to Charles is likened to  &quot;l'ardillon pointu de cette courroie complexe qui la bouclait de tous  les côtes.&quot;<br />These restrictive images clearly demonstrate how  confining Emma finds her world.  Trapped in the dusty and damp home with  its &quot;&eacute;ternel jardin,&quot; the highly imaginative Emma sees no  escape.<br />It is interesting to note that when Emma does attempt to escape  the confines of femininity, society and marriage through adultery, many of  the scenes take place al fresco.  (The first act of adultery with Rodolphe  takes place in a forest and her later relationship with L&eacute;on contains a  scene on a river.)<br />Later scenes, however, reveal the degradation inherent  in Emma's acts and she finds herself confined to bedrooms that are sorely  reminiscent of the restrictions of her married life.  The fiacre ride with  L&eacute;on in Rouen, in particular, is anticipatory of entrapment.  For Emma,  adultery eventually becomes as much of a prison as is marriage and family  life.<br />Another recurrent image is that of the window.  This can be  interpreted as Emma's desire for escape or as a reaffirmation of her  entrapment and powerlessness.  The window opens onto a space of which poor  Emma can only sit and dream; it serves as a frame for both her  dissatisfaction and her fantasies.<br />In order to enjoy Madame Bovary to the  fullest extent, it must be read in the original French.  This is an  absolute for Flaubert was an author who made full use of the potential  offered by his native tongue.  Although many translations are superb,  nothing can match the original French in its poetic prose and lush  descriptions.<br />Many interpretations of this wonderful and timeless novel  are possible and all, no doubt, hold some validity.  Therein lies the  book's genius.  Of one thing, though, we have no doubt:  luscious Emma  Bovary was, indeed, a victim.  Whether of herself or of a repressive  society matters little.certainly begs the  question:  are Emma's expectations too high or is life fundamentally  deficient?<br />The society portrayed in Madame Bovary is one stratified in  terms of class, and this is a book about the bourgeoisie, a portrait of  class in the process of finding and defining itself and its role in  society.<br />The novel is filled with scenes of buying and selling and even  personal relationships fall under the sway of financial  considerations.<br />What is particularly notable about Emma is her  extravagance:  she spares no thought for expense and consumes far beyond  her means.  Rejecting good economic management, thrift and hard work, Emma  dedicates herself to style extraordinaire and lavishes expensive presents  on her &quot;man of the moment.&quot;<br />The world described in Madame  Bovary is an extremely enclosed and restricted one and images of entrapment  are abundant throughout the book.  Emma's first marital home is described  as &quot;trop étroite;&quot; her marriage to Charles is likened to  &quot;l'ardillon pointu de cette courroie complexe qui la bouclait de tous  les côtes.&quot;<br />These restrictive images clearly demonstrate how  confining Emma finds her world.  Trapped in the dusty and damp home with  its &quot;éternel jardin,&quot; the highly imaginative Emma sees no  escape.<br />It is interesting to note that when Emma does attempt to escape  the confines of femininity, society and marriage through adultery, many of  the scenes take place al fresco.  (The first act of adultery with Rodolphe  takes place in a forest and her later relationship with Léon contains a  scene on a river.)<br />Later scenes, however, reveal the degradation inherent  in Emma's acts and she finds herself confined to bedrooms that are sorely  reminiscent of the restrictions of her married life.  The fiacre ride with  Léon in Rouen, in particular, is anticipatory of entrapment.  For Emma,  adultery eventually becomes as much of a prison as is marriage and family  life.<br />Another recurrent image is that of the window.  This can be  interpreted as Emma's desire for escape or as a reaffirmation of her  entrapment and powerlessness.  The window opens onto a space of which poor  Emma can only sit and dream; it serves as a frame for both her  dissatisfaction and her fantasies.<br />In order to enjoy Madame Bovary to the  fullest extent, it must be read in the original French.  This is an  absolute for Flaubert was an author who made full use of the potential  offered by his native tongue.  Although many translations are superb,  nothing can match the original French in its poetic prose and lush  descriptions.<br />Many interpretations of this wonderful and timeless novel  are possible and all, no doubt, hold some validity.  Therein lies the  book's genius.  Of one thing, though, we have no doubt:  luscious Emma  Bovary was, indeed, a victim.  Whether of herself or of a repressive  society matters little.	2000-08-12
2328040:US	50718004	R4ES77VSHW0WW	0870114255	942771357	Sun & Steel (Japan's Modern Writers)	Books	5	59	62	N	N	Tragic Heroism	In Sun and Steel, Yukio Mishima, one of Japan's most important writers,  offers an intimate look at how he reconciled his life with the creative  process.<br />From the outset, it is clear that Mishima advocated an  &quot;active&quot; creativity and that he held in contempt those who used  words to convey experiences yet denied their own heroic capabilities.<br />For  Mishima, art, action and creativity had to embrace the tragic.  To be a  hero meant sacrifice of the highest order and suffering life's strangest  and most difficult problems.  &quot;He who dabbles in words can create  tragedy, wrote Mishima, &quot;but cannot participate in it.&quot;<br />Mishima  begins Sun and Steel by telling us that, for much of his life, he held an  unnatural view of the world, due to the fact that his awareness of words  preceded his awareness of his body.  This isolated him, he says, and he  spent much time at his bedroom window simply watching the world go  by.<br />&quot;Words,&quot; says Mishima, &quot;are a medium that reduces the  world to an abstraction...and in their power to corrode reality inevitably  lurks the danger that the words will be corroded, too.&quot;<br />Mishima  explains how he attempted to overcome this &quot;corrosive function of  words&quot; with physical discipline of the body.  Because his early years  were suffused with words, as an adult, he seeks balance in life with a  preoccupation with the physical.  His body, he says, came to be a metaphor  of the human condition and allowed him to directly experience the tragic in  life.<br />Life, says, Mishima, can be intellectualized, but the only thing  that imposes dignity on life is the element of mortality that lies within.   Here we have the key to both Mishima's writing and his own life and  death.<br />As Mishima continues to impose a rigorous discipline over both his  mind and body, he comes to realize that the mind and body are truly  inseparable.  &quot;I was driven to the conclusion that the 'I' in question  corresponded precisely with that physical space that I occupied.&quot;   <br />In taking up the practice of Kendo, Mishima comes to the realization  that he desires neither victory nor defeat unless he also has conflict.   The battle is emphasized, not the goal.<br />Anyone can conquer what lies  beneath him, says Mishima, and it is the process of overcoming higher and  higher obstacles that brings one into the sphere of the tragic.<br />Mishima  finally comes to the conclusion that, &quot;The most appropriate type of  daily life...was a day-to-day world destruction.&quot;  Mishima had thus  become a nihilist, a hero who could look death in the eye and choose to act  anyway.<br />Although seemingly severe and extreme in outlook, Sun and Steel  reveals Mishima to be a man who advocated moderation instead.  His desire  to create is balanced with a desire to nothingness; he lives his life in an  area that is inaccessible to words or action alone.<br />Those who have read  Mishima's fiction and found it inaccessible will benefit greatly by reading  Sun and Steel.  Those who have read and enjoyed his words will, with Sun  and Steel, arrive at a deeper and fuller understanding of this complex and  fascinating man.  <br />Had we only been able to read these words prior to  November 1970, we might have been able to both understand and appreciate  the circumstances surrounding Mixhima's tragically heroic death.  It is  still not too late.	2000-08-11
2331572:US	50718004	R11VWBTSY29W0T	0553208845	36215520	Siddhartha	Books	5	213	226	N	N	A Mystical Look at a Universal Problem	Set in India, Siddhartha is subtitled an &quot;Indic Poetic Work&quot; and  clearly it does owe much to both Buddhism and Hinduism, however the  philosophy embodied in Siddhartha is both unique and quite complex, despite  the lyrically beautiful simplicity of the plot.<br />Siddhartha is one of the  names of the historical Gautama and while the life of Hesse's character  resembles that of his historical counterpart to some extent, Siddhartha is  by no means a fictional life of Buddha and his teachings.<br />Siddhartha is  divided into two parts of four and eight chapters, something some have  interpreted as an illustration of Buddhism's Four Noble Truths and the  Eightfold Path to Enlightenment.<br />Elements of Hinduism can also be found  in Siddhartha.  Some critics maintain that Hesse was influenced largely by  the Bhagavad Gita when he wrote the book and that his protagonist was  groping his way along a path outlined in that text.  Certainly the central  problems of Siddhartha and the Gita are similar:  how can the protagonist  attain a state of happiness and serenity by means of a long and arduous  path?<br />Hesse's protagonist, however, seeks his own personal path to  fulfillment, not someone else's.  It is one of trial and error and he is  only subconsciously aware of its nature.  Although many see Siddhartha's  quest as embodying the ideals of Buddhism, Siddhartha objects to the  negative aspects of Gautama's teaching.  He rejects Gautama's model for  himself and he rejects Buddhism; Siddhartha insists upon the right to  choose his own path to fulfillment.<br />The primary theme of Siddhartha is  the individual's difficult and lonely search for self-fulfillment.  Both  the means used by the hero in his quest and the nature of his fulfillment  are of prime importance and reflect recurring themes that thread their way  through all of Hesse's work.<br />Although Siddhartha listens with great  respect to the words of Buddha and does not reject Buddhism as being right  for others, he, himself, does not become Buddha's disciple, but decides to  pursue his goal through his own effort, not by following a teacher.  As in  Demian, Nietzsche's influence is apparent; the reader is strongly reminded  of Nietzsche's Zarathustra who exhorts his listeners not to follow him, but  to excel themselves.<br />Siddhartha's sense of fulfillment is a mystical one  and cannot be defined with precision.  In this respect, it resembles the  Nirvana of Buddhism.  The most important aspect of Siddhartha's growing  awareness, however, is an unselfish and undirected love.<br />The division of  the world into the two opposing poles of masculine and feminine is another  common theme in Hesse's writings.  The Father World, or masculine, is  dominated by the intellect, reason, spirit, stability and discipline; the  Mother Word, or feminine, by emotion, love, fertility, birth, death,  fluidity, nature and the senses.<br />While this symbolism is more pronounced  in other works, such as Demian and The Glass Bead Game, it is also present  and consistently developed in Siddhartha.<br />Siddhartha's position vis-a-vis  the two worlds changes during the course of the novel.  At times, he seems  to embrace one world more than the other; at other times he unites the  virtues of each.<br />Two symbolic elements thread their way through  Siddhartha; that of the river and that of a smile.  Suggestive of fluidity  as well as the paradoxical union  of permanence and flux, the river is an  age-old symbol of eternity and spiritual communion.<br />A second important  symbol in Siddhartha is that of the smile.  The characters in the story who  attain a final state of complete serenity are each characterized by a  beautiful smile reflecting a peaceful and harmonious state of being.<br />Each  of these symbols is associated with Siddhartha at key junctures in his  quest.<br />Siddhartha is written in an extremely simple style, in keeping  with the inherent simplicity of the plot, theme and general tone of the  book.  The syntax is uncomplicated and except for a few technical terms  from Indian philosophy, the vocabulary is straightforward.  Frequent use is  made of leitmotifs, parallelism and repetition and, in the original German,  the language is rhythmic and lyrical, reminiscent of a poetic religious  text with a definite meditative quality.<br />Siddhartha is told by an  omniscient third person narrator with frequent direct and indirect  quotations of the words and thoughts of various characters, especially  Siddhartha.  The narrator, almost invariably, looks at things from  Siddhartha's perspective, and even when other characters are discussed or  quoted, it is always to shed light on Siddhartha, himself.<br />A mystical and  lyrical book, Siddhartha is a beautiful story of a truly personal quest  towards the self-fulfillment we all must strive to attain.he plot, theme and general tone of the  book.  The syntax is uncomplicated and except for a few technical terms  from Indian philosophy, the vocabulary is straightforward.  Frequent use is  made of leitmotifs, parallelism and repetition and, in the original German,  the language is rhythmic and lyrical, reminiscent of a poetic religious  text with a definite meditative quality.<br />Siddhartha is told by an  omniscient third person narrator with frequent direct and indirect  quotations of the words and thoughts of various characters, especially  Siddhartha.  The narrator, almost invariably, looks at things from  Siddhartha's perspective, and even when other characters are discussed or  quoted, it is always to shed light on Siddhartha, himself.<br />A mystical and  lyrical book, Siddhartha is a beautiful story of a truly personal quest  towards the self-fulfillment we all must strive to attain.	2000-08-08
2335792:US	50718004	R2LRLFBHRIAEOS	0060977493	521720988	The God of Small Things	Books	4	51	61	N	N	Allegedly Alluring Alliterative Allegory	This highly stylized novel tells the tale of a turbulent, patrician,  Syrian Christian family from a small town in Kerala, in the southernmost  tip of India.<br />The plot centers on the seven year old fraternal twins  Esthappen (Estha) and Rahel and is told from the point of view of  Rahel.<br />A strange and eccentric cast of characters rounds out the family  with whom Estha and Rahel live.  There is Blind Mammachi, the twins'  grandmother and founder of Paradise Pickles and Preserves.  Blind Mammachi  is a virtuous violin-playing widow who suffered years of unwarranted abuse  at the hands of her highly-respected husband and who now has a fierce  one-sided Oedipal connection with her son, Chacko.<br />There is Estha and  Rahel's grandaunt, Baby Kochamma, who totters on air cushions for feet  while playing out the bitterness of her lifetime of unrequited love for an  Irish Roman Catholic priest; she even converted to Catholicism in order to  win him...just as he was converting to Hinduism.  Now, a spiteful, spirited  spinster, Baby Kochamma spends her days savoring soap operas and satellite  television wrestling matches.<br />And then, there is Velutha, the title  character, an ebulliently talented handyman, tainted by his Paravan  lineage.<br />Chacko, who is now divorced from his English wife and who hasn't  seen his baby daughter since her infancy, runs Paradise Pickles and  Preserves with the iron hand of what he deludes himself into thinking is  communism, even as he flirts with and beds his female employees.<br />The  twins' mother, Ammu, is a divorcée (and a devotée of divorce), who fled her  tyrannical husband's alcoholism and incessantly insistent demands, and yet  Ammu, herself, is a wilfull woman with a wickedly wild side that will prove  to be the undoing of both herself and her unsuspecting family.  A feminist  before feminism, Ammu cannot decide on a last name, because as she says,  &quot;choosing between her husband's name and her father's name didn't give  a woman much of a choice.&quot;  At all.<br />Roy's characters are both fun  and funny because &quot;They broke all the rules.  They crossed into  forbidden territory.  They tampered with the laws that lay down who should  be loved and how.  And how much.  The laws that make grandmothers  grandmothers, uncles uncles, mothers mothers, cousins cousins, jam jam and  jelly jelly.&quot;  With the exception if Ammu and Chacko, though, they  are, unfortunately, made of plaster already filled with cracks and holes  and ready to crumble, rather than solidly constructed of flesh and blood  and, therefore, they suffer the fate of the not-very-believable.<br />The  tragedy in this book revolves around the visit of Chacko's ex-wife, now a  willing widow courtesy of her second husband, and Chacko's daughter, Sophie  Mol.  Together this eclectically and fatally-fractured family will endure  an inexorable egress toward disillusion, madness, guilt, betrayal and  death.  Lives, of course, will be forever fragmented as the one aspect all  the characters share is their own vulnerability; the ability to be  physically and psychologically wounded.<br />Lovers of Hemingway should  definitely eschew this book, for this is no linear, spare story.  A  densely-woven tapestry made of constantly undulating, heavily-layered plots  and lush torrents of newly-minted words and phrases, The God of Small  Things is told in flashbacks and flashforwards and twists and turns that  are as fresh and original as a newly-hybridized tomato, straight off the  vine.  This is good, brilliant even, when there is a story to tell.  The  God of Small Things, however, might just be a little short on story and a  little long on style.<br />Although Roy's dazzlingly daunting and agile  ability to turn a phrase cannot be denied, it is her breathtaking aptitude  for summing up a damaged life in one or two felicitous phrases that  constitutes her major talent, for instance, the description of the  great-grandmother's portrait:  &quot;With her eyes she looked in the  direction her husband looked.  With her heart she looked away.&quot;  Or,  &quot;Baby Kochamma had lived her life backwards.  As a young woman she  renounced the material word, and now, as an old one, she seemed to embrace  it.  She hugged it and it hugged her back.&quot;<br />As brilliant and  original as this book is, it is certainly not a masterpiece.  Despite its  fine, often heady, writing, there remains something of the formulaic about  it.  Evocative and sensual descriptions aside, the tragedy that occurs and  the love affair that ensues are both predictable and implausible, in part,  because they spring from neither characterization nor the needs of the  unfolding (sort-of) non-plot.<br />The word play and the all-pervasive use of  children's lingo, devices that serve to make the beginning of the novel  sparkle and shine like sunshine on sea water, begin to wear as thin as a  poor man's watered-down gruel after one hundred pages (more or less), and  become both predictable and tedious.<br />And, of course, there are several  scenes (the most glaring taking place in a theatre) that seem quite  gratuitous, something that Roy seemed to have inserted simply to shock for  shock's sake.  In a day and age when nothing shocks but the unvarnished  truth (and even then, not always), these scenes are simply irritating and  definitely detract from the would-be charms of the novel.<br />The bottom  line, for most readers, will not be the plot, or even the lack thereof, but  their view of Roy's original prose style.  Is it ostentatious or is it  brilliant?  Readers who find The Old Man the Sea the pinnacle of style  should probably stay away.  But those who enjoy working their way with a  machete through a veritable forest of a book, filled with lush,  densely-growing undergrowth, should find The God of Small Things nothing  short of fantastic.	2000-08-06
2339391:US	50718004	R1FI3FCZ2JZ198	0517884151	516729403	Renoir (Crown Art Library)	Books	5	43	45	N	N	An Artist in the Fullest Sense of the Word	Pierre-Auguste Renoir was an artist in the fullest sense of the word.  The  paintings he left us show us the simplicity and sensuality of his times and  their brilliant colors and joyous images express the passion of Renoir's  own soul.<br />The paradise of color and the changing effects of light were  Renoir's greatest gift to the world.  This book, Renoir:  The Crown Art  Library, showcases some of the artist's most beloved works and gives a  brief overview of his life.<br />A quick glance at this book tells you that  Renoir's favorite subject was always people.  In fact, it is possible to  select an entire series of masterpieces from Renoir's works without  including even one landscape--something that would be impossible with any  of the other Impressionists.<br />The people created by Renoir are always  filled with the warm joy of simply being alive.  Of the many illustrations  in this book, most are in color, allowing us to both study and participate  in the &quot;joie de vivre&quot; that Renoir, more than any other artist,  communicated to the world.<br />There is a short analysis of the evolution of  Renoir's technique and we learn why he abandoned the dark, sombre colors of  the Old Masters and turned to the brilliant reds, blues, yellows and greens  of which he was so fond.  <br />We learn how and why the feminine form became  a stronger and stronger element in his paintings, especially those of his  later years, and we see how, in the last ten years of his life, he limited  his palette to only a few colors--cinnabar, ochre, Naples yellow, black and  some white, yet managed to create playful visions of a sun-bright world,  seemingly devoid of weight; paintings in which contours of people and  surroundings are blurred and all is joined in a concord of color and  naturalness.<br />Renoir:  The Crown Art Library is a wonderful introduction  to the life and style of this master Impressionist, the world's most joyous  painter.  Those looking for a biography of Renoir would be better off  choosing Renoir, My Father, by Jean Renoir, the artist's middle son.   In-depth analyses of Impressionism and Renoir's own technique in  particular, are also better covered in other books such as Rewald's History  of Impressionism.<br />But for the vast majority of people, laymen who only  want to increase their knowledge and appreciation of the world's greatest  artists, Renoir:  The Crown Art Library offers a wonderful starting point.   With is lavish illustrations and lively text, it will broaden the scope of  anyone's understanding.  The book is a joy to browse and once insight is  gained into the how and why of each painting, that joy is only  increased.<br />While certainly far from exhaustive, Renoir:  The Crown Art  Library, is a lovely book and anyone with even a passing interest in Renoir  and Impressionism will find it well worth their while.	2000-08-03
2340407:US	50718004	R3HEYAWCN7LQ4A	0679601813	569503661	The Brothers Karamazov (Modern Library)	Books	5	129	137	N	N	The Fulfillment of Artistic Vision	&quot;I would die happy if I could finish this final novel, for I would  have then expressed myself completely.&quot;<br />This statement from Fyodor  Dostoyevsky helps elucidate both the theme and purpose of the The Brothers  Karamazov, one of the greatest masterpieces of world literature.  Superficially, the novel deals with a patricide and how each of the book's  characters contributed directly or indirectly to that murder.<br />Yet, The  Brothers Karamazov, at its heart, is so much more.  Its underlying theme  deals with the drive for self-redemption in the eyes of both God and man  and the role suffering plays in facilitating that redemption.<br />Fyodor  Karamazov has fathered four sons, Dmitri, Ivan and Alyosha, by two wives,  and one, Smerdyakov, with a peasant woman known as stinking  Lizaveta.<br />Fyodor Karamazov, a vulgar and ill-tempered man represents, for  Dostoyevsky, the Russian government of his times.  Like the government,  Fyodor shuns his children, preferring instead the materialistic, but  joyless, life of wealth and possessions.  His union with Lizaveta, who  comes to represent all the peasants of Dostoyevsky's Russia, produces  Smerdyakov, a bastard child who, in his own turn, will be raped and  pillaged by the government and will go on to give birth, metaphorically, to  bastard children of his own.<br />Karamazov's eldest son, Dmitri, an impulsive  sensualist, finds respect as an overbearing soldier but one whose inability  to pay his debts eventually turns him into a poor and irrational  man.<br />Ivan, Fyodor's second son, is a cold intellectual who finds his  fulfillment in his literary and creative abilities.  He becomes famous  through his writings, especially those concerning the Russian Church.<br />The  youngest son, Aloysha, finds temporary fulfillment in the cloistered,  monastic life.  Outwardly innocent and naive, Aloysha struggles with his  desire for spiritual fulfillment in the monastery and the joys and  excitement of the secular life.<br />The character who provides the catalyst  for change is that of Father Zosima, a character who seems to embody the  strong spiritual sense that was Dostoyevsky, himself.<br />Father Zosima, who  has lived a pure and spiritually-nourishing life, has the gift to sense  both a man's motivations and his needs.  Zosima tells the brothers  Karamazov that a sheltered, monastic life is not a prerequisite to the  achievement of spiritual riches, a fact that seems to be proven true when  Zosima's corpse rots after his death in direct contradiction to Russian  belief at the times regarding spiritual purity.<br />It is Father Zosima who,  throughout the book, expounds Dostoyevsky's theory that it is suffering  that will purify and cleanse our soul, thus bringing us peace.  Each  brother, in his own fashion, undergoes his own trial by fire, and, in the  end, is better for it.<br />One brother, tormented by a guilt he does not  deserve, must live his life in unwanted exile, or not at all, though he  possesses the heart and soul of a true Russian.  Another suffers the  torments of a complete nervous breakdown that leaves him grappling on the  very edge of sanity.  Only a third son seems to find the answer he is  seeking and the novel's uplifting final scene epitomizes Dostoyevsky's  eternal belief in the importance of Russia's children in her future, as  children hold their hands high and shout, &quot;Three cheers for  Karamazov,&quot; ending this essentially depressing masterpiece on a joyous  note.<br />An extraordinarily complex and rich novel, The Brothers Karamozov  also deals with man's response to death.  All of the characters, each in  his own way, attempts to flee from death and only those who can finally  accept the finality of death and the suffering of living find justification  and fulfillment in life.<br />Dostoyevsky uses many stylistic devices to  expound upon his theme of redemption through suffering:  imagery, irony and  dreams are three of the most prominent, however, it is Dostoyevsky's  wonderful ability to manipulate the third person subjective that serves to  illuminate each character and bring him to life.<br />The Brothers Karamazov  is a book that delves deeply into the heart of man and the soul of Russia.  Dostoyevsky, as any true artist, presented facets of himself in all of his  characters who each manages to see the world in a different way and finds  redemption through his own unique vision.<br />Ironically, one of the brothers  Karamazov is portrayed as a young man who begins to instill the seeds of  change in Russia through its children, something Dostoyevsky, himself,  thought was needed if Russia was ever to make the transition from a  backward country to a global power.  That it did, although the children  Dostoyevsky envisioned as spiritual visionaries became instead, violent  revolutionaries.  They sought to free the peasants, not through  enlightenment but through the establishment of a totalitarian state Peter  the Great would have envied.  Today, however, Russia tragically lies amidst  the same poverty in which it was dwelling one hundred years  earlier.<br />Clearly, Dostoyevsky's path to enlightenment, illuminated  brilliantly in The Brothers Karamazov, has not yet been fully assimilated  by either the people of Russia or the people of the world in general.<br />A  sad and ironic twist to the vision of a master writer and a truly prophetic  man.	2000-08-03
2343452:US	50718004	R35QQ42VYKS4SN	0060955228	535077019	Under the Volcano (Perennial Classic.)	Books	3	44	52	N	N	Tortured and Tortuous	On the fiesta Day of Death in Mexico, Geoffrey Firmin, ex-consul, ex-husband, confirmed alcoholic and self-ruined man, is living out the last twelve hours of his life.<br />As his younger brother, Hugh, and his former  wife, Yvonne, stand by, powerless to help, Firmin drowns himself in a sea  of beer, tequila, mescal and self-pity.<br />The Day of Death (All Souls Day)  is one of the Catholic holidays with decidedly pagan influences which  defines the peculiarly baroque Christian spiritual culture of Mexico.  Its  symbolism digs into the very soil where the dead are lying, not  consolingly, but with a brutal irony, for on this day, the dead hunger and  thirst as the living do, but much more intensely, much like the  unquenchable thirst of an alcoholic.<br />The fiesta Day of Death is the  perfect backdrop against which to set one man's agonized journey towards  Calvary, if indeed, the final deterioration of a drunk can be termed as  such.<br />Lowry certainly wrenches terror from the bowels of hell in his  description of Firmin's DTs, hallucinations and distortions extraordinaire.   However, the book, like its main character, lacks a certain stability and  coherence; on this, the Day of Death, the environment itself, not to  mention Geoffrey Firmin, are hurtling towards destruction, violently out of  control.<br />In telling the story of Geoffrey Firmin, Malcolm Lowry imposed  upon himself a twelve hour time frame (shorter even, than the time span  Joyce allowed himself for Ulysses).  In such a condensed time scale, the  leisurely, orderly and coherent unfolding of plot, not to mention character  development, can present an enormous problem.<br />Lowry regarded each of the  book's twelve chapters as a free-standing, almost poetic, structure with  both verbal and symbolic coherence, belonging to one of the book's four  main characters.  As such, they feel geometric, perhaps even decadent,  rather than dramatic.  Lowry included passages from his own poems and from  part of the Dantesque trilogy, The Voyage that Never Ends, which he did not  complete.<br />Although the book can be (and almost always is) tortured and  tortuous, Lowry did write in emphatically rhythmic prose.  Many of the  sentences are extraordinarily taxing to read, for example, the long,  convoluted sentence that opens Chapter Three.  Several of the novels  passages are even more twisting and painful.  <br />This is not the fussy  elaboration of Henry James whose longest sentences still manage to retain  contact with the speaking and feeling voice of each character.  Lowry  instead, uses syntax as architecture.  Despite the prosody, Under the  Volcano is not written in conventional, horizontal &quot;flow,&quot; but in  balanced, vertical units, stilled in time.<br />Much of what Lowry employs in  Under the Volcano is unnatural in the novel:  the long iambic runs, the  elaborate time-schemes, switchbacks and gradual bits and pieces of  information that cause the book to finally make sense.<br />Under the Volcano  endures precisely because of its tortured and tortuous writing style.   Lowry, like Theseus, used this one twisted thread to find his was out of  the labyrinth.  The language employed, with its root system of symbolic  connections and counter-references, its constancy of tone, all contribute  to the final weight of the book.  Lowery seems to have endowed his book  with as much organized complexity as that of his principal  characters.<br />From the first page, Under the Volcano has a definitely  &quot;static&quot; feel, no doubt due to the static being of its main  character.  Geoffrey Firmin is not engaged in a battle with alcoholism; he  has already surrendered and is simply awaiting the inevitable.  For  Geoffrey Firmin, there is no epiphany, no moment of recognition.  The whole  book is really one long dénouement.<br />And therein lies the book's genius.   Lowry was able to reconcile a supremely static character with a supremely  static writing style requiring enormous concentration and effort.  The  problem is, Lowry needed to tell us so much more than we needed to know.   <br />For Lowry, the creation of Under the Volcano was no doubt compelling and  purgative; and, although the book has definitely attained a &quot;cult  classic&quot; status, for the vast majority of intelligent readers, it has  proven to be far less required.	2000-08-01
2345235:US	50718004	R1KVUJZ4XVZ811	0375407340	879408147	Miss Wyoming: A Novel	Books	4	23	24	N	N	A Comedy of Manners For Generation X	Douglas Coupland is the writer whose book, Generation X, was so smart, hip and slightly disillusioned that it coined a phrase to describe a generation of smart, hip and slightly disillusioned Americans.<br />This book, Miss  Wyoming, follows the parallel stories of Susan Colgate and John Lodge  Johnson and encompasses everything from the American beauty pageant culture  to near death experiences.<br />Susan Colgate is a former pageant &quot;work  horse&quot; and low-budget television star.  Typical of pageant hopefuls  and television aspirants, she embodies a surgically-enhanced, plastic kind  of unnaturally-endowed beauty and, as would be expected, her life unfolds  much like a trite and manipulative soap storyline.  One racing toward a  definitely unhappy end.<br />Susan, however, is a survivor.  She has survived  a manipulative and grasping stage mother, a plane crash in which she was  the only survivor, and a year in which she &quot;went along&quot; with the  story of her own apparent death.<br />John's life hasn't been a whole lot  better.  The son of a downwardly-mobile and rapidly-fading socialite and  her constantly-disappearing husband, John endured a childhood filled with  endless illness and depression only to come into his own as a successful  maker of films.<br />Success for John, though, is narrowly defined and means  the constant ricochet from one stimulus-induced high to another.  For John,  the bigger the high, the more thrilling the thrill, and no amount of money  is too much to spend.<br />His &quot;thrilling&quot; lifestyle, however, comes  to an abrupt crash landing when he falls prey to a particularly virulent  virus and experiences an astral projection, the likes of which he has  previously only dreamed.<br />It is when Susan and John meet that Miss Wyoming  really takes off.<br />Coupland is one of those rare authors whose subject  matter suits his writing style perfectly.  Yes, much of it is &quot;mind  candy&quot; but it is mind candy written with such an infectious joyousness  that it is difficult for even the most jaded reader to resist its allure.   His characters are victims of the too-much-too-often, freeze-dried,  quick-fix excess, yet they are never trite and never fail to amuse.<br />The  plot ricochets from one event to another, much like the characters, and  they do their best to struggle and survive and even, at times,  connect.<br />Miss Wyoming is definitely satire and it is modern satire of the  highest order.  Surprisingly so.  The patron saint of satire, Oscar Wilde,  defined the genre as being not only witty, succinct and accurate, but also  imbued with a love of humanity and all its quirks.  Coupland's writing  shows this same generosity and love of his fellow man and it is this  quality, more than any other, that pulls Miss Wyoming far above other  novels in the genre.<br />What could be more ripe for criticism than the  youth-and-beauty-worshiping, celebrity-obsessed, consumerist culture of  America today?  Yet, Coupland embraces this culture with a sweetness that  brings his flawed and failing but always-hanging-in-there characters to  life.<br />Our priorities, says Coupland, are genuinely laughable, but we can  and sometimes do, transcend them.  While lampooning the excesses of America  today, Coupland still manages to cherish his fellow man, quirks and all.   It is this very innocence and love that, in the end, make Miss Wyoming a  very hip, very smart and very compassionate book to read.	2000-07-31
2345366:US	50718004	R15OIFLFC4MPO4	0151005958	658914747	The Tale of the Unknown Island	Books	3	31	38	N	N	It Could Have Been and Should Have Been So Beautiful	Jose Saramago's book, The Tale of the Unknown Island is a little book that presents a little story.  Both a love story and a fable, The Tale of the Unknown Island presents an elegant and exquisite premise that is  disappointingly flawed in its execution.<br />The book begins beguilingly  enough, when a man with a quest knocks at the door of a king and begs for a  boat to make an expedition to an unknown island.  The king is not  immediately agreeable but our hero finds an unlikely ally in the king's  cleaning woman and, after receiving the ship he has asked for, he and the  woman join forces.<br />There is one problem.  There are no unknown islands.   All that exist have already been mapped and claimed by the king.  When the  harbormaster attempts to dissuade the man from his dream, and no one signs  on board as crew members, the hero of this little tale finds that only the  cleaning woman will help him pursue his seemingly impossible dream.<br />The  island is discovered, but unfortunately, the journey taken is literally one  of which the stuff of dreams are made.  REM sleep and narcoleptic love play  a big part in this story.  It is here, in the land of dreams, where the  story really falls apart and our suspension of disbelief grows harder and  harder to suspend.<br />Nobel Prize winner, Jose Saramago, is the author of  breathtakingly beautiful books such as Baltasar and Blimunda and The Gospel  According to Jesus Christ, and works of stunning originality like  Blindness, so I expected far more from The Tale of the Unknown Island.   Perhaps these high expectations were a part of the problem.<br />The book is  written in Saramago's signature style:  a breathless, barely punctuated,  almost stream-of-consciousness manner that is, as always, flawless, and  that captures the innocence and high spirits of the protagonist perfectly.   The metaphors created, however, are highly overstated and, at times, highly  irritating.<br />Thematically, The Tale of the Unknown Island should have  worked so beautifully.  There is a lazy and wicked antagonist in the guise  of the king, there is the pure and innocent hero, there is the classic  quest necessary for the hero to prove himself and become whole and there is  the requisite healing power of true love.  The key to the ending is faith  and the key to that faith is love.  <br />With all of the required elements of  fairy tales and fables, why, then did this book fail to hit the  mark?<br />Fairy tales and fables are, by their very nature, simple little  tales.  The Tale of the Unknown Island is quite complex but told in a  simplified manner.  And, as we all know, &quot;simplified&quot; does not  quite equal the beauty inherent in &quot;simple.&quot;  Saramago's abrupt  switch from satire to allegory was jarring, to say the least, and  definitely detracted from the book's could-have-been charms.<br />The gemlike  playfulness and grace embodied in a tale such as The Princess Bride or The  Last Unicorn is sorely lacking in The Tale of the Unknown Island.<br />The  illustrated edition, however, is still well worth the time and money.   Peter Sis' drawings, composed of clean lines and classical beauty have a  fey air of antiquity about them and achieve all that the story set out to  do but did not.<br />Saramago is a world class writer.  That cannot be denied.   The fact that The Tale of the Unknown Island failed to make the grade is a  flaw as tiny and insignificant as is the book itself.	2000-07-31
2346209:US	50718004	R2J1ENWIB5FSW	0679751343	457276000	Angels & Insects: Two Novellas	Books	4	39	42	N	N	A Slowly Paced Ballet of Parallels	Shimmering beauty and shocking sensuality are the only phrases to adequately describe A.S. Byatt's Angels and Insects.<br />Although this novella really encompasses two distinct stories, my comments focus on  Morpho Eugenia, my favorite of the two, and, in my opinion, by far the  superior.<br />Set more than a century ago, in Victorian England, Angels and  Insects (Morpho Eugenia) follows the life of William Adamson, a naturalist  who has spent years of research in the jungles of South America.<br />A  shipwreck sends him to the home of his benefactor, the Reverend Harald  Alabaster, an amateur insect collector of enormous wealth.<br />Upon arriving  at Alabaster's sumptuous country estate, poor William instantly falls in  love with Alabaster's eldest daughter, Eugenia, a weak and wan, but still  golden, beauty.<br />Although Eugenia appears to be out of his reach, William  embarks upon a shy courtship and is more than a little surprised when his  proposal of marriage is accepted.  And, on their wedding night, the usually  distant, aloof and somewhat mysterious Eugenia has even more surprises in  store.  Surprises William soon comes to savor.<br />Complicating matters is  Eugenia's brother, a socially misfit snob who takes an instant dislike to  William and talks incessantly of children who grow up sans the proper  breeding...breeding poor William's genes cannot provide, of  course.<br />Eugenia, herself, soon begins to show a darker side as her mood  swings from lustful to ravenous to passionate to melancholy.  Feeling a bit  over his head in this baronial estate, William begins to experience  somewhat of an attraction to his drab and dull, but very intelligent,  assistant.<br />Angels and Insects is a fascinating book and, as always, Byatt  lets us become intimately involved with her characters.<br />The real triumph  though, lies in the book's symbolism.  The Victorians were fascinated with  the insect world and Byatt uses this fascination to refect the social order  of the times:  the women are doted on by servants as if they were queen  bees and colonies of ants mirror the red and black jackets worn during a  fox hunt.<br />Angels and Insects takes a fascinatingly intimate look at the  quirkiest of families, one whose secrets and prejudices simply cannot be  dismissed.<br />It is William's drab assistant who sums up the book's theme.   &quot;There are three kinds of people in this house:  the visible, the  invisible and the in between.&quot;  Angels and Insects is a lyrically  sensual portrait of the fascinating world of the in between.	2000-07-30
2346833:US	50718004	R2UVKMVRB349C7	0679735909	627682796	Possession	Books	4	125	131	N	N	A Love Story That Is and A Romance That Could Have Been	Possession, labeled a romance, is certainly that.  But it is also much, much more.  The book is a tremendous undertaking of style and verve, a romance on two levels, and a bizarre detective story all rolled into  one.<br />The main characters of Possesion are Roland Michell, a true academic  and Maud Bailey, a researcher, but the stars of the book are really the  long-dead R.H. Ash and Christabel LaMotte.<br />In Possession, Byatt gives  much attention to minor detail.  In fact, her detailing is so subtle that  many nuances may be missed on a first reading.<br />Byatt's writing is  beautiful and filled with simple, descriptive language and gorgeous  imagery.  The majority of the story is rich in both metaphor and allusion,  with the following passage being a prime example:  &quot;One night they  fell asleep, side by side, on Maud's bed, where they had been sharing a  glass of Calvados.  He slept curled against her back, a dark comma against  her pale elegant phrase.&quot;<br />Most of the chapters in Possession begin  with a fictitious work by Ash or LaMotte, but Byatt has not only written  them well, she has fashioned each so that it is in keeping with the  character of its fictitious author.<br />Ash and LaMotte are both of the  Romantic period, yet Ash is more open and free than is LaMotte, who writes  with obvious rhyme and rhythm.  It is this--Byatt's ability to create so  many different writing styles for each of her characters and fit them to  the character so perfectly, that makes Possession come to life for the  reader.<br />Possession is not a straightforward narrative, however.  Much of  the story is told through the letters of Ash and LaMotte, again,  beautifully crafted by Byatt. It is through their letters that we really  get to know Ash and LaMotte as well as Roland and Maud.  The knowledge  gained in the past relationship between Ash and LaMotte allows the  present-day relationship between Roland and Maud to come to  life.<br />Possession is a storyof lost romantic love and, as such, it may  seem, at first glance, to be just another trite book on a trite and  overly-written subject.  Nothing could be further from the truth.  Byatt  has conferred a freshness of outlook on Possession that makes it unlike any  other novel of failed romance and love gone wrong.<br />Roland and Maud are,  without a doubt, two quite ordinary people.  But Byatt has given them  something quite extraordinary to do.  These two would-be lovers are  actually on a quest, and their lives, as well as their love, seem to mirror  and parallel Ash and LaMotte's in more ways than one.<br />But all is  certainly not smooth sailing for Roland and Maud.  Roland has Val, his  live-in lover to deal with and Val, unlike many an &quot;unwanted&quot;  lover is not a woman to be summarily dismissed.<br />What really makes  Possession sparkle and sets it apart from any other typical romance is the  connection Roland and Maud have to the past and to Ash and LaMotte.  This  adds a mystical, almost surreal, quality to the story that could have so  easily turned maudlin in the hands of a writer less talented than Byatt.   Byatt, however, intertwines past and present with perfection and keeps the  reader spellbound with the suspension of disbelief.<br />A few passages  containing expletives seem out of place in this otherwise dazzling novel  and really seem beneath the obvious talent and ability of a first-class  writer like Byatt.<br />Byatt has titled her novel perfectly.  The word,  &quot;possession,&quot; crops out several times throughout the story:  the  possession of the stolen letters, the possession of the lovers to each  other, the possession of the past to the present.  Byatt obviously began  working with the motif of possession in mind.<br />While certainly not of the  romance genre, Possession contains enough romance to satisfy even the most  voracious.  The characters are creations of tremendous depth and we find it  easy to love them or hate them or pity them, but never dismiss them.<br />The  intertwining plots work on many levels and work so well that many readers  will often find themselves wondering if the story is purely fiction or  based in reality.<br />Finally, the beautiful writing captures and holds the  reader's attention and adds to the fantasy that is unfolding.  Although  some readers might find the many letters and poems contained in this book  distracting, they do enrich the story and lend a depth that would  definitely be lost had Byatt failed to included them.<br />A finely-crafted  novel of parallel lives and parallel loves, Possession is, for the most  part, a lyrical look, not at what really was, but what so easily could have  been.	2000-07-30
2349120:US	50718004	R3JU7G1TDAU1U6	0452280621	675572194	Beloved	Books	5	60	71	N	N	The Power of One Mother's Love	What kind of mother would deliberately cause the destruction of her own beloved child?  This is the question Pulitzer and Nobel Prize winner (and probably the greatest woman novelist of the twentieth century), Toni  Morrison, explores in her rich, densely-layered novel, Beloved.<br />Set after  the end of the Civil War, when slaves were freed by emancipation, but still  victims of random acts of violence, the book also serves as a metaphor for  the legacy of slavery and asks the chillingly relevant question:  Why is  the leading cause of death among young, African-American men murder by  another black?<br />Beloved's protagonist is Sethe, an escaped slave and  mother of four.  Her joy at successfully escaping her former master while  pregnant and giving birth before finally finding refuge at her  spiritually-nourishing mother-in-law's home, vanishes a mere twenty-eight  days later.<br />The sight of a cruel white slave owner's hat sends Sethe and  her children running to a woodshed where she is forced to confront demons  no loving mother should ever have to face.<br />Sethe's demons do not  disappear when she emerges from the woodshed, however, and settles down in  a small Ohio town.  Instead, they remain to both haunt her and help her to  understand the violence that occurred so many years previously.<br />Morrison,  as skillful a storyteller as ever lived, spins a gorgeously heartbreaking  tale in Beloved, and one whose plot is impossible to predict.  With a  mastery of language given to only a few, this extraordinarily talented  author weaves subplot upon subplot and brings each exquisitely created  character to life.<br />There is Paul D, another slave who escaped from the  same plantation as did Sethe but who has not seen Sethe for more than a  decade when he once again encounters her and the two of them contemplate  what they hope will finally be a bright future for both.<br />There is Denver,  Sethe's daughter, a troubled and isolated teenager whose life encompasses  little more than her immediate surroundings and whose social interactions  have dwindled down to embrace only her mother and the ghost of her  long-dead sister.<br />And then, there is Beloved, the centerpiece of this  exquisitely wirtten, lyrically beautiful book.<br />While Sethe appears to  embrace a logic that says, &quot;Before the while man destroys you, let me  do it,&quot; Morrison, herself, tells us that it is time for us to look  beyond the past and move on.<br />Today, more than twenty years after the  passage of the Civil Rights Act, African Americans are, in many ways, worse  off than they were before.  The question plaguing most black Americans  seems to be whether to cast their lot with the whites of the community or  to separate, turn inward and seek their own redemption...alone.<br />In  Beloved, Morrison uses the character of Ella, one of the leaders of her  small Ohio community, to metaphorically explore this issue.  &quot;Whatever  Sethe had done, Ella didn't like the idea of past errors taking possession  of the present...Daily life took as much as she had.  The future was  sunset; the past was something to leave behind.  And if it didn't stay  behind, well, you might have to stomp it out.  Slave life; freed life;  every day was a test and trial.  Nothing could be counted on in a world  where even when you were a solution you were a problem. 'Sufficient unto  the day is the evil thereof,' and nobody needed more; nobody needed a grown  up evil sitting at the table with a grudge.  As long as the ghost showed  out from its ghostly place, shaking stuff, crying, smashing and such--Ella  respected it.  But if it took flesh and came in her world, well, the shoe  was on the other foot.  She didn't mind a little communication between the  two worlds, but this was an invasion.&quot;<br />Beloved is first and foremost  a brilliantly crafted and mesmerizing story, faultlessly told by one of the  world's most gifted storytellers.  It is a story of ghosts--those that  haunt Sethe and those that haunt all of us.  Beloved is not magic realism,  nor does it contain elements of magic realism.  Magic realism, by its very  nature, requires that the fantastic be accepted as mundane by those  experiencing it.  There is certainly nothing mundane about Morrison's ghost  and her acceptance by Sethe.<br />Although most of the novel's characters  ostracize Sethe and blame her for her past, Morrison, herself, does not.  Instead, she wisely extends a vision of harmony to the black community that  exhorts them to let go of their past, no matter how painful, and move  ahead.<br />Beloved and Sethe must, eventually, come to terms with the past  and with each other, just as the community must come to terms with  itself.<br />In the end, Beloved's protagonists decide on different paths to  follow, some of which are quite surprising, although always  heart-rending.<br />Morrison, however, remains true to the vision she created  in Beloved:  those who cannot let go of the past will ultimately  self-destruct; those who can respect its lessons and mourn its loss but not  feel indebted to right its wrongs, will find themselves endowed with  unexpected, joyous freedom.hosts--those that  haunt Sethe and those that haunt all of us.  Beloved is not magic realism,  nor does it contain elements of magic realism.  Magic realism, by its very  nature, requires that the fantastic be accepted as mundane by those  experiencing it.  There is certainly nothing mundane about Morrison's ghost  and her acceptance by Sethe.<br />Although most of the novel's characters  ostracize Sethe and blame her for her past, Morrison, herself, does not.   Instead, she wisely extends a vision of harmony to the black community that  exhorts them to let go of their past, no matter how painful, and move  ahead.<br />Beloved and Sethe must, eventually, come to terms with the past  and with each other, just as the community must come to terms with  itself.<br />In the end, Beloved's protagonists decide on different paths to  follow, some of which are quite surprising, although always  heart-rending.<br />Morrison, however, remains true to the vision she created  in Beloved:  those who cannot let go of the past will ultimately  self-destruct; those who can respect its lessons and mourn its loss but not  feel indebted to right its wrongs, will find themselves endowed with  unexpected, joyous freedom.	2000-07-28
2350099:US	50718004	R21Z7BQZGIVZ63	0679600795	289712823	Anna Karenina	Books	5	371	395	N	N	The Eternal Error	According to Tolstoy, the genesis of Anna Karenina was derived from three specific events:  (1)  An idea for a story Tolstoy developed in 1870 about a woman who deserts her husband for another man, based, in part, on the  life of his sister, Marya; (2)  a newspaper story concerning the mistress  of one of Tolstoy's neighbors, who, feeling only despair at being abandoned  by her lover, hurled herself under a train; and (3)  a sentence from  Pushkin's Tales of the Balkins (&quot;The guests were arriving at the  country house...&quot;), that Tolstoy read by chance one day in 1873.  Supposedly, this sentence from Pushkin fueled Tolstoy's imagination to such  a degree that he completed a first draft of Anna Karenina in only three  weeks.<br />A novel about the meaning of life and the role happiness does or  does not play in it, Anna Karenina is the story of a married woman's  adulterous affair with Count Vronsky.  As foreshadowed in the book's early  pages, the affair ends tragically, for both Anna and Vronsky.<br />The novel  (which Tolstoy's contemporary, Dostoyevsky, considered &quot;a perfect work  of art&quot;), also tells the story of Constantine Levin, a gentleman  farmer whose lifelong pursuit of happiness and fulfillment culminates, not  in his long-awaited marriage to Kitty Shcherbatskaya, but with the advice  of a simple peasant about &quot;living rightly, in God's way.&quot;<br />From  a few simple, yet melodramatic events (and the depths of a dizzyingly  fecund imagination), Tolstoy fashioned a beautiful, profound and enduring  novel dealing with stark questions of both life and religious faith as seen  through the eyes of the farmer, Levin.  Also a morality play, Anna Karenina  delves deeply into the damaging effects of society's ostracization,  especially regarding the characters of Anna and Vronsky.<br />Many consider  Anna Karenina Tolstoy's most personal work and, indeed, many of the novel's  scenes do mirror Tolstoy's relationship with his own wife, Sonya.  Levin's  courtship of Kitty and his expressions of love for her, written with chalk  on a table are reflective of Tolstoy's courtship of Sonya.  Even more  evocative of Tolstoy, himself, is the soul-wrenching scene in which Levin  gives Kitty his diaries to read, exposing his very soul to the woman he has  come to love so completely.<br />The final scenes of the novel, especially  Levin's intense search for the answer to the meaning of existence are  reflective of Tolstoy's own search, dramatically documented in his  beautiful memoir, A Confession, and considered by many to be one of the  most truthful, agonizing and soul-searching statements of authentic  spirituality.<br />The publication of Anna Karenina coincided with the end of  Tolstoy's life of material and emotional luxury.  From this point on, he  concentrated on a deeper and more mature quest.  Although he would go on to  write the beautiful novel, Resurrection, and The Death of Ivan Ilyich, a  true existential masterpiece, Tolstoy's career reached its zenith in the  character of Anna Karenina and her seemingly irrational embrace of death.  Anna's husband, Karenin, is often overlooked, although he is equally  compelling; a complex and emotional character who briefly embraces the  doctrine of Christian forgiveness in his emotional denial over the loss of  Anna.<br />No doubt the second most famous line of the book is Vronsky's  startling realization:  &quot;It showed him (Vronsky) the eternal error men  make in imagining that happiness consists in the realization of their  desires.&quot;<br />Almost epic in scope and poignantly detailed, Anna  Karenina represents the perfect balance of drama, morality and  philosophical inquiry.  How are we to live our lives, the novel asks, when  all the illusions we hold so close to our heart have been stripped away?  What are we to believe in and cling to?<br />With its emphasis on drama over  polemic, Anna Karenina thus embodies art of the highest order.  In itsportrayal of man's timeless struggle to make sense out of life while coming  to terms with death, both its theme and its characters remain, now and  forever, timeless.its  portrayal of man's timeless struggle to make sense out of life while coming  to terms with death, both its theme and its characters remain, now and  forever, timeless.	2000-07-27
2351743:US	50718004	R28DTGN6IB286Y	0140441840	7474548	Resurrection (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	55	59	N	N	Art In It's Purest Form	When the prostitute Maslova stands accused of murder, Prince Nekhlyudov must serve on the jury at her trial.  He recognizes Maslova as the innocent young girl he, himself, once loved, seduced and then, cruelly abandoned.   What follows is a mature panorama of Russian life, shot through with  spiritual intensity.<br />The chief themes of Resurrection are the basic  themes inherent in all art:  love, passion and death, but Tolstoy treats  them with such a burning sincerity and unique vitality that they seem  almost as fresh and pure as newly fallen snow.<br />Resurrection is the great  imaginative synthesis of Tolstoyism, ripe with the fruits of a lifetime of  agony and questioning.  In Resurrection, Tolstoy takes aim at the  underworld of nineteenth-century Russian life:  the legal and penal systems  and, above all, the Church.<br />In the central figure of Nekhlyudov, Tolstoy  has created the last of his great self-portraits.  In Nekhlyudov he  expresses his own deepest aspirations, his own views on every aspect of  human existence.<br />The theme of this book is not new to Tolstoy.  The  fallen man and his decidedly non-Christian process of regeneration has been  explored by this author before, but this time he presents it in an entirely  different perspective.<br />In Resurrection, Tolstoy sets out to produce the  artistic rendition of the resurrection of a fallen man.  Since he, himself,  does not recognize the Christian concept of resurrection, it is  Nekhlyudov's regeneration that he describes instead.<br />Nekhlyudov's life,  however, had been one long regeneration after another.  Inherited wealth  has enabled him to change one lifestyle for another the minute one set of  ideals was supplanted by another.  A diletannte extraordinaire,  Nekhlyudov's life is akin to an unfinished painting, so that when he  recognizes Maslova in the witness box he is ripe for another &quot;purging  of the soul,&quot; as he terms his periodic reappraisals.<br />And, each time,  Nekhlyudov, charts his new course in life with &quot;tears of tender  emotion at his own goodness,&quot; and vows that this course and this  course only, is the one and only true direction in life.<br />Superficially,  the Nekhlyudov's of this world are the ones who are perceived to care for  their fellow men, grieve with them and right their wrongs.  However, when  their mood changes and one inspiration is replaced with something new, all  that they had sympathized with is easily forgotten and no longer affects  them.  This is pointed out beautifully in Resurrection when Maslova,  recognizing Nekhlyudov's superficiality, refuses to take advantage of the  pardon obtained for her; she would rather marry Simonson and follow him to  the mines.<br />Nekhlyudov is so thoroughly preoccupied with the search for a  new &quot;cause&quot; that the sight of several hundred prisoners suffering  in their cells, the dead body of a consumptive to whom he had grown  &quot;particularly fond,&quot; and other horrors straight out of Dante's  Inferno, fail to even make an impression on him.  He doesn't even wonder  how Maslova will survive the punishment she does not deserve and of which  he, himself, is the cause.<br />The technique employed in Resurrection equals  Tolstoy's great epics (including Anna Karenina and War and Peace) but  actually covers more ground since the essence of a lifetime of suffering  and thought and spiritual change is packed into its pages.<br />Tolstoy's  concern in Resurrection is with the &quot;grave, noble face of truth,&quot;  and he compels us to look at what is bad in society and attempts to inflict  upon us the desire to make the necessary improvements.<br />The same exuberant  writing style employed in War and Peace thirty years earlier can be seen in  Resurrection, however, there is one great difference.  Where Tolstoy's  earlier novels shifted their focus from one hero to the other, Resurrection  follows Nekhlyudov step by step, barely letting him outof its sight.   Other characters have validity only in so far as they affect the  protagonist.<br />From a psychological standpoint, Resurrection is perfect.   In order to know a character, Tolstoy studies him in all his aspects.  We  see, not a moment in time, but the accumulated expression of an entire  lifetime.  The most clear-seeing of all writers, Tolstoy's genius allows us  to see not only an overview but the minute manifestations that make up  everyday life:  the ill-fitting clothes of a peasant, the crooked limp, the  squinting eyes.  His vision, as always, goes beyond the ordinary to  encompass the transcendent.<br />Resurrection is the perfect title for any  book dealing with Russian life.  The Russian Christian, more than any  other, has been preoccupied with the search for, and the idea of,  immortality.  For the Russian mystic (and most Russians contain something  of the mystic) morals are thoroughly grounded in the faith in eternal  life.<br />In Resurrection, Tolstoy voices his own conflicts with the Church,  conflicts that he numbered as being among the most bitter in his life as he  searched for the source of absolute truth.  He confined his quest to the  ethical plane, however, and when confronted with resurrection or death, he,  of course, chose death, having been formally excommunicated from the Church  by a decree dated 22 February 1901.<br />Resurrection is the expression of a  mature Tolstoy, one whose search allowed him no indifference, no sparing of  himself.  As such, it is a book that transcends mere literary masterpiece  and aspires to something higher.  Something most people would term art is  its purest form.	2000-07-26
2352090:US	50718004	R31M290O3M6C1G	0679720219	764255828	The Plague	Books	5	104	121	N	N	Healing Amidst Death	&quot;The town itself, let us admit, is ugly.&quot;  So says Dr. Bernard Rieux, the narrator of Albert Camus', The Plague.<br />The Plague takes place in Oran, a small Mediterranean town in North Africa.  Not only does Dr.  Rieux find Oran ugly, he find its inhabitants boring people with little  involvement in the actual business of living.<br />One day, Rieux steps on a  dead rat, then another and another.  Soon, he sees them everywhere,  littered among the bloated corpses of Oran's inhabitants.  Rieux and the  Oranians ignore the problem at first, blaming the sanitation bureau for  neglecting its duties.  However, they soon discover that the dead and dying  have a far more sinister tale to tell.<br />Although Rieux is the narrator of  The Plague, several other main characters do exist.  Jean Tarrou is a  hapless man who has the misfortune of wandering into Oran during the  plague.  He quickly becomes a friend of Rieux's and his chronicles of  Oran's ordeal appear throughout the book.  Raymon Rambert is a French  journalist who simply ends up in Oran during the time of the plague.  Although longing to return to his beautiful wife in Paris, Rambert is  forced to remain in Oran.  Jospeh Grand is a writer eking out an existence  in Oran as he attempts to write the perfect book, while Cottard is a  prisoner who is using Oran to hide from the officials who want to execute  him.<br />Oran is quarantined and its citizens must find various ways of  dealing with this catastrophe.  Some simply accept the inevitable and wait  for the disease to strike while others turn a blind eye in the hope that if  they do not see the plague, the plague will not see them.<br />One problem,  however, affects all of the town's inhabitants--money.  For the first time,  Oran's port is closed.  They cannot buy nor can they sell.  They struggle  to survive on their own with little fresh food and basic medical supplies.  Only Cottard is happy, because while Oran is under quarantine, Cottard can  consider his dismal life spared.<br />As the situation in Oran worsens, and  little can be done, Father Paneloux, the town's priest, tells its  inhabitants that the plague has come to punish the sinners of Oran and  further tells his congregation that the plague will cease upon the town's  repentance of its sins.<br />After a long and forceful sermon by Paneloux, the  town does, indeed, change.  Grand begins to have problems writing even one  sentence containing a conjunction.  He trembles, mutters, gulps and  exhibits other qualities of a man on the edge.  Rambert attempts to escape  to France, first legally, then, when that fails, illegally.  The two men  finally calm themselves and join Rieux and Tarrou in their dedication to  overcoming the plague.  Paneloux, himself, finally joins in these efforts.  Strangely, the plague, which has come to kill, has served in uniting men of  different beliefs and visions in one life-affirming quest.<br />Once Oran  becomes united, the plague begins to level off.  Another victim dies,  however.  Father Paneloux becomes ill after witnessing the slow and  agonizing death of Jacques Othon, a young, innocent boy.  Chastised,  Paneloux retracts his earlier, sophomoric message and decides that the  plague is part of a plan that must be accepted.<br />As the survivors  celebrate, the plague claims one last victim, the man who was its greatest  enemy.  While this man's life is gone, the others who have battled the  plague find their lives forever changed.<br />The very first chapter of The  Plague is short but filled with immense foreshadowing and extensive  descriptive passages.<br />We find it easy to see why Oran becomes such an  easy target for death and disease.  Oran is not only ugly and ordinary, it  is built so that its back is turned to the sea.  In fact, the changing  seasons in Oran, says Rieux, must be discriminated in the sky, for the town  is an unrelieved monotony of grayness and its inhabitants are already  living on thefringes of life.<br />Ignoring the simple pleasures of life,  Oranians are nevertheless hard workers, but ones for whom money has no  meaning beyond its mere possession.  Love, too, is foreign to the citizens  of Oran.  They marry and have children but the concept of love for love's  sake is unknown to them.  Their very inauthenticity and narrow views make  them prime targets for the plague and when confronted with it, they have  precious few resources for dealing with the calamities it presents.<br />The  greatest piece of foreshadowing, however, and the one that sets the book's  theme is the sense of alienation and entrapment.  Both the living and the  dead remain trapped behind the walls of Oran.  Freedom, truth and beauty  all lie within a stone's throw, but, until the plague forces them to look,  the Oranians remain blind to the beauties of the world outside.<br />The  message of Oran is as clear as the sea that sparkles within reach of its  walls.  Beauty and truth are always ours for the taking.  If we choose,  however, to turn our backs on the riches that are ours, disease and death  await us and only the luckiest among us will survive.n the fringes of life.<br />Ignoring the simple pleasures of life,  Oranians are nevertheless hard workers, but ones for whom money has no  meaning beyond its mere possession.  Love, too, is foreign to the citizens  of Oran.  They marry and have children but the concept of love for love's  sake is unknown to them.  Their very inauthenticity and narrow views make  them prime targets for the plague and when confronted with it, they have  precious few resources for dealing with the calamities it presents.<br />The  greatest piece of foreshadowing, however, and the one that sets the book's  theme is the sense of alienation and entrapment.  Both the living and the  dead remain trapped behind the walls of Oran.  Freedom, truth and beauty  all lie within a stone's throw, but, until the plague forces them to look,  the Oranians remain blind to the beauties of the world outside.<br />The  message of Oran is as clear as the sea that sparkles within reach of its  walls.  Beauty and truth are always ours for the taking.  If we choose,  however, to turn our backs on the riches that are ours, disease and death  await us and only the luckiest among us will survive.	2000-07-26
2353710:US	50718004	R399IFK0J00DWH	0679746633	346903693	Kangaroo Notebook: A Novel	Books	5	32	34	N	N	A Dream World Just This Side of Madness	&quot;Which situation should I declare 'real' and which one a 'dream?'&quot;  This is the question that plagues the narrator of Kobo Abe's Kangaroo Notebook, the last novel written before his death in 1993.   We can consider ourselves lucky, indeed, that one of the world's most  distinguished novelists left us with this surreal and unique vision of  Japanese society that is both disturbingly fearful and hilariously  funny.<br />On a morning that should have turned out like any other morning,  the first person narrator of Kangaroo Notebook awakens to find radish  sprouts growing out of his shins.  Although his doctor in repulsed, the  narrator finds he now possesses the strange and unique ability to snack  on...himself.<br />An eerie adventure to rid himself of his malady takes the  book's protagonist into an increasingly hostile and mysterious world, one  that in turn, is surreal, playful and almost unassailably enigmatic.<br />The  plot is a weird and wild ride to say the least.  Unlike Kafka's narrator in  Metamorphosis, our slowly unraveling protagonist checks into a dermatology  clinic and soon finds himself hurtling on a hospital bed to the very brink  of hell.<br />An attractive nurse, known only as Damselfly, straps him to a  hospital bed and begins to administer huge quantities of unknown drugs.  A  short time later, still strapped to this hospital bed, still hooked up to  his IV and still suffering from his mysterious malady, our protagonist is  summarily discharged.<br />A cast of spooky characters is then introduced via  visits to a glitzy department store, a cabbage field that serves as the  final resting place of the narrator's dead mother and Damselfly's own  apartment.<br />One of those characters, the hirsute Mister Hammer Killer, an  American karate expert, has such a love of violence that our narrator once  again finds himself confined to a hospital.  <br />His situation only worsens  with the arrival of the &quot;Help Me! Club,&quot; a club whosemembers  consist solely of demonic chanting children.<br />The sexy Damselfly, herself,  turns out to be a bit of a vampire.  Her quest to collect enough blood to  win the &quot;Dracula's Daughter&quot; medal is nothing short of  relentless.  Despite these bizarre plot twists and turns, the finale of  Kangaroo Notebook is undeniably perfect and, almost surrealistically, makes  perfect sense.<br />Abe's typical protagonist is an &quot;outsider&quot; who  is haunted by a sense of alienation and anxiety over the fragility of  individual identity.  Although seeking relief from society's pressure to  conform, he still yearns for communal emotional connection.  <br />These  universal themes, combined with an ironic, satiric and often bizarre manner  of expression, have led many to assume that Abe's writing bears a closer  resemblance to Western writers, Kafka, in particular, than to traditional  Japanese literary models.  Yet Abe's fiction reflects his strong Japanese  heritage in its vividly imagistic prose, its abundant incorporation of  Japanese cultural icons and its satirical treatment of Japanese  psychosocial dynamics.<br />Kangaroo Notebook is one of Abe's signature  triumphs.  He deftly uses a swiftly-moving barrage of morbidly fascinating  images, characters and places to reflect cleverly-disguised, but recurring  themes, and he balances hysterical humor with deadpan lines, such as,  &quot;Something's really odd.&quot;  Sure, we think.  You don't  say.<br />Surrealistic fiction is so often not given its due since the bizarre  and original happenings must, of necessity, supplant traditional storyline  and character development, thus distancing readers emotionally.  But for  those readers who have achieved intellectual maturity and originality of  thought, surrealistic fiction offers insights surely lacking in more  mainstream works.<br />In Kangaroo Notebook, Kobo Abe takes us on a masterful,  dizzyingly original romp to the razor-thin line between life and death, a  theme-park of his own life and art.	2000-07-25
2359427:US	50718004	RTLG8BHPCNJY1	0316769487	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	5	1585	1737	N	N	A Brilliantly Unique Look at a Universal Problem	In J.D. Salinger's brilliant coming-of-age novel, Holden Caulfield, a seventeen year old prep school adolescent relates his lonely, life-changing twenty-four hour stay in New York City as he experiences the phoniness of  the adult world while attempting to deal with the death of his younger  brother, an overwhelming compulsion to lie and troubling sexual  experiences.<br />Salinger, whose characters are among the best and most  developed in all of literature has captured the eternal angst of growing  into adulthood in the person of Holden Caulfield.  Anyone who has reached  the age of sixteen will be able to identify with this unique and yet  universal character, for Holden contains bits and pieces of all of us.  It  is for this very reason that The Catcher in the Rye has become one of the  most beloved and enduring works in world literature.<br />As always,  Salinger's writing is so brilliant, his characters so real, that he need  not employ artifice of any kind.  This is a study of the complex problems  haunting all adolescents as they mature into adulthood and Salinger wisely  chooses to keep his narrative and prose straightforward and simple.<br />This  is not to say that The Catcher in the Rye is a straightforward and simple  book.  It is anything but.  In it we are privy to Salinger's genius and  originality in portraying universal problems in a unique manner.  The  Catcher in the Rye is a book that can be loved and understood on many  different levels of comprehension and each reader who experiences it will  come away with a fresh view of the world in which they live.<br />A work of  true genius, images of a catcher in the rye are abundantly apparent  throughout this book.<br />While analyzing the city raging about him, Holden's  attention is captured by a child walking in the street &quot;singing and  humming.&quot;  Realizing that the child is singing the familiar refrain,  &quot;If a body meet a body, comin' through the rye,&quot; Holden, himself,  says that he feels &quot;not so depressed.&quot;<br />The title's words,  however, are more than just a pretty ditty that Holden happens to like.  In  the stroke of pure genius that is Salinger, himself, he wisely sums up the  book's theme in its title.<br />When Holden, whose past has been traumatic, to  say the least, is questioned by his younger sister, Phoebe, regarding what  he would like to do when he gets older, Holden replies, &quot;Anyway, I  keep picturing all these little kids playing some game in this big field of  rye and all.  Thousands of little kids, and nobody's around--nobody big, I  mean--except me.  And I'm standing on the edge of some crazy cliff.  What I  have to do, I have to catch everybody if they start to go over the cliff--I  mean if they're running and they don't look where they're going.  I have to  come out from somewhere and catch them.  That's all I'd do all day.  I'd  just be the catcher in the rye and all.  I know it's crazy, but that's the  only thing I'd really like to be.&quot;<br />In this short bit of dialogue  Salinger brilliantly exposes Holden's deepest desire and expounds the  book's theme.  Holden wishes to preserve something of childhood innocence  that gets hopelessly lost as we grow into the crazy and phony world of  adulthood.<br />The theme of lost innocence is deftly explored by Salinger  throughout the book.  Holden is appalled when he encounters profanity  scrawled on the walls of Phoebe's school, a school that he envisions  protecting and shielding children from the evils of society.<br />When Holden  gives his red hunting cap to Phoebe to wear, he gives it to her as a  shield, an emblem of the eternal love and protectiveness he feels for  her.<br />Near the beginning of the book, Holden remembers a girl he once  knew, Jane Gallagher, with whom he played checkers.  Jane, he remembers,  &quot;wouldn't move any of her kings,&quot; and action Holden realizes to  be a metaphor of her naivete.  When Holden hears that his sexually  experienced prep school roommate had a date with Jane, he immediately  starts a fight with him, symbolically protecting Jane's innocence.<br />More  sophisticated readers might question the reasons behind Holden's plight.   While Holden's feelings are universal, this character does seem to be a  rather extreme example.  The catalyst for Holden's desires is no doubt the  death of his younger brother, Allie, a bright and loving boy who died of  leukemia at the age of thirteen.  Holden still feels the sting of Allie's  death acutely, as well as his own, albeit undeserved, guilt, in being able  to do nothing to prevent Allie's suffering.  <br />The only reminder Holden  has of Allie's shining but all-too-short life, is Allie's baseball mitt  which is covered with poems Allie read while standing in the outfield.  In  a particularly poignant moment, Holden tells us that this is the glove he  would want to use to catch children when they fall from the cliff of  innocence.<br />In an interesting, but trademark, Salinger twist, Holden  distorts the Robert Burns poem that provides the book's title.  Originally,  it read, &quot;If a body meet a body, comin' through the rye.&quot;  Holden  distorts the word &quot;meet&quot; into &quot;catch.&quot;  This is  certainly not the first time Holden is guilty of distortion; indeed he is a  master at it.<br />This distortion, however, shows us how much Allie's death  has affected Holden and also how much he fears his own fall from innocence,  the theme that threads its way throughout the whole of the book.<br />By this  amazing book's end, we must reach the conclusion that there are times when  we all need a &quot;catcher in the rye.&quot;  We are, indeed, blessed if  we have one.	2000-07-21
2361457:US	50718004	R1SBQONSKC2AT8	0140440046	295639784	Candide: Or Optimism (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	33	38	N	N	Satire That Endures	&quot;All is for the best...in the best of all possible worlds.&quot;<br />Utopia generally conjures up images of beauty, brilliance and harmony.  How is it possible to conceive of the violent and brutal  happenings in Candide as &quot;the best of all possible worlds?&quot;  Our  world is clearly not perfect, so isn't it more logical to conclude that all  is not for the best?  At least not all of the time?  Such are the questions  raised in Voltaire's timeless masterpiece of satire, Candide.<br />Candide  tells the journey of a young man through the world and the realities he  must face, deal with and eventually come to be defined by.  During his  ventures, Candide leaves behind the naive innocence of his childhood and  assumes the status of an intelligent and distinguished man.<br />Candide was  born and grew up in the castle of the Baron of Thunder-ten-tronckh, in the  land of Westphalia in Germany.  Soon after his mentor, the philosopher, Dr.  Pangloss introduces him to the idea of extreme optimism, Candide's  adventures begin as he is banned from the kingdom for kissing the Baron's  beautiful daughter, Lady Cunegund.<br />As Candide travels through Germany,  Holland, the New World and the remainder of Europe, he encounters trials  and evils of every sort--war, hatred, betrayal, starvation, natural  catastrophes of all kinds, in short, any and every evil to which man has  ever fallen prey.<br />In the course of his travails, however, one thing  becomes outstandingly familiar to Candide; the parallels of events that  denote the universality of evil.<br />Finally, coming full circle, Candide  settles down to cultivate his own garden and make the best of his own  possible world.<br />As with most satire, the characters in Candide exist for  one unique purpose rather than being fully fleshed out.  Dr. Pangloss is  the most notable.  Pangloss is not present in most of Candide's adventures  but he does provide the theme underlying the whole of the book.  He serves  tosway Candide with his one, unrelenting optimistic outlook on life.<br />The  epitome of Pangloss's philosophical outlook, &quot;Everything is for the  best,&quot; is assimilated by Candide very early in the story.  Being  young, sheltered and naive at the time, Candide proceeds to live his life  according to this tenet.  When faced with a problem he always asks himself  what Pangloss would do or say in a similar situation.  <br />Candide, however,  eventually learns to form his own opinions and concepts and thus the  philosophical optimism of Dr. Pangloss is tested and challenged throughout  the book.<br />The &quot;Pangloss Effect&quot; is also demonstrated through  Candide's experience in El Dorado, Voltaire's fictional utopia.  Candide,  traveling with Cacambo, his servant, finally discovers El Dorado, the  purported &quot;perfect&quot; place. Why would anyone ever want to leave  this perfect place, Candide asks himself?  His quest had been to prove the  theory of optimism of Pangloss and now apparently, he had succeeded.   However, all is not what it may seem, even in El Dorado, and Candide is  confronted with many ironic and enigmatic questions.<br />As his journeys draw  to a close, Candide comes to realize that it is man's almost limitless  ability to accept the fate that befalls him and move on to new and better  things that allows him to remain sane, happy and productive.  In this  sense, Candide comes to represent change and development while Pangloss  remains the apex of the unchanging and inflexible.<br />While most satire  grows stale and dated, Candide remains as fresh as it was when Voltaire  wrote it.  In the end, as Candide wisely shows us, in the best of all  possible worlds, we all tend our gardens as best as we possibly can.	2000-07-20
2363141:US	50718004	R34P15EYB1T7YX	067084134X	855770597	Ravelstein	Books	5	50	54	N	N	Vintage Bellow But Maybe Even Better	Dying of AIDS, internationally renowned professor, Abe Ravelstein commissions his friend, Chick, to write his biography in the form of a memoir.<br />A bold and brash novel, Ravelstein is reminiscent of Humboldt's  Gift; each contains an admiring narrator and each is based on actual  persons in Bellow's life.<br />Ravelstein, however, is more of an extravert  than is Humboldt, becoming almost a comic figure who lives the high life on  a grand and glorious scale.  He tosses his hand-tailored clothes about with  abandon, orders lavish meals, and in general, has a passion for material  possessions while maintaining an utter disdain for money.<br />Ravelstein is  certainly a far cry from the dour figures that usually people Bellow's  novels; in fact he is just the opposite:  flamboyant, perverse, bizarre,  passionate and material.  Considering what fate has in store for him,  perhaps his personality simply adds to the overall tragedy of the  novel.<br />The other characters in Ravelstein are vintage Bellow.  The men  are removed academics, the women devouring and unreasonable.<br />It is Chick,  however, who comes to dominate the book.  A big-city, Jewish type, he is  still unprepared for his disastrous marriage to Vela, a stereotypical  Bellow female straight out of Herzog.  His second marriage, however, to  Rosamund, one of Ravelstein's former students is more successful, but since  Bellow seems averse to giving us anything resembling a fulfilling  relationship and a sympathetic female character, Rosamund remains little  more than background music.<br />Fighting demons of his own, Chick decides to  escape the pessimism surrounding Ravelstein and leaves the gloomy Chicago  winter for the sunnier climes of the Caribbean where he comes face to face  with his own mortality.<br />If one accepts Herzog as the benchmark against  which to weigh Bellow's work, then Ravelstein succeeds.  The characters  are, for the most part, larger-than-life, the mood is sufficiently  pessimistic and the setting depicted with meticulously accurate details.   The thing Ravelstein lacks are the cast of secondary figures and the  braided running subplots.  This is, however, not a criticism, and  Ravelstein is all the better for its clean and crisp  narrative.<br />Ravelstein is, at its heart, vintage Bellow, and it shows us  that this master writer has lost none of his power to observe life with  both sympathy and cool irony.  If anything, he is even better than before.	2000-07-19
2365080:US	50718004	R3I9DRSUZR9U9	0141180633	167202132	Vineland (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	54	59	N	N	A Trip Into the Past	In Vineland, Thomas Pynchon takes us back to the Reagan era of 1984 California.<br />The book begins with Zoyd Wheeler waking up on a fine summer's morning to some Froot Loops with a little Nestle's Quik on top.  Zoyd lives in Vineland County, California, a fictional, forest-filled  refuge for ageing flower children.  And Zoyd play the part of ageing flower  child to the hilt.  He is a parttime keyboard player, handyman and fulltime  marijuana grower who retains his disability benefits by jumping through  glass windows once each year on television.<br />Zoyd has become a single  parent to his teenage daughter Prairie since the mysterious disappearance  of his wife, Prairie's mother, Frenesi Gates.  A radical filmmaker during  the 60s, Frenesi allowed herself to be seduced by Brock Vond, a federal  prosecutor who was responsible for Frenesi's transformation from hippie  radical to FBI informant.<br />Two decades after Frenesi's  &quot;disappearance,&quot; Zoyd is still looking for her, as is Vond, as is  Prairie.  The plot then becomes dense and tangled with flashbacks and flash  forwards.  Much of the book is simply gross exaggeration that is fairly  preposterous and, at times, very funny.<br />Pynchon has a penchant for  working symbolic meaning into his titles.  Vineland is no exception.  Vineland is, of course, the name of the mythical California setting of the  book, but it is also the name Leif Ericsson gave to North America.  As  such, it was the name for a land untouched by human hands.<br />The exact  opposite happens to be true of 1984 California, as anyone who's ever  visited the area knows full well.  Vineland exhibits none of the  experimental prose that made Gravity's Rainbow so famous.  In fact, the  language employed in this book is flat and simple.<br />For some reason, this  flatness seems to work.  Essentially, Vineland tells the story of an  aftermath that seems inevitable when viewed in retrospect and, as such, it  is Pynchon's darkest book.<br />Pynchon celebrates the sixties but goes on to  lament their aftermath.  He celebrates America while condemning the way its  inhabitants have been destroying themselves.<br />With Vineland, Pynchon  took one step closer to hell than he did with even Gravity's Rainbow,  becoming ninety-nine percent suicide and one percent  nostalgia.<br />Vineland's one ray of hope shines in the character of Prairie,  yet even Prairie shines none too brightly.  During one of the book's most  pivotal moments the only thing she can think of to do is to sing the  Gilligan's Island theme song.<br />Vineland is Pynchon's only book dealing  with the present.  While the ludicrousness of Home Shopping, MTV and malls  have not passed unnoticed, Pynchon does see more humor than unrelieved  bleakness in the present state of America.  But he is worried, that is  plain to see.<br />While more bleak and barren than Gravity's Rainbow,  Vineland at least holds out a few rays of hope.	2000-07-18
2366482:US	50718004	R1C5ITUFYO252O	0375410538	924994086	Anil's Ghost	Books	3	61	63	N	N	An Island Paradise in Flames	Anil's Ghost is set on the island of Sri Lanka against the backdrop of the civil war turmoil of the mid-1980s and 1990s.  Here, three opposing groups battle for control:  the government, the anti-government insurgents in the  south and the separatist guerrillas in the north.<br />The book centers around  the character of Anil Tissera, a thirty-three year old Sri Lankan born  forensic anthropologist sent to her homeland as a United Nations human  rights investigator whose mission is to explore various  &quot;disappearances,&quot; i.e., murders.<br />Her government-appointed  partner is Sarath Diyasera, a forty-nine year old government representative  who gives Anil little reason to relax.  Although Sarath is capable of  reconstructing a vibrant picture of the past based on the flimsiest of  clues, his motives and alliances seem more than slightly questionable.   Sarath, however, is often misunderstood, for this is a man who understands  the moral complexities of the modern world in their historical context, who  knows what can and cannot be done and who views &quot;truth&quot; as the  ambiguous statement it is.<br />While excavating a site in a sanctuary  containing nineteenth century bones, a skeleton of recent date is  unearthed, one whose remains also appear to have been moved twice.<br />This  unidentified body is given the name, &quot;Sailor,&quot; and provides the  catalyst for Anil and Sarath's search, a search which leads to the  introduction of several engaging secondary characters:  Palipana, an  interpreter of ancient ruins, seventy-six, blind and living in a grove of  ascetics; Gamini, Sarath's younger brother, a dedicated doctor and  participant in a tragedy whose work consists of patching up the war's  innocent victims; and Ananda Udagama, a drunken miner and artist whose  skill and genius allowed him to paint the eyes of the statues of Buddha, a  ritual that brought the statue to life.<br />Ondaatje threads his way between  past and present, giving ussome stories that relate to the plot and others  that do not.  Some major plot lines and characters are dealt with far too  swiftly and summarily as Ondaatje takes off on yet another political  tangent.  At times, the characters, who aren't developed enough to form a  connection with, seem to be completely forgotten until Ondaatje suddenly  makes an abrupt turn and brings us back to the story at hand.<br />Those  expecting the lush, dense prose of The English Patient will find themselves  sorely disappointed.  Yes, the trademark Ondaatje poetic prose does remain  (though toned down) and it is gorgeous, but it is simply not enough to  sustain us in what should have been a larger, more fleshed-out  novel.<br />Anil, herself, seems out of place in this book, for she is  essentially a Westerner.  Although born in Sri Lanka, she is not of Sri  Lanka and does not share the same values and ideals as those with whom she  interacts.  Had Ondaatje concentrated only on those who had lived their  lives amid the fire and flames of this island paradise, the book would have  proven far more compelling and true.<br />The final chapter, however, is  beautiful and touching, in part because it deals not with Anil or the crime  with which she became obsessed, but with Ananda and the  spirit that is  truly Sri Lanka.<br />Ondaatje has done a marvelous job of dissecting the  secrets, identities and memories that form the intricate layers of Sri  Lanka and its tumultuous past.  His quest seems to have been a personal  one, one that was both essential and compelling.  It is just not quite as  essential for the reader.	2000-07-17
2367574:US	50718004	R1P8SAHVW66BOO	0679744665	686456715	The Moor's Last Sigh	Books	5	48	50	N	N	A Cynical Examination of Betrayal and Thwarted Dreams	In a careful and calculated manner, The Moor's Last Sigh leaps across four generations of a rich and demented Indian family, weaving an exquisitely-crafted tapestry of murder and suicide, atheism and asceticism,  affection and adultery.<br />The first person narrator of this cynical yet  mischievous book is Moraes Zogoiby, aka &quot;Moor,&quot; who, seemingly  unaffected by his asthma, spins his tale sitting atop a tombstone within  sight of the Alhambra in Spain and pursued by a policeman named--like the  holy city of Islam--Medina.<br />The centerpiece of this captivating and  gorgeous novel is Moor's highly dysfunctional family, a Grand Guignol of  good and evil, the deformations of the spirit wrought by love withered or  love withheld and the beauty and violence of art, all representative of the  tortured history of twentieth century India.<br />Moor, himself, is the  champion of miscegenation and cultural melange, bastards and cross-breeds.   Standing six and one-half feet tall, Moor has a withered right hand and,  like India, he grows too fast, twice the rate of a normal human being.  A  thirty-six year old elderly man, still in love with a deceitful (and  deceased) woman, Moor exhibits the body of a none-too-healthy seventy-two  year old.  His bloodline, too, is as crowded and diverse as India,  herself.<br />Moor is the son of Abraham Zogoiby, a South Indian Jew who is  probably the illegitimate descendant of Boabdil, the last Muslim Sultan of  Granada and the celebrated artist, Aurora da Gama, a Christian claiming  descent from the Portuguese navigator Vasco da Gama.  <br />Abraham and  Aurora's love first carries them to the dizzying, hyperbolic heights of  fame and power, then plunges them into depths reminiscent of Lucifer's  expulsion from Paradise.  The blood of the Zogoiby family is indeed  tainted--with murder, adultery and lies--and they, in turn, infect everyone  they encounter.<br />A tragic figure, Moor nevertheless reveals a wickedly  comic streak, as Rushdie combines high art with gaudy jags that refer to  the pop cultures of India, America and Britain.  Although most Rushdie  readers are well-versed in multi-cultural sociology, even the most erudite  may have to struggle with this book's obscure, inside jokes and  satire.<br />Disorientation also can occur as Rushdie leaps across time zones,  from present to recent past to near future to ancient history.  These time  shifts, however, play an integral role in explaining each of Moor's  vignettes and relating their importance to the story as a whole.<br />Among  the many dualities threading their way through The Moor's Last Sigh, is the  one of good art versus bad.  The book's title actually refers to two  paintings entitled, The Moor's Last Sigh.  One is painted by Aurora, the  other by her one-time-admirer-turned-nemesis, Vasco Miranda.  Aurora's work  is a masterpiece, the last in a series of allegorical paintings in which  her son serves as subject.  It becomes the symbol that finally gives Moor  the humanity he so desires.  Miranda's, on the other hand, is a sentimental  kitsch of Sultan Boabdil's final departure from Granada.  Which one best  typifies Moor?  In a sense, both do.<br />The narrative, as can be expected  from a Rushdie novel, is filmy but faultless:  a magical mixture of fact  and fable, fantasy and absurdity, comedy and tragedy.  Despite its  brilliant touches of comedy, the tone remains dark, solemn and sober.   Peopled with a wide range of characters, even when parodic and allegorical,  they retain their essential humanness.<br />In the end, Rushdie really does  paint Moor as a prophet, though one whose messianic calling looks not to  the arrival of God but of the better self in all of us, the reconciliation  of our mongrel ethics and spirituality.<br />A timely and compelling novel  full of contradictions and complexities, The Moor's Last Sigh begs the  reader to look beyond its impeccably composed plot to the discordant  richness that typifies postcolonial India today.	2000-07-16
2368435:US	50718004	R329HUL48MDM47	0140280456	497673812	Secrets	Books	5	32	35	N	N	Birthed in Blood	Before its independence in 1960, Somalia was the bloody battleground for power between the fading British and Italian empires; in the late 70s it became a staging ground for the cold war maneuvering between the US and the  USSR.  In 1991, after Somalia's genocidal dictator was overthrown, equally  bloodthirsty warlords began vying for control and, tragically, Somalia  collapsed into anarchy.  Ironically, this racially, ethnically, religiously  and linguistically homogeneous people are now controlled by clans and  subclans.  Unless and until the country confronts its past, Somalians will  render Somalia into nothingness.<br />Nuruddin Farah places responsibility for  Somalia's plight on Somalian's themselves:  &quot;If you take the Somali  nation as a family, the betrayal is no longer that of colonialism, it is no  longer from outside, but from within.  And the cure must also be found from  within.&quot;<br />Farah strives to keep his homeland alive through his  writing and his most recent trilogy, culminating in Secrets, is polemic  disguised as obituary disguised as parable disguised as local drama.<br />In  Secrets, one family serves as a metaphor for Somalia, itself; a family  whose own checkered past and its members failure to understand one another  tears apart and destroys their lives.<br />Kalaman, the protagonist of  Secrets, has always wondered about the secrets surrounding his origins,  beginning with his own name.  For the name, Kalaman, came from the cry of a  bird heard at his birth and, as such, is devoid of any sense of history or  family heritage.  Family heritage, though, is essential to Kalaman, for he  was a child who had always been &quot;interested in the origins of things,  how rivers came into being and why they ran and where.&quot;<br />As a result  of the secrets surrounding both Kalaman and his family, his grandfather,  Nonno, cannot die, his mother suffers from violent nightmares and Kalaman's  world is filled with an ever-increasing emptiness.<br />On the eve of  Somalia's collapse into anarchy, Kalaman's sensual and demanding childhood  sweetheart, Sholoongo, appears in his home and announces her intentions of  bearing his child.  Her presence incurs the wrath of Kalaman's mother and  pulls Kalaman back into a despair-filled past where he disassembles the  myth that represents his family and unleashes all of its long-held secrets.  <br />Secrets displays Farah's superb talents to the fullest.  The plot is  rich, the language sophisticated and exotic without being overwrought.   Displaying elements of magic realism, totemic animals drift through  scenery, dreams are symbolic, folktales, prophetic.  When Kalaman asks  Nonno about Sholoongo's own secrets, Nonno gives him the enigmatic reply:   &quot;A man shuts himself away in a dark room, raises his index finger,  pointing at the ceiling.  Reemerging, he challenges the community members  to tell him what he did in the dark room.  Another man describes accurately  what he did in the dark room when alone.&quot;<br />Conceived in violence  rather than in love, and ignorant of his own history, Kalaman is a metaphor  for Somalia, itself.  Sholoongo, who was born a &quot;duugan,&quot; a baby  to be taken to the desert and buried, represents Somalia's festering,  unspoken history and like that history she &quot;lived to haunt the  villagers conscience.&quot;  Sholoongo is the book's catalyst and her  arrival brings back an ugly past for each of Farah's characters, yet, once  confronted and embraced, this ugliness is transformed.<br />Nonno tells  Kalaman his &quot;undealt-with troubles began the instant he introduced a  decisive element of blame-the-other syndrome into his guilt ridden  sorrow.&quot;  Nonno then begins to associate Kalaman even more closely  with Somalia:  &quot;There are moments in a person's or a nation's life  when collapses can be avoided, even if at first they seem  inevitable...Kalaman could have brought an end to this rigamarole sooner,  if he had been true to his own instincts, if he had been forthrightly frank  with Sholoongo herself:  the Somali collectivity could have reversed the  coming decline.  He had no right to blame his parents or Nonno or others  for his own failure...Give people a chance to speak their pieces, and many  will display their personal and collective hurts:  they all see themselves  as ill-used by the dictatorship.  Press them further into the corner, ask  them for their contributions to the struggle against one-man tyranny, and  they fall silent, many unable to deny being accomplices in the  rain.&quot;<br />Secrets is a magical story, evocative of the beauty and  tragedy that is Africa today.  Its politics are metaphorical and never  intrusive, for Farah is not a politician but a storyteller  extraordinaire.<br />His life-affirming message, however, to the family that  is Somalia is clear:  Heal your wounds, Sister.  Shout your secrets from  the rooftops as loud as you can.	2000-07-16
2371045:US	50718004	R12SR2ZTQ87N7U	0075536692	282010593	Death In Venice	Books	5	51	58	N	N	The Self Destructive Potential of Love	Death in Venice is the first serious study of homoerotic love in the modern novel although many precedents do exist:  the ambiguous sonnets of Michelangelo or Shakespeare, Marlowe's tortured Edward II, the androgynous  aesthetics of Winckelmann, the lyrical allegories of Rimbaud and the dark  insinuations  of Stevenson's Jekyll and Hyde or Wilde's Dorian Gray.  E.M.  Forester's posthumously published Maurice is exactly contemporary with  Death in Venice.<br />Death in Venice tells the story of Gustave von  Aschenbach, a writer living in Munich.  One May afternoon, while strolling  through that city's famed English Gardens, von Aschenbach encounters the  Wandervogel (hiker); an apparition of an angular, hawklike man, who returns  von Aschenbach's gaze before disappearing.<br />A true ascetic, von Aschenbach  has never known the sweet idleness and freedom of youth, but after viewing  the Wandervogel he is seized by the desire to travel and leave his labors  behind.  Finally obeying the urges of his long-repressed, primeval, exotic  side, von Aschenbach sets out for Trieste, however after only ten days he  decides he dislikes that city and take a boat to Venice instead.<br />While  making the short trip. von Aschenbach encounters yet another  apparition--that of an old man, who, through the artifice of makeup and a  wig, has attempted to make himself appear young again--to no avail.   Disgusted, von Aschenbach promptly hires a gondolier and checks into his  hotel on the Lido.<br />Later that evening, von Aschenbach's attention is  hypnotically drawn to a Polish boy of fourteen who is dining at the next  table with his family.  Pale, with long hair and chiseled features and full  of the exuberant charm and sweetness of youth, von Aschenbach silently  acknowledges the fact that he has never witnessed anyone or anything, in  nature or in art, that exhibits the perfection of this Polish youth.   Although as yet unaware of its significance, this is the moment that seals  von Aschenbach's fate.<br />The next morning, after experiencing revulsion at  the sight and smell of the city's lagoons, von Aschenbach decides to leave  Venice, but a mixup with his luggage compels him to remain.  When he once  again encounters the Polish youth, whose name he has learned is Tadzio, he  comes to a partial realization of his heretofore subconscious desires and  gives himself over to contemplation of &quot;every line and pose&quot; of  Tadzio's exquisite form.<br />Though aware that an outbreak of cholera in  Venice is being suppressed and concerned with a series of premonitions  (reminiscent of the Wandervogel in the English Gardens) von Aschenbach  chooses not to flee and even seeks to win Tadzio's attention by making  himself up to appear younger than his true age, a sight which, only a short  time ago, he had found revolting.<br />The days pass in a dreamlike state for  von Aschenbach, caught in the trap of Tadzio's youth and beauty.  When  Tadzio catches von Aschenbach staring at him, he returns the stare with a  smile.  Tormented, as well as exhilarated, von Aschenbach flees into the  shadows of the park where he utters what he has known all along, &quot;I  love you.&quot;<br />von Aschenbach's confession of love for Tadzio brings  about the tragic climax of Death in Venice.  The once dignified and  distinguished von Aschenbach has allowed his passion for Tadzio to engulf  him, pulling him into the vortex of a whirlpool of sensuality that can only  lead to death and destruction.<br />Mann, himself, described the theme of  Death in Venice as that most Wagernerian of ideas, the Liebestod  (love-death), or fascination with death.  Everything about this book has  been crafted to illustrate the triumph of despair over discipline,  destruction over restoration.<br />The complex, figurative prose of Death in  Venice is different from everything else written by Mann.  Even in  translation, the contrast is instantly apparent between Death in Venice's  elevated and elegiac tone and the more conversational idiom of A Man and  His Dog, Disorder and Early Sorrow or even the more serious Mario and the  Magician.<br />Mann wisely chose to write Death in Venice in rich, almost  over-elaborate images.  While this could (and should) be denounced as  artifice when employed by an author of lesser talent, Mann knew that  elaboration was necessary if we were to believe a man of dignity and  ethics, such as von Aschenbach, falling in love with Tadzio.  In describing  Tadzio, Mann writes:  &quot;His face recalled the noblest moment of Greek  sculpture--pale, with a sweet reserve, with clustering honey-colored  ringlets, the brow and nose descending in one line, the winning mouth, the  expression of pure and godlike serenity.&quot;<br />Death in Venice is a  highly symbolic novella, with the symbolism centered around death.  While  some of it is readily apparent, much is more elusive.  The Wandervogel  encountered by von Aschenbach in the opening is only the first of many  portents of death.  Even Mann's description of the Wandervogel is evocative  of a skeleton or a ghoul:  &quot;His chin was up, so that the Adam's apple  looked very bald in the lean neck rising from the loose shirt; and he stood  there sharply peering up into space out of colorless red-lashed eyes...At  any rate, standing there as though at survey, the man had a bold and  domineering, even a ruthless air, and his lips completed the picture by  seeming to curl back, either by reason of some deformity or else because he  grimaced, being blinded by the sun in his face; they laid bare the long,  white, glistening teeth to the gums.&quot;<br />Once the story moves to  Venice, Mann introduces other images of death in the form of the gondolas  and discerning readers will quickly realize that the gondolier, the  &quot;despotic boatman,&quot; embodies Charon, ferryman of the Styx in  Hades.<br />By the book's climax, Tadzio, essentially a two-dimensional  character, takeson the characteristics of Hermes, who, with his smile,  which becomes the kiss of death, summons von Aschenbach to his ultimate  destruction.<br />Much in Death in Venice reflects Mann's own life, although  the work is by no means autobiographical.  Nevertheless, much in von  Aschenbach can be found in Mann.  von Aschenbach, though is an extreme  example of the imperfections Mann did battle with during his own lifetime.   If we only look closely, we can see that von Aschenbach is a symbol of the  frailties and fallacies that plague us all.	2000-07-14
2373275:US	50718004	R3VTA7X4G4J4KI	0316769509	595009960	Nine Stories	Books	5	101	108	N	N	Classic Salinger	J.D. Salinger has rightfully been one of the most highly praised authors of the 20th century.  Although best known for his coming-of-age novel, The Catcher in the Rye, Salinger also wrote brilliant short stories of great  complexity.  This is quite an accomplishment when one considers the fact  that the short story poses problems the novel easily  overcomes.<br />Salinger's skillful use of language is what distinguishes him  most from his contemporaries.  There is never a dull moment in a Salinger  short story as this expert author intertwines detail and dialogue to convey  emotion to the reader.<br />Although the short story leaves little room for  character development, Salinger's superb style and careful use of language  allow us to get to know his characters intimately in a very short period of  time.<br />The stories included in Salinger's dazzling collection, Nine  Stories, were published between 1948 and 1953 in The New Yorker.<br />They  exhibit a unified tone and theme, something not usually found in short  story collections.  They are classic Salinger and classic stories; each one  contributes to the volume as a whole and each is therefore enriched in its  relation to the others.<br />Although people disagree on which story is best,  each contains elements of the relationship between children and adults, one  of Salinger's signature themes.<br />Two of the stories, A Perfect Day for  Bananafish and For Esm&eacute;--With Love and Squalor, both feature protagonists  (Seymour and Sargent X) who, as veterans of WWII, have sacrificed their  psychological well-being and are no longer the men they once thought they  were.  Both feel alienated from life and, more importantly, from those they  love.  Both protagonists are searching for new forms of comfort and  security in the respective characters of Sybil and Esm&eacute;.<br />Here, however,  the similarities end.  For Sybil lacks Esm&eacute;'s insight and the final outcome  for Seymour is very different than that of Sargent X and perhaps different  than what it could have been.<br />In A Perfect Day for Bananafish, Seymour's  wife, Muriel, goes to great lengths to reassure her mother regarding  Seymour's soundness of mind, although Salinger carefully lets us, the  reader, glimpse Seymour's paranoia.<br />Searching for the non-judgmental  understanding of a child (but the love of an adult), Seymour befriends  young Sybil, a child he's met on the beach.  After realizing the  impossibility of his desires and his own isolation, Seymour is driven to  one last, desperate act, an act that makes some question his sanity while  others will see him as finally regaining the control he had lost.<br />In For  Esm&eacute;--With Love and Squalor, Sargent X also has a relationship with a  child, but it is one that is quite different from that of Seymour and  Sybil.<br />An intelligent and vivacious girl, Esm&eacute; lost her own father in  North Africa and is quite aware of the horrors of war.  When she approaches  Sargent X in an English tearoom, she senses his isolation and resultant  alienation and offers to write him, something Sargent X immediately agrees  to.<br />Thirty minutes after their meeting, Esm&eacute; takes her leave of Sargent X  with the words, &quot;I hope you return with all your faculties  intact.&quot;<br />Had it not been for Esm&eacute;, however, and the letter she  writes, Sargent X would not have returned with all his faculties intact.  Esm&eacute;'s letter provides the one certain connection to reality and the  constancy of day-to-day life that Sargent X needs.  It both comforts him  and reassures him that there is still some happiness out there to be found.  At a time when the war has left him with nothing else to relate to, Esm&eacute;  provides the needed link.<br />In this extraordinary collection of stories we  find different people in different situations, yet a common thread of life  runs through all, linking the stories to one another and to readers  everywhere.  This is only a small part of the genius that typifies J.D.  Salinger.  Read this book and I guarantee, like millions of readers before,  you'll come back for more!hat typifies J.D.  Salinger.  Read this book and I guarantee, like millions of readers before,  you'll come back for more!	2000-07-12
2374715:US	50718004	R2YMGB9T18GXZZ	0880015829	318982614	The Sheltering Sky	Books	5	357	421	N	N	Polished To Perfection	In Paul Bowles' The Sheltering Sky, three still-young Americans travel to the post WWII North African desert in search of themselves and new experiences. <br />Port and Kit Moresby, in the tenth year of marriage, have  become both sexually and emotionally estranged, and Port hopes their  sojourn into the desert will bring them closer together and restore the  love they once shared.  Kit, not so keen on either the desert or Port, has  nevertheless agreed to Port's wishes, albeit reluctantly.  The third person  in their party, their friend, George Tunner, accompanies them more on a  whim than anything else.<br />Seeking the exotic, the trio really doesn't know  what to do with it when they find it.  The sun is too bright, the labyrinth  of city streets too dark, the excess of sensual delights a surfeit that  imprisons rather than frees.<br />Becoming more and more dissatisfied with  both themselves and with those around them, they decide to leave the  restrictiveness of the city behind and venture farther south, into the  wild, harsh, dazzling beauty of the Sahara.  They meet the Lyles,  ostensibly mother and son, who claim to be writing a travel book but whose  real business appears to be far more sinister, much like the duo's own  obsessive Freudian tangles.<br />Port, who at first, found himself drawn  inexorably to the beauty and remoteness of the Sahara, soon becomes  violently ill and dies, and Kit, grateful to be rescued by a passing,  enigmatic Arab, finds that things are not always as they seem.  Her rescuer  becomes her imprisoner, and as the sun grows ever brighter, the shadows  grow deeper.  The bizarre eventually becomes so real that Kit gradually and  terrifyingly loses what fragile grip on reality she once  possessed.<br />Although The Sheltering Sky may, on the surface, seem like a  lurid and melodramatic tale, it is anything but.  A masterpiece of  understatement, plot is always secondary to theme in Bowles' writing; the  real changes take place in the minds of the characters who must face an  immensity of experience they cannot even hope to understand much less  prepare themselves for.<br />The indifference of nature and the unforgiving  quality of the desert also play a huge part in this story.  The book could  be a metaphor for the meaninglessness of most 20th century relationships.   Port and Kit's journey into the heart of the Sahara mirrors our own journey  into the depths of the soul and we either come back altered forever (Kit)  or we don't come back at all (Port).  It is significant that Tunner, more  superficial in both his outlook and psychological makeup, fails to make the  journey into the depths of the desert and, as such, he remains untouched by  it.  He emerges essentially the same as he was when the story began.<br />The  Sheltering Sky could have been a character study, but Bowles wisely eschews  this venue.  Although we gain flashes of insight into each character, we  really don't get to know them in-depth.  An existential novel, the  characters in The Sheltering Sky are more symbolic than fully-formed,  fleshed-out people.  In a highly thematic book, however, this is exactly as  it should be, and Bowles never fails to manipulate his characters with  anything less than sheer perfection.<br />The inner emptiness of the  characters is emphasized by the incompleteness of their emotional  experiences.  Every time Port or Kit seem to be on the verge of discovering  a deeper connection, to themselves or to each other, Bowles pulls the chair  out from under the reader.  The scene that best typifies this lack of depth  is Kit's as she spends her final moments with Port following his death:   &quot;Softly she laid her cheek on the pillow and stroked his hair.  No  tears flowed, it was a silent leave-taking.  A strangely intense buzzing in  front of her made her open her eyes.  She watched fascinated while two  flies made their brief, frantic love on his lower lip.&quot;<br />Although The  Sheltering Sky is, for the most part, written in beautifully understated  prose (the vivid place descriptions are the exception), there is nothing  subtle about its message.  And, while one emerges from this strange and  complex novel as if from a dream, a little reflection makes it clear that  our dreams can so easily become our nightmares.<br />The real setting of The  Sheltering Sky is not the vast, uncharted Sahara, but the vast, uncharted  reaches of the modern soul.  Like Bowles' characters, we won't find the  journey to the depths an easy one, but if we are going to do more than live  on the periphery of life we should, however, find the journey  necessary.<br />Polished to perfection in every way, The Sheltering Sky is the  strangest, and most strangely familiar, book I've read in a long, long  time.	2000-07-12
2384214:US	50718004	R3P72E5U0P9MLQ	0060929790	795338322	One Hundred Years of Solitude	Books	5	327	348	N	N	Tragi-Comic Masterpiece of Epic Proportions	One Hundred Years of Solitude, the greatest of all Latin American novels is the magic and multi-layered epic of the Buendia family and the story of their jungle settlement, Macondo.<br />Like many other epics, this book has  deeply-rooted connections with historical reality, i.e., the development of  Colombia since its independence from Spain in the early 19th century.  The  story of the Buendia family is obviously a metaphor for Colombia in the  neocolonial period as well as a narrative concerning the myths in Latin  American history.<br />The finest example of magic realism, One Hundred Years  of Solitude is a wonderfully comic novel, yet the book also exudes a  pervading sense of irony; a strong undercurrent of sadness, solitude and  tragic futility.  The intermingling of the fantastic with the ordinary  keeps readers in a state of constant anticipation, especially where the  generations of Buendia men are concerned.<br />Some of this extraordinary  novel's most important effects are achieved through the interplay of time  as both linear and circular.  The founding of Macondo and its narrative,  for the most part, follow time in a linear sense, as does the history of  the Buendia family, who form a series of figures symbolizing the particular  historical period of which they are a part.<br />The book, however is almost  obsessively circular in its outlook, as characters repeat, time and again,  the experience of earlier generations.  The book's fatalism is underscored  by this circular sense of time.  Even a name a person is given at birth  predetermines his or her life and manner of death, e.g., the Aurelianos  were all lucid, solitary figures, while the Jose Arcadios were energetic  and enterprising, albeit tragic.<br />The characters in One Hundred Years of  Solitude represent the purest archetypes; they are two dimensional and are  used to convey certain thematic points.  This enhances the beauty of the  novel rather than detracting from it, for One Hundred Years of Solitude is  thematic and metaphorical in nature rather than psychological.<br />The male  figures are obsessive, and full of ambitious projects and passionate  sexuality.  They are, however, given to extreme anger, irrational violence  and long periods of self-imposed solitude.<br />The female characters also  lend themselves to categorization.  With the exception of the Remedios, the  women in the book exhibit either common sense and determination or  passionate eroticism.  But while the men are dreamy and irrational, the  women are firmly rooted in reality.  Both sexes, however, embody a similar  fatal flaw; they lack the ability to relate to the world outside of  Macondo.  They fall victim to their own constructions, plunging them into a  harsh and long-lasting solitude.<br />Macondo is fated to end the moment one  of its inhabitants deciphers Melquiades the Gypsy's manuscripts regarding  the town's history.  In a sense, however, Macondo does survive.  One of the  few who take the advice of the Catalan bookseller and leave the town before  its destruction is Gabriel Garcia Marquez, himself, who escapes with the  complete works of Rabelais.<br />This self-referential ending, pointing to the  world beyond Macondo from which Garcia Marquez is telling the story tells  us that whatever life is to be lived in Latin America should not be the  magic but self-defeating experience of the Buendias, but rather an  ever-widening life of learning and moving on; the development of an  awareness of doing what each situation requires.<br />Garcia Marquez is more  than a Nobel Prize winning author.  He is a magician par excellence;  someone whose unique ability to produce a magical realm where anything is  possible and everything is believable is unrivaled.  This is the  overwhelming reason why this dazzling masterpiece does, and will continue  to attract, convince and hypnotize readers for decades to come.	2000-07-07
2388542:US	50718004	R2TNR96SX4XGDW	0679725164	143378173	No Exit and Three Other Plays	Books	5	153	161	N	N	Hell Is What We Make It	No Exit (Huis Clos), is a one-act, four-character play written by Jean-Paul Sartre, French philosopher, writer, literary critic, social and political activist and leader (with Albert Camus) of the existential  movement based in Paris.<br />No Exit, first produced one month before D-Day  in 1944, was the second of Sartre's many plays.  Translated literally, Huis  Clos, means &quot;closed doors.&quot;<br />This play represents a tight  conflict of characters who need one another and, at the same time,  desperately want to get away from one another, yet cannot leave.  There is  no other modern play that offers such a profound metaphor for the human  condition.  One would have to go back to Doctor Faustus or The Bacchae to  encounter such a metaphor, and in the present day, only Kesey's One Flew  Over the Cuckoo's Nest can rival No Exit in its existential metaphor of the  human condition.<br />In No Exit, three characters are doomed to spend  eternity together in a Second Empire drawing room; Sartre's metaphorical  hell.  This room is devoid of mirrors, windows and books.  There is no  means of extinguishing the lights and the characters have even lost their  eyelids.  They have nothing left but one another and the hell (or heaven)  they choose to create.<br />The three characters who come to inhabit the room  are Joseph Garcin, a war defector and wife abuser; Inez Serrano, a  working-class Spanish woman, who is slowly revealed to be a lesbian; and  Estelle Rigault, a member of the French upper class.  Sartre brilliantly  gives the characters dual reasons for their eternal damnation:  first, each  committed abominable acts while alive, and second, and perhaps more  importantly, each failed to live his or her life in an authentic  manner.<br />As each character is brought into the room by the valet, each  begins to develop an entangled, triangular relationship with the other two.   All three slowly come to the realization that each is the others' eternal  torturer.  Eachcharacter wants something from another that the other  cannot, or will not, surrender.  Thus, all three are doomed to a perpetual  stalemate of torture.<br />Sartre's philosophical tenets in Being and  Nothingness (L'Etre et le Néant), are beautifully interwoven into the  fabric of No Exit.  Through dialogue and action, Sartre transforms his  philosophical assertions into dialectic form, pitting Inez against both  Garcin and Estelle in an eternal battle of ideologies.  The characters come  to embody Sartre's tenets, and as they interact, the author's ideas come to  life.  The tenuous balance the characters face between needing the others  to define themselves, and the desire to preserve their own freedom is  developed throughout the play, but is never resolved.<br />No Exit would have  been far less meaningful, metaphorically, if the one locked door had not  swung open at the end of the play, showing us that the continuation of any  state of existence is as much a matter of choice as it is anything  else.<br />The biggest question No Exit seems to leave unanswered is whether  the misery we cause one another is meant to be or if it is simply chance  and the decisions we make that cause that misery.  Furthermore, is there  anything we can do about it, or is our nature so constructed so that we  have no choice in the matter?<br />The character of Inez realizes the only  positive message in the play when she says, &quot;One always dies too  soon--or too late.  And yet one's whole life is complete at that moment,  with a line drawn neatly under it, ready for the summing up.  You are--your  life, and nothing else.&quot;  Inez realizes that we have, in each moment,  everything we need to be happy, yet we insist on searching for the things  that make us miserable.<br />With the production of No Exit, Sartre made his  paradoxical existentialist philosophy accessible to a much larger audience.   More than a &quot;thesis&quot; play, No Exit is both engaging and valuable  asa piece of dramatic literature in its own right.<br />As testament to its  lasting message is the fact that it is still produced internationally  today.  No Exit is an extraordinary play, filled with complexities and  philosophical premises that are as relevant today as they were when Sartre  first illuminated them.	2000-07-05
2401843:US	50718004	R3GR2POK8FQ1OZ	0688143253	855528827	The New French Baker: Perfect Pastries And Beautiful Breads From Your Kitchen	Books	5	54	57	N	N	Authentic and Delicious	While all French women seem to be born with a natural affinity for cooking, only a few know how to bake.  If you're ever in France, try looking for a book detailing classic French baking and you'll see what I  mean.  They just don't exist.<br />Of course, the French do love baked goods,  but tradition has dictated that we leave their creation to the masters.   Even the tiniest village  in the French countryside will have an assortment  of boulangeries (bakeries) and patisseries (pastry shops).  And, if you  walk through the village early enough in the morning, most of the people  you encounter will be coming home with their daily baguette. <br />When our  bakeries and pastry shops close for their own month long summer holiday, we  usually just do without.<br />The New French Baker has literally, for me, at  least, brought the joy of authentic French baking to France.  In one big,  wonderful book, Sheila Linderman has gathered together authentic and  delectable recipes for classic French breads, pastries and  desserts.<br />Linderman first details the basics and she also explains  exactly how to make the various French pastry doughs, something most French  cooks aren't well acquainted with.<br />All of the favorite classics are  included:  Tarte Tatin, Tarte au Citron, éclairs, millefeuilles, palmiers,  choux à la crème, crepes, crème brulée and more.<br />Linderman's step-by-step  instructions make sure you always create the perfect brioche and the most  impeccable raspberry tarte.  There is even a special section on the proper  handling of fresh ingredients such as butter, flour, eggs and  chocolate.<br />The chocoholics in your life will love Linderman's truffles as  well as her Four-Tiered Chocolate Mousse.<br />Although the recipes in this  book are certainly delicious, they are all quite difficult to make.  This  is not a book for the beginning baker; it is more suited to one with some  experience who wants to expand his or her horizons in the areas of breads  and pastries.<br />The only problem I have with the book is a small one:  the  inclusion of more photos of these wonderful (and gorgeous!) pastries would  have been a definite plus and would have added to the value of the  book.<br />But thanks to Sheila Linderman and The New French Baker, my family  and I are now enjoying delicious classic French pastries right from our own  kitchen for the very first time!  C'est magnifique!	2000-06-26
2404331:US	50718004	R1U7PXTL7HMG0Q	0312263996	164241000	Timbuktu: A Novel	Books	4	30	37	N	N	Warm-hearted and Entertaining	Mr. Bones, the canine protagonist of Timbuktu, has, for the past nine years, been the trusty (and trusted) companion of Willy G. Christmas, a drunken, schizoid, vagabond poet who was born William Gurevitch in November  1947, the only child of Polish-Jewish immigrants.  Auster fans will  recognize Willy as a reworking of the heroes of Moon Palace and Music of  Chance:  a Booklyn-born, Columbia-educated child of the 50s.<br />After Willy  torpedoes his budding literary career with drugs and suffers &quot;the  schizo flip-out of 1968,&quot; he experiences an epiphany:  Santa Claus,  himself speaks to him directly via his television telling him &quot;to  embody the mission of Christmas every day of the year, to ask nothing from  the world and give it only love in return.&quot;<br />Willy takes this  commandment so seriously that he and Mr. Bones are soon almost bankrupt.   When Willy finds himself mortally ill, he collects his seventy-four  notebooks, filled with &quot;poems, stories, essays, diary entries,  epigrams, autobiographical musings, and the first 1800 lines of an epic in  progress,&quot; and, with Mr. Bones in tow, sets out for 316 Calvert  Street, Baltimore, Maryland, the home of Mrs. Bea Swanson.<br />Mrs. Swanson,  the one teacher who actually encouraged Willy, has now become Willy's  designated recipient of both the notebooks and Mr. Bones.<br />But Willy dies  en route, leaving Mr. Bones to fend for himself.  Mr. Bones evades both dog  catchers and a group of wayward boys and is befriended by the  gentle-but-luckless eleven year old, Henry Chow, before landing in the lap  of bourgeois luxury in rural Virginia.<br />For a time, things couldn't seem  better, thinks Mr. Bones, but, like all perfect times, this one, too, comes  to an end.<br />Like other Auster books, Timbuktu owes a debt to the author's  previous works.  There is a hip jocularity and distinct Americaness about  this book that is evocative of Mr. Vertigo.<br />Willy's logomaniacal speechesat the beginning of the book are energizing but intrusive and detract from  the warm connection Mr. Bones feels for his master.  Mr. Bones, himself, is  given a more familiar Austerian voice that is crisp and  fast-flowing.<br />Timbuktu is devoid of satire, magic realism and political  and social statements of any kind, all to Auster's credit.  It eschews  existential problems such as those encountered by Franz Kafka's canine  narrator in Investigations of a Dog.  Timbuktu's theme seems to be  spiritual longing, connectedness and the search for something better than  what we already possess.<br />Auster, usually an outstanding writer, fails to  fulfill the promises he makes with Timbuktu.  Although Mr. Bones is a joy,  Auster doesn't give this wonderful dog free enough rein and the book  suffers for it.  It could have been, and should have been, so much more.   The German historian, Saul Friedlander, has written that kitsch and death  are the new religions of our day.  Perhaps Auster tried to symbolize their  union in Timbuktu.  If so, he should have just stuck with Mr. Bones, a  genuine winner in every way.<br />For those seeking great literature or a book  offering deeply-satisfying, life-enriching themes, Timbuktu would be a poor  choice.  But for those simply looking for a light, warm-hearted story and a  few hours of pure entertainment (as I was), Timbuktu will no doubt more  than suffice.	2000-06-25
2406314:US	50718004	R3L64SRUMLPMLY	0306804573	87649292	My Life And My Films (A Da Capo paperback)	Books	5	46	50	N	N	A Must For All Fans and Students of Film	Jean Renoir is one of the greatest masters of the art of cinema.  This autobiographical work traces his life from his childhood in France to his later years in Beverly Hills, not in the conventional sense, but rather  through the world of film.  This is fitting since the world of film was  truly Jean Renoir's world.<br />Jean Renoir, middle son of Pierre-Auguste  Renoir, made his first public debut quite early, albeit quite reluctantly,  as the little boy with the long, golden curls who figures so prominently in  many of his famous father's paintings.<br />Jean Renoir's early life, in later  19th century France, was dominated by two people--his father and Gabrielle  Renard, his maternal cousin, who was to become his nanny and later, his  dearest friend.  While it was Auguste Renoir who introduced Jean to the  world of art, it was Gabrielle who led him to the cinema.  Jean, himself,  says, &quot;To her I owe Guignol and the Theatre Montmarte.  She taught me  to realize that the very unreality of those entertainments was a reason for  examining real life.  She taught me to see the face behind the masks and  the fraud behind the flourishes.&quot;<br />Jean Renoir begins and ends this  book with Gabrielle Renard, and, along the way, he examines and reveals the  profound influence this marvelous woman exerted over him.  In  characteristic fashion Jean writes more about others than about himself.   He lets us peer into the lives of the actors, technicians and producers  with whom he worked, in places as diverse as Paris, Hollywood and even  India.  And, also characteristic of Jean, the unknown often play a role as  large or larger than do the very famous.   <br />While most of Jean Renoir's  personal life remains unrevealed (this is definitely not a vapid,  &quot;tell all&quot; tale!), he does tell us how and why he became a  filmmaker and he goes to great lengths when explaining the relationship  between film and life.  From the depths of his dazzling imagination, JeanRenoir created nearly forty films, films that Francois Truffaut called,  &quot;the most alive films in the history of cinema.&quot;  Two of these  films, Grand Illusion and The Rules of the Game, are often thought of as  Jean Renoir's masterpieces.<br />But other films also live on, including The  River, the lyrically beautiful film Jean Renoir made in India, and The  Southerner, a poetic tale in which all the characters are heroic, in which  every element plays its part and all come together in an act of homage to  divinity.<br />This book should be required reading for all students of film  everywhere for, as Garson Kanin said of Jean Renoir, &quot;In the world he  inhabits he is known as the best of men.  In the cinema universe he is a  living god.&quot;<br />Everyone, I believe, film student or just a lover of  film, can find something to love in My Life and My Films, for Jean Renoir  was a man of immense and daring imagination and creativity; he was both  simple in outlook yet profound, but above all, he was a lover of humanity,  one whose heart and spirit were always as generous as they were wise.	2000-06-24
2412865:US	50718004	RZJTJPFLYFIQM	0679733787	66884954	The Woman in the Dunes	Books	5	113	122	N	N	Profoundly Poetic	Kobo Abe's Woman in the Dunes in both an existential allegory as well as a masterpiece of sensual terror.<br />The story begins when teacher and amateur entymologist, Jumpei Niki, decides to get away from things for awhile and  searches for insects in an isolated desert region of Japan near the sea.   When he realizes he's missed the last bus back to a &quot;real&quot; town,  the local villagers offer to find him a place to stay for the  night.<br />Although there are no hotels available, Jumpei is escorted to a  rope ladder extending down into a pit in the sand.  At the bottom he finds  a ramshakle hut and a lone woman living in a bizarre situation; she spends  the entire night, every night, shoveling sand away from her home in order  to stave off her own burial and the subsequent destruction of the village.   The sand is given to the villagers in return for water and other  necessities, something the woman views as &quot;community  spirit.&quot;<br />To his horror, Jumpei awakens to find the rope laffer gone  and discovers he's been targeted as the woman's new partner and  &quot;helper.&quot;  Jumpei resists and even makes a futile attempt at  escape, to which the woman says, &quot;I'm really sorry.  But honestly  there hasn't been a single person to get out yet.&quot;<br />Inevitably,  Jumpei and the woman engage in a series of sexual encounters that have more  to do with an affirmation of life than with physical or emotional  attraction.  This book is many things, but a love story is definitely not  one of them.<br />When the woman (who remains nameless) suffers an ectopic  pregnancy, Jumpei suddenly finds himself alone in the pit and free to go,  yet enigmatically (or so it may seem), he refuses to do so.<br />Obviously,  this shattering and gorgeous story is open to many levels of  interpretation; only a few are obvious.<br />Jumpei clearly represents the  &quot;new, Westernized&quot; Japan, while the woman personifies  &quot;traditional&quot; Japan and tate mae.  Rather than buying into the  futility of life, the woman calmly accepts the role life has assigned to  her with dignity and patience.<br />Although she is often treated unfairly  (and even abused) by Jumpei, the woman in the dunes still bathes him  regularly and cooks his dinner every day, accepting him without anger or  scorn.<br />Westerners may view the woman in the dunes as complacent and weak,  but in reality, she is anything but.  Her ability to carry on day after  day, in the face of overwhelming odds, as well as her seeming peace of mind  personify the maxim that suffering exists only in the eye of the  beholder.<br />At times, the message of this book may seem to be that life is  futile; that no matter how much you struggle, you'll simply be forced to  struggle again and again, so much so that when opportunity does come  knocking, a useless existence may seem safer than an uncertain  freedom.<br />The real problem, however, and the crux of this book, is one of  perspective.  Although Jumpei's &quot;old&quot; life may seem to be the  better and the more fulfilling (as well as the more free), is it really?   If you were to ask the woman in the dunes, I think she might smile, turn  her head shyly and suggest you get back to work.	2000-06-20
2418742:US	50718004	RNHEY8A3NB9EC	0140259198	782566565	The Island of the Day Before	Books	4	67	81	N	N	Great, But Not Eco's Best	Roberto della Griva, the protagonist of The Island of the Day Before, was born in 1614, a member of one of the minor noble families of northern Italy, vassals of the Marquis of Monferrato.<br />While still a young child,  Roberto manages to convince himself that he has an evil brother, Ferrante,  kept secret by his family, to whom he ascribes all his bad actions.   Ferrante serves to explain Roberto's bad luck, for everything bad that  happens to Roberto is Ferrante's fault and Roberto must therefore go  through life being punished for Ferrante's misdeeds.<br />At the age of  sixteen, Roberto's father is killed at the Siege of Casale, the fortress  guarding the frontier between Italy and France.  Roberto manages to return  to Italy long enough to arrange a yearly income for himself before  travelling to France.<br />Roberto arrives in Paris in the early 1640s, at the  moment of the transition of power between Cardinal Richelieu and Cardinal  Mazarin.  Having an interest in astronomy and philosophy, Roberto frequents  the scientific salons and we learn much about the early 17th century.   During the course of his visits, Roberto falls in love with one the great  ladies of Paris and mistakenly believes that she returns his love.  He  begins writing her a series of leters that eventually fall into the hands  of the narrator and form the basis of the book.<br />Ferrante intervenes,  however, in the guise of Cardinal Mazarin and Roberto's carefree life in  Paris comes to an end.  France is engaged in a race with England to find  the answer to the problem of longitude, and Mazarin blackmails Roberto into  booking passage on the Dutch vessel, the Amaryllis, bound for the South  Seas.  When the ship sinks during a storm, Roberto, for once, forsaken by  Ferrante and enjoying good luck instead of bad, is the sole  survivor.<br />Roberto eventually washes up on the Daphne, another deserted  Dutch ship that was also sailing in the interests of science.  Anchored off  an islandin the South Pacific, the Daphne is located on what Roberto comes  to believe is the Prime Meridian.  He thus believes that when he sits on  the deck of the ship on the west side, and gazes at the island on the east  side, he is truly looking at the day before.<br />Roberto soon learns that the  Daphne is not quite as deserted as it had seemed when he encounters the  Jesuit priest, Father Caspar Wanderdrossel.<br />Father Wanderdrossel has also  been seeking the mystery of longitude in hopes that the answer will reveal  to him the source of the Great Flood.  Besides engaging in a series of  lengthy discussions with Wanderdrossel, Roberto also spends his time aboard  the Daphne writing memoirs and love letters.<br />Despite the fact that the  island to the east is inhabited by cannibals and neither Roberto nor  Wanderdrossel can swim, they decide they must reach the shore.   Wanderdrossel devises a strange invention that would seem to permit him to  walk to the island over the ocean floor, but when Roberto lowers him over  the side, Wanderdrossel is never seen again.<br />Alone, Roberto occupies  himself with his writings which now deal almost exclusively with his alter  ego, Ferrante.  Roberto eventually comes up with a fitting end for Ferrante  and soon after, he, himself drowns, leaving behind only his letters and  memoirs.<br />The Island of the Day Before seems to have no point and, in  fact, it does not.  But this is only part of the book's beauty.  Eco uses  the book to give us a grand tour of the 17th century while the characters  search for cohesion and meaning that just isn't there.<br />This isn't always  bad.  In The Name of the Rose, Eco played out the same theme while giving  us a discourse on late medieval ecclesiastical politics, but he also  entertained us brilliantly with a Sherlock Holmes parody.<br />For some  people, part of this novel's problem no doubt lies in the time period in  which it is set.  In the 17th century, no one expected life to make much  sense.  People lived according to signs and symbols.  Their prose and  politics were complex and obscure.  While a few, such as Descartes,  searched for answers, most simply accepted what was imposed.<br />Eco might  argue that his novel only parodies life, which, ultimately, has no point.   And, who knows, he could be right.  But The Island of the Day Before is not  real life.  It is a book and Eco is a master writer.  As beautiful as it  is, the journey from beginning to end should have been larger than life and  a lot more fun.	2000-06-17
2419293:US	50718004	R18X7MXQETJ5ED	0345310020	615857333	Chronicle of a Death Foretold	Books	5	72	78	N	N	The Presence of Death in Life	The first sentence of this harrowing, surrealistic novella concerns itself with the murder of the wealthy, twenty-one year old Santiago Nasar and every page that follows only serves to broaden and enlarge this  action.<br />The novella, a narrative written twenty-seven years after the  murder by Nasar's journalist friend, serves as a detailed history of the  hours leading up to the crime.  The entire population of a fictional Latin  American village comprise the cast of characters and as we become privy to  their actions and memories, the one certainty we learn is that everyone had  a part to play in this crime.<br />The night before the murder, Angela Vicario  had married Bayardo San Roman in a lavish and costly ceremony.  However,  when San Roman learns that Angela is not a virgin he returns her to her  mother immediately.  When pressed to name the man who stole her virginity  and disgraced the family name, Angela answers, &quot;Santiago  Nasar.&quot;<br />Nothing points to the truthfulness of Angela's assertion,  but her twin brothers, Pablo and Pedro, who are pig butchers by profession,  sharpen their knives and begin their search for Nasar.<br />Although  &quot;there had never been a death more foretold,&quot; every one of the  town's citizens has some reason, valid or not, for doing little or nothing  to prevent the death of Nasar.<br />Even Nasar, himself, until the final  moments, seems oblivious to what every other person in the town is well  aware of.  Amazingly, he seems to either feel himself above death or simply  resigned to his fate.<br />The narrator of Chronicle of a Death Foretold  presents many instances and situations that could have saved the life of  Nasar yet failed to do so, underscoring one of Garcia Marquez's signature  themes--irony.<br />Some of the town's citizens, like Victoria Guzman, Nasar's  cook, have private reasons for wishing him dead.  Many assume that Nasar  must surely be aware of the danger himself, while others simply discount  the Vicario brothers announcement as drunken boasting.<br />By the time Nasar  walks onto the dock to meet the visiting bishop's boat, everyone there  knows how and why he's going to be killed.  And, when the Vicario brothers  begin their attack, no one lifts a finger to stop it.<br />During the final,  surrealistic pages of the book, Nasar rises from the bloodied ground and  dusts off his own entrails before &quot;entering the house of his  mother&quot; and announcing, &quot;They've killed me, Wene child,&quot; as  he falls on his face in the kitchen.<br />Garcia Marquez illuminates, not only  the duplicity behind the Latin &quot;code of honor,&quot; but the hypocrisy  of the women as well, a hypocrisy that makes a mockery of the community's  strict code of behavior.<br />The little understood &quot;cult of  machismo&quot; is also explored and Garcia Marquez shows us how the men's  strict adherence to that cult contributed heavily to the death of  Nasar.<br />While the narrator of Chronicle of a Death Foretold is unable to  come to any firm conclusions regarding Nasar's death, he does show us the  overwhelming inevitability of it all.  Too many forces, including apathy,  assumption and even chance are all moving in the same direction and all  contribute to the final, harrowing outcome.  This sense of the inevitable  pervades every line of the book and we know there could have been no way  the life of Nasar could have been spared.<br />Although told in a  straightforward (though non-linear) manner, Chronicle of a Death Foretold  is not a straightforward story.  It is complex, shocking and powerful and  surrelistic in its approach.  It concerns itself with the power of death in  life and how one death affects and transforms an entire community.<br />The  language used in Chronicle of a Death Foretold is, at times, shocking and  even brutal, but it is perfectly suited to the shocking and brutal story it  tells.<br />In an early interview, Garcia Marquez mentionedthe debt he owned  to Juan Rulfo, author of Pedro Paramo.  Although Chronicle of a Death  Foretold is highly original, Rulfo's influence can clearly be seen.  The  two novellas parallel each other in their surrealistic qualities, the  ever-present sense of death and meaninglessness and the inevitability of  life's final outcome.  Both works are characterized by unrelieved darkness  and a descent into something unamed, from which it is impossible to  return.<br />As with all of Garcia Marquez's works, this book is flawless. It  is a highly rewarding, yet disturbing work that forces us to look at the  inevitable presence of death in life and the uncertainty of even the next  moment.	2000-06-17
2419625:US	50718004	RXTK2RWBH0PCV	0486221903	260001408	Against the Grain (Ã Rebours)	Books	5	114	117	N	N	The Ultimate Social Dropout	Des Esseintes, the protagonist of Against the Grain (A Rebours), is, without a doubt, literature's ultimate social dropout.  Dissatisfied with the limitations of the natural world, he hides from human society,  constructing his life so that even his own servants are invisible to  him.<br />While looking at others with disdain (and this is putting it  mildly!), Des Esseintes's opinion of himself grows ever higher until he has  &quot;no hope of linking up with a mind which, like his own, took pleasure  in a life of studious decrepitude; no hope of associating an intelligence  as sharp and wayward as his own with that of an author or  scholar.&quot;<br />Just as Des Esseintes eschews the natural, he embraces the  artificial.  In an early chapter, he chooses the colors for his country  house near Paris based on their appearance under artificial light.  He  comes to the conclusion that one can obtain a satisfactory sea bath at home  because &quot;without stirring out of Pris it is possible to obtain the  health-giving impression of sea-bathing...for all this involves is a visit  to the Bain Vigier, an establishment to be seen down on a pontoon moored in  the middle of the Seine.&quot;<br />Eventually, Des Esseintes moves beyond  mere artifice and seeks to remove from his life the natural in all its  aspects.  When he becomes unable to ingest food orally, he feeds himself  through enemas and finds this method far superior.<br />Des Esseintes's realm  of artifice soon becomes his only god.  He is safe in his virtuality,  enjoying travel without risks, lust without passion and social interaction  only with imagined beings.<br />The heart and soul of Against the Grain is  really the debate between nature and artifice and man's role as the creator  of his own universe.  Des Esseintes is the ultimate aesthete; a man whose  desire to obliterate the natural is transformed into the limitless  experience of artistic creation.<br />Against the Grain represents typical  French decadent literature in which the whole is subordinate to the parts.   It must be understood that decadence in literature is an aesthetic, rather  than a moral conception; the opposite of classicism, in which each part  must subordinate itself to the enhancement of the whole.  Each has its  virtures, and in order to appreciate one to the fullest, we must learn to  understand and appreciate the other.<br />Against the Grain may well be the  greatest novel to emerge from the French decadent experience, and it has  exerted much influence over later writers.  It is the fullest, most  detailed account of the search for artifice, a search that is particularly  akin to today's virtual world of cyberspace.  As such, Against the Grain is  more relevant than ever and should be highly recommended, even required,  reading.	2000-06-17
2435326:US	50718004	RB6SXBE1CC8IW	0140119906	702863006	Love in the Time of Cholera (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	193	207	N	N	THE MANY ASPECTS OF LOVE	Love in the Time of Cholera takes place circa 1880-1930 in an unnamed Caribbean seaport city.  The three main characters form a triangle of love, with the hypotneuse being the quintessential romantic, Florentino Ariza, a  man whose life is dedicated to love in all its aspects.<br />As a young  apprentice telegrapher, Florentino Ariza falls hopelessly in love with the  haughty teenager, Fermina Daza.  Although the two barely meet, they manage  to carry on a passionate affair via letters and telegrams, until one day,  Fermina Daza, realizing that Florentino Ariza is more &quot;shadow than  substance,&quot; rejects him and marries the wealthy dandy, Dr. Juvenal  Urbino instead.<br />Florentino Ariza, who has sworn to love Fermina Daza  forever, is, of course, stricken to the core, but Fermina's marriage is  nothing he can't handle.  As one century closes and another begins,  Florentino Ariza rises through the ranks of the River Company of the  Caribbean and sets off on a series of 622 erotic adventures, both  &quot;long term liaisons and countless fleeting adventures,&quot; all of  which he chronicled and all the while nurturing a fervent belief that his  ultimate destiny was with Fermina Daza.<br />Fifty-one years, nine months and  four days after Fermina's wedding, on Pentecost Sunday, fate intervenes and  Fermina becomes a free woman once again when Dr. Juvenal Urbino dies  attempting to retrieve his wayward parrot from a mango tree.  Seeing his  chance at last, Florentino Ariza visits Fermina Daza after the funeral and  declares, &quot;I have waited for this opportunity for more than half a  century, to repeat to you once again my vow of eternal fidelity and  everlasting love.&quot;  Fermina's reaction is not quite what Florentino  was hoping for.  She orders him out of the house with the words, &quot;And  don't show your face again for the years of life that are left to you...I  hope there are very few of them.&quot;<br />Fermina Daza, however, hasn't  quite gotten Florentino Ariza out of her system and the story ends,  symbolically, with a river journey into eternity.<br />It's hard to believe  that Gabriel Garcia Marquez has written a book that is better than One  Hundred Years of Solitude, but with Love in the Time of Cholera, he has  done just that.  Not quite magical realism, it is still magic of the  highest order and it is pure Garcia Marquez.  An exquisite writer, Garcia  Marquez tells his tales with passion, control and unblinking humor with  just the right amount of the fabulous woven in.<br />Unlike some of his  slightly claustrophobic works, this novel has an almost epic quality and  Garcia Marquez handles the shifts in time and character perfectly; from the  opening lines you know you're in the hands of a master.  The book is  flawless:  Not one word is out of place, not one sentence is awkward.   Lesser authors might slip into the maudlin when writing an entire book on  the many aspects of love, but Garcia Marquez never gives us less than  crystalline insight into what it really means to live, to love and to live  a life of love.  The last chapter alone is a masterpiece no one who's  loved, or loved and lost, will ever forget.<br />As the book closes, we sail  down the river with Garcia Marquez at the helm, safe in the knowledge that  he is a navigator of the highest order, one who can pilot the river of love  unerringly.  He certainly does just that in this shining, sometimes funny  and always uplifting book of flawless perfection.	2000-06-09
2446291:US	50718004	RSRS1SCNCLTGS	0679750150	483468836	The Sailor Who Fell from Grace with the Sea	Books	5	109	115	N	N	BARBARIC LYRICISM	In post-World War II Yokohama, Japan, a seaport town, the sailor Ryuji, has become disillusioned with his life at sea and finds himself craving what the land has to offer.  Ultimately, he marries the widow, Fusako, the  owner of a Western imports shop and mother of Noboru, an adolescent boy  struggling to come to terms with his own sense of identity and place in the  world.  These three people, as well as the presence of the land and the  sea, itself, form the central characters in Yukio Mishima's haunting  masterpiece of tragedy, The Sailor Who Fell From Grace With the Sea.<br />As a  true sailor, one whose ultimate quest is inexorably bound to the sea, Ryuji  has become Noboru's hero.  In Noboru's eyes, Ryuji can do no wrong--until  one day Noboru sees Ryuji and Fusako making love.  At that point, the young  boy realizes his hero has fallen.  Ryuji has lost his attachment to the  sea, has failed at his quest and is becoming more and more a lover of life  on land.  When he finally falls under Fusako's spell and forsakes the sea  entirely, Noboru, who, himself, has come to feel that only violence can  grant him the power and control he seeks, realizes that Ryuji's only  salvation lies in death.<br />The Sailor Who Fell From Grace With the Sea is a  highly symbolic and multi-layered novel.  While it is not necessary to have  knowledge of Japanese culture or politics in order to enjoy the book, it  does add yet another dimension of meaning to the story as well as deepen an  understanding of Mishima, himself.<br />Noboru clearly represents  &quot;traditional&quot; Japan.  His values are those of an old, patriarchal  Japan, and when the story opens, Ryuji symbolizes all the values Noboru  holds most dear--stoicism, strength of spirit and the Samurai  tradition.<br />Fusako, on the other hand, embodies the &quot;new,  Westernized&quot; Japan, and as Ryuji comes, more and more, to embrace both  Fusako's lifestyle and &quot;new&quot; Japan, his fall from grace  continues,a state Noboru's honor cannot abide.  <br />The book can thus be  seen as a metaphor representing modern-day Japan; a Japan that many feel  will only become truly great once more when she forcibly purges herself of  all Western influence.<br />Like all of Mishima's works, this book is  astounding in its juxtaposition of savage barbarism and lyrical beauty,  with strong currents of eroticism throughout.  Mishima wisely chooses to  use third person multiple viewpoint, heightening our understanding of the  three major characters, for we learn to see them not only as they see  themselves, but also as others see them.<br />Although The Sailor Who Fell  From Grace With the Sea is a short book, its impact is enormously powerful.   Mishima was an amazing writer who was never afraid to venture into the  darkest regions of the human soul.  His work forces us to do the same, and,  in my opinion, we are all better for having done it.	2000-06-02
2446548:US	50718004	R2CMD1CHNGTNIG	0679775439	730850906	The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle: A Novel	Books	5	141	168	N	N	ORIGINAL AND BIZARRE	The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle begins with a pot of spaghetti about to boil over as the voluntarily out of work protagonist, Toru Okada parries an anonymous obscene phone call just in time to receive a call from his wife,  Kumiko, who orders him to begin a search for the couple's missing cat,  Noboru Watanabe, named for her politically important brother.  If the above  sounds pretty breathless and confusing, you'll be surprised to learn  there's a lot, lot more.  The lost Noboru Watanabe is simply the device  Murakami uses to set this densely-layered, often bizarre book in  motion.<br />Toru's search for the lost cat introduces him to the novel's  other characters, who move in and out of his life and lead him into an  ever-enlarging labyrinth.  There is the Lolita-like May Kasahara, Toru's  neighbor, who regards the thirty year old Toru as &quot;interesting&quot;  and calls him Mr. Wind-Up Bird.  Even more bizarre, are the two sisters and  psychics, Malta and Creta Kano, who invade Toru's dreams as well as his  reality.  (After having psychic sex with Toru, Creta later appears naked in  his bed, and, as to how she got there, she doesn't have a clue.)<br />In the  meantime, Toru's wife, Kumiko disappears, much to the delight of her  politician brother, who detests Toru and vice versa.  And, by the way, the  politician brother just happened to have raped Creta!<br />When Toru learns  Kumiko has left him for a man who's better in bed, he's surprisingly  surprised, although he shouldn't be and neither should we; signs of her  adultery have been rampant.<br />With nothing else to do about the matter,  Toru lowers himself to the bottom of an empty well, the better to meditate  on his unpredictable predicament.  But May takes the ladder away and three  days later, after Creta has rescued him, Toru emerges with a blue mark on  his face, one that gives him special healing powers.<br />At this point things  really become confused.<br />Toru's mark of healing is recognized by Nutmeg  Akasako as being similar to the one her father bore.  Lt. Mamiya has also  entered the story, recounting a fantastic tale of wartime espionage that  just happens to involve time spent at the bottom of a well!<br />Much in The  Wind-Up Bird Chronicle develops around the elements of chance, destiny and  responsibility.  Characters drift in and out of Toru's life, yet each pulls  him into his or her own world.  <br />Some may think this novel tends to  digress a bit too much, but that's all a part of Murakami's trademark, for  he's well-known to prefer freefalling through his work rather than planning  it out carefully.  The result, however, is a cumulative effect of bizarre  happenings and black comedy, with Toru being the integral link.  Although a  recurring theme in Murakami's oeuvre is that of childishness, Toru is, at  times, both childish in his innocence and cynical in his outlook regarding  his fellow man.<br />Toru is a protagonist who sees, hears, feels and reacts,  rather than does.  He attracts a large assortment of unusual characters  rather than actively pursuing them.  Murakami's prose has a distinctive  &quot;Western&quot; feel and, although his characters are Japanese people,  living in Japan, they could be anyone, anywhere.<br />Those looking for the  more traditional Japanese novel should look to other authors instead, most  notably Yukio Mishima and Osamu Dazai.<br />Surreal and sprawling, The Wind-Up  Bird Chronicle is a detective story, a history lesson and a satire.  It is  a big book that unites Murakami's signature themes of alienation,  dislocation and nameless fears in the voice of Toru, aka,  &quot;Everyman.&quot;  It's an enormous accomplishment that, believe it or  not, all starts with a pot of spaghetti and one lost cat.	2000-06-02
2457142:US	50718004	R1ARM0J3WZ7XGS	0802133908	163605681	Pedro Paramo	Books	5	144	152	N	N	SURREAL AND HAUNTING	Nothing in literature can prepare you for the impact of Pedro Paramo for nothing in literature compares to this novel from Mexican author Juan Rulfo.  Published in 1955, and Rulfo's only novel, Pedro Paramo is the  story of Juan Preciado's quest to find both his roots and his father.  Fulfilling his mother's dying wish, Juan sets out for the rural Mexican  village of Comala, the village of his mother's memories, the village where  &quot;she sighed about going back,&quot; and where Pedro Paramo, lover,  overlord and murderer, spent his childhood and his youth.  What Juan finds  in Comala is something very different from what he expected, something very  different from what the reader expects, for Comala is truly a village of  the damned, a hell that one literally descends into, never to return.  As  Juan Preciado meets first one, then another of the inhabitants of Comala,  he comes to an astonishing revelation--everyone in Comala, including his  father, is dead. The second half of Pedro Paramo concerns itself with the  reasons why Comala became a village of the dead and the emphasis then  shifts to the enigmatic character of Susana San Juan, the only woman Pedro  Pramo ever truly loved and the one who was forever denied him.  Although  few details are provided about Susana San Juan, we come to see her as the  epitome of two archetypes:  the heavenly goddess and the overtly sexual  madwoman.  When she dies and ascends into heaven, in front of Pedro  Paramo's own eyes, the fate of Comala and its residents becomes forever  sealed.  Although this small book may seem to lack structure (there are no  chapter breaks), it is highly structured.  It is, however, a structure of  silences, hanging threads, truncated scenes, and even non-time.  Rulfo  moves backwards and forewards between the past (the Comala of the living)  and the present (the Comala of the dead). The author moves seamlessly  between first person and third person; scenes cut into one another and move  effortlessly from one location to another and yet nothing is jarring,  nothing is out of place.  Although more horrifying than any other book I  have ever read, Pedro Paramo does not &quot;fit&quot; into any genre and  Rulfo uses none of the usual writer's techniques to enhance his story.  Rulfo simply uses straightforward narration, moving from conscious thought  to memory, from the world of the living to the world of the dead.  In an  interview in 1980, Rulfo, himself, said that he wanted to allow the reader  to participate in the telling of the story, in the filling in of the  blanks.  Pedro Paramo is a shadowy, eerie, haunting work, and one whose  impact on literature cannot be over-emphasized.  Gabriel Garcia Marquez has  called this book the most influential reading of his early writing years  and has admitted to memorizing the entire text.  Yet Pedro Paramo  completely lacks the humor of Garcia Marquez (in fact, its bleakness is  entirely unrelieved) and it is definitely not magical realism. Although  this book defies classification, it is most definitely a masterpiece and  most definitely one-of-a kind.	2000-05-27
2462709:US	50718004	R2XTE6G0VS11PB	0375703829	22806037	Silk	Books	5	87	89	N	N	THE EMPHEMERAL SOUNDS OF SILENCE	Silk, by Alessandro Baricco, is the story of Herv Joncour, a French silk breeder living in the small town of Lavilledieu.  In 1861, when epidemics were striking the hatcheries of Europe, Joncour began to travel to Syria  and Egypt to acquire healthy eggs for the town.  When his friend, Baldabiou  tells his of the extraordinary silk produced in Japan, Joncour embarks on  the first of four journeys to what then was determined to be &quot;the end  of the world.&quot;  Traveling by train, horseback, and ship, Joncour  always takes the same route and always deals with an enigmatic man named  Hara Kei, &quot;the most elusive man in Japan, master of all that the world  contrived to carry off the island.&quot;  But more important to Joncour  than Hara Kei is Hara Kei's concubine, a young girl, of which we learn  nothing, excpept that &quot;her eyes did not have an Oriental slant.&quot;   Even though they do not touch and do not speak, Joncour, a true romantic,  falls instantly in love with this strange and beautiful girl and comes to  believe that his love is returned, although by his fourth and final trip to  Japan, he does resign himself to the fact that she will remain forever out  of his reach.  Civil was in Japan has torn Hara Kei's village apart and  Joncour returns to Lavilledieu and to his faithful and loving wife Hlne,  resigned that &quot;in the whole world there was nothing beautiful  left.&quot;  Now a wealthy man, Joncour settles down to life in Lavilledieu  with Hlne util the arrival of a letter, posted in Belgium, arrives.   Written entirely in Japanese, Joncour believes it looks &quot;like a  catalogue of the footprints of little birds, fantastically meticulous in  its compilation.&quot;  When the letter is finally translated, Joncour  learns the earth-shattering truth, truth he should have known all along,  and his life, as well as the lives of others, are shown to be nothing more  than a heart-breaking string of missed opportunities and the vulnerability  of assumptions.  What is most powerful in Silk is not what is said, but  what is left unsaid.  The book is highly stylized and enigmatic.  We are  never given any details about Hara Kei's concubine, Joncour's journeys to  the East, or Hlne's feelings about her husband.  Yet, I find I must  disagree with those reviewers who criticized the book as containing little  character development.  I felt the characters were developed most  excellently and by the book's end, I felt I had come to know most of them  and was certainly able to identify with their plight.  And, although the  writing is lyrical, with strong undercurrents of eroticism throughout, it  is both ephemeral and spare.  It is most definitely prose and not poetry.   Much in this book is reiterative narration, leading us to believe that  nothing that happens in Japan upsets the calm day-to-day existence of  Joncour and his wife in Lavilledieu.  Even late in his life, Joncour spends  his days &quot;with a liturgy of habits that succeeded in warding off  sadness.&quot;  Silk is a small, slim book, but one that packs a lifetime  of experience between its covers.  It is a stylistic tour de force, a  haunting haiku, and a heart-breaking allegory of life as a quest,  ultimately unfulfilled.  In short, it is a masterpiece of love and loss  that is well worth reading time and time again.	2000-05-24
2465704:US	50718004	R2DF85YUSDZXPP	0802130119	778351106	The Master and Margarita	Books	5	87	97	N	N	ABSOLUTELY ONE OF A KIND	This extraordinary and unique book opens in 1930s Moscow during the darkest period of Stalin's repressive reign.  Near Patriarch Ponds, two writers sit on a bench engaged in a discussion regarding the nature of  Jesus.  True to their times, both writers devoutly discount his existence.   As their discourse continues, they are joined by a third man, a  well-dressed stranger who claims not only to believe in the existence of  the historical Jesus, but to have actually been present at Jesus's trial  and crucifixion.  Unbeknownst to the two writers, this stranger is none  other than Satan, himself, who is now calling himself Woland.  The next  chapter takes us to Yershalaim (Jerusalem) and Pontius Pilate's  interrogation of Yeshua Ha-Nozri (Jesus).  Much to Pilate's dismay, Yeshua  freely admits to all of the charges brought against him.  Pilate, although  finding himself captivated by Yeshua and desiring to free him, has no  choice but to order his execution instead.  Yeshua is sentenced to death  and crucified and Pilate grows more and more disturbed.  Back in Moscow,  things have taken a bizarre turn.  When Woland's prediction of the death of  the writer Berlioz turns out to be true, another writer, Ivan the Homeless  is unceremoniously carted off to an asylum and the esteemed Dr. Stravinsky.   As heads roll and people are driven mad, Ivan meets his neighbor in the  asylum, one known only as The Master.  The Master, also a writer, has been  working on a novel centering on Pontius Pilate and the story, not  coincidentally, is more than similar to Woland's eyewitness version.  Ivan  also learns of The Master's love for the beautiful Margarita with whom he  shared both an apartment and an affair until the rejection of his novel  drove him insane.  Margarita, meanwhile, is living in a loveless marriage  and spends her days pining away for her lost Master, knowing nothing of his  whereabouts.  The story then moves back to Yershalaim and Pilate's struggle  to come to termswith the death of Yeshua.  He is visited by Matthew Levi  and subsequently orders the death of Judas of Kiriath (Judas Iscariot) for  his betryal of Yeshua.  Moving back to Moscow again, we learn the reason  for Woland's visit.  He wants to give a Grand Ball and is in search of a  hostess--a hostess named Margarita.  Margarita instantly agrees and the  Grand Ball proceeds, apparently lasting for hours and hours with the guests  having been chosen from among the most sinful and corrupt of all the  deceased.  With the dawning of the new day, Woland, who is pleased with  Margarita's performance, tells her he will grant her her fondest wish.  Of  course, that wish is to be reunited with The Master.  How this request is  accomplished is one of the most extremely inventive passages in all of  literature and involves not only Woland, but his wily accomplices (Azazello  and Behemoth), Matthew Levi and Pilate, himself.  Suffice it to say, all  turns out well for all intended and The Master and Margarita eventually  come to reside together for all time.  In The Master and Margarita,  Bulgakov has created, not only a technical masterpiece of flawless writing,  but also one of immense creativity, making use of innuendo, iconography,  metaphor and satire.  This is a multi-layed book, encompassing many themes,  drawn with a painstaking commitment to detail.  Although, at first glance,  the two concurrently running stories seem to bear no relation to each  other, a closer examination shows us just how creative Bulgalov was and how  great was his genius.  As the story of Yeshua and The Master are occurring  nearly two thousand years apart, it would seem, on the surface, impossible  to link them.  Bulgakov, however, forgets this span of years and tells the  story by the day and the hour instead.  As the Easter weekend unfolds, so  do his stories, just as though they were occurring each at the same time  but in different locations.  Bulgakov did not intend for the story of  Yeshua to be of historical significance.  Instead, it is used as a device  to further the satire of Stalinist Russia.  For it is within the social and  political issues of Stalinist Russia that the true basis of this work is  grounded.  Banned until the 1960s (and then embraced) the story of The  Master is a veiled belief of Bulgakov's in the importance of his own work.   However, one does not need a knowledge of Russia or Russian politics to  enjoy this extraordinary book.  It is an entertaining read in its own  right.  If one understands the subtext, it is all the more enjoyable.  The  Master and Margarita represents one of the greatest literary works of the  twentieth century and one that has certainly never been equalled.  Anyone  who is serious about literature absolutely cannot afford to pass this up.	2000-05-22
2466030:US	50718004	RJDEEQ3C9L6XZ	067972267X	76818172	A Pale View of Hills	Books	4	108	119	N	N	ÄSKS MORE QUESTIONS THAN IT ANSWERS	A Pale View of Hills is a haunting and lyrical book that ends up asking more questions than it answers.  And Kazuo Ishiguro is such a masterful storyteller that we can't help but wonder if this is not exactly as it  should be.  The story opens in modern day London, where Etsuko, a Japanese  born women of middle-age is attempting to come to terms with the suicide of  her elder daughter, Keiko.  In doing so, she finds herself drawn to the  past and a particular summer in Nagasaki when she embarked on a strange  friendship with an enigmatic woman named Sachiko and Sachiko's young  daughter, Mariko.  Ishiguro's movements backwards and forwards in time are  often abrupt and the reader can sometimes find himself slightly  disoriented, but this still does not detract from the quiet beauty and  lyricism of his prose.  For Ishiguro is  a master of lyrical prose, writing  passages of unequalled beauty that authors like Anne Rice can only dream  of.  This is a most delicate novel, encompassing many themes, and one that  ultimately becomes macabre--it may take more than one reading to absorb its  full impact.  It is definitely a small masterpiece, and the only reason I  gave it four stars instead of five is because I believe Ishiguro should  have revealed the truth of this extraordinary tale piece by piece, layer by  layer, like peeling away the skin of an onion.  As it is, the truth hits us  in the face like a snowball out of nowhere and many readers may miss it  entirely.  A pity, for this is a work of extraodinary genius and beauty;  one of the most moving books I have read in many years and one whose  emotional impact will haunt me for many years to come.  And I would not  have expected less from a writer as talented as Kazuo Ishiguro.	2000-05-22
2466307:US	50718004	R2WCNQYU17IHKN	0156001314	444581246	The Name of the Rose: including the Author's Postscript	Books	5	151	162	N	N	MOODY AND ATMOSPHERIC, WITH BRILLIANT TOUCHES OF COMEDY	It is November, 1327.  Adso of Melk, the narrator, has accompanied William of Baskerville to a remote, wealthy Franciscan abbey in the mountains of northern Italy.  Upon arriving, William discovers that a murder has taken  place and the body of the monk, Adelmo, has been discovered outside the  abbey walls.  The abbot, Abo, is very concerned and charges William with  solving the murders.  For, not only is the safety of the monks in jeopardy,  a papal delegation from Pope John XXII in Avignon could well use the  murders as an excuse for investigating the abbey, something Abo definitely  wants to avoid.  By the time the papal delegation, led by two inquisitors  arrives, the situation at the abbey has worsened.  Two more monks are dead  and two more die soon afterward.  The abbot's worst fears are realized when  the papal inquisitors learn he has been sheltering monks who were once  followers of the condemed heretic, Fra Dolcino.  Although the abott  dismisses Willliam, he remains and a few hours later, the mystery is  solved, two more monks have died and the monastery has been consumed by  fire.  The Name of the Rose is first and foremost a mystery of the highest  order, and it is possible to enjoy it on that level alone.  But it is also  a charming roman a clef, something I think many readers have missed.  We  don't have to look far to realize Sherlock Holmes in the guise of William  of Baskerville or Adso as Dr. Watson.  The blind Spaniard, Jorge of Burgos  is easily recognized as the Argentinian writer Jorge Luis Borges.  Eco also  challenges us by thinly disguising figures from postwar Italian politics as  various other members of the abbey.  The figures in the book thus  correspond to other figures in different books or in real life.  Each  figure also represents a metaphysical concept:  William, reason; Adso,  mysticism; Jorge, evil, and then, in true medieval fashion, characters are  thus pitted one against the other as opposing forces.  I hate to see  comparisons of this marvelous work of literature to Iain Pears's, An  Instance of the Fingerpost.  The books are as unlike as night is to day.   While An Instance of the Fingerpost goes to great lengths to point out that  ultimate truth does exist and can, indeed, be realized, The Name of the  Rose is, at its heart, a book about uncertainty, especially the uncertainty  of truth.  In An Instance of the Fingerpost, the reader is asked to  interpret a collection of signs and symbols, which, when interpreted in the  one correct manner, will inevitably lead to the identity and motive of the  criminal, i.e., the truth.  In The Name of the Rose, the search for  ultimate truth is far more ambiguous.  Near the end of the book, William  tells Adso that many hypotheses, false though they may be, can still lead  one to a correct solution.  And, while certainty is what's pursued in An  Instance of the Fingerpost, certainty remains an impossibility in The Name  of the Rose.  As William says to Adso, &quot;The only truth lies in  learning to free ourselves from the insane passion for the truth.&quot;   Umberto Eco's strength lies in his plotting and his layering.  His books  are like a collection of boxes, each one opening to reveal yet another and  another.  I found no such layering in An Instance of the Fingerpost.  And,  finally, while An Instance of the Fingerpost was certainly a phenomenon,  The Name of the Rose is definitely much more.  This book is literature, a  timeless classic to be enjoyed by many generations yet to come.	2000-05-22
2482532:US	50718004	R1YBP9BHTCI7XZ	0140282033	598461998	Chocolat	Books	1	78	103	N	N	IT'S A SHAME	It's a shame when a bad book like this earns undeserved praise and attention and other, better-written books are virtually ignored.  The basic idea of Chocolat (good versus evil) is always interesting, even if a bit  overdone, but Harris's execution of that idea leaves more than a little to  be desired.  Vianne Rocher, a mysterious new arrival in the small  southwestern French village of Lansquenet, is far to vague to be  &quot;good,&quot; and Father Reynaud, the village priest, and the author's  representation of evil, is really only a tormented soul, one to pity rather  than hate.  The battle between Vianne and Reynaud is completely lacking in  tension and momentum and the story soon becomes nothing more than an  extensive exercise in extreme boredom.  The other characters are just as  poorly developed and actually come off as cliches.  Armande, who could have  been delightful, under the guidance of a more talented author, was reduced  by Harris to a caricature of an elderly, stubborn, persnickety old woman,  used to getting her own way.  While she could have been lovable, had she  said, &quot;Whee,&quot; one more time, even I would have felt like punching  her in the face, eighty-one years old notwithstanding.  The character of  Josephine was so overly-melodramatic she was nothing more than silly and  earned my contempt rather than my pity.  Much of the book is vague.  The  author seems to delight in being coy with us and coyness in the service of  plot or characterization is never good.  Another thing that I found jarring  was the fact that Harris constantly switched from present to past tense  with no rhyme or reason.  Other, better and more experienced writers, make  a choice, so should Harris.  It could only serve to improve her prose and  she does need to improve it.  Harris leads us on a merry goose chase,  making us believe there will be a huge, climactic showdown between the  Church, as personified by Reynaud, and a pagan Festival of Chocolate, as  personified by Vianne.  However, all this buildup only leads to one huge  letdown, as Reynaud simply caves in and the chocolate festival is barely  mentioned.  Finally, as a 100% Frenchwoman, myself, with a home in a small  French village, I found the scenes of French village life to be 95%  inaccurate.  I got absolutely no sense of &quot;Frenchness&quot; from this  book at all and found it totally lacking in atmosphere.  It is a shame this  book made it past an editor, much less to publication.  Chocolat will leave  a bitter taste in my mouth for the short time I care to remember it.	2000-05-12
2495050:US	50718004	REAM1JS1CVXC4	0300070640	412582330	Faust the Theologian	Books	5	49	53	N	N	FASCINATING AND ORIGINAL	This book is a beautifully written masterpiece, detailing the theological implications of Goethe's Faust. The book offers reflections on Goethe's statement that he was a pantheist when it came to science, a polytheist in  art and a monotheist in ethics. For the first time, the author uses  this  statement in the analysis of Faust's development as a theologian, showing  this masterpiece in a surprising and totally original way. The analysis  begins with a discussion on Faust's role as a natural scientist or  pantheist. Faust's mistrust of traditional knowledge is examined and his  interests in geology, oceanography and optics are considered. The analysis  also includes his perception of nature as a realm inspirited throughout by  a single, unifying Power. After the analysis in concluded, the author  follows Faust on his journeys to the two Walpurgis Nights. It is here that  Faust delights in the polytheistic extravaganzas of Germanic and most  especially Greek mythology. In conclusion, the author describes the  operatic finale of the book, when Faust's spirit in drawn upward to  salvation by the Eternal Feminine. This event marks Faust's evolution into  moral philosopher and monotheist. This analysis reveals thematic unities  and a dialectical development of Faust's characters that has gone unnoticed  until now.	2000-05-05
2504651:US	50718004	R3BOO1JDKK9AM6	1852423811	803254762	Floria	Books	5	45	49	N	N	TOSCA TRIUMPHANT	In Floria Tosca, Paola Capriolo has captured the dark essence of Sardou's Tosca most perfectly.  Told exclusively from the viewpoint of Baron Scarpia, chief of police, this extraordinarily elegant tale recounts the consequences of people who are driven to go to far:  people who cross the  line, step over the threshold, give way to dark passions that might be  better served if held in check.  Although Floria Tosca is an erotic tale of  sadist and masochist, Capriolo's rendering is so perfect we cannot fail to  be amazed at the balance she strikes between love and hate, abstinence and  desire, pleasure and pain.  Everything about this book is perfect:  the  characterizations, the pacing, the restrained melodrama, and most  especially, Capriolo's elegantly archaic prose.  She writes in such a way  that we can't help but believe we are truly reading the words of Scarpia,  himself, words he set down in his own hand on a mid-summer's night in 1860s  Rome.  The fact that Cavarodossi never appears &quot;onstage&quot; is a  credit to Capriolo, for he is never missed.  It is the erotically  passionate interplay between Tosca and Scarpia that forms the real heart  and soul of this story.  Opera lovers can't fail to fall in love with  Floria Tosca.  And even those who've never seen an opera will be astonished  at the eloquence of Capriolo's style.  If I had to sum this book up in only  one word, the only word I could choose would be, perfection.	2000-04-30
2504930:US	50718004	R1XKA2NSMR2ZDA	0517589532	831976095	Martha Stewart's Pies & Tarts	Books	2	65	83	N	N	YUCK!	Well, the illustrations in this book are beautiful and Martha's pie crust, as well as her lemon curd, are absolutely the best, but the pies and tarts in this book are simply the worst I've ever tasted!  Really, I've tasted kindergarten paste that had more flavor than these recipes.  As a seasoned  baker, I do know how to substitute ingredients and add more spice, but why  should anyone have to?  And what about those who can't?  After all, the  book is not titled, Martha Stewart's Exotic Pies and Tarts for the  Experienced Baker Only, however, it should be.  What good is a book if most  people really can't use it?  Yes, I can make all those lovely grape  clusters, leaves and tendrils that adorn Martha's Concord Grape Pie, but I  think most people are really looking for something a little more basic.   Okay, final analysis:  if you're looking for the out-of-the-ordinary (and  the tasteless) then buy this book.  If you just want some great pie and  tart recipes, try The Pie and Pastry Bible.  You won't go wrong there.	2000-04-30
2505326:US	50718004	R2FXJIIBMEX00H	0809243148	214117813	Love Letters: An Illustrated Anthology	Books	5	45	45	N	N	TIMELESS	Everyone alive should know the joy of receiving a genuine love letter.  How the sight of it makes the hand tremble and the heart beat faster, the first breathless reading, the second just to savour.  But, as much as love letters can delight, they also have the power to wound.  While Cupid's  arrow aims straight for the heart, it can bring pain as often as joy.  In  this beautiful, lavishly illustrated volume, Lady Antonia Fraser has  gathered together some of the most beautiful and timeless love letters ever  written.  She chose them, she tells us, based on her own personal  preference, but the reader need have no worries on that score, for Antonia  Fraser's taste is, as always, flawless, her style, impeccable.  She has  chosen the letters that convey the most emotion, those that speak to the  heart, from the heart.  And, she has grouped the letters according to the  emotions they convey.  While many of the letters were written by people  whose names one cannot fail to recognize, the author has also included  poignant letters from lesser known persons.  My personal favorite is the  passionate letter of John Keats to Fanny Brawne.  These tortured letters  have achieved almost the same status as Keats' poetry and are among the  most moving in the English language.  If you love of if you feel unloved;  if you seek inspiration or consolation; if you just want to be moved and  delighted beyond measure, this is the book for you.	2000-04-30
2506754:US	50718004	R3P5Q8SIZGBLER	0375404236	347062069	Ocean Sea	Books	5	47	49	N	N	SAVAGE BEAUTY	Alessandro Baricco's Ocean Sea is a lyrically beautiful, but cruel, allegory of the secret hopes, dreams, fears, quests and horrors that drive us all and often, against our wishes, consume our lives.  And, no matter  how hard we deny it, there comes a time in every person's life when he or  she must confront his deepest, darkest secrets, a time when they can no  longer be suppressed.  For it is only when we confront our fears and our  obsessions, our hopes and our dreams, and yes, even our horrors, that they  lose their power over us and we are finally restored to wholeness.   Alessandro Baricco has assembled a cast of broken, disparate characters,  each seeking the restorative powers of the ocean sea, that elusive place  where fantasy meets reality, where love and horror become inexorably woven  into the fabric of life.  Baricco's prose is certainly not the flowery,  overwrought &quot;purple prose&quot; of Anne Rice or Michael Ondaatje.   Instead, it evokes the lyrical skeletalness of Debussy--beautiful and  difficult, yet barely there, like the edge of the sea, itself.  Savigny's  narrative, in Book II, is one of the finest examples of the power and  beauty of language I have ever encountered.  If I have any criticism of  Ocean Sea, it is the fact that the ultimate fate of Professor Bartleboom  did not seem in character with the savage beauty evoked in the rest of the  book.  I almost felt as though I had been dropped inside another story  altogether.  But allegory is difficult to write and even more difficult to  read, and Ocean Sea is no exception.  I doubt that anyone alive can absorb  this exquisite book's impact in only one reading.  Like Silk, another of  Baricco's works, Ocean Sea is a masterpiece.  A small, but flawless, gem  that will astound you and haunt you, but will never, ever let you alone.	2000-04-29
2538466:US	50718004	RJVNQ53BM1GAH	0425167720	89472327	An Instance of the Fingerpost	Books	4	36	42	N	N	THE TRUTH IN PLAIN SIGHT	An Instance of the Fingerpost is an almost thoroughly engrossing mystery set in Restoration England and revolving around the murder of Dr. Robert Grove, fellow of the New College at Oxford.  What sets this novel apart from other period portraits is Pears' use of four different, yet very  convincing narratives, each designed to reveal the &quot;truth&quot; of the  murder of Dr. Grove.  The novel begins with the narrative of Marco da Cola,  a gentleman scholar from Venice.  While da Cola argues that he only wishes  to set down a true record of the events that took place in 1663, his record  actually poses more questions that it answers.  It is the next three  narrators who attempt to answer and refute da Cola's narrative with one of  their own.  As we read, we come to realize that while each of Pears' four  narrators is sure that he and he alone possesses all the facts necessary to  name Grove's murderer, all but one has reached his conclusions through  faulty logic born of a false premise.  And, while all of Pears' narrators  practice many decptions, we soon realize that no deception recurs more  frequently than does self-deception.  It is Marco da Cola's investigation,  with Dr. Lower, that ultimately results in the conviction and hanging of  the serving girl, Sarah Blundy, who was recently dismissed by Grove after  having been alleged to have been his mistress.  At the conclusion of da  Cola's tale, we feel there can be no doubt about Sarah--or her culpability.   Jack Prescott, however, sees things quite differently.  While he denounces  Sarah as both a wench and a witch, he also denounces da Cola as an  extravagant and gaudy dandy.  And, although it is Prescott himself, who  gives da Cola the piece of evidence that seals Sarah's fate, Prescott  staunchly defends her innocence.  Wallis, the third narrator sees things  and people in yet another light and Anthony Wood, the last of the four  narrators, who has been Sarah's secret lover, not only provides the  &quot;instance of the fingerpost,&quot; but also reveals an astonishing  secret, one that will finally bring together the hidden motives of the  previous narrators and make clear all the clues that have been hidden in  plain sight.  Pears does a marvelous job of weaving fact with fantasy and  his eye for period detail never falters.  And, while da Cola's narrative  begins slowly, the pace does pick up somewhere around page 100.  Although  the book is ultimately worth the wait, no reader should have to wade throuh  100 pages of lacklustre material just to get to the &quot;good part.&quot;   Although Pears does a wonderful job of weaving the intricacies of the  narrative and layering one mystery on top of another, the story as a whole  lacks tension.  Even though I wanted to know the &quot;truth of the  matter,&quot; I kept falling asleep while reading due to this lack of story  tension.  Prescott's narrative, for example, focuses more on the politics  of the times than on the story of Grove's murder and the hanging of Sarah  Blundy.  I think comparisons of this book with Unberto Eco's The Name of  the Rose are unfair.  Other than the fact that both books deal with the  search for ultimate truth as a theme, everything else is different, such as  characterization, pacing and structure.  And The Name of the Rose is much  more atmospheric that is An Instance of the Fingerpost.  But An Instance of  the Fingerpost, while laboriously slow at times, ultimately succeeds, and  the reader is left with a profound sense of both satisfaction and awe.	2000-04-11
2550674:US	50718004	R29VR3JUFPVUH5	067974181X	394276904	Antonietta	Books	3	45	47	N	N	TRULY DISAPPOINTING	John Hersey was a wonderful author and so I really expected more from Antonietta.  What began as a whimsical flight into fantasy quickly goes downhill after the first section.  Unfortunately, it continued its downhill  slide, with each succeeding section being a little less magical than the  first.  Antonio Stradivari, upon seeing the woman he instantly falls in  love with and must marry, begins to create a special violin in her honor.  As he works, the violin becomes infused with his emotions and thereafter,  its music has the power to affect all who hear it.  While Stradivari's  section of the book is magic, Mozart's is less so, and Berlioz's even less.  By the time we finish, Antonietta has definitely taken backstage to a  string of boring, insipid and lucklustre characters with the truly  deplorable Spenser Ham being, by far, the worst.  And other than the first  section involving Stradivari, I didn't find anything sexy or romantic about  this book.  I fully expected to be charmed by Antonietta and was truly  disappointed instead.  When one considers what a tremendous novelist Hersey  was, this book becomes all the more sad.  If you're looking for the  first-rate reading of other Hersey novels, such as A Bell For Adano,  Hiroshoma, The Wall and The White Lotus, you won't find it here.	2000-04-05
2562207:US	50718004	RJOMZ4N2Q8I25	0805063021	310161743	Canone Inverso: A Novel	Books	4	56	60	N	N	WELL DONE, BUT...	I picked up this book with extremely high hopes.  Maybe impossibly so.  The story begins with the auction of a very special violin.  The fact that we don't know who the buyer is or why he is so anxious to own the violin  only adds to the mystery.  Further complicating matters is the arrival of  an unknown writer who wishes to buy the violin--for almost any price.  From  this writer we learn the story of Jen Varga, a young Hungarian musician  and former owner of the strange violin.  At this point, Maurensig seems  about to launch a fascinating story woven around an equally fascinating  theme--the power of music to dominate our life and thus direct its course.   When Jen meets Kuno Blau, however, the story and its theme seem to shift  gears slowly.  Sadly, the musical theme, and even Jen, seem left behind as  Maurensig focuses his attention on Kuno Blau and his obsession with  immortality.  I wouldn't have minded this mid-story shift had the author  somehow tied it more closely to the wonderful theme and story with which he  began.  The ending, although predictable to me, at least, still left many  unaswered questions.  What caused Kuno's agonizing deterioration?  And what  of Jen?  Did he find the secrect of immortality?  And did he find it  through his music or through his connections to the mysterious Gustav Blau?   And what about the enigmatic Sophie Hirschbaum and her equally enigmatic  father?  Jen's ties to her are never explored deeply enough to warrant the  belief that he truly followed her into death.  Maurensig is definitely a  first-rate writer as far as his prose  and ideas are concerned but his  characters and their complex relationships are far too under-developed to  give us the insight we need and deserve.  This book tends to gloss over a  fascinating theme and what could have been an equally fascinating story had  it only been treated with a little more depth.  I came away from Canone  Inverso feeling as though I'd been offered a tantalizing appetizer and then  been denied the rest of the meal.	2000-03-31
2572156:US	50718004	R3JYO7TYLNLFDT	0500018626	274294975	The Most Beautiful Villages of Burgundy	Books	5	65	67	N	N	A MAGICAL PLACE WHERE FANTASY MEETS REALITY	France is a magical place and Burgundy is one of its most magical regions.  The premier wine-growing region of France, Burgundy is also the center of fine cuisine, Romanesque architecture and lazy canals bordered by meadows  of wildflowers.  This book, with its more than 260 color illustrations,  shows Burgundy at its finest.  A region dominated by water, the book begins  in the north and travels through all of Burgundy's four departments.  From  the Yonne, a land of peaceful river valleys and almost 1000 canals, we  travel southward with the author to visit little Romanesque churches and  learn how the Benedictine and Cistercian monks spread the Romanesque style.   We finally arrive in the southernmost department of Soane-et-Loire and the  city of Macon, the border to the Midi and the South, where we sample some  of the finest wines in the world, such as Montrachet and Pommard.  Burgundy  is one of the most beautiful places on earth--unspoiled, unhurried and  faithful to its past.  Whether you plan to actually visit the area or are  just dreaming of a visit, this is the perfect book to accompny you and your  dreams and perhaps even make make them come true.	2000-03-28
2574076:US	50718004	R33JQ6CEQXBRDG	0679731725	247754060	The Remains of the Day	Books	5	334	347	N	N	DECEPTIVELY SIMPLE	There is always the danger of reading too much into a book.  That is a danger that I don't believe exists with The Remains of the Day, one of the most beautifully written contemporary novels.  The Remains of the Day is  the story of Stevens, an English butler in post-World War II England.  In  beautiful understatement, Ishiguro explores the themes of the novel:  What  is the meaning of professionalism in today's society?  How much should one  sacrifice in order to remain true to his own personal ethics?  Ishiguro  weaves quiet comedy and tragedy in this deceptively simple tale, but always  preserves a strong undercurrent of psychological motivation and tension.   In beautiful, crystal clear prose, he tells the tale of one man's  interpretation of his place in society.  The fading class system also  serves as a metaphor for the fading glory of the insular world of postwar  England.  If your're looking for a John Grisham breakneck plot, skip this  book.  If you want literature at its finest, you can't do better than this.	2000-03-27
2577516:US	50718004	RNOC1LYG7Y4TK	0374283923	150979101	The Vintner's Luck: A Novel	Books	5	71	75	N	N	A MAGICAL, SPELLBINDING LOOK AT LIFE AND LOVE	Set in Burgundy and spanning the years 1808 to 1863, The Vintner's Luck tells the magical, spellbinding story of Sobran Jodeau, a vintner from the village of Aluze.  On a midsummer's night, Sobran's life is forever changed when he is visited by an angel named Xas, a gorgeous creature with wings  that smell of snow.  The Vintner's Luck is definitely a character-driven  novel and while each character certainly shines, it is the love and  friendship shared by Sobran, the Baroness Aurora and the angel Xas that  steals the show--and the reader's heart.  All, however, is not sweetness  and light.  The scene in which Lucifer visits Xas and the consequences that  follow are heartbreaking to the core.  I could find absolutely no mistakes  in this perfect novel.  The characters were fully drawn and believable, the  prose lyrical yet clear, and the pacing perfect throughout.  The Vintner's  Luck is a book that achieves enormous depth while retaining a simple,  fairy-tale quality--all to the good.  Anyone who reads The Vintner's Luck  should be prepared to bask in its spell for years to come.	2000-03-25
2577603:US	50718004	R26MWGEO4VAYGF	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	1	106	147	N	N	LABORIOUS, FORCED AND CONTRIVED	The Poisonwood bible, set in the troubled Congo of the 1960s and spanning thirty-five years, is the story of fire-and-brimstone Baptist minister, Nathan Price, his wife, the emotinally distant Orleanna and their four  daughters, the self-indulgent Rachel, the tomboy Leah and her bitter and  twisted twin Adah, and the curious and adventurous Ruth May.  The story is  told from the point-of-view of the women in the family.  It encompasses a  brilliant and fascinating premise that was almost completey destroyed with  poor execution and storytelling.  From the opening sentence, all  credibility and belief in the characters is destroyed.  Orleanna, not  educated beyond high school, who calls herself simply, &quot;a housewife  from Georgia,&quot; speaks like a Georgia housewife yet thinks in prose  that would rival the musings of Michael Ondaatje.  Rachel is even worse.   Attempts to portray her as not-too-smart fail on all counts.  Her  malaproprisms quickly become tiresome and grating.  What's worse, if  accepted, they would reveal a brilliant mind rather than one that was  lacking.  Ruth May, an otherwise engaging five-year-old is also  troublesome.  At times her thoughts seem to be those of a typical  five-year-old; at other times she sounds more like thirty.  (At one point,  Ruth May says, &quot;Rachel was Miss Priss, now she's a freak of  nature.&quot;  I have never met any five-year-old that could understand,  much less make, that comparison.)  Each voice is so overly distinctive that  the entire book feels forced and contrived, two elements really good prose  always avoids.  The author also never lets us forget we are reading a book.   This problem begins immediately when Ruth May says, &quot;My name is Ruth  May.&quot;  This is almost as bad as the archaic, &quot;Dear Reader.&quot;   There are other problems with the book, the most evident being Adah's deus  ex machina &quot;miraculous&quot; cure and the fact that the narration  continues long after the story is really over.  I was going to give this  book three stars because the events in the lives of the Price family are  interesting and well worth telling, but upon further reflection I decided  to reduce my rating to one star instead.  I just couldn't get past all the  mistakes.	2000-03-25
2577776:US	50718004	R221ZO7IW7LYKM	0312169353	302376645	More Bread Machine Magic : More Than 140 New Recipes From the Authors of Bread Machine Magic for Use in All Types of Sizes of Bread Machines	Books	5	67	70	N	N	WONDERFUL	I started out with the first book, Bread Machine Magic and, great as it was, I just couldn't pass up another book by this wonderful author.  As someone who uses a bread machine on a daily basis, I welcome new ideas and recipes and this book truly has it all.  One of the best things about it  (other than all the delicious recipes, of course) is the fact that the  recipes are adaptable for all types and sizes of machines.  If you own a  bread machine, this book is an absolute must have.  Along with Bread  Machine Magic, it is the boest book for bread machine recipes ever  written--bar none.	2000-03-25
2578282:US	50718004	R11Q1VYDX611R8	0812027000	118984683	Madhur Jaffrey's Indian Cooking	Books	5	67	72	N	N	A CLASSIC	This is absolutely one of my all time favorite cookbooks.  Madhur Jaffrey is a teacher par excellence and everything is this book is explained in a clear, concise and easy to understand way.  I found it excellent for the beginner and advanced cook alike.  Every recipe I have tried has been  delicious and the chutneys are beyond compare.  The heavenly aromas are  reason enough to experiment with the recipes, never mind the delicious  tastes!  If you love Indian cooking or are thinking about giving it a try,  I'd recommend you begin with this book.  You absolutely can't go wrong.	2000-03-25
2582329:US	50718004	RTSGGPZIG5KB6	0385497431	710198060	English Passengers: A Novel	Books	5	39	45	N	N	A TOUR DE FORCE OF EPIC PROPORTIONS	In 1857, Illiam Quillian Kewley, captain of the Sincerity, sets sail from the Isle of Mann with three mysterious English passengers who hope to discover the Garden of Eden.  There is the Reverend Geoffrey Wilson, bent  on proving the literal accuracy of the Bible against atheist geologists,  Timothy Renshaw, a &quot;sometimes&quot; botanist, and the sinister,  egomaniacal Dr. Thomas Potter, who is developing a revolutionary theory on  the races of man.  Each passenger has his own agenda, and, unknown to all  three, Captain Kewley has desires of his own--he just wants to smuggle some  tobacco and brandy, with a little French pornography thrown in for good  measure.  After the Serenity sets sail, the book jumps back thirty years,  to 1828 Tasmania where a revolution is in the making.  At its center is a  young, half-breed boy, Peevay, whose mother was raped and abandoned by a  white convict.  This rightfully embittered aboriginal woman is now in the  midst of a war against the encroaching whites and Peevay, so anxious to win  her love and approval, can't help but join her.  When Kewley's timeline  intersects with Peevay's, worlds collide and lives are forever changed.   English Passengers is told from the point of view of more than twenty  different narrators, each distinct, yet recognizable and each adding his  own necessary piece to a seamless and beautiful whole.  That the  individuality of each voice shines through, yet never disrupts, is  testimony to Kneale's extraordinarily artistic storytelling ability.  The  most compelling voice, however, belongs to Peevay, who tells a fascinating  and vivid story of aboriginal life.  This is a novel of epic proportions,  spanning forty years, replete with adventure and rich with historic detail.   The mutinies, wars and the melodrama aplenty are finely handled and  well-balanced with high comedy bordering on farce.  English Passengers is  definitely a novel to be savored, and afterwards, long-remembered.  It  lacked nothing.	2000-03-23
2583062:US	50718004	R2Z99JETFGYRAJ	0670873713	433526740	The Chocolate Bible	Books	5	41	42	N	N	DELIGHTFULLY DECADENT	If you love chocolate yourself, or if you simply know someone who loves chocolate, as I do, this is THE definitive work!  It begins with a fascinating look at the history of chocolate and then goes on to give us  every chocolate recipe imaginable--and some that are not!  There are  recipes for candies, cakes, cookies, fillings and cocoas, all generously  laced with gorgeous photographs that only add to the enjoyment of the book.   Of particular interest to me and my family was the recipe for Mexican  chocolate sauce, a wonderful combination of chilies and chocolate.  The  book also has recipes and tips for decorating with chocolate.  I've tried  many of the recipes and all have turned out simply delicious.  And, if  you're looking for a dessert to impress guests, you're sure to find it  here!  For the chocolate lovers of the world, this book certainly has it  all.	2000-03-23
2583678:US	50718004	R257LR9BMY1CWW	0500541620	424225354	The Most Beautiful Villages of France (Most Beautiful Villages)	Books	5	53	54	N	N	THE MOST BEAUTIFUL PLACE ON EARTH	France is the most beautiful place on earth--bar none.  But different regions of France have such different characteristics and there is a lot more to this wonderful country than Paris, Dijon, Nice, etc. In The Most  Beautiful Villages of France, you'll discover gorgeous photographs of  little, out-of-the-way towns and villages that will bring you new and  unexpected delights.  For those lucky enough to actually visit France, this  book is definitely a must-have.  For those who can only dream, there is no  better way!  In my opinion, The Most Beautiful Villages of Burgundy, The  Most Beautiful Villages of Provence and The Most Beautiful Villages of  Tuscany are equally well done.  Don't leave home without them!	2000-03-22
2585359:US	50718004	R2K5MN2R550VUN	0836250753	304859837	Maida Heatter's Pies and Tarts (Maida Heatter Classic Library)	Books	4	51	51	N	N	EXCELLENT BUT NOT FOR BEGINNERS	While this book is excellent and the recipes, though long, are usually easy to follow, they can still be difficult and I would recommend that a beginner start with an easier, more basic book.  More advanced bakers,  however, should love this book.  While it concentrates on pies and tarts of  all kinds, Ms. Heatter also details cobblers and crumbles, custards and  glaces and much, much more.  She also gives us practical advice, such as  the correct way to wash fruit, etc.  Real pie baking is an art, so be  prepared to put a lot of time and effort into these recipes.  It will be  time and effort very well spent.  I, myself would have preferred  illustrations of some of these delicious concoctions.	2000-03-21
2586121:US	50718004	R3I68XZUK4XDWQ	2877060543	783725365	Jean De Florette (French Version)	Books	5	29	29	N	N	THE PRICE OF GREED IS HIGH	This haunting and lyrical novel tells how greed destroyed the lives of two men and those around them.  The setting is exquisite, the characters fully developed and the plot seamless.  The rich and evocative language is a joy  in itself.  A novel like this is an experience you will remember and  treasure for a lifetime.  It truly becomes a part of you.	2000-03-21
2588078:US	50718004	R29RYAUAUV6RMK	0393047164	423928723	The Abyssinian : A Novel	Books	5	17	19	N	N	MESMERIZING ADVENTURE OF ROMANCE AND POLITICAL INTRIGUE	The Abyssinian is a mesmerizing adventure chocked full of romance and political intrigue set in exotic locales--that doesn't take itself too seriously.  Opening in Cairo during the reign of Louis IV, the protagonist of The Abyssinian is Jean-Baptiste Poncet, a young French herbalist/doctor  practicing in Cairo.  The action really begins when Louis commands the  French consul in Egypt to send a delegation to the King of Abyssinia  (Ethiopia).  Knowing any foreigner, and especially a Christian, would be  less than welcome in Abyssinia, leaves the consul, Monsieur de Maillet, in  a quandry.  What to do?  When he hears the Abyssinian king is in need of  medical care, Maillet decides to send Poncet, not only to cure the King,  but also to convince him to send a delegation to Versailles.  Poncet, who  has fallen hopelessly in love with Maillet's daughter, Alix, agrees  immediately, danger notwithstanding.  As the &quot;son of a servant girl  and an unknown man,&quot; he knows his only chance with Alix is to bring an  Abyssinian delegation to Versailles.  Poncet's adventures make for  fascinating reading as he travels from Cairo to Abyssinia to Versailles.   Rufin's prose is, at all times, smooth, pure and elegant and the  translation is superb.  The characters are fully-developed and extremely  likable.  And the fact that The Abyssinian doesn't take itself too  seriously only adds to the overall charm.  The only book I can compare it  to is Andrew Miller's Casanova in Love.  Both books are equally  well-written, but where the love interest in Casanova in Love is extremely  weak and deserving of no one's love except her mother's, Alix is both  charming and engaging.  Extremely well-written on all counts, I found this  book to be a pure delight.	2000-03-19
2588122:US	50718004	RIWRWHNVC2QKR	0898799066	887870166	Scene & Structure (Elements of Fiction Writing)	Books	5	30	33	N	N	HELP FOR BEGINNER AND ADVANCED ALIKE	Most books on fiction writing aren't worth the paper they're printed on.  This one is different.  Jack Bickham is a master when it comes to structure, and if you let it, this book can make you a master as well.  Not everything about writing can be learned; fortunately structure is something  that can.  This book is as well-structured as are Bickham's novels.   Frankly, I don't know any writer, beginner or advanced, who couldn't profit  from this book.  It's certainly helped me.	2000-03-19
2588141:US	50718004	R3UF1VABBL19DC	0688101364	880326665	Rose's Christmas Cookies	Books	5	63	64	N	N	BEAUTIFUL AND PRACTICAL	Rose's Christmas Cookies is a beautiful and practical book.  I, myself, found it more practical and useful than The Cake Bible since making a batch of exotic cookies is not quite so time-consuming as making an exotic cake.  I also think the novice baker could get a lot of use out of this book,  while I found The Cake Bible and The Pie and Pastry Bible more useful for  advanced bakers.  In this book, one will find recipes for every kind of  cookie imaginable--to eat as well as for decorating.  Rose also gives up  tips on how to package cookies for sending through the mail, which cookies  to send, etc.  The directions are very complete and easy to follow--both  for baking and for decorating.  If Christmas is a big occasion in your  home, as it is in mine, then this book will go a long way toward making it  even better.	2000-03-19
2588190:US	50718004	R22DJIXAPCZLRC	038542017X	507593319	Like Water for Chocolate: A Novel in Monthly Installments with Recipes, Romances, and Home Remedies	Books	4	6	8	N	N	DECEPTIVELY SIMPLE MAGIC	Set in turn-of-the-century Mexico, Like Water for Chocolate is the story of Tita de la Garza, youngest daughter of the overbearing yet dependent Mama Elena.  Tita is in love with Pedro had he with her, but when he asks  for her hand in marriage, Mama Elena refuses, telling him her youngest  daughter must remain single and unencumbered in order to care for her.   When Mama Elena offers Pedro, Rosaura, Tita's older sister instead, Pedro  gladly accepts, thinking his marriage will keep him close to Tita.  Tita,  meanwhile, becomes the family cook, having learned the art from the  spinster Nacha.  Tita however, adds a little magic to her recipes and her  food is filled with her emotions--love, frustration, longing, betrayal.   What's more, these emotions affect the people who eat the food as  profoundly as does the food itself.  The task of baking Rosaura's and  Pedro's wedding cake falls to Tita.  As she bakes, her tears fall in the  batter and fill all at the wedding with longing for loves lost or  unfulfilled.  Does Tita ever find fulfillment in love?  On the one hand,  yes.  On the other, no.  Esquivel has spun a deceptively simple fantasy  into a very readable book.  I applaud her clear, straightforward prose.   She obviously knows a really supurb story needs no gimmicks!  On the  negative side, the characters, especially Pedro, are rather weak and  undeveloped.  The surprising, surreal ending seems out of place and a  little too abrupt.  And while I realize Tita's cooking is symbolic, there  are far too many recipes in the novel.  Although interesting in themselves,  the recipes soon become cumbersone and detract from the magic of the story.   Although not perfect, Like Water for Chocolate is a wonderful book.  A  spellbinding mix of sadness, humor, earthiness and the supernatural that  you won't soon forget.	2000-03-19
2588768:US	50718004	R1RKWV6J8XC6XN	0312069146	289272514	Bread Machine Magic: 139 Exciting New Recipes Created Especially for Use in All Types of Bread Machines	Books	5	76	76	N	N	ABSOLUTELY THE BEST	This is absolutely the best book on baking with bread machines--bar none!  I've had a bread machine for years--I love the homebaked flavor and texture and aroma, but not the time it takes to do it all by hand--and have purchased many books with recipes for bread machines.  None of them could  even begin to live up to this one.  Besides the basics, there are recipes  for filled breads, sweet breads and pastries--like the scrumptious recipe  for cinnamon rolls.  I live in Europe but found that this book works well  here--all I needed was a set of American measuring cups and spoons and the  recipes were perfectly adaptable.  I used to make all of my bread &quot;by  hand&quot; and welcomed the advent of the bread machine.  Now things have  improved by leaps and bounds with the arrival of this book.  I really can't  praise it highly enough.  I'd give it ten stars if I could!	2000-03-19
2591385:US	50718004	R2YYUHN2AHZOPK	0684813483	911059235	The Pie and Pastry Bible	Books	4	34	38	N	N	ONLY IF YOU HAVE A LOT OF TIME	This book can be great but only if you have a lot of time to invest in making a pie or tart.  And, while Rose does do a masterful job of teaching the fine art of pastry making (and it is an art!) I think complete novices  would be better off making do with a simpler book for awhile.  But for  those really serious about pastries and pies this book can be terrific.   There are many recipes for different kinds of pastries as well as many  different kinds of pie fillings.  The directions are detailed and the  illustrations mouth-watering.  I enjoy it more than The Cake Bible because  I don't find the recipes quite so exotic and so am able to use more of  them, more often.  Just be prepared to spend the entire afternoon or  evening making one pie.  On the plus side, if you follow Rose's directions,  the time will certainly be time well spent.	2000-03-17
2592227:US	50718004	R35L2S40OHQGYE	0393315371	167276047	The Golden Ocean	Books	5	37	37	N	N	THE PERFECT PRECURSOR	The Golden Ocean was written in 1956 and is Patrick O'Brian's first novel about the sea.  As such, it is the perfect precursor to the highly acclimed Aubrey/Maturin series.  The protagonist of this book is Peter Palafox, son  of an impoverished Irish parson.  In 1740, Peter, who has never before seen  a ship, signs on, as a midshipman with Commodore Anson.  Together with his  lifelong friend, Sean, Peter hopes to find his fortune.  He finds danger  and disappointment instead, as Anson and his men circle the globe through  poorly charted waters.  And, although they seize a vast fortune in Spanish  gold and silver, only one of Anson's five ships survives the voyage.  The  Golden Ocean is as perfectly and beautifully crafted as are the  Aubrey/Maturin  novels.  The writing is brilliantly detailed and the action  perfectly paced.  With The Golden Ocean, O'Brian has created a perfect  world of must-read-on storytelling.  A book deserving of ten stars and  anyone's time.	2000-03-16
2592865:US	50718004	R2J51YPKXJYGJ6	0841912459	450677665	Paris Capital of Europe: From the Revolution to the Belle Epoque	Books	5	23	23	N	N	FLUCTUAT, NEC MERGITUR	While Paris in not my alltime favorite city, I do have to admit it's special.  This book, written by a German historian and journalist, traces the development of Paris in the 18th and 19th centuries and its  transformation into the intellectual and artistic capital of Europe.   Meticulously researched, Paris, the Capital of Europe, covers the years  from 1789 to the First World War.  The author presents the city to us in  detail:  the street life and repression, social customs, architecture, the  growth of trade and commerce, health and hygiene, class problems, morality  and art and entertainment.  Willms then weaves all these threads together  to show the reader why and how Paris became the capital of Europe.  Anyone  who loves Paris, European history or both should love, Paris the Capital of  Europe.  Paris!  There really is no place like it!	2000-03-16
2593332:US	50718004	RIB90N12WTBMV	0767902831	98620316	Bella Tuscany: The Sweet Life in Italy	Books	4	43	48	N	N	SWEET	I really can't understand why so many reviewers have complained about this sweet little book.  Although I'm French, not Italian, I have traveled all over Italy and I found Bella Tuscany to be a sweet and interesting book  that provides a few evenings of lighthearted and entertaining reading.  In  Bella Tuscany, Mayes travels to regions outside Tuscany, such as Sicily and  Venice, as well as to the many castle towns, fishing villages and islands.   Many reviewers have complained about the chapter on recipes, but I found  them quite interesting and delicious!  Although I don't think Mayes  captures the essence of Tuscany with quite the wit and verve of Peter  Mayle, writing about Provence, Bella Tuscany is still a sweet and  lighthearted look at one of the world's most beautiful regions.	2000-03-16
2593417:US	50718004	R370856Q9UPZHC	0393312445	931588569	The Wine-Dark Sea (Vol. Book 16)  (Aubrey/Maturin Novels)	Books	5	44	46	N	N	AUTHENTIC GOLD	I once had a creative writing instructor who insisted all ofhis students read one of O'Brian's novels to learn what truly superiorwriting was all about.  I chose The Wine-Dark Sea and am I glad I did. O'Brian is truly a master!  The Wine-Dark Sea opens with Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin in pursuit of an American privateer sailing the South Sea.  The British, already engaged in the Napoleonic Wars, have made the mistake of also blundering into war with a young upstart, the United States.  Maturin, in the Wine-Dark Sea, desires to relieve the pressure on the British government by inciting the revolutionaries of South America, more specifically, Peru.  O'Brian, a master storyteller, also has a sharp eye for detail.  His descriptions of the landscape, the sea, life on board the midgit man-of-war and even the Andes are no doubt the best in all of literature.  The spine-tingling barbarity and bloody battle scenes are so real, they'll make you glad you're only reading a book (although the writing is so good you may forget that at times)!  I really can't praise O'Brian highly enough. He is both artist and perfect craftsman and beside him, most authors rapidly pale.  If you love the sea, if you love adventure, if you just love a good book, you absolutely can't go wrong with The Wine-Dark Sea or any of O'Brian's other novels.  All of them are just perfect.  END	2000-03-16
2593654:US	50718004	R1DWHE1XREJA2B	068485743X	934544519	The First Five Pages: A Writer's Guide To Staying Out of the Rejection Pile	Books	4	21	22	N	N	HELP FROM A DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVE	Most books about writing tell us what to do.  This book, however, takes the opposite approach and tells us what not to do.  As an editor, Noah Lukeman shows writers why their manuscripts are rejected by both agents and publishers time and time again.  After defining the problem spots, the  author gives us examples and then follows with exercises to help correct  the problem.  The only criticism I have of the book lies with the examples.   They are truly dreadful.  I'm sure the author made them up to illustrate  his point, but I, myself, would have found examples more helpful had they  been drawn from actual books.  This book, however, is very useful, both for  the beginner and the more advanced writer and will go a long way toward  keeping you out of the rejection pile.	2000-03-15
2593755:US	50718004	R4SBHUHDB7PZ7	0385319908	867905370	A Place of My Own: The Education of an Amateur Builder	Books	5	64	69	N	N	MR. BLANDINGS MEETS THOREAU	While some rave about the prose of Anne Rice and Michael Ondaatje, I rave about Michael Pollan!  In A Place of My Own, Pollan has crafted a beautifully written book laced with intelligence, humility and humor.  Attempting to escape his own &quot;mid-life crisis,&quot; Pollan decides to  build a cabin in the woods--a place where he can work undisturbed that also  serves as a &quot;shelter for daydreams.&quot;  During his 2 1/2 years of  building, Pollan comes to reflect on many things such as the meaning of  &quot;work&quot; in our highly technological society, the sacrifice and  celebration of nature and the borders between nature and culture.  In the  end, Pollan comes to the conclusion that there really is no clear division  between matters of the material world and those of the spirit.  A warm,  witty and wise story told in prose as crystal clear as a bright winter's  day.  I'd gladly give it ten stars if I could.	2000-03-15
2594403:US	50718004	R3P8GD5C3XNO2	0688044026	377664363	The Cake Bible	Books	4	17	21	N	N	LET US EAT CAKE!	While this is an extremely creative book for those whose lives revolve around cake baking, it is probably beyond the scope of most everyday bakers.  Some of the recipes are quite difficult and call for exotic, hard-to-find ingredients.  I think most people will end up using only three  or four of their favorite recipes.  Three or four, however, isn't bad, and  the book is extremely well-written and covers just about every kind of cake  imaginable.  Highly recommended for those who want a special cake or  something different.  For those only interested in the old standbys, better  stick to Betty Crocker.	2000-03-15
2594409:US	50718004	R3LCGE53XJWPX5	0517706229	754074991	The Path to Love: Renewing the Power of Spirit in Your Life	Books	5	36	39	N	N	A GIFT FOR FANS OF CHOPRA	While Deepak Chopra is usually too &quot;New Age&quot; for my taste, I am immediately impressed by both his compassion and his wisdom.  In The Path to Love, Chopra helps us to deepen our most intimate love relationships with the gifts of the spirit.  Drawing on the wisdom of the ancient Vedic  texts of India and employing stories of &quot;love gone wrong,&quot; Chopra  illuminates the seven stages of love and then gives us specific exercises  to help overcome the obstacles to love in our own lives.  Not really my cup  of tea, but definitely a five star book for those who enjoy Chopra.	2000-03-15
2599272:US	50718004	R30DJVQ168AOK5	0553147099	939741551	Mandarin Orange Sunday	Books	5	24	25	N	N	ELEGANT AND FUNNY	Solange is a woman with everything--or so it would seem.  A second look tells us she's a woman with everything money can buy...and no one with whom to share it.  Her quest for the perfect lover and the perfect love form the  premise of this wise and witty book.  My only regret is that Durand never  gave us a sequel.	2000-03-12
2599329:US	50718004	R33OFYKT2A9FS0	0671749609	835505349	Perfume: The Story of Murder	Books	5	269	286	N	N	A HAUNTING AND MESMERIZING TOUR DE FORCE	In 18th century France, Jean-Baptiste Grenouille, born with no scent of his own, but with with a supernatural ability to detect the scent of others is driven to murder in order to create the perfect perfume.  This  extraordinarily original premise encompasses the most elegant, aristocratic  and erotic novel I have ever read.  Flawlessly written and drenched in  irony, Perfume tells a haunting tale of a man reminiscent of the Phantom of  the Opera, the Hunchback of Notre Dame, Beauty and the Beast (beast), and  even Faust.  Amd finally!  A writer with enough talent to let us experience  Grenouille's thoughts and emotions.  Although, of course, identification  with him is impossible, (Grenouille is the most chilling character in  literature) I did manage to understand Grenouille's all-consuming passion,  much to Suskind's credit.  Suskind's prose is lush and evokative (the  decadance of 18th century France simply comes alive) without spilling over  into the purple prose of books like Violin or The English Patient.  Perfume  is a bizarre tale, but it is also lyrical and hypnotic--almost a fairy tale  of terror.  If you're looking for something different, something special, I  highly recommend Perfume.  The only other book I've found to equal it in  originality is Jose Saramago's Blindness.  Perfume, however, remains my  alltime favorite.	2000-03-12
2599978:US	50718004	R290KOARTDR7B5	0764505041	598251304	Creating Web Pages for Dummies (4th ed)	Books	5	53	53	N	N	A SOLID INTRODUCTION FOR BEGINNERS	This book provides a good foundation for Internet beginners. It explains very clearly all aspects of the Internet and HTML language, including important information on graphics, Web publishing protocols, etc. However, this is definitely a book for novices. If you already possess some  knowledge of Web publishing, you might find this book too basic. I also  think this book is more ideally suited to designing personal Web pages, not  professional ones. Further study is certainly needed after this book is  finished. But like all \\"Dummy\\" books, it is very easy to understand.	2000-03-11
2600417:US	50718004	R3LTO6CWIHDWX8	0151004099	427489038	Casanova in Love	Books	3	25	25	N	N	CASANOVA, THE BUMBLER	At the ripe old age of thirty-eight (?), already jaded and weary, Giacomo Casanova decides to &quot;give it a rest&quot; in England.  However, he's soon lured back to his old way of life by the lovely, young Marie Charpillon.  Marie, however, is no pushover for Casanova's charms and  Casanova, himself, seems to have lost his touch.  What follows could have  been a hilarious farce of the highest order but it falls far short of the  mark.  The moments of hilarity are too few and too far between and  Casanova's philosophical meanderings on the meaning of life and growing old  just don't cut it.  And, although the character of Casanova is sometimes  brilliantly drawn, Marie, the object of Casanova's affections, has to be  one of the weakest love interests in the history of literature.  The book  suffers from long boring stretches between the brilliant flashes of light.   The premise, however, remains terrific, and had Miller been able to sustain  the random hilarity, Casanova In Love would indeed have been a five star  farce.  Oh well, maybe next time.	2000-03-11
2602207:US	50718004	R3KL7X4YQ4MPL4	0679745203	152918541	The English Patient	Books	1	23	40	N	N	REALLY!	Purple prose does not translate into either literature or poetry.  This is the only book that actually made me physically ill.  I could say a lot more but that would only be giving this book free advertising and that is  something I definitely do NOT want to do!	2000-03-09
2603963:US	50718004	RCU9DNSV0X5M1	0451197410	52230657	How Stella Got Her Groove Back	Books	5	10	12	N	N	VIBRANT AND EXUBERANT	Oh come on, people, stop criticizing this book just because it's not a heavy, philosophical tome!  Who doesn't need to laugh once in awhile?  I know I sure do and I did with this witty, vibrant, fun book.  The  characters are immensely likable, the setting is fun and the plot is a  hoot.  Thanks, Terry McMillan for a fun little romp in Jamaica!	2000-03-08
2604000:US	50718004	R38Z66K4DZ5HC3	0312168276	875422478	Eva Peron: A Biography	Books	5	28	30	N	N	THE BEST BIOGRAPHY OF EVA PERON AVAILABLE	This book offers a completely unbiased look at one of the most controversial first ladies of the twentieth century. Eva Peron was both adored and despised and many aspects of her life are open to wide  speculation. The author never tries to assume one opinion, as most  biographers do, but carefully presents each possible version of the events  in question. Eva is presented as neither saint or sinner, just a very  complex and intense person, and it is completely up to the reader as to how  to judge her. This is probably the most well researched and honest  biography of Eva Peron available.	2000-03-08
2604253:US	50718004	R1YY68O823226V	0156007754	787923440	Blindness (Harvest Book)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	WILDLY PROVACATIVE	While I didn't care for the strange use of the English language, I do find Blindness to encompass the most wildly provacative and original premise I have yet to find.  It is a novel of horror and far surpasses anything  Stephen King or Clive Cussler has ever written.  Blindness tells the tale  of the breakdown of society and as it does, it shows us just how fragile  that society really is.  That something such as this could really happen  only adds to the chilling tone of the tale. Saramago is certainly one of  the most brilliant authors now writing and Blindness is a novel that would  do any author credit.  The translation is perfect and the novel loses  nothing by not having been originally written in English.  Highly  recommended for those looking for something different, chilling and highly  intellectual.	2000-03-08
2604697:US	50718004	R2Q4RAXJFJTT9I	0312244150	306188446	The Pianist: The Extraordinary True Story of One Man's Survival in Warsaw	Books	5	22	24	N	N	RARE LOOK AT LIFE IN THE WARSAW GHETTO	The are several books detailing the horrors of the Holocaust and although each and every person's story is important, this book is very unique. One man's story of survival in Warsaw during World War II offers a new  perspective on the Holocaust. Although this perspective is none the less  chilling, it does help break stereotypes which continue today and shows  that good and evil existed among both the German and Jewish populations.	2000-03-08
2604789:US	50718004	R1I7ZFT7OLS95N	0452277809	648554746	One Deadly Summer	Books	5	25	26	N	N	EXCELLENT TALE OF REVENGE AND ITS CONSEQUENCES	The author did an excellent job of weaving the story together, one piece at a time while never losing momentum. Although the main character's desire for revenge stems from events of the past, the reader is never bombarded  with backstory and is instead shown backstory through character thoughts  when it is necessary and pertinent to the story. Although I cannot say that  any of the characters are likable, there are believable and the author does  keep us aware of their thoughts and intentions, therefore continuously  holding our interest. The ending is surprising, dramatic and certainly well  worth the wait.	2000-03-08
2604865:US	50718004	R3UCGXWGJGFEK7	0345351525	589915655	The Queen of the Damned (The Vampire Chronicles, No. 3)	Books	1	11	17	N	N	A FALL FROM GRACE	After the highly original and well-done Interview With the Vampire, Anne Rice certainly fell from my good graces with this mishmash of the supernatural.  Rice has committed the beginner's cardinal sin  (she was  still a beginner when she wrote this) by peopling her novel with so many  extraneous characters just to keep the pot boiling we need a scorecard to  keep them straight.  Many of them seemed to have nothing at all to do with  the story.  And where, for goodness sake is the plot?  So many readers and  reviewers talk about Rice's lush, gorgeous prose but I think purple prose  is a more apt description as far as this novel is concerned.  Sorry, Anne.  You can't cover bad writing with flowery prose and get away with it.  Your  readers are just too smart!	2000-03-08
2605555:US	50718004	RBXM7QBXHEQHY	0898865743	21241024	The Crystal Horizon: Everest-The First Solo Ascent	Books	3	16	23	N	N	WHAT SHOULD HAVE BEEN SO PERFECT	This book should have been so perfect.  It details Reinhold Messner's successful attempt to become the first man to climb Everest solo and without supplemental oxygen.  What should have been so perfect, however,  falls far short of the mark.  Messner's writing style is just ho-hum, but I  could have lived with that.  What really makes this book a  less-than-wonderful read is the fact that Messner complains about trivial  and/or personal problems all the way through.  He can't deal with fame.   Well, I think if you ask 99% of the world who he is, they won't know.  He  was having trouble with his girlfriend.  Who cares?  Certainly not the  readers of this book who bought it to learn of Messner's thoughts about  Everest and his climb.  Certainly not even Messner--anymore, so why  immortalize the fights in this book?  Reinhold Messner is still the world's  premier alpinist and as such, this book offers a unique look at a very  skilled man.  The photos alone make it well worth the time and money.	2000-03-07
2605633:US	50718004	REI8GBTZ6L0GG	0345337662	494921316	Interview with the Vampire	Books	5	4	4	N	N	MESMERIZING	The very fact that Anne Rice could make a very unlovable character, such as a vampire, quite lovable, is an astonishing feat in itself.  In beautiful, straightforward prose, Rice explores the inner life of a vampire  and manages to make him sympathetic.  Louis, Lestat and Claudia are  fascinating characters we come to know and identify with.  On a larger  scale, this talented author very deftly explores deep philosophical  questions concerning the mystery and meaning of life and death and  immortality through the eyes of those who have actually experienced it.   Philosophical treatise or fascinating story--this book truly has it all.   Rich in metaphor and imagery, I think it is the very best of Rice's Vampire  Chronicles, the most atmospheric and, by far, the most cleanly plotted.	2000-03-07
2605690:US	50718004	R1RXCI3ME9RYKP	0688044026	857459596	The Cake Bible	Books	4	11	13	N	N	A LITTLE TOO EXOTIC FOR EVERYDAY	The Cake Bible is great if baking and decorating cakes is your hobby.  But those who just want to bake a great cake or bake something a little different will find the book's recipes a little too difficult and exotic.  It does cover every kind of cake recipe under the sun--from butter cakes to  fruitcakes to triple layer chocolate fudge.  If you're like me, though,  there will be only five or six recipes that will become  &quot;favorites&quot; and the rest you won't use.  Still, worth it.	2000-03-07
2605702:US	50718004	R36M4833RDG46E	0860685179	171334439	Enchanted April	Books	5	28	32	N	N	WISTERIA AND SUNSHINE	This book consists of a little jewel of a plot in the most sumptous of settings--Italy's Riviera dei Fiore.  Four women, for very different reasons, attempt to escape for one month to San Salvatore, a medieval  castle.  Gradualy, each woman begins to reveal more and more about herself  until she finally sheds her public persona to reveal the real person  underneath.  Imbued with lighthearted romance, wisteria and sunshine, this  beautiful novel will both captivate and delight you.	2000-03-07
2605774:US	50718004	R2CVJJA0K1YG2S	0446676098	430421115	The Notebook	Books	5	7	8	N	N	SWEET BUT LOVELY	This little book may be too sweet for some but the premise is both lovely and touching.  Some say this novella was written in the tradition of Bridges of Madison County but I think not.  Where Bridges is pompous to the  core, The Notebook is sweet and engaging, its characters real people who  actually touch the heart.  In Bridges, sex is sex, but in The Notebook sex  is love...something that never goes out of style.	2000-03-07
2605987:US	50718004	R3CJ2UGP0CMTF6	0679600213	877262582	Out of Africa (Modern Library 100 Best Nonfiction Books)	Books	5	53	59	N	N	FORGET THE MOVIE	Forget the movie and read the book instead.  Isak Dinesen's love for Africa and her adopted homeland shines through every page as she helps us to vicariously experience like on a Kenyan farm.  The book is loosely  plotted and Dinesen is not shy about expressing her personal views, so  expect some opinionated writing from this lady.  She doesn't romanticize  Africa, as many writers do.  She tells it like it is, which is great, as  far as I'm concerned.  If you're looking for King Solomon's Mines, foget  it, but if you have any interest in Africa, past or present, you're sure to  like this book.	2000-03-07
2608112:US	50718004	R2TLWONQXHJI77	0156006006	75363464	Ingenious Pain (Harvest Book)	Books	5	35	37	N	N	BRILLIANT AND ORIGINAL	James Dyer was born without the ability to feel either pain or emotion.  As such, he lacks empathy, the epitome of all human qualities.  What happens when James undergoes a radical transformation forms the central questions this novel poses--Is it pain that defines our humanity and lies  at its heart?  Does a surfeit of pain destroy humanity as effectively as  does its absence?  How do we achieve the necessary balance between empathy  and self-destruction?  Ingenious Pain encompasses a brilliantly original  premise, almost faultlessly executed.  Andrew Miller has created complex  and believable characters of tremendous emotional depth in a setting true  to its times.  His extraordinary use of language paints a word picture that  reaches both the depths of despair and the heights of hope, ending on a  note of both tragedy and joy.  The juxtaposition of the unfeeling Dyer  against images of astounding richness creates metaphors of striking beauty  and pain.  The book's only fault lies in its lengthy backstory.  Miller  spends far too much time detailing Dyer's childhood, time that could have  been better and more interestingly spent detailing Dyer, the man.  (The  sections with Gummer and Mr. Canning, in particular, seemed to serve no  useful purpose and did nothing to enrich the book.)  Although slightly less  than perfect, Ingenious Pain is still astounding in its brilliance; a novel  whose theme and symbolism will haunt you with questions for years to come.	2000-03-05
2608399:US	50718004	R2EQ4CXQLD8QAR	0446601640	101086187	Slow Waltz in Cedar Bend	Books	1	18	24	N	N	SILLY	How many short, silly novellas can one author turn out with wafer-thin plots and cliched characters that struggle not to fall into bed with each other, knowing all along that's exactly what they're going to do?  This book was almost as bad as Bridges...but not quite.  But then, not much  could be.	2000-03-05
2610571:US	50718004	R15I67PD1A9IRV	0898799465	974551584	Plot (Elements of Fiction Writing)	Books	5	23	25	N	N	GREAT FOR BEGINNER AND ADVANCED ALIKE	As a writer myself, plotting is my hardest job.  This book has helped me immensely.  Dibell shows us how to structure our beginnings with a bang, then goes on to help us hold reader interest throughout the book.  She  explains both circular and linear endings and lets us know when each is  most approporiate.  She also covers the area of subplots extremely well,  helping us understand what a valid subplot really is and how much support  it really needs.  I, myself, found the discussion of braided plots most  useful.  I used my copy so much it literally fell apart and I had to buy  another.  This is absolutely the best book on the complex subject of  plotting I've ever seen.	2000-03-03
2611546:US	50718004	R2CLEHVMTU362I	0451188462	562576523	Desperation	Books	5	8	8	N	N	PRIME KING	Stephen King is not usually my cup of tea but I have to admit he's a master writer and Desperation is King at the top of his form.  The plot is tight and well-paced, the characters fully drawn and the setting absolutely  perfect.  The dialogue goes without saying--it is King at his best, writing  in that folksy voice that is as perfect as Mozart.  This is a tale of  flat-out supernatural horror with a moralistic theme, yet King is never  preachy.  For those who love Stephen, he doesn't get much better than this.	2000-03-02
2612846:US	50718004	RPWF2ROM7O34V	0140253602	226975137	Felicia's Journey: A Novel	Books	3	25	34	N	N	IN THIS CASE A LITTLE LESS SYMBOLISM, PLEASE	This book starts with a lot of promise and the writing is excellent--for the first few chapters. However, the character of Felicia undergoes very little development, something I find to be Mr. Trevor's biggest writing  mistake. Much more depth could (and should) have been added to the story  had we been privy to Felicia's inner thoughts.  As it is, she is very flat  and one-dimensional with no deep emotions and seems to exist only to  further characterize the fascinating Mr. Hilditch.<br />Mr. Hilditch is a very  well formed character indeed, almost comical and likable, and does have  many thoughts and emotions. This made the book a story about Mr. Hilditch,  with Felicia just passing through, really serving no purpose other than to  become Mr. Hilditch's current obsession. <br />Based on the title, I would  assume the author wanted this to be a story about Felicia. If that is the  case, then Mr. Trevor should have had the climax of Felicia's story closer  to the end of the book.  Instead, the last ¼ of the book gives us no clear  glimpses of Felicia. As for Felicia's fate, I would have preferred a more  solid ending.  Symbolism is well and good, but only when used in a symbolic  book.  When used simply to confuse and surprise, I find it rather annoying.   Had the book been titled &quot;Mr. Hilditch&quot; perhaps I would have  enjoyed it more and rated it higher.	2000-03-01
2613586:US	50718004	R2OZMJXM1UMJGX	0140287825	977269962	Death in Summer	Books	1	13	21	N	N	UNDERSTATED BUT CLICHED	Based on a highly cliched premise (a babysitter in love with the father of the child) I found this book's momentum to be too slow until the climax of the story, which came and went so fast, it was more like a ridiculous  little &quot;pop&quot; than a bang, certainly not a reward for wading  through this dull, flimsy concoction. Trevor's writing style is also very  confusing, resulting in many situation which are not clear including the  disappointing ending. Also, what was the purpose of the Thaddeus/ Mrs.  Ferry subplot? It wasn't the slightest bit interesting and had absolutely  nothing to do with the main story. I felt as though I were reading a  different story, except of course, the near comatose Thaddeus was still  around.  If Mr. Trevor would like a write a story about two characters'  past liaison, he should at least find some way to connect it to the main  plot.	2000-03-01
2617174:US	50718004	R1YJXT8WN30EYV	0446674168	56265932	Lives of the Monster Dogs	Books	2	7	9	N	N	BIZARRE	This book begins with a good premise, however a good premise not well executed leaves much to be desired.  The main character is not at all well developed and deserving of absolutely no sympathy.  The plot meanders and  eventually trails off into bits and pieces with an extremely unsatisfying  ending.  I did, however, think the author deserved two stars for her clear  writing style.  Perhaps one should approach a debut novel with a little  less originality.	2000-02-27
2619878:US	50718004	R22K7EL8WWDPZ1	0345373707	183408691	Cry to Heaven	Books	5	143	145	N	N	DAZZLING IN ITS DARKNESS	In my opinion, Cry to Heaven is definitely Anne Rice's finest book.  Beautifully written in the lush, gorgeous prose for which Rice is famous,  Cry to Heaven is rich in detail and presents a fascinating look at the  lives of Italy's 18th century castrati.  The protagonist, Tonio is  extremely well-drawn and memorable.  His struggles to come to terms with  both his life as a whole and his sexuality in particular are nothing less  then soul-wrenching.  I found the erotic scenes, criticized by some  reviewers, to be beautifully written and central to the book's premise.  I  did think, though, that the character of Christina, a central figure in  Tonio's struggles, could have been more fully drawn and introduced earlier.   It seemed to me as though Rice, herself, was not completely acquainted  with Christina and I think the book suffers slightly because of this.  Cry  to Heaven, which contains no witches, vampires or other preternatural  beings, is well-plotted and well-paced, something which cannot be said for  all of Rice's books.  She controls this story masterfully and resists the  urge to people the novel with extraneous characters, ultimately ending the  story on a haunting but richly rewarding note.  With Cry to Heaven, I can  pay Anne Rice the highest compliment--this is the novel I wish I had  written and I can say that about no other book.	2000-02-25
2626237:US	50718004	R3V4OYDO4TSHXO	1580050239	46075101	Climbing High: A Woman's Account of Surviving the Everest Tragedy	Books	1	24	30	N	N	BORING SELF-INDULGENT DRIVEL	As another woman who has actually reached the summit of Mt. Everest, I found this book to be nothing more than self-indulgent &quot;New Age&quot; drivel.  Gammelgaard offers no insight into why the disaster happened and  virtualy ignores the other climbers who were on Everest that day.  The book  has none of the gripping suspense of Into Thin Air and none of the factual  reporting of The Climb.  I'm happy Gammelgaard survived but she should turn  her attentions to things other than writing.  One of the worst books I've  yet to read!	2000-02-21
2626809:US	50718004	R3K8HYWGXNPQVI	0385469624	90188425	The Last Tsar: The Life and Death of Nicholas II	Books	5	44	44	N	N	BEST BOOK EVER ON THE LIFE AND DEATH OF NICHOLAS II	This very factual and well-written book is, in my opinion, the very best on the life and death of Tsar Nicholas II and his family.  Replete with both historical and familial details, it reads like a well-plotted,  well-characterized fiction novel.  The book, however, is all the more  horrifying and heartbreaking because it is true.  Unlike some of the  previous reviewers, I enjoyed Radzinsky's writing style and consider him to  be the ultimate authority on all matters Romanov.  The only book more  factual may be Nicholas and Alexandra, A Lifelong Passion which consists  solely of the family's letters.  The Last Tsar is definitely a must read  for those interested in Romanov Russia and a book that will be enjoyable to  all.	2000-02-20
2626972:US	50718004	REHHUIMLWLQVB	0140242708	166309394	The Flaming Corsage	Books	1	15	20	N	N	DEFEATED ME!	I hate to admit that I've been defeated by a book, but this one did it.  I absolutely could not finish it.  While the premise was good enough, and the opening engaging, the plot's jumps in time were badly handled and the story  really began to drag early. I can't for the life of me imagine what Kennedy  was thinking when this otherwise good author came up with such a mishmash!	2000-02-20
2628581:US	50718004	R37E7JDB8MG4ZU	0312206372	8148905	The Climb: Tragic Ambitions on Everest	Books	5	24	41	N	N	EXTREMELY INFORMATIVE	I gave Jon Krakauer's Into Thin Air five stars because it was a thrilling and very readable account of the 1996 Mt. Everest disaster.  However, as the previous reviewer, Robert Duran, has stated, credibility counts,  especially when reviewing a book of this type.  The Climb is not as  well-written as Into Thin Air, but it still gets five stars in my book for  its accuracy and detached, observant tone.  Unlike Krakauer, who puts  himself in the center of every scene, Boukreev remains impartial and  conveys little emotion.  Personally, I accpet Boukreev's account as the  truer of the two.  Krakauer should be ashamed of himself.  He painted Sandy  Hill Pittman has the &quot;bad girl&quot; of the expedition when Pittman  actually has more high altitude climbing experience than does Krakauer!  Krakauer also strongly hinted that Pittman and Mountain Madness expedition  leader, Scott Fischer, were having an affair, but the woman having an  affair was Lene Gammelgaard, a longtime &quot;friend&quot; of Fischer's  whom he invited along on the expedition without making her pay a fee.  (Pitttman, in contrast, paid everything owed before the climb, and I know  if I need help on Everest I would rather depend on Pittman than on Krakauer  any day.)  I won't go into the other factual errors of Krakauer's book  because previous reviewers have already done a better job than I.  If  you've read Into Thin Air, (and it IS exciting) no matter what you think  about it, do read The Climb as well to balance things out and help you come  to your own conclusions.	2000-02-19
2629674:US	50718004	R2973BIQ9H2ZX5	0916515397	54528722	Renoir, My Father (The Lively Arts)	Books	5	30	33	N	N	A JOY, THANK YOU	This book has given me tremendous insight into the Renoir family as well as the birth of Impressionism.  The previous reviewer said it better than I--it really IS like sitting down and having a conversation with Renoir, himself, and I, too find a new gem with each rereading.  I know of no other book that illuminates the life of an artist so intimately or honestly.	2000-02-18
2630987:US	50718004	R1ZMP3GDZBSY2C	0804109176	990267161	And the Sea Will Tell	Books	5	43	46	N	N	ABSOLUTELY RIVETING IN EVERY WAY	Although this book is based on one of Bugliosi's actual cases, it is far more riveting and spellbinding than any fiction thriller could ever be.  (No doubt many writers of fiction wish they could come up with something  this good--I know I do!)  Bugliosi is a fine writer and does a wonderful  job of characterization as well as weaving a haunting spell of mystery  around the events portrayed.  I did not agree with Bugliosi that Jennifer  was not guilty, but that didn't take away from my overall fascination with  the book.  A sad book, but one with a haunting end that readers will find  hard to forget.	2000-02-17
2637375:US	50718004	R1JAO2668YIGI5	0553212583	363093333	Wuthering Heights (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A MASTERPIECE OF PASSION AND FORCE	Love sometimes encompasses the dark component of obesession and this obsession is beautifully and hauntingly explored in Wuthering Heights, perhaps the most intensely original novel to emerge from 19th century  England.  This is the story of the passionate love between the wild  Heathcliff and the reckless Catherine Earnshaw, both inhabitants of the  Yorkshire moors. So passionate, in fact, are Catherine and Heathcliff that  their love is  doomed to tragedy rather than to fulfillment.  When that  does, indeed happen, Heathcliff, one of the most original and fascinating  characters I have ever  encountered, spirals ever downward into a morass of  self-destruction and obsession.  The symbolism in this novel is rich and  complex and not so easily recognizable as one might first suppose.  The  presentation of the duality of human and non-human existence are deftly  explored.  Catherine and Heathcliff are violent figures striving in vain to  identify themselves as ordinary human beings while disrupting all around  them with the voraciousness of their appetites.  Both ultimately  disintegrate from within due to the passion out of which they are made.  These two wildly intense characters stand out all the more sharply when  contrasted with the simple ordinariness of Nelly Dean and Lockwood.  The  novel's central question, of course, concerns the meaning of Heathhcliff,  who is both diabolical and yet, at the same time, irresistible.  The power  of the novel, does not, however, reside solely in the interpretaion of its  theme.  The setting, the relentless elements of the fire, wind and water of  the moors only serves to deeepen and reinforce the intensity of the story.  The language, although archaic, is poetic, reflecting Bronte's brooding  personal vision.  Extraordinary effects have been achieved with a  remarkable power of formal organization and a brilliant handling of the  time scheme.  While encompassing the most domestic of scenes, this novel  still achieves the depth of an ancient tragedy.  Unforgettably haunting and  beautiful in every way.th of an ancient tragedy.  Unforgettably haunting and  beautiful in every way.	2000-02-12
2643651:US	50718004	R314K3XXU410SL	0708980546	751088888	The Girl In A Swing (CH)	Books	5	54	57	N	N	HAUNTINGLY, HEARTBREAKINGLY BEAUTIFUL	If there is one book I will remember my entire life, this is it.  Richard Adams spins love and horror into a delicately-woven web of lyrical prose that is guaranteed to break your heart.  The story is gossamer-like in its  beauty, yet expresses an intensity of horror I have yet to meet in any  other book to date.  This is a story that will haunt you years after you've  finished the final page.  It absolutely will not let you alone, although  sometimes you may wish it would.	2000-02-07
2645008:US	50718004	R1Y661RO4J6IQV	0385492081	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mt. Everest Disaster	Books	5	21	24	N	N	ENGROSSING AND THOUGHT-PROVOKING	Jon Krakauer's narrative of the 1996 disaster on Mt. Everest is excellently written and extremely engrossing.  Although the events are true, the book reads like a top action/adventure thriller, keeping us  turning pages until the end.  This is definitely a first-person account,  though, and Krakauer makes sure the attention is centered on him, as he  alternately extolls his virtues and reveals his faults.  I felt extremely  saddened when reading this book and I think we must look closely at how and  why this tragedy happened.  I cannot help but fault, in part, the two  guides, Hall and Fischer.  Both were experienced climbers and both had  previously been on Everest.  As guides, these men were running a business  for profit and were desirous of satisfied customers--that meant making the  summit.  But these two men had also accepted the responsibility of caring  for their clients' safety, as well as for the safety of those in  expeditions not their own.  The fact that they ignored self-imposed  turn-around times simply cannot be forgiven.  Ultimately, however, each  person must take responsibility for his or her own actions.  Technically,  Everest is an easy climb, but the physical demands are enormous.  The bulk  of climbers were untrained, unfamiliar with their equipment, and simply not  in the top physical condition needed to withstand the rigors of  high-altitude climbing, a fact of which they certainly must have been  aware.  And if they weren't, then certainly Hall and Fischer were.  Many of  the previous reviewers have faulted the climbers for turning their backs on  Beck Wethers and Yasuko Namba, but once you have actually engaged in  high-altitude climbing, as I have done, you know Everest is not the place  to become your brother's keeper.  No one should have died and had Hall and  Fischer turned around, as they should have, in all probability no one would  have.  Into Thin Air is a fascinating tale and one that poses many  thought-provoking questions each man and woman must answer, not only on  Everest, but in the course of his or her day-to-day life.	2000-02-07
2651105:US	50718004	R1YAHAS89C3SP8	0385497466	376574359	The Brethren	Books	1	12	19	N	N	WHAT IS IT ABOUT GRISHAM?	I swore I would never read another Grisham book.  I'm sure Grisham doesn't care--he has plenty of fans and doesn't need me!  But so many CAN'T be wrong and me right!  So--I tried this book and gave Grisham another chance.   In my opinion, he failed miserably!  The beginning of the book is so  boring I almost gave up during the first chapter.  I'll give Grisham this,  he does do a good job of weaving the two plot strands together and he is  good at plotting.  His plots, however, all turn out to be formulaic and  anti-climactic.  I think men would like Grisham's books a lot more than  women--he has yet to create a good and believable female character.   Understandable.  Well, I hated the book, but I can't say Grisham is bad.   He does, after all, enthrall millions of readers so he has to be doing  something right.  If you're a Grisham fan, buy this book.  If not, skip it.   It's not even Grisham's best!	2000-02-02
2651106:US	50718004	RDB0K0YOPFKZY	0671882953	162268366	Delusions of Grandma	Books	1	16	27	N	N	I THOUGHT IT WAS SUPPOSED TO BE FUNNY?	I bought this book because it was advertised as being hilariously funny.  In a way, I guess it was.  It was so stupid, it was hilariously funny.  The characters were cardboard cliches, the dialogue so dumb I couldn't believe  anyone could write so badly and the plot non-existent.  Had I read,  &quot;Cora reached for her moisturizer,&quot; one more time I would have  assumed that Cora had slithered away in an oil slick!  I thought books were  supposed to have a point--this happens, which leads to this, then this,  etc., etc.  But this book just meanders, changing directions more times  than Dodge 'Em cars.  And where is the humor?  My five year old niece has  written funnier things than this!  I think, but am not sure, of course,  that the book is highly autobiographical--a mistake, of course, since most  of us have lives no one cares to read about--Carrie Fisher included.  If  you're looking for something amusing, warm and funny, stay away from this  book.  If you want something to put you to sleep at night, this might do  it.	2000-02-02
2653206:US	50718004	R3F3QZBP9PCYRY	0517584212	241317805	Perfect Health: The Complete Mind/Body Guide	Books	5	20	25	N	N	EXCELLENT!  A NEW WAY OF LIFE!	In all of Deepak Chopra's books, I've admired his extraordinary compassion for his fellow man.  This book is no exception.  In it, Chopra recognizes the basic differences among body types and he offers us a lifestyle plan  for maximizing the health of each, based of the ancient Indian tradition of  Ayuveda.  Recognizing the fact that you can't fit a square peg into a round  hole, Chopra doesn't make the mistake of suggesting that we all strive for  the severely anorexic look that is destroying the health of so many today.   A few of the previous reviewers have attacked Chopra, saying he is  overweight.  I've never noticed that and I've seen him many times.  Even if  he were, his weight should not be an issue here.  And isn't it time that  SOMEONE put wellness before superficiality?  Besides, what could be more  stunning than glowing, radiant health?	2000-01-31
2657588:US	50718004	R1T4RUZNDLE7W6	0671025724	440823337	Final Analysis: The Making and Unmaking of a Psychoanalyst	Books	5	36	42	N	N	EXCELLENT	Anyone even remotely associated with analysis, as either a patient, friend of a patient, or an analyst himself, should read this very informative and fascinating book.  Clear and well-written, Masson does a wonderful job of  exposing the clique of therapists who get rich by deceiving their patients,  pretending to care and asserting knowledge they simply don't possess.  A  very engrossing book that explores a heretofore closed society.	2000-01-28
2658224:US	50718004	R33RO5A4BRR8U8	0609802011	21188944	Dogs Never Lie About Love : Reflections on the Emotional World of Dogs	Books	5	10	11	N	N	THE TITLE SAYS IT ALL	This is a warm and wonderful look at the emotional life of the greatest animal on earth, dogs.  Masson writes lovingly as he explores how dogs communicate, not only with humans, but with one another and with other dogs  as well as with other species of animals.  A must for all dog (or just  animal) lovers!	2000-01-28
2658595:US	50718004	R2G3MHV0UPJ8IR	0679731830	926973023	The Journalist and the Murderer	Books	1	33	69	N	N	POORLY WRITTEN REVIEW OF A VERY INTERESTING PREMISE	Janet Malcolm takes a very interesting premise--the relationship of a journalist to his subject--and turns it into a trite essay on the gruesome MacDonald murders.  The book's words seem to indicate that Malcolm,  herself, fell for MacDonald's smooth veneer--she waxes longingly about the  fact that he can break a doughnut and not drop any of the sugar!  Who  cares?  Had she stuck to her subject matter--the relationship between  journalist and the one being written about this could have been a good  book.  But the book's contents indicate to me that Malcolm had another,  hidden agenda that involved her choice of the heinous MacDonald as subject  matter.	2000-01-28
2660573:US	50718004	R3P912NDLCXG6N	0385492081	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mt. Everest Disaster	Books	5	3	3	N	N	EXCELLENT, ENGROSSING AND THOUGHT-PROVOKING	Jon Krakauer's narrative of the 1996 disaster on Mt. Everest is excellently written and extremely engrossing.  Although the events are true, the book reads like a first-class action/adventure thriller, keeping  you turning pages until the very end.  This is definitely as first-person  account and Krakauer makes sure the attention is forever focused on him as  he alternately extolls his virtues and reveals his faults.  But we must not  forget that Into Thin Air is true.  This is the recounting of a tragedy,  not a work of fiction.  As such, we must take an extremely close look at  the people involved.  I felt enormously saddened when reading this book.  A  life can never be replaced, and in 1996, lives were lost, both callously  and needlessly, on Everest.  I think we need to look closely at how and why  this tragedy happened.  I don't think there can be much doubt that greed  played an enormous factor in this series of events.  While no one deserved  to die on Everest, I cannot help but fault, in part, the two guides, Hall  and Fischer.  Both were experienced climbers and both had previously been  on Everest.  As guides, these men were running a business-for-profit.  A  good businessman garners satisfied customers, hence Hall and Fischer's  desire to take their clients to the summit.  But these two men had also  accepted the responsibility of caring for their clients' safety, as well as  for the safety of those in expeditions not their own.  The desire to reach  the summit won out as both guides ignored self-imposed  &quot;turn-around&quot; deadlines  and knowingly endangered the safety of  all involved.  In the end, Hall and Fischer both paid for their  recklessness with their lives.  But are they, then, to blame?  Only in  part.  Ultimately, each person must take responsibility for his or her own  actions.  Technically, Everest is an easy climb, but the physical demands  are enormous.  The bulk of the climbers were untrained and unfamiliar with  the equipment andsimply not in the top physical condition needed to  withstand the rigors of high-altitude climbing--a fact of which they must  certainly have been aware.  Many, Krakauer notes with horror, were wearing  new hiking boots and Yasuko Namba didn't even know how to use her crampons.   What was it that made these people believe they could tackle the strenuous  demands of any mountain, let alone Everest?  And if they weren't aware of  their shortcomings, then surely Hall and Fischer were.  Were they shirking  their responsibilities to safety, hoping to make the summit only because  their clients had each paid $65,000 for the thrill of standing on top of  the world?  Is that what a life is worth?  Once the storm hit, Krakauer  gives us fine examples of heroism, but he also shows us more examples of  man's inhumanity to man.  Yes, we must all take responsibility for our own  lives, but we are all also our brother's keeper.  The fact that the  expeditions (and especially the Japanese) turned their backs on both Beck  Weathers and Yasuko Namba is an act for which all involved will ultimately  be held accountable, if not in this life, then in the one to follow.  Into  Thin Air is a fascinating tale, but at its heart it poses many  thought-provoking questions each man and woman must answer, not only on  Everest, but in the course of his or her day-to-day life.	2000-01-26
2662689:US	50718004	RH3AC0K2475TG	0380727412	99165614	Poison	Books	5	14	16	N	N	LYRICALLY BEAUTIFUL PROSE	Poison is written in lyrically beautiful prose that weaves a hypnotic spell around the plot.  Kathryn Harrison is a master with words and recreates seventeenth century France and Spain in a marvelous fashion.  The  interweaving of the two plots and the parallels in the lives of the French  and Spanish women are done with a storyteller's ultimate skill.  Poison is  rich with themes of lust and spirituality, redemption and betrayal, sin and  forgiveness.  This is a beautiful, but darkly haunting novel that won't be  forgotten.	2000-01-25
2663479:US	50718004	R208C37J2W0UC5	0385421982	859359548	The Pelican Brief	Books	1	14	22	N	N	HATE IT	This was my first Grisham book and I hated it.  It began with a bang only to have Chapter Two issue nothing more than a whimper.  From there it was all downhill.  Grisham introduced far too many characters with nothing to  do but attempt to keep the suspense high--I needed a scorecard just to keep  track of who was who and there are a few I never figured out.  Finally, I  gave up trying..it wasn't worth the effort.  The characters were cliches  and too unbelievable for words.  When we finally do find out the contents  of the infamous Pelican Brief, it's a supreme letdown.  My first reaction  was--that's IT?   Grisham should also get his facts straight.  He has the  beauteous (and stupid) Darby changing her hair color from black to pale  blonde to red.  If Grisham would have consulted his wife he might have  known that it is impossible--you can't lighten the dark colors!  Grisham's  writing also sounds belaboured, he tries to hard--in one sentence a  character says he would have continued talking if another hadn't showed him  his palms.  Showed him his palms!   It took me three months to figure that  one out.  People say Grisham's books are good so everyone else runs out to  buy a copy.  This being the case, why should Grisham even try?	2000-01-24
2663813:US	50718004	R1D1KR2HJE4RO0	0449911357	8343212	Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistle Stop Cafe (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A GEM	I love Fannie Flagg's quiet sense of humor and the way she really brings her characters to life.  They are real people, not cardboard cut-outs.  It's wonderful to read a book that explores the themes of friendship and  love and doesn't depend on gratuitous violence to drive the plot.  Sad and  funny at the same time, this is a book that really touches the heart and  stays there.	2000-01-24
2663990:US	50718004	R2ZZB9UA491HYG	0345416260	21574649	Pope Joan: A Novel	Books	2	24	32	N	N	DULL RETELLING OF A CONTROVERSIAL LEGEND	I, myself, believe Pope Joan was about as real as the Loch Ness monster and the author of this book does admit that she, herself, is of the opinion that a definitive answer can never be found.  All that aside, the legend of  Pope Joan offers a fascinating premise to an author trained in the art of  historical fiction.  This book, however, falls far short of its initial  promise.  What should have been an intriguing look at interesting  characters in a setting replete with rich, historic detail comes across as  dull, flat and boring.  First, it is quite evident that Cross did not  thoroughly research the ninth century, as many of her details are patently  wrong.  Second, she gives us too much backstory (a common error of  beginning novelists and this is Cross's first).  I kept reading and hoping  she'd get to the main event and fill us in on the less interesting details  on a need-to-know basis.  Third, I found none of the characters at all  credible.  I couldn't identify with any of them or understand their  motivations, even though Cross used multiple point-of-view.  None of the  characters really &quot;rang true&quot; and because of this I found them  all quite unlikeable, Joan in particular.  Had Joan actually existed, she  would have been an intelligent woman who hungered for some of the  advantages men were given.  Cross however, ignored the chance to conduct a  fascinating look at the soul of a ninth century woman and chooses instead  to portray Joan as asexual, possessing neither the soul of a man or a  woman.  Fourth, Cross's prose is clumsy and the dialogue completely  unrealistic.  It sounds like the debut novel it is.  Reading the book was a  chore rather than a delight.  The ending, especially, was so abrupt I had  to reread it just to make sure I'd gotten it right.  The final result was  this:  What could have been a highly interesting look at a controversial  legend became as dull and bland as a pitcher of skimmed milk.	2000-01-24
2664681:US	50718004	R32V8ITZRPVT5A	0446343455	293791358	Tourist Season	Books	4	9	13	N	N	OFFBEAT NOT FUNNY	I bought this book because it was supposed to be funny.  I didn't find it funny at all. It was different and not bad--had a better plot than all the Grisham and Turow novels.  Sure, the characters were offbeat--this isn't  your usual mystery, but funny?  No way.  But then maybe I'm just missing  the point.  I think men would appreciate this author's style more than  women would.	2000-01-24
2666810:US	50718004	R3EUP77XY6UZC9	0375700757	11590154	Cold Mountain: A Novel	Books	2	13	20	N	N	I DON'T GET IT OR LIKE IT	I really think I'm going to stop reading &quot;debut&quot; novels.  I know that isn't very nice but most of them are a major disappointment and this is no exception.  The characters are cliches, rather than being fully  developed, so it's hard to impossible to care about any one of them.   Unlike some of the other reviewers, I found the prose lumpy and laborious.   Frazier also falls into many pitfalls of the novice writer, such as the  &quot;he said&quot; syndrome.  An example is found on page 335 of the  hardcover edition--I can't get to sleep, she said.  I'm awake, Ada said.   What's keeping me from sleeping is I'm thinking about what I'll do with him  if he lives, Ruby said.  With Inman, Ada said.  With Pap.  We'll take him  home and care for him is what, Ada siad.  I'm obliged, Ruby said.  You've  never been obliged to anyone before, Ada said.  That too, Ruby said.  After  about ten pages of this easily-corrected mistake, I had to put the book  down or go nuts.  I wondered if Frazier even READ the manuscript he wrote.   He DOES have promise, I'll give him that, but he needs a few lessons on the  art and craft of novel writing before continuing, something any editor or  even first-reader should have spotted immediately.	2000-01-22
2667005:US	50718004	R1EFLWSMUXGL9G	0060924306	990253548	The Egoscue Method of Health Through Motion: Revolutionary Program That Lets You Rediscover the Body's Power to Rejuvenate It	Books	5	44	47	N	N	ABSOLUTELY THE GREATEST!	Pete Egoscue is a genius!  This book is easy to read and Egoscue's message is crystal clear.  He makes the most sense I've ever heard and I've been searching for answers to chronic pain for years!  Unlike previous  reviewers, though, I don't think Egoscue sounds egotistical--I think he  sounds caring--he's just speaks with an air of authority and I like that  when I'm entrusting someone with my health!  The Egoscue method  works--plain and simple.  And everyone needs it--you may think you don't,  but that's just because today's sendentary lifestyle hasn't caught up with  you yet.  This is the most worthwhile book I've ever purchased and I  recommend it to everyone--bar none!	2000-01-22
2667283:US	50718004	R2SCJFA1LNO2IB	0609803395	972723016	Desserts (Best of Martha Stewart Living)	Books	5	16	18	N	N	I LOVE MARTHA	I adore Martha Stewart and agree with the first reviewer who said she's the greatest cook, seamtress and gardener.  As a wife, mother and homemaker with a huge garden, Marhta's books have improved my life in so many ways.   This one is no exception.  The photographs are beautiful and the recipes  absolutely delicious.  Anyone who loves desserts won't regret buying this  book!	2000-01-22
2667419:US	50718004	R2NPYZGWLSDFU	067978120X	834025931	Chasing Cezanne: A Novel	Books	5	10	10	N	N	VINTAGE MAYLE	Chasing Cezanne isn't Mayle's best book, but it's still vintage Mayle--a fun romp through the French countryside.  And, as usual, Mayle brings his special brand of magic to this book as well--he captures the essence of  Provence and somehow manages to convey it with crystal clarity and lots of  laughs.	2000-01-22
2667651:US	50718004	R1JERXBDSOJWAJ	0609803611	320425302	Arranging Flowers (Best of Martha Stewart Living Series)	Books	5	60	62	N	N	BEAUTIFUL AND PRACTICAL!	This is an extremely beautiful book with plenty of gorgeous photos of terrific flower arrangements.  But a lot of books fit that description.  What sets this one head and shoulders above the rest is the practical,  well-written and easy-to-follow text.  Martha has divided the book into  four sections, following the four seasons--and she gives us gorgeous  arrangements for each.  Besides telling us HOW to arrange the flowers,  Martha also gives us tips on what flowers mix well with what and how to  care for them.  For example, I never knew that daffodils are best used  alone since they give off a substance that is toxic to other flowers.  As a  woman, as a homemaker and as a gardener, I just loved this book.  It's  written so we can actually use it, rather than just being one of those  glossy books done by interior decorators that you look at once, sigh over  then close.  This  practical and beautiful book is gorgeously photographed  and written in Martha's lovely, intimate style.  The best book on flower  arranging ever!  A must for anyone who loves flowers or has a garden!	2000-01-21
2669009:US	50718004	R2JNOQM7A26IHY	0465085857	929745996	Thoughts Without A Thinker: Psychotherapy From A Buddhist Perspective	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Original and Much Needed	If you have an interest in either psychotherapy or Buddhism, this book will be fascinating.  The author does an excellent job of integrating the two subjects when possible and also explains when and why the two can never  be fully integrated.  This is very basic Buddhist theory and very basic  psychotherapy and is not meant to be a teaching tool in either subject.   Instead, it shows how the integration of Buddhist theory can maximize  results in psychotherapy.  If you're looking for texts on Buddhist theory  alone, look elsewhere.  There were far too many &quot;case histories&quot;  in the book for my taste, hence the four-star rating, but I do suppose  anyone not trained in the two disciplines described needs examples for  clarification.  While definitely not for everyone, this book is a  fascinating look at a subject that needs much more exploration.	2000-01-21
2669682:US	50718004	R316GC4W9V8130	0312026358	759106565	Richard Chamberlain: An Actor's Life	Books	3	14	15	N	N	GLOSSED OVER	This book is interesting and fun reading for all Chamberlain fans, but it simply glosses over the surface of the life of an enigmatic and complex actor.  There is really nothing in-depth here, which, I suppose, is exactly  how Chamberlain wants it.	2000-01-20
2669939:US	50718004	R1CS779YBAAZ8O	0440224764	999720718	The Partner	Books	1	5	8	N	N	FOURTH AND LAST	This was my fourth and last John Grisham book.  It began well enough with the hero being tortured in a South American jungle by God-knows-who.  But my desire to know more about this character quickly dissolved.  Like all of  Grisham's characters, this one, too, was not only cliched, but mega-stupid  (a la Darby Shaw in The Pelican Brief who used her credit card, for God's  sake when she was being followed).  The ending alone proved that.  Why in  the world  any man with even a modicum of intelligence would ever want to  see THAT witch again is beyond me.  Grisham treats us likes he's writing to  five-year olds and I, for one, don't like it.  Goodbye, John Grisham and  good riddance!	2000-01-20
2673899:US	50718004	R1575OMTGA46X2	0062725009	172232258	Writing Screenplays That Sell	Books	1	28	45	N	N	ABSOLUTELY NOTHING SPECIAL	While there is nothing BAD about this book (as there is in Viki King's wierd, little tome) there is absolutely nothing special about it either.  It kind of reminds me of the proliferation of O.J. Simpson books out there  right after the verdict--if you've read one, you've read them all.  This  book offers no new insight, no special spark, you know what I mean.  And  who in the heck is Michael Hauge.  I used to work in Hollywood and, as far  as I know, he doesn't write screenplays!  As I did in my review of Viki  King's book, I recommend Syd Field and Lajos Egri.  Field has thousands of  hours of re-writing to his credit--he's a real professional who knows this  business INSIDE and OUT.  And Lajos Egri?  What more need be said.  His ART  OF DRAMATIC WRITING is a classic that can help any writer--screenplay,  stage or novelist!   If you're someone who's trying to make it in the  tough world of Hollywood screenwriting, you REALLY owe yourself the  BEST--and that's Syd Field's SCREENPLAY and Lajos Egri's ART OF DRAMATIC  WRITING.  Bibles of the industry, written by men who know!	2000-01-17
2674071:US	50718004	R1IN111JOP4HQE	0062730665	636126079	How to Write a Movie in 21 Days: The Inner Movie Method	Books	1	23	44	N	N	REALLY WIERD!	I thought this book was the strangest I've ever read regarding screenwriting.  Screenwriting and spirituality may or may not mix, but spirituality really has nothing to do with writing a good screenplay!  I  have to agree with the previous reviewer who gave the book one star and say  that I, too, found little practical advice in this book and the premise is  even stranger.  Why 21 days?  Why does the author suggest that we whip out  a screenplay in only 21 days?  Isn't quality better than speed.  I  recommend Syd Field and Lajos Egri instead.  Both are real pros and their  books offer much detail and useful advice.	2000-01-17
2674118:US	50718004	RZ3589KESXBTW	0446671002	58848637	The Celestine Prophecy: An Adventure	Books	1	6	9	N	N	OH, COME ON....	Oh, come on, people, are your lives so shallow that you need this trite and fluffy stuff to nourish your spirituality?  I know the book has been enormously popular and I guess that just goes to show how distant we've all  become--from each other and from ourselves.  I found this book so  unappealing I couldn't even finish it.  I was going to throw it away, but  donated it to the local library instead.  Some lost and bereft soul might  read it and actually believe he benefits.  There is absolutely nothing of  value between the covers of this book.  It would have been worth more had  the author left the pages blank.  Then I could have at least used it for  notes.	2000-01-17
2674375:US	50718004	R279ADEX6H6M7T	044651652X	879659950	The Bridges of Madison County	Books	1	14	20	N	N	I HAD TO LAUGH...	when I read the review from Dave in the Great Midwest because I AGREE THOROUGHLY!   I, too, read this book in an afternoon on the advice of a friend and I, too, was apalled.  The characters ARE both quite pathetic.  And since when did adultry get to be so romantic?  The premise is stupid  and the dialogue is atrocious.  The male character could well be an escapee  from a mental hospital, he says such bombastically, nonsensical things!  I  think the popularity of this book and the subsequent movie just go to show  that if you TELL people something is good, most will believe it.	2000-01-17
2674520:US	50718004	R3KJJNUSLX5EJJ	B00004THO3	879659950	The Bridges of Madison County	Books	1	1	1	N	N	I HAD TO LAUGH...	when I read the review from Dave in the Great Midwest because IAGREE THOROUGHLY!  I, too, read this book in an afternoon on the advice of a friend and I, too, was apalled.  The characters ARE both quite pathetic.  And since when did adultry get to be so romantic? The premise is stupid and the dialogue is atrocious.  The male character could well be an escapee from a mental hospital, he says such bombastically, nonsensical things!  I think the popularity of this book and the subsequent movie just go to show that if you TELL people something is good, most will believe it.	2000-01-17
2674535:US	50718004	R3LOQIXC318BAP	0679441247	539544634	Encore Provence	Books	5	15	16	N	N	JUST AS DELIGHTFUL	I really can't understand why people didn't like this book as much as Mayle's previous works.  I think it's absolutely delightful.  Mayle works his special brand of magic and captures the essence of Provence perfectly.   Some reviewers have suggested that Mayle write about other locales instead,  but to me that would be like John Grisham writing a book that didn't  contain a main character from the legal profession.  Provence is Peter  Mayle country and he describes it with genius.  I can't wait until his NEXT  book!	2000-01-17
2674703:US	50718004	R31V0N7IBVHG5I	0671726730	972577972	To Dance With the White Dog	Books	5	26	30	N	N	THOSE WHO LOVE WILL KNOW HOW PERFECT IT IS	This is one of those rare, perfect books that will stay with you for the rest of your life.  A bittersweet premise (the prospect of growing old and dying), the book is filled with hope and love and the promise of more to  come.  The characters (especially the main character and his wife) are  unforgettably lovable and people who run the gamut of emotions.  The plot  never slows, and it speaks straight to the heart. This is a special book  that can stand on its own with no special effects needed.  Although I'd  call it &quot;quiet,&quot;  it packs an emotional wallop, but one you'll  love.  Anyone who's really loved will both laugh and cry when reading this  book, and I can guarantee one thing--no one will ever forget it.  Buy it,  cherish it, give it to someone you DEARLY love.  This is definitely an  American classic and storytelling at its best.  Sheer magic!	2000-01-17
2675038:US	50718004	R2WO2Y81IGCYQS	0582082412	640736708	Catherine de'Medici	Books	5	40	41	N	N	WELL-RESEARCHED AND INTERESTING	I agree completely with the previous reviewer from Florida and I, too, would like to know why all of Catherine's children were considered bad.  Professor Knecht has done a very admirable job in this well-researched book  and it is quite obvious that he knows his subject well.  Catherine  de'Medici was an interesting woman--a member of the Florentine Medici, but  an insignificant one.  All that changed when she married the man who was to  become Henry II, King of France.  Although she may have been a peripheral  member of the Italian aristocracy, Catherine was of pre-eminent importance  to French history.  She was controversial, but, as the previous reviewer  states, Professor Knecht was very fair.  He explores both Catherine's  virtures and faults in a level-headed fashion.  This book, however, is far  more than a biography of one of France's most controversial and enigmatic  figures.  It is also a fascinating narrative heavily laced with French  history.  If you like your biographies a little light, I wouldn't recommend  this book.  But if you really want to understand this period in French  history, and this fascinating woman, I would recommend it highly.	2000-01-17
2675613:US	50718004	RBL377MHAS7NY	0451407636	260255103	Mockery of Justice: The True Story of the Sam Sheppard Murder Case	Books	4	18	21	N	N	A MYSTERY NEVER SOLVED	While this book doesn't prove who really did kill Marilyn Sheppard, it does provide us with enough evidence to believe, beyond a reasonable doubt that, that Dr. Sam Sheppard was truly innocent.  Unlike, Fatal Justice,  which attempts to &quot;prove&quot; the innocence of Jeffrey MacDonald,  Mockery of Justice does provide us with &quot;hard&quot; evidence  indicating that someone else was involved--not Sam Sheppard.  Whatever your  beliefs regarding the case, the book is well-researched, informative and  thought-provoking.	2000-01-16
2676659:US	50718004	R24R4SPO6EXH2N	0345425308	772509401	Violin	Books	2	12	15	N	N	DARKLY CONFUSING	I've enjoyed some of Anne Rice's previous books while I found others too confusing and ill-plotted with too many extraneous characters thrown in just to keep the story boiling.  While Violin is as dark and lush as her  previous work (the prose itself is gorgeous), I think it's probably Rice's  worst.  It begins hauntingly enough:  the heroine cannot force herself to  stop sleeping with her dead husband's rotting corpse, lest she lose the  memory of him altogether.  From this intriguing beginning, the waters grow  ever muddier.  The plot begins to meander and the characters' motivations  become less and less clear.  It finally became a chore just to turn the  pages.  What promised to be a dark, lush mood piece evolved into nothing  more than a jumbled stream-of-consciousness with a very unsatisfying  ending.  Of course, the similarities between the main character and Rice,  herself, cannot be overlooked.  Anne Rice is usually too &quot;dark&quot;  for my taste, but she IS an immensely talented writer when she sticks to  her plot thread.  If Stephen King is the Master of Horror (and he is), and  Mary Higgins Clark the Master of Suspense, then Anne Rice has certainly  earned the title Master of Darkness.  Please, Ms. Rice, sit down and plot a  new vampire tale, then let your imagination go to work.  I'm sure you'll  find yourself back on top of the bestseller list again!	2000-01-15
2676943:US	50718004	R3LJ2QT9L35275	0385490445	107805179	Alias Grace: A Novel	Books	5	26	27	N	N	RIVETING!	This book is based on fact:  a many years old unsolved murder case, yet it reads like a first-class work of fiction.  The characters, to Atwood's immense credit, are supremely believable and well-motivated, the plot is  clean and credible, the setting superb and the ending satisfying.  That we  don't know the heroine's final lot in life matters little.  Atwood grabs  your interest on the first page and never loses it, building suspense from  one paragraph to the next.  It would have easy for a lesser author to let  the story get out of hand, providing us with pat endings and easy answers,  something Atwood never does.  Alias Grace is a masterfully-told tale...a  work of art woven from precious few facts and one extremely gifted writer's  well-controlled imagination.	2000-01-15
2677512:US	50718004	R24OBU0EP1S17R	0345406400	255997198	The Romanovs: the Final Chapter	Books	4	8	9	N	N	EXTREMELY WELL-RESEARCHED AND INTERESTING	A very well-researched and extremely interesting book that provides many answers to what really happened after the massacre of the Romanov family.  The book is fascinating simply for its chapters on Anna Anderson alone.   Massie, however continues to do what he did in his previous book about the  Romanovs:  he tends to sugar-coat their lives, giving them an unrealistic,  fairy-tale existence, rather than letting the family's true personality  shine through.  I also agree with the previous reviewer who said that a  family tree would have been a nice addition!  Still, very interesting and  well-worth the investment.	2000-01-15
2678703:US	50718004	RP3124VNJ1A72	0385486731	235734926	A Lifelong Passion: Nicholas and Alexandra: Their Own Story	Books	5	33	33	N	N	A MASTERPIECE	A Lifelong Passion is, at its heart, a magnificent love story, made all the richer because, unlike most love stories, it is rooted in absolute truth.  Although the dynamics of the relationship between Nicholas and  wife, Alexandra, are quite complex, there is no doubt that they adored each  other and their five beautiful children.  Politics aside, the heart of  their life lay in the family.  And this was a fmaily undivided.  They  shared everything:  their joys, sorrows, tragedies, fears, triumphs, and  ultimately, their tragic and untimely deaths.<br />A Lifelong Passion is not a  work of fiction.  The authors have meticulously researched the diaries and  letters of both Nicholas and Alexandra and their children, then created a  compilation that reads like a passionate thriller.  We really come to know  the Romanovs as well as those close to them:  the brothers and sisters of  Tsar Nicholas, the Dowager Empress Marie, Kaiser Wilhelm, Queen Victoria,  and others.<br />A Lifelong Passion is also a portrait of the decline of a  dynasty, seen through the eyes of those who lived it.  Filled with  political plots and intrigue, the book serves as a sweeping panorama of the  last days of the Russian Empire.  We get to know Imperial Russia  &quot;firsthand&quot; and I found myself thoroughly engrossed.<br />A Lifelong  Passion is a long book, yet it is never boring.  The pace never slows and  our desire to know more never ends.  Ultimately, the book ends in a tragedy  made all the greater because we have come to know the victims so very well.  Whether you agree or disagree with the politics of Tsar Nicholas II,  whether you like or dislike the people involved, you can't help but feel  you've come to know them, and their tragic demise causes you to  grieve.<br />This is one of the best books I've ever read.  It's a love story  as poignant as The Thorn Birds, as panoramic in scope as Doctor Zhivago.  A  timeless classic filled with history, tragedy and love.  Highly  recommended!nded!	2000-01-14
2679087:US	50718004	RSCYGTMPSF28X	095216440X	187739757	The Romanovs: Love, Power & Tragedy	Books	5	44	45	N	N	INTIMATE AND BEAUTIFUL!	A beautiful look at the last Imperial Family of Russia.  Anyone with an interest in Nicholas and Alexandra would love to own this book.  Although the text is interesting and informative, it is through the photographs,  taken from the Romanov family albums, that we come to know them so  intimately.  Both Nicholas and Alexandra were phtography enthusiasts; they  and their five children all owned cameras and used them  frequently.<br />Lavish and gorgeous, this book is also unique.  I cannot  recall one other famous person (or family) to whom we have such intimate  photographic access.  Reproductions of the family's letters and diaries are  also included.<br />This book would certainly be a beautiful and treasured  addition to any Romanoy collection.	2000-01-14
2679889:US	50718004	R26C55T6VW8VAZ	0679731148	669003939	A Year in Provence	Books	5	33	35	N	N	CAPTURES THE ESSENCE OF PROVENCE--PERFECT IN EVERY WAY	I was born in and grew up in Provence.  In this book, Peter Mayle does the seemingly impossible--he captures the essence of a place so perfectly the reader is almost transported.  Far from being a travel book, A Year in  Provence is a timeless classic, both beautifully written and hilariously  funny.  Mayle is a genius when it comes to Provence.  His characters are  lively and full of fun, the situations (e.g., German campers) real, and the  tone of book so perfect it's a dream.  Read it for enjoyment, read it to  learn about Provence.  Either way you will be entertained and you certainly  can't go wrong.	2000-01-13
2680098:US	50718004	R1XLHKQ7LTSBU4	0500541876	584038940	The Most Beautiful Villages of Provence (The Most Beautiful Villages)	Books	5	91	92	N	N	A Gorgeous Book	As a Frenchwoman now living in Switzerland, I treasure this book.  I was born in Provence and love the gorgeous little hill villages of this region.  The author and photographer certainly do the area justice.  The text is  full of useful information:  Hotels, restaurants, when festivals occur.   And the photographs are beautiful beyond compare.  I adore this book and  love looking at it.  There really is no place like Provence!  If you're  contemplating a trip to the area, this book is an absolutely must have.  A  very informative guide that is gorgeous in its own right!	2000-01-13
2680474:US	50718004	R2WMP7DZ0NGAYT	0805011714	267128629	Creating Unforgettable Characters: A Practical Guide to Character Development in Films, TV Series, Advertisements, Novels & Short Stories	Books	1	24	102	N	N	YOU DEFINITELY DON'T NEED THIS BOOK!	I've worked in Hollywood as a page one rewriter and have taught classes on screenwriting.  I'm also the daughter of Jean Renoir, the man Alfred  Hitchcock called the &quot;Greatest director who ever lived.&quot;  No one  needs this book.  Linda Seger is not a Hollywood professional.  I wouldn't  encourage anyone to try to crack the tough nut that is Hollywood, but if  you feel you must, then by all means get the best in the business:  read  Syd Field and Lajos Egri.  These are two professionals who are tops in  their field.	2000-01-13
2681128:US	50718004	R2MQMTL58D0VS4	0440576474	793284806	Screenplay: The Foundations of Screenwriting; A step-by-step guide from concept to finished script	Books	5	39	46	N	N	A CLASSIC!	Many of the previous reviews have concentrated on the fact that Syd Field has given seminars on screenwriting, as if this fact makes him less worthy to write a book.  They couldn't be more wrong.  While Field has given seminars, he IS quite qualified.  It is true that he has no &quot;official&quot; screenwriting credit, but he has done many, many years of re-writing, something Linda Seger has NEVER done, to my knowledge, although she does purport to be a &quot;script doctor.&quot; As a former re-writer myself and the daughter of famed French director, Jean Renoir, I've seen many beginner's scripts and quite frankly, most of them are less than fifth-rate.  ANYONE could learn all they need to know about screenplay structure from Field.  I did.  Previous reviewers have criticized him for making it seem too simple.  Well, once you know the formula it IS simple.  Just as Field says, screenwriting is formula writing and once you know the formula, you're limited only by your imagination.  The previous reviewer says Field has gotten rich off seminars encouraging people to write screenplays that will never be made into movies.  First, I doubt that Field has gotten rich off seminars.  No one gets rich from seminars. I don't even know if Field IS rich and I don't think the status of his bank account should be a factor in evaluating his book.  Second, Field makes it clear that very few screenplays will ever be made into movies, be they good OR bad.  He doesn't give false hope, he doesn't suger-coat the difficulty of breaking into this area of writing.  What he does do is help those determined to &quot;make it&quot; in the tough world of Hollywood screenwriting.  I worked in Hollywood.  I didn't care for it, so I left.  I wouldn't encourage anyone to be a screenwriter--Hollywood is too much of a &quot;closed society.&quot; But closed or not, there are those who &quot;Screenplay&quot; is a classic.  It is simply the best book, written by the most qualified man, on the subject ofscreenwriting. If you really want to learn to write a first-class screenplay then go with experience.  Field's the best.  As for who remembers Witness.  I do.  It's a classic, just like this book.  END	2000-01-12
2687264:US	50718004	R5O6QGSMEG302	1860641644	407394334	Chateaux of the Loire	Books	4	23	23	N	N	BEAUTIFUL!	As a Frenchwoman who spent last summer touring the Loire and its chateaux, I was a bit disappointed in this book.  Had I wanted a book about French history, I would have bought a book about French history.  I was looking  for a lot more of the &quot;now&quot; and a lot less of the  &quot;then.&quot;  The old black and white photos may delight some, but I  found them a major disappointment.  The chateaux, as they are today, are a  glorious feast for the eyes; more up-to-date photos would have garnered  this book five stars as far as I'm concerned.  But all that aside, it is a  lovely, over-sized coffee table book and one that should be &quot;required  reading&quot; for anyone anticipating a visit to the Loire.	2000-01-08
2687690:US	50718004	R3O5PWXQB7TSKQ	0671000470	99103294	Pope John Paul II	Books	5	19	22	N	N	A BEAUTIFUL MUST READ FOR PEOPLE OF ALL FAITHS	Pope John Paul II has revolutionized the Papacy, stripping away much of the secrecy and making the Pope, for the first time in history, a Shepherd available to his flock.  Although I thought this book leaned a little too  heavily on Poland and Polish history, I will give in and say it enhanced my  understanding of this complex and charismatic Pope.  A very thorough  biolgraphy with fascinating looks at behind-the-scenes-politics in Vatican  City.  Because of John Paul II's impact, he gets my vote as Man of the  Century and I recommend this book as a must read for people of any faith.	2000-01-08
2687825:US	50718004	R3V4HSCO4ARXKA	0380731649	438241163	Just Desserts: Martha Stewart the Unauthorized Biography	Books	5	38	44	N	N	DELICIOUSLY DECADENT DISH	I couldn't decide whether to give this book five stars or only one.  On one hand, I think Oppenheimer has gone overboard in accentuating the negative.  We all have negative aspects in our personal lives and I daresay  any one of us COULD be made to appear blacker than the darkest night.  On  the other hand, I love dish and &quot;Just Desserts&quot; is the dishest  dish of all!  Having a fully-functioning mind of my own, I read the book  for what it is...delicious dish...and while I think it overly-critical, I  have to admit that I loved every word.  Martha Stewart is, and always has  been, my idol.  I devour her books and TV show s with gusto, own stock in  her company and purchase her products.  And even though I'm a busy  professional myself, I do stencil my furniture, gild leaves, bake  gingerbread houses and sugar fruit.  I'm sure Martha has a warm, wonderful  side and quite frankly I adore her!  I don't know why Oppenheimer chose to  ignore every positive, but I respect his decision.  As for those in the  book who claim to have been both used and abused by Martha--we don't stay  in any relationship unless we're getting SOMETHING positive in return.   Therefore, I felt little or no sympathy for Andy and Alexis Stewart and  various others of their ilk.  If they don't like being around Ms. Stewart,  they're free to move on.  But read the book with an open mind; it's just a  small part of one incredible woman's life.	2000-01-08
2689791:US	50718004	R35DY0T2SX3WYZ	067100042X	851255898	Silent Night	Books	5	13	13	N	N	One Of Her Best	This is one of Mary Higgins Clark's best books.  Although short, it packs action and suspense onto each and every page.  The child-hero was terrific--a real boy any of us could identify with.  I really cared and I  thank the author for that.  I just wish Ms. Clark would stop making her  female heroines (i.e., the child's mother) so physically gorgeous!  Can't  we have someone ordinary for a change?	2000-01-07
2692660:US	50718004	R1OVRL78NZTQPA	0553572512	228304751	Playing for the Ashes	Books	4	35	43	N	N	Terrific Plot But The Characters Could Have Been Better	No one plots as well as Elizabeth George and her books are worth every penny for that alone.  With the execption of Barbara Havers, though, I just don't like her characters and find them more than a little unbelievable.   (I can usually overlook this, however, because the basic story is so darn  good.)  With this book, however, Ms. George veers into the wierd and the  absurd.  Olivia was so very disgusting that I could barely finish the book  despite the engaging plot.  George did do a fabulous job of intertwining  the two stories but Olivia was just too much of a freak to feel any empathy  for her or for her plight.  Frankly, I wished she'd just drop dead.   Olivia, that is.  I'm probably one of the least prudish persons in the  world, but there are things I prefer not to read about in an otherwise  first-rate mystery.  The softening of Olivia would have done a lot to  improve this book and render it a true classic.  I wish Ms. George would  leave the sexually explicit themes to others, but I'll keep reading--her  plots are simply the best.	2000-01-05
2693142:US	50718004	R2JI1COQB2A0NY	0446359866	806938577	Presumed Innocent: A Novel	Books	2	16	24	N	N	Dull, Boring and Flat--Dead Between the Covers	Presumed Innocent was one of the most disappointing books I've ever read.  I picked it up with such promise; the basic plot thread seemed so good.  I thought there were just too many peripheral characters with only minor jobs  to do.  This made great sections of the book extremely confusing.  The book  just wasn't strong enough to support all those little subplots.  The  biggest disappointment, however, was the main character, Rusty.  Characters  should solve their own problems, or at least try to do so, but Rusty was so  very passive, I found myself hating him more and more with every passing  page.  He seemed not to care what happened to him and was a character who  passively accepted whatever happened while others knocked themselves out  trying to help.  When Rusty does discover the identity of the killer, he  does so by accident (deus ex machina?).  And even then, he doesn't DO  anything about it, and for the flimsiest of reasons.  In short, Rusty  doesn't act--he is acted upon.  Boy, is he acted upon!   I also had a  problem accepting Rusty's relationship with the murdered woman.  If it was  just lust--okay--I could buy that, but Turow presents the relationship as  though it were one that encompassed feelings of great love and depth--at  least on Rusty's part--something that would have been impossible, given the  circumstances.  When we do learn the identity of the real killer, it comes  as a surprise, but it's a surprise with no emotional impact since we  haven't been privy to the murderer's thoughts and feelings.  This makes the  ending fall flatter than the proverbial pancake.  All in all, Presumed  Innocent is a dull, boring, disappointing book with little or no emotional  impact.  Certainly not worth anyone's time or money.	2000-01-05
2693242:US	50718004	R1MRQ8LW717J37	0517574160	202272847	Martha Stewart's Christmas	Books	5	23	26	N	N	The Most Useful Christmas Book I've Found	I adore Martha Stewart.  She's a terrific teacher and this is absolutely the best Christmas &quot;idea&quot; book I've ever read.  I love the recipes and photos.  It's a book I will treasure and one I will use over  and over again.  Thank you, Martha!	2000-01-05
2693341:US	50718004	R2U08T9KF99A9D	0898795982	284526114	Writing the Blockbuster Novel	Books	5	51	53	N	N	The Blockbuster Author's Bible--An Absolute MUST HAVE!	If you want to write &quot;serious&quot; literature, look elsewhere.  But if you want to write a blockbuster novel, one that will top the bestseller charts and be read for decades to come, then you NEED this book!  Not a  course in literature or even in novel writing (Zuckerman presumes that you  know the basics) this book is a guide to writing the &quot;big book,&quot;  the book all agents dream of finding, the book that will earn you the  million dollar advance, be sold to the movies, etc.  While it's not  absolutely necessary to read the blockbuster novels Zuckerman cites in this  work, it does help, and some familiarity with them is certainly necessary.   Knowing example is the best teacher, Zuckerman takes us, step-by-step,  through each of the requisite elements of a blockbuster novel--elements  that each and every big book share.  The book is not for everyone, though.   If you aspire to short-story writing or the writing of small, quiet books  that may be excellent but will never &quot;take the world by storm&quot;  then you'll probably find Zuckerman &quot;too commercial.&quot;  But if  it's commercial you're looking for, this book is truly worth its weight in  gold.  Thank you Mr. Zuckerman for writing it, and a special thanks to Ken  Follett for sharing his early drafts with us.  You both did far more than  you'll ever know and we appreciate it.	2000-01-05
2693377:US	50718004	RLT6M9JEXULW8	0380018179	360362606	The Thorn Birds	Books	4	14	15	N	N	A Wonderful Family Saga	The Thorn Birds is a wonderful family saga, which is just what I think the author intended it to be.  The TV miniseries and the wonderful performances given by Richard Chamberlain, Rachel Ward and Bryan Brown have caused many  to focus on one aspect of the book and discard many others, although just  as important.  I do, however, find two problems with the book.  The final  section is a major letdown, as the character of Justine is simply not  strong enough or developed enough to evoke much empathy from readers.  The  second problem concerns the character of Father Ralph and his motivations.   The author lets us know that Ralph is power hungry regarding his status in  the Catholic Church, but she never lets us know why.  As a result, we can't  identify with his conflicts nor understand his choice of the Church over  Meggie.  Ralph comes across as far more power-mad than religious and I, for  one, wanted to know why.  I wanted to know more about him and his  background, more about what made him who he is.  Not letting us know Ralph  was McCullough's big mistake and the book suffers greatly for it.	2000-01-05
2696221:US	50718004	R1I0E1YR28ZIR2	0140250948	236604486	In the Lake of the Woods	Books	1	26	44	N	N	Terribly Disappointing	I really wanted to like this book because I've enjoyed other works by Tim O'Brien but I was terribly disappointed.  I'm not a reader who looks for an easy ending, but I do want a satisfying one, whether that ending be happy  or sad, whether it answers all questions or leaves some of them unanswered.   In the Lake of the Woods, however, exhibits no emotional power.   Essentially a character study, it fails to give us a character TO study.   Both John and his wife, Kathy, are shallow people and not developed enough  to care what happens to them or their marriage.  I don't care if Kathy met  a lover, was risky, or was killed.  Nor do I care who killed her.  Had  O'Brien done his job, I would have cared deeply.  I'm sure we're meant to  identify with John Wade's anguish and pain, but I just couldn't.  He wasn't  real for me.  I need A LITTLE MORE character development than &quot;Kath.  Oh, Kath,&quot; to feel empathy for anyone.	2000-01-03
2696881:US	50718004	R1BA9ZDL05ZCV6	0394547942	32883659	Teresa of Avila: The Progress of a Soul	Books	5	35	36	N	N	TERRIFIC!	I have just finished reading this terrific book.  I have been interested in St. Teresa and Spain since age 15 and have even visited Avila.  This is absolutely the best book about St. Teresa I have ever read.  Ms. Medwick  humanizes this heretofore unapproachable saint and we get to know her as  she no doubt really was--an extraordinary human being with faults and  foilbles like all the rest of us.  The narrative was fascinating--I felt  like I was actually in 16th century Spain with Teresa and her  contemporaries.  A treasure.  Thank you, Cathleen Medwick!	2000-01-02
2709422:US	50718004	R3MIUVL027K35Z	0393315444	263889250	Fatal Justice: Reinvestigating the MacDonald Murders	Books	1	105	135	N	N	Same Old Same Old	Fatal Justice does nothing to convince me of Jeffrey MacDonald's innocence.  In my opinion, every point raised can easily be refuted.  First, I discount EVERYTHING Helena Stoeckley ever said.  This pitiful woman had no idea where she was or what she was  doing on the night of February 17, 1970.  Additionally, many reliable  witnesses place her far away from the murder scene on the night in  question.  Helena was well-known for lying and she lived, in part, to  please Prince Edward Beasley. It has always been my thought that Beasley,  seeking his &quot;fifteen minutes of fame&quot; tried to convince Helena  that she had something to do with the murders.  <br />Ken Mica, who says he  saw a woman in a floppy hat on a street corner near the MacDonald home has  always been well-known as a MacDonald &quot;groupie.&quot; <br /> The book  tells us that drug-crazed hippies broke into the MacDonald home and  committed the murders, yet there was no sign of forced entry and no sign of  mud or grass or footprints even though the night was damp and rainy.  All  of the murder weapons came from within the MacDonald home.  It just doesn't  make sense that four people intending to commit premeditated murder would  fail to bring weapons, counting instead on finding them inside the home of  the victims.  The book talks of MacDonald being awakened by four intruders,  yet MacDonald himself says that while he was fighting the four intruders  near the sofa, he heard his wife screaming, &quot;Jeff, Jeff, why are they  doing this to me?&quot;  To my way of thinking, a normal mother whose life  is in danger, not to mention the lives of her children, would scream as  loudly as possible and perhaps even run from the home, seeking help, yet  none of the neighbors heard anything.  The  book asks us to believe Helena Stoeckley, but in ALL versions of her many confessions she names only three intruders and herself.  <br />The book states  that MacDonald gave his wife and daughters mouth-to-mouth several times and  saw bubbles coming from their chests.  The first MPs on the scene couldn't  even see the children without shining flashlights on them and MacDonald  says he did not turn the lights on or off, which would be an illogical  thing to do anyway, so how could he see something like bubbles?  MacDonald  claims he pulled a knife from his wife's chest.  No doctor, let alone a  surgeon would do this.  No fingerprints were found on any of the weapons.   I believe MacDonald wiped the weapons, not to conceal his own prints, which  would naturally be on them since they came from his home, but to conceal  the lack of prints from intruders.  The many unmatched hairs and fibers  found in the home could only show that Colette was a less-than-perfect  housekeeper.  <br />MacDonald received only very minor injuries while his wife  and daughters were the victims of &quot;overkill.&quot;  The book asks us  to believe the ringing of a phone scared the intruders off.  <br />Whether you believe MacDonald to be guilty or  innocent, everything this book presents is &quot;old stuff&quot; that has  already been litigated and will do MacDonald no good.  A book only for  those intetrested in the details of the case, as it is cumbersome and  lengthy.	1999-12-22
2713872:US	50718004	R2LT6TO6SODCZ	067976268X	765856776	Anything Considered: A Novel	Books	5	11	13	N	N	A Rollicking Good Time	I ADORE Peter Mayle.  My family and I have a house in the south of France close to Mayle's so I'm familiar with the locales in his books.  His description couldn't be better, the characters are zany, and he offers  little surprises in every plot.  Philosophical tomes can be great at times,  but when I need to relax I look for Peter Mayle.  He never offers us less  than a rollicking good time.	1999-12-19
2713951:US	50718004	RXZLAMVQE77RD	0805051309	119057404	The Debt to Pleasure: A Novel	Books	5	19	24	N	N	Delicious!	Unlike some of the other reviewers, I didn't find this book to be too wordy or difficult to read, but then I've traveled extensively in both England and France and have studied gourmet cooking, so maybe I have an  advantage in this area.  I thought Debt to Pleasure was simply delicious, a  sheer delight.  A character study par excellence.  John Lanchester reveals  his character's true personality little by little, delighting us more and  more with each new piece of information.  Sheer genius!	1999-12-19
2714080:US	50718004	R34B5YC72JUNV4	0805054383	141857175	The Bear Went Over the Mountain: A Novel (Owl Book)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A Perfect Little Gem	William Kotzwinkle has the rare and wonderful gift of seeing life exactly as it is.  This is the funniest, most lovable book I've ever read.  It's a little treasure, a true look at the publishing business in America today.   It's too bad the book has been overlooked by so many.  I'm so happy to see  that so many other Amazon customers also appreciate Kotzwinkle's genius.	1999-12-19
2714657:US	50718004	R2LZYS1NG14ULZ	0553275976	678579754	The Bonfire of the Vanities	Books	5	24	29	N	N	One of the Best Books Ever Written--Fabulous	Bonfire is my all-time favorite book and, in my opinion, Tom Wolfe is an absolute genius.  A lot of talented authors tell us very good, sometimes great, stories, but few people have the genius to cut through all the  trappings and see life exactly as it is.  Tom Wolfe exposes the excesses of  the 80s gloriously in this book.  Okay, all the characters were hateful,  but how could they have been otherwise?  The only problem I found was the  ending--I would have liked to have seen a little more resolution, but that  doesn't detract from the book's perfection.  My only real complaint is that  Wolfe never gave us anything else to equal the sheer genius of Bonfire.	1999-12-18
2714955:US	50718004	R2GX4PV8P8UAQC	0451165667	399084864	Fatal Vision	Books	5	34	41	N	N	Brilliant--I'd Give It Ten Stars If I Could	Joe McGinniss is one of the two or three greatest writers of the century.  Although many contend that McGinniss's book is &quot;biased&quot; I firmly believe he began with a &quot;blank slate&quot; and only later came to the  conclusion that MacDonald was guilty.(And to MacDonald supporters who  contend that McGinniss is &quot;persona non grata&quot; is the literary  world--check out his latest, published by Little, Brown &amp; Co.)  I  rarely read a book more than once, but I've read Fatal Vision time and time  again.  McGinniss is absolutely perfect in the way he lets MacDonald  himself create his own darkly monstrous character with his own words.  This  is the ONLY book that ever really scared me.  McGinniss's enormous talent  takes us inside the mind of a convicted murderer like no one ever has  before or since and the result is a revelation horrifying beyond belief  about the dark side of the human soul.  The only thing in the book I don't  buy is the diet pill theory, and McGinniss lets us know this is his own  theory and we are free to accept it or not.  I don't and believe instead  that MacDonald simply has a vicious temper when out of control and he  certainly was out of control on the night of February 17, 1970.  Why?   We'll never know.  McGinniss does a brilliant job of presenting the facts  surrounding the murders and subsequent trial without ever letting them  become dry and boring as many true crime stories are.  But it is the  characterization of Jeffrey MacDonald that sets this book apart from all  others.  Even if you firmly believe in MacDonald's innocence, I'd still  urge you to read &quot;Fatal Vision.&quot;  It can teach all of us more  than we'll probably ever need to know about writing.  The best true crime  book ever written and one of the top five books of the century.   Unforgettably perfect.	1999-12-18
2717667:US	50718004	R3HZB3CKATXWXP	044900483X	641199639	Children of God (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	1	16	55	N	N	As Bad as Her First Book--Zero Stars	I thought Russell's first book, &quot;The Sparrow,&quot; was the worst book I've ever read, however, so many people disagreed with me that I  decided to give her another chance and read &quot;Children of God.&quot;  I  have to admit that Children is a SLIGHTLY better book than Sparrow, but  still represents a weak, amateurish attempt that, in my opinion, should  have never been published.  First, nothing in this story is original  material nor is it old material presented in a fresh and original way.   (See &quot;A Case of Conscience&quot; for a fabulous book regarding the  same subject.)  Russell does a slightly better job of characterization in  Children.  Emilio at least speaks and appears to live on the periphery of  the human race, although Russell still fails to give us her characters's  deepest thoughts, thereby reducing them to mere cardboard cut-outs.  Sofia,  who was so hateful and self-centered in Sparrow has surprisingly emerged as  a fully-mature human being, much wiser than Sandoz could ever be.  The only  problem I find with her is that she still utters her warcry &quot;I am  Mendes,&quot; far too often.  Russell's dialogue hasn't improved and things  that are supposed to be profound often seem inane and funny.  And she still  uses words in the wrong way--a case in point being celibate--the state of  remaining unmarried, which Russell uses to mean something else altogether.   She's still painfully slow and boring.  An author should be able to tell us  what a book's about in the first paragraph, the first sentence, if  possible.  I think Russell could have improved Children greatly had she  begun the book with &quot;Emilio Sandoz had vowed never to return to  Rakhat,&quot; or something similar and then given us the necessary  backstory and exposition.  Personally, I found Gina spiteful and  self-serving and would have liked her more had I not met her personally but  only heard about her.  Writing is a gift and in my own personal opinion,  Russell wasn't given this gift.  I know many of you disagree, but there are  also others who do agree (read the reviews, I'm not the only one who gave  this book one star).  I'm sorry, but I can't give this poor author a third  chance.	1999-12-16
2719356:US	50718004	R32ZVOKSY0F2	044900483X	641199639	Children of God (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	1	7	35	N	N	As Bad as Before	I thought Russell's first attempt, &quot;The Sparrow&quot;, was the worst book I've ever read, however many of her followers attacked me for having the audacity to express my own point of view.  (Hey, don't forget, even  Charles Manson had his followers and that didn't make what he did right.)   Anyway, I decided to give Russell another chance and read &quot;Children of  God&quot;.  Now I have to ask, &quot;What's wrong with all you people?  Is  Sparrow the first book you've ever read or are you always that naive.&quot;   While Children is SLIGHTLY better than Sparrow, it still represents a weak  and amateurish attempt that should have never been published.  First,  nothing in this story is original material, nor is it it old material  expressed from a fresh point of view (see &quot;A Case of Conscience&quot;  for a fabulous book re the same concept).  Russell does a SLIGHTLY better  job of characterization in Children--Emilio at least speaks and APPEARS to  live on the periphery of the human race, but Russell still fails to give us  her characters's deepest thoughts and feelings thereby reducing them to  little more than cardboard cut-outs.  Sofia, however, who was so hateful in  Sparrow now emerges as an almost fully-mature human being, much wiser than  Sandoz could ever be, save for the fact that she still utters her war cry,  &quot;I am Mendes&quot; with every other breath.  Russell's dialogue hasn't  improved and things that are supposed to be profound often seem inane.   Russell should also check the meaning of her words before she attempts to  use them.  Celibate (from the Latin, caelebs) means a state of choosing to  live unmarried, NOT a state of living without sex.  That would be virginal.   I'd wager that many celibate persons are definitely NOT virginal.  And  Russell's still painfully slow and boring.  An author should tell us what a  book is about in the first paragraph, the first sentence, if possible.   Russell could have improved Children greatly had she begun with,  &quot;Emilio Sandoz had vowed never to return to Rakhat,&quot; and then  given us the necessary backstory and exposition.  We don't need to actually  MEET the conniving Gina.  This, however takes skill, something Russell  still lacks and no doubt always will.  Russell will never be an original or  a first-rate writer--that's a gift she simply wasn't given.  In my review  of Sparrow, I advised her to learn to write.  Now I think she should climb  down from her self-appointed throne of wisdom and return to the dusty bones  of anthro.  At least there the mindless drivel she seems so fond of was  mercifully inflicted on only a very few.	1999-12-15
2744652:US	50718004	R3KXN9MYW77F4A	0449912558	541384114	The Sparrow: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	1	20	34	N	N	Don´t buy this book unless you like throwing money away	This book was slow (1/4 backstory), disjointed, confusing and, in short, one of the worst books Ive ever read.  There was absolutely NO character development so we couldnt get to know any of the people at all.  The  result, for me, at least, was that I despised everyone in the book and  found them very unbelievable.There were many opportunities for Russell to  develop her main character, yet she failed to do so, time and time again--I  believe she doesnt know how.  My advice to readers--dont buy.  To  Russell--learn to write before attempting to do so.	1999-11-27
